Chapter It was four o'clock when the ceremony was over and the carriages began to arrive . 
There had been a crowd following all the way , owing to the exuberance of Marija Berczynskas . 
She had left the church last of all , and , desiring to arrive first at the hall , had issued orders to the coachman to drive faster . 
This was unfortunate , for already there was a throng before the door . 
Z. Graiczunas , Pasilinksminimams darzas . 
Union Headquarters that was the way the signs ran . 
There was a light of wonder in her eyes and her lids trembled , and her otherwise wan little face was flushed . 
She wore a muslin dress , conspicuously white , and a stiff little veil coming to her shoulders . 
There were five pink paper roses twisted in the veil , and eleven bright green rose leaves . 
There were new white cotton gloves upon her hands , and as she stood staring about her she twisted them together feverishly . 
It was almost too much for her you could see the pain of too great emotion in her face , and all the tremor of her form . 
of all men , to Jurgis Rudkus , he with the white flower in the buttonhole of his new black suit , he with the mighty shoulders and the giant hands . 
Gradually there was effected a separation between the spectators and the guests a separation at least sufficiently complete for working purposes . 
A charming informality was one of the characteristics of this celebration . 
The resulting medley of sound distracted no one , save possibly alone the babies , of which there were present a number equal to the total possessed by all the guests invited . 
There was no other place for the babies to be , and so part of the preparations for the evening consisted of a collection of cribs and carriages in one corner . 
In these the babies slept , three or four together , or wakened together , as the case might be . 
Those who were still older , and could reach the tables , marched about munching contentedly at meat bones and bologna sausages . 
The room is about thirty feet square , with whitewashed walls , bare save for a calendar . 
a picture of a race horse , and a family tree in a gilded frame . 
In the opposite corner are two tables , filling a third of the room and laden with dishes and cold viands , which a few of the hungrier guests are already munching . 
There is also , not six feet from your back , the bar , where you may order all you please and do not have to pay for it . 
Eiksz ! Graicziau ! screams Marija Berczynskas , and falls to work herself for there is more upon the stove inside that will be spoiled if it be not eaten . 
So , with laughter and shouts and endless badinage and merriment , the guests take their places . 
The two bridesmaids , whose insignia of office are paper wreaths , come next , and after them the rest of the guests , old and young , boys and girls . 
And the children shout and the babies yell , and every one laughs and sings and chatters while above all the deafening clamor Cousin Marija shouts orders to the musicians . 
The little person who leads this trio is an inspired man . 
His fiddle is out of tune , and there is no rosin on his bow , but still he is an inspired man the hands of the muses have been laid upon him . 
He plays like one possessed by a demon , by a whole horde of demons . 
Tamoszius Kuszleika is his name , and he has taught himself to play the violin by practicing all night , after working all day on the killing beds . 
He is in his shirt sleeves , with a vest figured with faded gold horseshoes , and a pink striped shirt , suggestive of peppermint candy . 
A pair of military trousers , light blue with a yellow stripe , serve to give that suggestion of authority proper to the leader of a band . 
He is only about five feet high , but even so these trousers are about eight inches short of the ground . 
You wonder where he can have gotten them or rather you would wonder , if the excitement of being in his presence left you time to think of such things . 
For he is an inspired man . 
Every inch of him is inspired you might almost say inspired separately . 
For they are hardly worthy of Tamoszius , the other two members of the orchestra . 
The third man is very fat , with a round , red , sentimental nose , and he plays with his eyes turned up to the sky and a look of infinite yearning . 
His nostrils are dilated and his breath comes fast his demons are driving him . 
He nods and shakes his head at his companions , jerking at them with his violin , until at last the long form of the second violinist also rises up . 
In the end all three of them begin advancing , step by step , upon the banqueters , Valentinavyczia , he cellist , bumping along with his instrument between notes . 
Finally all three are gathered at the foot of the tables , and there Tamoszius mounts upon a stool . 
Now he is in his glory , dominating the scene . 
Some of the people are eating , some are laughing and talking but you will make a great mistake if you think there is one of them who does not hear him . 
And this is their utterance merry and boisterous , or mournful and wailing , or passionate and rebellious , this music is their music , music of home . 
It stretches out its arms to them , they have only to give themselves up . 
Chicago and its saloons and its slums fade away there are green meadows and sunlit rivers , mighty forests and snowclad hills . 
They behold home landscapes and childhood scenes returning old loves and friendships begin to waken , old joys and griefs to laugh and weep . 
Some fall back and close their eyes , some beat upon the table . 
Before long it occurs to some one to demand an old wedding song , which celebrates the beauty of the bride and the joys of love . 
In the excitement of this masterpiece Tamoszius Kuszleika begins to edge in between the tables , making his way toward the head , where sits the bride . 
Little Ona is too excited to eat . 
Teta Elzbieta is all in a flutter , like a hummingbird her sisters , too , keep running up behind her , whispering , breathless . 
But Ona seems scarcely to hear them the music keeps calling , and the far off look comes back , and she sits with her hands pressed together over her heart . 
In this crisis , however , she is saved by Marija Berczynskas , whom the muses suddenly visit . 
Marija is short , but powerful in build . 
She works in a canning factory , and all day long she handles cans of beef that weigh fourteen pounds . 
She has a broad Slavic face , with prominent red cheeks . 
When she opens her mouth , it is tragical , but you cannot help thinking of a horse . 
Grandfather Anthony , Jurgis' father , is not more than sixty years of age , but you would think that he was eighty . 
He has been only six months in America , and the change has not done him good . 
Now as he rises he is seized with a coughing fit , and holds himself by his chair and turns away his wan and battered face until it passes . 
Now it is understood that he has composed an original speech of congratulation and benediction , and this is one of the events of the day . 
Even the boys , who are romping about the room , draw near and listen , and some of the women sob and wipe their aprons in their eyes . 
It is very solemn , for Antanas Rudkus has become possessed of the idea that he has not much longer to stay with his children . 
Jokubas possesses what his wife complacently describes as poetiszka vaidintuve a poetical imagination . 
Now a good many of the guests have finished , and , since there is no pretense of ceremony , the banquet begins to break up . 
Everybody is more or less restless one would guess that something is on their minds . 
Apparently nobody knows how to waltz , but that is nothing of any consequence there is music , and they dance , each as he pleases , just as before they sang . 
Most of them prefer the two step , especially the young , with whom it is the fashion . 
The older people have dances from home , strange and complicated steps which they execute with grave solemnity . 
Some do not dance anything at all , but simply hold each other's hands and allow the undisciplined joy of motion to express itself with their feet . 
All these things are carefully avoided by the young , most of whom have learned to speak English and to affect the latest style of clothing . 
The girls wear ready made dresses or shirt waists , and some of them look quite pretty . 
Some of the young men you would take to be Americans , of the type of clerks , but for the fact that they wear their hats in the room . 
Each of these younger couples affects a style of its own in dancing . 
Some hold each other tightly , some at a cautious distance . 
Some hold their hands out stiffly , some drop them loosely at their sides . 
Some dance springily , some glide softly , some move with grave dignity . 
There are boisterous couples , who tear wildly about the room , knocking every one out of their way . 
There are nervous couples , whom these frighten , and who cry , Nusfok ! Kas yra ? at them as they pass . 
Each couple is paired for the evening you will never see them change about . 
There is Alena Jasaityte , for instance , who has danced unending hours with Juozas Raczius , to whom she is engaged . 
Alena is the beauty of the evening , and she would be really beautiful if she were not so proud . 
She wears a white shirtwaist , which represents , perhaps , half a week's labor painting cans . 
She holds her skirt with her hand as she dances , with stately precision , after the manner of the grandes dames . 
Juozas is driving one of Durham's wagons , and is making big wages . 
He affects a tough aspect , wearing his hat on one side and keeping a cigarette in his mouth all the evening . 
Then there is Jadvyga Marcinkus , who is also beautiful , but humble . 
Jadvyga likewise paints cans , but then she has an invalid mother and three little sisters to support by it , and so she does not spend her wages for shirtwaists . 
Jadvyga is small and delicate , with jet black eyes and hair , the latter twisted into a little knot and tied on the top of her head . 
She is small , while he is big and powerful she nestles in his arms as if she would hide herself from view , and leans her head upon his shoulder . 
You would smile , perhaps , to see them but you would not smile if you knew all the story . 
This is the fifth year , now , that Jadvyga has been engaged to Mikolas , and her heart is sick . 
They would have been married in the beginning , only Mikolas has a father who is drunk all day , and he is the only other man in a large family . 
but for cruel accidents which have almost taken the heart out of them . 
He is a beef boner , and that is a dangerous trade , especially when you are on piecework and trying to earn a bride . 
Your hands are slippery , and your knife is slippery , and you are toiling like mad , when somebody happens to speak to you , or you strike a bone . 
Then your hand slips up on the blade , and there is a fearful gash . 
And that would not be so bad , only for the deadly contagion . 
The cut may heal , but you never can tell . 
Twice now within the last three years , Mikolas has been lying at home with blood poisoning once for three months and once for nearly seven . 
When Tamoszius and his companions stop for a rest , as perforce they must , now and then , the dancers halt where they are and wait patiently . 
They never seem to tire and there is no place for them to sit down if they did . 
It is only for a minute , anyway , for the leader starts up again , in spite of all the protests of the other two . 
This time it is another sort of a dance , a Lithuanian dance . 
Those who prefer to , go on with the two step , but the majority go through an intricate series of motions , resembling more fancy skating than a dance . 
The climax of it is a furious prestissimo , at which the couples seize hands and begin a mad whirling . 
This is quite irresistible , and every one in the room joins in , until the place becomes a maze of flying skirts and bodies quite dazzling to look upon . 
But the sight of sights at this moment is Tamoszius Kuszleika . 
The old fiddle squeaks and shrieks in protest , but Tamoszius has no mercy . 
The sweat starts out on his forehead , and he bends over like a cyclist on the last lap of a race . 
The acziavimas is a ceremony which , once begun , will continue for three or four hours , and it involves one uninterrupted dance . 
The guests form a great ring , locking hands , and , when the music starts up , begin to move around in a circle . 
In the center stands the bride , and , one by one , the men step into the enclosure and dance with her . 
Into it he drops a sum of money a dollar , or perhaps five dollars , according to his power , and his estimate of the value of the privilege . 
Most fearful they are to contemplate , the expenses of this entertainment . 
They will certainly be over two hundred dollars and maybe three hundred and three hundred dollars is more than the year's income of many a person in this room . 
Thus having known himself for the master of things , a man could go back to his toil and live upon the memory all his days . 
Endlessly the dancers swung round and round when they were dizzy they swung the other way . 
Hour after hour this had continued the darkness had fallen and the room was dim from the light of two smoky oil lamps . 
The musicians had spent all their fine frenzy by now , and played only one tune , wearily , ploddingly . 
There were twenty bars or so of it , and when they came to the end they began again . 
It was all Marija Berczynskas . 
Marija was one of those hungry souls who cling with desperation to the skirts of the retreating muse . 
All day long she had been in a state of wonderful exaltation and now it was leaving and she would not let it go . 
Each time , Marija would emit a howl and fly at them , shaking her fists in their faces , stamping upon the floor , purple and incoherent with rage . 
Szalin ! Marija would scream . 
She bore all the burden of the festivities now . 
Ona was kept up by her excitement , but all of the women and most of the men were tired the soul of Marija was alone unconquered . 
She drove on the dancers what had once been the ring had now the shape of a pear , with Marija at the stem , pulling one way and pushing the other . 
shouting , stamping , singing , a very volcano of energy . 
Passing through the doorway the door smote him full , and the shriek which followed brought the dancing to a halt . 
A trouble was come upon them . 
The veselija is a compact , a compact not expressed , but therefore only the more binding upon all . 
Every one's share was different and yet every one knew perfectly well what his share was , and strove to give a little more . 
They would come in crowds and fill themselves with a fine dinner , and then sneak off . 
One would throw another's hat out of the window , and both would go out to get it , and neither could be seen again . 
Or now and then half a dozen of them would get together and march out openly , staring at you , and making fun of you to your face . 
All these things were going on now , and the family was helpless with dismay . 
So long they had toiled , and such an outlay they had made ! Ona stood by , her eyes wide with terror . 
Those frightful bills how they had haunted her , each item gnawing at her soul all day and spoiling her rest at night . 
By him you were sure to be cheated unmercifully , and that even though you thought yourself the dearest of the hundreds of friends he had . 
He would agree to serve a certain quality at a certain price , and when the time came you and your friends would be drinking some horrible poison that could not be described . 
What made all this the more painful was that it was so hard on the few that had really done their best . 
Aniele had given the entire profit of her chickens for several months . 
Eight of them she owned , and she kept them in a little place fenced around on her backstairs . 
So she watched them every hour of the day , and had learned to see like an owl at night to watch them then . 
One of them had been stolen long ago , and not a month passed that some one did not try to steal another . 
More and more friends gathered round while the lamentation about these things was going on . 
Some drew nearer , hoping to overhear the conversation , who were themselves among the guilty and surely that was a thing to try the patience of a saint . 
Finally there came Jurgis , urged by some one , and the story was retold to him . 
Jurgis listened in silence , with his great black eyebrows knitted . 
Now and then there would come a gleam underneath them and he would glance about the room . 
Perhaps he would have liked to go at some of those fellows with his big clenched fists but then , doubtless , he realized how little good it would do him . 
So his hands relaxed and he merely said quietly It is done , and there is no use in weeping , Teta Elzbieta . 
Then his look turned toward Ona , who stood close to his side , and he saw the wide look of terror in her eyes . 
Little one , he said , in a low voice , do not worry it will not matter to us . 
We will pay them all somehow . 
That was always what Jurgis said . 
The ceremony begins again but there are few now left to dance with , and so very soon the collection is over and promiscuous dances once more begin . 
It is now after midnight , however , and things are not as they were before . 
The dancers are dull and heavy most of them have been drinking hard , and have long ago passed the stage of exhilaration . 
They dance in monotonous measure , round after round , hour after hour , with eyes fixed upon vacancy , as if they were only half conscious , in a constantly growing stupor . 
The men grasp the women very tightly , but there will be half an hour together when neither will see the other's face . 
Some couples do not care to dance , and have retired to the corners , where they sit with their arms enlaced . 
Others , who have been drinking still more , wander about the room , bumping into everything some are in groups of two or three , singing , each group its own song . 
As time goes on there is a variety of drunkenness , among the younger men especially . 
Some stagger about in each other's arms , whispering maudlin words others start quarrels upon the slightest pretext , and come to blows and have to be pulled apart . 
Now the fat policeman wakens definitely , and feels of his club to see that it is ready for business . 
The thing to do is to crack every fighting head that you see , before there are so many fighting heads that you cannot crack any of them . 
This makes it a cause for congratulation that by modern methods a very few men can do the painfully necessary work of head cracking for the whole of the cultured world . 
There is no fight that night perhaps because Jurgis , too , is watchful even more so than the policeman . 
Only once there is a tight shave and that is the fault of Marija Berczynskas . 
And Marija is just fighting drunk when there come to her ears the facts about the villains who have not paid that night . 
Fortunately , the policeman is disposed to be reasonable , and so it is not Marija who is flung out of the place . 
All this interrupts the music for not more than a minute or two . 
Then again the merciless tune begins the tune that has been played for the last half hour without one single change . 
It has put a stupor upon every one who hears it , as well as upon the men who are playing it . 
Promptly at seven o'clock this same Monday morning they will every one of them have to be in their places at Durham's or Brown's or Jones's , each in his working clothes . 
There is no exception to this rule , not even little Ona who has asked for a holiday the day after her wedding day , a holiday without pay , and been refused . 
While there are so many who are anxious to work as you wish , there is no occasion for incommoding yourself with those who must work otherwise . 
Little Ona is nearly ready to faint and half in a stupor herself , because of the heavy scent in the room . 
It does not , and finally he will wait no longer , but comes up to Ona , who turns white and trembles . 
He puts her shawl about her and then his own coat . 
They live only two blocks away , and Jurgis does not care about the carriage . 
There is almost no farewell the dancers do not notice them , and all of the children and many of the old folks have fallen asleep of sheer exhaustion . 
Dede Antanas is asleep , and so are the Szedvilases , husband and wife , the former snoring in octaves . 
There is Teta Elzbieta , and Marija , sobbing loudly and then there is only the silent night , with the stars beginning to pale a little in the east . 
Jurgis , without a word , lifts Ona in his arms , and strides out with her , and she sinks her head upon his shoulder with a moan . 
I will earn more money I will work harder . 
Chapter Jurgis talked lightly about work , because he was young . 
He had only been there four months , and he was young , and a giant besides . 
There was too much health in him . 
He could not even imagine how it would feel to be beaten . 
That is well enough for men like you , he would say , silpnas , puny fellows but my back is broad . 
Jurgis was like a boy , a boy from the country . 
He was the sort of man the bosses like to get hold of , the sort they make it a grievance they cannot get hold of . 
When he was told to go to a certain place , he would go there on the run . 
When he had nothing to do for the moment , he would stand round fidgeting , dancing , with the overflow of energy that was in him . 
If he were working in a line of men , the line always moved too slowly for him , and you could pick him out by his impatience and restlessness . 
Of this he was very proud , and it made him more disposed than ever to laugh at the pessimists . 
This is a great tract of a hundred thousand acres , which from time immemorial has been a hunting preserve of the nobility . 
There had been one son besides Jurgis , and one sister . 
The former had been drafted into the army that had been over ten years ago , but since that day nothing had ever been heard of him . 
The sister was married , and her husband had bought the place when old Antanas had decided to go with his son . 
It was nearly a year and a half ago that Jurgis had met Ona , at a horse fair a hundred miles from home . 
But Ona's father proved as a rock the girl was yet a child , and he was a rich man , and his daughter was not to be had in that way . 
So Jurgis went home with a heavy heart , and that spring and summer toiled and tried hard to forget . 
In the fall , after the harvest was over , he saw that it would not do , and tramped the full fortnight's journey that lay between him and Ona . 
There was Elzbieta Lukoszaite , Teta , or Aunt , as they called her , Ona's stepmother , and there were her six children , of all ages . 
There was also her brother Jonas , a dried up little man who had worked upon the farm . 
Ona might have married and left them , but she would not , for she loved Teta Elzbieta . 
It was Jonas who suggested that they all go to America , where a friend of his had gotten rich . 
He would work , for his part , and the women would work , and some of the children , doubtless they would live somehow . 
Jurgis , too , had heard of America . 
So America was a place of which lovers and young people dreamed . 
If one could only manage to get the price of a passage , he could count his troubles at an end . 
So in the summer time they had all set out for America . 
At the last moment there joined them Marija Berczynskas , who was a cousin of Ona's . 
Marija was an orphan , and had worked since childhood for a rich farmer of Vilna , who beat her regularly . 
There were twelve in all in the party , five adults and six children and Ona , who was a little of both . 
The law says that the rate card shall be on the door of a hotel , but it does not say that it shall be in Lithuanian . 
It was in the stockyards that Jonas' friend had gotten rich , and so to Chicago the party was bound . 
They knew that one word , Chicago and that was all they needed to know , at least , until they reached the city . 
In the morning an interpreter was found , and they were taken and put upon a car , and taught a new word stockyards . 
Their delight at discovering that they were to get out of this adventure without losing another share of their possessions it would not be possible to describe . 
They sat and stared out of the window . 
Down every side street they could see , it was the same never a hill and never a hollow , but always the same endless vista of ugly and dirty little wooden buildings . 
But after each of these interruptions , the desolate procession would begin again the procession of dreary little buildings . 
A full hour before the party reached the city they had begun to note the perplexing changes in the atmosphere . 
It grew darker all the time , and upon the earth the grass seemed to grow less green . 
Every minute , as the train sped on , the colors of things became dingier the fields were grown parched and yellow , the landscape hideous and bare . 
And along with the thickening smoke they began to notice another circumstance , a strange , pungent odor . 
Now , sitting in the trolley car , they realized that they were on their way to the home of it that they had traveled all the way from Lithuania to it . 
They were divided in their opinions about it . 
It was an elemental odor , raw and crude it was rich , almost rancid , sensual , and strong . 
There were some who drank it in as if it were an intoxicant there were others who put their handkerchiefs to their faces . 
It might have come from the center of the world , this smoke , where the fires of the ages still smolder . 
It came as if self impelled , driving all before it , a perpetual explosion . 
It was inexhaustible one stared , waiting to see it stop , but still the great streams rolled out . 
Then the party became aware of another strange thing . 
This , too , like the color , was a thing elemental it was a sound , a sound made up of ten thousand little sounds . 
You scarcely noticed it at first it sunk into your consciousness , a vague disturbance , a trouble . 
It was like the murmuring of the bees in the spring , the whisperings of the forest it suggested endless activity , the rumblings of a world in motion . 
They would have liked to follow it up , but , alas , they had no time for adventures just then . 
The policeman on the corner was beginning to watch them and so , as usual , they started up the street . 
Scarcely had they gone a block , however , before Jonas was heard to give a cry , and began pointing excitedly across the street . 
Before they could gather the meaning of his breathless ejaculations he had bounded away , and they saw him enter a shop , over which was a sign J. Szedvilas , Delicatessen . 
When he came out again it was in company with a very stout gentleman in shirt sleeves and an apron , clasping Jonas by both hands and laughing hilariously . 
Then Teta Elzbieta recollected suddenly that Szedvilas had been the name of the mythical friend who had made his fortune in America . 
Thus was the happy ending to a woeful voyage . 
The two families literally fell upon each other's necks for it had been years since Jokubas Szedvilas had met a man from his part of Lithuania . 
Before half the day they were lifelong friends . 
To this Teta Elzbieta hastened to respond that nothing could be too cheap to suit them just then for they were quite terrified over the sums they had had to expend . 
Yet , when they saw the home of the Widow Jukniene they could not but recoil , even so . 
ln all their journey they had seen nothing so bad as this . 
Poni Aniele had a four room flat in one of that wilderness of two story frame tenements that lie back of the yards . 
There were four such flats in each building , and each of the four was a boardinghouse for the occupancy of foreigners Lithuanians , Poles , Slovaks , or Bohemians . 
Some of these places were kept by private persons , some were cooperative . 
There would be an average of half a dozen boarders to each room sometimes there were thirteen or fourteen to one room , fifty or sixty to a flat . 
Each one of the occupants furnished his own accommodations that is , a mattress and some bedding . 
The mattresses would be spread upon the floor in rows and there would be nothing else in the place except a stove . 
Very frequently a lodging house keeper would rent the same beds to double shifts of men . 
Mrs. Jukniene was a wizened up little woman , with a wrinkled face . 
It was a standing jest of the boarders that Aniele cleaned house by letting the chickens loose in the rooms . 
This was July , and the fields were green . 
Such was the home to which the new arrivals were welcomed . 
Later that afternoon he and Ona went out to take a walk and look about them , to see more of this district which was to be their home . 
These bare places were grown up with dingy , yellow weeds , hiding innumerable tomato cans innumerable children played upon them , chasing one another here and there , screaming and fighting . 
Those through which Jurgis and Ona were walking resembled streets less than they did a miniature topographical map . 
In these pools the children played , and rolled about in the mud of the streets here and there one noticed them digging in it , after trophies which they had stumbled on . 
Was it not unhealthful ? the stranger would ask , and the residents would answer , Perhaps but there is no telling . 
A little way farther on , and Jurgis and Ona , staring open eyed and wondering , came to the place where this made ground was in process of making . 
Here was a great hole , perhaps two city blocks square , and with long files of garbage wagons creeping into it . 
The place had an odor for which there are no polite words and it was sprinkled over with children , who raked in it from dawn till dark . 
Apparently none of them ever went down to find out . 
Beyond this dump there stood a great brickyard , with smoking chimneys . 
A little way beyond was another great hole , which they had emptied and not yet filled up . 
This , too , seemed to the newcomers an economical arrangement for they did not read the newspapers , and their heads were not full of troublesome thoughts about germs . 
They stood there while the sun went down upon this scene , and the sky in the west turned blood red , and the tops of the houses shone like fire . 
It was a study in colors now , this smoke in the sunset light it was black and brown and gray and purple . 
All the sordid suggestions of the place were gone in the twilight it was a vision of power . 
Among these was one of the special policemen employed by Durham , whose duty it frequently was to pick out men for employment . 
Jokubas had never tried it , but he expressed a certainty that he could get some of his friends a job through this man . 
It was agreed , after consultation , that he should make the effort with old Antanas and with Jonas . 
Jurgis was confident of his ability to get work for himself , unassisted by any one . 
As we have said before , he was not mistaken in this . 
He had gone to Brown's and stood there not more than half an hour before one of the bosses noticed his form towering above the rest , and signaled to him . 
The colloquy which followed was brief and to the point Speak English ? No Lit uanian . 
Worked here before ? No 'stand . 
Shovel guts ? No 'stand . 
To morrow , seven o'clock . 
Understand ? Rytoj ! Prieszpietys ! Septyni ! Dekui , tamistai ! And that was all . 
Meantime Jokubas had been to see his friend the policeman , and received encouragement , so it was a happy party . 
There being no more to be done that day , the shop was left under the care of Lucija , and her husband sallied forth to show his friends the sights of Packingtown . 
The packers might own the land , but he claimed the landscape , and there was no one to say nay to this . 
They passed down the busy street that led to the yards . 
It was still early morning , and everything was at its high tide of activity . 
A steady stream of employees was pouring through the gate employees of the higher sort , at this hour , clerks and stenographers and such . 
For the women there were waiting big two horse wagons , which set off at a gallop as fast as they were filled . 
In the distance there was heard again the lowing of the cattle , a sound as of a far off ocean calling . 
They followed it , this time , as eager as children in sight of a circus menagerie which , indeed , the scene a good deal resembled . 
Here they stood , staring , breathless with wonder . 
And they were all filled so many cattle no one had ever dreamed existed in the world . 
The sound of them here was as of all the barnyards of the universe and as for counting them it would have taken all day simply to count the pens . 
Here and there ran long alleys , blocked at intervals by gates and Jokubas told them that the number of these gates was twenty five thousand . 
Jurgis too had a little of this sense of pride . 
They were drovers and stock raisers , who had come from far states , and brokers and commission merchants , and buyers for all the big packing houses . 
Here and there they would stop to inspect a bunch of cattle , and there would be a parley , brief and businesslike . 
Then Jokubas pointed out the place where the cattle were driven to be weighed , upon a great scale that would weigh a hundred thousand pounds at once and record it automatically . 
All night long this had been going on , and now the pens were full by tonight they would all be empty , and the same thing would be done again . 
And what will become of all these creatures ? cried Teta Elzbieta . 
There were two hundred and fifty miles of track within the yards , their guide went on to tell them . 
One stood and watched , and little by little caught the drift of the tide , as it set in the direction of the packing houses . 
There were groups of cattle being driven to the chutes , which were roadways about fifteen feet wide , raised high above the pens . 
In these chutes the stream of animals was continuous it was quite uncanny to watch them , pressing on to their fate , all unsuspicious a very river of death . 
Our friends were not poetical , and the sight suggested to them no metaphors of human destiny they thought only of the wonderful efficiency of it all . 
After they had seen enough of the pens , the party went up the street , to the mass of buildings which occupy the center of the yards . 
They make a great feature of showing strangers through the packing plants , for it is a good advertisement . 
But Ponas Jokubas whispered maliciously that the visitors did not see any more than the packers wanted them to . 
They climbed a long series of stairways outside of the building , to the top of its five or six stories . 
It was a long , narrow room , with a gallery along it for visitors . 
At the head there was a great iron wheel , about twenty feet in circumference , with rings here and there along its edge . 
He was resting for the moment , for the wheel had stopped while men were cleaning up . 
In a minute or two , however , it began slowly to revolve , and then the men upon each side of it sprang to work . 
They had chains which they fastened about the leg of the nearest hog , and the other end of the chain they hooked into one of the rings upon the wheel . 
So , as the wheel turned , a hog was suddenly jerked off his feet and borne aloft . 
At the same instant the car was assailed by a most terrifying shriek the visitors started in alarm , the women turned pale and shrank back . 
The uproar was appalling , perilous to the eardrums one feared there was too much sound for the room to hold that the walls must give way or the ceiling crack . 
Meantime , heedless of all these things , the men upon the floor were going about their work . 
It was all so very businesslike that one watched it fascinated . 
It was porkmaking by machinery , porkmaking by applied mathematics . 
Now and then a visitor wept , to be sure but this slaughtering machine ran on , visitors or no visitors . 
It was like some horrible crime committed in a dungeon , all unseen and unheeded , buried out of sight and of memory . 
One could not stand and watch very long without becoming philosophical , without beginning to deal in symbols and similes , and to hear the hog squeal of the universe . 
Some were white hogs , some were black some were brown , some were spotted some were old , some young some were long and lean , some were monstrous . 
And trusting and strong in faith he had gone about his business , the while a black shadow hung over him and a horrid Fate waited in his pathway . 
Now suddenly it had swooped upon him , and had seized him by the leg . 
One scraped the outside of a leg another scraped the inside of the same leg . 
One with a swift stroke cut the throat another with two swift strokes severed the head , which fell to the floor and vanished through a hole . 
There were men to scrape each side and men to scrape the back there were men to clean the carcass inside , to trim it and wash it . 
Before the carcass was admitted here , however , it had to pass a government inspector , who sat in the doorway and felt of the glands in the neck for tuberculosis . 
Jurgis went down the line with the rest of the visitors , staring openmouthed , lost in wonder . 
He had dressed hogs himself in the forest of Lithuania but he had never expected to live to see one hog dressed by several hundred men . 
It was like a wonderful poem to him , and he took it all in guilelessly even to the conspicuous signs demanding immaculate cleanliness of the employees . 
Jurgis was vexed when the cynical Jokubas translated these signs with sarcastic comments , offering to take them to the secret rooms where the spoiled meats went to be doctored . 
The party descended to the next floor , where the various waste materials were treated . 
In still other places men were engaged in cutting up the carcasses that had been through the chilling rooms . 
So through various yawning holes there slipped to the floor below to one room hams , to another forequarters , to another sides of pork . 
One might go down to this floor and see the pickling rooms , where the hams were put into vats , and the great smoke rooms , with their airtight iron doors . 
In other rooms they prepared salt pork there were whole cellars full of it , built up in great towers to the ceiling . 
In yet other rooms they were putting up meats in boxes and barrels , and wrapping hams and bacon in oiled paper , sealing and labeling and sewing them . 
Then the party went across the street to where they did the killing of beef where every hour they turned four or five hundred cattle into meat . 
This made a scene of intense activity , a picture of human power wonderful to watch . 
It was all in one great room , like a circus amphitheater , with a gallery for visitors running over the center . 
Along one side of the room ran a narrow gallery , a few feet from the floor into which gallery the cattle were driven by men with goads which gave them electric shocks . 
The room echoed with the thuds in quick succession , and the stamping and kicking of the steers . 
Here a man put shackles about one leg , and pressed another lever , and the body was jerked up into the air . 
There were fifteen or twenty such pens , and it was a matter of only a couple of minutes to knock fifteen or twenty cattle and roll them out . 
The manner in which they did this was something to be seen and never forgotten . 
They worked with furious intensity , literally upon the run at a pace with which there is nothing to be compared except a football game . 
The carcass hung for a few minutes to bleed there was no time lost , however , for there were several hanging in each line , and one was always ready . 
It was let down to the ground , and there came the headsman , whose task it was to sever the head , with two or three swift strokes . 
There were men to cut it , and men to split it , and men to gut it and scrape it clean inside . 
There were some with hose which threw jets of boiling water upon it , and others who removed the feet and added the final touches . 
In the end , as with the hogs , the finished beef was run into the chilling room , to hang its appointed time . 
Afterward they went outside , wandering about among the mazes of buildings in which was done the work auxiliary to this great industry . 
There was scarcely a thing needed in the business that Durham and Company did not make for themselves . 
There was a great steam power plant and an electricity plant . 
There was a barrel factory , and a boiler repair shop . 
No tiniest particle of organic matter was wasted in Durham's . 
It employed thirty thousand men it suppported directly two hundred and fifty thousand people in its neighborhood , and indirectly it supported half a million . 
Jurgis was even glad that he had not seen the place before meeting with his triumph , for he felt that the size of it would have overwhelmed him . 
He came to the door that had been pointed out to him , and there he waited for nearly two hours . 
He gave him a good cursing , but as Jurgis did not understand a word of it he did not object . 
The work which Jurgis was to do here was very simple , and it took him but a few minutes to learn it . 
It was a sweltering day in July , and the place ran with steaming hot blood one waded in it on the floor . 
The stench was almost overpowering , but to Jurgis it was nothing . 
His whole soul was dancing with joy he was at work at last ! He was at work and earning money ! All day long he was figuring to himself . 
And then there was Marija Berczynskas , who , fired with jealousy by the success of Jurgis , had set out upon her own responsibility to get a place . 
In the end , however , she had reaped her reward . 
Better luck than all this could hardly have been hoped for there was only one of them left to seek a place . 
Jurgis was determined that Teta Elzbieta should stay at home to keep house , and that Ona should help her . 
He would not have Ona working he was not that sort of a man , he said , and she was not that sort of a woman . 
It would be a strange thing if a man like him could not support the family , with the help of the board of Jonas and Marija . 
He would not even hear of letting the children go to work there were schools here in America for children , Jurgis had heard , to which they could go for nothing . 
He had come to America as full of hope as the best of them and now he was the chief problem that worried his son . 
For every one that Jurgis spoke to assured him that it was a waste of time to seek employment for the old man in Packingtown . 
Szedvilas told him that the packers did not even keep the men who had grown old in their own service to say nothing of taking on new ones . 
And not only was it the rule here , it was the rule everywhere in America , so far as he knew . 
To satisfy Jurgis he had asked the policeman , and brought back the message that the thing was not to be thought of . 
At noontime a man with whom he had been talking had read it to him and told him a little about it , with the result that Jurgis had conceived a wild idea . 
He brought out the placard , which was quite a work of art . 
It was nearly two feet long , printed on calendered paper , with a selection of colors so bright that they shone even in the moonlight . 
The center of the placard was occupied by a house , brilliantly painted , new , and dazzling . 
The roof of it was of a purple hue , and trimmed with gold the house itself was silvery , and the doors and windows red . 
For fear that the significance of all this should be lost , there was a label , in Polish , Lithuanian , and German Dom . 
Why pay rent ? the linguistic circular went on to demand . 
So it became eloquent , picturing the blissfulness of married life in a house with nothing to pay . 
It even quoted Home , Sweet Home , and made bold to translate it into Polish though for some reason it omitted the Lithuanian of this . 
Perhaps the translator found it a difficult matter to be sentimental in a language in which a sob is known as a gukcziojimas and a smile as a nusiszypsojimas . 
Over this document the family pored long , while Ona spelled out its contents . 
It appeared that this house contained four rooms , besides a basement , and that it might be bought for fifteen hundred dollars , the lot and all . 
Of this , only three hundred dollars had to be paid down , the balance being paid at the rate of twelve dollars a month . 
These were frightful sums , but then they were in America , where people talked about such without fear . 
There was a little left of the money belonging to Teta Elzbieta , and there was a little left to Jurgis . 
Marija had about fifty dollars pinned up somewhere in her stockings , and Grandfather Anthony had part of the money he had gotten for his farm . 
It was , of course , not a thing even to be talked of lightly it was a thing they would have to sift to the bottom . 
But that sort of thing would not do for Ona . 
Jurgis was at a loss to understand why , with wages as they were , so many of the people of this district should live the way they did . 
The next day Marija went to see her forelady , and was told to report the first of the week , and learn the business of can painter . 
That evening the three made their report to the men the thing was altogether as represented in the circular , or at any rate so the agent had said . 
The houses lay to the south , about a mile and a half from the yards they were wonderful bargains , the gentleman had assured them personally , and for their own good . 
So it had finally been arranged and they were to go and make an inspection the following Sunday morning . 
That was Thursday and all the rest of the week the killing gang at Brown's worked at full pressure , and Jurgis cleared a dollar seventy five every day . 
That was at the rate of ten and one half dollars a week , or forty five a month . 
Jurgis was not able to figure , except it was a very simple sum , but Ona was like lightning at such things , and she worked out the problem for the family . 
That would make ninety three dollars . 
Then Marija and Jonas were between them to take a third share in the house , which would leave only eight dollars a month for Jurgis to contribute to the payment . 
An hour before the time on Sunday morning the entire party set out . 
They had the address written on a piece of paper , which they showed to some one now and then . 
It proved to be a long mile and a half , but they walked it , and half an hour or so later the agent put in an appearance . 
He was a smooth and florid personage , elegantly dressed , and he spoke their language freely , which gave him a great advantage in dealing with them . 
He escorted them to the house , which was one of a long row of the typical frame dwellings of the neighborhood , where architecture is a luxury that is dispensed with . 
Still , it was freshly painted , and made a considerable show . 
It was all brand new , so the agent told them , but he talked so incessantly that they were quite confused , and did not have time to ask many questions . 
There were all sorts of things they had made up their minds to inquire about , but when the time came , they either forgot them or lacked the courage . 
The other houses in the row did not seem to be new , and few of them seemed to be occupied . 
When they ventured to hint at this , the agent's reply was that the purchasers would be moving in shortly . 
The house had a basement , about two feet below the street line , and a single story , about six feet above it , reached by a flight of steps . 
In addition there was an attic , made by the peak of the roof , and having one small window in each end . 
The house inside contained four rooms , plastered white the basement was but a frame , the walls being unplastered and the floor not laid . 
The agent explained that the houses were built that way , as the purchasers generally preferred to finish the basements to suit their own taste . 
All of this , however , did not chill their ardor as much as might have been expected , because of the volubility of the agent . 
He showed them the sink in the kitchen , with running water and a faucet , something which Teta Elzbieta had never in her wildest dreams hoped to possess . 
After a discovery such as that it would have seemed ungrateful to find any fault , and so they tried to shut their eyes to other defects . 
And so they went home again , and all day and evening there was figuring and debating . 
It was an agony to them to have to make up their minds in a matter such as this . 
Once , in the evening , when they were all in harmony , and the house was as good as bought , Szedvilas came in and upset them again . 
Szedvilas had no use for property owning . 
He told them cruel stories of people who had been done to death in this buying a home swindle . 
And pay rent ? asked Jurgis . 
Ah , yes , to be sure , the other answered , that too was robbery . 
It was all robbery , for a poor man . 
Which , of course , reopened the subject ! The controlling factor was that they could not stay where they were they had to go somewhere . 
And when they gave up the house plan and decided to rent , the prospect of paying out nine dollars a month forever they found just as hard to face . 
All day and all night for nearly a whole week they wrestled with the problem , and then in the end Jurgis took the responsibility . 
It was the kind of thing the man of the family had to decide and carry through , he told himself . 
Others might have failed at it , but he was not the failing kind he would show them how to do it . 
He would work all day , and all night , too , if need be he would never rest until the house was paid for and his people had a home . 
So he told them , and so in the end the decision was made . 
The one they had seen held the sway in their thoughts whenever they thought of themselves in a house , it was this house that they thought of . 
And so they went and told the agent that they were ready to make the agreement . 
They drew a deep breath when he told them that they were still in time . 
They were to come on the morrow , and he would have the papers all drawn up . 
So there was nothing to be done but to trust it to the women , with Szedvilas , who promised to go with them . 
Early in the morning they sallied forth . 
For a horrible suspicion had begun dawning in his mind he knitted his brows more and more as he read . 
The agent was most polite , and explained that that was the usual formula that it was always arranged that the property should be merely rented . 
They would not own the home at all , then , for nearly nine years ! The agent , with infinite patience , began to explain again but no explanation would do now . 
Elzbieta had firmly fixed in her mind the last solemn warning of Jurgis If there is anything wrong , do not give him the money , but go out and get a lawyer . 
They went a long way , on purpose to find a man who would not be a confederate . 
And it was for the sale of such and such a house the house and lot and everything ? Yes , and the lawyer showed him where that was all written . 
And so Szedvilas went on , asking one trembling question after another , while the eyes of the women folks were fixed upon him in mute agony . 
They could not understand what he was saying , but they knew that upon it their fate depended . 
And she brought it out and unwrapped it before the men . 
All of this Ona sat watching , from a corner of the room , twisting her hands together , meantime , in a fever of fright . 
Then he gave a sigh of satisfaction , and rose and shook hands with them all , still as smooth and polite as at the beginning . 
They were so weak from fright that they could not walk , but had to sit down on the way . 
So they went home , with a deadly terror gnawing at their souls and that evening Jurgis came home and heard their story , and that was the end . 
Jurgis was sure that they had been swindled , and were ruined and he tore his hair and cursed like a madman , swearing that he would kill the agent that very night . 
In the end he seized the paper and rushed out of the house , and all the way across the yards to Halsted Street . 
He dragged Szedvilas out from his supper , and together they rushed to consult another lawyer . 
When they entered his office the lawyer sprang up , for Jurgis looked like a crazy person , with flying hair and bloodshot eyes . 
His companion explained the situation , and the lawyer took the paper and began to read it , while Jurgis stood clutching the desk with knotted hands , trembling in every nerve . 
He saw the lawyer look up and laugh , and he gave a gasp the man said something to Szedvilas , and Jurgis turned upon his friend , his heart almost stopping . 
He says it is all right , said Szedvilas . 
All right ! Yes , he says it is just as it should be . 
And Jurgis , in his relief , sank down into a chair . 
Are you sure of it ? he gasped , and made Szedvilas translate question after question . 
He could not hear it often enough he could not ask with enough variations . 
Yes , they had bought the house , they had really bought it . 
It belonged to them , they had only to pay the money and it would be all right . 
Then Jurgis covered his face with his hands , for there were tears in his eyes , and he felt like a fool . 
But he had had such a horrible fright strong man as he was , it left him almost too weak to stand up . 
So long as they paid , however , they had nothing to fear , the house was all theirs . 
Jurgis was so grateful that he paid the half dollar the lawyer asked without winking an eyelash , and then rushed home to tell the news to the family . 
He found Ona in a faint and the babies screaming , and the whole house in an uproar for it had been believed by all that he had gone to murder the agent . 
Chapter They had bought their home . 
It was hard for them to realize that the wonderful house was theirs to move into whenever they chose . 
They spent all their time thinking about it , and what they were going to put into it . 
As their week with Aniele was up in three days , they lost no time in getting ready . 
They had to make some shift to furnish it , and every instant of their leisure was given to discussing this . 
It was quite touching , the zeal of people to see that his health and happiness were provided for . 
Did the person wish to smoke ? There was a little discourse about cigars , showing him exactly why the Thomas Jefferson Five cent Perfecto was the only cigar worthy of the name . 
In Packingtown the advertisements had a style all of their own , adapted to the peculiar population . 
One would be tenderly solicitous . 
Is your wife pale ? it would inquire . 
Is she discouraged , does she drag herself about the house and find fault with everything ? Why do you not tell her to try Dr . 
Lanahan's Life Preservers ? Another would be jocular in tone , slapping you on the back , so to speak . 
Don't be a chump ! it would exclaim . 
Go and get the Goliath Bunion Cure . 
Get a move on you ! would chime in another . 
It's easy , if you wear the Eureka Two fifty Shoe . 
Among these importunate signs was one that had caught the attention of the family by its pictures . 
Feather your nest , it ran and went on to say that it could furnish all the necessary feathers for a four room nest for the ludicrously small sum of seventy five dollars . 
The particularly important thing about this offer was that only a small part of the money need be had at once the rest one might pay a few dollars every month . 
One chair squeaked with his great weight , and they screamed with fright , and woke the baby and brought everybody running . 
Altogether it was a great day and tired as they were , Jurgis and Ona sat up late , contented simply to hold each other and gaze in rapture about the room . 
They had no money to spend for the pleasure of spending , but there were a few absolutely necessary things , and the buying of these was a perpetual adventure for Ona . 
Finally , after every one had had a try , the nails would be driven , and something hung up . 
Jurgis had come home with a big packing box on his head , and he sent Jonas to get another that he had bought . 
He meant to take one side out of these tomorrow , and put shelves in them , and make them into bureaus and places to keep things for the bedrooms . 
The nest which had been advertised had not included feathers for quite so many birds as there were in this family . 
They had , of course , put their dining table in the kitchen , and the dining room was used as the bedroom of Teta Elzbieta and five of her children . 
She and the two youngest slept in the only bed , and the other three had a mattress on the floor . 
Even so , however , they slept soundly it was necessary for Teta Elzbieta to pound more than once on the at a quarter past five every morning . 
Then he saw things in a different light , he got at the inside of them . 
You might easily pick out these pacemakers , for they worked under the eye of the bosses , and they worked like men possessed . 
This was called speeding up the gang , and if any man could not keep up with the pace , there were hundreds outside begging to try . 
Yet Jurgis did not mind it he rather enjoyed it . 
It saved him the necessity of flinging his arms about and fidgeting as he did in most work . 
He would laugh to himself as he ran down the line , darting a glance now and then at the man ahead of him . 
For most of the men here took a fearfully different view of the thing . 
He was quite dismayed when he first began to find it out that most of the men hated their work . 
It seemed strange , it was even terrible , when you came to find out the universality of the sentiment but it was certainly the fact they hated their work . 
They hated the bosses and they hated the owners they hated the whole place , the whole neighborhood even the whole city , with an all inclusive hatred , bitter and fierce . 
Women and little children would fall to cursing about it it was rotten , rotten as hell everything was rotten . 
When Jurgis would ask them what they meant , they would begin to get suspicious , and content themselves with saying , Never mind , you stay here and see for yourself . 
One of the first problems that Jurgis ran upon was that of the unions . 
He had had no experience with unions , and he had to have it explained to him that the men were banded together for the purpose of fighting for their rights . 
Generally , however , this harmless question would only make his fellow workingmen lose their tempers and call him a fool . 
In the end Jurgis got into a fine rage , and made it sufficiently plain that it would take more than one Irishman to scare him into a union . 
If they couldn't do it , let them go somewhere else . 
And now here he was , worn out in soul and body , and with no more place in the world than a sick dog . 
So , after all , there was a crack in the fine structure of Jurgis' faith in things as they are . 
The crack was wide while Dede Antanas was hunting a job and it was yet wider when he finally got it . 
Was he a boss ? Antanas had asked to which the man had replied that that was nobody's business , but that he could do what he said . 
Jurgis had made some friends by this time , and he sought one of them and asked what this meant . 
They were common enough , he said , such cases of petty graft . 
It was simply some boss who proposed to add a little to his income . 
Warming to the subject , Tamoszius went on to explain the situation . 
And worse than there being no decency , there was not even any honesty . 
You could lay that down for a rule if you met a man who was rising in Packingtown , you met a knave . 
Jurgis went home with his head buzzing . 
Yet he could not bring himself to believe such things no , it could not be so . 
Tamoszius was simply another of the grumblers . 
Then , too , he was a puny little chap and so he had been left behind in the race , and that was why he was sore . 
And yet so many strange things kept coming to Jurgis' notice every day ! He tried to persuade his father to have nothing to do with the offer . 
But old Antanas had begged until he was worn out , and all his courage was gone he wanted a job , any sort of a job . 
He was a squeedgie man his job was to go about all day with a long handled mop , swabbing up the floor . 
Except that it was damp and dark , it was not an unpleasant job , in summer . 
For they had set him to cleaning out the traps and the family sat round and listened in wonder while he told them what that meant . 
When they had speared out all they could reach , they emptied the vat on the floor , and then with shovels scraped up the balance and dumped it into the truck . 
Marija was working for one of the independent packers , and was quite beside herself and outrageous with triumph over the sums of money she was making as a painter of cans . 
She had taken the place of an Irishwoman who had been working in that factory ever since any one could remember . 
For over fifteen years , so she declared . 
The forelady had to come up to a certain standard herself , and could not stop for sick people , Jadvyga explained . 
Jadvyga did not know what had become of the poor creature she would have gone to see her , but had been sick herself . 
She had pains in her back all the time , Jadvyga explained , and feared that she had womb trouble . 
It was not fit work for a woman , handling fourteen pound cans all day . 
It was a striking circumstance that Jonas , too , had gotten his job by the misfortune of some other person . 
Jonas pushed a truck loaded with hams from the smoke rooms on to an elevator , and thence to the packing rooms . 
The trucks were all of iron , and heavy , and they put about threescore hams on each of them , a load of more than a quarter of a ton . 
Therefore these trucks went for the most part on the run and the predecessor of Jonas had been jammed against the wall by one and crushed in a horrible and nameless manner . 
All of these were sinister incidents but they were trifles compared to what Jurgis saw with his own eyes before long . 
Any man who knows anything about butchering knows that the flesh of a cow that is about to calve , or has just calved , is not fit for food . 
It was late , almost dark , and the government inspectors had all gone , and there were only a dozen or two of men on the floor . 
That day they had killed about four thousand cattle , and these cattle had come in freight trains from far states , and some of them had got hurt . 
All his thoughts were there he accepted the family because it was a part of Ona . 
And he was interested in the house because it was to be Ona's home . 
Even the tricks and cruelties he saw at Durham's had little meaning for him just then , save as they might happen to affect his future with Ona . 
To Teta Elzbieta especially the very suggestion was an affliction . 
What ! she would cry . 
Even so , however , she knew what was decent , and clung to her traditions with desperation . 
It was in vain for them to say that they had so few friends they were bound to have friends in time , and then the friends would talk about it . 
They must not give up what was right for a little money if they did , the money would never do them any good , they could depend upon that . 
It had cost fifty cents but Elzbieta had a feeling that money spent for such things was not to be counted too closely , it would come back in hidden ways . 
The piece was beautiful on the parlor mantel , and one could not have a home without some sort of ornament . 
The cost of the wedding feast would , of course , be returned to them but the problem was to raise it even temporarily . 
They had been in the neighborhood so short a time that they could not get much credit , and there was no one except Szedvilas from whom they could borrow even a little . 
Evening after evening Jurgis and Ona would sit and figure the expenses , calculating the term of their separation . 
So Ona began thinking of seeking employment herself , saying that if she had even ordinarily good luck , she might be able to take two months off the time . 
She was a wrinkled up and wizened personage she must have been eighty and as she mumbled the grim story through her toothless gums , she seemed a very old witch to them . 
The house was one of a whole row that was built by a company which existed to make money by swindling poor people . 
The family had paid fifteen hundred dollars for it , and it had not cost the builders five hundred , when it was new . 
Grandmother Majauszkiene knew that because her son belonged to a political organization with a contractor who put up exactly such houses . 
They used the very flimsiest and cheapest material they built the houses a dozen at a time , and they cared about nothing at all except the outside shine . 
Grandmother Majauszkiene saw that her friends were puzzled at this remark they did not quite see how paying for the house was fooling the company . 
Evidently they were very inexperienced . 
Cheap as the houses were , they were sold with the idea that the people who bought them would not be able to pay for them . 
They did it how often no one could say , but certainly more than half of the time . 
She would tell them a little about it . 
The first family had been Germans . 
The families had all been of different nationalities there had been a representative of several races that had displaced each other in the stockyards . 
Afterward , as cheaper labor had come , these Germans had moved away . 
The next were the Irish there had been six or eight years when Packingtown had been a regular Irish city . 
The Bohemians had come then , and after them the Poles . 
The people had come in hordes and old Durham had squeezed them tighter and tighter , speeding them up and grinding them to pieces and sending for new ones . 
The Poles , who had come by tens of thousands , had been driven to the wall by the Lithuanians , and now the Lithuanians were giving way to the Slovaks . 
Who there was poorer and more miserable than the Slovaks , Grandmother Majauszkiene had no idea , but the packers would find them , never fear . 
They were like rats in a trap , that was the truth and more of them were piling in every day . 
By and by they would have their revenge , though , for the thing was getting beyond human endurance , and the people would rise and murder the packers . 
They called her back to the story of the house . 
The German family had been a good sort . 
But he had been killed in an elevator accident in Durham's . 
Then there had come the Irish , and there had been lots of them , too the husband drank and beat the children the neighbors could hear them shrieking any night . 
He had been in jail only three days for it , and had come out laughing , and had not even lost his place in the packing house . 
That was another thing , Grandmother Majauszkiene interrupted herself this house was unlucky . 
Every family that lived in it , some one was sure to get consumption . 
There were dozens of houses that way in Packingtown . 
Sometimes there would be a particular room that you could point out if anybody slept in that room he was just as good as dead . 
In those days there had been no law about the age of children the packers had worked all but the babies . 
At this remark the family looked puzzled , and Grandmother Majauszkiene again had to make an explanation that it was against the law for children to work before they were sixteen . 
What was the sense of that ? they asked . 
They had been thinking of letting little Stanislovas go to work . 
Well , there was no need to worry , Grandmother Majauszkiene said the law made no difference except that it forced people to lie about the ages of their children . 
To come back to the house again , it was the woman of the next family that had died . 
That was after they had been there nearly four years , and this woman had had twins regularly every year and there had been more than you could count when they moved in . 
At the end there were three days that they were alone , before it was found out that the father was dead . 
He was a floorsman at Jones's , and a wounded steer had broken loose and mashed him against a pillar . 
Then the children had been taken away , and the company had sold the house that very same week to a party of emigrants . 
So this grim old women went on with her tale of horrors . 
How much of it was exaggeration who could tell ? It was only too plausible . 
There was that about consumption , for instance . 
They knew nothing about consumption whatever , except that it made people cough and for two weeks they had been worrying about a coughing spell of Antanas . 
It seemed to shake him all over , and it never stopped you could see a red stain wherever he had spit upon the floor . 
And yet all these things were as nothing to what came a little later . 
Then they stared at her . 
Interest on the money you still owe , she answered . 
But we don't have to pay any interest ! they exclaimed , three or four at once . 
We only have to pay twelve dollars each month . 
And for this she laughed at them . 
You are like all the rest , she said they trick you and eat you alive . 
They never sell the houses without interest . 
Get your deed , and see . 
Then , with a horrible sinking of the heart , Teta Elzbieta unlocked her bureau and brought out the paper that had already caused them so many agonies . 
Now they sat round , scarcely breathing , while the old lady , who could read English , ran over it . 
Yes , she said , finally , here it is , of course 'With interest thereon monthly , at the rate of seven per cent per annum . 
And there followed a dead silence . 
What does that mean ? asked Jurgis finally , almost in a whisper . 
That means , replied the other , that you have to pay them seven dollars next month , as well as the twelve dollars . 
Then again there was not a sound . 
It was sickening , like a nightmare , in which suddenly something gives way beneath you , and you feel yourself sinking , sinking , down into bottomless abysses . 
As if in a flash of lightning they saw themselves victims of a relentless fate , cornered , trapped , in the grip of destruction . 
All the fair structure of their hopes came crashing about their ears . 
And all the time the old woman was going on talking . 
They wished that she would be still her voice sounded like the croaking of some dismal raven . 
Jurgis sat with his hands clenched and beads of perspiration on his forehead , and there was a great lump in Ona's throat , choking her . 
There sat Grandmother Majauszkiene , unrelenting , typifying fate . 
No , of course it was not fair , but then fairness had nothing to do with it . 
And of course they had not known it . 
They had not been intended to know it . 
But it was in the deed , and that was all that was necessary , as they would find when the time came . 
Somehow or other they got rid of their guest , and then they passed a night of lamentation . 
The children woke up and found out that something was wrong , and they wailed and would not be comforted . 
Yes , he told them , when he came , it was quite true that they would have to pay interest . 
And then Teta Elzbieta broke forth into protestations and reproaches , so that the people outside stopped and peered in at the window . 
The agent was as bland as ever . 
He was deeply pained , he said . 
He had not told them , simply because he had supposed they would understand that they had to pay interest upon their debt , as a matter of course . 
So they came away , and Ona went down to the yards , and at noontime saw Jurgis and told him . 
Jurgis took it stolidly he had made up his mind to it by this time . 
It was part of fate they would manage it somehow he made his usual answer , I will work harder . 
It would upset their plans for a time and it would perhaps be necessary for Ona to get work after all . 
Then Ona added that Teta Elzbieta had decided that little Stanislovas would have to work too . 
It was not fair to let Jurgis and her support the family the family would have to help as it could . 
Previously Jurgis had scouted this idea , but now knit his brows and nodded his head slowly yes , perhaps it would be best they would all have to make some sacrifices now . 
Jurgis was not in the least surprised at this now he merely asked what the wages of the place would be . 
That was a bid , so Marija reported , after consulting her friend and then there was an anxious conference at home . 
So in the end Ona , with a ten dollar bill burning a hole in her palm , had another interview with the forelady . 
The lard was finished on the floor above , and it came in little jets , like beautiful , wriggling , snow white snakes of unpleasant odor . 
Then the man said How old ? and Stanislovas answered , Sixtin . 
In summer the stench of the warm lard would be nauseating , and in winter the cans would all but freeze to his naked little fingers in the unheated cellar . 
Chapter All summer long the family toiled , and in the fall they had money enough for Jurgis and Ona to be married according to home traditions of decency . 
In the latter part of November they hired a hall , and invited all their new acquaintances , who came and left them over a hundred dollars in debt . 
It was a bitter and cruel experience , and it plunged them into an agony of despair . 
They all had to go , even little Stanislovas , who was ill from overindulgence in sausages and sarsaparilla . 
It was fully a week before they were all normal again , and meantime , with whining children and cross adults , the house was not a pleasant place to live in . 
Jurgis lost his temper very little , however , all things considered . 
It was because of Ona the least glance at her was always enough to make him control himself . 
She was too good for him , he told himself , and he was afraid , because she was his . 
It was true that more things were going on at this time in the mind of Jurgis than ever had in all his life before . 
He had to protect her , to do battle for her against the horror he saw about them . 
He had learned the ways of things about him now . 
It was a war of each against all , and the devil take the hindmost . 
You did not give feasts to other people , you waited for them to give feasts to you . 
The store keepers plastered up their windows with all sorts of lies to entice you the very fences by the wayside , the lampposts and telegraph poles , were pasted over with lies . 
The great corporation which employed you lied to you , and lied to the whole country from top to bottom it was nothing but one gigantic lie . 
Ona was a working girl , and did not own waterproofs and such things , and so Jurgis took her and put her on the streetcar . 
Now it chanced that this car line was owned by gentlemen who were trying to make money . 
When at last the time came for her to get out , she asked for the transfer , and was refused . 
Not knowing what to make of this , she began to argue with the conductor , in a language of which he did not understand a word . 
After warning her several times , he pulled the bell and the car went on at which Ona burst into tears . 
And so all day long she sat shivering , and came home at night with her teeth chattering and pains in her head and back . 
For two weeks afterward she suffered cruelly and yet every day she had to drag herself to her work . 
The forewoman was especially severe with Ona , because she believed that she was obstinate on account of having been refused a holiday the day after her wedding . 
Ona had an idea that her forelady did not like to have her girls marry perhaps because she was old and ugly and unmarried herself . 
There were many such dangers , in which the odds were all against them . 
All the clothing that was to be had in the stores was made of cotton and shoddy , which is made by tearing old clothes to pieces and weaving the fiber again . 
If they paid higher prices , they might get frills and fanciness , or be cheated but genuine quality they could not obtain for love nor money . 
Then there was old Antanas . 
So the old man's cough grew every day worse , until there came a time when it hardly ever stopped , and he had become a nuisance about the place . 
Then sores began to break out on his feet , and grow worse and worse . 
Every one felt it , sooner or later , and then it was all up with him , at least for that sort of work . 
The sores would never heal in the end his toes would drop off , if he did not quit . 
Yet old Antanas would not quit he saw the suffering of his family , and he remembered what it had cost him to get a job . 
They carried him to a dry place and laid him on the floor , and that night two of the men helped him home . 
The poor old man was put to bed , and though he tried it every morning until the end , he never could get up again . 
He would lie there and cough and cough , day and night , wasting away to a mere skeleton . 
There came a time when there was so little flesh on him that the bones began to poke through which was a horrible thing to see or even to think of . 
And one night he had a choking fit , and a little river of blood came out of his mouth . 
The family , wild with terror , sent for a doctor , and paid half a dollar to be told that there was nothing to be done . 
The company had sent word to him that they would keep it for him or rather Jurgis had bribed one of the men to come one Sunday afternoon and say they had . 
Dede Antanas continued to believe it , while three more hemorrhages came and then at last one morning they found him stiff and cold . 
Now the dreadful winter was come upon them . 
Just so it was in Packingtown the whole district braced itself for the struggle that was an agony , and those whose time was come died off in hordes . 
All the year round they had been serving as cogs in the great packing machine and now was the time for the renovating of it , and the replacing of damaged parts . 
There came pneumonia and grippe , stalking among them , seeking for weakened constitutions there was the annual harvest of those whom tuberculosis had been dragging down . 
There came cruel , cold , and biting winds , and blizzards of snow , all testing relentlessly for failing muscles and impoverished blood . 
The new hands were here by the thousands . 
Blizzards and cold made no difference to them , they were always on hand they were on hand two hours before the sun rose , an hour before the work began . 
Sometimes their faces froze , sometimes their feet and their hands sometimes they froze all together but still they came , for they had no other place to go . 
On the morrow , before daybreak , there were three thousand at Durham's , and the police reserves had to be sent for to quell the riot . 
Then Durham's bosses picked out twenty of the biggest the two hundred proved to have been a printer's error . 
Four or five miles to the eastward lay the lake , and over this the bitter winds came raging . 
Sometimes the thermometer would fall to ten or twenty degrees below zero at night , and in the morning the streets would be piled with snowdrifts up to the first floor windows . 
And if it was bad for the men , one may imagine how the women and children fared . 
The children would come to the yards with great shawls about their ears , and so tied up that you could hardly find them and still there would be accidents . 
One bitter morning in February the little boy who worked at the lard machine with Stanislovas came about an hour late , and screaming with pain . 
They unwrapped him , and a man began vigorously rubbing his ears and as they were frozen stiff , it took only two or three rubs to break them short off . 
As a result of this , little Stanislovas conceived a terror of the cold that was almost a mania . 
Every morning , when it came time to start for the yards , he would begin to cry and protest . 
There was no heat upon the killing beds the men might exactly as well have worked out of doors all winter . 
And yet all this inconvenience they might have put up with , if only it had not been for one thing if only there had been some place where they might eat . 
One might walk among these and take his choice Hot pea soup and boiled cabbage today . 
Bean soup and stewed lamb . 
All of these things were printed in many languages , as were also the names of the resorts , which were infinite in their variety and appeal . 
There was the Home Circle and the Cosey Corner there were Firesides and Hearthstones and Pleasure Palaces and Wonderlands and Dream Castles and Love's Delights . 
There was only one condition attached , you must drink . 
This did not always work out in practice , however , for there was pretty sure to be a friend who would treat you , and then you would have to treat him . 
Then some one else would come in and , anyhow , a few drinks were good for a man who worked hard . 
On the way home , however , the shivering was apt to come on him again and so he would have to stop once or twice to warm up against the cruel cold . 
As there were hot things to eat in this saloon too , he might get home late to his supper , or he might not get home at all . 
Then at night he would go straight home , helping Ona and Stanislovas , or often putting the former on a car . 
And when he got home perhaps he would have to trudge several blocks , and come staggering back through the snowdrifts with a bag of coal upon his shoulder . 
Home was not a very attractive place at least not this winter . 
They had only been able to buy one stove , and this was a small one , and proved not big enough to warm even the kitchen in the bitterest weather . 
This made it hard for Teta Elzbieta all day , and for the children when they could not get to school . 
Then they would have some frightful experiences with the cold . 
The outside ones would be shivering and sobbing , crawling over the others and trying to get down into the center , and causing a fight . 
They would waken in the midnight hours , when everything was black perhaps they would hear it yelling outside , or perhaps there would be deathlike stillness and that would be worse yet . 
It was cruel iron hard and hour after hour they would cringe in its grasp , alone , alone . 
There would be no one to hear them if they cried out there would be no help , no mercy . 
Chapter Yet even by this deadly winter the germ of hope was not to be kept from sprouting in their hearts . 
It was just at this time that the great adventure befell Marija . 
The victim was Tamoszius Kuszleika , who played the violin . 
Everybody laughed at them , for Tamoszius was petite and frail , and Marija could have picked him up and carried him off under one arm . 
But perhaps that was why she fascinated him the sheer volume of Marija's energy was overwhelming . 
And then Tamoszius' face would light up and he would get out his fiddle , tuck it under his chin , and play . 
There was no resisting the music of Tamoszius , however even the children would sit awed and wondering , and the tears would run down Teta Elzbieta's cheeks . 
A wonderful privilege it was to be thus admitted into the soul of a man of genius , to be allowed to share the ecstasies and the agonies of his inmost life . 
Then there were other benefits accruing to Marija from this friendship benefits of a more substantial nature . 
In any case Marija would bring back a huge pocketful of cakes and sandwiches for the children , and stories of all the good things she herself had managed to consume . 
It was a great help to a person who had to toil all the week to be able to look forward to some such relaxation as this on Saturday nights . 
Some people would have scorned this talk as gossip but then one has to talk about what one knows . 
She told them all about it the next day , and fairly cried with happiness , for she said that Tamoszius was a lovely man . 
They were planning to be married in the spring , and have the garret of the house fixed up , and live there . 
Marija felt , so to speak , that she had her hand on the throttle , and the neighborhood was vocal with her rejoicings . 
Yet her friends would shake their heads and tell her to go slow one could not count upon such good fortune forever there were accidents that always happened . 
Sometimes the factory would start up on half time after a while , but there was no telling it had been known to stay closed until way into the summer . 
And they had turned off three quarters of these men , which was a still worse sign , since it meant that there were no orders to be filled . 
As nearly all the canning establishments were shut down , and all the girls hunting work , it will be readily understood that Marija did not find any . 
The big packers did not turn their hands off and close down , like the canning factories but they began to run for shorter and shorter hours . 
There were many days when the total was less than half an hour , and others when there was none at all . 
The men were at the mercy of the cattle . 
Perhaps the buyers would be holding off for better prices if they could scare the shippers into thinking that they meant to buy nothing that day , they could get their own terms . 
And so on Christmas Eve Jurgis worked till nearly one o'clock in the morning , and on Christmas Day he was on the killing bed at seven o'clock . 
All this was bad and yet it was not the worst . 
For after all the hard work a man did , he was paid for only part of it . 
And on the other hand if he came ahead of time he got no pay for that though often the bosses would start up the gang ten or fifteen minutes before the whistle . 
And this same custom they carried over to the end of the day they did not pay for any fraction of an hour for broken time . 
A man might work full fifty minutes , but if there was no work to fill out the hour , there was no pay for him . 
He felt like fighting now himself and when the Irish delegate of the butcher helpers' union came to him a second time , he received him in a far different spirit . 
Before another month was by , all the working members of his family had union cards , and wore their union buttons conspicuously and with pride . 
For fully a week they were quite blissfully happy , thinking that belonging to a union meant an end to all their troubles . 
But only ten days after she had joined , Marija's canning factory closed down , and that blow quite staggered them . 
They could not understand why the union had not prevented it , and the very first time she attended a meeting Marija got up and made a speech about it . 
Jurgis too had an adventure the first time he attended a union meeting , but it was not of his own seeking . 
Jurgis had gone with the desire to get into an inconspicuous corner and see what was done but this attitude of silent and open eyed attention had marked him out for a victim . 
Tommy Finnegan was a little Irishman , with big staring eyes and a wild aspect , a hoister by trade , and badly cracked . 
Somewhere back in the far distant past Tommy Finnegan had had a strange experience , and the burden of it rested upon him . 
All the balance of his life he had done nothing but try to make it understood . 
When he talked he caught his victim by the buttonhole , and his face kept coming closer and closer which was trying , because his teeth were so bad . 
Jurgis did not mind that , only he was frightened . 
There were assuredly wonderful mysteries about the developing of these things and then , becoming confidential , Mr. Finnegan proceeded to tell of some discoveries of his own . 
If ye have iver had onything to do wid shperrits , said he , and looked inquiringly at Jurgis , who kept shaking his head . 
He never missed a meeting , however . 
He had picked up a few words of English by this time , and friends would help him to understand . 
Since the time of his disillusionment , Jurgis had sworn to trust no man , except in his own family but here he discovered that he had brothers in affliction , and allies . 
Their one chance for life was in union , and so the struggle became a kind of crusade . 
There were many nonunion men among the Lithuanians , and with these he would labor and wrestle in prayer , trying to show them the right . 
Chapter One of the first consequences of the discovery of the union was that Jurgis became desirous of learning English . 
They were teaching him both to read and to speak English and they would have taught him other things , if only he had had a little time . 
Also the union made another great difference with him it made him begin to pay attention to the country . 
It was the beginning of democracy with him . 
It was a little state , the union , a miniature republic its affairs were every man's affairs , and every man had a real say about them . 
In other words , in the union Jurgis learned to talk politics . 
In the place where he had come from there had not been any politics in Russia one thought of the government as an affliction like the lightning and the hail . 
Duck , little brother , duck , the wise old peasants would whisper everything passes away . 
And when Jurgis had first come to America he had supposed that it was the same . 
Jurgis did not know what that meant , but the man explained the advantages . 
Jurgis was naturally glad to accept , and so the night watchman said a few words to the boss , and he was excused for the rest of the day . 
It was a fine chance to see the sights of the city , and the party had a merry time , with plenty of beer handed up from inside . 
A month or two later Jurgis had another interview with this same man , who told him where to go to register . 
Now and then , the election was very close , and that was the time the poor man came in . 
In the stockyards this was only in national and state elections , for in local elections the Democratic Party always carried everything . 
The ruler of the district was therefore the Democratic boss , a little Irishman named Mike Scully . 
He was an enormously rich man he had a hand in all the big graft in the neighborhood . 
It was Scully , for instance , who owned that dump which Jurgis and Ona had seen the first day of their arrival . 
Then , too , he sold the bricks to the city , at his own price , and the city came and got them in its own wagons . 
The newspapers had got hold of that story , and there had been a scandal but Scully had hired somebody to confess and take all the blame , and then skip the country . 
This gave him many friends all of whom he had gotten together into the War Whoop League , whose clubhouse you might see just outside of the yards . 
It was the biggest clubhouse , and the biggest club , in all Chicago and they had prizefights every now and then , and cockfights and even dogfights . 
The policemen in the district all belonged to the league , and instead of suppressing the fights , they sold tickets for them . 
The city inspector of water pipes had been dead and buried for over a year , but somebody was still drawing his pay . 
It gave them pleasure to believe this , for Scully stood as the people's man , and boasted of it boldly when election day came . 
One long arm of it is blind , and the filth stays there forever and a day . 
Bubbles of carbonic acid gas will rise to the surface and burst , and make rings two or three feet wide . 
The banks of Bubbly Creek are plastered thick with hairs , and this also the packers gather and clean . 
And there were things even stranger than this , according to the gossip of the men . 
The packers had secret mains , through which they stole billions of gallons of the city's water . 
And then there was the condemned meat industry , with its endless horrors . 
Jurgis heard of these things little by little , in the gossip of those who were obliged to perpetrate them . 
It seemed as if every time you met a person from a new department , you heard of new swindles and new crimes . 
It seemed that they must have agencies all over the country , to hunt out old and crippled and diseased cattle to be canned . 
There were cattle which had been fed on whisky malt , the refuse of the breweries , and had become what the men called steerly which means covered with boils . 
They were regular alchemists at Durham's they advertised a mushroom catsup , and the men who made it did not know what a mushroom looked like . 
They advertised potted chicken , and it was like the boardinghouse soup of the comic papers , through which a chicken had walked with rubbers on . 
They put these up in several grades , and sold them at several prices but the contents of the cans all came out of the same hopper . 
And then there was potted game and potted grouse , potted ham , and deviled ham de vyled , as the men called it . 
All this ingenious mixture was ground up and flavored with spices to make it taste like something . 
Now it was against the law to kill horses in Packingtown , and the law was really complied with for the present , at any rate . 
The workers in each of them had their own peculiar diseases . 
The hands of these men would be criss crossed with cuts , until you could no longer pretend to count them or to trace them . 
They would have no nails , they had worn them off pulling hides their knuckles were swollen so that their fingers spread out like a fan . 
There were those who made the tins for the canned meat and their hands , too , were a maze of cuts , and each cut represented a chance for blood poisoning . 
There were the hoisters , as they were called , whose task it was to press the lever which lifted the dead cattle off the floor . 
Worst of any , however , were the fertilizer men , and those who served in the cooking rooms . 
Marija was in despair , for there was still no word about the reopening of the canning factory , and her savings were almost entirely gone . 
So Jurgis and Ona and Teta Elzbieta would hold anxious conferences until late at night , trying to figure how they could manage this too without starving . 
They would no sooner escape , as by a miracle , from one difficulty , than a new one would come into view . 
In addition to all their physical hardships , there was thus a constant strain upon their minds they were harried all day and nearly all night by worry and fear . 
This was in truth not living it was scarcely even existing , and they felt that it was too little for the price they paid . 
Once their water pipes froze and burst and when , in their ignorance , they thawed them out , they had a terrifying flood in their house . 
And then again , when they went to pay their January's installment on the house , the agent terrified them by asking them if they had had the insurance attended to yet . 
Poor Elzbieta , upon whom again fell the blow , demanded how much it would cost them . 
And Jurgis looked the fellow squarely in the eye , and so the fellow wasted no time in conventional protests , but read him the deed . 
This , besides the interest and the monthly installments , would be all unless by chance the city should happen to decide to put in a sewer or to lay a sidewalk . 
Yes , said the agent , they would have to have these , whether they wanted them or not , if the city said so . 
The sewer would cost them about twenty two dollars , and the sidewalk fifteen if it were wood , twenty five if it were cement . 
So Jurgis went home again it was a relief to know the worst , at any rate , so that he could no more be surprised by fresh demands . 
He saw now how they had been plundered but they were in for it , there was no turning back . 
They could only go on and make the fight and win for defeat was a thing that could not even be thought of . 
Then , too , the warm weather brought trials of its own each season had its trials , as they found . 
There was not even a place where a man could wash his hands , and the men ate as much raw blood as food at dinnertime . 
Perhaps the summertime suggests to you thoughts of the country , visions of green fields and mountains and sparkling lakes . 
It had no such suggestion for the people in the yards . 
They had only Sundays , and then they were too tired to walk . 
They were tied to the great packing machine , and tied to it for life . 
The managers and superintendents and clerks of Packingtown were all recruited from another class , and never from the workers they scorned the workers , the very meanest of them . 
Perhaps this was due to the repulsiveness of the work at any rate , the people who worked with their hands were a class apart , and were made to feel it . 
In the late spring the canning factory started up again , and so once more Marija was heard to sing , and the love music of Tamoszius took on a less melancholy tone . 
It was not for long , however for a month or two later a dreadful calamity fell upon Marija . 
Just one year and three days after she had begun work as a can painter , she lost her job . 
It was a long story . 
Marija insisted that it was because of her activity in the union . 
So every week they received reports as to what was going on , and often they knew things before the members of the union knew them . 
However that might be , the known facts were that a few weeks before the factory closed , Marija had been cheated out of her pay for three hundred cans . 
The girls worked at a long table , and behind them walked a woman with pencil and notebook , keeping count of the number they finished . 
But Marija did not understand this , and made a disturbance . 
Marija's disturbances did not mean anything , and while she had known only Lithuanian and Polish , they had done no harm , for people only laughed at her and made her cry . 
But now Marija was able to call names in English , and so she got the woman who made the mistake to disliking her . 
Just how things happened after that Marija was not sure , but that afternoon the forelady told her that her services would not be any longer required . 
In the end she sat down in the middle of the floor and wept and wailed . 
It was a cruel lesson but then Marija was headstrong she should have listened to those who had had experience . 
The next time she would know her place , as the forelady expressed it and so Marija went out , and the family faced the problem of an existence again . 
It was especially hard this time , for Ona was to be confined before long , and Jurgis was trying hard to save up money for this . 
He had heard dreadful stories of the midwives , who grow as thick as fleas in Packingtown and he had made up his mind that Ona must have a man doctor . 
Day after day she wandered about the yards begging a job , but this time without hope of finding it . 
Marija could do the work of an able bodied man , when she was cheerful , but discouragement wore her out easily , and she would come home at night a pitiable object . 
She learned her lesson this time , poor creature she learned it ten times over . 
All the family learned it along with her that when you have once got a job in Packingtown , you hang on to it , come what will . 
Four weeks Marija hunted , and half of a fifth week . 
Of course she stopped paying her dues to the union . 
She lost all interest in the union , and cursed herself for a fool that she had ever been dragged into one . 
She had about made up her mind that she was a lost soul , when somebody told her of an opening , and she went and got a place as a beef trimmer . 
When she first came to Packingtown , Marija would have scorned such work as this . 
She was in another canning factory , and her work was to trim the meat of those diseased cattle that Jurgis had been told about not long before . 
But because Marija was a human horse she merely laughed and went at it it would enable her to pay her board again , and keep the family going . 
And as for Tamoszius well , they had waited a long time , and they could wait a little longer . 
They could not possibly get along upon his wages alone , and the family could not live without hers . 
He could come and visit her , and sit in the kitchen and hold her hand , and he must manage to be content with that . 
Marija's lesson came just in time to save Ona from a similar fate . 
Ona , too , was dissatisfied with her place , and had far more reason than Marija . 
She did not tell half of her story at home , because she saw it was a torment to Jurgis , and she was afraid of what he might do . 
For a long time Ona had seen that Miss Henderson , the forelady in her department , did not like her . 
At first she thought it was the old time mistake she had made in asking for a holiday to get married . 
In the end , however , Ona discovered that it was even worse than that . 
He had put her there to keep her quiet , it seemed and that not altogether with success , for once or twice they had been heard quarreling . 
She had the temper of a hyena , and soon the place she ran was a witch's caldron . 
Sometimes women from the house would be given places alongside of decent girls , and after other decent girls had been turned off to make room for them . 
There would be stories about it going the rounds the girls opposite you would be telling them and winking at you . 
In such a place Ona would not have stayed a day , but for starvation and , as it was , she was never sure that she could stay the next day . 
One morning Ona stayed home , and Jurgis had the man doctor , according to his whim , and she was safely delivered of a fine baby . 
It was an enormous big boy , and Ona was such a tiny creature herself , that it seemed quite incredible . 
Jurgis would stand and gaze at the stranger by the hour , unable to believe that it had really happened . 
The coming of this boy was a decisive event with Jurgis . 
There was nothing he cared for now so much as to sit and look at the baby . 
This was very curious , for Jurgis had never been interested in babies before . 
But then , this was a very unusual sort of a baby . 
Perhaps , Jurgis thought , this was intended to signify that it was his baby that it was his and Ona's , to care for all its life . 
Jurgis had never possessed anything nearly so interesting a baby was , when you came to think about it , assuredly a marvelous possession . 
It took him quite a while to get over his alarm at the incredible shortness of the little creature's legs . 
Jurgis had , alas , very little time to see his baby he never felt the chains about him more than just then . 
When he came home at night , the baby would be asleep , and it would be the merest chance if he awoke before Jurgis had to go to sleep himself . 
Then in the morning there was no time to look at him , so really the only chance the father had was on Sundays . 
That would be a greater calamity than ever now , Ona continued , on account of the baby . 
They would all have to work harder now on his account . 
It was such a responsibility they must not have the baby grow up to suffer as they had . 
Chapter During the summer the packing houses were in full activity again , and Jurgis made more money . 
He did not make so much , however , as he had the previous summer , for the packers took on more hands . 
Sooner or later , by this plan , they would have all the floating labor of Chicago trained to do their work . 
A new union was the result of this outburst , but the impromptu strike went to pieces in three days , owing to the rush of new labor . 
Jurgis and Ona heard these stories with dismay , for there was no telling when their own time might come . 
He had learned by this time that Packingtown was really not a number of firms at all , but one great firm , the Beef Trust . 
And every week the managers of it got together and compared notes , and there was one scale for all the workers in the yards and one standard of efficiency . 
Marija was getting to be a skilled beef trimmer , and was mounting to the heights again . 
During the summer and fall Jurgis and Ona managed to pay her back the last penny they owed her , and so she began to have a bank account . 
Tamoszius had a bank account also , and they ran a race , and began to figure upon household expenses once more . 
The possession of vast wealth entails cares and responsibilities , however , as poor Marija found out . 
She had taken the advice of a friend and invested her savings in a bank on Ashland Avenue . 
Her principal thought was of fire , for she had deposited her money in bills , and was afraid that if they were burned up the bank would not give her any others . 
All the blood went out of her face for terror . 
Had something gone wrong with the bank ? Nobody was sure , but they thought so . 
Couldn't she get her money ? There was no telling the people were afraid not , and they were all trying to get it . 
It was too early yet to tell anything the bank would not open for nearly three hours . 
It was a scene of wild confusion , women shrieking and wringing their hands and fainting , and men fighting and trampling down everything in their way . 
This was fortunate for her , for a few minutes later the police reserves arrived . 
In half an hour Marija was back , Teta Elzbieta with her , both of them breathless with running and sick with fear . 
Toward evening Jurgis came he had heard the story from the children , and he brought some food and dry wraps , which made it a little easier . 
The next morning , before daybreak , came a bigger crowd than ever , and more policemen from downtown . 
Marija held on like grim death , and toward afternoon she got into the bank and got her money all in big silver dollars , a handkerchief full . 
About this time Jurgis and Ona also began a bank account . 
Besides having paid Jonas and Marija , they had almost paid for their furniture , and could have that little sum to count on . 
So long as each of them could bring home nine or ten dollars a week , they were able to get along finely . 
Also election day came round again , and Jurgis made half a week's wages out of that , all net profit . 
It was a very close election that year , and the echoes of the battle reached even to Packingtown . 
The two rival sets of grafters hired halls and set off fireworks and made speeches , to try to get the people interested in the matter . 
Although Jurgis did not understand it all , he knew enough by this time to realize that it was not supposed to be right to sell your vote . 
Now chill winds and shortening days began to warn them that the winter was coming again . 
The prospect struck fear to the heart of Jurgis also , for he knew that Ona was not fit to face the cold and the snowdrifts this year . 
He had faced difficulties before , but they had been child's play now there was a death struggle , and all the furies were unchained within him . 
Once it was eleven o'clock at night , and black as the pit , but still they got home . 
That blizzard knocked many a man out , for the crowd outside begging for work was never greater , and the packers would not wait long for any one . 
When it was over , the soul of Jurgis was a song , for he had met the enemy and conquered , and felt himself the master of his fate . 
So it might be with some monarch of the forest that has vanquished his foes in fair fight , and then falls into some cowardly trap in the night time . 
A time of peril on the killing beds was when a steer broke loose . 
Then there would be a yell of warning the men would drop everything and dash for the nearest pillar , slipping here and there on the floor , and tumbling over each other . 
That is the only word to describe it it was so cruel , and so utterly not to be foreseen . 
At first he hardly noticed it , it was such a slight accident simply that in leaping out of the way he turned his ankle . 
There was a twinge of pain , but Jurgis was used to pain , and did not coddle himself . 
Still , even then , he did nothing more than swear a little , and wrapped his foot in old rags , and hobbled out to take the car . 
The injury was not one that Durham and Company could be held responsible for , and so that was all there was to it , so far as the doctor was concerned . 
When they had gotten him to sleep , however , they sat by the kitchen fire and talked it over in frightened whispers . 
They were in for a siege , that was plainly to be seen . 
Jurgis had only about sixty dollars in the bank , and the slack season was upon them . 
There was the rent to pay , and still some on the furniture there was the insurance just due , and every month there was sack after sack of coal . 
It was January , midwinter , an awful time to have to face privation . 
Deep snows would come again , and who would carry Ona to her work now ? She might lose her place she was almost certain to lose it . 
The bitterness of it was the daily food and drink of Jurgis . 
The worry of it fairly ate him up he began to look haggard the first two or three days of it . 
In truth , it was almost maddening for a strong man like him , a fighter , to have to lie there helpless on his back . 
It was for all the world the old story of Prometheus bound . 
As Jurgis lay on his bed , hour after hour there came to him emotions that he had never known before . 
Before this he had met life with a welcome it had its trials , but none that a man could not face . 
It was like seeing the world fall away from underneath his feet like plunging down into a bottomless abyss into yawning caverns of despair . 
To add to this there was the board of Jonas and Marija , about forty five dollars . 
Deducting from this the rent , interest , and installments on the furniture , they had left sixty dollars , and deducting the coal , they had fifty . 
It was amazing what quantities of food such as this were needed every day , by eleven hungry persons . 
Because the account was in her name , it was possible for her to keep this a secret from her husband , and to keep the heartsickness of it for her own . 
It would have been better if Jurgis had been really ill if he had not been able to think . 
For he had no resources such as most invalids have all he could do was to lie there and toss about from side to side . 
Elzbieta was all alone with him the greater part of the time . 
She would sit and smooth his forehead by the hour , and talk to him and try to make him forget . 
Elzbieta's only resource in those times was little Antanas indeed , it would be hard to say how they could have gotten along at all if it had not been for little Antanas . 
It was the one consolation of Jurgis' long imprisonment that now he had time to look at his baby . 
Teta Elzbieta would put the clothesbasket in which the baby slept alongside of his mattress , and Jurgis would lie upon one elbow and watch him by the hour , imagining things . 
It was a very obstinate sprain the swelling would not go down , and the pain still continued . 
No arguments could stop him , and three or four days later he declared that he was going back to work . 
Every now and then the pain would force Jurgis to stop work , but he stuck it out till nearly an hour before closing . 
Two of the men had to help him to the car , and when he got out he had to sit down and wait in the snow till some one came along . 
So they put him to bed again , and sent for the doctor , as they ought to have done in the beginning . 
It transpired that he had twisted a tendon out of place , and could never have gotten well without attention . 
Then he gripped the sides of the bed , and shut his teeth together , and turned white with agony , while the doctor pulled and wrenched away at his swollen ankle . 
About noon the last two came back , the boy screaming with pain . 
His fingers were all frosted , it seemed . 
They had had to give up trying to get to the yards , and had nearly perished in a drift . 
This was never for very long , however , for when Ona began to cry , Jurgis could not stay angry . 
His muscles were wasting away , and what were left were soft and flabby . 
He had no appetite , and they could not afford to tempt him with delicacies . 
It was better , he said , that he should not eat , it was a saving . 
About the end of March he had got hold of Ona's bankbook , and learned that there was only three dollars left to them in the world . 
But perhaps the worst of the consequences of this long siege was that they lost another member of their family Brother Jonas disappeared . 
One Saturday night he did not come home , and thereafter all their efforts to get trace of him were futile . 
It was said by the boss at Durham's that he had gotten his week's money and left there . 
That might not be true , of course , for sometimes they would say that when a man had been killed it was the easiest way out of it for all concerned . 
More probable , however , was the theory that Jonas had deserted them , and gone on the road , seeking happiness . 
He had been discontented for a long time , and not without some cause . 
He paid good board , and was yet obliged to live in a family where nobody had enough to eat . 
And Marija would keep giving them all her money , and of course he could not but feel that he was called upon to do the same . 
Here there was not room by the fire , and through the winter the kitchen had seldom been warm enough for comfort . 
Also they were borrowing money from Marija , and eating up her bank account , and spoiling once again her hopes of marriage and happiness . 
And they were even going into debt to Tamoszius Kuszleika and letting him impoverish himself . 
So it was finally decided that two more of the children would have to leave school . 
Both of these last were bright boys , and there was no reason why their family should starve when tens of thousands of children no older were earning their own livings . 
So they both received a whipping , and the next moming set out again . 
Fortunately , however , they had already sold some papers , and came back with nearly as much as they started with . 
All this was fair play , they felt . 
A man can get used to anything in the course of time , and Jurgis had gotten used to lying about the house . 
Ona saw this , and was very careful not to destroy his peace of mind , by letting him know how very much pain she was suffering . 
She wondered if he cared for her as much as ever , if all this misery was not wearing out his love . 
The latter part of April Jurgis went to see the doctor , and was given a bandage to lace about his ankle , and told that he might go back to work . 
Jurgis knew that this meant simply that the foreman had found some one else to do the work as well and did not want to bother to make a change . 
He stood in the doorway , looking mournfully on , seeing his friends and companions at work , and feeling like an outcast . 
Then he went out and took his place with the mob of the unemployed . 
This time , however , Jurgis did not have the same fine confidence , nor the same reason for it . 
And there were hundreds who looked and felt just like him , and who had been wandering about Packingtown for months begging for work . 
This was a critical time in Jurgis' life , and if he had been a weaker man he would have gone the way the rest did . 
Those out of work wretches would stand about the packing houses every morning till the police drove them away , and then they would scatter among the saloons . 
He must get work , he told himself , fighting the battle with despair every hour of the day . 
He must get work ! He must have a place again and some money saved up , before the next winter came . 
But there was no work for him . 
He sought out all the members of his union Jurgis had stuck to the union through all this and begged them to speak a word for him . 
He went to every one he knew , asking for a chance , there or anywhere . 
The peculiar bitterness of all this was that Jurgis saw so plainly the meaning of it . 
When a man came back after that , he would get his place back only by the courtesy of the boss . 
This promise they would keep , strictly and to the letter for two years . 
Two years was the statute of limitations , and after that the victim could not sue . 
What happened to a man after any of these things , all depended upon the circumstances . 
If he were of the highly skilled workers , he would probably have enough saved up to tide him over . 
Chapter During this time that Jurgis was looking for work occurred the death of little Kristoforas , one of the children of Teta Elzbieta . 
He was the last of Teta Elzbieta's children , and perhaps he had been intended by nature to let her know that she had had enough . 
At any rate he was wretchedly sick and undersized he had the rickets , and though he was over three years old , he was no bigger than an ordinary child of one . 
This made him a nuisance , and a source of endless trouble in the family . 
Perhaps it was the smoked sausage he had eaten that morning which may have been made out of some of the tubercular pork that was condemncd as unfit for export . 
At any rate , an hour after eating it , the child had begun to cry with pain , and in another hour he was rolling about on the floor in convulsions . 
Little Kotrina , who was all alone with him , ran out screaming for help , and after a while a doctor came , but not until Kristoforas had howled his last howl . 
No one was really sorry about this except poor Elzbieta , who was inconsolable . 
The poor mother was not the same for months after that the mere sight of the floor where little Kristoforas had crawled about would make her weep . 
He had never had a fair chance , poor little fellow , she would say . 
He had been handicapped from his birth . 
If only she had heard about it in time , so that she might have had that great doctor to cure him of his lameness ! . 
There are all stages of being out of work in Packingtown , and he faced in dread the prospect of reaching the lowest . 
There is a place that waits for the lowest man the fertilizer plant ! The men would talk about it in awe stricken whispers . 
Not more than one in ten had ever really tried it the other nine had contented themselves with hearsay evidence and a peep through the door . 
There were some things worse than even starving to death . 
They would ask Jurgis if he had worked there yet , and if he meant to and Jurgis would debate the matter with himself . 
Few visitors ever saw them , and the few who did would come out looking like Dante , of whom the peasants declared that he had been into hell . 
Here they made the blood into albumen , and made other foul smelling things into things still more foul smelling . 
In the corridors and caverns where it was done you might lose yourself as in the great caves of Kentucky . 
For the odors of these ghastly charnel houses there may be words in Lithuanian , but there are none in English . 
The person entering would have to summon his courage as for a cold water plunge . 
It was to this building that Jurgis came daily , as if dragged by an unseen hand . 
Here was one more difficulty for him to meet and conquer ! His labor took him about one minute to learn . 
Jurgis was given a shovel , and along with half a dozen others it was his task to shovel this fertilizer into carts . 
When he had filled one cart he had to grope around him until another came , and if there was none on hand he continued to grope till one arrived . 
The building had to be left open , and when the wind blew Durham and Company lost a great deal of fertilizer . 
The blood was pounding in his brain like an engine's throbbing there was a frightful pain in the top of his skull , and he could hardly control his hands . 
At the end of that day of horror , he could scarcely stand . 
He had to catch himself now and then , and lean against a building and get his bearings . 
Most of the men , when they came out , made straight for a saloon they seemed to place fertilizer and rattlesnake poison in one class . 
But Jurgis was too ill to think of drinking he could only make his way to the street and stagger on to a car . 
He had a sense of humor , and later on , when he became an old hand , he used to think it fun to board a streetcar and see what happened . 
Of course Jurgis had made his home a miniature fertilizer mill a minute after entering . 
So there passed another summer . 
It was utterly useless to caution them and plead with them quite without knowing it , they were taking on the tone of their new environment . 
And worse yet , the boys were getting out of the habit of coming home at night . 
The men and women who worked in this department were precisely the color of the fresh country sausage they made . 
Presumably sausages were once chopped and stuffed by hand , and if so it would be interesting to know how many workers had been displaced by these inventions . 
Thus one might stand and see appear , miraculously born from the machine , a wriggling snake of sausage of incredible length . 
In front was a big pan which caught these creatures , and two more women who seized them as fast as they appeared and twisted them into links . 
The woman did not go on she stayed right there hour after hour , day after day , year after year , twisting sausage links and racing with death . 
Chapter With one member trimming beef in a cannery , and another working in a sausage factory , the family had a first hand knowledge of the great majority of Packingtown swindles . 
To pump into these the packers had a second and much stronger pickle which destroyed the odor a process known to the workers as giving them thirty per cent . 
Also , after the hams had been smoked , there would be found some that had gone to the bad . 
After this invention there was no longer Number One , Two , and Three Grade there was only Number One Grade . 
Cut up by the two thousand revolutions a minute flyers , and mixed with half a ton of other meat , no odor that ever was in a ham could make any difference . 
There would be meat that had tumbled out on the floor , in the dirt and sawdust , where the workers had tramped and spit uncounted billions of consumption germs . 
There would be meat stored in great piles in rooms and the water from leaky roofs would drip over it , and thousands of rats would race about on it . 
These rats were nuisances , and the packers would put poisoned bread out for them they would die , and then rats , bread , and meat would go into the hoppers together . 
Such were the new surroundings in which Elzbieta was placed , and such was the work she was compelled to do . 
It was stupefying , brutalizing work it left her no time to think , no strength for anything . 
She was part of the machine she tended , and every faculty that was not needed for the machine was doomed to be crushed out of existence . 
There was only one mercy about the cruel grind that it gave her the gift of insensibility . 
Little by little she sank into a torpor she fell silent . 
She would meet Jurgis and Ona in the evening , and the three would walk home together , often without saying a word . 
Ona , too , was falling into a habit of silence Ona , who had once gone about singing like a bird . 
She was sick and miserable , and often she would barely have strength enough to drag herself home . 
They were so numbed that they did not even suffer much from hunger , now only the children continued to fret when the food ran short . 
Yet the soul of Ona was not dead the souls of none of them were dead , but only sleeping and now and then they would waken , and these were cruel times . 
They could not even cry out beneath it but anguish would seize them , more dreadful than the agony of death . 
It was a thing scarcely to be spoken a thing never spoken by all the world , that will not know its own defeat . 
They were beaten they had lost the game , they were swept aside . 
It was not less tragic because it was so sordid , because it had to do with wages and grocery bills and rents . 
They had dreamed of freedom of a chance to look about them and learn something to be decent and clean , to see their child grow up to be strong . 
And now it was all gone it would never be ! They had played the game and they had lost . 
Once she cried aloud , and woke Jurgis , who was tired and cross . 
After that she learned to weep silently their moods so seldom came together now ! It was as if their hopes were buried in separate graves . 
Jurgis , being a man , had troubles of his own . 
There was another specter following him . 
He had never spoken of it , nor would he allow any one else to speak of it he had never acknowledged its existence to himself . 
Yet the battle with it took all the manhood that he had and once or twice , alas , a little more . 
His dead self would stir in him , and he would find himself laughing and cracking jokes with his companions he would be a man again , and master of his life . 
It was not an easy thing for Jurgis to take more than two or three drinks . 
One day , however , he took the plunge , and drank up all that he had in his pockets , and went home half piped , as the men phrase it . 
It was a battle that had no end , that never could have one . 
But Jurgis did not realize that very clearly he was not given much time for reflection . 
He simply knew that he was always fighting . 
Steeped in misery and despair as he was , merely to walk down the street was to be put upon the rack . 
Jurgis developed a fondness for having Ona on his arm whenever he went out on the street , and he would hold her tightly , and walk fast . 
Sometimes , in despeate hours , he would find himself wishing that she might learn what it was , so that he need not be ashamed in her presence . 
They might drink together , and escape from the horror escape for a while , come what would . 
So there came a time when nearly all the conscious life of Jurgis consisted of a struggle with the craving for liquor . 
He would have ugly moods , when he hated Ona and the whole family , because they stood in his way . 
He was a fool to have married he had tied himself down , had made himself a slave . 
There were few single men in the fertilizer mill and those few were working only for a chance to escape . 
This was not always his mood , of course he still loved his family . 
But just now was a time of trial . 
Poor little Antanas , for instance who had never failed to win him with a smile little Antanas was not smiling just now , being a mass of fiery red pimples . 
Now and then Kotrina would find time to sob over his woes , but for the greater part of the time he had to be left alone , barricaded upon the bed . 
The floor was full of drafts , and if he caught cold he would die . 
At night he was tied down , lest he should kick the covers off him , while the family lay in their stupor of exhaustion . 
He would lie and scream for hours , almost in convulsions and then , when he was worn out , he would lie whimpering and wailing in his torment . 
Yet all this was not really as cruel as it sounds , for , sick as he was , little Antanas was the least unfortunate member of that family . 
He was quite able to bear his sufferings it was as if he had all these complaints to show what a prodigy of health he was . 
He was the child of his parents' youth and joy he grew up like the conjurer's rosebush , and all the world was his oyster . 
Antanas was but little over a year old , and already no one but his father could manage him . 
It seemed as if he had taken all of his mother's strength had left nothing for those that might come after him . 
For Ona was visibly going to pieces . 
In the first place she was developing a cough , like the one that had killed old Dede Antanas . 
Several times she was quite beside herself and hysterical and then Jurgis would go half mad with fright . 
She had never been like this before , he would argue it was monstrous and unthinkable . 
It was the life she had to live , the accursed work she had to do , that was killing her by inches . 
So she would lie and sob out her grief upon his shoulder , while he gazed at her , as helpless as a wounded animal , the target of unseen enemies . 
Chapter The beginning of these perplexing things was in the summer and each time Ona would promise him with terror in her voice that it would not happen again but in vain . 
It was only because he was so numb and beaten himself that Jurgis did not worry more about this . 
But he never thought of it , except when he was dragged to it he lived like a dumb beast of burden , knowing only the moment in which he was . 
The winter was coming on again , more menacing and cruel than ever . 
It was October , and the holiday rush had begun . 
So they staggered on with the awful load . 
They would start work every morning at seven , and eat their dinners at noon , and then work until ten or eleven at night without another mouthful of food . 
When they got home they were always too tired either to eat or to undress they would crawl into bed with their shoes on , and lie like logs . 
If they should fail , they would certainly be lost if they held out , they might have enough coal for the winter . 
A day or two before Thanksgiving Day there came a snowstorm . 
It began in the afternoon , and by evening two inches had fallen . 
When he opened his eyes again he was in the midst of a nightmare , and found Elzbieta shaking him and crying out . 
At first he could not realize what she was saying Ona had not come home . 
What time was it , he asked . 
It was morning time to be up . 
Ona had not been home that night ! And it was bitter cold , and a foot of snow on the ground . 
Jurgis sat up with a start . 
Marija was crying with fright and the children were wailing in sympathy little Stanislovas in addition , because the terror of the snow was upon him . 
Jurgis had nothing to put on but his shoes and his coat , and in half a minute he was out of the door . 
Then , however , he realized that there was no need of haste , that he had no idea where to go . 
It was still dark as midnight , and the thick snowflakes were sifting down everything was so silent that he could hear the rustle of them as they fell . 
In the few seconds that he stood there hesitating he was covered white . 
He set off at a run for the yards , stopping by the way to inquire in the saloons that were open . 
Ona might have been overcome on the way or else she might have met with an accident in the machines . 
When he got to the place where she worked he inquired of one of the watchmen there had not been any accident , so far as the man had heard . 
At the time office , which he found already open , the clerk told him that Ona's check had been turned in the night before , showing that she had left her work . 
After that there was nothing for him to do but wait , pacing back and forth in the snow , meantime , to keep from freezing . 
Before the first streaks of daylight there came the crowding throngs of workingmen , shivering , and swinging their dinner pails as they hurried by . 
Seven o'clock came , the hour when the great packing machine began to move . 
Jurgis ought to have been at his place in the fertilizer mill but instead he was waiting , in an agony of fear , for Ona . 
It was fifteen minutes after the hour when he saw a form emerge from the snow mist , and sprang toward it with a cry . 
It was she , running swiftly as she saw him , she staggered forward , and half fell into his outstretched arms . 
What has been the matter ? he cried , anxiously . 
Where have you been ? It was several scconds before she could get breath to answer him . 
I couldn't get home , she exclaimed . 
The snow the cars had stopped . 
But where were you then ? he demanded . 
I had to go home with a friend , she panted with Jadvyga . 
Jurgis drew a deep breath but then he noticed that she was sobbing and trembling as if in one of those nervous crises that he dreaded so . 
But what's the matter ? he cried . 
What has happened ? Oh , Jurgis , I was so frightened ! she said , clinging to him wildly . 
I have been so worried ! They were near the time station window , and people were staring at them . 
How do you mean ? he asked , in perplexity . 
I was afraid I was just afraid ! sobbed Ona . 
I knew you wouldn't know where I was , and I didn't know what you might do . 
I tried to get home , but I was so tired . 
Oh , Jurgis , Jurgis ! He was so glad to get her back that he could not think clearly about anything else . 
It did not seem strange to him that she should be so very much upset all her fright and incoherent protestations did not matter since he had her back . 
There was another brief interval . 
It lacked but three days of the holidays . 
About midnight Marija and Elzbieta came home , exclaiming in alarm when they found that Ona had not come . 
There was no snow that night , nor was it especially cold and still Ona had not come ! Something more serious must be wrong this time . 
They aroused Jurgis , and he sat up and listened crossly to the story . 
She must have gone home again with Jadvyga , he said Jadvyga lived only two blocks from the yards , and perhaps she had been tired . 
Nothing could have happened to her and even if there had , there was nothing could be done about it until morning . 
Jurgis turned over in his bed , and was snoring again before the two had closed the door . 
In the morning , however , he was up and out nearly an hour before the usual time . 
Instead there was one of Jadvyga's little sisters , who gazed at him through a crack in thc door . 
Where's Ona ? he demanded and the child looked at him in perplexity . 
isn't she here ? No , said the child , and Jurgis gave a start . 
A moment later came Jadvyga , peering over the child's head . 
When she saw who it was , she slid around out of sight , for she was not quite dressed . 
Jurgis must excuse her , she began , her mother was very ill Ona isn't here ? Jurgis demanded , too alarmed to wait for her to finish . 
Why , no , said Jadvyga . 
What made you think she would be here ? Had she said she was coming ? No , he answered . 
But she hasn't come home and I thought she would be here the same as before . 
As before ? echoed Jadvyga , in perplexity . 
The time she spent the night here , said Jurgis . 
There must be some mistake , she answered , quickly . 
Ona has never spent the night here . 
He was only half able to realize the words . 
Jadvyga ! She told me so the night it snowed , and she could not get home . 
There must be some mistake , declared the girl , again she didn't come here . 
He steadied himself by the doorsill and Jadvyga in her anxiety for she was fond of Ona opened the door wide , holding her jacket across her throat . 
Are you sure you didn't misunderstand her ? she cried . 
She must have meant somewhere else . 
She She said here , insisted Jurgis . 
She told me all about you , and how you were , and what you said . 
Are you sure ? You haven't forgotten ? You weren't away ? No , no ! she exclaimed and then came a peevish voice Jadvyga , you are giving the baby a cold . 
He walked on half dazed , without knowing where he went . 
Because there was nothing else to do , he went back to the time office to watch again . 
He waited until nearly an hour after seven , and then went to the room where Ona worked to make inquiries of Ona's forelady . 
Meantime , however , the ham wrappers were working away , with some one else in charge of them . 
The girl who answered Jurgis was busy , and as she talked she looked to see if she were being watched . 
Then a man came up , wheeling a truck he knew Jurgis for Ona's husband , and was curious about the mystery . 
Maybe the cars had something to do with it , he suggested maybe she had gone down town . 
she never went down town . 
Perhaps not , said the man . 
Jurgis thought he saw him exchange a swift glance with the girl as he spoke , and he demanded quickly . 
What do you know about it ? But the man had seen that the boss was watching him he started on again , pushing his truck . 
I don't know anything about it , he said , over his shoulder . 
How should I know where your wife goes ? Then Jurgis went out again and paced up and down before the building . 
All the morning he stayed there , with no thought of his work . 
About noon he went to the police station to make inquiries , and then came back again for another anxious vigil . 
Finally , toward the middle of the alternoon , he set out for home once more . 
He was walking out Ashland Avenue . 
The streetcars had begun running again , and several passed him , packed to the steps with people . 
Then he broke into a run . 
For a whole block he tore after the car , only a little ways behind . 
That rusty black hat with the drooping red flower , it might not be Ona's , but there was very little likelihood of it . 
He would know for certain very soon , for she would get out two blocks ahead . 
He slowed down , and let the car go on . 
She got out and as soon as she was out of sight on the side street Jurgis broke into a run . 
After that he turned back , and for five minutes paced up and down , his hands clenched tightly and his lips set , his mind in a turmoil . 
Then he went home and entered . 
As he opened the door , he saw Elzbieta , who had also been looking for Ona , and had come home again . 
She was now on tiptoe , and had a finger on her lips . 
Jurgis waited until she was close to him . 
Don't make any noise , she whispered , hurriedly . 
What's the matter' ? he asked . 
Ona is asleep , she panted . 
I'm afraid her mind's been wandering , Jurgis . 
She was lost on the street all night , and I've only just succeeded in getting her quiet . 
When did she come in ? he asked . 
Soon after you left this morning , said Elzbieta . 
And has she been out since ? No , of course not . 
She's so weak , Jurgis , she And he set his teeth hard together . 
You are lying to me , he said . 
Elzbieta started , and turned pale . 
What do you mean ? But Jurgis did not answer . 
He pushed her aside , and strode to the bedroom door and opened it . 
Ona was sitting on the bed . 
She turned a startled look upon him as he entered . 
He closed the door in Elzbieta's face , and went toward his wife . 
Where have you been ? he demanded . 
She had her hands clasped tightly in her lap , and he saw that her face was as white as paper , and drawn with pain . 
She gasped once or twice as she tried to answer him , and then began , speaking low , and swiftly . 
Jurgis , I I think I have been out of my mind . 
I started to come last night , and I could not find the way . 
I walked I walked all night , I think , and and I only got home this morning . 
You needed a rest , he said , in a hard tone . 
Why did you go out again ? He was looking her fairly in the face , and he could read the sudden fear and wild uncertainty that leaped into her eyes . 
I I had to go to to the store , she gasped , almost in a whisper , I had to go You are lying to me , said Jurgis . 
Then he clenched his hands and took a step toward her . 
Why do you lie to me ? he cried , fiercely . 
What are you doing that you have to lie to me ? Jurgis ! she exclaimed , starting up in fright . 
Oh , Jurgis , how can you ? You have lied to me , I say ! he cried . 
You told me you had been to Jadvyga's house that other night , and you hadn't . 
You had been where you were last night somewheres downtown , for I saw you get off the car . 
Where were you ? It was as if he had struck a knife into her . 
She seemed to go all to pieces . 
But he stepped aside , deliberately , and let her fall . 
She caught herself at the side of the bed , and then sank down , burying her face in her hands and bursting into frantic weeping . 
There came one of those hysterical crises that had so often dismayed him . 
Ona sobbed and wept , her fear and anguish building themselves up into long climaxes . 
Then he turned again and faced Ona , crying Now , answer me ! Yet she did not hear him she was still in the grip of the fiend . 
She was sobbing and choking it was as if there were too many sounds for one throat , they came chasing each other , like waves upon the sea . 
Then her voice would begin to rise into screams , louder and louder until it broke in wild , horrible peals of laughter . 
She caught them in her hands , in spite of his efforts to step aside , and with her face upon the floor lay writhing . 
For a long minute she lay there , perfectly motionless , until a cold fear seized her husband , thinking that she was dying . 
Suddenly , however , he heard her voice , faintly Jurgis ! Jurgis ! What is it ? he said . 
He had to bend down to her , she was so weak . 
She was pleading with him , in broken phrases , painfully uttered Have faith in me ! Believe me ! Believe what ? he cried . 
Believe that I that I know best that I love you ! And do not ask me what you did . 
Oh , Jurgis , please , please ! It is for the best it is He started to speak again , but she rushed on frantically , heading him off . 
She managed to catch one of his hands and gripped it convulsively , drawing it to her face , and bathing it in her tears . 
You must not do it ! It will drive me mad it will kill me no , no , Jurgis , I am crazy it is nothing . 
You do not really need to know . 
We can be happy we can love each other just the same . 
Oh , please , please , believe me ! Her words fairly drove him wild . 
He tore his hands loose , and flung her off . 
Answer me , he cried . 
God damn it , I say answer me ! She sank down upon the floor , beginning to cry again . 
It was like listening to the moan of a damned soul , and Jurgis could not stand it . 
I don't know how ! He sprang and caught her by the arm , lifting her up , and glaring into her face . 
Tell me where you were last night ! he panted . 
Miss Henderson's house , she gasped . 
He did not understand at first . 
Miss Henderson's house , he echoed . 
And then suddenly , as in an explosion , the horrible truth burst over him , and he reeled and staggered back with a scream . 
He seized her by the throat . 
Tell me ! he gasped , hoarsely . 
Still she answered him , Connor . 
Who is Connor ? The boss , she answered . 
The man He tightened his grip , in his frenzy , and only when he saw her eyes closing did he realize that he was choking her . 
Then he relaxed his fingers , and crouched , waiting , until she opened her lids again . 
His breath beat hot into her face . 
Tell me , he whispered , at last , tell me about it . 
She lay perfectly motionless , and he had to hold his breath to catch her words . 
I did not want to do it , she said I tried I tried not to do it . 
I only did it to save us . 
It was our only chance . 
Again , for a space , there was no sound but his panting . 
Ona's eyes closed and when she spoke again she did not open them . 
He told me he would have me turned off . 
He told me he would we would all of us lose our places . 
We could never get anything to do here again . 
He he meant it he would have ruined us . 
Jurgis' arms were shaking so that he could scarcely hold himself up , and lurched forward now and then as he listened . 
When when did this begin ? he gasped . 
At the very first , she said . 
She spoke as if in a trance . 
It was all it was their plot Miss Henderson's plot . 
And he he wanted me . 
He used to speak to me out on the platform . 
Then he began to to make love to me . 
He begged me he said he loved me . 
He knew all about us , he knew we would starve . 
He knew your boss he knew Marija's . 
He would hound us to death , he said then he said if I would if I we would all of us be sure of work always . 
Then one day he caught hold of me he would not let go he he Where was this ? In the hallway at night after every one had gone . 
I could not help it . 
I thought of you of the baby of mother and the children . 
I was afraid of him afraid to cry out . 
A moment ago her face had been ashen gray , now it was scarlet . 
She was beginning to breathe hard again . 
Jurgis made not a sound . 
That was two months ago . 
Then he wanted me to come to that house . 
He wanted me to stay there . 
He said all of us that we would not have to work . 
He made me come there in the evenings . 
I told you you thought I was at the factory . 
Then one night it snowed , and I couldn't get back . 
And last night the cars were stopped . 
It was such a little thing to ruin us all . 
I tried to walk , but I couldn't . 
I didn't want you to know . 
It would have it would have been all right . 
We could have gone on just the same you need never have known about it . 
He was getting tired of me he would have let me alone soon . 
I am going to have a baby I am getting ugly . 
He told me that twice , he told me , last night . 
He kicked me last night too . 
And now you will kill him you you will kill him and we shall die . 
All this she had said without a quiver she lay still as death , not an eyelid moving . 
And Jurgis , too , said not a word . 
He lifted himself by the bed , and stood up . 
He did not stop for another glance at her , but went to the door and opened it . 
He did not see Elzbieta , crouching terrified in the corner . 
He went out , hatless , leaving the street door open behind him . 
The instant his feet were on the sidewalk he broke into a run . 
He ran like one possessed , blindly , furiously , looking neither to the right nor left . 
He was on Ashland Avenue before exhaustion compelled him to slow down , and then , noticing a car , he made a dart for it and drew himself aboard . 
They began to give way before him as usual . 
The conductor took his nickel gingerly , with the tips of his fingers , and then left him with the platform to himself . 
Jurgis did not even notice it his thoughts were far away . 
Within his soul it was like a roaring furnace he stood waiting , waiting , crouching as if for a spring . 
He had some of his breath back when the car came to the entrance of the yards , and so he leaped off and started again , racing at full speed . 
People turned and stared at him , but he saw no one there was the factory , and he bounded through the doorway and down the corridor . 
He knew the room where Ona worked , and he knew Connor , the boss of the loading gang outside . 
He looked for the man as he sprang into the room . 
The truckmen were hard at work , loading the freshly packed boxes and barrels upon the cars . 
Jurgis shot one swift glance up and down the platform the man was not on it . 
But then suddenly he heard a voice in the corridor , and started for it with a bound . 
In an instant more he fronted the boss . 
He was a big , red faced Irishman , coarse featured , and smelling of liquor . 
He saw Jurgis as he crossed the threshold , and turned white . 
He hesitated one second , as if meaning to run and in the next his assailant was upon him . 
The next moment he was on top of him , burying his fingers in his throat . 
The place , of course , was in an uproar women fainting and shrieking , and men rushing in . 
They got him down upon the floor , clinging to him by his arms and legs , and still they could hardly hold him . 
He fought like a tiger , writhing and twisting , half flinging them off , and starting toward his unconscious enemy . 
But yet others rushed in , until there was a little mountain of twisted limbs and bodies , heaving and tossing , and working its way about the room . 
Chapter When Jurgis got up again he went quietly enough . 
He was exhausted and half dazed , and besides he saw the blue uniforms of the policemen . 
He drove in a patrol wagon with half a dozen of them watching him keeping as far away as possible , however , on account of the fertilizer . 
Then he stood before the sergeant's desk and gave his name and address , and saw a charge of assault and battery entered against him . 
So a barred door clanged upon Jurgis and he sat down upon a bench and buried his face in his hands . 
He was alone he had the afternoon and all of the night to himself . 
At first he was like a wild beast that has glutted itself he was in a dull stupor of satisfaction . 
It would not help to feed her and her child she would certainly lose her place , while he what was to happen to him God only knew . 
In the cell next to him was a drunken wife beater and in the one beyond a yelling maniac . 
Some of them stretched themselves out on the bare stone floor and fell to snoring , others sat up , laughing and talking , cursing and quarreling . 
Jurgis had not known this , or he would have swallowed the stuff in desperation as it was , every nerve of him was aquiver with shame and rage . 
It was a ghost that would not drown it followed him , it seized upon him and beat him to the ground . 
It was a thing that could not be faced a new shuddering seized him every time he tried to think of it . 
No , there was no bearing the load of it , there was no living under it . 
The shame of it would kill her there could be no other deliverance , and it was best that she should die . 
This was simple and clear , and yet , with cruel inconsistency , whenever he escaped from this nightmare it was to suffer and cry out at the vision of Ona starving . 
They had put him in jail , and they would keep him here a long time , years maybe . 
And Ona would surely not go to work again , broken and crushed as she was . 
And Elzbieta and Marija , too , might lose their places if that hell fiend Connor chose to set to work to ruin them , they would all be turned out . 
And even if he did not , they could not live even if the boys left school again , they could surely not pay all the bills without him and Ona . 
They had only a few dollars now they had just paid the rent of the house a week ago , and that after it was two weeks overdue . 
So it would be due again in a week ! They would have no money to pay it then and they would lose the house , after all their long , heartbreaking struggle . 
Three times now the agent had warned him that he would not tolerate another delay . 
They did not advertise their activities , having more calls than they could attend to without that . 
Along with them he was driven into a large , white walled room , stale smelling and crowded . 
In front , upon a raised platform behind a rail , sat a stout , florid faced personage , with a nose broken out in purple blotches . 
Our friend realized vaguely that he was about to be tried . 
He wondered what for whether or not his victim might be dead , and if so , what they would do with him . 
Hang him , perhaps , or beat him to death nothing would have surprised Jurgis , who knew little of the laws . 
If Scully was the thumb , Pat Callahan was the first finger of the unseen hand whereby the packers held down the people of the district . 
Growler Pat had given up holding city offices very early in his career caring only for party power , and giving the rest of his time to superintending his dives and brothels . 
Jurgis sat gazing about the room for an hour or two he was in hopes that some one of the family would come , but in this he was disappointed . 
Finally , he was led before the bar , and a lawyer for the company appeared against him . 
Connor was under the doctor's care , the lawyer explained briefly , and if his Honor would hold the prisoner for a week Three hundred dollars , said his Honor , promptly . 
Jurgis was staring from the judge to the lawyer in perplexity . 
Have you any one to go on your bond ? demanded the judge , and then a clerk who stood at Jurgis' elbow explained to him what this meant . 
The latter shook his head , and before he realized what had happened the policemen were leading him away again . 
Here they searched Jurgis , leaving him only his money , which consisted of fifteen cents . 
This was a great event to the latter the daily review of the new arrivals , all stark naked , and many and diverting were the comments . 
Jurgis was required to stay in the bath longer than any one , in the vain hope of getting out of him a few of his phosphates and acids . 
The prisoners roomed two in a cell , but that day there was one left over , and he was the one . 
The cells were in tiers , opening upon galleries . 
His cell was about five feet by seven in size , with a stone floor and a heavy wooden bench built into it . 
There was no window the only light came from windows near the roof at one end of the court outside . 
When Jurgis lifted up the mattress he discovered beneath it a layer of scurrying roaches , almost as badly frightened as himself . 
Here they brought him more duffers and dope , with the addition of a bowl of soup . 
Many of the prisoners had their meals brought in from a restaurant , but Jurgis had no money for that . 
Some had books to read and cards to play , with candles to burn by night , but Jurgis was all alone in darkness and silence . 
He could not sleep again there was the same maddening procession of thoughts that lashed him like whips upon his naked back . 
When night fell he was pacing up and down his cell like a wild beast that breaks its teeth upon the bars of its cage . 
Now and then in his frenzy he would fling himself against the walls of the place , beating his hands upon them . 
They cut him and bruised him they were cold and merciless as the men who had built them . 
In the distance there was a church tower bell that tolled the hours one by one . 
When it came to midnight Jurgis was lying upon the floor with his head in his arms , listening . 
Instead of falling silent at the end , the bell broke into a sudden clangor . 
And even in Packingtown they had not forgotten it some gleam of it had never failed to break their darkness . 
Nor did they have to go without their share of all this , either . 
She had wiped all the specks off this , and was going to set it on the mantel , where the children could see it . 
Great sobs shook Jurgis at this memory they would spend their Christmas in misery and despair , with him in prison and Ona ill and their home in desolation . 
He was of no consequence he was flung aside , like a bit of trash , the carcass of some animal . 
It was a sham and a loathsome mockery . 
He only knew that he was wronged , and that the world had wronged him that the law , that society , with all its powers , had declared itself his foe . 
And every hour his soul grew blacker , every hour he dreamed new dreams of vengeance , of defiance , of raging , frenzied hate . 
Then he had more duffers and dope , and afterward was allowed three hours for exercise , in a long , cement walked court roofed with glass . 
Here were all the inmates of the jail crowded together . 
Soon after he went back to his cell , a keeper opened the door to let in another prisoner . 
He was a dapper young fellow , with a light brown mustache and blue eyes , and a graceful figure . 
He nodded to Jurgis , and then , as the keeper closed the door upon him , began gazing critically about him . 
Well , pal , he said , as his glance encountered Jurgis again , good morning . 
Good morning , said Jurgis . 
A rum go for Christmas , eh ? added the other . 
The newcomer went to the bunks and inspected the blankets he lifted up the mattress , and then dropped it with an exclamation . 
My God ! he said , that's the worst yet . 
He glanced at Jurgis again . 
Looks as if it hadn't been slept in last night . 
Couldn't stand it , eh ? I didn't want to sleep last night , said Jurgis . 
When did you come in ? Yesterday . 
The other had another look around , and then wrinkled up his nose . 
There's the devil of a stink in here , he said , suddenly . 
What is it ? It's me , said Jurgis . 
You ? Yes , me . 
Didn't they make you wash ? Yes , but this don't wash . 
What is it ? Fertilizer . 
Fertilizer ! The deuce ! What are you ? I work in the stockyards at least I did until the other day . 
That's a new one on me , said the newcomer . 
I thought I'd been up against 'em all . 
What are you in for ? I hit my boss . 
What did he do ? He he treated me mean . 
You're what's called an honest workingman ! What are you ? Jurgis asked . 
I ? The other laughed . 
They say I'm a cracksman , he said . 
What's that ? asked Jurgis . 
Safes , and such things , answered the other . 
Oh , said Jurgis , wonderingly , and stated at the speaker in awe . 
You mean you break into them you you Yes , laughed the other , that's what they say . 
He did not look to be over twenty two or three , though , as Jurgis found afterward , he was thirty . 
He spoke like a man of education , like what the world calls a gentleman . 
Is that what you're here for ? Jurgis inquired . 
No , was the answer . 
I'm here for disorderly conduct . 
They were mad because they couldn't get any evidence . 
What's your name ? the young fellow continued after a pause . 
My name's Duane Jack Duane . 
I've more than a dozen , but that's my company one . 
He drew Jurgis out , and heard all about his life all but the one unmentionable thing and then he told stories about his own life . 
He was a great one for stories , not always of the choicest . 
Being sent to jail had apparently not disturbed his cheerfulness he had done time twice before , it seemed , and he took it all with a frolic welcome . 
What with women and wine and the excitement of his vocation , a man could afford to rest now and then . 
Naturally , the aspect of prison life was changed for Jurgis by the arrival of a cell mate . 
He was striking all the time there was war between him and society . 
He was a genial freebooter , living off the enemy , without fear or shame . 
He was not always victorious , but then defeat did not mean annihilation , and need not break his spirit . 
Withal he was a goodhearted fellow too much so , it appeared . 
Jack Duane was from the East he was a college bred man had been studying electrical engineering . 
Then his father had met with misfortune in business and killed himself and there had been his mother and a younger brother and sister . 
And Duane had been robbed of it by a great company , and got tangled up in lawsuits and lost all his money . 
The other asked him what had led him to safebreaking to Jurgis a wild and appalling occupation to think about . 
A man he had met , his cell mate had replied one thing leads to another . 
Didn't he ever wonder about his family , Jurgis asked . 
Sometimes , the other answered , but not often he didn't allow it . 
Thinking about it would make it no better . 
This wasn't a world in which a man had any business with a family sooner or later Jurgis would find that out also , and give up the fight and shift for himself . 
Duane did not even bother to keep back names and places he told all his triumphs and his failures , his loves and his griefs . 
Also he introduced Jurgis to many of the other prisoners , nearly half of whom he knew by name . 
The crowd had already given Jurgis a name they called him he stinker . 
This was cruel , but they meant no harm by it , and he took it with a goodnatured grin . 
Our friend had caught now and then a whiff from the sewers over which he lived , but this was the first time that he had ever been splashed by their filth . 
There were hardened criminals and innocent men too poor to give bail old men , and boys literally not yet in their teens . 
They were the drainage of the great festering ulcer of society they were hideous to look upon , sickening to talk to . 
All life had turned to rottenness and stench in them love was a beastliness , joy was a snare , and God was an imprecation . 
They strolled here and there about the courtyard , and Jurgis listened to them . 
He was ignorant and they were wise they had been everywhere and tried everything . 
They were swindlers and thieves of pennies and dimes , and they had been trapped and put out of the way by the swindlers and thieves of millions of dollars . 
To most of this Jurgis tried not to listen . 
They frightened him with their savage mockery and all the while his heart was far away , where his loved ones were calling . 
He spent a week in this company , and during all that time he had no word from his home . 
He paid one of his fifteen cents for a postal card , and his companion wrote a note to the family , telling them where he was and when he would be tried . 
There came no answer to it , however , and at last , the day before New Year's , Jurgis bade good by to Jack Duane . 
The latter gave him his address , or rather the address of his mistress , and made Jurgis promise to look him up . 
Maybe I could help you out of a hole some day , he said , and added that he was sorry to have him go . 
Jurgis rode in the patrol wagon back to Justice Callahan's court for trial . 
One of the first things he made out as he entered the room was Teta Elzbieta and little Kotrina , looking pale and frightened , seated far in the rear . 
His heart began to pound , but he did not dare to try to signal to them , and neither did Elzbieta . 
He took his seat in the prisoners' pen and sat gazing at them in helpless agony . 
He saw that Ona was not with them , and was full of foreboding as to what that might mean . 
He spent half an hour brooding over this and then suddenly he straightened up and the blood rushed into his face . 
A man had come in Jurgis could not see his features for the bandages that swathed him , but he knew the burly figure . 
It was Connor ! A trembling seized him , and his limbs bent as if for a spring . 
The fellow was still alive , which was a disappointment , in one way and yet it was pleasant to see him , all in penitential plasters . 
Jurgis listened while the man entered the witness chair , took the oath , and told his story . 
The wife of the prisoner had been employed in a department near him , and had been discharged for impudence to him . 
Half an hour later he had been violently attacked , knocked down , and almost choked to death . 
He had brought witnesses They will probably not be necessary , observed the judge and he turned to Jurgis . 
You admit attacking the plaintiff ? he asked . 
Him ? inquired Jurgis , pointing at the boss . 
Yes , said the judge . 
I hit him , sir , said Jurgis . 
Say 'your Honor , said the officer , pinching his arm hard . 
Your Honor , said Jurgis , obediently . 
You tried to choke him ? Yes , sir , your Honor . 
Ever been arrested before ? No , sir , your Honor . 
What have you to say for yourself ? Jurgis hesitated . 
He tried once or twice , stammering and balking , to the annoyance of the judge , who was gasping from the odor of fertilizer . 
Finally , the prisoner made it understood that his vocabulary was inadequate , and there stepped up a dapper young man with waxed mustaches , bidding him speak in any language he knew . 
When the interpreter had translated this , the judge , whose calendar was crowded , and whose automobile was ordered for a certain hour , interrupted with the remark Oh , I see . 
He turned to the plaintiff , inquiring , Is there any truth in this story , Mr. Connor ? Not a particle , your Honor , said the boss . 
It is very unpleasant they tell some such tale every time you have to discharge a woman Yes , I know , said the judge . 
I hear it often enough . 
The fellow seems to have handled you pretty roughly . 
Jurgis had been listening in perplexity . 
It was only when the policeman who had him by the arm turned and started to lead him away that he realized that sentence had been passed . 
He gazed round him wildly . 
Thirty days ! he panted and then he whirled upon the judge . 
What will my family do ? he cried frantically . 
Jurgis would have spoken again , but the policeman had seized him by the collar and was twisting it , and a second policeman was making for him with evidently hostile intentions . 
So he let them lead him away . 
This time Jurgis was bound for the Bridewell , a petty jail where Cook County prisoners serve their time . 
It would have been quite intolerable , staying in a cell with this wild beast , but for the fact that all day long the prisoners were put at work breaking stone . 
Ten days of his thirty Jurgis spent thus , without hearing a word from his family then one day a keeper came and informed him that there was a visitor to see him . 
Jurgis turned white , and so weak at the knees that he could hardly leave his cell . 
The man led him down the corridor and a flight of steps to the visitors' room , which was barred like a cell . 
Through the grating Jurgis could see some one sitting in a chair and as he came into the room the person started up , and he saw that it was little Stanislovas . 
Well ? he said , weakly . 
Little Stanislovas was also trembling , and all but too frightened to speak . 
They they sent me to tell you he said , with a gulp . 
He followed the boy's glance to where the keeper was standing watching them . 
Never mind that , Jurgis cried , wildly . 
How are they ? Ona is very sick , Stanislovas said and we are almost starving . 
We can't get along we thought you might be able to help us . 
Jurgis gripped the chair tighter there were beads of perspiration on his forehead , and his hand shook . 
I can't help you , he said . 
Ona lies in her room all day , the boy went on , breathlessly . 
She won't eat anything , and she cries all the time . 
She won't tell what is the matter and she won't go to work at all . 
Then a long time ago the man came for the rent . 
He came again last week . 
He said he would turn us out of the house . 
And then Marija A sob choked Stanislovas , and he stopped . 
What's the matter with Marija ? cried Jurgis . 
She's cut her hand ! said the boy . 
She's cut it bad , this time , worse than before . 
She can't work and it's all turning green , and the company doctor says she may she may have to have it cut off . 
Go on ! the other panted in frenzy Go on ! I I will , sobbed Stanislovas . 
It's so so cold all the time . 
And last Sunday it snowed again a deep , deep snow and I couldn't couldn't get to work . 
God ! Jurgis half shouted , and he took a step toward the child . 
Now he clenched his hands , looking as if he would try to break through the grating . 
You little villain , he cried , you didn't try ! I did I did ! wailed Stanislovas , shrinking from him in terror . 
I tried all day two days . 
Elzbieta was with me , and she couldn't either . 
We couldn't walk at all , it was so deep . 
And we had nothing to eat , and oh , it was so cold ! I tried , and then the third day Ona went with me Ona ! Yes . 
She tried to get to work , too . 
But she had lost her place Jurgis reeled , and gave a gasp . 
She went back to that place ? he screamed . 
She tried to , said Stanislovas , gazing at him in perplexity . 
Why not , Jurgis ? The man breathed hard , three or four times . 
Go on , he panted , finally . 
I went with her , said Stanislovas , but Miss Henderson wouldn't take her back . 
And Connor saw her and cursed her . 
Jurgis could not speak he could only stare , his eyes starting out . 
She has been trying to get other work , the boy went on but she's so weak she can't keep up . 
And my boss would not take me back , either Ona says he knows Connor , and that's the reason they've all got a grudge against us now . 
So I've got to go downtown and sell papers with the rest of the boys and Kotrina Kotrina ! Yes , she's been selling papers , too . 
She does best , because she's a girl . 
Only the cold is so bad it's terrible coming home at night , Jurgis . 
Sometimes they can't come home at all I'm going to try to find them tonight and sleep where they do , it's so late and it's such a long ways home . 
I've had to walk , and I didn't know where it was I don't know how to get back , either . 
Only mother said I must come , because you would want to know , and maybe somebody would help your family when they had put you in jail so you couldn't work . 
And I walked all day to get here and I only had a piece of bread for breakfast , Jurgis . 
Mother hasn't any work either , because the sausage department is shut down and she goes and begs at houses with a basket , and people give her food . 
You cannot help us ? he said weakly . 
They won't give you anything here ? He shook it again . 
When are you coming out ? Three weeks yet , Jurgis answered . 
And the boy gazed around him uncertainly . 
Then I might as well go , he said . 
Then , suddenly recollecting , he put his hand into his pocket and drew it out , shaking . 
Here , he said , holding out the fourteen cents . 
And Stanislovas took it , and after a little more hesitation , started for the door . 
Good by , Jurgis , he said , and the other noticed that he walked unsteadily as he passed out of sight . 
For a minute or so Jurgis stood clinging to his chair , reeling and swaying then the keeper touched him on the arm , and he turned and went back to breaking stone . 
Chapter Jurgis did not get out of the Bridewell quite as soon as he had expected . 
So he doffed his prison garb , and put on his old fertilizer clothing , and heard the door of the prison clang behind him . 
But then the cold began to strike through his clothes , and he started quickly away . 
There had been a heavy snow , and now a thaw had set in fine sleety rain was falling , driven by a wind that pierced Jurgis to the bone . 
Now he shivered and shrunk from the rain , hiding his hands in his pockets and hunching his shoulders together . 
Wot yer want ? he queried . 
How do you go to the stockyards ? Jurgis demanded . 
I don't go , replied the boy . 
Jurgis hesitated a moment , nonplussed . 
Then he said , I mean which is the way ? Why don't yer say so then ? was the response , and the boy pointed to the northwest , across the tracks . 
How far is it ? Jurgis asked . 
I dunno , said the other . 
Mebbe twenty miles or so . 
Twenty miles ! Jurgis echoed , and his face fell . 
He had to walk every foot of it , for they had turned him out of jail without a penny in his pockets . 
Yet , when he once got started , and his blood had warmed with walking , he forgot everything in the fever of his thoughts . 
All the dreadful imaginations that had haunted him in his cell now rushed into his mind at once . 
The agony was almost over he was going to find out and he clenched his hands in his pockets as he strode , following his flying desire , almost at a run . 
For an hour or so he walked thus , and then he began to look about him . 
He seemed to be leaving the city altogether . 
The street was turning into a country road , leading out to the westward there were snow covered fields on either side of him . 
Soon he met a farmer driving a two horse wagon loaded with straw , and he stopped him . 
Is this the way to the stockyards ? he asked . 
The farmer scratched his head . 
I dunno jest where they be , he said . 
But they're in the city somewhere , and you're going dead away from it now . 
I was told this was the way , he said . 
Who told you ? A boy . 
Well , mebbe he was playing a joke on ye . 
The best thing ye kin do is to go back , and when ye git into town ask a policeman . 
I'd take ye in , only I've come a long ways an' I'm loaded heavy . 
Git up ! So Jurgis turned and followed , and toward the end of the morning he began to see Chicago again . 
Past endless blocks of two story shanties he walked , along wooden sidewalks and unpaved pathways treacherous with deep slush holes . 
He crossed a long bridge over a river frozen solid and covered with slush . 
Not even on the river bank was the snow white the rain which fell was a diluted solution of smoke , and Jurgis' hands and face were streaked with black . 
A policeman gave him his direction and told him that he had five miles to go . 
It was late afternoon then , and he was hungry , but the dinner invitations hung out of the saloons were not for him . 
So he came at last to the stockyards , to the black volcanoes of smoke and the lowing cattle and the stench . 
Then , seeing a crowded car , his impatience got the better of him and he jumped aboard , hiding behind another man , unnoticed by the conductor . 
In ten minutes more he had reached his street , and home . 
He was half running as he came round the corner . 
There was the house , at any rate and then suddenly he stopped and stared . 
What was the matter with the house ? Jurgis looked twice , bewildered then he glanced at the house next door and at the one beyond then at the saloon on the corner . 
Yes , it was the right place , quite certainly he had not made any mistake . 
But the house the house was a different color ! He came a couple of steps nearer . 
A sudden and horrible spasm of fear had come over him . 
His knees were shaking beneath him , and his mind was in a whirl . 
And now it was fixed ! And the broken windowpane replaced ! And curtains in the windows ! New , white curtains , stiff and shiny ! Then suddenly the front door opened . 
Jurgis stood , his chest heaving as he struggled to catch his breath . 
A boy had come out , a stranger to him a big , fat , rosy cheeked youngster , such as had never been seen in his home before . 
Jurgis stared at the boy , fascinated . 
He came down the steps whistling , kicking off the snow . 
He stopped at the foot , and picked up some , and then leaned against the railing , making a snowball . 
A moment later he looked around and saw Jurgis , and their eyes met it was a hostile glance , the boy evidently thinking that the other had suspicions of the snowball . 
When Jurgis started slowly across the street toward him , he gave a quick glance about , meditating retreat , but then he concluded to stand his ground . 
Jurgis took hold of the railing of the steps , for he was a little unsteady . 
What what are you doing here ? he managed to gasp . 
Go on ! said the boy . 
What do you want here ? Me ? answered the boy , angrily . 
You live here ! Jurgis panted . 
He turned white and clung more tightly to the railing . 
You live here ! Then where's my family ? The boy looked surprised . 
Your family ! he echoed . 
And Jurgis started toward him . 
I this is my house ! he cried . 
Come off ! said the boy then suddenly the door upstairs opened , and he called Hey , ma ! Here's a fellow says he owns this house . 
A stout Irishwoman came to the top of the steps . 
What's that ? she demanded . 
Where is my family ? he cried , wildly . 
Your home ! she echoed . 
My home ! he half shrieked . 
I lived here , I tell you . 
You must be mistaken , she answered him . 
No one ever lived here . 
This is a new house . 
They What have they done with my family ? shouted Jurgis , frantically . 
A light had begun to break upon the woman perhaps she had had doubts of what they had told her . 
I don't know where your family is , she said . 
I bought the house only three days ago , and there was nobody here , and they told me it was all new . 
Do you really mean you had ever rented it ? Rented it ! panted Jurgis . 
Jurgis' brain was so confused that he could not grasp the situation . 
It was as if his family had been wiped out of existence as if they were proving to be dream people , who never had existed at all . 
He was quite lost but then suddenly he thought of Grandmother Majauszkiene , who lived in the next block . 
She would know ! He turned and started at a run . 
Grandmother Majauszkiene came to the door herself . 
She cried out when she saw Jurgis , wild eyed and shaking . 
Yes , yes , she could tell him . 
Wouldn't Jurgis come in and rest ? It was certainly too bad if only he had not got into jail And so Jurgis turned and staggered away . 
Ah ! they had cast their all into the fight and they had lost , they had lost ! All that they had paid was gone every cent of it . 
It might be that he had worse things yet to learn and so he got to his feet and started away , walking on , wearily , half dazed . 
He ran up the steps and began to hammer upon the door . 
The old woman herself came to open it . 
She had shrunk all up with her rheumatism since Jurgis had seen her last , and her yellow parchment face stared up at him from a little above the level of the doorknob . 
She gave a start when she saw him . 
Is Ona here ? he cried , breathlessly . 
Yes , was the answer , she's here . 
How Jurgis began , and then stopped short , clutching convulsively at the side of the door . 
From somewhere within the house had come a sudden cry , a wild , horrible scream of anguish . 
And the voice was Ona's . 
For a moment Jurgis stood half paralyzed with fright then he bounded past the old woman and into the room . 
It was Aniele's kitchen , and huddled round the stove were half a dozen women , pale and frightened . 
One of them started to her feet as Jurgis entered she was haggard and frightfully thin , with one arm tied up in bandages he hardly realized that it was Marija . 
He looked first for Ona then , not seeing her , he stared at the women , expecting them to speak . 
But they sat dumb , gazing back at him , panic stricken and a second later came another piercing scream . 
It was from the rear of the house , and upstairs . 
She seized him by the sleeve with her good hand , panting wildly , No , no , Jurgis ! Stop ! What do you mean ? he gasped . 
You mustn't go up , she cried . 
Jurgis was half crazed with bewilderment and fright . 
What's the matter ? he shouted . 
What is it ? Marija clung to him tightly he could hear Ona sobbing and moaning above , and he fought to get away and climb up , without waiting for her reply . 
No , no , she rushed on . 
Jurgis ! You mustn't go up ! It's it's the child ! The child ? he echoed in perplexity . 
Antanas ? Marija answered him , in a whisper The new one ! And then Jurgis went limp , and caught himself on the ladder . 
He stared at her as if she were a ghost . 
The new one ! he gasped . 
But it isn't time , he added , wildly . 
I know , she said but it's come . 
And then again came Ona's scream , smiting him like a blow in the face , making him wince and turn white . 
It was as if the pillars of his soul had fallen in he was blasted with horror . 
In the room he sank into a chair , trembling like a leaf , Marija still holding him , and the women staring at him in dumb , helpless fright . 
And then again Ona cried out he could hear it nearly as plainly here , and he staggered to his feet . 
How long has this been going on ? he panted . 
Not very long , Marija answered , and then , at a signal from Aniele , she rushed on You go away , Jurgis you can't help go away and come back later . 
It's all right it's Who's with her ? Jurgis demanded and then , seeing Marija hesitating , he cried again , Who's with her ? She's she's all right , she answered . 
But the doctor ! he panted . 
Some one who knows ! He seized Marija by the arm she trembled , and her voice sank beneath a whisper as she replied , We we have no money . 
It was all new to him , raw and horrible it had fallen upon him like a lightning stroke . 
When little Antanas was born he had been at work , and had known nothing about it until it was over and now he was not to be controlled . 
The frightened women were at their wits' end one after another they tried to reason with him , to make him understand that this was the lot of woman . 
In the end they half drove him out into the rain , where he began to pace up and down , bareheaded and frantic . 
Because he could hear Ona from the street , he would first go away to escape the sounds , and then come back because he could not help it . 
There was no arguing with him . 
We had no money we have scarcely been able to keep alive . 
But I can work , Jurgis exclaimed . 
I can earn money ! Yes , she answered but we thought you were in jail . 
How could we know when you would return ? They will not work for nothing . 
Marija went on to tell how she had tried to find a midwife , and how they had demanded ten , fifteen , even twenty five dollars , and that in cash . 
And I had only a quarter , she said . 
And we owe Aniele for two weeks' rent , and she is nearly starving , and is afraid of being turned out . 
We have been borrowing and begging to keep alive , and there is nothing more we can do And the children ? cried Jurgis . 
The children have not been home for three days , the weather has been so bad . 
They could not know what is happening it came suddenly , two months before we expected it . 
Jurgis was standing by the table , and he caught himself with his hand his head sank and his arms shook it looked as if he were going to collapse . 
Then suddenly Aniele got up and came hobbling toward him , fumbling in her skirt pocket . 
She drew out a dirty rag , in one corner of which she had something tied . 
Here , Jurgis ! she said , I have some money . 
Palauk ! See ! She unwrapped it and counted it out thirty four cents . 
You go , now , she said , and try and get somebody yourself . 
When he comes back , maybe it will be over . 
And so the other women turned out the contents of their pocketbooks most of them had only pennies and nickels , but they gave him all . 
Then Jurgis thrust it into his pocket , still holding it tightly in his fist , and started away at a run . 
Jurgis went up them , three at a time . 
Madame Haupt was frying pork and onions , and had her door half open to let out the smoke . 
Then he knocked louder , and she started and put it away . 
She was a Dutchwoman , enormously fat when she walked she rolled like a small boat on the ocean , and the dishes in the cupboard jostled each other . 
She wore a filthy blue wrapper , and her teeth were black . 
Vot is it ? she said , when she saw Jurgis . 
He had run like mad all the way and was so out of breath he could hardly speak . 
His hair was flying and his eyes wild he looked like a man that had risen from the tomb . 
My wife ! he panted . 
Come quickly ! Madame Haupt set the frying pan to one side and wiped her hands on her wrapper . 
You vant me to come for a case ? she inquired . 
I haf yust come back from a case , she said . 
I haf had no time to eat my dinner . 
Still if it is so bad Yes it is ! cried he . 
Vell , den , perhaps vot you pay ? I I how much do you want ? Jurgis stammered . 
I can't pay that , he said . 
The woman was watching him narrowly . 
How much do you pay ? she demanded . 
Must I pay now right away ? Yes all my customers do . 
I I haven't much money , Jurgis began in an agony of dread . 
I've been in in trouble and my money is gone . 
But I'll pay you every cent just as soon as I can I can work Vot is your work ? I have no place now . 
But I How much haf you got now ? He could hardly bring himself to reply . 
When he said A dollar and a quarter , the woman laughed in his face . 
I vould not put on my hat for a dollar and a quarter , she said . 
It's all I've got , he pleaded , his voice breaking . 
I must get some one my wife will die . 
I can't help it I Madame Haupt had put back her pork and onions on the stove . 
She turned to him and answered , out of the steam and noise Git me ten dollars cash , und so you can pay me the rest next mont' . 
I can't do it I haven't got it ! Jurgis protested . 
I tell you I have only a dollar and a quarter . 
The woman turned to her work . 
I don't believe you , she said . 
Dot is all to try to sheat me . 
Vere is your friends , dot ought to help you ? They are all poor , he answered . 
I have done everything I can Haven't you got notting you can sell ? I have nothing , I tell you I have nothing , he cried , frantically . 
I vill save your wife und baby for you , and it vill not seem like mooch to you in de end . 
He flung up his hands with a gesture of despair and turned and started away . 
It's no use , he exclaimed but suddenly he heard the woman's voice behind him again I vill make it five dollars for you . 
She followed behind him , arguing with him . 
You vill be foolish not to take such an offer , she said . 
You von't find nobody go out on a rainy day like dis for less . 
Vy , I haf never took a case in my life so sheap as dot . 
I couldn't pay mine room rent Jurgis interrupted her with an oath of rage . 
I haven't got it ! Do you hear me I haven't got it ! He turned and started away again . 
He was halfway down the stairs before Madame Haupt could shout to him Vait ! I vill go mit you ! Come back ! He went back into the room again . 
It is not goot to tink of anybody suffering , she said , in a melancholy voice . 
I might as vell go mit you for noffing as vot you offer me , but I vill try to help you . 
How far is it ? Three or four blocks from here . 
Some time dis mont' ? Yes , within a month , said poor Jurgis . 
Anything ! Hurry up ! Vere is de dollar und a quarter ? persisted Madame Haupt , relentlessly . 
Jurgis put the money on the table and the woman counted it and stowed it away . 
She took off her wrapper without even taking the trouble to turn her back to Jurgis , and put on her corsets and dress . 
When they were on the street he kept about four paces ahead of her , turning now and then , as if he could hurry her on by the force of his desire . 
But Madame Haupt could only go so far at a step , and it took all her attention to get the needed breath for that . 
They came at last to the house , and to the group of frightened women in the kitchen . 
Then they escorted her to the ladder , and Jurgis heard her give an exclamation of dismay . 
Gott in Himmel , vot for haf you brought me to a place like dis ? I could not climb up dot ladder . 
I could not git troo a trap door ! I vill not try it vy , I might kill myself already . 
As it was half dark up above , perhaps one of the others had best go up first with a candle . 
Then suddenly Aniele came to him and took him by the arm . 
Now , she said , you go away . 
Do as I tell you you have done all you can , and you are only in the way . 
Go away and stay away . 
But where shall I go ? Jurgis asked , helplessly . 
I don't know where , she answered . 
It was just about sundown , and it was turning cold the rain had changed to snow , and the slush was freezing . 
Jurgis shivered in his thin clothing , and put his hands into his pockets and started away . 
They might have mercy on him there , or he might meet a friend . 
He set out for the place as fast as he could walk . 
Hello , Jack , said the saloonkeeper , when he entered they call all foreigners and unskilled men Jack in Packingtown . 
Where've you been ? Jurgis went straight to the bar . 
I've been in jail , he said , and I've just got out . 
I walked home all the way , and I've not a cent , and had nothing to eat since this morning . 
And I've lost my home , and my wife's ill , and I'm done up . 
The saloonkeeper gazed at him , with his haggard white face and his blue trembling lips . 
Then he pushed a big bottle toward him . 
Fill her up ! he said . 
Jurgis could hardly hold the bottle , his hands shook so . 
It was too good to last , however like all things in this hard world . 
His soaked clothing began to steam , and the horrible stench of fertilizer to fill the room . 
In an hour or so the packing houses would be closing and the men coming in from their work and they would not come into a place that smelt of Jurgis . 
The saloon keeper coughed once or twice , and then remarked , Say , Jack , I'm afraid you'll have to quit . 
He was used to the sight of human wrecks , this saloonkeeper he fired dozens of them every night , just as haggard and cold and forlorn as this one . 
But they were all men who had given up and been counted out , while Jurgis was still in the fight , and had reminders of decency about him . 
As he got up meekly , the other reflected that he had always been a steady man , and might soon be a good customer again . 
You've been up against it , I see , he said . 
In the rear of the saloon were the cellar stairs . 
So Jurgis spent the night . 
Hour after hour passed , until he could only persuade himself that it was not morning by the sounds of music and laughter and singing that were to be heard from the room . 
When at last these ceased , he expected that he would be turned out into the street as this did not happen , he fell to wondering whether the man had forgotten him . 
He was keeping open all night , and dozing between customers . 
I want to go home , Jurgis said . 
I'm worried about my wife I can't wait any longer . 
Why the hell didn't you say so before ? said the man . 
I thought you didn't have any home to go to . 
It was four o'clock in the morning , and as black as night . 
There were three or four inches of fresh snow on the ground , and the flakes were falling thick and fast . 
He turned toward Aniele's and started at a run . 
There was a light burning in the kitchen window and the blinds were drawn . 
The door was unlocked and Jurgis rushed in . 
No one answered him , they sat staring at him with their pale faces . 
He cried again Well ? And then , by the light of the smoky lamp , he saw Marija who sat nearest him , shaking her head slowly . 
Not yet , she said . 
And Jurgis gave a cry of dismay . 
Not yet ? Again Marija's head shook . 
The poor fellow stood dumfounded . 
I don't hear her , he gasped . 
She's been quiet a long time , replied the other . 
There was another pause broken suddenly by a voice from the attic Hello , there ! Several of the women ran into the next room , while Marija sprang toward Jurgis . 
Wait here ! she cried , and the two stood , pale and trembling , listening . 
In a few moments it became clear that Madame Haupt was engaged in descending the ladder , scolding and exhorting again , while the ladder creaked in protest . 
In a moment or two she reached the ground , angry and breathless , and they heard her coming into the room . 
Jurgis gave one glance at her , and then turned white and reeled . 
She had her jacket off , like one of the workers on the killing beds . 
Her hands and arms were smeared with blood , and blood was splashed upon her clothing and her face . 
She stood breathing hard , and gazing about her no one made a sound . 
I haf done my best , she began suddenly . 
I can do noffing more dere is no use to try . 
It ain't my fault , she said . 
You had ought to haf had a doctor , und not vaited so long it vas too late already ven I come . 
Once more there was deathlike stillness . 
Marija was clutching Jurgis with all the power of her one well arm . 
Then suddenly Madame Haupt turned to Aniele . 
You haf not got something to drink , hey ? she queried . 
Some brandy ? Aniele shook her head . 
Herr Gott ! exclaimed Madame Haupt . 
Such people ! Perhaps you vill give me someting to eat den I haf had noffing since yesterday morning , und I haf vorked myself near to death here . 
If I could haf known it vas like dis , I vould never haf come for such money as you gif me . 
At this moment she chanced to look round , and saw Jurgis She shook her finger at him . 
You understand me , she said , you pays me dot money yust de same ! It is not my fault dat you send for me so late I can't help your vife . 
It is not my fault if der baby comes mit one arm first , so dot I can't save it . 
How do you tink she can be ven you leave her to kill herself so ? I told dem dot ven they send for de priest . 
She is young , und she might haf got over it , und been vell und strong , if she had been treated right . 
She fight hard , dot girl she is not yet quite dead . 
And Jurgis gave a frantic scream . 
Dead ! She vill die , of course , said the other angrily . 
Der baby is dead now . 
The garret was lighted by a candle stuck upon a board it had almost burned itself out , and was sputtering and smoking as Jurgis rushed up the ladder . 
In a far corner crouched Elzbieta , moaning and wailing . 
Upon the pallet lay Ona . 
Her eyelids were closed , and she lay still as death . 
He staggered toward her and fell upon his knees with a cry of anguish Ona ! Ona ! She did not stir . 
One instant she looked at him there was a flash of recognition between them , he saw her afar off , as through a dim vista , standing forlorn . 
But it was all in vain she faded from him , she slipped back and was gone . 
And a wail of anguish burst from him , great sobs shook all his frame , and hot tears ran down his cheeks and fell upon her . 
He was inconsolable , beside himself the priest came and laid his hand upon his shoulder and whispered to him , but he heard not a sound . 
He was gone away himself , stumbling through the shadows , and groping after the soul that had fled . 
The gray dawn came up and crept into the attic . 
The priest left , the women left , and he was alone with the still , white figure quieter now , but moaning and shuddering , wrestling with the grisly fiend . 
Now and then he would raise himself and stare at the white mask before him , then hide his eyes because he could not bear it . 
More of the neighbors had come in , and they stared at him in silence as he sank down upon a chair by the table and buried his face in his arms . 
A few minutes later the front door opened a blast of cold and snow rushed in , and behind it little Kotrina , breathless from running , and blue with the cold . 
I'm home again ! she exclaimed . 
I could hardly And then , seeing Jurgis , she stopped with an exclamation . 
Where have you been ? he demanded . 
Selling papers with the boys , she said . 
The snow Have you any money ? he demanded . 
How much ? Nearly three dollars , Jurgis . 
Kotrina , frightened by his manner , glanced at the others . 
Give it to me ! he commanded again , and she put her hand into her pocket and pulled out a lump of coins tied in a bit of rag . 
Jurgis took it without a word , and went out of the door and down the street . 
Three doors away was a saloon . 
Whisky , he said , as he entered , and as the man pushed him some , he tore at the rag with his teeth and pulled out half a dollar . 
How much is the bottle ? he said . 
I want to get drunk . 
Chapter But a big man cannot stay drunk very long on three dollars . 
Ona was not yet buried but the police had been notified , and on the morrow they would put the body in a pine coffin and take it to the potter's field . 
So spoke Aniele , scornfully , and when he started toward the fire she added the information that her kitchen was no longer for him to fill with his phosphate stinks . 
Jurgis went without a word , and , stepping over half a dozen sleeping boarders in the next room , ascended the ladder . 
It was dark up above they could not afford any light also it was nearly as cold as outdoors . 
In a corner , as far away from the corpse as possible , sat Marija , holding little Antanas in her one good arm and trying to soothe him to sleep . 
In another corner crouched poor little Juozapas , wailing because he had had nothing to eat all day . 
Marija said not a word to Jurgis he crept in like a whipped cur , and went and sat down by the body . 
He shed no tears , being ashamed to make a sound he sat motionless and shuddering with his anguish . 
And she had suffered so cruelly she had suffered , such agonies , such infamies ah , God , the memory of them was not to be borne . 
Late at night came Elzbieta , having gotten the money for a mass , and paid for it in advance , lest she should be tempted too sorely at home . 
She brought also a bit of stale rye bread that some one had given her , and with that they quieted the children and got them to sleep . 
Then she came over to Jurgis and sat down beside him . 
She said not a word of reproach she and Marija had chosen that course before she would only plead with him , here by the corpse of his dead wife . 
Already Elzbieta had choked down her tears , grief being crowded out of her soul by fear . 
She did this because it was her nature she asked no questions about the justice of it , nor the worth whileness of life in which destruction and death ran riot . 
And this old common sense view she labored to impress upon Jurgis , pleading with him with tears in her eyes . 
Ona was dead , but the others were left and they must be saved . 
She did not ask for her own children . 
She and Marija could care for them somehow , but there was Antanas , his own son . 
Ona had given Antanas to him the little fellow was the only remembrance of her that he had he must treasure it and protect it , he must show himself a man . 
He knew what Ona would have had him do , what she would ask of him at this moment , if she could speak to him . 
It was a terrible thing that she should have died as she had but the life had been too hard for her , and she had to go . 
It was terrible that they were not able to bury her , that he could not even have a day to mourn her but so it was . 
Their fate was pressing they had not a cent , and the children would perish some money must be had . 
So Elzbieta went on , with feverish intensity . 
But with Ona's dead body beneath his eyes , Jurgis could not well think of treason to his child . 
Yes , he said , he would try , for the sake of Antanas . 
He would give the little fellow his chance would get to work at once , yes , tomorrow , without even waiting for Ona to be buried . 
They might trust him , he would keep his word , come what might . 
And so he was out before daylight the next morning , headache , heartache , and all . 
He went straight to Graham's fertilizer mill , to see if he could get back his job . 
But the boss shook his head when he saw him no , his place had been filled long ago , and there was no room for him . 
Do you think there will be ? Jurgis asked . 
I may have to wait . 
No , said the other , it will not be worth your while to wait there will be nothing for you here . 
Jurgis stood gazing at him in perplexity . 
What is the matter ? he asked . 
Didn't I do my work ? The other met his look with one of cold indifference , and answered , There will be nothing for you here , I said . 
Jurgis had his suspicions as to the dreadful meaning of that incident , and he went away with a sinking at the heart . 
He went and took his stand with the mob of hungry wretches who were standing about in the snow before the time station . 
Here he stayed , breakfastless , for two hours , until the throng was driven away by the clubs of the police . 
There was no work for him that day . 
Meantime , Teta Elzbieta would go and beg , over in the Hyde Park district , and the children would bring home enough to pacify Aniele , and keep them all alive . 
He saw a foreman passing the open doorway , and hailed him for a job . 
Push a truck ? inquired the man , and Jurgis answered , Yes , sir ! before the words were well out of his mouth . 
What's your name ? demanded the other . 
Worked in the yards before ? Yes . 
Whereabouts ? Two places Brown's killing beds and Durham's fertilizer mill . 
Why did you leave there ? The first time I had an accident , and the last time I was sent up for a month . 
Well , I'll give you a trial . 
Come early tomorrow and ask for Mr. Thomas . 
So Jurgis rushed home with the wild tidings that he had a job that the terrible siege was over . 
The remnants of the family had quite a celebration that night and in the morning Jurgis was at the place half an hour before the time of opening . 
The foreman came in shortly afterward , and when he saw Jurgis he frowned . 
Oh , he said , I promised you a job , didn't I ? Yes , sir , said Jurgis . 
Well , I'm sorry , but I made a mistake . 
What's the matter ? he gasped . 
Nothing , said the man , only I can't use you . 
There was the same cold , hostile stare that he had had from the boss of the fertilizer mill . 
He knew that there was no use in saying a word , and he turned and went away . 
Why had he wasted his time hunting ? They had him on a secret list in every office , big and little , in the place . 
They had his name by this time in St . 
Louis and New York , in Omaha and Boston , in Kansas City and St . 
He might try it , if he chose , as hundreds had tried it , and found out for themselves . 
It would not do for him to give any other name , either they had company spotters for just that purpose , and he wouldn't keep a job in Packingtown three days . 
It was worth a fortune to the packers to keep their blacklist effective , as a warning to the men and a means of keeping down union agitation and political discontent . 
Jurgis went home , carrying these new tidings to the family council . 
There was nothing in Packingtown but packing houses and so it was the same thing as evicting him from his home . 
He and the two women spent all day and half the night discussing it . 
Then , too , Elzbieta had heard something about a chance to scrub floors in Durham's offices and was waiting every day for word . 
In the end it was decided that Jurgis should go downtown to strike out for himself , and they would decide after he got a job . 
So for two weeks more Jurgis fought with the demon of despair . 
Once he got a chance to load a truck for half a day , and again he carried an old woman's valise and was given a quarter . 
This , however , was really not the advantage it seemed , for the newspaper advertisements were a cause of much loss of precious time and of many weary journeys . 
A full half of these were fakes , put in by the endless variety of establishments which preyed upon the helpless ignorance of the unemployed . 
In the end Jurgis got a chance through an accidental meeting with an old time acquaintance of his union days . 
So Jurgis trudged four or five miles , and passed through a waiting throng of unemployed at the gate under the escort of his friend . 
His knees nearly gave way beneath him when the foreman , after looking him over and questioning him , told him that he could find an opening for him . 
How much this accident meant to Jurgis he realized only by stages for he found that the harvester works were the sort of place to which philanthropists and reformers pointed with pride . 
Day after day Jurgis discovered these things things never expected nor dreamed of by him until this new place came to seem a kind of a heaven to him . 
This was piece work , of course and besides it was made certain that the boy did not idle , by setting the machine to match the highest possible speed of human hands . 
Thirty thousand of these pieces he handled every day , nine or ten million every year how many in a lifetime it rested with the gods to say . 
One of these men told Jurgis that he had sharpened three thousand pieces of steel a day for thirteen years . 
From yet another machine came tens of thousands of steel burs to fit upon these bolts . 
Jurgis's friend worked upstairs in the casting rooms , and his task was to make the molds of a certain part . 
He shoveled black sand into an iron receptacle and pounded it tight and set it aside to harden then it would be taken out , and molten iron poured into it . 
This man , too , was paid by the mold or rather for perfect castings , nearly half his work going for naught . 
Then they were piled upon a truck , and it was Jurgis's task to wheel them to the room where the machines were assembled . 
This last was a great blessing . 
These , however , were all slight matters to a man who had escaped from Durham's fertilizer mill . 
Jurgis began to pick up heart again and to make plans . 
He had lost his house but then the awful load of the rent and interest was off his shoulders , and when Marija was well again they could start over and save . 
In the shop where he worked was a man , a Lithuanian like himself , whom the others spoke of in admiring whispers , because of the mighty feats he was performing . 
All day he sat at a machine turning bolts and then in the evening he went to the public school to study English and learn to read . 
Jurgis felt jealous of this fellow for that was the sort of thing he himself had dreamed of , two or three years ago . 
He might do it even yet , if he had a fair chance he might attract attention and become a skilled man or a boss , as some had done in this place . 
Suppose that Marija could get a job in the big mill where they made binder twine then they would move into this neighborhood , and he would really have a chance . 
He did not drink anything , because Elzbieta got his money for safekeeping , and knew him too well to be in the least frightened by his angry demands . 
Also Madame Haupt , the midwife , was after him for some money . 
So he went out once more . 
For another ten days he roamed the streets and alleys of the huge city , sick and hungry , begging for any work . 
There were often one or two chances but there were always a hundred men for every chance , and his turn would not come . 
Then Jurgis fought like a wild beast to get into the big Harrison Street police station , and slept down in a corridor , crowded with two other men upon a single step . 
He had to fight often in these days to fight for a place near the factory gates , and now and again with gangs on the street . 
They always had the policeman squared , and so there was no use in expecting protection . 
That Jurgis did not starve to death was due solely to the pittance the children brought him . 
And even this was never certain . 
For one thing the cold was almost more than the children could bear and then they , too , were in perpetual peril from rivals who plundered and beat them . 
At last , on a Sunday , as there was no use looking for work , Jurgis went home by stealing rides on the cars . 
He found that they had been waiting for him for three days there was a chance of a job for him . 
It was quite a story . 
Little Juozapas , who was near crazy with hunger these days , had gone out on the street to beg for himself . 
He had fallen in with some other children and found the way to Mike Scully's dump , which lay three or four blocks away . 
Little Juozapas gorged himself , and came home with a newspaper full , which he was feeding to Antanas when his mother came in . 
Elzbieta was horrified , for she did not believe that the food out of the dumps was fit to eat . 
The next day , however , when no harm came of it and Juozapas began to cry with hunger , she gave in and said that he might go again . 
And that afternoon he came home with a story of how while he had been digging away with a stick , a lady upon the street had called him . 
In the end she had asked where he lived , and said that she was coming to see him , and bring him a new crutch to walk with . 
She had on a hat with a bird upon it , Juozapas added , and a long fur snake around her neck . 
She was a settlement worker , she explained to Elzbieta she lived around on Ashland Avenue . 
They were rich people who came to live there to find out about the poor people but what good they expected it would do them to know , one could not imagine . 
Poor Elzbieta was ashamed of herself for having told so woeful a tale , and the other had to beg and plead with her to get her to go on . 
He will get Jurgis something to do , the young lady had said , and added , smiling through her tears If he doesn't , he will never marry me . 
The steel works were fifteen miles away , and as usual it was so contrived that one had to pay two fares to get there . 
Far and wide the sky was flaring with the red glare that leaped from rows of towering chimneys for it was pitch dark when Jurgis arrived . 
The vast works , a city in themselves , were surrounded by a stockade and already a full hundred men were waiting at the gate where new hands were taken on . 
Jurgis presented his precious letter . 
The great mills were getting under way one could hear a vast stirring , a rolling and rumbling and hammering . 
On one side of the grounds ran a railroad with a dozen tracks , and on the other side lay the lake , where steamers came to load . 
Jurgis had time enough to stare and speculate , for it was two hours before he was summoned . 
He went into the office building , where a company timekeeper interviewed him . 
would try to find Jurgis a job . 
He had never worked in a steel mill before ? But he was ready for anything ? Well , then , they would go and see . 
So they began a tour , among sights that made Jurgis stare amazed . 
He was taken to the Bessemer furnace , where they made billets of steel a domelike building , the size of a big theater . 
Liquid fire would leap from these caldrons and scatter like bombs below and men were working there , seeming careless , so that Jurgis caught his breath with fright . 
Incandescent rainbows shone above it , blue , red , and golden lights played about it but the stream itself was white , ineffable . 
Then the great caldron tilted back again , empty , and Jurgis saw to his relief that no one was hurt , and turned and followed his guide out into the sunlight . 
They went through the blast furnaces , through rolling mills where bars of steel were tossed about and chopped like bits of cheese . 
So amid deafening uproar it clattered to and fro , growing thinner and flatter and longer . 
There was no rest for it until it was cold and black and then it needed only to be cut and straightened to be ready for a railroad . 
It was at the end of this rail's progress that Jurgis got his chance . 
They had to be moved by men with crowbars , and the boss here could use another man . 
So he took off his coat and set to work on the spot . 
It took him two hours to get to this place every day and cost him a dollar and twenty cents a week . 
He got his meals at free lunch counters , and every Saturday night he went home bedding and all and took the greater part of his money to the family . 
In a week Jurgis got over his sense of helplessness and bewilderment in the rail mill . 
He learned to find his way about and to take all the miracles and terrors for granted , to work without hearing the rumbling and crashing . 
There was a row of brick furnaces , shining white through every crack with the molten steel inside . 
Some of these were bulging dangerously , yet men worked before them , wearing blue glasses when they opened and shut the doors . 
One morning as Jurgis was passing , a furnace blew out , spraying two men with a shower of liquid fire . 
The company doctor bandaged it up , but he got no other thanks from any one , and was laid up for eight working days without any pay . 
Most fortunately , at this juncture , Elzbieta got the long awaited chance to go at five o'clock in the morning and help scrub the office floors of one of the packers . 
Jurgis came home and covered himself with blankets to keep warm , and divided his time between sleeping and playing with little Antanas . 
Juozapas was away raking in the dump a good part of the time , and Elzbieta and Marija were hunting for more work . 
Antanas was now over a year and a half old , and was a perfect talking machine . 
He learned so fast that every week when Jurgis came home it seemed to him as if he had a new child . 
Thank God , Antanas was a boy ! And he was as tough as a pine knot , and with the appetite of a wolf . 
Nothing had hurt him , and nothing could hurt him he had come through all the suffering and deprivation unscathed only shriller voiced and more determined in his grip upon life . 
He was a terrible child to manage , was Antanas , but his father did not mind that he would watch him and smile to himself with satisfaction . 
The more of a fighter he was the better he would need to fight before he got through . 
Among other things , these papers had pages full of comical pictures , and these were the main joy in life to little Antanas . 
And then , when he was able to use his hands , Jurgis took his bedding again and went back to his task of shifting rails . 
It was now April , and the snow had given place to cold rains , and the unpaved street in front of Aniele's house was turned into a canal . 
Jurgis would have to wade through it to get home , and if it was late he might easily get stuck to his waist in the mire . 
But he did not mind this much it was a promise that summer was coming . 
So once more Jurgis began to make plans and dream dreams . 
There was a rainbow in the sky , and another in his breast for he had thirty six hours' rest before him , and a chance to see his family . 
Then suddenly he came in sight of the house , and noticed that there was a crowd before the door . 
He ran up the steps and pushed his way in , and saw Aniele's kitchen crowded with excited women . 
It reminded him so vividly of the time when he had come home from jail and found Ona dying , that his heart almost stood still . 
What's the matter ? he cried . 
A dead silence had fallen in the room , and he saw that every one was staring at him . 
What's the matter ? he exclaimed again . 
And then , up in the garret , he heard sounds of wailing , in Marija's voice . 
He started for the ladder and Aniele seized him by the arm . 
No , no ! she exclaimed . 
Don't go up there ! What is it ? he shouted . 
And the old woman answered him weakly It's Antanas . 
He was drowned out in the street ! Chapter Jurgis took the news in a peculiar way . 
He turned deadly pale , but he caught himself , and for half a minute stood in the middle of the room , clenching his hands tightly and setting his teeth . 
Then he pushed Aniele aside and strode into the next room and climbed the ladder . 
In the corner was a blanket , with a form half showing beneath it and beside it lay Elzbieta , whether crying or in a faint , Jurgis could not tell . 
Marija was pacing the room , screaming and wringing her hands . 
He clenched his hands tighter yet , and his voice was hard as he spoke . 
How did it happen ? he asked . 
Marija scarcely heard him in her agony . 
He repeated the question , louder and yet more harshly . 
He fell off the sidewalk ! she wailed . 
The sidewalk in front of the house was a platform made of half rotten boards , about five feet above the level of the sunken street . 
How did he come to be there ? he demanded . 
He went he went out to play , Marija sobbed , her voice choking her . 
We couldn't make him stay in . 
He must have got caught in the mud ! Are you sure that he is dead ? he demanded . 
Ai ! ai ! she wailed . 
Yes we had the doctor . 
Then Jurgis stood a few seconds , wavering . 
He did not shed a tear . 
He took one glance more at the blanket with the little form beneath it , and then turned suddenly to the ladder and climbed down again . 
A silence fell once more in the room as he entered . 
He went straight to the door , passed out , and started down the street . 
When his wife had died , Jurgis made for the nearest saloon , but he did not do that now , though he had his week's wages in his pocket . 
He walked and walked , seeing nothing , splashing through mud and water . 
Later on he sat down upon a step and hid his face in his hands and for half an hour or so he did not move . 
Now and then he would whisper to himself Dead ! Dead ! Finally , he got up and walked on again . 
It was about sunset , and he went on and on until it was dark , when he was stopped by a railroad crossing . 
The gates were down , and a long train of freight cars was thundering by . 
He stood and watched it and all at once a wild impulse seized him , a thought that had been lurking within him , unspoken , unrecognized , leaped into sudden life . 
He started down the track , and when he was past the gate keeper's shanty he sprang forward and swung himself on to one of the cars . 
By and by the train stopped again , and Jurgis sprang down and ran under the car , and hid himself upon the truck . 
Here he sat , and when the train started again , he fought a battle with his soul . 
It should go like a black , hateful nightmare , and in the morning he would be a new man . 
And every time that a thought of it assailed him a tender memory , a trace of a tear he rose up , cursing with rage , and pounded it down . 
He was fighting for his life he gnashed his teeth together in his desperation . 
He was glad that the end had come it had to come some time , and it was just as well now . 
This was no world for women and children , and the sooner they got out of it the better for them . 
Whatever Antanas might suffer where he was , he could suffer no more than he would have had he stayed upon earth . 
Whenever the cars stopped a warm breeze blew upon him , a breeze laden with the perfume of fresh fields , of honeysuckle and clover . 
At last he could stand it no longer , and when the train stopped again he crawled out . 
Upon the top of the car was a brakeman , who shook his fist and swore Jurgis waved his hand derisively , and started across the country . 
Then he came to a farm house , and after getting himself a stick for protection , he approached it . 
The farmer was greasing a wagon in front of the barn , and Jurgis went to him . 
I would like to get some breakfast , please , he said . 
Do you want to work ? said the farmer . 
Then you can't get anything here , snapped the other . 
I meant to pay for it , said Jurgis . 
Oh , said the farmer and then added sarcastically , We don't serve breakfast after A. M. I am very hungry , said Jurgis gravely I would like to buy some food . 
Ask the woman , said the farmer , nodding over his shoulder . 
The woman was more tractable , and for a dime Jurgis secured two thick sandwiches and a piece of pie and two apples . 
He walked off eating the pie , as the least convenient thing to carry . 
In a few minutes he came to a stream , and he climbed a fence and walked down the bank , along a woodland path . 
By and by he found a comfortable spot , and there he devoured his meal , slaking his thirst at the stream . 
Then he lay for hours , just gazing and drinking in joy until at last he felt sleepy , and lay down in the shade of a bush . 
When he awoke the sun was shining hot in his face . 
He sat up and stretched his arms , and then gazed at the water sliding by . 
There was a deep pool , sheltered and silent , below him , and a sudden wonderful idea rushed upon him . 
Afterward he sat down in the water near the bank , and proceeded to scrub himself soberly and methodically , scouring every inch of him with sand . 
While he was doing it he would do it thoroughly , and see how it felt to be clean . 
He hung them all up , and while they were drying he lay down in the sun and had another long sleep . 
They were hot and stiff as boards on top , and a little damp on the underside , when he awakened but being hungry , he put them on and set out again . 
He had no knife , but with some labor he broke himself a good stout club , and , armed with this , he marched down the road again . 
Before long he came to a big farmhouse , and turned up the lane that led to it . 
It was just suppertime , and the farmer was washing his hands at the kitchen door . 
Please , sir , said Jurgis , can I have something to eat ? I can pay . 
To which the farmer responded promptly , We don't feed tramps here . 
That was his answer , and it showed his mood from now on he was fighting , and the man who hit him would get all that he gave , every time . 
Beyond the orchard Jurgis struck through a patch of woods , and then a field of winter grain , and came at last to another road . 
Before long he saw another farmhouse , and , as it was beginning to cloud over a little , he asked here for shelter as well as food . 
Seeing the farmer eying him dubiously , he added , I'll be glad to sleep in the barn . 
Well , I dunno , said the other . 
Do you smoke ? Sometimes , said Jurgis , but I'll do it out of doors . 
When the man had assented , he inquired , How much will it cost me ? I haven't very much money . 
I reckon about twenty cents for supper , replied the farmer . 
I won't charge ye for the barn . 
So Jurgis went in , and sat down at the table with the farmer's wife and half a dozen children . 
Jurgis had not had such a feast since his wedding day , and he made a mighty effort to put in his twenty cents' worth . 
They were all of them too hungry to talk but afterward they sat upon the steps and smoked , and the farmer questioned his guest . 
I'll pay ye good , said the other , eying his big form a dollar a day and board ye . 
Help's terrible scarce round here . 
Is that winter as well as summer ? Jurgis demanded quickly . 
N no , said the farmer I couldn't keep ye after November I ain't got a big enough place for that . 
I see , said the other , that's what I thought . 
It ain't quite the same , the farmer answered , seeing the point . 
There ought to be work a strong fellow like you can find to do , in the cities , or some place , in the winter time . 
How about when your money's gone ? he inquired , finally . 
You'll have to , then , won't you ? Wait till she's gone , said Jurgis then I'll see . 
Then Jurgis bade farewell , and went on his way . 
Such was the beginning of his life as a tramp . 
It was seldom he got as fair treatment as from this last farmer , and so as time went on he learned to shun the houses and to prefer sleeping in the fields . 
Jurgis was not the mighty man he had once been , but his arms were still good , and there were few farm dogs he needed to hit more than once . 
Twice he even managed to capture a chicken , and had a feast , once in a deserted barn and the other time in a lonely spot alongside of a stream . 
When all of these things failed him he used his money carefully , but without worry for he saw that he could earn more whenever he chose . 
But Jurgis was not staying . 
He was a free man now , a buccaneer . 
The old wanderlust had got into his blood , the joy of the unbound life , the joy of seeking , of hoping without limit . 
Sometimes at night he would waken dreaming of Ona , and stretch out his arms to her , and wet the ground with his tears . 
But in the morning he would get up and shake himself , and stride away again to battle with the world . 
He never asked where he was nor where he was going the country was big enough , he knew , and there was no danger of his coming to the end of it . 
And of course he could always have company for the asking everywhere he went there were men living just as he lived , and whom he was welcome to join . 
They laughed at his ideas of paying for anything with money or with work for they got all they wanted without either . 
Now and then Jurgis camped out with a gang of them in some woodland haunt , and foraged with them in the neighborhood at night . 
And then among them some one would take a shine to him , and they would go off together and travel for a week , exchanging reminiscences . 
Of these professional tramps a great many had , of course , been shiftless and vicious all their lives . 
But the vast majority of them had been workingmen , had fought the long fight as Jurgis had , and found that it was a losing fight , and given up . 
They did not know that they were such , of course they only knew that they sought the job , and that the job was fleeting . 
In the early summer they would be in Texas , and as the crops were ready they would follow north with the season , ending with the fall in Manitoba . 
If there were more of them on hand than chanced to be needed , the weaker ones died off of cold and hunger , again according to the stern system of nature . 
It was in the latter part of July , when Jurgis was in Missouri , that he came upon the harvest work . 
Not that they did not pay them well any man could get two dollars a day and his board , and the best men could get two dollars and a half or three . 
The harvest fever was in the very air , and no man with any spirit in him could be in that region and not catch it . 
Jurgis joined a gang and worked from dawn till dark , eighteen hours a day , for two weeks without a break . 
In the van of the surplus labor army , there followed another , an army of women , they also struggling for life under the stern system of nature . 
Sometimes they came of themselves , and the saloon keepers shared with them or sometimes they were handled by agencies , the same as the labor army . 
In the morning Jurgis had not a cent , and he went out upon the road again . 
He was sick and disgusted , but after the new plan of his life , he crushed his feelings down . 
He had made a fool of himself , but he could not help it now all he could do was to see that it did not happen again . 
So he tramped on until exercise and fresh air banished his headache , and his strength and joy returned . 
This happened to him every time , for Jurgis was still a creature of impulse , and his pleasures had not yet become business . 
On the contrary , try as he would , Jurgis could not help being made miserable by his conscience . 
It was the ghost that would not down . 
It would come upon him in the most unexpected places sometimes it fairly drove him to drink . 
One night he was caught by a thunderstorm , and he sought shelter in a little house just outside of a town . 
He had no bed for him , but there was straw in the garret , and he could make out . 
The man's wife was cooking the supper , and their children were playing about on the floor . 
Jurgis sat and exchanged thoughts with him about the old country , and the places where they had been and the work they had done . 
Then they ate , and afterward sat and smoked and talked more about America , and how they found it . 
In the middle of a sentence , however , Jurgis stopped , seeing that the woman had brought a big basin of water and was proceeding to undress her youngest baby . 
The rest had crawled into the closet where they slept , but the baby was to have a bath , the workingman explained . 
The doctor had said she must bathe him every night , and she , foolish woman , believed him . 
Jurgis scarcely heard the explanation he was watching the baby . 
He was about a year old , and a sturdy little fellow , with soft fat legs , and a round ball of a stomach , and eyes as black as coals . 
When she put him into the basin he sat in the midst of it and grinned , splashing the water over himself and squealing like a little pig . 
He sat perfectly motionless , silent , but gripping his hands tightly , while a storm gathered in his bosom and a flood heaped itself up behind his eyes . 
And in the end he could bear it no more , but buried his face in his hands and burst into tears , to the alarm and amazement of his hosts . 
Between the shame of this and his woe Jurgis could not stand it , and got up and rushed out into the rain . 
He went on and on down the road , finally coming to a black woods , where he hid and wept as if his heart would break . 
When he reached the city he left the rest , for he had money and they did not , and he meant to save himself in this fight . 
He would bring to it all the skill that practice had brought him , and he would stand , whoever fell . 
He would have to bid farewell to his summer cleanliness , of course , for he would come out of the first night's lodging with his clothes alive with vermin . 
There was no place in the city where he could wash even his face , unless he went down to the lake front and there it would soon be all ice . 
First he went to the steel mill and the harvester works , and found that his places there had been filled long ago . 
He watched the newspapers , too but no longer was he to be taken in by smooth spoken agents . 
He had been told of all those tricks while on the road . 
In the end it was through a newspaper that he got a job , after nearly a month of seeking . 
It was a call for a hundred laborers , and though he thought it was a fake , he went because the place was near by . 
An hour or two later he entered a room and confronted a big Irishman behind a desk . 
Where do you come from ? Kansas City , sir . 
Any references ? No , sir . 
I'm just an unskilled man . 
I want men for hard work it's all underground , digging tunnels for telephones . 
Maybe it won't suit you . 
I'm willing , sir anything for me . 
What's the pay ? Fifteen cents an hour . 
All right go back there and give your name . 
So within half an hour he was at work , far underneath the streets of the city . 
The tunnel was a peculiar one for telephone wires it was about eight feet high , and with a level floor nearly as wide . 
It had innumerable branches a perfect spider web beneath the city Jurgis walked over half a mile with his gang to the place where they were to work . 
It was nearly a year afterward that he finally learned the meaning of this whole affair . 
In the city there was a combination of employers , representing hundreds of millions of capital , and formed for the purpose of crushing the labor unions . 
It was in a newly opened cut that Jurgis worked , and so he knew that he had an all winter job . 
This was one dollar a week , and for four more he got his food in a boardinghouse near his work . 
This would leave him four dollars extra each week , an unthinkable sum for him . 
He spent a week meditating whether or not he should also buy an overcoat . 
This was an unfortunate decision , however , for it drove him more quickly than ever into the saloons . 
From now on Jurgis worked from seven o'clock until half past five , with half an hour for dinner which meant that he never saw the sunlight on weekdays . 
He had now no home to go to he had no affection left in his life only the pitiful mockery of it in the camaraderie of vice . 
In a work thus carried out , not much thought was given to the welfare of the laborers . 
On an average , the tunneling cost a life a day and several manglings it was seldom , however , that more than a dozen or two men heard of any one accident . 
When he opened his eyes again it was to the clanging of the bell of an ambulance . 
He was lying in it , covered by a blanket , and it was threading its way slowly through the holiday shopping crowds . 
Jurgis spent his Christmas in this hospital , and it was the pleasantest Christmas he had had in America . 
Jurgis was ready to leave the hospital at the end of two weeks . 
He had less than seventy five cents in his pockets , and a dollar and a half due him for the day's work he had done before he was hurt . 
He might possibly have sued the company , and got some damages for his injuries , but he did not know this , and it was not the company's business to tell him . 
He went and got his pay and his tools , which he left in a pawnshop for fifty cents . 
Then he went to his landlady , who had rented his place and had no other for him and then to his boardinghouse keeper , who looked him over and questioned him . 
So Jurgis went out into the streets , in a most dreadful plight . 
It was bitterly cold , and a heavy snow was falling , beating into his face . 
Words could not paint the terror that came over him as he realized all this . 
He was like a wounded animal in the forest he was forced to compete with his enemies upon unequal terms . 
There would be no consideration for him because of his weakness it was no one's business to help him in such distress , to make the fight the least bit easier for him . 
Even if he took to begging , he would be at a disadvantage , for reasons which he was to discover in good time . 
In the beginning he could not think of anything except getting out of the awful cold . 
He went into one of the saloons he had been wont to frequent and bought a drink , and then stood by the fire shivering and waiting to be ordered out . 
According to an unwritten law , the buying a drink included the privilege of loafing for just so long then one had to buy another drink or move on . 
That Jurgis was an old customer entitled him to a somewhat longer stop but then he had been away two weeks , and was evidently on the bum . 
So Jurgis went out into another place , and paid another nickel . 
He was so hungry this time that he could not resist the hot beef stew , an indulgence which cut short his stay by a considerable time . 
It was Jurgis's vain hope that here the proprietor would let him remain as a sitter . 
All of this might seem diabolical , but the saloon keeper was in no wise to blame for it . 
He was in the same plight as the manufacturer who has to adulterate and misrepresent his product . 
The market for sitters was glutted that afternoon , however , and there was no place for Jurgis . 
, and got close to the big stove . 
There were three elderly gentlemen in black upon the platform , and a young lady who played the piano in front . 
First they sang a hymn , and then one of the three , a tall , smooth shaven man , very thin , and wearing black spectacles , began an address . 
The evangelist was preaching sin and redemption , the infinite grace of God and His pardon for human frailty . 
He was very much in earnest , and he meant well , but Jurgis , as he listened , found his soul filled with hatred . 
It was yet an hour before the station house would open , and Jurgis had no overcoat and was weak from a long illness . 
During that hour he nearly perished . 
So all the hiding places of the city were crowded , and before that station house door men fought and tore each other like savage beasts . 
When at last the place was jammed and they shut the doors , half the crowd was still outside and Jurgis , with his helpless arm , was among them . 
There was no choice then but to go to a lodginghouse and spend another dime . 
It really broke his heart to do this , at half past twelve o'clock , after he had wasted the night at the meeting and on the street . 
This was one day , and the cold spell lasted for fourteen of them . 
At the end of six days every cent of Jurgis' money was gone and then he went out on the streets to beg for his life . 
He would begin as soon as the business of the city was moving . 
The victim never paused to ask where else Jurgis could have gone under the circumstances where he , the victim , would have gone . 
Also he could find a comfortable seat by a fire , and could chat with a companion until he was as warm as toast . 
At the saloon , too , he felt at home . 
He was just out of the hospital , and desperately sick looking , and with a helpless arm also he had no overcoat , and shivered pitifully . 
But , alas , it was again the case of the honest merchant , who finds that the genuine and unadulterated article is driven to the wall by the artistic counterfeit . 
Jurgis , as a beggar , was simply a blundering amateur in competition with organized and scientific professionalism . 
He was pale and shivering but they were made up with cosmetics , and had studied the art of chattering their teeth . 
There were some who had both their arms bound tightly to their sides , and padded stumps in their sleeves , and a sick child hired to carry a cup for them . 
There were some who had no legs , and pushed themselves upon a wheeled platform some who had been favored with blindness , and were led by pretty little dogs . 
Day after day he roamed about in the arctic cold , his soul filled full of bitterness and despair . 
He had lost in the fierce battle of greed , and so was doomed to be exterminated and all society was busied to see that he did not escape the sentence . 
They had their own affairs , and there was no place for him among them . 
And then one day there befell Jurgis the one adventure of his life . 
It was late at night , and he had failed to get the price of a lodging . 
Snow was falling , and he had been out so long that he was covered with it , and was chilled to the bone . 
He was working among the theater crowds , flitting here and there , taking large chances with the police , in his desperation half hoping to be arrested . 
When he saw a bluecoat start toward him , however , his heart failed him , and he dashed down a side street and fled a couple of blocks . 
When he stopped again he saw a man coming toward him , and placed himself in his path . 
The other had halted , and Jurgis suddenly noticed that he stood a little unsteadily . 
Whuzzat you say ? he queried suddenly , in a thick voice . 
Jurgis began again , speaking more slowly and distinctly before he was half through the other put out his hand and rested it upon his shoulder . 
Poor ole chappie ! he said . 
Been up hic up against it , hey ? Then he lurched toward Jurgis , and the hand upon his shoulder became an arm about his neck . 
Up against it myself , ole sport , he said . 
She's a hard ole world . 
They were close to a lamppost , and Jurgis got a glimpse of the other . 
He was a young fellow not much over eighteen , with a handsome boyish face . 
He wore a silk hat and a rich soft overcoat with a fur collar and he smiled at Jurgis with benignant sympathy . 
I'm hard up , too , my goo' fren' , he said . 
I've got cruel parents , or I'd set you up . 
Whuzzamatter whizyer ? I've been in the hospital . 
So , said the other , sympathetically . 
That ain't so bad you get over that . 
Hungry ! Why don't you hassome supper ? I've got no money , sir . 
But then they won't lemme sleep there guv'ner's orders , by Harry home every night , sir ! Ever hear anythin' like that ? 'Every mornin' do ? I asked him . 
'No , sir , every night , or no allowance at all , sir . 
The latter was glancing about nervously , lest some one should approach . 
They were still alone , however . 
Jurgis was trying to think what to do he knew he could not pass any crowded place with his new acquaintance without attracting attention and being stopped . 
It was only because of the falling snow that people who passed here did not notice anything wrong . 
Suddenly , therefore , Jurgis stopped . 
Is it very far ? he inquired . 
You call , ole sport , an' I'll pay , he suggested . 
How's that , hey ? And he pulled out from somewhere a big roll of bills . 
It was more money than Jurgis had ever seen in his life before , and he stared at it with startled eyes . 
Looks like a lot , hey ? said Master Freddie , fumbling with it . 
Fool you , though , ole chappie they're all little ones ! I'll be busted in one week more , sure thing word of honor . 
An' not a cent more till the first hic guv'ner's orders hic not a cent , by Harry ! Nuff to set a feller crazy , it is . 
I sent him a cable , this af'noon thass one reason more why I'm goin' home . 
'Hangin' on the verge of starvation , I says 'for the honor of the family hic sen' me some bread . 
Hunger will compel me to join you Freddie . 
Thass what I wired him , by Harry , an' I mean it I'll run away from school , b'God , if he don't sen' me some . 
After this fashion the young gentleman continued to prattle on and meantime Jurgis was trembling with excitement . 
He might grab that wad of bills and be out of sight in the darkness before the other could collect his wits . 
Freddie got one bill loose , and then stuffed the rest back into his trousers' pocket . 
Here , ole man , he said , you take it . 
He held it out fluttering . 
They were in front of a saloon and by the light of the window Jurgis saw that it was a hundred dollar bill ! You take it , the other repeated . 
Then Freddie gave a number on the Lake Shore Drive , and the carriage started away . 
He was afraid to try to go through his companion's pockets , however and besides the cabbie might be on the watch . 
He had the hundred safe , and he would have to be content with that . 
At the end of half an hour or so the cab stopped . 
They were out on the waterfront , and from the east a freezing gale was blowing off the ice bound lake . 
Here we are , called the cabbie , and Jurgis awakened his companion . 
Master Freddie sat up with a start . 
By the light of the driveway lamps Jurgis could see that it had towers and huge gables , like a medieval castle . 
He thought that the young fellow must have made a mistake it was inconceivable to him that any person could have a home like a hotel or the city hall . 
But he followed in silence , and they went up the long flight of steps , arm in arm . 
There's a button here , ole sport , said Master Freddie . 
A man in blue livery stood holding it , and gazing before him , silent as a statue . 
They stood for a moment blinking in the light . 
Then Jurgis felt his companion pulling , and he stepped in , and the blue automaton closed the door . 
Jurgis's heart was beating wildly it was a bold thing for him to do into what strange unearthly place he was venturing he had no idea . 
Aladdin entering his cave could not have been more excited . 
After two or three attempts he accomplished this , with the lackey's help , and meantime a second man had approached , a tall and portly personage , solemn as an executioner . 
He bore straight down upon Jurgis , who shrank away nervously he seized him by the arm without a word , and started toward the door with him . 
Then suddenly came Master Freddie's voice , Hamilton ! My fren' will remain wiz me . 
The man paused and half released Jurgis . 
Come 'long ole chappie , said the other , and Jurgis started toward him . 
Master Frederick ! exclaimed the man . 
See that the cabbie hic is paid , was the other's response and he linked his arm in Jurgis' . 
Jurgis was about to say , I have the money for him , but he restrained himself . 
The stout man in uniform signaled to the other , who went out to the cab , while he followed Jurgis and his young master . 
They went down the great hall , and then turned . 
Before them were two huge doors . 
Hamilton , said Master Freddie . 
Well , sir ? said the other . 
Whuzzamatter wizze dinin' room doors ? Nothing is the matter , sir . 
Then why dontcha openum ? The man rolled them back another vista lost itself in the darkness . 
Lights , commanded Master Freddie and the butler pressed a button , and a flood of brilliant incandescence streamed from above , half blinding Jurgis . 
Then his eye passed to the long table in the center of the hall , a table black as ebony , and gleaming with wrought silver and gold . 
This's the dinin' room , observed Master Freddie . 
How you like it , hey , ole sport ? He always insisted on having an answer to his remarks , leaning over Jurgis and smiling into his face . 
Come from country , maybe hey ? Yes , said Jurgis . 
Aha ! I thosso ! Lossa folks from country never saw such a place . 
Guv'ner brings 'em free show hic reg'lar circus ! Go home tell folks about it . 
Ole man lones's place lones the packer beef trust man . 
Made it all out of hogs , too , damn ole scoundrel . 
What ! cried Master Freddie , with a yell . 
Come to spend the night wiz me , Hamilton have a hot time . 
Me fren' , Mr. whuzya name , ole chappie ? Tell us your name . 
My fren' , Mr. Rednose , Hamilton shake han's . 
The stately butler bowed his head , but made not a sound and suddenly Master Freddie pointed an eager finger at him . 
I know whuzzamatter wiz you , Hamilton lay you a dollar I know ! You think hic you think I'm drunk ! Hey , now ? And the butler again bowed his head . 
Yes , sir , he said , at which Master Freddie hung tightly upon Jurgis's neck and went into a fit of laughter . 
Whatcha wanta do ? he queried suddenly . 
Wanta see the place , ole chappie ? Wamme play the guv'ner show you roun' ? State parlors Looee Cans Looee Sez chairs cost three thousand apiece . 
No never mind clean forgot says he's hungry , Hamilton less have some supper . 
Only hic don't less have it here come up to my place , ole sport nice an' cosy . 
This way steady now , don't slip on the floor . 
Hamilton , we'll have a cole spread , an' some fizz don't leave out the fizz , by Harry . 
We'll have some of the eighteen thirty Madeira . 
Hear me , sir ? Yes , sir , said the butler , but , Master Frederick , your father left orders And Master Frederick drew himself up to a stately height . 
My father's orders were left to me hic an' not to you , he said . 
An' how's the twins , Hamilton ? They are doing well , sir . 
Above was a huge court , with domed roof , the various apartments opening into it . 
The butler had paused below but a few minutes to give orders , and then followed them now he pressed a button , and the hall blazed with light . 
He opened a door before them , and then pressed another button , as they staggered into the apartment . 
It was fitted up as a study . 
An enormous moose head , with horns six feet across , faced a buffalo head on the opposite wall , while bear and tiger skins covered the polished floor . 
Beyond , a door opened upon a bedroom , and beyond that was a swimming pool of the purest marble , that had cost about forty thousand dollars . 
He yawned , opening a mouth like a dragon's and he came toward the young man , wagging his tail . 
Hello , Dewey ! cried his master . 
Why , Dewey this' my fren' , Mr. Rednose ole fren' the guv'ner's ! Mr. Rednose , Admiral Dewey shake han's hic . 
He was perfectly sober , was the Admiral . 
The butler had closed the door , and he stood by it , watching Jurgis every second . 
Now there came footsteps outside , and , as he opened the door a man in livery entered , carrying a folding table , and behind him two men with covered trays . 
They stood like statues while the first spread the table and set out the contents of the trays upon it . 
, little fancy cakes , pink and green and yellow and white , and half a dozen ice cold bottles of wine . 
Thass the stuff for you ! cried Master Freddie , exultantly , as he spied them . 
Come 'long , ole chappie , move up . 
And he seated himself at the table the waiter pulled a cork , and he took the bottle and poured three glasses of its contents in succession down his throat . 
Then he gave a long drawn sigh , and cried again to Jurgis to seat himself . 
Master Freddie perceived that the attendants embarrassed him , and he remarked with a nod to them , You may go . 
They went , all save the butler . 
You may go too , Hamilton , he said . 
Master Frederick the man began . 
Go ! cried the youngster , angrily . 
Master Frederick turned to the table again . 
Now , he said , go for it . 
Jurgis gazed at him doubtingly . 
Eat ! cried the other . 
Pile in , ole chappie ! Don't you want anything ? Jurgis asked . 
Ain't hungry , was the reply only thirsty . 
Kitty and me had some candy you go on . 
So Jurgis began , without further parley . 
Gee whiz ! said the other , who had been watching him in wonder . 
Then he held Jurgis the bottle . 
And Jurgis gazed back at him . 
He was clad in spotless evening dress , was Freddie , and looked very handsome he was a beautiful boy , with light golden hair and the head of an Antinous . 
He smiled at Jurgis confidingly , and then started talking again , with his blissful insouciance . 
This time he talked for ten minutes at a stretch , and in the course of the speech he told Jurgis all of his family history . 
His big brother Charlie was in love with the guileless maiden who played the part of Little Bright Eyes in The Kaliph of Kamskatka . 
Now Charlie had got leave from college , and had gone away in his automobile on the next best thing to a honeymoon . 
The guv'ner had made threats to disinherit another of his children also , sister Gwendolen , who had married an Italian marquis with a string of titles and a dueling record . 
So they had left Freddie all alone , and he with less than two thousand dollars in his pocket . 
So the cheerful youngster rattled on , until he was tired out . 
He smiled his sweetest smile at Jurgis , and then he closed his eyes , sleepily . 
Then he opened them again , and smiled once more , and finally closed them and forgot to open them . 
For several minutes Jurgis sat perfectly motionless , watching him , and reveling in the strange sensation of the champagne . 
Once he stirred , and the dog growled after that he sat almost holding his breath until after a while the door of the room opened softly , and the butler came in . 
He walked toward Jurgis upon tiptoe , scowling at him and Jurgis rose up , and retreated , scowling back . 
So until he was against the wall , and then the butler came close , and pointed toward the door . 
Get out of here ! he whispered . 
Jurgis hesitated , giving a glance at Freddie , who was snoring softly . 
If you do , you son of a hissed the butler , I'll mash in your face for you before you get out of here ! And Jurgis wavered but an instant more . 
He saw Admiral Dewey coming up behind the man and growling softly , to back up his threats . 
Then he surrendered and started toward the door . 
They went out without a sound , and down the great echoing staircase , and through the dark hall . 
At the front door he paused , and the butler strode close to him . 
Hold up your hands , he snarled . 
Jurgis took a step back , clinching his one well fist . 
What for ? he cried and then understanding that the fellow proposed to search him , he answered , I'll see you in hell first . 
Do you want to go to jail ? demanded the butler , menacingly . 
I'll have the police Have 'em ! roared Jurgis , with fierce passion . 
Chapter Jurgis got up , wild with rage , but the door was shut and the great castle was dark and impregnable . 
Then the icy teeth of the blast bit into him , and he turned and went away at a run . 
When he stopped again it was because he was coming to frequented streets and did not wish to attract attention . 
In spite of that last humiliation , his heart was thumping fast with triumph . 
Yet he was in a plight a curious and even dreadful plight , when he came to realize it . 
There was no one he could go to for help he had to manage it all alone . 
To get it changed in a lodging house would be to take his life in his hands he would almost certainly be robbed , and perhaps murdered , before morning . 
The only other plan he could think of was to try in a saloon . 
He might pay them to change it , if it could not be done otherwise . 
Can you change me a hundred dollar bill ? he demanded . 
The bartender was a big , husky fellow , with the jaw of a prize fighter , and a three weeks' stubble of hair upon it . 
What's that youse say ? he demanded . 
I said , could you change me a hundred dollar bill ? Where'd youse get it ? he inquired incredulously . 
Never mind , said Jurgis I've got it , and I want it changed . 
I'll pay you if you'll do it . 
The other stared at him hard . 
Lemme see it , he said . 
Will you change it ? Jurgis demanded , gripping it tightly in his pocket . 
How the hell can I know if it's good or not ? retorted the bartender . 
Then finally he handed it over . 
It was new and rather stiff , and that made him dubious . 
Jurgis was watching him like a cat all the time . 
Yes , said Jurgis , I'll take a glass of beer . 
All right , said the other , I'll change it . 
And he put the bill in his pocket , and poured Jurgis out a glass of beer , and set it on the counter . 
Then he turned to the cash register , and punched up five cents , and began to pull money out of the drawer . 
Finally , he faced Jurgis , counting it out two dimes , a quarter , and fifty cents . 
For a second Jurgis waited , expecting to see him turn again . 
My ninety nine dollars , he said . 
What ninety nine dollars ? demanded the bartender . 
My change ! he cried the rest of my hundred ! Go on , said the bartender , you're nutty ! And Jurgis stared at him with wild eyes . 
It just grazed his head , and shivered into a thousand pieces against the post of the door . 
Then Jurgis started back , rushing at the man again in the middle of the room . 
Look out ! shouted the bartender . 
Though the blow staggered him , the wild beast frenzy still blazed in him , and he got to his feet , lunging into the air . 
Then again the club descended , full upon his head , and he dropped like a log to the floor . 
The policeman crouched over him , clutching his stick , waiting for him to try to rise again and meantime the barkeeper got up , and put his hand to his head . 
Christ ! he said , I thought I was done for that time . 
Did he cut me ? Don't see anything , Jake , said the policeman . 
What's the matter with him ? Just crazy drunk , said the other . 
A lame duck , too but he 'most got me under the bar . 
Youse had better call the wagon , Billy . 
No , said the officer . 
He's got no more fight in him , I guess and he's only got a block to go . 
He twisted his hand in Jurgis's collar and jerked at him . 
Git up here , you ! he commanded . 
Then , as the latter began to moan feebly , the policeman got him to his feet and dragged him out of the place . 
The station house was just around the corner , and so in a few minutes Jurgis was in a cell . 
He spent half the night lying unconscious , and the balance moaning in torment , with a blinding headache and a racking thirst . 
Now and then he cried aloud for a drink of water , but there was no one to hear him . 
In the morning Jurgis was given a cup of water and a piece of bread , and then hustled into a patrol wagon and driven to the nearest police court . 
He sat in the pen with a score of others until his turn came . 
The bartender who proved to be a well known bruiser was called to the stand , He took the oath and told his story . 
The prisoner had come into his saloon after midnight , fighting drunk , and had ordered a glass of beer and tendered a dollar bill in payment . 
What have you to say for yourself ? queried the magistrate . 
Your Honor , said Jurgis , I went into his place and asked the man if he could change me a hundred dollar bill . 
And he said he would if I bought a drink . 
I gave him the bill and then he wouldn't give me the change . 
The magistrate was staring at him in perplexity . 
You gave him a hundred dollar bill ! he exclaimed . 
Yes , your Honor , said Jurgis . 
Where did you get it ? A man gave it to me , your Honor . 
A man ? What man , and what for ? A young man I met upon the street , your Honor . 
There was a titter in the courtroom the officer who was holding Jurgis put up his hand to hide a smile , and the magistrate smiled without trying to hide it . 
It's true , your Honor ! cried Jurgis , passionately . 
You had been drinking as well as begging last night , had you not ? inquired the magistrate . 
No , your Honor protested Jurgis . 
Have you ever been arrested before ? he asked abruptly . 
The question took Jurgis aback . 
Tell me the truth , now ! commanded the other , sternly . 
Yes , your Honor , said Jurgis . 
How often ? Only once , your Honor . 
What for ? For knocking down my boss , your Honor . 
I was working in the stockyards , and he I see , said his Honor I guess that will do . 
You ought to stop drinking if you can't control yourself . 
Jurgis gave vent to a cry of dismay , cut off suddenly by the policeman , who seized him by the collar . 
He was jerked out of the way , into a room with the convicted prisoners , where he sat and wept like a child in his impotent rage . 
Jurgis was driven out to the Bridewell for the second time . 
In his tumbling around he had hurt his arm again , and so could not work , but had to be attended by the physician . 
By God , if it isn't 'the Stinker' ! he cried . 
And what is it have you been through a sausage machine ? No , said Jurgis , but I've been in a railroad wreck and a fight . 
Hard luck , old man , he said , when they were alone but maybe it's taught you a lesson . 
I've learned some things since I saw you last , said Jurgis mournfully . 
Then he explained how he had spent the last summer , hoboing it , as the phrase was . 
And you ? he asked finally . 
Have you been here ever since ? Lord , no ! said the other . 
I only came in the day before yesterday . 
It's the second time they've sent me up on a trumped up charge I've had hard luck and can't pay them what they want . 
Why don't you quit Chicago with me , Jurgis ? I've no place to go , said Jurgis , sadly . 
Neither have I , replied the other , laughing lightly . 
But we'll wait till we get out and see . 
In the Bridewell Jurgis met few who had been there the last time , but he met scores of others , old and young , of exactly the same sort . 
It was like breakers upon a beach there was new water , but the wave looked just the same . 
And so , when he was turned out of prison again , without a penny in his pocket , he went straight to Jack Duane . 
He had gone elsewhere , she told Jurgis he was afraid to stay there now , on account of the police . 
Duane was glad to see him he was without a cent of money , he said , and had been waiting for Jurgis to help him get some . 
Also Rosensteg , the pawnbroker , would buy anything he had for a third of its value , and guarantee to keep it hidden for a year . 
Pretty soon a man came by , a workingman and they let him go . 
Then after a long interval came the heavy tread of a policeman , and they held their breath till he was gone . 
Though half frozen , they waited a full quarter of an hour after that and then again came footsteps , walking briskly . 
Duane nudged Jurgis , and the instant the man had passed they rose up . 
Duane stole out as silently as a shadow , and a second later Jurgis heard a thud and a stifled cry . 
He was only a couple of feet behind , and he leaped to stop the man's mouth , while Duane held him fast by the arms , as they had agreed . 
At last , after feeling of the man's fingers and in his necktie , Duane whispered , That's all ! and they dragged him to the area and dropped him in . 
Then Jurgis went one way and his friend the other , walking briskly . 
The latter arrived first , and Jurgis found him examining the swag . 
This last Duane opened feverishly there were letters and checks , and two theater tickets , and at last , in the back part , a wad of bills . 
He counted them there was a twenty , five tens , four fives , and three ones . 
Duane drew a long breath . 
That lets us out ! he said . 
After further examination , they burned the cardcase and its contents , all but the bills , and likewise the picture of a little girl in the locket . 
Then Duane took the watch and trinkets downstairs , and came back with sixteen dollars . 
The old scoundrel said the case was filled , he said . 
It's a lie , but he knows I want the money . 
They divided up the spoils , and Jurgis got as his share fifty five dollars and some change . 
He protested that it was too much , but the other had agreed to divide even . 
That was a good haul , he said , better than average . 
When they got up in the morning , Jurgis was sent out to buy a paper one of the pleasures of committing a crime was the reading about it afterward . 
The victim was an insurance agent , and he had lost a hundred and ten dollars that did not belong to him . 
He had chanced to have his name marked on his shirt , otherwise he would not have been identified yet . 
The enterprising newspaper reporter had taken all this information to his family , and told how they had received it . 
Since it was Jurgis's first experience , these details naturally caused him some worriment but the other laughed coolly it was the way of the game , and there was no helping it . 
Before long Jurgis would think no more of it than they did in the yards of knocking out a bullock . 
It's a case of us or the other fellow , and I say the other fellow , every time , he observed . 
Still , said Jurgis , reflectively , he never did us any harm . 
He was doing it to somebody as hard as he could , you can be sure of that , said his friend . 
Duane had already explained to Jurgis that if a man of their trade were known he would have to work all the time to satisfy the demands of the police . 
Therefore it would be better for Jurgis to stay in hiding and never be seen in public with his pal . 
But Jurgis soon got very tired of staying in hiding . 
In a couple of weeks he was feeling strong and beginning to use his arm , and then he could not stand it any longer . 
And so Jurgis got a glimpse of the high class criminal world of Chicago . 
And this army of graft had , of course , to be maintained the year round . 
The rank and file , however , were either foisted upon the city , or else lived off the population directly . 
The law forbade Sunday drinking and this had delivered the saloon keepers into the hands of the police , and made an alliance between them necessary . 
The law forbade prostitution and this had brought the madames into the combination . 
He was introduced by his friend to an Irishman named Buck Halloran , who was a political worker and on the inside of things . 
Jurgis expressed himself as agreeable , and the other took him that afternoon to a place where city laborers were being paid off . 
The paymaster sat in a little booth , with a pile of envelopes before him , and two policemen standing by . 
Then he went again and gave the name of Johann Schmidt , and a third time , and give the name of Serge Reminitsky . 
Halloran had quite a list of imaginary workingmen , and Jurgis got an envelope for each one . 
For this work he received five dollars , and was told that he might have it every week , so long as he kept quiet . 
As Jurgis was excellent at keeping quiet , he soon won the trust of Buck Halloran , and was introduced to others as a man who could be depended upon . 
This ball was held in a big dance hall , and was one of the occasions when the city's powers of debauchery gave themselves up to madness . 
He had not the same provocations of exhaustion and hopelessness he had now something to work for , to struggle for . 
One thing led to another . 
came in , a little more than half piped . 
They got his watch and his wad , and were round the corner again and into the saloon before he could shout more than once . 
From the roof of this there was access to three similar places beyond . 
Thousands of them came to Chicago answering advertisements for servants and factory hands , and found themselves trapped by fake employment agencies , and locked up in a bawdyhouse . 
Occasionally there was no way of satisfying them but to let them search the place to which the girl had been traced . 
The fellow was a stranger in Chicago , and if he was found some night with his head cracked there would be no one to care very much . 
Duane took all this in at once , but Jurgis had to have the whole race track situation explained to him before he realized the importance of such an opportunity . 
There was the gigantic Racing Trust . 
The word came by long distance telephone in a cipher code , just a little while before each race and any man who could get the secret had as good as a fortune . 
If Jurgis did not believe it , he could try it , said the little Jew let them meet at a certain house on the morrow and make a test . 
, and they put up ten dollars each upon a horse called Black Beldame , a six to one shot , and won . 
There were ups and downs at the business but there was always a living , inside of a jail , if not out of it . 
Early in April the city elections were due , and that meant prosperity for all the powers of graft . 
Just at this time there was a tremendous uproar being raised concerning the alliance between the criminals and the police . 
For the criminal graft was one in which the businessmen had no direct part it was what is called a side line , carried by the police . 
Wide open gambling and debauchery made the city pleasing to trade , but burglaries and holdups did not . 
Such a howl from the newspapers followed this that Duane was slated for sacrifice , and barely got out of town in time . 
The other was interested in the coincidence , but did not remember Jurgis he had handled too many green ones in his time , he said . 
He sat in a dance hall with Jurgis and Halloran until one or two in the morning , exchanging experiences . 
He had a long story to tell of his quarrel with the superintendent of his department , and how he was now a plain workingman , and a good union man as well . 
The yards were seething with agitation just then , said the man , speaking as a unionist . 
The people of Packingtown had borne about all that they would bear , and it looked as if a strike might begin any week . 
After this talk the man made inquiries concerning Jurgis , and a couple of days later he came to him with an interesting proposition . 
Harper Bush Harper , he was called was a right hand man of Mike Scully , the Democratic boss of the stockyards and in the coming election there was a peculiar situation . 
The brewer was a Jew , and had no brains , but he was harmless , and would put up a rare campaign fund . 
Scully had accepted the offer , and then gone to the Republicans with a proposition . 
In return for this the Republicans would agree to put up no candidate the following year , when Scully himself came up for reelection as the other alderman from the ward . 
They were the Socialists and it was a devil of a mess , said Bush Harper . 
There were barrels of money for the use of those who could deliver the goods and Jurgis might count upon Mike Scully , who had never yet gone back on a friend . 
Just what could he do ? Jurgis asked , in some perplexity , and the other explained in detail . 
When he had heard all this explanation to the end , Jurgis demanded But how can I get a job in Packingtown ? I'm blacklisted . 
At which Bush Harper laughed . 
I'll attend to that all right , he said . 
And the other replied , It's a go , then I'm your man . 
So Jurgis went out to the stockyards again , and was introduced to the political lord of the district , the boss of Chicago's mayor . 
It was Scully who owned the brickyards and the dump and the ice pond though Jurgis did not know it . 
But Jurgis knew none of these things any more than he knew that Scully was but a tool and puppet of the packers . 
To him Scully was a mighty power , the biggest man he had ever met . 
He was a little , dried up Irishman , whose hands shook . 
He was once indiscreet , but you will perhaps be so good as to overlook that . 
Mr. Harmon looked up inquiringly when he read this . 
What does he mean by 'indiscreet' ? he asked . 
I was blacklisted , sir , said Jurgis . 
At which the other frowned . 
How do you mean ? And Jurgis turned red with embarrassment . 
He had forgotten that a blacklist did not exist . 
I that is I had difficulty in getting a place , he stammered . 
What was the matter ? I got into a quarrel with a foreman not my own boss , sir and struck him . 
I see , said the other , and meditated for a few moments . 
What do you wish to do ? he asked . 
Anything , sir , said Jurgis only I had a broken arm this winter , and so I have to be careful . 
How would it suit you to be a night watchman ? That wouldn't do , sir . 
I have to be among the men at night . 
Well , would it suit you to trim hogs ? Yes , sir , said Jurgis . 
And Mr. Harmon called a timekeeper and said , Take this man to Pat Murphy and tell him to find room for him somehow . 
And so Jurgis marched into the hog killing room , a place where , in the days gone by , he had come begging for a job . 
Now he walked jauntily , and smiled to himself , seeing the frown that came to the boss's face as the timekeeper said , Mr. Harmon says to put this man on . 
It would overcrowd his department and spoil the record he was trying to make but he said not a word except All right . 
And so Jurgis became a workingman once more and straightway he sought out his old friends , and joined the union , and began to root for Scotty Doyle . 
Already they had hired a big hall , with some of the brewer's money , and every night Jurgis brought in a dozen new members of the Doyle Republican Association . 
During this parade , and at innumerable cart tail meetings as well , Jurgis labored tirelessly . 
Thus in the course of the campaign he handled many hundreds of dollars of the Hebrew brewer's money , administering it with naive and touching fidelity . 
After that Jurgis did his best to please them , and to make up for the time he had lost before he discovered the extra bungholes of the campaign barrel . 
He pleased Mike Scully , also . 
Chapter After the elections Jurgis stayed on in Packingtown and kept his job . 
The agitation to break up the police protection of criminals was continuing , and it seemed to him best to lay low for the present . 
Besides , Mike Scully , whom he consulted , advised him that something might turn up before long . 
Jurgis got himself a place in a boardinghouse with some congenial friends . 
He had already inquired of Aniele , and learned that Elzbieta and her family had gone downtown , and so he gave no further thought to them . 
He went with a new set , now , young unmarried fellows who were sporty . 
Jurgis had long ago cast off his fertilizer clothing , and since going into politics he had donned a linen collar and a greasy red necktie . 
Sometimes he would ride down town with a party of friends to the cheap theaters and the music halls and other haunts with which they were familiar . 
Many of the saloons in Packingtown had pool tables , and some of them bowling alleys , by means of which he could spend his evenings in petty gambling . 
Also , there were cards and dice . 
During all this time the same man and woman would dance together , half stupefied with sensuality and drink . 
Before long Jurgis discovered what Scully had meant by something turning up . 
In May the agreement between the packers and the unions expired , and a new agreement had to be signed . 
Negotiations were going on , and the yards were full of talk of a strike . 
The old scale had dealt with the wages of the skilled men only and of the members of the Meat Workers' Union about two thirds were unskilled men . 
It was the same in all the packing house cities and suddenly the newspapers and public woke up to face the gruesome spectacle of a meat famine . 
So the men boiled over , and one night telegrams went out from the union headquarters to all the big packing centers to St . 
Paul , South Omaha , Sioux City , St . 
Joseph , Kansas City , East St . 
Scully had gone into semiretirement , and looked nervous and worried . 
What do you want ? he demanded , when he saw Jurgis . 
I came to see if maybe you could get me a place during the strike , the other replied . 
And Scully knit his brows and eyed him narrowly . 
Now , therefore , Jurgis was not a little taken aback when the other demanded suddenly , See here , Rudkus , why don't you stick by your job ? Jurgis started . 
Work as a scab ? he cried . 
Why not ? demanded Scully . 
What's that to you ? But but stammered Jurgis . 
He had somehow taken it for granted that he should go out with his union . 
The packers need good men , and need them bad , continued the other , and they'll treat a man right that stands by them . 
Why not ? asked Jurgis . 
Hell , man ! cried the other . 
He had never thought of that aspect of it before . 
I could be a Democrat , he said . 
Yes , responded the other , but not right away a man can't change his politics every day . 
And besides , I don't need you there'd be nothing for you to do . 
And it's a long time to election day , anyhow and what are you going to do meantime ? I thought I could count on you , began Jurgis . 
Yes , responded Scully , so you could I never yet went back on a friend . 
What have you to gain by a strike ? I hadn't thought , said Jurgis . 
Exactly , said Scully , but you'd better . 
Do you see ? And Jurgis saw . 
He went back to the yards , and into the workroom . 
Jurgis went straight up to him and announced , I have come back to work , Mr. Murphy . 
The boss's face lighted up . 
Good man ! he cried . 
Come ahead ! Just a moment , said Jurgis , checking his enthusiasm . 
I think I ought to get a little more wages . 
Yes , replied the other , of course . 
What do you want ? Jurgis had debated on the way . 
His nerve almost failed him now , but he clenched his hands . 
I think I ought to have' three dollars a day , he said . 
The police , and the strikers also , were determined that there should be no violence but there was another party interested which was minded to the contrary and that was the press . 
They accepted , and went through the big Halsted Street gate , where several policemen were watching , and also some union pickets , scanning sharply those who passed in and out . 
Meantime , of course , policemen were coming on a run , and as a crowd gathered other police got excited and sent in a riot call . 
Jurgis was to see more of this as time passed . 
He chose the latter , but to his regret , for all night long gangs of strikebreakers kept arriving . 
An opportunity such as this would not come twice to a man and Jurgis seized it . 
Yes , he knew the work , the whole of it , and he could teach it to others . 
Jurgis would receive five dollars a day during the strike , and twenty five a week after it was settled . 
So our friend got a pair of slaughter pen boots and jeans , and flung himself at his task . 
It was such a force as this that Jurgis had to organize . 
He had not the most tractable pupils , however . 
See hyar , boss , a big black buck would begin , ef you doan' like de way Ah does dis job , you kin get somebody else to do it . 
Then a crowd would gather and listen , muttering threats . 
After the first meal nearly all the steel knives had been missing , and now every Negro had one , ground to a fine point , hidden in his boots . 
Everything went , during the strike , and the packers paid . 
Before long Jurgis found that the custom of resting had suggested to some alert minds the possibility of registering at more than one place and earning more than one five dollars a day . 
Of course , before long this custom spread , and Jurgis was soon making quite a good income from it . 
In the face of handicaps such as these the packers counted themselves lucky if they could kill off the cattle that had been crippled in transit and the hogs that had developed disease . 
And meantime trainloads of supplies were coming in for their accommodation , including beer and whisky , so that they might not be tempted to go outside . 
But with all their best efforts , the packers were demoralized . 
They made an offer to submit the whole question at issue to arbitration and at the end of ten days the unions accepted it , and the strike was called off . 
It was agreed that all the men were to be re employed within forty five days , and that there was to be no discrimination against union men . 
This was an anxious time for Jurgis . 
If the men were taken back without discrimination , he would lose his present place . 
He sought out the superintendent , who smiled grimly and bade him wait and see . 
Durham's strikebreakers were few of them leaving . 
Each time , of course , there were louder murmurings and angrier looks . 
Over where the cattle butchers were waiting , Jurgis heard shouts and saw a crowd , and he hurried there . 
Then there were yells and hoots , continuing until at last the superintendent came to the door . 
We all go back or none of us do ! cried a hundred voices . 
There was quite a different tone in Packingtown after this the place was a seething caldron of passion , and the scab who ventured into it fared badly . 
There were one or two of these incidents each day , the newspapers detailing them , and always blaming them upon the unions . 
Meantime the packers had set themselves definitely to the task of making a new labor force . 
A thousand or two of strikebreakers were brought in every night , and distributed among the various plants . 
Now for the first time they were free free to gratify every passion , free to wreck themselves . 
Every night there were stabbings and shootings it was said that the packers had blank permits , which enabled them to ship dead bodies from the city without troubling the authorities . 
They lodged men and women on the same floor and with the night there began a saturnalia of debauchery scenes such as never before had been witnessed in America . 
Each day they added new workers , and could be more stern with the old ones could put them on piecework , and dismiss them if they did not keep up the pace . 
Jurgis was now one of their agents in this process and he could feel the change day by day , like the slow starting up of a huge machine . 
He was drinking , and developing a villainous temper , and he stormed and cursed and raged at his men , and drove them until they were ready to drop with exhaustion . 
Then one day late in August , a superintendent ran into the place and shouted to Jurgis and his gang to drop their work and come . 
They followed him outside , to where , in the midst of a dense throng , they saw several two horse trucks waiting , and three patrol wagon loads of police . 
Jurgis and his men sprang upon one of the trucks , and the driver yelled to the crowd , and they went thundering away at a gallop . 
There was a yell as soon as they were sighted , men and women rushing out of houses and saloons as they galloped by . 
There were eight or ten policemen on the truck , however , and there was no disturbance until they came to a place where the street was blocked with a dense throng . 
Those on the flying truck yelled a warning and the crowd scattered pell mell , disclosing one of the steers lying in its blood . 
This called for punishment , of course and the police proceeded to administer it by leaping from the truck and cracking at every head they saw . 
There were yells of rage and pain , and the terrified people fled into houses and stores , or scattered helter skelter down the street . 
Jurgis and his gang joined in the sport , every man singling out his victim , and striving to bring him to bay and punch him . 
Jurgis and two policemen chased some men into a bar room . 
Then the three went outside , and the man who was holding the woman gave her a shove and dashed out himself . 
Jurgis went downtown to supper , with three friends who had been on the other trucks , and they exchanged reminiscences on the way . 
Afterward they drifted into a roulette parlor , and Jurgis , who was never lucky at gambling , dropped about fifteen dollars . 
Who's there ? he called sharply . 
And Jurgis started to mutter some reply but at the same instant the man raised his light , which flashed in his face , so that it was possible to recognize him . 
Jurgis stood stricken dumb , and his heart gave a leap like a mad thing . 
Jurgis had often thought of Connor since coming back to Packingtown , but it had been as of something far off , that no longer concerned him . 
The woman began screaming , and people came rushing in . 
And so Jurgis spent the balance of the night in the stockyards station house . 
But Harper explained that he had been downtown , and had not got the message . 
What's happened to you ? he asked . 
I've been doing a fellow up , said Jurgis , and I've got to get five hundred dollars' bail . 
I can arrange that all right , said the other though it may cost you a few dollars , of course . 
But what was the trouble ? It was a man that did me a mean trick once , answered Jurgis . 
Who is he ? He's a foreman in Brown's or used to be . 
And the other gave a start . 
Not Phil Connor ! Yes , said Jurgis , that's the fellow . 
Why , he can send you to Joliet , if he wants to ! declared the other . 
Can't I have Scully get me off before he finds out about it ? asked Jurgis , at length . 
But Scully's out of town , the other answered . 
I don't even know where he is he's run away to dodge the strike . 
That was a pretty mess , indeed . 
Poor Jurgis sat half dazed . 
His pull had run up against a bigger pull , and he was down and out ! But what am I going to do ? '' he asked , weakly . 
How should I know ? said the other . 
I shouldn't even dare to get bail for you why , I might ruin myself for life ! Again there was silence . 
Then he sat buried in thought for a minute or two . 
There's nothing unless it's this , he said . 
I could have your bail reduced and then if you had the money you could pay it and skip . 
How much will it be ? Jurgis asked , after he had had this explained more in detail . 
I don't know , said the other . 
How much do you own ? I've got about three hundred dollars , was the answer . 
Well , was Harper's reply , I'm not sure , but I'll try and get you off for that . 
I'll take the risk for friendship's sake for I'd hate to see you sent to state's prison for a year or two . 
And so finally Jurgis ripped out his bankbook which was sewed up in his trousers and signed an order , which Bush Harper wrote , for all the money to be paid out . 
Chapter Poor Jurgis was now an outcast and a tramp once more . 
He was crippled he was as literally crippled as any wild animal which has lost its claws , or been torn out of its shell . 
He had been shorn , at one cut , of all those mysterious weapons whereby he had been able to make a living easily and to escape the consequences of his actions . 
He could no longer command a job when he wanted it he could no longer steal with impunity he must take his chances with the common herd . 
Nay worse , he dared not mingle with the herd he must hide himself , for he was one marked out for destruction . 
And also he labored under another handicap now . 
He had acquired new standards of living , which were not easily to be altered . 
But now he desired all sorts of other things , and suffered because he had to do without them . 
He must have a drink now and then , a drink for its own sake , and apart from the food that came with it . 
Jurgis became once more a besieger of factory gates . 
But never since he had been in Chicago had he stood less chance of getting a job than just then . 
The ten or fifteen thousand green Negroes , foreigners , and criminals were now being turned loose to shift for themselves . 
Everywhere Jurgis went he kept meeting them , and he was in an agony of fear lest some one of them should know that he was wanted . 
Once again , as when he had come out of the hospital , he was bound hand and foot , and facing the grisly phantom of starvation . 
Raw , naked terror possessed him , a maddening passion that would never leave him , and that wore him down more quickly than the actual want of food . 
He would walk , begging for work , until he was exhausted he could not remain still he would wander on , gaunt and haggard , gazing about him with restless eyes . 
He was lost ! He was doomed ! There was no hope for him ! But then , with a sudden rush , his fear gave place to rage . 
Jurgis , after one swift glance about him , stooped and seized the biggest of them , and darted round the corner with it . 
When he had gotten a safe distance away he sat down and devoured half the cabbage raw , stowing the balance away in his pockets till the next day . 
Just about this time one of the Chicago newspapers , which made much of the common people , opened a free soup kitchen for the benefit of the unemployed . 
That day Jurgis bought two drinks for the sake of the shelter , and at night he spent his last two pennies in a stale beer dive . 
All these horrors afflicted Jurgis all the more cruelly , because he was always contrasting them with the opportunities he had lost . 
And so he had soup and bread , and boiled beef and potatoes and beans , and pie and coffee , and came out with his skin stuffed tight as a football . 
The campaign had so far been characterized by what the newspapers termed apathy . 
To the senator this unique arrangement had somehow become identified with the higher verities of the universe . 
The name of this heroic company was the Grand Old Party And here the band began to play , and Jurgis sat up with a violent start . 
The reason for it was that he wanted to keep awake . 
Finally one of them called a policeman , who came and grabbed Jurgis by the collar , and jerked him to his feet , bewildered and terrified . 
He got into the shelter of a doorway and took stock of himself . 
He was not hurt , and he was not arrested more than he had any right to expect . 
He swore at himself and his luck for a while , and then turned his thoughts to practical matters . 
He had no money , and no place to sleep he must begin begging again . 
He went out , hunching his shoulders together and shivering at the touch of the icy rain . 
Coming down the street toward him was a lady , well dressed , and protected by an umbrella and he turned and walked beside her . 
Please , ma'am , he began , could you lend me the price of a night's lodging ? I'm a poor working man Then , suddenly , he stopped short . 
By the light of a street lamp he had caught sight of the lady's face . 
And now he met her here ! She was as much surprised as he was . 
Jurgis Rudkus ! she gasped . 
And what in the world is the matter with you ? I I've had hard luck , he stammered . 
I'm out of work , and I've no home and no money . 
And you , Alena are you married ? No , she answered , I'm not married , but I've got a good place . 
They stood staring at each other for a few moments longer . 
I can tell you where Marija is . 
Yes , said Alena and she'll help you . 
She's got a place , and she's doing well she'll be glad to see you . 
It was not much more than a year since Jurgis had left Packingtown , feeling like one escaped from jail and it had been from Marija and Elzbieta that he was escaping . 
But now , at the mere mention of them , his whole being cried out with joy . 
He wanted to see them he wanted to go home ! They would help him they would be kind to him . 
In a flash he had thought over the situation . 
He had a good excuse for running away his grief at the death of his son and also he had a good excuse for not returning the fact that they had left Packingtown . 
All right , he said , I'll go . 
So she gave him a number on Clark Street , adding , There's no need to give you my address , because Marija knows it . 
And Jurgis set out , without further ado . 
He found a large brownstone house of aristocratic appearance , and rang the basement bell . 
A young colored girl came to the door , opening it about an inch , and gazing at him suspiciously . 
What do you want ? she demanded . 
Does Marija Berczynskas live here ? he inquired . 
I dunno , said the girl . 
What you want wid her ? I want to see her , said he she's a relative of mine . 
The girl hesitated a moment . 
Then she opened the door and said , Come in . 
Jurgis came and stood in the hall , and she continued I'll go see . 
What's yo' name ? Tell her it's Jurgis , he answered , and the girl went upstairs . 
She came back at the end of a minute or two , and replied , Dey ain't no sich person here . 
Jurgis's heart went down into his boots . 
I was told this was where she lived ! he cried . 
But the girl only shook her head . 
De lady says dey ain't no sich person here , she said . 
And he stood for a moment , hesitating , helpless with dismay . 
Then he turned to go to the door . 
At the same instant , however , there came a knock upon it , and the girl went to open it . 
Then , seeing blue coated forms rushing upon him , he sprang after the Negress . 
There were men and women , the latter clad for the most part in wrappers , the former in all stages of dishabille . 
At one side Jurgis caught a glimpse of a big apartment with plush covered chairs , and tables covered with trays and glasses . 
There were playing cards scattered all over the floor one of the tables had been upset , and bottles of wine were rolling about , their contents running out upon the carpet . 
There was a young girl who had fainted , and two men who were supporting her and there were a dozen others crowding toward the front door . 
Suddenly , however , there came a series of resounding blows upon it , causing the crowd to give back . 
Go in ! she cried to the crowd , which now amounted to twenty or thirty , and they began to pass through . 
It was not to be stirred , however , and when the woman shouted up to unhook it , he answered It's already unhooked . 
There's somebody sitting on it ! And a moment later came a voice from downstairs You might as well quit , you people . 
We mean business , this time . 
So the crowd subsided and a few moments later several policemen came up , staring here and there , and leering at their victims . 
Of the latter the men were for the most part frightened and sheepish looking . 
On the floor below four or five other girls sat upon trunks in the hall , making fun of the procession which filed by them . 
For a second or two they stood staring at each other . 
How did you come here ? Marija exclaimed . 
I came to see you , he answered . 
But how did you know who told you I was here ? Alena Jasaityte . 
I met her on the street . 
Again there was a silence , while they gazed at each other . 
The rest of the crowd was watching them , and so Marija got up and came closer to him . 
And you ? Jurgis asked . 
You live here ? Yes , said Marija , I live here . 
Then suddenly came a hail from below Get your clothes on now , girls , and come along . 
You'd best begin , or you'll be sorry it's raining outside . 
Br r r ! shivered some one , and the women got up and entered the various doors which lined the hallway . 
Marija had nothing on but a kimono and a pair of stockings yet she proceeded to dress before Jurgis , and without even taking the trouble to close the door . 
They had always been decent people at home , and it seemed to him that the memory of old times ought to have ruled her . 
But then he laughed at himself for a fool . 
What was he , to be pretending to decency ! How long have you been living here ? he asked . 
Nearly a year , she answered . 
Why did you come ? I had to live , she said and I couldn't see the children starve . 
He paused for a moment , watching her . 
You were out of work ? he asked , finally . 
I got sick , she replied . 
and after that I had no money . 
And then Stanislovas died Stanislovas dead ! Yes , said Marija , I forgot . 
You didn't know about it . 
How did he die ? Rats killed him , she answered . 
Rats killed him ! Yes , said the other she was bending over , lacing her shoes as she spoke . 
He was working in an oil factory at least he was hired by the men to get their beer . 
When they found him the rats had killed him and eaten him nearly all up . 
Jurgis sat , frozen with horror . 
Marija went on lacing up her shoes . 
There was a long silence . 
Suddenly a big policeman came to the door . 
Hurry up , there , he said . 
As quick as I can , said Marija , and she stood up and began putting on her corsets with feverish haste . 
Are the rest of the people alive ? asked Jurgis , finally . 
Where are they ? They live not far from here . 
They are working ? he inquired . 
Elzbieta is , said Marija , when she can . 
I take care of them most of the time I'm making plenty of money now . 
Jurgis was silent for a moment . 
Do they know you live here how you live ? he asked . 
Elzbieta knows , answered Marija . 
I couldn't lie to her . 
And maybe the children have found out by this time . 
It's nothing to be ashamed of we can't help it . 
And Tamoszius ? he asked . 
Does he know ? Marija shrugged her shoulders . 
How do I know ? she said . 
I haven't seen him for over a year . 
He got blood poisoning and lost one finger , and couldn't play the violin any more and then he went away . 
Marija was standing in front of the glass fastening her dress . 
Jurgis sat staring at her . 
He could hardly believe that she was the same woman he had known in the old days she was so quiet so hard ! It struck fear to his heart to watch her . 
Then suddenly she gave a glance at him . 
You look as if you had been having a rough time of it yourself , she said . 
I have , he answered . 
I haven't a cent in my pockets , and nothing to do . 
Where have you been ? All over . 
Then I went back to the yards just before the strike . 
He paused for a moment , hesitating . 
I asked for you , he added . 
I found you had gone away , no one knew where . 
Perhaps you think I did you a dirty trick . 
running away as I did , Marija No , she answered , I don't blame you . 
We never have any of us . 
You did your best the job was too much for us . 
She paused a moment , then added We were too ignorant that was the trouble . 
We didn't stand any chance . 
If I'd known what I know now we'd have won out . 
You'd have come here ? said Jurgis . 
Yes , she answered but that's not what I meant . 
I meant you how differently you would have behaved about Ona . 
Jurgis was silent he had never thought of that aspect of it . 
When people are starving , the other continued , and they have anything with a price , they ought to sell it , I say . 
I guess you realize it now when it's too late . 
Ona could have taken care of us all , in the beginning . 
Marija spoke without emotion , as one who had come to regard things from the business point of view . 
I yes , I guess so , Jurgis answered hesitatingly . 
He did not add that he had paid three hundred dollars , and a foreman's job , for the satisfaction of knocking down Phil Connor a second time . 
The policeman came to the door again just then . 
Come on , now , he said . 
Lively ! All right , said Marija , reaching for her hat , which was big enough to be a drum major's , and full of ostrich feathers . 
The raid , you mean ? Oh , nothing it happens to us every now and then . 
The madame's having some sort of time with the police I don't know what it is , but maybe they'll come to terms before morning . 
Anyhow , they won't do anything to you . 
They always let the men off . 
Maybe so , he responded , but not me I'm afraid I'm in for it . 
How do you mean ? I'm wanted by the police , he said , lowering his voice , though of course their conversation was in Lithuanian . 
They'll send me up for a year or two , I'm afraid . 
I'll see if I can't get you off . 
Downstairs , where the greater part of the prisoners were now massed , she sought out the stout personage with the diamond earrings , and had a few whispered words with her . 
The latter then approached the police sergeant who was in charge of the raid . 
Billy , she said , pointing to Jurgis , there's a fellow who came in to see his sister . 
He'd just got in the door when you knocked . 
You aren't taking hoboes , are you ? The sergeant laughed as he looked at Jurgis . 
Sorry , he said , but the orders are every one but the servants . 
So Jurgis slunk in among the rest of the men , who kept dodging behind each other like sheep that have smelled a wolf . 
When the roundup was completed , the doors were opened and the party marched out . 
Three patrol wagons were drawn up at the curb , and the whole neighborhood had turned out to see the sport there was much chaffing , and a universal craning of necks . 
The women stared about them with defiant eyes , or laughed and joked , while the men kept their heads bowed , and their hats pulled over their faces . 
They were crowded into the patrol wagons as if into streetcars , and then off they went amid a din of cheers . 
Jurgis had looked into the deepest reaches of the social pit , and grown used to the sights in them . 
Yet when he had thought of all humanity as vile and hideous , he had somehow always excepted his own family . 
The depths of him were troubled and shaken , memories were stirred in him that had been sleeping so long he had counted them dead . 
He saw little Antanas , whom he had meant to make a man . 
He saw his trembling old father , who had blessed them all with his wonderful love . 
Their voices would die , and never again would he hear them and so the last faint spark of manhood in his soul would flicker out . 
The men were called up first , and reprimanded in a bunch , and then dismissed but , Jurgis to his terror , was called separately , as being a suspicious looking case . 
It was in this very same court that he had been tried , that time when his sentence had been suspended it was the same judge , and the same clerk . 
Jurgis waited outside and walked home with Marija . 
The police had left the house , and already there were a few visitors by evening the place would be running again , exactly as if nothing had happened . 
Meantime , Marija took Jurgis upstairs to her room , and they sat and talked . 
Have you been sick ? he asked . 
How can I ever be anything but sick , at this life ? She fell silent for a moment , staring ahead of her gloomily . 
It's morphine , she said , at last . 
I seem to take more of it every day . 
What's that for ? he asked . 
It's the way of it I don't know why . 
If it isn't that , it's drink . 
If the girls didn't booze they couldn't stand it any time at all . 
I've got it , I know I've tried to quit , but I never will while I'm here . 
How long are you going to stay ? he asked . 
I don't know , she said . 
What else could I do ? Don't you save any money ? Save ! said Marija . 
Good Lord , no ! I get enough , I suppose , but it all goes . 
It's all I can do to save the fifteen dollars I give Elzbieta each week , so the children can go to school . 
So she stays , and the longer she stays , the more in debt she gets . 
Often , too , they are girls that didn't know what they were coming to , that had hired out for housework . 
Did you notice that little French girl with the yellow hair , that stood next to me in the court ? Jurgis answered in the affirmative . 
Well , she came to America about a year ago . 
She was a store clerk , and she hired herself to a man to be sent here to work in a factory . 
She never got outside of that place for ten months , and then they sent her away , because she didn't suit . 
I guess they'll put her out of here , too she's getting to have crazy fits , from drinking absinthe . 
Only one of the girls that came out with her got away , and she jumped out of a second story window one night . 
There was a great fuss about that maybe you heard of it . 
I did , said Jurgis , I heard of it afterward . 
There's lots of money in it , said Marija they get as much as forty dollars a head for girls , and they bring them from all over . 
There are seventeen in this place , and nine different countries among them . 
In some places you might find even more . 
We have half a dozen French girls I suppose it's because the madame speaks the language . 
French girls are bad , too , the worst of all , except for the Japanese . 
There's a place next door that's full of Japanese women , but I wouldn't live in the same house with one of them . 
Marija paused for a moment or two , and then she added Most of the women here are pretty decent you'd be surprised . 
I know , said she they say anything . 
They're in , and they know they can't get out . 
Tell me about yourself , Jurgis , she said , suddenly . 
Marija listened with sympathy it was easy to believe the tale of his late starvation , for his face showed it all . 
You found me just in the nick of time , she said . 
I'll stand by you I'll help you till you can get some work . 
I don't like to let you he began . 
Why not ? Because I'm here ? No , not that , he said . 
But I went off and left you Nonsense ! said Marija . 
You must be hungry , she said , after a minute or two . 
You stay here to lunch I'll have something up in the room . 
She pressed a button , and a colored woman came to the door and took her order . 
It's nice to have somebody to wait on you , she observed , with a laugh , as she lay back on the bed . 
As the prison breakfast had not been liberal , Jurgis had a good appetite , and they had a little feast together , talking meanwhile of Elzbieta and the children and old times . 
Shortly before they were through , there came another colored girl , with the message that the madame wanted Marija Lithuanian Mary , as they called her here . 
That means you have to go , she said to Jurgis . 
So he got up , and she gave him the new address of the family , a tenement over in the Ghetto district . 
You go there , she said . 
They'll be glad to see you . 
I I don't like to , he said . 
Honest , Marija , why don't you just give me a little money and let me look for work first ? How do you need money ? was her reply . 
What are you talking ? I won't give you money , she added , as she followed him to the door , because you'll drink it up , and do yourself harm . 
Here's a quarter for you now , and go along , and they'll be so glad to have you back , you won't have time to feel ashamed . 
Good by ! So Jurgis went out , and walked down the street to think it over . 
He decided that he would first try to get work , and so he put in the rest of the day wandering here and there among factories and warehouses without success . 
There was no red fire and no band now , but there was a sign out , announcing a meeting , and a stream of people pouring in through the entrance . 
In a flash Jurgis had decided that he would chance it once more , and sit down and rest while making up his mind what to do . 
There was no one taking tickets , so it must be a free show again . 
There were no decorations in the hall this time but there was quite a crowd upon the platform , and almost every seat in the place was filled . 
He took one of the last , far in the rear , and straightway forgot all about his surroundings . 
A tremendous roar had burst from the throats of the crowd , which by this time had packed the hall to the very doors . 
Men and women were standing up , waving handkerchiefs , shouting , yelling . 
He went back to his thoughts , but with one further fact to reckon with that he was caught here . 
Perhaps it would be better to go home in the morning , anyway , for the children would be at school , and he and Elzbieta could have a quiet explanation . 
She always had been a reasonable person and he really did mean to do right . 
He would manage to persuade her of it and besides , Marija was willing , and Marija was furnishing the money . 
If Elzbieta were ugly , he would tell her that in so many words . 
He imagined the angry exclamations , the hostile glances he imagined the policeman striding toward him reaching for his neck . 
Jurgis was more startled by that than he would have been by the touch of a policeman . 
He still kept his eyes fixed ahead , and did not stir but his heart gave a great leap . 
She was young and beautiful she wore fine clothes , and was what is called a lady . 
And she called him comrade ! He turned a little , carefully , so that he could see her better then he began to watch her , fascinated . 
She had apparently forgotten all about him , and was looking toward the platform . 
A man was speaking there Jurgis heard his voice vaguely but all his thoughts were for this woman's face . 
A feeling of alarm stole over him as he stared at her . 
It made his flesh creep . 
There was a look of excitement upon her face , of tense effort , as of one struggling mightily , or witnessing a struggle . 
There was a faint quivering of her nostrils and now and then she would moisten her lips with feverish haste . 
Her bosom rose and fell as she breathed , and her excitement seemed to mount higher and higher , and then to sink away again , like a boat tossing upon ocean surges . 
What was it ? What was the matter ? It must be something that the man was saying , up there on the platform . 
What sort of a man was he ? And what sort of thing was this , anyhow ? So all at once it occurred to Jurgis to look at the speaker . 
It was like coming suddenly upon some wild sight of nature a mountain forest lashed by a tempest , a ship tossed about upon a stormy sea . 
Jurgis had an unpleasant sensation , a sense of confusion , of disorder , of wild and meaningless uproar . 
To hear it was to be suddenly arrested , to be gripped , transfixed . 
You listen to these things , the man was saying , and you say , 'Yes , they are true , but they have been that way always . 
Or you say , 'Maybe it will come , but not in my time it will not help me . 
There was an instant of silence , while men caught their breaths , and then like a single sound there came a cry from a thousand people . 
Through it all Jurgis sat still , motionless and rigid , his eyes fixed upon the speaker he was trembling , smitten with wonder . 
Suddenly the man raised his hands , and silence fell , and he began again . 
It is to you that I come with my message of salvation , it is to you that I appeal . 
I have known what it is to be a street waif , a bootblack , living upon a crust of bread and sleeping in cellar stairways and under empty wagons . 
Here in this city to night ten thousand women are shut up in foul pens , and driven by hunger to sell their bodies to live . 
There are a thousand ten thousand , maybe who are the masters of these slaves , who own their toil . 
They do nothing to earn what they receive , they do not even have to ask for it it comes to them of itself , their only care is to dispose of it . 
They live in palaces , they riot in luxury and extravagance such as no words can describe , as makes the imagination reel and stagger , makes the soul grow sick and faint . 
The audience came to its feet with a yell men waved their arms , laughing aloud in their excitement . 
And Jurgis was with them , he was shouting to tear his throat shouting because he could not help it , because the stress of his feeling was more than he could bear . 
It was not merely the man's words , the torrent of his eloquence . 
All that he had ever felt in his whole life seemed to come back to him at once , and with one new emotion , hardly to be described . 
The applause continued for several minutes and then some one started a song , and the crowd took it up , and the place shook with it . 
He had never been so stirred in his life it was a miracle that had been wrought in him . 
He could not think at all , he was stunned yet he knew that in the mighty upheaval that had taken place in his soul , a new man had been born . 
The audience subsided again , and Jurgis sat back . 
The chairman of the meeting came forward and began to speak . 
His voice sounded thin and futile after the other's , and to Jurgis it seemed a profanation . 
Jurgis heard but he had not a penny to give , and so his thoughts went elsewhere again . 
He kept his eyes fixed on the orator , who sat in an armchair , his head leaning on his hand and his attitude indicating exhaustion . 
But suddenly he stood up again , and Jurgis heard the chairman of the meeting saying that the speaker would now answer any questions which the audience might care to put to him . 
The man came forward , and some one a woman arose and asked about some opinion the speaker had expressed concerning Tolstoy . 
Jurgis had never heard of Tolstoy , and did not care anything about him . 
He had not thought of leaving he had thought that the vision must last forever , that he had found comrades and brothers . 
He was near enough to the door to feel the night air , when desperation seized him . 
The speaker was gone but there was a stage door that stood open , with people passing in and out , and no one on guard . 
Jurgis summoned up his courage and went in , and down a hallway , and to the door of a room where many people were crowded . 
No one paid any attention to him , and he pushed in , and in a corner he saw the man he sought . 
There seemed to be a slight hint of inquiry about it , and a sudden impulse seized the other . 
I wanted to thank you , sir ! he began , in breathless haste . 
I could not go away without telling you how much how glad I am I heard you . 
I I didn't know anything about it all The big man with the spectacles , who had moved away , came back at this moment . 
The comrade is too tired to talk to any one he began but the other held up his hand . 
He has something to say to me . 
And then he looked into Jurgis's face . 
You want to know more about Socialism ? he asked . 
Is it Socialism ? I didn't know . 
I want to know about what you spoke of I want to help . 
I have been through all that . 
Where do you live ? asked the other . 
I have no home , said Jurgis , I am out of work . 
You are a foreigner , are you not ? Lithuanian , sir . 
The man thought for a moment , and then turned to his friend . 
Who is there , Walters ? he asked . 
There is Ostrinski but he is a Pole Ostrinski speaks Lithuanian , said the other . 
All right , then would you mind seeing if he has gone yet ? The other started away , and the speaker looked at Jurgis again . 
He had deep , black eyes , and a face full of gentleness and pain . 
You must excuse me , comrade , he said . 
I am just tired out I have spoken every day for the last month . 
Comrade Ostrinski was a little man , scarcely up to Jurgis's shoulder , wizened and wrinkled , very ugly , and slightly lame . 
But his handclasp was hearty , and he spoke in Lithuanian , which warmed Jurgis to him . 
You want to know about Socialism ? he said . 
Let us go out and take a stroll , where we can be quiet and talk some . 
And so Jurgis bade farewell to the master wizard , and went out . 
Ostrinski asked where he lived , offering to walk in that direction and so he had to explain once more that he was without a home . 
So much the little man heard , and then he pressed Jurgis's arm tightly . 
You have been through the mill , comrade ! he said . 
We will make a fighter out of you ! Then Ostrinski in turn explained his circumstances . 
He would have asked Jurgis to his home but he had only two rooms , and had no bed to offer . 
He would have given up his own bed , but his wife was ill . 
Perhaps tomorrow we can do better , said Ostrinski . 
We try not to let a comrade starve . 
Ostrinski's home was in the Ghetto district , where he had two rooms in the basement of a tenement . 
There was a baby crying as they entered , and he closed the door leading into the bedroom . 
He had three young children , he explained , and a baby had just come . 
He drew up two chairs near the kitchen stove , adding that Jurgis must excuse the disorder of the place , since at such a time one's domestic arrangements were upset . 
Half of the kitchen was given up to a workbench , which was piled with clothing , and Ostrinski explained that he was a pants finisher . 
He brought great bundles of clothing here to his home , where he and his wife worked on them . 
He made a living at it , but it was getting harder all the time , because his eyes were failing . 
What would come when they gave out he could not tell there had been no saving anything a man could barely keep alive by twelve or fourteen hours' work a day . 
The finishing of pants did not take much skill , and anybody could learn it , and so the pay was forever getting less . 
That was the competitive wage system and if Jurgis wanted to understand what Socialism was , it was there he had best begin . 
And thus the mass of the people were always in a life and death struggle with poverty . 
It was a slow and weary process , but it would go on it was like the movement of a glacier , once it was started it could never be stopped . 
Also he had always the progress to encourage him here in Chicago , for instance , the movement was growing by leaps and bounds . 
Ostrinski explained the organization of the party , the machinery by which the proletariat was educating itself . 
Local Cook County , as the city organization was called , had eighty branch locals , and it alone was spending several thousand dollars in the campaign . 
All this was the growth of the last few years there had been almost nothing of it when Ostrinski first came to Chicago . 
Ostrinski was a Pole , about fifty years of age . 
Ostrinski himself had twice been in jail , but he had been young then , and had not cared . 
In America every one had laughed at the mere idea of Socialism then in America all men were free . 
As if political liberty made wage slavery any the more tolerable ! said Ostrinski . 
Just now Jurgis would have plenty of chance to vent his excitement , for a presidential campaign was on , and everybody was talking politics . 
Ostrinski would take him to the next meeting of the branch local , and introduce him , and he might join the party . 
The dues were five cents a week , but any one who could not afford this might be excused from paying . 
The Socialist party was a really democratic political organization it was controlled absolutely by its own membership , and had no bosses . 
All of these things Ostrinski explained , as also the principles of the party . 
You might say that there was really but one Socialist principle that of no compromise , which was the essence of the proletarian movement all over the world . 
The Socialists were organized in every civilized nation it was an international political party , said Ostrinski , the greatest the world had ever known . 
It numbered thirty million of adherents , and it cast eight million votes . 
In Germany , where its vote was more than a third of the total vote of the empire , all other parties and powers had united to fight it . 
It was the new religion of humanity or you might say it was the fulfillment of the old religion , since it implied but the literal application of all the teachings of Christ . 
Until long after midnight Jurgis sat lost in the conversation of his new acquaintance . 
It was a most wonderful experience to him an almost supernatural experience . 
It was like encountering an inhabitant of the fourth dimension of space , a being who was free from all one's own limitations . 
They were a gigantic combination of capital , which had crushed all opposition , and overthrown the laws of the land , and was preying upon the people . 
What the hog thought of it , and what he suffered , were not considered and no more was it with labor , and no more with the purchaser of meat . 
It was a monster devouring with a thousand mouths , trampling with a thousand hoofs it was the Great Butcher it was the spirit of Capitalism made flesh . 
Upon the ocean of commerce it sailed as a pirate ship it had hoisted the black flag and declared war upon civilization . 
Bribery and corruption were its everyday methods . 
In the commercial world it was a Juggernaut car it wiped out thousands of businesses every year , it drove men to madness and suicide . 
When , however , she had satisfied herself that he was sane upon all subjects except politics , she troubled herself no further about it . 
Jurgis was destined to find that Elzbieta's armor was absolutely impervious to Socialism . 
A wonderfully wise little woman was Elzbieta she could think as quickly as a hunted rabbit , and in half an hour she had chosen her life attitude to the Socialist movement . 
For a week after he became a convert Jurgis continued to wander about all day , looking for work until at last he met with a strange fortune . 
He was passing one of Chicago's innumerable small hotels , and after some hesitation he concluded to go in . 
A man he took for the proprietor was standing in the lobby , and he went up to him and tackled him for a job . 
What can you do ? the man asked . 
Anything , sir , said Jurgis , and added quickly I've been out of work for a long time , sir . 
I'm an honest man , and I'm strong and willing The other was eying him narrowly . 
Do you drink ? he asked . 
No , sir , said Jurgis . 
Well , I've been employing a man as a porter , and he drinks . 
I've discharged him seven times now , and I've about made up my mind that's enough . 
Would you be a porter ? Yes , sir . 
You'll have to clean floors and wash spittoons and fill lamps and handle trunks I'm willing , sir . 
I'll pay you thirty a month and board , and you can begin now , if you feel like it . 
You can put on the other fellow's rig . 
And so Jurgis fell to work , and toiled like a Trojan till night . 
Then he went and told Elzbieta , and also , late as it was , he paid a visit to Ostrinski to let him know of his good fortune . 
Here he received a great surprise , for when he was describing the location of the hotel Ostrinski interrupted suddenly , Not Hinds's ! Yes , said Jurgis , that's the name . 
By Jove ! he cried , that lets me out . 
Tommy Hinds , as he was known to his intimates , was a squat little man , with broad shoulders and a florid face , decorated with gray side whiskers . 
He was the kindest hearted man that ever lived , and the liveliest inexhaustible in his enthusiasm , and talking Socialism all day and all night . 
To a musket that broke in a crisis he always attributed the death of his only brother , and upon worthless blankets he blamed all the agonies of his own old age . 
He had gone into business , and found himself in competition with the fortunes of those who had been stealing while he had been fighting . 
He had been that all his life he had fought the railroads in Kansas for fifty years , a Granger , a Farmers' Alliance man , a middle of the road Populist . 
Finally , Tommy Hinds had revealed to him the wonderful idea of using the trusts instead of destroying them , and he had sold his farm and come to Chicago . 
That was Amos Struver and then there was Harry Adams , the assistant clerk , a pale , scholarly looking man , who came from Massachusetts , of Pilgrim stock . 
Adams had been a cotton operative in Fall River , and the continued depression in the industry had worn him and his family out , and he had emigrated to South Carolina . 
In the states of the far South the labor of convicts is leased to contractors , and when there are not convicts enough they have to be supplied . 
Contrary to what one would have expected , all this radicalism did not hurt the hotel business the radicals flocked to it , and the commercial travelers all found it diverting . 
Of late , also , the hotel had become a favorite stopping place for Western cattlemen . 
These Western fellows were just meat for Tommy Hinds he would get a dozen of them around him and paint little pictures of the System . 
Of course , it was not a week before he had heard Jurgis's story , and after that he would not have let his new porter go for the world . 
If you were a Socialist , the hotelkeeper would say , you would understand that the power which really governs the United States today is the Railroad Trust . 
It is the Railroad Trust that runs your state government , wherever you live , and that runs the United States Senate . 
Perhaps you would imagine that he did not do much work there , but that would be a great mistake . 
He would have cut off one hand for Tommy Hinds and to keep Hinds's hotel a thing of beauty was his joy in life . 
It would be pleasant to record that he swore off drinking immediately , and all the rest of his bad habits with it but that would hardly be exact . 
These revolutionists were not angels they were men , and men who had come up from the social pit , and with the mire of it smeared over them . 
You must keep at the poor fellow you must hold your temper , and argue with him , and watch for your chance to stick an idea or two into his head . 
So Jurgis acquired the reading habit . 
Also he read the newspapers , and asked questions about them . 
Then at night , when he could get off , Jurgis would attend the Socialist meetings . 
These discussed the political situation from every point of view , and all that troubled Jurgis was the impossibility of carrying off but a small part of the treasures they offered him . 
There was a man who was known in the party as the Little Giant . 
All these things he pictured in his books , and because he was a man of genius he forced the world to hear him . 
Now he was famous , but wherever he went he still preached the gospel of the poor . 
And then there was one who was known at the millionaire Socialist . 
He was a quiet mannered man , whom you would have taken for anything in the world but a Socialist agitator . 
His speech was simple and informal he could not understand why any one should get excited about these things . 
It was a process of economic evolution , he said , and he exhibited its laws and methods . 
Life was a struggle for existence , and the strong overcame the weak , and in turn were overcome by the strongest . 
Those who lost in the struggle were generally exterminated but now and then they had been known to save themselves by combination which was a new and higher kind of strength . 
It was so that the gregarious animals had overcome the predaceous it was so , in human history , that the people had mastered the kings . 
The workers were simply the citizens of industry , and the Socialist movement was the expression of their will to survive . 
And later on came the evening of the great meeting of the campaign , when Jurgis heard the two standard bearers of his party . 
He was a man of electric presence , tall and gaunt , with a face worn thin by struggle and suffering . 
The fury of outraged manhood gleamed in it and the tears of suffering little children pleaded in his voice . 
When he spoke he paced the stage , lithe and eager , like a panther . 
He leaned over , reaching out for his audience he pointed into their souls with an insistent finger . 
His voice was husky from much speaking , but the great auditorium was as still as death , and every one heard him . 
There had come a time when he had to set his own type , but he had held on and won out , and now his publication was an institution . 
It used a carload of paper every week , and the mail trains would be hours loading up at the depot of the little Kansas town . 
The Appeal was a propaganda paper . 
It collected the stories of graft and misery from the daily press , and made a little pungent paragraphs out of them . 
That's the kind of rulers the old partyites give you ! The president of the Florida Flying Machine Company is in jail for bigamy . 
But sometimes , again , the Appeal would be desperately serious . 
It sent a correspondent to Colorado , and printed pages describing the overthrow of American institutions in that state . 
You have lost the strike ! it was headed . 
And now what are you going to do about it ? It was what is called an incendiary appeal it was written by a man into whose soul the iron had entered . 
The people of Packingtown had lost their strike , if ever a people had , and so they read these papers gladly , and twenty thousand were hardly enough to go round . 
This meeting they advertised extensively , and the Socialists advertised it too with the result that about a thousand of them were on hand that evening . 
The pitchfork senator stood their fusillade of questions for about an hour , and then went home in disgust , and the balance of the meeting was a strictly party affair . 
Chapter One of the first things that Jurgis had done after he got a job was to go and see Marija . 
But Marija only shook her head . 
There was nothing else for her to do , she said , and nobody to employ her . 
She could not keep her past a secret girls had tried it , and they were always found out . 
There were thousands of men who came to this place , and sooner or later she would meet one of them . 
And besides , Marija added , I can't do anything . 
I'm no good I take dope . 
What could you do with me ? Can't you stop ? Jurgis cried . 
No , she answered , I'll never stop . 
What's the use of talking about it I'll stay here till I die , I guess . 
It's all I'm fit for . 
And that was all that he could get her to say there was no use trying . 
When he told her he would not let Elzbieta take her money , she answered indifferently Then it'll be wasted here that's all . 
Her eyelids looked heavy and her face was red and swollen he saw that he was annoying her , that she only wanted him to go away . 
So he went , disappointed and sad . 
Poor Jurgis was not very happy in his home life . 
Elzbieta was sick a good deal now , and the boys were wild and unruly , and very much the worse for their life upon the streets . 
But he stuck by the family nevertheless , for they reminded him of his old happiness and when things went wrong he could solace himself with a plunge into the Socialist movement . 
The millionaire suggested that Adams bring Jurgis along , and then start up the subject of pure food , in which the editor was interested . 
Young Fisher's home was a little two story brick house , dingy and weather beaten outside , but attractive within . 
Seven or eight people were gathered about it when Adams and his friend arrived , and Jurgis saw to his dismay that three of them were ladies . 
He had never talked to people of this sort before , and he fell into an agony of embarrassment . 
He was terrified lest they should expect him to talk . 
There was the host himself , a tall , athletic young man , clad in evening dress , as also was the editor , a dyspeptic looking gentleman named Maynard . 
He traveled all over the country , living like the apostles of old , upon hospitality , and preaching upon street corners when there was no hall . 
The other man had been in the midst of a discussion with the editor when Adams and Jurgis came in and at the suggestion of the host they resumed it after the interruption . 
Jurgis was soon sitting spellbound , thinking that here was surely the strangest man that had ever lived in the world . 
Instead he had come to America , where he lived in a garret room in this slum district , and made volcanic energy take the place of fire . 
And when the auditor had asserted his non comprehension , he would proceed to elucidate by some new proposition , yet more appalling . 
To Jurgis the Herr Dr . 
Schliemann assumed the proportions of a thunderstorm or an earthquake . 
And yet , strange as it might seem , there was a subtle bond between them , and he could follow the argument nearly all the time . 
He was carried over the difficult places in spite of himself and he went plunging away in mad career a very Mazeppa ride upon the wild horse Speculation . 
Nicholas Schliemann was familiar with all the universe , and with man as a small part of it . 
He understood human institutions , and blew them about like soap bubbles . 
It was surprising that so much destructiveness could be contained in one human mind . 
Was it government ? The purpose of government was the guarding of property rights , the perpetuation of ancient force and modern fraud . 
Or was it marriage ? Marriage and prostitution were two sides of one shield , the predatory man's exploitation of the sex pleasure . 
The difference between them was a difference of class . 
If a woman had money she might dictate her own terms equality , a life contract , and the legitimacy that is , the property rights of her children . 
If she had no money , she was a proletarian , and sold herself for an existence . 
And then the subject became Religion , which was the Archfiend's deadliest weapon . 
Government oppressed the body of the wage slave , but Religion oppressed his mind , and poisoned the stream of progress at its source . 
Comrade Lucas was not what is called an educated man he knew only the Bible , but it was the Bible interpreted by real experience . 
I am not defending the Vatican , exclaimed Lucas , vehemently . 
I am defending the word of God which is one long cry of the human spirit for deliverance from the sway of oppression . 
But the other was in full career he had talked this subject every day for five years , and had never yet let himself be stopped . 
This Jesus of Nazareth ! he cried . 
Petersburg now , he would take the whip with which he drove out the bankers from his temple Here the speaker paused an instant for breath . 
No , comrade , said the other , dryly , for he was a practical man . 
Lucas waited until the company had stopped laughing over this then he began again But look at it from the point of view of practical politics , comrade . 
Here is an historical figure whom all men reverence and love , whom some regard as divine and who was one of us who lived our life , and taught our doctrine . 
Here , comrade , he said , with a laugh , here is a place for you to begin . 
Thus far they were at one but no farther . 
To Lucas , the religious zealot , the co operative commonwealth was the New Jerusalem , the kingdom of Heaven , which is within you . 
To the other , Socialism was simply a necessary step toward a far distant goal , a step to be tolerated with impatience . 
There was only one earth , and the quantity of material things was limited . 
And then , explained Schliemann , society would break up into independent , self governing communities of mutually congenial persons examples of which at present were clubs , churches , and political parties . 
If any one wanted to work or paint or pray , and could find no one to maintain him , he could support himself by working part of the time . 
And then the editor wanted to know upon what ground Dr . 
Schliemann asserted that it might be possible for a society to exist upon an hour's toil by each of its members . 
You understand , he said , that in a society dominated by the fact of commercial competition , money is necessarily the test of prowess , and wastefulness the sole criterion of power . 
And bear in mind also that this monstrous disease affects not merely the idlers and their menials , its poison penetrates the whole social body . 
Of course , imitation and adulteration are the essence of competition they are but another form of the phrase 'to buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest . 
Then again , consider the waste of time and energy required to sell these things in a dozen stores , where one would do . 
The Cooperative Commonwealth is a universal automatic insurance company and savings bank for all its members . 
Capital being the property of all , injury to it is shared by all and made up by all . 
The bank is the universal government credit account , the ledger in which every individual's earnings and spendings ate balanced . 
There is also a universal government bulletin , in which are listed and precisely described everything which the commonwealth has for sale . 
How is the price of an article determined ? The price is the labor it has cost to make and deliver it , and it is determined by the first principles of arithmetic . 
If we employ an arbitrary symbol , and pay , say , five dollars a day for farm work , then the cost of a bushel of wheat is fifty cents . 
You say 'for farm work , said Mr. Maynard . 
And the author ? I have already said that the state could not control intellectual production . 
The state might say that it had taken a year to write the book , and the author might say it had taken thirty . 
Goethe said that every bon mot of his had cost a purse of gold . 
What I outline here is a national , or rather international , system for the providing of the material needs of men . 
Since a man has intellectual needs also , he will work longer , earn more , and provide for them to his own taste and in his own way . 
I wish such things to be left to free effort , as at present . 
In the same way there are magazines about Egyptian coins , and Catholic saints , and flying machines , and athletic records , and I know nothing about any of them . 
Schliemann paused for a moment . 
That was a lecture , he said with a laugh , and yet I am only begun ! What else is there ? asked Maynard . 
I have pointed out some of the negative wastes of competition , answered the other . 
I have hardly mentioned the positive economies of co operation . 
Now set aside the modern system of pneumatic house cleaning , and the economies of co operative cooking and consider one single item , the washing of dishes . 
But what of that , so long as it tickles the palate more strongly ? How would Socialism change that ? asked the girl student , quickly . 
It was the first time she had spoken . 
But just as soon as labor is set free , then the price of such work will begin to rise . 
And here the Herr Doctor relapsed into silence again . 
Jurgis would have liked to talk to her , he felt sure that she would have understood him . 
But already there were people waiting , and already the telegraph instrument on the stage had begun clicking off the returns . 
When the final accounts were made up , the Socialist vote proved to be over four hundred thousand an increase of something like three hundred and fifty per cent in four years . 
There were literally hundreds of such towns there would be reports from half a dozen of them in a single batch of telegrams . 
Packingtown comprised three wards of the city , and the vote in the spring of had been , and in the fall of the same year , , . 
The orator had been the head of the city's relief bureau in the stockyards , until the sight of misery and corruption had made him sick . 
He was young , hungry looking , full of fire and as he swung his long arms and beat up the crowd , to Jurgis he seemed the very spirit of the revolution . 
Organize ! Organize ! Organize ! that was his cry . 
He was afraid of this tremendous vote , which his party had not expected , and which it had not earned . 
These men are not Socialists ! he cried . 
