JUST DAVID BY ELEANOR H. HODGMAN PORTER AUTHOR POLLYANNA , MISS BILLY MARRIED , ETC . 
TO MY FRIEND Mrs. James Harness CONTENTS I. THE MOUNTAIN HOME II . 
TWO LETTERS V. DISCORDS VI . 
NUISANCES , NECESSARY AND OTHERWISE VII . 
YOU'RE WANTED YOU'RE WANTED ! VIII . 
THE PUZZLING DOS AND DON'TS IX . 
JOE X. THE LADY OF THE ROSES XI . 
ANSWERS THAT DID NOT ANSWER XIII . 
DAVID'S CASTLE IN SPAIN XVII . 
THE PRINCESS AND THE PAUPER XVIII . 
DAVID TO THE RESCUE XIX . 
AS PERRY SAW IT XXIII . 
THE BEAUTIFUL WORLD CHAPTER I THE MOUNTAIN HOME Far up on the mountain side stood alone in the clearing . 
It was roughly yet warmly built . 
Behind it jagged cliffs broke the north wind , and towered gray white in the sunshine . 
Before it a tiny expanse of green sloped gently away to a point where the mountain dropped in another sharp descent , wooded with scrubby firs and pines . 
At the left a footpath led into the cool depths of the forest . 
There was no road , apparently , leading away from the cabin . 
There was only the footpath that disappeared into the forest . 
Neither , anywhere , was there a house in sight nearer than the white specks far down in the valley by the river . 
Within the shack a wide fireplace dominated one side of the main room . 
The furnishings of the room were simple , yet , in a way , out of the common . 
Nowhere was there cushion , curtain , or knickknack that told of a woman's taste or touch . 
On the other hand , neither was there anywhere gun , pelt , or antlered head that spoke of a man's strength and skill . 
From the little lean to kitchen the sound of the sputtering suddenly ceased , and at the door appeared a pair of dark , wistful eyes . 
Daddy ! called the owner of the eyes . 
Father , are you there ? called the voice , more insistently . 
From one of the bunks came a slight stir and a murmured word . 
At the sound the boy at the door leaped softly into the room and hurried to the bunk in the corner . 
He was a slender lad with short , crisp curls at his ears , and the red of perfect health in his cheeks . 
His hands , slim , long , and with tapering fingers like a girl's , reached forward eagerly . 
Daddy , come ! I've done the bacon all myself , and the potatoes and the coffee , too . 
Quick , it's all getting cold ! Slowly , with the aid of the boy's firm hands , the man pulled himself half to a sitting posture . 
His cheeks , like the boy's , were red but not with health . 
His eyes were a little wild , but his voice was low and very tender , like a caress . 
David it's my little son David ! Of course it's David ! Who else should it be ? laughed the boy . 
Come ! And he tugged at the man's hands . 
The man rose then , unsteadily , and by sheer will forced himself to stand upright . 
The wild look left his eyes , and the flush his cheeks . 
His face looked suddenly old and haggard . 
Yet with fairly sure steps he crossed the room and entered the little kitchen . 
Half of the bacon was black the other half was transparent and like tough jelly . 
The potatoes were soggy , and had the unmistakable taste that comes from a dish that has boiled dry . 
The coffee was lukewarm and muddy . 
Even the milk was sour . 
David laughed a little ruefully . 
Things aren't so nice as yours , father , he apologized . 
I forgot and left the milk in the sun , and it tastes bad now but I'm sure next time it'll be better all of it . 
The man smiled , but he shook his head sadly . 
But there ought not to be any 'next time , David . 
Why not ? What do you mean ? Aren't you ever going to let me try again , father ? There was real distress in the boy's voice . 
His lips parted with an indrawn breath , as if behind them lay a rush of words . 
But they closed abruptly , the words still unsaid . 
I think I feel my appetite coming back . 
If the truant appetite came back , however , it could not have stayed for the man ate but little . 
He frowned , too , as he saw how little the boy ate . 
Unless it stormed very hard , David never went to bed without this last look at his Silver Lake , as he called the little sheet of water far down in the valley . 
Daddy , it's gold to night all gold with the sun ! he cried rapturously , as his eyes fell upon his treasure . 
Oh , daddy ! It was a long drawn cry of ecstasy , and hearing it , the man winced , as with sudden pain . 
'Daddy , I'm going to play it I've got to play it ! cried the boy , bounding toward the cabin . 
In a moment he had returned , violin at his chin . 
It was no new thing for David to play the sunset . 
Always , when he was moved , David turned to his violin . 
Always in its quivering strings he found the means to say that which his tongue could not express . 
Across the valley the grays and blues of the mountains had become all purples now . 
Above , the sky in one vast flame of crimson and gold , was a molten sea on which floated rose pink cloud boats . 
Below , the valley with its lake and river picked out in rose and gold against the shadowy greens of field and forest , seemed like some enchanted fairyland of loveliness . 
And all this was in David's violin , and all this , too , was on David's uplifted , rapturous face . 
As the last rose glow turned to gray and the last strain quivered into silence , the man spoke . 
His voice was almost harsh with self control . 
David , the time has come . 
We'll have to give it up you and I. The boy turned wonderingly , his face still softly luminous . 
Give what up ? This all this . 
This ! Why , father , what do you mean ? This is home ! The man nodded wearily . 
Why not ? he asked dreamily . 
What better place could there be ? I like it , daddy . 
The man drew a troubled breath , and stirred restlessly . 
The teasing pain in his side was very bad to night , and no change of position eased it . 
He was ill , very ill and he knew it . 
Yet he also knew that , to David , sickness , pain , and death meant nothing or , at most , words that had always been lightly , almost unconsciously passed over . 
For the first time he wondered if , after all , his training some of it had been wise . 
For six years he had had the boy under his exclusive care and guidance . 
For six years the boy had eaten the food , worn the clothing , and studied the books of his father's choosing . 
For six years that father had thought , planned , breathed , moved , lived for his son . 
There had been no others in the little cabin . 
There had been only the occasional trips through the woods to the little town on the mountain side for food and clothing , to break the days of close companionship . 
All this the man had planned carefully . 
He had meant that only the good and beautiful should have place in David's youth . 
It was not that he intended that evil , unhappiness , and death should lack definition , only definiteness , in the boy's mind . 
It should be a case where the good and the beautiful should so fill the thoughts that there would be no room for anything else . 
This had been his plan . 
As he looked at the boy's rapt face , he remembered David's surprised questioning at the first dead squirrel he had found in the woods . 
Why , daddy , he's asleep , and he won't wake up ! he had cried . 
But the next day the boy had gone back to the subject . 
His eyes were wide then , and a little frightened . 
Father , what is it to be dead ? What do you mean , David ? The boy who brings the milk he had the squirrel this morning . 
He said it was not asleep . 
It means that the squirrel , the real squirrel under the fur , has gone away , David . 
Where ? To a far country , perhaps . 
Will he come back ? No. Did he want to go ? We'll hope so . 
But he left his his fur coat behind him . 
Didn't he need that ? No , or he'd have taken it with him . 
David had fallen silent at this . 
He had remained strangely silent indeed for some days then , out in the woods with his father one morning , he gave a joyous shout . 
He was standing by the ice covered brook , and looking at a little black hole through which the hurrying water could be plainly seen . 
Daddy , oh , daddy , I know now how it is , about being dead . 
Why David ! It's like the water in the brook , you know THAT'S going to a far country , and it isn't coming back . 
And it leaves its little cold ice coat behind it just as the squirrel did , too . 
It does n't need it . 
It can go without it . 
Don't you see ? And it's singing listen ! it's singing as it goes . 
It WANTS to go ! Yes , David . 
And David's father had sighed with relief that his son had found his own explanation of the mystery , and one that satisfied . 
Later , in his books , David found death again . 
It was a man , this time . 
The boy had looked up with startled eyes . 
David's father had trembled as he said it , and had waited fearfully for the result . 
But David had only smiled happily as he answered But they go singing , father , like the little brook . 
You know I heard it ! And there the matter had ended . 
David was ten now , and not yet for him did death spell terror . 
Because of this David's father was relieved and yet still because of this he was afraid . 
David , he said gently . 
The boy turned with a long sigh . 
Out in the great world there are men and women and children waiting for you . 
You've a beautiful work to do and one can't do one's work on a mountain top . 
Why not ? I like it here , and I've always been here . 
Not always , David six years . 
You were four when I brought you here . 
You don't remember , perhaps . 
His eyes were again dreamily fixed on the sky . 
I think I'd like it to go if I could sail away on that little cloud boat up there , he murmured . 
The man sighed and shook his head . 
We can't go on cloud boats . 
We must walk , David , for a way and we must go soon soon , he added feverishly . 
I must get you back back among friends , before He rose unsteadily , and tried to walk erect . 
His limbs shook , and the blood throbbed at his temples . 
He was appalled at his weakness . 
With a fierceness born of his terror he turned sharply to the boy at his side . 
Behind him David still sat , inert , staring . 
The next minute the boy had sprung to his feet and was hurrying after his father . 
CHAPTER II THE TRAIL A curious strength seemed to have come to the man . 
With almost steady hands he took down the photographs and the Sistine Madonna , packing them neatly away in a box to be left . 
David , in the doorway , stared in dazed wonder . 
Gradually into his eyes crept a look never seen there before . 
Father , where are we going ? he asked at last in a shaking voice , as he came slowly into the room . 
Back , son we're going back . 
To the village , where we get our eggs and bacon ? No , no , lad , not there . 
We go down into the valley this time . 
The valley MY valley , with the Silver Lake ? Yes , my son and beyond far beyond . 
He was looking at a photograph in his hand . 
It had slipped in among the loose sheets of music , and had not been put away with the others . 
It was the likeness of a beautiful woman . 
For a moment David eyed him uncertainly then he spoke . 
Who are they ? Instead of answering , the man turned faraway eyes on the boy and smiled wistfully . 
Ah , David , lad , how they'll love you ! How they will love you ! But you mustn't let them spoil you , son . 
You must remember remember all I've told you . 
Once again David asked his question , but this time the man only turned back to the photograph , muttering something the boy could not understand . 
After that David did not question any more . 
He was too amazed , too distressed . 
He had never before seen his father like this . 
With nervous haste the man was setting the little room to rights , crowding things into the bag , and packing other things away in an old trunk . 
His cheeks were very red , and his eyes very bright . 
He talked , too , almost constantly , though David could understand scarcely a word of what was said . 
Later , the man caught up his violin and played and never before had David heard his father play like that . 
The boy's eyes filled , and his heart ached with a pain that choked and numbed though why , David could not have told . 
Still later , the man dropped his violin and sank exhausted into a chair and then David , worn and frightened with it all , crept to his bunk and fell asleep . 
In the gray dawn of the morning David awoke to a different world . 
His father , white faced and gentle , was calling him to get ready for breakfast . 
The little room , dismantled of its decorations , was bare and cold . 
The bag , closed and strapped , rested on the floor by the door , together with the two violins in their cases , ready to carry . 
We must hurry , son . 
It's a long tramp before we take the cars . 
The cars the real cars ? Do we go in those ? David was fully awake now . 
And is that all we're to carry ? Yes . 
But we come back sometime ? There was no answer . 
Father , we're coming back sometime ? David's voice was insistent now . 
The man stooped and tightened a strap that was already quite tight enough . 
Why , of course you're coming back sometime , David . 
As he fastened the door the man sighed profoundly but David did not notice this . 
His face was turned toward the east always David looked toward the sun . 
Daddy , let's not go , after all ! Let's stay here , he cried ardently , drinking in the beauty of the morning . 
We must go , David . 
And the man led the way across the green slope to the west . 
It was a scarcely perceptible trail , but the man found it , and followed it with evident confidence . 
There was only the pause now and then to steady his none too sure step , or to ease the burden of the bag . 
Very soon the forest lay all about them , with the birds singing over their heads , and with numberless tiny feet scurrying through the underbrush on all sides . 
Just out of sight a brook babbled noisily of its delight in being alive and away up in the treetops the morning sun played hide and seek among the dancing leaves . 
And David leaped , and laughed , and loved it all , nor was any of it strange to him . 
The birds , the trees , the sun , the brook , the scurrying little creatures of the forest , all were friends of his . 
But the man the man did not leap or laugh , though he , too , loved it all . 
He knew now that he had undertaken more than he could carry out . 
Step by step the bag had grown heavier , and hour by hour the insistent , teasing pain in his side had increased until now it was a torture . 
He had forgotten that the way to the valley was so long he had not realized how nearly spent was his strength before he even started down the trail . 
Throbbing through his brain was the question , what if , after all , he could not but even to himself he would not say the words . 
At noon they paused for luncheon , and at night they camped where the chattering brook had stopped to rest in a still , black pool . 
The next morning the man and the boy picked up the trail again , but without the bag . 
There's nothing in it that we really need , you know , now that I've taken out the luncheon box , and by night we'll be down in the valley . 
Of course ! laughed David . 
And he laughed again , for pure joy . 
Still later they came to where four ways crossed , and two of them bore the marks of many wheels . 
By sundown the little brook at their side murmured softly of quiet fields and meadows , and David knew that the valley was reached . 
David was not laughing now . 
He was watching his father with startled eyes . 
David had not known what anxiety was . 
He was finding out now though he but vaguely realized that something was not right . 
For some time his father had said but little , and that little had been in a voice that was thick and unnatural sounding . 
He was walking fast , yet David noticed that every step seemed an effort , and that every breath came in short gasps . 
His eyes were very bright , and were fixedly bent on the road ahead , as if even the haste he was making was not haste enough . 
They met few fellow travelers , and those they did meet paid scant attention to the man and the boy carrying the violins . 
As it chanced , there was no one in sight when the man , walking in the grass at the side of the road , stumbled and fell heavily to the ground . 
Father , what is it ? WHAT IS IT ? There was no answer . 
Daddy , why don't you speak to me ? See , it's David ! With a painful effort the man roused himself and sat up . 
For a moment he gazed dully into the boy's face then a half forgotten something seemed to stir him into feverish action . 
With shaking fingers he handed David his watch and a small ivory miniature . 
Then he searched his pockets until on the ground before him lay a shining pile of gold pieces to David there seemed to be a hundred of them . 
Take them hide them keep them . 
David , until you need them , panted the man . 
Alone ? Without you ? demurred the boy , aghast . 
Why , father , I couldn't ! I don't know the way . 
Besides , I'd rather stay with you , he added soothingly , as he slipped the watch and the miniature into his pocket then we can both go . 
And he dropped himself down at his father's side . 
The man shook his head feebly , and pointed again to the gold pieces . 
Take them , David , hide them , he chattered with pale lips . 
Almost impatiently the boy began picking up the money and tucking it into his pockets . 
The driver of the horse glanced disapprovingly at the man and the boy by the roadside but he did not stop . 
After he had passed , the boy turned again to his father . 
The man was fumbling once more in his pockets . 
This time from his coat he produced a pencil and a small notebook from which he tore a page , and began to write , laboriously , painfully . 
David sighed and looked about him . 
He was tired and hungry , and he did not understand things at all . 
Something very wrong , very terrible , must be the matter with his father . 
From above , the valley might look to be a fairyland of loveliness , but in reality it was nothing but a dismal waste of gloom , decided David . 
David's father had torn a second page from his book and was beginning another note , when the boy suddenly jumped to his feet . 
One of the straggling houses was near the road where they sat , and its presence had given David an idea . 
With swift steps he hurried to the front door and knocked upon it . 
Good evening , lady I'm David , he began frankly . 
My father is so tired he fell down back there , and we should like very much to stay with you all night , if you don't mind . 
The woman in the doorway stared . 
For a moment she was dumb with amazement . 
Her eyes swept the plain , rather rough garments of the boy , then sought the half recumbent figure of the man by the roadside . 
Her chin came up angrily . 
Oh , would you , indeed ! Well , upon my word ! she scouted . 
Humph ! We don't accommodate tramps , little boy . 
And she shut the door hard . 
It was David's turn to stare . 
Just what a tramp might be , he did not know but never before had a request of his been so angrily refused . 
A fierce something rose within him a fierce new something that sent the swift red to his neck and brow . 
He raised a determined hand to the doorknob he had something to say to that woman ! when the door suddenly opened again from the inside . 
See here , boy , began the woman , looking out at him a little less unkindly , if you're hungry I'll give you some milk and bread . 
Go around to the back porch and I'll get it for you . 
And she shut the door again . 
David's hand dropped to his side . 
The red still stayed on his face and neck , however , and that fierce new something within him bade him refuse to take food from this woman . 
But there was his father his poor father , who was so tired and there was his own stomach clamoring to be fed . 
No , he could not refuse . 
And with slow steps and hanging head David went around the corner of the house to the rear . 
David was glad , now , that he had those gold pieces in his pocket , for he could pay money . 
Instantly his head came up . 
Once more erect with self respect , he shifted his burdens to one hand and thrust the other into his pocket . 
A moment later he presented on his outstretched palm a shining disk of gold . 
Will you take this , to pay , please , for the bread and milk ? he asked proudly . 
The woman began to shake her head but , as her eyes fell on the money , she started , and bent closer to examine it . 
The next instant she jerked herself upright with an angry exclamation . 
The next moment David stood alone on the doorstep , with the sound of a quickly thrown bolt in his ears . 
A thief ! David knew little of thieves , but he knew what they were . 
Only a month before a man had tried to steal the violins from the cabin and he was a thief , the milk boy said . 
David flushed now again , angrily , as he faced the closed door . 
But he did not tarry . 
He turned and ran to his father . 
Father , come away , quick ! You must come away , he choked . 
So urgent was the boy's voice that almost unconsciously the sick man got to his feet . 
With shaking hands he thrust the notes he had been writing into his pocket . 
The little book , from which he had torn the leaves for this purpose , had already dropped unheeded into the grass at his feet . 
Yes , son , yes , we'll go , muttered the man . 
And he did walk , though very slowly , ten , a dozen , twenty steps . 
From behind came the sound of wheels that stopped close beside them . 
Hullo , there ! Going to the village ? called a voice . 
Where the village was , he did not know he knew only that it must be somewhere away from the woman who had called him a thief . 
And that was all he cared to know . 
I'm going 'most there myself . 
Want a lift ? asked the man , still kindly . 
Thank you ! cried the boy joyfully . 
And together they aided his father to climb into the roomy wagon body . 
There were few words said . 
The man at the reins drove rapidly , and paid little attention to anything but his horses . 
The sick man dozed and rested . 
The boy sat , wistful eyed and silent , watching the trees and houses flit by . 
The sun had long ago set , but it was not dark , for the moon was round and bright , and the sky was cloudless . 
Where the road forked sharply the man drew his horses to a stop . 
Well , I'm sorry , but I guess I'll have to drop you here , friends . 
Thank you , sir , thank you , breathed David gratefully , steadying his father's steps . 
Thank you ! In David's heart was a wild desire to lay at his good man's feet all of his shining gold pieces as payment for this timely aid . 
But caution held him back it seemed that only in stores did money pay outside it branded one as a thief ! Alone with his father , David faced once more his problem . 
Where should they go for the night ? Plainly his father could not walk far . 
He had begun to talk again , too , low , half finished sentences that David could not understand , and that vaguely troubled him . 
There was a barn , a big one , which was nearest of all and it was toward this barn that David finally turned his father's steps . 
We'll go there , daddy , if we can get in , he proposed softly . 
And we'll stay all night and rest . 
CHAPTER III THE VALLEY The long twilight of the June day had changed into a night that was scarcely darker , so bright was the moonlight . 
Seen from the house , the barn and the low buildings beyond loomed shadowy and unreal , yet very beautiful . 
On the side porch of the house sat Simeon Holly and his wife , content to rest mind and body only because a full day's work lay well done behind them . 
It was just as Simeon rose to his feet to go indoors that a long note from a violin reached their ears . 
Simeon ! cried the woman . 
What was that ? The man did not answer . 
His eyes were fixed on the barn . 
Simeon , it's a fiddle ! exclaimed Mrs. Holly , as a second tone quivered on the air And it's in our barn ! Simeon's jaw set . 
With a stern ejaculation he crossed the porch and entered the kitchen . 
In another minute he had returned , a lighted lantern in his hand . 
Simeon , d don't go , begged the woman , tremulously . 
You you don't know what's there . 
Fiddles are not played without hands , Ellen , retorted the man severely . 
They're the culprits , likely , though how they got this far , I don't see . 
Once inside the barn Simeon Holly and his wife paused involuntarily . 
The music was all about them now , filling the air with runs and trills and rollicking bits of melody . 
Giving an angry exclamation , the man turned then to the narrow stairway and climbed to the hayloft above . 
At his heels came his wife , and so her eyes , almost as soon as his fell upon the man lying back on the hay with the moonlight full upon his face . 
Instantly the music dropped to a whisper , and a low voice came out of the gloom beyond the square of moonlight which came from the window in the roof . 
If you'll please be as still as you can , sir . 
You see he's asleep and he's so tired , said the voice . 
For a moment the man and the woman on the stairway paused in amazement , then the man lifted his lantern and strode toward the voice . 
Who are you ? What are you doing here ? he demanded sharply . 
A boy's face , round , tanned , and just now a bit anxious , flashed out of the dark . 
Oh , please , sir , if you would speak lower , pleaded the boy . 
He's so tired ! I'm David , sir , and that's father . 
We came in here to rest and sleep . 
Simeon Holly's unrelenting gaze left the boy's face and swept that of the man lying back on the hay . 
The next instant he lowered the lantern and leaned nearer , putting forth a cautious hand . 
At once he straightened himself , muttering a brusque word under his breath . 
Where did you come from ? From home , sir . 
Where is that ? Why , home , sir , where I live . 
In the mountains , 'way up , up , up oh , so far up ! And there's such a big , big sky , so much nicer than down here . 
The boy's voice quivered , and almost broke , and his eyes constantly sought the white face on the hay . 
It was then that Simeon Holly awoke to the sudden realization that it was time for action . 
He turned to his wife . 
Take the boy to the house , he directed incisively . 
We'll have to keep him to night , I suppose . 
Of course the whole thing will have to be put in his hands at once . 
You can't do anything here , he added , as he caught her questioning glance . 
Leave everything just as it is . 
Dead ? It was a sharp cry from the boy , yet there was more of wonder than of terror in it . 
Do you mean that he has gone like the water in the brook to the far country ? he faltered . 
Then he said more distinctly Your father is dead , boy . 
And he won't come back any more ? David's voice broke now . 
Mrs. Holly caught her breath convulsively and looked away . 
Even Simeon Holly refused to meet the boy's pleading eyes . 
With a quick cry David sprang to his father's side . 
But he's here right here , he challenged shrilly . 
Daddy , daddy , speak to me ! It's David ! Reaching out his hand , he gently touched his father's face . 
He drew back then , at once , his eyes distended with terror . 
He isn't ! He is gone , he chattered frenziedly . 
This isn't the father part that KNOWS . 
It's the other that they leave . 
He's left it behind him like the squirrel , and the water in the brook . 
Suddenly the boy's face changed . 
It grew rapt and luminous as he leaped to his feet , crying joyously But he asked me to play , so he went singing singing just as he said that they did . 
For a time neither the man nor the woman could speak . 
At last , however , Simeon found his voice . 
Boy , boy , stop that ! he thundered . 
Mrs. Holly was frightened , but she was also strangely moved . 
From the long ago the sound of another violin had come to her a violin , too , played by a boy's hands . 
But of this , all this , Mrs. Holly did not like to think . 
In the kitchen now she turned and faced her young guest . 
Are you hungry , little boy ? David hesitated he had not forgotten the woman , the milk , and the gold piece . 
What is your name ? she found courage to ask then . 
David what ? Just David . 
But your father's name ? Mrs. Holly had almost asked , but stopped in time . 
She did not want to speak of him . 
Where do you live ? she asked instead . 
On the mountain , 'way up , up on the mountain where I can see my Silver Lake every day , you know . 
But you didn't live there alone ? Oh , no with father before he went away faltered the boy . 
The woman flushed red and bit her lip . 
No , no , I mean were there no other houses but yours ? she stammered . 
But , wasn't your mother anywhere ? Oh , yes , in father's pocket . 
Your MOTHER in your father's POCKET ! So plainly aghast was the questioner that David looked not a little surprised as he explained . 
She is an angel mother , and angel mothers don't have anything only their pictures down here with us . 
And that's what we have , and father always carried it in his pocket . 
Oh h , murmured Mrs. Holly , a quick mist in her eyes . 
Then , gently And did you always live there on the mountain ? Six years , father said . 
But what did you do all day ? Weren't you ever lonesome ? Lonesome ? The boy's eyes were puzzled . 
Didn't you miss things people , other houses , boys of your own age , and and such things ? David's eyes widened . 
Why , how could I ? he cried . 
You you should go to bed . 
Haven't you a a bag , or or anything ? No , ma'am we left it , smiled David apologetically . 
You see , we had so much in it that it got too heavy to carry . 
So we did n't bring it . 
So much in it you didn't bring it , indeed ! repeated Mrs. Holly , under her breath , throwing up her hands with a gesture of despair . 
My land ! breathed the woman , dropping back in her chair , her eyes fixed on the boy . 
Then , with an effort , she got to her feet . 
Come , you must go to bed , she stammered . 
I'm sure bed is is the best place you . 
I think I can find what what you need , she finished feebly . 
In a snug little room over the kitchen some minutes later , David found himself at last alone . 
The room , though it had once belonged to a boy of his own age , looked very strange to David . 
On the floor was a rag carpet rug , the first he had ever seen . 
On the walls were a fishing rod , a toy shotgun , and a case full of bugs and moths , each little body impaled on a pin , to David's shuddering horror . 
Across a chair lay a boy's long yellow white nightshirt that the kind lady had left , after hurriedly wiping her eyes with the edge of its hem . 
Then he blew out the candle and groped his way to the one window the little room contained . 
The moon still shone , but little could be seen through the thick green branches of the tree outside . 
From the yard below came the sound of wheels , and of men's excited voices . 
There came also the twinkle of lanterns borne by hurrying hands , and the tramp of shuffling feet . 
In the window David shivered . 
There were no wide sweep of mountain , hill , and valley , no Silver Lake , no restful hush , no daddy , no beautiful Things that Were . 
There was only the dreary , hollow mockery of the Things they had Become . 
CHAPTER IV TWO LETTERS In the early gray dawn David awoke . 
His first sensation was the physical numbness and stiffness that came from his hard bed on the floor . 
Why , daddy , he began , pulling himself half erect , I slept all night on He stopped suddenly , brushing his eyes with the backs of his hands . 
Why , daddy , where Then full consciousness came to him . 
With a low cry he sprang to his feet and ran to the window . 
Through the trees he could see the sunrise glow of the eastern sky . 
The gold in his sagging pockets clinked and jingled musically and once half a dozen pieces rolled out upon the floor . 
For a moment the boy looked as if he were going to let them remain where they were . 
But the next minute , with an impatient gesture , he had picked them up and thrust them deep into one of his pockets , silencing their jingling with his handkerchief . 
Once dressed , David picked up his violin and stepped softly into the hall . 
At first no sound reached his ears then from the kitchen below came the clatter of brisk feet and the rattle of tins and crockery . 
Tightening his clasp on the violin , David slipped quietly down the back stairs and out to the yard . 
It was only a few seconds then before he was hurrying through the open doorway of the barn and up the narrow stairway to the loft above . 
At the top , however , he came to a sharp pause , with a low cry . 
The next moment he turned to see a kindly faced man looking up at him from the foot of the stairs . 
Into the man's weather beaten face came a look of sincere but awkward sympathy . 
Oh , hullo , sonny ! So you're the boy , are ye ? he began diffidently . 
Yes , yes , I'm David . 
But where is he my father , you know ? I mean the the part he he left behind him ? choked the boy . 
The part like the ice coat ? The man stared . 
Then , involuntarily , he began to back away . 
Well , ye see , I I But , maybe you don't know , interrupted David feverishly . 
You aren't the man I saw last night . 
Me I'm only Larson , Perry Larson , ye know . 
'T was Mr. Holly you see last night him that I works for . 
Then , where is Mr. Holly , please ? faltered the boy , hurrying toward the barn door . 
Maybe he would know about father . 
Oh , there he is ! And David ran out of the barn and across the yard to the kitchen porch . 
It was an unhappy ten minutes that David spent then . 
Besides Mr. Holly , there were Mrs. Holly , and the man , Perry Larson . 
But little of what they said could David understand . 
To none of his questions could he obtain an answer that satisfied . 
Neither , on his part , could he seem to reply to their questions in a way that pleased them . 
They went in to breakfast then , Mr. and Mrs. Holly , and the man , Perry Larson . 
They asked David to go at least , Mrs. Holly asked him . 
But David shook his head and said No , no , thank you very much I'd rather not , if you please not now . 
Then he dropped himself down on the steps to think . 
As if he could EAT with that great choking lump in his throat that refused to be swallowed ! David was thoroughly dazed , frightened , and dismayed . 
He knew now that never again in this world would he see his dear father , or hear him speak . 
This much had been made very clear to him during the last ten minutes . 
Why this should be so , or what his father would want him to do , he could not seem to find out . 
Not until now had he realized at all what this going away of his father was to mean to him . 
And he told himself frantically that he could not have it so . 
HE COULD NOT HAVE IT SO ! But even as he said the words , he knew that it was so irrevocably so . 
David began then to long for his mountain home . 
There at least he would have his dear forest all about him , with the birds and the squirrels and the friendly little brooks . 
There he would have his Silver Lake to look at , too , and all of them would speak to him of his father . 
He believed , indeed , that up there it would almost seem as if his father were really with him . 
Back to the cabin he would go now , then . 
Well , could you get anything out of the boy ? demanded Higgins , without ceremony , as Simeon Holly and Larson appeared on the kitchen porch . 
Really nothing of importance , answered Simeon Holly . 
Where is he now ? Why , he was here on the steps a few minutes ago . 
Simeon Holly looked about him a bit impatiently . 
Well , I want to see him . 
I've got a letter for him . 
A letter ! exclaimed Simeon Holly and Larson in amazed unison . 
Found it in his father's pocket , nodded the coroner , with all the tantalizing brevity of a man who knows he has a choice morsel of information that is eagerly awaited . 
It's addressed to 'My boy David , so I calculated we'd better give it to him first without reading it , seeing it's his . 
After he reads it , though , I want to see it . 
I want to see if what it says is any nearer being horse sense than the other one is . 
The other one ! exclaimed the amazed chorus again . 
Oh , yes , there's another one , spoke up William Streeter tersely . 
And I've read it all but the scrawl at the end . 
There couldn't anybody read that ! Higgins laughed . 
Well , I'm free to confess 't is a sticker that name , he admitted . 
And it's the name we want , of course , to tell us who they are since it seems the boy don't know , from what you said last night . 
I was in hopes , by this morning , you'd have found out more from him . 
Simeon Holly shook his head . 
Gosh ! I should say 't was , cut in Perry Larson , with emphasis . 
An' queer ain't no name for it . 
One minute he'd be talkin' good common sense like anybody an' the next he'd be chatterin' of coats made o' ice , an' birds an' squirrels an' babbling brooks . 
He sure is dippy ! Listen . 
He actually don't seem ter know the diff'rence between himself an' his fiddle . 
Now , what do yer think o' that ? Yes , I , know nodded Higgins musingly . 
There WAS something queer about them , and they weren't just ordinary tramps . 
Did I tell you ? I overtook them last night away up on the Fairbanks road by the Taylor place , and I gave 'em a lift . 
I particularly noticed what a decent sort they were . 
They were clean and quiet spoken , and their clothes were good , even if they were rough . 
Yet they didn't have any baggage but them fiddles . 
But what was that second letter you mentioned ? asked Simeon Holly . 
Higgins smiled oddly , and reached into his pocket . 
The letter ? Oh , you're welcome to read the letter , he said , as he handed over a bit of folded paper . 
Simeon took it gingerly and examined it . 
It was a leaf torn apparently from a note book . 
It was folded three times , and bore on the outside the superscription To whom it may concern . 
The handwriting was peculiar , irregular , and not very legible . 
But I am ill very ill , and should Death have swifter feet than I , I must leave my task for others to complete . 
He knows only that which is good and beautiful . 
He knows nothing of sin nor evil . 
Then followed the signature a thing of scrawls and flourishes that conveyed no sort of meaning to Simeon Holly's puzzled eyes . 
Well ? prompted Higgins expectantly . 
Simeon Holly shook his head . 
I can make little of it . 
It certainly is a most remarkable note . 
Could you read the name ? No. Well , I couldn't . 
Neither could half a dozen others that's seen it . 
But where's the boy ? Mebbe his note'll talk sense . 
I'll go find him , volunteered Larson . 
He must be somewheres 'round . 
But David was very evidently not somewheres'round . 
At Mollie's ! exclaimed Higgins . 
Why , that's a mile or more from here . 
So that's where he is ! interposed Larson , hurrying forward . 
Doggone the little rascal ! He must 'a' slipped away while we was eatin breakfast . 
But , Simeon , Mr. Higgins , we hadn't ought to let him go like that , appealed Mrs. Holly tremulously . 
Your wife said Mollie said she found him crying at the crossroads , because he didn't know which way to take . 
He said he was going back home . 
He means to that wretched cabin on the mountain , you know and we can't let him do that alone a child like that ! Where is he now ? demanded Higgins . 
In Mollie's kitchen eating bread and milk but she said she had an awful time getting him to eat . 
And she wants to know what to do with him . 
That's why she telephoned your wife . 
She thought you ought to know he was there . 
Well , tell her to tell him to come back . 
Mollie said she tried to have him come back , but that he said , no , thank you , he'd rather not . 
He was going home where his father could find him if he should ever want him . 
Mr. Higgins , we we CAN'T let him go off like that . 
Why , the child would die up there alone in those dreadful woods , even if he could get there in the first place which I very much doubt . 
Yes , of course , of course , muttered Higgins , with a thoughtful frown . 
There's his letter , too . 
Say ! he added , brightening , what'll you bet that letter won't fetch him ? He seems to think the world and all of his daddy . 
I will , I will , called Mrs. Holly , over her shoulder , as she hurried into the house . 
In an unbelievably short time she was back , her face beaming . 
He's started , so soon , she nodded . 
He's crazy with joy , Mollie said . 
He even left part of his breakfast , he was in such a hurry . 
So I guess we'll see him all right . 
Oh , yes , we'll see him all right , echoed Simeon Holly grimly . 
But that isn't telling what we'll do with him when we do see him . 
Oh , well , maybe this letter of his will help us out on that , suggested Higgins soothingly . 
Anyhow , even if it doesn't , I'm not worrying any . 
I guess some one will want him a good healthy boy like that . 
Did you find any money on the body ? asked Streeter . 
A little change a few cents . 
If the boy's letter doesn't tell us where any of their folks are , it'll be up to the town to bury him all right . 
He had a fiddle , didn't he ? And the boy had one , too . 
Wouldn't they bring anything ? Streeter's round blue eyes gleamed shrewdly . 
Higgins gave a slow shake of his head . 
Maybe if there was a market for 'em . 
But who'd buy 'em ? There ain't a soul in town plays but Jack Gurnsey and he's got one . 
Besides , he's sick , and got all he can do to buy bread and butter for him and his sister without taking in more fiddles , I guess . 
Hm m maybe not , maybe not , grunted Streeter . 
An' , as you say , he's the only one that's got any use for 'em here an' like enough they ain't worth much , anyway . 
So I guess 't is up to the town all right . 
Yes but if yer'll take it from me , interrupted Larson , you'll be wise if ye keep still before the boy . 
It's no use ASKIN' him anythin' . 
We've proved that fast enough . 
An' if he once turns 'round an' begins ter ask YOU questions , yer done for ! I guess you're right , nodded Higgins , with a quizzical smile . 
And as long as questioning CAN'T do any good , why , we'll just keep whist before the boy . 
Meanwhile I wish the little rascal would hurry up and get here . 
I want to see the inside of that letter to HIM . 
I'm relying on that being some help to unsnarl this tangle of telling who they are . 
Well , he's started , reiterated Mrs. Holly , as she turned back into the house so I guess he'll get here if you wait long enough . 
Oh , yes , he'll get here if we wait long enough , echoed Simeon Holly again , crustily . 
Simeon Holly had already sat down stiffly in one of the porch chairs . 
Simeon Holly never dropped himself anywhere . 
Indeed , according to Perry Larson , if there were a hard way to do a thing , Simeon Holly found it and did it . 
Even now he was conscious once or twice of an involuntary desire to rub his eyes to make sure they were not deceiving him . 
Impatient as the waiting men were for the arrival of David , they were yet almost surprised , so soon did he appear , running up the driveway . 
Oh , where is it , please ? he panted . 
They said you had a letter for me from daddy ! You're right , sonny we have . 
And here it is , answered Higgins promptly , holding out the folded paper . 
Plainly eager as he was , David did not open the note till he had first carefully set down the case holding his violin then he devoured it with eager eyes . 
As he read , the four men watched his face . 
They saw first the quick tears that had to be blinked away . 
Then they saw the radiant glow that grew and deepened until the whole boyish face was aflame with the splendor of it . 
They saw the shining wonder of his eyes , too , as he looked up from the letter . 
And daddy wrote this to me from the far country ? he breathed . 
Larson choked over a stifled chuckle . 
William Streeter stared and shrugged his shoulders but Higgins flushed a dull red . 
No , sonny , he stammered . 
We found it on the er I mean , it er your father left it in his pocket for you , finished the man , a little explosively . 
A swift shadow crossed the boy's face . 
Oh , I hoped I'd heard he began . 
Then suddenly he stopped , his face once more alight . 
But it's 'most the same as if he wrote it from there , isn't it ? He left it for me , and he told me what to do . 
What's that , what's that ? cried Higgins , instantly alert . 
DID he tell you what to do ? Then , let's have it , so WE'LL know . 
You will let us read it , won't you , boy ? Why , y yes , stammered David , holding it out politely , but with evident reluctance . 
Thank you , nodded Higgins , as he reached for the note . 
David's letter was very different from the other one . 
It was longer , but it did not help much , though it was easily read . 
In his letter , in spite of the wavering lines , each word was formed with a care that told of a father's thought for the young eyes that would read it . 
It was written on two of the notebook's leaves , and at the end came the single word Daddy . 
David , my boy read Higgins aloud , in the far country I am waiting for you . 
Do not grieve , for that will grieve me . 
I shall not return , but some day you will come to me , your violin at your chin , and the bow drawn across the strings to greet me . 
See that it tells me of the beautiful world you have left for it is a beautiful world , David never forget that . 
And if sometime you are tempted to think it is not a beautiful world , just remember that you yourself can make it beautiful if you will . 
You are among new faces , surrounded by things and people that are strange to you . 
Some of them you will not understand some of them you may not like . 
But do not fear , David , and do not plead to go back to the hills . 
Remember this , my boy , in your violin lie all the things you long for . 
You have only to play , and the broad skies of your mountain home will be over you , and the dear friends and comrades of your mountain forests will be about you . 
Gorry ! that's worse than the other , groaned Higgins , when he had finished the note . 
The assembled men could only grunt and nod in agreement , which , after all , was no real help . 
CHAPTER V DISCORDS The dead man found in Farmer Holly's barn created a decided stir in the village of Hinsdale . 
The case was a peculiar one for many reasons . 
First , because of the boy Hinsdale supposed it knew boys , but it felt inclined to change its mind after seeing this one . 
Second , because of the circumstances . 
Nothing was said of this to David indeed , as little as possible was said to David about anything after that morning when Higgins had given him his father's letter . 
At that time the men had made one more effort to get track of SOMETHING , as Higgins had despairingly put it . 
But the boy's answers to their questions were anything but satisfying , anything but helpful , and were often most disconcerting . 
The boy was , in fact , regarded by most of the men , after that morning , as being a little off and was hence let severely alone . 
Who the man was the town authorities certainly did not know , neither could they apparently find out . 
His name , as written by himself , was unreadable . 
His notes told nothing his son could tell little more of consequence . 
David was left at the Holly farmhouse , though Simeon Holly mentally declared that he should lose no time in looking about for some one to take the boy away . 
But his wife , hovering in the background , hastened forward at once . 
Oh , yes yes , indeed , she urged . 
I'm sure he he won't be a mite of trouble , Simeon . 
Perhaps not , conceded Simeon Holly darkly . 
Neither , it is safe to say , will he be anything else worth anything . 
That's it exactly , spoke up Streeter , from his seat in the wagon . 
If I thought he'd be worth his salt , now , I'd take him myself but well , look at him this minute , he finished , with a disdainful shrug . 
David , on the lowest step , was very evidently not hearing a word of what was being said . 
With his sensitive face illumined , he was again poring over his father's letter . 
Something in the sudden quiet cut through his absorption as the noisy hum of voices had not been able to do , and he raised his head . 
I'm so glad father told me what to do , he breathed . 
Receiving no answer from the somewhat awkwardly silent men , he went on , as if in explanation You know he's waiting for me in the far country , I mean . 
And when you've got somebody waiting , you don't mind staying behind yourself for a little while . 
Besides , I've GOT to stay to find out about the beautiful world , you know , so I can tell him , when I go . 
That's the way I used to do back home on the mountain , you see , tell him about things . 
Lots of days we'd go to walk then , when we got home , he'd have me tell him , with my violin , what I'd seen . 
And now he says I'm to stay here . 
Here ! It was the quick , stern voice of Simeon Holly . 
Yes , nodded David earnestly to learn about the beautiful world . 
A moment later David found himself alone with Mrs. Holly , who was looking at him with wistful , though slightly fearful eyes . 
Oh , yes , thank you . 
David's eyes had strayed back to the note in his hand . 
Suddenly he looked up , a new something in his eyes . 
What is it to be a a tramp ? he asked . 
Those men said daddy and I were tramps . 
A tramp ? Oh er why , just a a tramp , stammered Mrs. Holly . 
But never mind that , David . 
I I wouldn't think any more about it . 
But what is a tramp ? persisted David , a smouldering fire beginning to show in his eyes . 
Because if they meant THIEVES No , no , David , interrupted Mrs. Holly soothingly . 
They never meant thieves at all . 
Oh ! David's face cleared . 
That's all right , then . 
I'd love to be a tramp , and so'd father . 
Why , I never knew really what the pine trees were saying till I heard them at night , lying under them . 
You know what I mean . 
You've heard them , haven't you ? At night ? Pine trees ? stammered Mrs. Holly helplessly . 
Oh , haven't you ever heard them at night ? cried the boy , in his voice a very genuine sympathy as for a grievous loss . 
Why , then , if you've only heard them daytimes , you don't know a bit what pine trees really are . 
But I can tell you . 
In the doorway , Mrs. Holly , bewildered , yet bewitched , stood motionless , her eyes half fearfully , half longingly fixed on David's glorified face . 
She was still in the same position when Simeon Holly came around the corner of the house . 
I I forgot what I was doing , faltered Mrs. Holly , flushing guiltily from neck to brow as she turned and hurried into the house . 
David , on the porch steps , seemed to have heard nothing . 
He was still playing , his rapt gaze on the distant sky line , when Simeon Holly turned upon him with disapproving eyes . 
See here , boy , can't you do anything but fiddle ? he demanded . 
Then , as David still continued to play , he added sharply Did n't you hear me , boy ? The music stopped abruptly . 
David looked up with the slightly dazed air of one who has been summoned as from another world . 
Did you speak to me , sir ? he asked . 
I asked if you never did anything but play that fiddle . 
You mean at home ? David's face expressed mild wonder without a trace of anger or resentment . 
Why , yes , of course . 
I couldn't play ALL the time , you know . 
Tramps , indeed ! muttered Simeon Holly , under his breath . 
Then , sharply Did you never perform any useful labor , boy ? Were your days always spent in this ungodly idleness ? Again David frowned in mild wonder . 
Oh , I wasn't idle , sir . 
Father said I must never be that . 
He said every instrument was needed in the great Orchestra of Life and that I was one , you know , even if I was only a little boy . 
I mean , did he never set you to work real work ? Work ? David meditated again . 
Then suddenly his face cleared . 
Oh , yes , sir , he said I had a beautiful work to do , and that it was waiting for me out in the world . 
That's why we came down from the mountain , you know , to find it . 
Is that what you mean ? Well , no , retorted the man , I can't say that it was . 
I was referring to work real work about the house . 
Did you never do any of that ? David gave a relieved laugh . 
Oh , you mean getting the meals and tidying up the house , he replied . 
Oh , yes , I did that with father , only his face grew wistful I'm afraid I didn't do it very well . 
My bacon was never as nice and crisp as father's , and the fire was always spoiling my potatoes . 
Humph ! bacon and potatoes , indeed ! scorned Simeon Holly . 
Well , boy , we call that women's work down here . 
We set men to something else . 
Do you see that woodpile by the shed door ? Yes , sir . 
In the kitchen you'll find an empty woodbox . 
Do you think you could fill it with wood from that woodpile ? You'll find plenty of short , small sticks already chopped . 
Oh , yes , sir , I'd like to , nodded David , hastily but carefully tucking his violin into its case . 
A minute later he had attacked the woodpile with a will and Simeon Holly , after a sharply watchful glance , had turned away . 
But the woodbox , after all , was not filled . 
At least , it was not filled immediately . 
One , indeed , was so very wonderful that David , with a whoop of glee , summoned Mrs. Holly from the shed doorway to come and see . 
Even then David did not think of that empty woodbox waiting behind the kitchen stove . 
Even the butterfly was forgotten then , for down in the path by the pansy bed David dropped to his knees in veritable worship . 
Why , you're just like little people , he cried softly . 
You've got faces and some of you are happy , and some of you are sad . 
And you you big spotted yellow one you're laughing at me . 
Oh , I'm going to play you all of you . 
You'll make such a pretty song , you're so different from each other ! And David leaped lightly to his feet and ran around to the side porch for his violin . 
Five minutes later , Simeon Holly , coming into the kitchen , heard the sound of a violin through the open window . 
At the same moment his eyes fell on the woodbox , empty save for a few small sticks at the bottom . 
With an angry frown he strode through the outer door and around the corner of the house to the garden . 
At once then he came upon David , sitting Turk fashion in the middle of the path before the pansy bed , his violin at his chin , and his whole face aglow . 
Well , boy , is this the way you fill the woodbox ? demanded the man crisply . 
Oh , no , sir , this isn't filling the woodbox , he laughed , softening his music , but not stopping it . 
Did you think that was what I was playing ? It's the flowers here that I'm playing the little faces , like people , you know . 
See , this is that big yellow one over there that's laughing , he finished , letting the music under his fingers burst into a gay little melody . 
Simeon Holly raised an imperious hand and at the gesture David stopped his melody in the middle of a run , his eyes flying wide open in plain wonderment . 
You mean I'm not playing right ? he asked . 
I'm not talking of your playing , retorted Simeon Holly severely . 
I'm talking of that woodbox I asked you to fill . 
Oh , yes , sir . 
I'll go and do it , he nodded , getting cheerfully to his feet . 
But I told you to do it before . 
David's eyes grew puzzled again . 
Don't you see ? No , I can't say that I do , when I'd already told you to fill the woodbox , rejoined the man , with uncompromising coldness . 
You mean even then that I ought to have filled the woodbox first ? I certainly do . 
David's eyes flew wide open again . 
But my song I'd have lost it ! he exclaimed . 
And father said always when a song came to me to play it at once . 
Songs are like the mists of the morning and the rainbows , you know , and they don't stay with you long . 
You just have to catch them quick , before they go . 
Two minutes later he was industriously working at his task of filling the woodbox . 
Do you mean , he asked , that because I didn't fill the woodbox right away , I was being a discord ? You were what ? demanded the amazed Simeon Holly . 
Being a discord playing out of tune , you know , explained David , with patient earnestness . 
Father said But again Simeon Holly had turned irritably away and David was left with his perplexed questions still unanswered . 
Do you want me to help ? he asked at last , a little wistfully . 
Mrs. Holly , with a dubious glance at the boy's brown little hands , shook her head . 
No , thank you , she amended her answer . 
He said they were a necessary nuisance , dishes , and getting meals , and clearing up , and he didn't do half as many of them as you do , either . 
Nuisance , indeed ! Mrs. Holly resumed her dishwashing with some asperity . 
Well , I should think that might have been just about like him . 
He was always that way , nodded David pleasantly . 
Then , after a moment , he queried But aren't you going to walk at all to day ? To walk ? Where ? Why , through the woods and fields anywhere . 
And it's such a nice day ! Maybe it'll rain by tomorrow . 
Maybe it will , retorted Mrs. Holly , with slightly uplifted eyebrows and an expressive glance . 
But whether it does or does n't won't make any difference in my going to walk , I guess . 
Oh , won't it ? beamed David , his face changing . 
I'm so glad ! I don't mind the rain , either . 
Don't you love to feel it , out in the open spaces , where the wind just gets a good chance to push ? Mrs. Holly stared . 
Then she shivered and threw up her hands with a gesture of hopeless abandonment . 
Land's sake , boy ! she ejaculated feebly , as she turned back to her work . 
From dishes to sweeping , and from sweeping to dusting , hurried Mrs. Holly , going at last into the somber parlor , always carefully guarded from sun and air . 
Y yes , you may come in , called Mrs. Holly , glancing back at the hesitating boy in the doorway . 
But you mustn't touch anything . 
But I haven't seen this room before , ruminated David . 
Well , no , deigned Mrs. Holly , with just a touch of superiority . 
We don't use this room common , little boy , nor the bedroom there , either . 
This is the company room , for ministers and funerals , and She stopped hastily , with a quick look at David but the boy did not seem to have heard . 
And doesn't anybody live here in this house , but just you and Mr. Holly , and Mr. Perry Larson ? he asked , still looking wonderingly about him . 
Mrs. Holly drew in her breath with a little catch , and glanced at the framed portrait of a little boy on the wall . 
But you've got such a lot of rooms and and things , remarked David . 
Why , daddy and I only had two rooms , and not hardly any THINGS . 
It was so different , you know , in my home . 
I should say it might have been ! Mrs. Holly began to dust hurriedly , but carefully . 
Her voice still carried its hint of superiority . 
Oh , yes , smiled David . 
But you say you don't use this room much , so that helps . 
Helps ! In her stupefaction Mrs. Holly stopped her work and stared . 
I mean , you've got so many other rooms you can live in those . 
You don't HAVE to live in here . 
'Have to live in here' ! ejaculated the woman , still too uncomprehending to be anything but amazed . 
Boy , are you crazy ? These things are are valuable . 
They cost money , and time and and labor . 
Don't you know beautiful things when you see them ? Oh , yes , I love BEAUTIFUL things , smiled David , with unconsciously rude emphasis . 
And up on the mountain I had them always . 
Never mind , little boy . 
I might have known brought up as you have been . 
Of course you could not appreciate such things as these . 
You said you didn't have time , he reminded her . 
But Mrs. Holly only shook her head and sighed Well , well , never mind , little boy . 
I dare say you meant all right . 
You couldn't understand , of course . 
And David , after another moment's wistful eyeing of the caressing fingers , turned about and wandered out onto the side porch . 
A minute later , having seated himself on the porch steps , he had taken from his pocket two small pieces of folded paper . 
And then , through tear dimmed eyes , he read once more his father's letter . 
He said I mustn't grieve , for that would grieve him , murmured the boy , after a time , his eyes on the far away hills . 
And he said if I'd play , my mountains would come to me here , and I'd really be at home up there . 
He said in my violin were all those things I'm wanting so bad ! With a little choking breath , David tucked the note back into his pocket and reached for his violin . 
Some time later , Mrs. Holly , dusting the chairs in the parlor , stopped her work , tiptoed to the door , and listened breathlessly . 
When she turned back , still later , to her work , her eyes were wet . 
I wonder why , when he plays , I always get to thinking of John , she sighed to herself , as she picked up her dusting cloth . 
After supper that night , Simeon Holly and his wife again sat on the kitchen porch , resting from the labor of the day . 
His wife's were on the dim outlines of the shed , the barn , the road , or a passing horse and wagon . 
David , sitting on the steps , was watching the moon climb higher and higher above the tree tops . 
After a time he slipped into the house and came out with his violin . 
At the first long drawn note of sweetness , Simeon Holly opened his eyes and sat up , stern lipped . 
But his wife laid a timid hand on his arm . 
Don't say anything , please , she entreated softly . 
Let him play , just for to night . 
He's lonesome poor little fellow . 
And Simeon Holly , with a frowning shrug of his shoulders , sat back in his chair . 
Later , it was Mrs. Holly herself who stopped the music by saying Come , David , it's bedtime for little boys . 
I'll go upstairs with you . 
And she led the way into the house and lighted the candle for him . 
Upstairs , in the little room over the kitchen , David found himself once more alone . 
As before , the little yellow white nightshirt lay over the chair back and as before , Mrs. Holly had brushed away a tear as she had placed it there . 
As before , too , the big four posted bed loomed tall and formidable in the corner . 
But this time the coverlet and sheet were turned back invitingly Mrs. Holly had been much disturbed to find that David had slept on the floor the night before . 
Once more , with his back carefully turned toward the impaled bugs and moths on the wall , David undressed himself . 
Then , before blowing out the candle , he went to the window kneeled down , and looked up at the moon through the trees . 
He was beginning to wonder just what was to become of himself . 
He would not like , now , to leave her with daddy gone . 
There were the gold pieces , too and concerning these David was equally puzzled . 
David was relieved at once . 
There , too , he hid the watch but the little miniature of the angel mother he slipped back into one of his pockets . 
He was in the kitchen when , just before dinner , Perry Larson came into the room with a worried frown on his face . 
Mis' Holly , would ye mind just steppin' to the side door ? There's a woman an' a little boy there , an' somethin' ails 'em . 
She can't talk English , an' I'm blest if I can make head nor tail out of the lingo she DOES talk . 
Why , Perry , I don't know began Mrs. Holly . 
But she turned at once toward the door . 
On the porch steps stood a very pretty , but frightened looking young woman with a boy perhaps ten years old at her side . 
Upon catching sight of Mrs. Holly she burst into a torrent of unintelligible words , supplemented by numerous and vehement gestures . 
Mrs. Holly shrank back , and cast appealing eyes toward her husband who at that moment had come across the yard from the barn . 
Simeon , can you tell what she wants ? At sight of the newcomer on the scene , the strange woman began again , with even more volubility . 
No , said Simeon Holly , after a moment's scowling scrutiny of the gesticulating woman . 
She's talking French , I think . 
Gosh ! I should say she did , muttered Perry Larson . 
An' whatever 't is , she wants it powerful bad . 
Are you hungry ? questioned Mrs. Holly timidly . 
Can't you speak English at all ? demanded Simeon Holly . 
The woman looked from one to the other with the piteous , pleading eyes of the stranger in the strange land who cannot understand or make others understand . 
She had turned away with a despairing shake of her head , when suddenly she gave a wild cry of joy and wheeled about , her whole face alight . 
The Hollys and Perry Larson saw then that David had come out onto the porch and was speaking to the woman and his words were just as unintelligible as the woman's had been . 
Mrs. Holly and Perry Larson stared . 
At its conclusion David turned to find the look of stupefaction still on the others' faces . 
Well , what does she want ? asked Simeon Holly crisply . 
She wants to find the way to Francois Lavelle's house . 
She came in on the train this morning . 
Her husband stopped off a minute somewhere , she says , and got left behind . 
He could talk English , but she can't . 
She's only been in this country a week . 
Gorry ! Won't ye listen ter that , now ? cried Perry Larson admiringly . 
Reads her just like a book , don't he ? There's a French family over in West Hinsdale two of 'em , I think . 
What'll ye bet 't ain't one o' them ? Very likely , acceded Simeon Holly , his eyes bent disapprovingly on David's face . 
It was plain to be seen that Simeon Holly's attention was occupied by David , not the woman . 
Why can't I go this afternoon an' tote her an' the kid along ? Very well , nodded Simeon Holly curtly , his eyes still on David's face . 
The woman still looked uncomprehending , however , and David promptly came to the rescue , saying a few rapid words that quickly brought a flood of delighted understanding to the woman's face . 
Can't you ask her if she's hungry ? ventured Mrs. Holly , then . 
She says no , thank you , translated David , with a smile , when he had received his answer . 
But the boy says he is , if you please . 
Then , tell them to come into the kitchen , directed Mrs. Holly , hurrying into the house . 
So you're French , are you ? said Simeon Holly to David . 
French ? Oh , no , sir , smiled David , proudly . 
He said I was born in this country . 
But how comes it you can speak French like that ? Why , I learned it . 
Then , divining that his words were still unconvincing , he added Same as I learned German and other things with father , out of books , you know . 
Didn't you learn French when you were a little boy ? Humph ! vouchsafed Simeon Holly , stalking away without answering the question . 
Immediately after dinner Perry Larson drove away with the woman and the little boy . 
The woman's face was wreathed with smiles , and her last adoring glance was for David , waving his hand to her from the porch steps . 
In the afternoon David took his violin and went off toward the hill behind the house for a walk . 
He had asked Mrs. Holly to accompany him , but she had refused , though she was not sweeping or dusting at the time . 
She was doing nothing more important , apparently , than making holes in a piece of white cloth , and sewing them up again with a needle and thread . 
David had then asked Mr. Holly to go but his refusal was even more strangely impatient than his wife's had been . 
And why , pray , should I go for a useless walk now or any time , for that matter ? he demanded sharply . 
David had shrunk back unconsciously , though he had still smiled . 
Oh , but it wouldn't be a useless walk , sir . 
Father said nothing was useless that helped to keep us in tune , you know . 
In tune ! I mean , you looked as father used to look sometimes , when he felt out of tune . 
And he always said there was nothing like a walk to put him back again . 
I I was feeling a little out of tune myself to day , and I thought , by the way you looked , that you were , too . 
So I asked you to go to walk . 
Humph ! Well , I That will do , boy . 
No impertinence , you understand ! And he had turned away in very obvious anger . 
David , with a puzzled sorrow in his heart had started alone then , on his walk . 
CHAPTER VII YOU'RE WANTED YOU'RE WANTED ! It was Saturday night , and the end of David's third day at the farmhouse . 
Upstairs , in the hot little room over the kitchen , the boy knelt at the window and tried to find a breath of cool air from the hills . 
Downstairs on the porch Simeon Holly and his wife discussed the events of the past few days , and talked of what should be done with David . 
But what shall we do with him ? moaned Mrs. Holly at last , breaking a long silence that had fallen between them . 
What can we do with him ? Doesn't anybody want him ? No , of course , nobody wants him , retorted her husband relentlessly . 
And at the words a small figure in a yellow white nightshirt stopped short . 
David , violin in hand , had fled from the little hot room , and stood now just inside the kitchen door . 
Who can want a child that has been brought up in that heathenish fashion ? continued Simeon Holly . 
Of course nobody wants him ! David , at the kitchen door , caught his breath chokingly . 
Then he sped across the floor to the back hall , and on through the long sheds to the hayloft in the barn the place where his father seemed always nearest . 
David was frightened and heartsick . 
He had heard it with his own ears , so there was no mistake . 
Then he thought of something else that his father had said Remember this , my boy , in your violin lie all the things you long for . 
With a quick cry David raised his violin and drew the bow across the strings . 
In the barn , I should say . 
But he'd gone to bed ! And he'll go to bed again , asserted Simeon Holly grimly , as he rose to his feet and stalked across the moonlit yard to the barn . 
As before , Mrs. Holly followed him , and as before , both involuntarily paused just inside the barn door to listen . 
No runs and trills and rollicking bits of melody floated down the stairway to night . 
The notes were long drawn , and plaintively sweet and they rose and swelled and died almost into silence while the man and the woman by the door stood listening . 
It had been the possibilities in a piece of crayon . 
Mrs. Holly spoke first and it was not as she had spoken on the porch . 
Simeon , she began tremulously , that dear child must go to bed ! And she hurried across the floor and up the stairs , followed by her husband . 
Come , David , she said , as she reached the top it's time little boys were asleep ! Come ! Her voice was low , and not quite steady . 
To David her voice sounded as her eyes looked when there was in them the far away something that hurt . 
Very slowly he came forward into the moonlight , his gaze searching the woman's face long and earnestly . 
And do you want me ? he faltered . 
The woman drew in her breath with a little sob . 
Before her stood the slender figure in the yellow white gown John's gown . 
Into her eyes looked those other eyes , dark and wistful , like John's eyes . 
And her arms ached with emptiness . 
Yes , yes , for my very own and for always ! she cried with sudden passion , clasping the little form close . 
For always ! And David sighed his content . 
Simeon Holly's lips parted , but they closed again with no words said . 
The man turned then , with a curiously baffled look , and stalked down the stairs . 
He he makes me think of John . 
Harsh lines came to the man's mouth , but there was a perceptible shake in his voice as he answered We're not talking of John , Ellen . 
We're talking of this irresponsible , hardly sane boy upstairs . 
He can work , I suppose , if he's taught , and in that way he won't perhaps be a dead loss . 
Still , he's another mouth to feed , and that counts now . 
There's the note , you know , it's due in August . 
But you say there's money almost enough for it in the bank . 
Mrs. Holly's voice was anxiously apologetic . 
Yes , I know vouchsafed the man . 
But almost enough is not quite enough . 
But there's time more than two months . 
It isn't due till the last of August , Simeon . 
I know , I know . 
Meanwhile , there's the boy . 
What are you going to do with him ? Why , can't you use him on the farm a little ? Perhaps . 
I doubt it , though , gloomed the man . 
One can't hoe corn nor pull weeds with a fiddle bow and that's all he seems to know how to handle . 
Then Simeon Holly rose and stalked into the house . 
The next day was Sunday , and Sunday at the farmhouse was a thing of stern repression and solemn silence . 
In Simeon Holly's veins ran the blood of the Puritans , and he was more than strict as to what he considered right and wrong . 
When half trained for the ministry , ill health had forced him to resort to a less confining life , though never had it taken from him the uncompromising rigor of his views . 
It was a distinct shock to him , therefore , on this Sunday morning to be awakened by a peal of music such as the little house had never known before . 
Simeon Holly was white with anger when he finally hurried down the hall and threw open David's bedroom door . 
Boy , what do you mean by this ? he demanded . 
And didn't you know ? he asked . 
Why , I thought my music would tell you . 
David stood motionless , his eyes questioning . 
Are you quite a heathen , then ? catechised the man sharply . 
Have they never told you anything about God , boy ? Oh , 'God' ? of course , smiled David , in open relief . 
God wraps up the buds in their little brown blankets , and covers the roots with I am not talking about brown blankets nor roots , interrupted the man severely . 
This is God's day , and as such should be kept holy . 
You should not fiddle nor laugh nor sing . 
But those are good things , and beautiful things , defended David , his eyes wide and puzzled . 
In their place , perhaps , conceded the man , stiffly . 
but not on God's day . 
You mean He wouldn't like them ? Yes . 
Oh ! and David's face cleared . 
That's all right , then . 
Your God isn't the same one , sir , for mine loves all beautiful things every day in the year . 
There was a moment's silence . 
For the first time in his life Simeon Holly found himself without words . 
We won't talk of this any more , David , he said at last but we'll put it another way I don't wish you to play your fiddle on Sunday . 
Now , put it up till to morrow . 
And he turned and went down the hall . 
Breakfast was a very quiet meal that morning . 
Meals were never things of hilarious joy at the Holly farmhouse , as David had already found out but he had not seen one before quite so somber as this . 
It was followed immediately by a half hour of Scripture reading and prayer , with Mrs. Holly and Perry Larson sitting very stiff and solemn in their chairs , while Mr. Holly read . 
After the devotions came an hour of subdued haste and confusion while the family prepared for church . 
David had never been to church . 
That one must be spick and span to go to church , David soon found out never before had he been so scrubbed and brushed and combed . 
The Hollys were early as usual , and service had not begun . 
Even the organist had not taken his seat beneath the great pipes of blue and gold that towered to the ceiling . 
It was the pride of the town that organ . 
It had been given by a great man whose birthplace the town was . 
More than that , a yearly donation from this same great man paid for the skilled organist who came every Sunday from the city to play it . 
Down in the Holly pew the small boy held his breath . 
Before a detaining hand could stop him , he was out in the aisle , his eyes on the blue and gold pipes from which seemed to come those wondrous sounds . 
Then his gaze fell on the man and on the banks of keys and with soft steps he crept along the aisle and up the stairs to the organ loft . 
For long minutes he stood motionless , listening then the music died into silence and the minister rose for the invocation . 
It was a boy's voice , and not a man's , however , that broke the pause . 
CHAPTER VIII THE PUZZLING DOS AND DON'TS With the coming of Monday arrived a new life for David a curious life full of don'ts and dos . 
David wondered sometimes why all the pleasant things were don'ts and all the unpleasant ones dos . 
Corn to be hoed , weeds to be pulled , woodboxes to be filled with all these it was do this , do this , do this . 
As to Farmer Holly Farmer Holly himself awoke to some new experiences that Monday morning . 
the joyous song of the morning before . 
In his home on the mountain he had had several of them for friends . 
He had learned to know and answer their calls . 
He had learned to admire their wisdom and to respect their moods and tempers . 
He loved to watch them . 
It was in the middle of a cornfield , and it was rising and falling and flopping about in a most extraordinary fashion . 
Very soon David , running toward it , saw why . 
By a long leather strip it was fastened securely to a stake in the ground . 
Oh , oh , oh ! exclaimed David , in sympathetic consternation . 
Here , you just wait a minute . 
With confident celerity David whipped out his jackknife to cut the thong but he found then that to fix it and to say he would fix it were two different matters . 
The crow did not seem to recognize in David a friend . 
He saw in him , apparently , but another of the stone throwing , gun shooting , torturing humans who were responsible for his present hateful captivity . 
Even then David had to leave upon the slender leg a twist of leather . 
David , after a minute's glad surveying of his work , donned his blouse again and resumed his walk . 
It was almost six o'clock when David got back to the Holly farmhouse . 
In the barn doorway sat Perry Larson . 
Well , sonny , the man greeted him cheerily , did ye get yer weedin' done ? Y yes , hesitated David . 
I got it done but I didn't like it . 
'T is kinder hot work . 
Oh , I didn't mind that part , returned David . 
What I didn't like was pulling up all those pretty little plants and letting them die . 
Weeds 'pretty little plants' ! ejaculated the man . 
Well , I'll be jiggered ! But they WERE pretty , defended David , reading aright the scorn in Perry Larson's voice . 
The very prettiest and biggest there were , always . 
Mr. Holly showed me , you know , and I had to pull them up . 
Well , I'll be jiggered ! muttered Perry Larson again . 
But I've been to walk since . 
Oh , ye do ! Oh , yes . 
I had a splendid walk . 
I went 'way up in the woods on the hill there . 
I was singing all the time inside , you know . 
I was so glad Mrs. Holly wanted me . 
You know what it is , when you sing inside . 
Perry Larson scratched his head . 
Well , no , sonny , I can't really say I do , he retorted . 
I ain't much on singin' . 
Oh , but I don't mean aloud . 
When you're happy , you know . 
When I'm oh ! The man stopped and stared , his mouth falling open . 
Suddenly his face changed , and he grinned appreciatively . 
Why , that's where I get my songs inside of me , you know that I play on my violin . 
And I made a crow sing , too . 
SING A CROW ! scoffed the man . 
Shucks ! It'll take more 'n you ter make me think a crow can sing , my lad . 
But they do , when they're happy , maintained the boy . 
Anyhow , it doesn't sound the same as it does when they're cross , or plagued over something . 
You ought to have heard this one to day . 
He was so glad to get away . 
I let him loose , you see . 
You mean , you CAUGHT a crow up there in them woods ? The man's voice was skeptical . 
Oh , no , I didn't catch it . 
But somebody had , and tied him up . 
And he was so unhappy ! A crow tied up in the woods ! Oh , I didn't find THAT in the woods . 
It was before I went up the hill at all . 
A crow tied up Look a here , boy , what are you talkin' about ? Where was that crow ? Perry Larson's whole self had become suddenly alert . 
In the field 'Way over there . 
And somebody The cornfield ! Jingo ! Boy , you don't mean you touched THAT crow ? Well , he wouldn't let me TOUCH him , half apologized David . 
He was so afraid , you see . 
Why , I had to put my blouse over his head before he'd let me cut him loose at all . 
Cut him loose ! Perry Larson sprang to his feet . 
You did n't you DIDn't let that crow go ! David shrank back . 
Why , yes he WANTED to go . 
He But the man before him had fallen back despairingly to his old position . 
Well , sir , you've done it now . 
What the boss'll say , I don't know but I know what I'd like ter say to ye . 
An' even then the job wa'n't done . 
Let me tell yer , 't wa'n't no small thing ter get him hitched . 
I'm wearin' the marks of the rascal's beak yet . 
An' now you've gone an' let him go just like that , he finished , snapping his fingers angrily . 
In David's face there was no contrition . 
There was only incredulous horror . 
You mean , YOU tied him there , on purpose ? Sure I did ! But he didn't like it . 
Couldn't you see he didn't like it ? cried David . 
Like it ! What if he didn't ? I didn't like ter have my corn pulled up , either . 
See here , sonny , you no need ter look at me in that tone o' voice . 
I didn't hurt the varmint none ter speak of ye see he could fly , didn't ye ? an' he wa'n't starvin' . 
I saw to it that he had enough ter eat an' a dish o' water handy . 
An' if he didn't flop an' pull an' try ter get away he needn't 'a' hurt hisself never . 
I ain't ter blame for what pullin' he done . 
See here , sonny , I wa'n't askin' you ter do no preachin' . 
What I did ain't no more'n any man 'round here does if he's smart enough ter catch one . 
Rigged up broomsticks ain't in it with a live bird when it comes ter drivin' away them pesky , thievin' crows . 
There ain't a farmer 'round here that hain't been green with envy , ever since I caught the critter . 
An' now ter have you come along an' with one flip o'yer knife spile it all , I Well , it jest makes me mad , clean through ! That's all . 
You mean , you tied him there to frighten away the other crows ? Sure ! There ain't nothin' like it . 
Oh , I'm so sorry ! Well , you'd better be . 
But that won't bring back my crow ! David's face brightened . 
No , that's so , isn't it ? I'm glad of that . 
I was thinking of the crows , you see . 
It was on the edge of the woods that he came upon two boys , each carrying a rifle , a dead squirrel , and a dead rabbit . 
The threatened rain of the day before had not materialized , and David had his violin . 
He had been playing softly when he came upon the boys where the path entered the woods . 
Oh ! At sight of the boys and their burden David gave an involuntary cry , and stopped playing . 
The boys , scarcely less surprised at sight of David and his violin , paused and stared frankly . 
It's the tramp kid with his fiddle , whispered one to the other huskily . 
David , his grieved eyes on the motionless little bodies in the boys' hands , shuddered . 
Are they dead , too ? The bigger boy nodded self importantly . 
We just shot 'em the squirrels . 
Ben here trapped the rabbits . 
He paused , manifestly waiting for the proper awed admiration to come into David's face . 
But in David's startled eyes there was no awed admiration , there was only disbelieving horror . 
You mean , you SENT them to the far country ? We what ? Sent them . 
Made them go yourselves to the far country ? The younger boy still stared . 
The older one grinned disagreeably . 
Sure , he answered with laconic indifference . 
We sent 'em to the far country , all right . 
But how did you know they WANTED to go ? Wanted Eh ? exploded the big boy . 
Then he grinned again , still more disagreeably . 
Well , you see , my dear , we didn't ask 'em , he gibed . 
Real distress came into David's face . 
Then you don't know at all . 
And maybe they DIDn't want to go . 
And if they didn't , how COULD they go singing , as father said ? Father wasn't sent . 
But these How would YOU like to have somebody come along and send YOU to the far country , without even knowing if you wanted to go ? There was no answer . 
David , left alone , went on his way with troubled eyes and a thoughtful frown . 
David often wore , during those first few days at the Holly farmhouse , a thoughtful face and a troubled frown . 
There were so many , many things that were different from his mountain home . 
Over and over , as those first long days passed , he read his letter until he knew it by heart and he had need to . 
The women they were even more incomprehensible . 
They spent the long hours behind screened doors and windows , washing the same dishes and sweeping the same floors day after day . 
They , too , never raised their eyes to the blue sky outside , nor even to the crimson roses that peeped in at the window . 
But , try as he would , there was yet an unreality about it all , a persistent feeling of uselessness and waste , that would not be set aside . 
And how full he filled those hours ! There was so much to see , so much to do . 
For sunny days there were field and stream and pasture land and the whole wide town to explore . 
For rainy days , if he did not care to go to walk , there was his room with the books in the chimney cupboard . 
Some of them David had read before , but many of them he had not . 
Side by side stood The Lady of the Lake , Treasure Island , and David Copperfield and coverless and dogeared lay Robinson Crusoe , The Arabian Nights , and Grimm's Fairy Tales . 
There were more , many more , and David devoured them all with eager eyes . 
The good in them he absorbed as he absorbed the sunshine the evil he cast aside unconsciously it rolled off , indeed , like the proverbial water from the duck's back . 
David hardly knew sometimes which he liked the better , his imaginative adventures between the covers of his books or his real adventures in his daily strolls . 
True , it was not his mountain home this place in which he found himself neither was there anywhere his Silver Lake with its far , far reaching sky above . 
More deplorable yet , nowhere was there the dear father he loved so well . 
With his violin for company David started out each day , unless he elected to stay indoors with his books . 
Sometimes it was toward the village that he turned his steps sometimes it was toward the hills back of the town . 
Very soon , however , David discovered that there was something to be found in his wanderings besides squirrels and roses and that was people . 
In spite of the strangeness of these people , they were wonderfully interesting , David thought . 
And after that he turned his steps more and more frequently toward the village when four o'clock released him from the day's work . 
At first David did not talk much to these people . 
He shrank sensitively from their bold stares and unpleasantly audible comments . 
He watched them with round eyes of wonder and interest , however , when he did not think they were watching him . 
And in time he came to know not a little about them and about the strange ways in which they passed their time . 
There was the greenhouse man . 
It would be pleasant to spend one's day growing plants and flowers but not under that hot , stifling glass roof , decided David . 
Besides , he would not want always to pick and send away the very prettiest ones to the city every morning , as the greenhouse man did . 
There was the doctor who rode all day long behind the gray mare , making sick folks well . 
David liked him , and mentally vowed that he himself would be a doctor sometime . 
There were the blacksmith and the storekeepers , too , but to these David gave little thought or attention . 
Though he might not know what he did want to do , he knew very well what he did not . 
All of which merely goes to prove that David was still on the lookout for that great work which his father had said was waiting for him out in the world . 
Meanwhile David played his violin . 
All of which merely goes to prove that David had perhaps found his work and was doing it although yet still again David did not know . 
It was in the cemetery one afternoon that David came upon the Lady in Black . 
She was on her knees putting flowers on a little mound before her . 
She looked up as David approached . 
For a moment she gazed wistfully at him then as if impelled by a hidden force , she spoke . 
Little boy , who are you ? I'm David . 
David ! David who ? Do you live here ? I've seen you here before . 
Oh , yes , I've been here quite a lot of times . 
Purposely the boy evaded the questions . 
David was getting tired of questions especially these questions . 
My mother is an angel mother , and my father has gone to the far country . 
He is waiting for me there , you know . 
But , that's the same that is She stopped helplessly , bewildered eyes on David's serene face . 
Then suddenly a great light came to her own . 
Oh , little boy , I wish I could understand that just that , she breathed . 
It would make it so much easier if I could just remember that they aren't here that they're WAITING over there ! But David apparently did not hear . 
He had turned and was playing softly as he walked away . 
Silently the Lady in Black knelt , listening , looking after him . 
When she rose some time later and left the cemetery , the light on her face was still there , deeper , more glorified . 
Toward boys and girls especially boys of his own age , David frequently turned wistful eyes . 
David wanted a friend , a friend who would know and understand a friend who would see things as he saw them , who would understand what he was saying when he played . 
It seemed to David that in some boy of his own age he ought to find such a friend . 
He had seen many boys but he had not yet found the friend . 
David had begun to think , indeed , that of all these strange beings in this new life of his , boys were the strangest . 
They stared and nudged each other unpleasantly when they came upon him playing . 
They jeered when he tried to tell them what he had been playing . 
Then there were their games and frolics . 
Such as were played with balls , bats , and bags of beans , David thought he would like very much . 
But the boys only scoffed when he asked them to teach him how to play . 
They sneered and called him a sissy . 
David did not know what a sissy was but from the way they said it , he judged it must be even worse to be a sissy than to be a thief . 
And then he discovered Joe . 
David had found himself in a very strange , very unlovely neighborhood that afternoon . 
The street was full of papers and tin cans , the houses were unspeakably forlorn with sagging blinds and lack of paint . 
Untidy women and blear eyed men leaned over the dilapidated fences , or lolled on mud tracked doorsteps . 
David , his shrinking eyes turning from one side to the other , passed slowly through the street , his violin under his arm . 
Nowhere could David find here the tiniest spot of beauty to play . 
He had reached quite the most forlorn little shanty on the street when the promise in his father's letter occurred to him . 
With a suddenly illumined face , he raised his violin to position and plunged into a veritable whirl of trills and runs and tripping melodies . 
If I didn't just entirely forget that I didn't NEED to SEE anything beautiful to play , laughed David softly to himself . 
He turned to confront a small girl in a patched and faded calico dress , obviously outgrown . 
Her eyes were wide and frightened . 
In the middle of her outstretched dirty little palm was a copper cent . 
If you please , Joe sent this to you , she faltered . 
To me ? What for ? David stopped playing and lowered his violin . 
The little girl backed away perceptibly , though she still held out the coin . 
He wanted you to stay and play some more . 
He said to tell you he'd 'a' sent more money if he could . 
But he didn't have it . 
He just had this cent . 
David's eyes flew wide open . 
You mean he WANTS me to play ? He likes it ? he asked joyfully . 
He said he knew 't wa'n't much the cent . 
But he thought maybe you'd play a LITTLE for it . 
Play ? Of course I'll play cried David . 
Oh , no , I don't want the money , he added , waving the again proffered coin aside . 
I don't need money where I'm living now . 
Where is he the one that wanted me to play ? he finished eagerly . 
In there by the window . 
The little girl , in spite of her evident satisfaction at the accomplishment of her purpose , yet kept quite aloof from the boy . 
Nor did the fact that he refused the money appear to bring her anything but uneasy surprise . 
In the window David saw a boy apparently about his own age , a boy with sandy hair , pale cheeks , and wide open , curiously intent blue eyes . 
Is he coming ? Did you get him ? Will he play ? called the boy at the window eagerly . 
Yes , I'm right here . 
Can't you see the violin ? Shall I play here or come in ? answered David , not one whit less eagerly . 
The small girl opened her lips as if to explain something but the boy in the window did not wait . 
WILL you come in ? he cried unbelievingly . 
And will you just let me touch it the fiddle ? Come ! You WILL come ? See , there isn't anybody home , only just Betty and me . 
Of course I will ! David fairly stumbled up the broken steps in his impatience to reach the wide open door . 
There , Joe , what'd I tell you , cried the little girl , in a husky whisper , darting to her brother's side . 
Oh , why did you make me get him here ? Everybody says he's crazy as a loon , and But the boy reached out a quickly silencing hand . 
His face was curiously alight , as if from an inward glow . 
His eyes , still widely intent , were staring straight ahead . 
Stop , Betty , wait , he hushed her . 
Maybe I think I DO understand . 
Boy , you mean INSIDE of you , you see those things , and then you try to make your fiddle tell what you are seeing . 
Is that it ? Yes , yes , cried David . 
Oh , you DO understand . 
And I never thought you could . 
I never thought that anybody could that did n't have anything to look at but him but these things . 
'Anything but these to look at' ! echoed the boy , with a sudden anguish in his voice . 
Anything but these ! I guess if I could see ANYTHING , I wouldn't mind WHAT I see ! An' you wouldn't , neither , if you was blind , like me . 
Blind ! David fell back . 
Face and voice were full of horror . 
You mean you can't see anything , with your eyes ? Nothin' . 
Oh ! I never saw any one blind before . 
There was one in a book but father took it away . 
Since then , in books down here , I've found others but Yes , yes . 
Well , never mind that , cut in the blind boy , growing restive under the pity in the other's voice . 
Won't you ? But how are you EVER going to know what a beautiful world it is ? shuddered David . 
How can you know ? And how can you ever play in tune ? You're one of the instruments . 
I told you Shucks , Betty ! He won't hurt ye , laughed Joe , a little irritably . 
Then to David he turned again with some sharpness . 
There ! breathed Joe , settling back in his chair with a contented sigh . 
Now , play it again what you did before . 
But David did not play what he did before at first . 
There were no airy cloud boats , no far reaching sky , no birds , or murmuring forest brooks in his music this time . 
Then suddenly to David came a new thought . 
This boy , Joe , had said before that he understood . 
He had seemed to know that he was being told of the sunny skies and the forest winds , the singing birds and the babbling brooks . 
Perhaps again now he would understand . 
What if , for those sightless eyes , one could create a world ? Possibly never before had David played as he played then . 
Gee ! breathed Joe , when the music came to an end with a crashing chord . 
The Widow Glaspell , Joe's mother , worked out by the day , scrubbing and washing and Joe , perforce , was left to the somewhat erratic and decidedly unskillful ministrations of Betty . 
True , at noon she never failed to appear and prepare something that passed for a dinner for herself and Joe . 
With the coming of David into Joe's life all this was changed . 
First , there were the music and the companionship . 
had been a powerful hand for music . 
Nor was listening always Joe's part . 
From just touching the violin his first longing plea he came to drawing a timid bow across the strings . 
In an incredibly short time , then , he was picking out bits of melody and by the end of a fortnight David had brought his father's violin for Joe to practice on . 
But you may take it . 
Then you can have it here to play on whenever you like . 
After that , in Joe's own hands lay the power to transport himself into another world , for with the violin for company he knew no loneliness . 
Nor was the violin all that David brought to the house . 
There were the doughnuts and the cookies . 
Very early in his visits David had discovered , much to his surprise , that Joe and Betty were often hungry . 
But why don't you go down to the store and buy something ? he had queried at once . 
He was not wishing to be called a thief a second time . 
It would be better , he concluded , to bring some food from the house instead . 
In his mountain home everything the house afforded in the way of food had always been freely given to the few strangers that found their way to the cabin door . 
So now David had no hesitation in going to Mrs. Holly's pantry for supplies , upon the occasion of his next visit to Joe Glaspell's . 
Mrs. Holly , coming into the kitchen , found him merging from the pantry with both hands full of cookies and doughnuts . 
Why , David , what in the world does this mean ? she demanded . 
They're for Joe and Betty , smiled David happily . 
For Joe and But those doughnuts and cookies don't belong to you . 
They're mine ! Yes , I know they are . 
I told them you had plenty , nodded David . 
Plenty ! What if I have ? remonstrated Mrs. Holly , in growing indignation . 
That doesn't mean that you can take Something in David's face stopped the words half spoken . 
You don't mean that I CAN'T take them to Joe and Betty , do you ? Why , Mrs. Holly , they're hungry ! Joe and Betty are . 
They don't have half enough to eat . 
And we've got more than we want . 
There's food left on the table every day . 
Why , if YOU were hungry , wouldn't you want somebody to bring But Mrs. Holly stopped him with a despairing gesture . 
There , there , never mind . 
Of course you can take them . 
I'm I'm GLAD to have you , she finished , in a desperate attempt to drive from David's face that look of shocked incredulity with which he was still regarding her . 
Never again did Mrs. Holly attempt to thwart David's generosity to the Glaspells but she did try to regulate it . 
She saw to it that thereafter , upon his visits to the house , he took only certain things and a certain amount , and invariably things of her own choosing . 
But not always toward the Glaspell shanty did David turn his steps . 
Very frequently it was in quite another direction . 
He had been at the Holly farmhouse three weeks when he found his Lady of the Roses . 
He had passed quite through the village that day , and had come to a road that was new to him . 
It was a beautiful road , smooth , white , and firm . 
Two huge granite posts topped with flaming nasturtiums marked the point where it turned off from the main highway . 
Beyond these , as David soon found , it ran between wide spreading lawns and flowering shrubs , leading up the gentle slope of a hill . 
Where it led to , David did not know , but he proceeded unhesitatingly to try to find out . 
Had David but known it , he was at Sunny crest , Hinsdale's one show place , the country home of its one really rich resident , Miss Barbara Holbrook . 
But David did not know all this and he therefore very happily followed the shady path until he came to the Wonder at the end of it . 
The Wonder , in Hinsdale parlance , was only Miss Holbrook's garden , but in David's eyes it was fairyland come true . 
For one whole minute he could only stand like a very ordinary little boy and stare . 
Why , boy , what does this mean ? she demanded . 
David sighed a little impatiently as he came forward into the sunlight . 
But I was just telling you , he remonstrated , and you would not let me finish . 
Telling me ! Yes , with my violin . 
COULDn't you understand ? appealed the boy wistfully . 
You looked as if you could ! Looked as if I could ! Yes . 
Joe understood , you see , and I was surprised when HE did . 
But I was just sure you could with all this to look at . 
Half unconsciously she glanced about her as if contemplating flight . 
Then she turned back to the boy . 
But how came you here ? Who are you ? she cried . 
I walked here through the little path back there . 
I didn't know where it went to , but I'm so glad now I found out ! Oh , are you ! murmured the lady , with slightly uplifted brows . 
I didn't suppose , anywhere , down here , there was a place one half so beautiful ! An odd feeling of uncanniness sent a swift exclamation to the lady's lips . 
'Down here' ! What do you mean by that ? You speak as if you came from above , she almost laughed . 
I did , returned David simply . 
This time the lady laughed outright . 
She even blushed a little . 
Very prettily put , Sir Flatterer she retorted but when you are older , young man , you won't make your compliments quite so broad . 
I am no Lady of the Roses . 
I am Miss Holbrook and and I am not in the habit of receiving gentlemen callers who are uninvited and unannounced , she concluded , a little sharply . 
Pointless the shaft fell at David's feet . 
He had turned again to the beauties about him , and at that moment he spied the sundial something he had never seen before . 
What is it ? he cried eagerly , hurrying forward . 
It isn 't exactly pretty , and yet it looks as if 't were meant for something . 
It marks the time by the sun . 
The next instant she found herself staring at the boy in amazement . 
That's pretty but what does it mean about 'counting' ? Miss Holbrook rose to her feet . 
For Heaven's sake , boy , who , and what are you ? she demanded . 
Can YOU read Latin ? Why , of course ! Can't you ? With a disdainful gesture Miss Holbrook swept this aside . 
Boy , who are you ? she demanded again imperatively . 
But David who ? Where do you live ? The boy's face clouded . 
I live at Farmer Holly's now but I did live on the mountain with father , you know . 
A great light of understanding broke over Miss Holbrook's face . 
She dropped back into her seat . 
Oh , I remember , she murmured . 
You're the little er boy whom he took . 
I have heard the story . 
So THAT is who you are , she added , the old look of aversion coming back to her eyes . 
She had almost said the little tramp boy but she had stopped in time . 
And now what do they mean , please , those words , 'I count no hours but unclouded ones' ? Miss Holbrook stirred in her seat and frowned . 
Why , it means what it says , of course , boy . 
Oh , but I like that ! he exclaimed . 
You like it ! Yes . 
I should like to be one myself , you know . 
Well , really ! And how , pray ? In spite of herself a faint gleam of interest came into Miss Holbrook's eyes . 
David laughed and dropped himself easily to the ground at her feet . 
He was holding his violin on his knees now . 
Why , it would be such fun , he chuckled , to just forget all about the hours when the sun didn't shine , and remember only the nice , pleasant ones . 
Now for me , there wouldn't be any hours , really , until after four o'clock , except little specks of minutes that I'd get in between when I DID see something interesting . 
What an extraordinary boy you are , to be sure , she murmured . 
And what , may I ask , is it that you do every day until four o'clock , that you wish to forget ? David sighed . 
Well , there are lots of things . 
I hoed potatoes and corn , first , but they're too big now , mostly and I pulled up weeds , too , till they were gone . 
I've been picking up stones , lately , and clearing up the yard . 
They were so much prettier than the things I had to let grow , 'most always . 
The change in her face was so very marked , indeed , that involuntarily David looked about for something that might have cast upon it so great a shadow . 
For a long minute she did not speak then very slowly , very bitterly , she said aloud yet as if to herself Yes . 
If I had my way I'd forget them every one these hours every single one ! Oh , Lady of the Roses ! expostulated David in a voice quivering with shocked dismay . 
Across the marble steps and the terraces the shadows lengthened , and David watched them as the sun dipped behind the tree tops . 
They seemed to make more vivid the chill and the gloom of the lady's words more real the day that had no sun . 
After a time the boy picked up his violin and began to play , softly , and at first with evident hesitation . 
For long minutes the young woman and the boy sat thus in the twilight . 
Then suddenly the woman got to her feet . 
Come , come , boy , what can I be thinking of ? she cried sharply . 
I must go in and you must go home . 
And she swept across the grass to the path that led toward the house . 
CHAPTER XI JACK AND JILL David was tempted to go for a second visit to his Lady of the Roses , but something he could not define held him back . 
David could not forget that for her there were no hours to count she had said it herself . 
He could not understand how this could be so and the thought filled him with vague unrest and pain . 
Perhaps it was this restlessness that drove David to explore even more persistently the village itself , sending him into new streets in search of something strange and interesting . 
One day the sound of shouts and laughter drew him to an open lot back of the church where some boys were at play . 
David still knew very little of boys . 
In his mountain home he had never had them for playmates , and he had not seen much of them when he went with his father to the mountain village for supplies . 
More recently , since David had been at the Holly farmhouse , his experience with boys had been even less satisfying . 
To day , however , there came a change . 
Perhaps they were more used to him or perhaps they had decided suddenly that it might be good fun to satisfy their curiosity , anyway , regardless of consequences . 
Whatever it was , the lads hailed his appearance with wild shouts of glee . 
Golly , boys , look ! Here's the fiddlin' kid , yelled one and the others joined in the Hurrah ! he gave . 
How how do you do ? he said diffidently , but still with that beaming smile . 
Again the boys shouted gleefully as they hurried forward . 
Several had short sticks in their hands . 
One had an old tomato can with a string tied to it . 
The tallest boy had something that he was trying to hold beneath his coat . 
'H how do you do ? they mimicked . 
How do you do , fiddlin' kid ? I'm David my name is David . 
The reminder was graciously given , with a smile . 
David ! David ! His name is David , chanted the boys , as if they were a comic opera chorus . 
Oh , sing it again , sing it again ! he crowed . 
Come on , tune her up ! We want ter dance . 
Play ? Of course I'll play , cried David joyously , raising his violin and testing a string for its tone . 
Here , hold on , yelled the tallest boy . 
The Queen o' the Ballet ain't ready . 
And he cautiously pulled from beneath his coat a struggling kitten with a perforated bag tied over its head . 
Sure ! We want her in the middle , grinned the boy with the tin can . 
Hold on till I get her train tied to her , he finished , trying to capture the swishing , fluffy tail of the frightened little cat . 
David had begun to play , but he stopped his music with a discordant stroke of the bow . 
What are you doing ? What is the matter with that cat ? he demanded . 
'Matter' ! called a derisive voice . 
Sure , nothin' 's the matter with her . 
She's the Queen o' the Ballet she is ! What do you mean ? cried David . 
At that moment the string bit hard into the captured tail , and the kitten cried out with the pain . 
Look out ! You're hurting her , cautioned David sharply . 
Only a laugh and a jeering word answered . 
Ready , now ! Come on , play , he ordered then we'll set her dancing . 
I will not play for that . 
The boys stopped laughing suddenly . 
Eh ? What ? They could scarcely have been more surprised if the kitten itself had said the words . 
I say I won't play I can't play unless you let that cat go . 
Hoity toity ! Won't ye hear that now ? laughed a mocking voice . 
Yow ! hooted the tallest boy , removing both hands from the captive kitten . 
The kitten , released , began to back frantically . 
The can , dangling at its heels , rattled and banged and thumped , until the frightened little creature , crazed with terror , became nothing but a whirling mass of misery . 
The boys , formed now into a crowing circle of delight , kept the kitten within bounds , and flouted David mercilessly . 
Ah , ha ! stop us , will ye ? Why don't ye stop us ? they gibed . 
For a moment David stood without movement , his eyes staring . 
The next instant he turned and ran . 
The jeers became a chorus of triumphant shouts then but not for long . 
David had only hurried to the woodpile to lay down his violin . 
He came back then , on the run and before the tallest boy could catch his breath he was felled by a stinging blow on the jaw . 
Over by the church a small girl , red haired and red eyed , clambered hastily over the fence behind which for long minutes she had been crying and wringing her hands . 
He'll be killed , he'll be killed , she moaned . 
The kitten , unheeded now by the boys , was pursuing its backward whirl to destruction some distance away , and very soon the little girl discovered her . 
With a bound and a choking cry she reached the kitten , removed the bag and unbound the cruel string . 
Then , sitting on the ground , a safe distance away , she soothed the palpitating little bunch of gray fur , and watched with fearful eyes the fight . 
Jack put a stop to things at once . 
There was left finally upon the ground only David alone . 
But when David did at last appear , the little girl burst into tears anew . 
Oh , Jack , he's killed I know he's killed , she wailed . 
And he was so nice and and pretty . 
And now look at him ! Ain't he a sight ? David was not killed , but he was a sight . 
His blouse was torn , his tie was gone , and his face and hands were covered with dirt and blood . 
Above one eye was an ugly looking lump , and below the other was a red bruise . 
Somewhat dazedly he responded to the man's helpful hand , pulled himself upright , and looked about him . 
He did not see the little girl behind him . 
Where's the cat ? he asked anxiously . 
With a sobbing cry the little girl flung herself upon him , cat and all . 
Here , right here , she choked . 
Suppose we first show our gratitude by seeing if we can't do something to make our young warrior here more comfortable . 
And he began to brush off with his handkerchief some of the accumulated dirt . 
Why can't we take him home , Jack , and clean him up 'fore other folks see him ? suggested the girl . 
Did you call him 'Jack' ? Yes . 
And he called you , Jill' ? Yes . 
But those aren't even our own names . 
We just call each other that for fun . 
Don't YOU ever call things for fun ? David's face lighted up in spite of the dirt , the lump , and the bruise . 
Oh , do you do that ? he breathed . 
On a fiddle , you know , like you . 
She had not finished her sentence before David was away , hurrying a little unsteadily across the lot for his violin . 
When he came back the man was looking at him with an anxious frown . 
Suppose you come home with us , boy , he said . 
It isn't far through the hill pasture , 'cross lots , and we'll look you over a bit . 
That lump over your eye needs attention . 
Thank you , beamed David . 
Beyond this David learned little until after bumps and bruises and dirt had been carefully attended to . 
He had then , too , some questions to answer concerning himself . 
Well , that's direct and to the point , to say the least , laughed the man . 
Evidently , however , you're in the habit of being that . 
But , David , there were six of them , those boys , and some of them were larger than you . 
And they were so bad and cruel , chimed in the little girl . 
The man hesitated , then questioned slowly . 
And may I ask you where you er learned to fight like that ? I used to box with father . 
He said I must first be well and strong . 
He taught me jiujitsu , too , a little but I couldn't make it work very well with so many I should say not , adjudged the man grimly . 
But I don't know yet who you are . 
Who is your father ? Where does he live ? David shook his head . 
As was always the case when his father was mentioned , his face grew wistful and his eyes dreamy . 
He doesn't live here anywhere , murmured the boy . 
In the far country he is waiting for me to come to him and tell him of the beautiful world I have found , you know . 
Eh ? What ? stammered the man , not knowing whether to believe his eyes , or his ears . 
This boy who fought like a demon and talked like a saint , and who , though battered and bruised , prattled of the beautiful world he had found , was most disconcerting . 
Why , Jack , don't you know ? whispered the little girl agitatedly . 
He's the boy at Mr. Holly's that they took . 
Then , still more softly He's the little tramp boy . 
His father died in the barn . 
Oh , said the man , his face clearing , and his eyes showing a quick sympathy . 
You're the boy at the Holly farmhouse , are you ? Yes , sir . 
And he plays the fiddle everywhere , volunteered the little girl , with ardent admiration . 
If you hadn't been shut up sick just now , you'd have heard him yourself . 
He plays everywhere everywhere he goes . 
Is that so ? murmured Jack politely , shuddering a little at what he fancied would come from a violin played by a boy like the one before him . 
Hm m well , and what else do you do ? Nothing , except to go for walks and read . 
Nothing ! a big boy like you and on Simeon Holly's farm ? Voice and manner showed that Jack was not unacquainted with Simeon Holly and his methods and opinions . 
Oh , of course , REALLY I do lots of things , only I don't count those any more . 
'Horas non numero nisi serenas , you knew , he quoted pleasantly , smiling into the man's astonished eyes . 
Jack , what was that what he said ? whispered the little girl . 
IS he foreign ? You've got me , Jill , retorted the man , with a laughing grimace . 
Heaven only knows what he is I don't . 
What he SAID was Latin I do happen to know that . 
Still he turned to the boy ironically of course you know the translation of that , he said . 
'I count no hours but unclouded ones' and I liked that . 
Don't you see ? For a moment the man stared dumbly . 
Then he threw back his head and laughed . 
Well , by George ! he muttered . 
By George ! And he laughed again . 
Then And did your father teach you that , too ? he asked . 
Oh , no , well , he taught me Latin , and so of course I could read it when I found it . 
But those 'special words I got off the sundial where my Lady of the Roses lives . 
It's over there she lives . 
I know those towers now , and I look for them wherever I go . 
It makes me see all over again the roses and her . 
You mean Miss Holbrook ? The voice was so different from the genial tones that he had heard before that David looked up in surprise . 
Yes she said that was her name , he answered , wondering at the indefinable change that had come to the man's face . 
There was a moment's pause , then the man rose to his feet . 
How's your head ? Does it ache ? he asked briskly . 
I I think I'll be going , replied David , a little awkwardly , reaching for his violin , and unconsciously showing by his manner the sudden chill in the atmosphere . 
The little girl spoke then . 
She overwhelmed him again with thanks , and pointed to the contented kitten on the window sill . 
David bowed himself off , with many a backward wave of the hand , and many a promise to come again . 
Not until he had quite reached the bottom of the hill did he remember that the man , Jack , had said almost nothing at the last . 
It was a bad half hour that David spent at the Holly farmhouse in explanation of his torn blouse and bruised face . 
Farmer Holly did not approve of fights , and he said so , very sternly indeed . 
Even Mrs. Holly , who was usually so kind to him , let David understand that he was in deep disgrace , though she was very tender to his wounds . 
They aren't very happy , I'm afraid , David , and I'm glad you could rescue the little girl's kitten for her but you mustn't fight . 
No good can come of fighting ! I got the cat by fighting . 
Yes , yes , I know but She did not finish her sentence , and David was only waiting for a pause to ask another question . 
Why aren't they happy , Mrs. Holly ? Tut , tut , David , it's a long story , and you wouldn't understand it if I told it . 
It's only that they're all alone in the world , and Jack Gurnsey isn't well . 
He must be thirty years old now . 
He had bright hopes not so long ago studying law , or something of the sort , in the city . 
Then his father died , and his mother , and he lost his health . 
Something ails his lungs , and the doctors sent him here to be out of doors . 
He even sleeps out of doors , they say . 
He found his work out in the world , and then he had to stop and couldn't do it . 
Poor Mr. Jack ! CHAPTER XIII A SURPRISE FOR MR . 
JACK Life at the Holly farmhouse was not what it had been . 
The coming of David had introduced new elements that promised complications . 
Not because he was another mouth to feed Simeon Holly was not worrying about that part any longer . 
Crops showed good promise , and all ready in the bank even now was the necessary money to cover the dreaded note , due the last of August . 
The complicating elements in regard to David were of quite another nature . 
To Simeon Holly the boy was a riddle to be sternly solved . 
To Perry Larson , David was the derndest checkerboard of sense an' nonsense goin' a game over which to chuckle . 
All this was most perplexing , to say the least . 
Yet David worked , and worked well , and in most cases he obeyed orders willingly . 
He learned much , too , that was interesting and profitable nor was he the only one that made strange discoveries during those July days . 
The Hollys themselves learned much . 
They learned that the rose of sunset and the gold of sunrise were worth looking at and that the massing of the thunderheads in the west meant more than just a shower . 
They were beginning to see the world with David's eyes . 
And here , too , the Hollys were learning though the thing thus learned was hidden deep in their hearts . 
It was not long after David's first visit that the boy went again to The House that Jack Built , as the Gurnseys called their tiny home . 
It was not a pleasant afternoon . 
There was a light mist in the air , and David was without his violin . 
I came to to inquire for the cat Juliette , he began , a little bashfully . 
I thought I'd rather do that than read to day , he explained to Jill in the doorway . 
Good ! I'm so glad ! I hoped you'd come , the little girl welcomed him . 
Juliette , roused from her nap , was at first inclined to resent her visitor's presence . 
In five minutes , however , she was purring in his lap . 
The conquest of the kitten once accomplished , David looked about him a little restlessly . 
He began to wonder why he had come . 
He wished he had gone to see Joe Glaspell instead . 
He wished that Jill would not sit and stare at him like that . 
He wished that she would say something anything . 
But Jill , apparently struck dumb with embarrassment , was nervously twisting the corner of her apron into a little knot . 
David tried to recollect what he had talked about a few days before , and he wondered why he had so enjoyed himself then . 
He wished that something would happen anything ! and then from an inner room came the sound of a violin . 
It's Jack , stammered the little girl who also had been wishing something would happen . 
He plays , same as you do , on the violin . 
Does he ? beamed David . 
But He paused , listening , a quick frown on his face . 
Over and over the violin was playing a single phrase and the variations in the phrase showed the indecision of the fingers and of the mind that controlled them . 
Again and again with irritating sameness , yet with a still more irritating difference , came the succession of notes . 
And then David sprang to his feet , placing Juliette somewhat unceremoniously on the floor , much to that petted young autocrat's disgust . 
Oh , please , Mr. Jack , burst out David , hurrying into the room . 
Don't you see ? You don't go at that thing right . 
If you'll just let me show you a minute , we'll have it fixed in no time ! The man with the violin stared , and lowered his bow . 
A slow red came to his face . 
The phrase was peculiarly a difficult one , and beyond him , as he knew but that did not make the present intrusion into his privacy any the more welcome . 
Oh , will we , indeed ! he retorted , a little sharply . 
Don't trouble yourself , I beg of you , boy . 
But it isn't a mite of trouble , truly , urged David , with an ardor that ignored the sarcasm in the other's words . 
I WANT to do it . 
Despite his annoyance , the man gave a short laugh . 
Well , David , I believe you . 
See ! To his surprise , the man found himself relinquishing the violin and bow into the slim , eager hands that reached for them . 
The next moment he fell back in amazement . 
Clear , distinct , yet connected like a string of rounded pearls fell the troublesome notes from David's bow . 
You see , smiled the boy again , and played the phrase a second time , more slowly , and with deliberate emphasis at the difficult part . 
Well , by George ! breathed the man dazedly , as he took the offered violin . 
The next moment he had demanded vehemently For Heaven's sake , who ARE you , boy ? David's face wrinkled in grieved surprise . 
Don't you remember ? I was here just the other day ! Yes , yes but who taught you to play like that ? Father . 
'Father' ! The man echoed the word with a gesture of comic despair . 
First Latin , then jiujitsu , and now the violin ! Boy , who was your father ? David lifted his head and frowned a little . 
He had been questioned so often , and so unsympathetically , about his father that he was beginning to resent it . 
He was daddy just daddy and I loved him dearly . 
But what was his name ? I don't know . 
We didn't seem to have a name like like yours down here . 
Anyway , if we did , I didn't know what it was . 
But , David , the man was speaking very gently now . 
He had motioned the boy to a low seat by his side . 
The little girl was standing near , her eyes alight with wondering interest . 
He must have had a name , you know , just the same . 
Didn't you ever hear any one call him anything ? Think , now . 
No. David said the single word , and turned his eyes away . 
It had occurred to him , since he had come to live in the valley , that perhaps his father did not want to have his name known . 
That was the only time David could recollect hearing his father say anything about his name . 
At the time David had not thought much about it . 
But since then , down here where they appeared to think a name was so important , he had wondered if possibly his father had not preferred to keep his to himself . 
But , David , think . 
Where you lived , wasn't there ever anybody who called him by name ? David shook his head . 
We were all alone , father and I , in the little house far up on the mountain . 
And your mother ? Again David shook his head . 
She is an angel mother , and angel mothers don't live in houses , you know . 
There was a moment's pause then gently the man asked And you always lived there ? Six years , father said . 
And before that ? I don't remember . 
There was a touch of injured reserve in the boy's voice which the man was quick to perceive . 
He took the hint at once . 
He must have been a wonderful man your father ! he exclaimed . 
The boy turned , his eyes luminous with feeling . 
He was he was perfect ! But they down here don't seem to know or care , he choked . 
Oh , but that's because they don't understand , soothed the man . 
Now , tell me you must have practiced a lot to play like that . 
I did but I liked it . 
But now he finished wistfully , it's all , so different , and I'm down here alone . 
Daddy went , you know , to the far country and he can't come back from there . 
Who told you that ? Daddy himself . 
He wrote it to me . 
Wrote it to you ! cried the man , sitting suddenly erect . 
It was in his pocket , you see . 
David's voice was very low , and not quite steady . 
David , may I see that letter ? The boy hesitated then slowly he drew it from his pocket . 
I'll let YOU see it . 
Reverently , tenderly , but very eagerly the man took the note and read it through , hoping somewhere to find a name that would help solve the mystery . 
With a sigh he handed it back . 
That is a beautiful letter , he said softly . 
And I believe you'll do it some day , too . 
You'll go to him with your violin at your chin and the bow drawn across the strings to tell him of the beautiful world you have found . 
Yes , sir , said David simply . 
Then , with a suddenly radiant smile And NOW I can't help finding it a beautiful world , you know , 'cause I don't count the hours I don't like . 
You don't what ? oh , I remember , returned Mr. Jack , a quick change coming to his face . 
Yes , the sundial , you know , where my Lady of the Roses lives . 
Jack , what is a sundial ? broke in Jill eagerly . 
Jack turned , as if in relief . 
Hullo , girlie , you there ? and so still all this time ? Ask David . 
He'll tell you what a sundial is . 
Suppose , anyhow , that you two go out on the piazza now . 
I've got er some work to do . 
And the sun itself is out see ? through the trees there . 
It came out just to say 'good night , I'm sure . 
Run along , quick ! And he playfully drove them from the room . 
Alone , he turned and sat down at his desk . 
His work was before him , but he did not do it . 
His eyes were out of the window on the golden tops of the towers of Sunnycrest . 
Motionless , he watched them until they turned gray white in the twilight . 
Then he picked up his pencil and began to write feverishly . 
I asked him , announced Jill . 
At four o'clock one afternoon , with his violin under his arm , he traveled the firm white road until he came to the shadowed path that led to the garden . 
He had decided that he would go exactly as he went before . 
He expected , in consequence , to find his Lady exactly as he had found her before , sitting reading under the roses . 
Great was his surprise and disappointment , therefore , to find the garden with no one in it . 
He did not even care to play , though all around him was the beauty that had at first so charmed his eye . 
Very slowly he walked across the sunlit , empty space , and entered the path that led to the house . 
In his mind was no definite plan yet he walked on and on , until he came to the wide lawns surrounding the house itself . 
He stopped then , entranced . 
Stone upon stone the majestic pile raised itself until it was etched , clean cut , against the deep blue of the sky . 
The towers his towers brought to David's lips a cry of delight . 
They were even more enchanting here than when seen from afar over the tree tops , and David gazed up at them in awed wonder . 
From somewhere came the sound of music a curious sort of music that David had never heard before . 
Once within the room David drew a long breath of ecstasy . 
Beneath his feet he felt the velvet softness of the green moss of the woods . 
On all sides silken hangings , like the green of swaying vines , half hid other hangings of feathery , snowflake lace . 
The music that David had heard at first had long since stopped but David had not noticed that . 
He stood now in the center of the room , awed , and trembling , but enraptured . 
Then from somewhere came a voice a voice so cold that it sounded as if it had swept across a field of ice . 
Well , boy , when you have quite finished your inspection , perhaps you will tell me to what I am indebted for THIS visit , it said . 
O Lady of the Roses , why didn't you tell me it was like this in here ? he breathed . 
Well , really , murmured the lady in the doorway , stiffly , it had not occurred to me that that was hardly necessary . 
But it was ! don't you see ? This is new , all new . 
I never saw anything like it before and I do so love new things . 
It gives me something new to play don't you understand ? New to play ? Yes on my violin , explained David , a little breathlessly , softly testing his violin . 
There's always something new in this , you know , he hurried on , as he tightened one of the strings , when there's anything new outside . 
Now , listen ! You see I don't know myself just how it's going to sound , and I'm always so anxious to find out . 
And with a joyously rapt face he began to play . 
It was the boy who spoke . 
There , I told you my violin would know what to say ! 'What to say' ! well , that's more than I do laughed Miss Holbrook , a little hysterically . 
Boy , come here and tell me who you are . 
And she led the way to a low divan that stood near a harp at the far end of the room . 
Did that make the music that I heard ? he asked eagerly , as soon as Miss Holbrook's questions gave him opportunity . 
I was playing when you came in . 
I saw you enter the window . 
Really , David , are you in the habit of walking into people's houses like this ? It is most disconcerting to their owners . 
Yes no well , sometimes . 
David's eyes were still on the harp . 
You see , I KNOW the towers . 
You KNOW them ! Yes . 
I can see them from so many places , and I always watch for them . 
They show best of anywhere , though , from Jack and Jill's . 
And now won't you play ? Miss Holbrook had almost risen to her feet when she turned abruptly . 
From where ? she asked . 
From Jack and Jill's the House that Jack Built , you know . 
You mean Mr. John Gurnsey's house ? A deeper color had come into Miss Holbrook's cheeks . 
Over there at the top of the little hill across the brook , you know . 
Can't we ? Explicit as this was , Miss Holbrook evidently did not hear , or at least did not understand , this request . 
She settled back on the divan , indeed , almost determinedly . 
Her cheeks were very red now . 
And do you know this Mr. Jack ? she asked lightly . 
Yes , and Jill , too . 
Don't you ? I like them , too . 
DO you know them ? Again Miss Holbrook ignored the question put to her . 
And did you walk into their house , unannounced and uninvited , like this ? she queried . 
You see he wanted to get off some of the dirt and blood before other folks saw me . 
The dirt and and why , David , what do you mean ? What was it an accident ? David frowned and reflected a moment . 
No. I did it on purpose . 
I HAD to , you see , he finally elucidated . 
But there were six of them , and I got the worst of it . 
David ! Miss Holbrook's voice was horrified . 
You don't mean a fight ! Yes'm . 
I wanted the cat and I got it , but I wouldn't have if Mr. Jack hadn't come to help me . 
Oh ! So Mr. Jack fought , too ? Well , he pulled the others off , and of course that helped me , explained David truthfully . 
And then he took me home he and Jill . 
Jill ! Was she in it ? No , only her cat . 
They had tied a bag over its head and a tin can to its tail , and of course I couldn't let them do that . 
And now , Lady of the Roses , won't you please play ? For a moment Miss Holbrook did not speak . 
She was gazing at David with an odd look in her eyes . 
At last she drew a long sigh . 
David , you are the the LIMIT ! she breathed , as she rose and seated herself at the harp . 
David was manifestly delighted with her playing , and begged for more when she had finished but Miss Holbrook shook her head . 
She seemed to have grown suddenly restless , and she moved about the room calling David's attention to something new each moment . 
Then , very abruptly , she suggested that they go upstairs . 
From room to room she hurried the boy , scarcely listening to his ardent comments , or answering his still more ardent questions . 
Not until they reached the highest tower room , indeed , did she sink wearily into a chair , and seem for a moment at rest . 
David looked about him in surprise . 
Even his untrained eye could see that he had entered a different world . 
There were no sumptuous rugs , no silken hangings no mirrors , no snowflake curtains . 
There were books , to be sure , but besides those there were only a plain low table , a work basket , and three or four wooden seated though comfortable chairs . 
With increasing wonder he looked into Miss Holbrook's eyes . 
Is it here that you stay all day ? he asked diffidently . 
Miss Holbrook's face turned a vivid scarlet . 
Say what ? when ? That other day in the garden about ALL your hours being cloudy ones . 
So I didn't know to day but what you LIVED up here , same as Mrs. Holly doesn't use her best rooms and that was why your hours were all cloudy ones . 
With a sudden movement Miss Holbrook rose to her feet . 
Nonsense , David ! You shouldn't always remember everything that people say to you . 
Come , you haven't seen one of the views from the windows yet . 
We are in the larger tower , you know . 
You can see Hinsdale village on this side , and there's a fine view of the mountains over there . 
Oh yes , and from the other side there's your friend's house Mr. Jack's . 
By the way , how is Mr. Jack these days ? Miss Holbrook stooped as she asked the question and picked up a bit of thread from the rug . 
David ran at once to the window that looked toward the House that Jack Built . 
From the tower the little house appeared to be smaller than ever . 
It was in the shadow , too , and looked strangely alone and forlorn . 
Unconsciously , as he gazed at it , David compared it with the magnificence he had just seen . 
His voice choked as he answered . 
He isn't well , Lady of the Roses , and he's unhappy . 
Miss Holbrook's slender figure came up with a jerk . 
What do you mean , boy ? How do you know he's unhappy ? Has he said so ? No but Mrs. Holly told me about him . 
He's sick and he'd just found his work to do out in the world when he had to stop and come home . 
Yes , I see , she murmured . 
The next instant she had snatched a handkerchief from David's outstretched hand . 
No no I wouldn't wave , she remonstrated hurriedly . 
Come come downstairs with me . 
But I thought I was sure he was looking this way , asserted David , turning reluctantly from the window . 
And if he HAD seen me wave to him , he'd have been so glad now , wouldn't he ? There was no answer . 
The Lady of the Roses did not apparently hear . 
She had gone on down the stairway . 
CHAPTER XV SECRETS David had so much to tell Jack and Jill that he went to see them the very next day after his second visit to Sunnycrest . 
He carried his violin with him . 
He found , however , only Jill at home . 
She was sitting on the veranda steps . 
There was not so much embarrassment between them this time , perhaps because they were in the freedom of the wide out of doors , and David felt more at ease . 
He was plainly disappointed , however , that Mr. Jack was not there . 
But I wanted to see him ! I wanted to see him 'specially , he lamented . 
You'd better stay , then . 
He'll be home by and by , comforted Jill . 
Pot boiling ! What's that ? Jill chuckled . 
Well , you see , really it's this way he sells something to boil in other people's pots so he can have something to boil in ours , he says . 
It's stuff from the garden , you know . 
We raise it to sell . 
Poor Jack and he does hate it so ! David nodded sympathetically . 
I know and it must be awful , just hoeing and weeding all the time . 
He's sick , you know , and sometimes he's so unhappy ! He doesn't say much . 
Jack never says much only with his face . 
But I know , and it it just makes me want to cry . 
At David's dismayed exclamation Jill jumped to her feet . 
It owned to her suddenly that she was telling this unknown boy altogether too many of the family secrets . 
Above the trees on the other side peeped the top of Sunnycrest's highest tower . 
To the Lady of the Roses ! cried David eagerly . 
I know it goes there . 
Come , let's see ! The little girl shook her head . 
Why not ? Jack won't let me . 
But it goes to a beautiful place I was there yesterday , argued David . 
And I was up in the tower and almost waved to Mr. Jack on the piazza back there . 
And maybe she'd let you and me go up there again to day . 
But I can't , I say , repeated Jill , a little impatiently . 
Jack won't let me even start . 
Why not ? Maybe he doesn't know where it goes to . 
Then she raised it defiantly . 
Oh , yes , he does , 'cause I told him . 
I used to go when I was littler and he wasn't here . 
I went once , after he came , halfway , and he saw me and called to me . 
I had got halfway across the bridge , but I had to come back . 
He was very angry , yet sort of queer , too . 
His face was all stern and white , and his lips snapped tight shut after every word . 
He said never , never , never to let him find me the other side of that gate . 
David frowned as they turned to go up the hill . 
Unhesitatingly he determined to instruct Mr. Jack in this little matter . 
David , nothing loath , played on and on . 
Most of the music he knew , having already learned it in his mountain home . 
Great Scott ! you're a wonder , David , he exclaimed , at last . 
Pooh ! as if that was anything wonderful , laughed the boy . 
Why , I knew those ages ago , Mr. Jack . 
It's only that I'm so glad to see them again the notes , you know . 
You see , I haven't any music now . 
, and we left that on the way . 
You left it ! Yes , 't was so , heavy murmured David abstractedly , his fingers busy with the pile of music before him . 
Oh , and here's another one , he cried exultingly . 
This is where the wind sighs , 'oou OOU OOU' through the pines . 
Listen ! And he was away again on the wings of his violin . 
When he had returned Mr. Jack drew a long breath . 
David , you are a wonder , he declared again . 
And that violin of yours is a wonder , too , if I'm not mistaken , though I don't know enough to tell whether it's really a rare one or not . 
Was it your father's ? Oh , no . 
He had one , too , and they both are good ones . 
You don't mean Widow Glaspell's Joe , the blind boy ? I didn't know he could play . 
He couldn't till I showed him . 
But he likes to hear me play . 
And he understood right away , I mean . 
UNDERSTOOD ! What I was playing , you know . 
And he was almost the first one that did since father went away . 
And now I play every time I go there . 
Joe says he never knew before how trees and grass and sunsets and sunrises and birds and little brooks did look , till I told him with my violin . 
And that's the kind he does see when I play . 
That's why I said he understood . 
For a moment there was silence . 
In Mr. Jack's eyes there was an odd look as they rested on David's face . 
Then , abruptly , he spoke . 
David , I wish I had money . 
I'd put you then where you belonged , he sighed . 
Do you mean where I'd find my work to do ? asked the boy softly . 
Father told me 't was waiting for me somewhere . 
And he was right , David . 
The only trouble is , we like to pick it out for ourselves , pretty well , too well , as we find out sometimes , when we're called off for another job . 
I know , Mr. Jack , I know , breathed David . 
And the man , looking into the glowing dark eyes , wondered at what he found there . 
In tune ? With the rest of the Orchestra . 
Oh ! And Mr. Jack , who had already heard about the Orchestra of Life , smiled a bit sadly . 
That's just it , my boy . 
And if we're handed another instrument to play on than the one we WANT to play on , we're apt to to let fly a discord . 
And where there wouldn't be any pulling weeds or hoeing dirt ? Well , I hadn't thought of including either of those pastimes . 
My , but I would like that , Mr. Jack ! but THAT wouldn't be WORK , so that couldn't be what father meant . 
Hm m well , I wouldn't worry about the 'work' part , laughed Mr. Jack , particularly as you aren't going to do it just now . 
There's the money , you know , and we haven't got that . 
And it takes money ? Well yes . 
You can't get those things here in Hinsdale , you know and it takes money , to get away , and to live away after you get there . 
A sudden light transfigured David's face . 
Mr. Jack , would gold do it ? lots of little round gold pieces ? I think it would , David , if there were enough of them . 
Many as a hundred ? Sure if they were big enough . 
Anyway , David , they'd start you , and I'm thinking you wouldn't need but a start before you'd be coining gold pieces of your own out of that violin of yours . 
Then he remembered the woman with the bread and the pail of milk , and decided not to . 
When he knew Mr. Jack better perhaps then he would tell but not now . 
NOW Mr. Jack might think he was a thief , and that he could not bear . 
Not until David had said good bye some time later , did he remember the purpose the special purpose for which he had come . 
He turned back with a radiant face . 
Oh , and Mr. Jack , I 'most forgot , he cried . 
I was going to tell you . 
I saw you yesterday I did , and I almost waved to you . 
Did you ? Where were you ? Over there in the window the tower window he crowed jubilantly . 
Oh , you went again , then , I suppose , to see Miss Holbrook . 
The man's voice sounded so oddly cold and distant that David noticed it at once . 
He was reminded suddenly of the gate and the footbridge which Jill was forbidden to cross but he dared not speak of it then not when Mr. Jack looked like that . 
He did say , however Oh , but , Mr. Jack , it's such a beautiful place ! You don't know what a beautiful place it is . 
And did you see HER my Lady of the Roses ? Why , y yes I believe so . 
And is THAT all you remember about it ? resented David , highly offended . 
The man gave a laugh a little short , hard laugh that David did not like . 
But , let me see you said you almost waved , didn't you ? Why did n't you , quite ? asked the man . 
David drew himself suddenly erect . 
Instinctively he felt that his Lady of the Roses needed defense . 
Because SHE didn't want me to so I didn't , of course , he rejoined with dignity . 
She took away my handkerchief . 
I'll warrant she did , muttered the man , behind his teeth . 
Aloud he only laughed again , as he turned away . 
David went on down the steps , dissatisfied vaguely with himself , with Mr. Jack , and even with the Lady of the Roses . 
CHAPTER XVI DAVID'S CASTLE IN SPAIN On his return from the House that Jack Built , David decided to count his gold pieces . 
He got them out at once from behind the books , and stacked them up in little shining rows . 
As he had surmised , there were a hundred of them . 
There were , indeed , a hundred and six . 
He was pleased at that . 
One hundred and six were surely enough to give him a start . 
A start ! David closed his eyes and pictured it . 
With boyish glee he capered about the room , jingling the coins in his hands . 
Then , very soberly , he sat down again , and began to gather the gold to put away . 
He would be wise he would be sensible . 
He would watch his chance , and when it came he would go away . 
First , however , he would tell Mr. Jack and Joe , and the Lady of the Roses yes , and the Hollys , too . 
Just now there seemed to be work , real work that he could do to help Mr. Holly . 
But later , possibly when September came and school , they had said he must go to school , he would tell them then , and go away instead . 
By that time they would believe him , perhaps , when he showed the gold pieces . 
They would not think he had STOLEN them . 
It was August now he would wait . 
But meanwhile he could think he could always be thinking of the wonderful thing that this gold was one day to bring to him . 
Even work , to David , did not seem work now . 
In the morning he was to rake hay behind the men with the cart . 
Yesterday he had not liked it very well but now nothing mattered now . 
And with a satisfied sigh David put his precious gold away again behind the books in the cupboard . 
David found a new song in his violin the next morning . 
There was too much work to do . 
He knew what it was , at once , too . 
It was the gold pieces , and what they would bring . 
All through the day it tripped through his consciousness , and danced tantalizingly just out of reach . 
Yet he was wonderfully happy , and the day seemed short in spite of the heat and the weariness . 
At four o'clock he hurried home and put his violin quickly in tune . 
It was this song that sent him the next afternoon to see his Lady of the Roses . 
He found her this time out of doors in her garden . 
Unceremoniously , as usual , he rushed headlong into her presence . 
Oh , Lady Lady of the Roses , he panted . 
I've found out , and I came quickly to tell you . 
Why , David , what what do you mean ? Miss Holbrook looked unmistakably startled . 
About the hours , you know , the unclouded ones , explained David eagerly . 
You know you said they were ALL cloudy to you . 
Miss Holbrook's face grew very white . 
You mean you've found out WHY my hours are are all cloudy ones ? she stammered . 
No , oh , no . 
I can't imagine why they are , returned David , with an emphatic shake of his head . 
It's just that I've found a way to make all my hours sunny ones , and you can do it , too . 
So I came to tell you . 
You know you said yours were all cloudy . 
Oh , ejaculated Miss Holbrook , falling back into her old listless attitude . 
You see , I did think , once , that because you had all these beautiful things around you , the hours ought to be all sunny ones . 
Dear me ! And what was this wonderful thing ? David smiled , but he shook his head . 
I can't tell you that yet in words but I'll play it . 
You see , I can't always play them twice alike , those little songs that I find , but this one I can . 
It sang so long in my head , before my violin had a chance to tell me what it really was , that I sort of learned it . 
Now , listen ! And be began to play . 
It was , indeed , a beautiful song , and Miss Holbrook said so with promptness and enthusiasm yet still David frowned . 
Yes , yes , he answered , but don't you see ? That was telling you about something inside of me that made all my hours sunshiny ones . 
Now , what you want is something inside of you to make yours sunshiny , too . 
Don't you see ? An odd look came into Miss Holbrook's eyes . 
That's all very well for you to say , David , but you haven't told me yet , you know , just what it is that's made all this brightness for you . 
The boy changed his position , and puckered his forehead into a deeper frown . 
I don't seem to explain so you can understand , he sighed . 
It isn't the SPECIAL thing . 
It's only that it's SOMETHING . 
And it's thinking about it that does it . 
Now , mine wouldn't make yours shine , but still , he broke off , a happy relief in his eyes , yours could be LIKE mine , in one way . 
Miss Holbrook smiled , but only with her lips , Her eyes had grown somber . 
But there isn't anything 'just beautiful' going to happen to me , David , she demurred . 
I used to think there could once , she admitted but I've given that up long ago . 
But couldn't you just THINK it was going to ? persisted the boy . 
You see I found out yesterday that it's the THINKING that does it . 
All day long I was thinking only thinking . 
I wasn't DOING it , at all . 
I was really raking behind the cart but the hours all were sunny . 
Miss Holbrook laughed now outright . 
What a persistent little mental science preacher you are ! she exclaimed . 
And there's truth more truth than you know in it all , too . 
But I can't do it , David , not that not that . 
'T would take more than THINKING to bring that , she added , under her breath , as if to herself . 
But thinking does bring things , maintained David earnestly . 
His mother works out all day and he's blind . 
Blind ? Oh h ! shuddered Miss Holbrook . 
Yes and he has to stay all alone , except for Betty , and she is n't there much . 
He THINKS ALL his things . 
He can't SEE anything with his outside eyes . 
But he sees everything with his inside eyes everything that I play . 
Why , Lady of the Roses , he's even seen this all this here . 
But Miss Holbrook sighed again and shook her head . 
Not that , David , not that , she murmured . 
It would take more than thinking to bring that . 
Then , with a quick change of manner , she cried Come , come , suppose we don't worry any more about MY hours . 
Tell me , what have you been doing since I saw you last ? Perhaps you have been again to to see Mr. Jack , for instance . 
I have but I saw Jill mostly , till the last . 
David hesitated , then he blurted it out Lady of the Roses , do you know about the gate and the footbridge ? Miss Holbrook looked up quickly . 
Again David hesitated , and again he blurted out the burden of his thoughts . 
Lady of the Roses , did you ever cross that bridge ? Miss Holbrook stirred uneasily . 
But you don't MIND folks crossing it ? Certainly not if they wish to . 
There ! I knew 't wasn't your blame , triumphed David . 
MY blame ! Yes that Mr. Jack wouldn't let Jill come across , you know . 
He called her back when she'd got halfway over once . 
Miss Holbrook's face changed color . 
But I do object , she cried sharply , to their crossing it when they DON'T want to ! Don't forget that , please . 
But Jill did want to . 
How about her brother did he want her to ? N no . 
Never had he seen his beloved Lady of the Roses look like this before . 
He was reminded of what Jill had said about Jack His face was all stern and white , and his lips snapped tight shut after every word . 
So , too , looked Miss Holbrook's face so , too , had her lips snapped tight shut after her last words . 
David could not understand it . 
He said nothing more , however but , as was usually the case when he was perplexed , he picked up his violin and began to play . 
And as he played , there gradually came to Miss Holbrook's eyes a softer light , and to her lips lines less tightly drawn . 
Neither the footbridge nor Mr. Jack , however , was mentioned again that afternoon . 
CHAPTER XVII THE PRINCESS AND THE PAUPER It was in the early twilight that Mr. Jack told the story . 
He , Jill , and David were on the veranda , as usual watching the towers of Sunnycrest turn from gold to silver as the sun dropped behind the hills . 
It was Jill who had asked for the story . 
About fairies and princesses , you know , she had ordered . 
But how will David like that ? Mr. Jack had demurred . 
Maybe he doesn't care for fairies and princesses . 
I read one once about a prince 't was 'The Prince and the Pauper , and I liked that , averred David stoutly . 
Mr. Jack smiled then his brows drew together in a frown . 
His eyes were moodily fixed on the towers . 
Hm m well , he said , I might , I suppose , tell you a story about a PRINCESS and a Pauper . 
I know one well enough . 
Good ! then tell it , cried both Jill and David . 
And Mr. Jack began his story . 
She was not always a Princess , and he was not always a Pauper , and that's where the story came in , I suppose , sighed the man . 
She was just a girl , once , and he was a boy and they played together and liked each other . 
He lived in a little house on a hill . 
Like this ? demanded Jill . 
Eh ? Oh er yes , SOMETHING like this , returned Mr. Jack , with an odd half smile . 
And she lived in another bit of a house in a town far away from the boy . 
Then how could they play together ? questioned David . 
It was only summers when she came to visit in the boy's town . 
Towers like those where the Lady of the Roses lives ? asked David . 
Eh ? What ? Oh er yes , murmured Mr. Jack . 
We'll say the towers were something like those over there . 
He paused , then went on musingly The girl used to signal , sometimes , from one of the tower windows . 
One wave of the handkerchief meant , 'I'm coming , over' two waves , with a little pause between , meant , 'You are to come over here . 
So the boy used to wait always , after that first wave to see if another followed so that he might know whether he were to be host or guest that day . 
The waves always came at eight o'clock in the morning , and very eagerly the boy used to watch for them all through the summer when the girl was there . 
Did they always come , every morning ? Asked Jill . 
No sometimes the girl had other things to do . 
On such occasions she did sometimes run up to the tower at eight o'clock and wave three times , and that meant , 'Dead Day . 
So the boy , after all , never drew a real breath of relief until he made sure that no dreaded third wave was to follow the one or the two . 
Seems to me , observed David , that all this was sort of one sided . 
Didn't the boy say anything ? Oh , yes , smiled Mr. Jack . 
But the boy did not have any tower to wave from , you must remember . 
He had only the little piazza on his tiny bit of a house . 
But he rigged up a pole , and he asked his mother to make him two little flags , a red and a blue one . 
So , you see , occasionally it was the boy who had to bring the 'Dead Day , as there were times when he had to work . 
And , by the way , perhaps you would be interested to know that after a while he thought up a third flag to answer her three waves . 
He found an old black silk handkerchief of his father's , and he made that into a flag . 
He told the girl it meant 'I'm heartbroken , and he said it was a sign of the deepest mourning . 
The boy was fourteen that summer , and the girl thirteen . 
They had begun their signals years before , but they had not had the black one so long . 
Then , as fast as her mischievous little feet could carry her , she raced down one hill and across to the other . 
Very stealthily she advanced till she found the boy bent over a puzzle on the back stoop , and and he was whistling merrily . 
And yet they were wonderfully good friends this boy and girl . 
What did the girl think ? It was Jill who asked the question . 
What did follow ? Well , to begin with , the old aunt died . 
The girl was sixteen then . 
It was in the winter that this happened , and the girl was far away at school . 
Yet he had hoped almost believed that she would wave two waves that last day , and let him go over to see her . 
But she didn't wave , and he didn't go over . 
And then the town learned a wonderful thing . 
And to the girl she willed it all . 
It was then , of course , that the girl became the Princess , but the boy did not realize that just then . 
To him she was still 'the girl . 
For three years he did not see her . 
She was at school , or traveling abroad , he heard . 
He , too , had been away to school , and was , indeed , just ready to enter college . 
Then , that summer , he heard that she was coming to the old home , and his heart sang within him . 
Remember , to him she was still the girl . 
He knew , of course , that she was not the LITTLE girl who had promised to marry him . 
You see he had forgotten quite forgotten about the Princess and the money . 
He would be ready when the girl waved for of course she would wave he would show her that he had not forgotten . 
He could imagine that she would like to find him napping that she would like to take him by surprise , and make him scurry around for his flags to answer her . 
Whichever it was , he would answer , of course , with the red 'All right . 
And it was that one which he laid uppermost ready to his hand , when he arranged them . 
He heard of it at once . 
It was already past four o'clock , but he could not forbear , even then , to look toward the tower . 
It would be like her , after all , to wave then , that very night , just so as to catch him napping , he thought . 
She did not wave , however . 
The boy was sure of that , for he watched the tower till dark . 
In the morning , long before eight o'clock , the boy was ready . 
He debated for some time whether to stand out of doors on the piazza , or to hide behind the screened window , where he could still watch the tower . 
Eight o'clock came and passed . 
The boy waited until nine , but there was no sign of life from the tower . 
The boy was angry then , at himself . 
He called himself , indeed , a fool , to hide as he did . 
As before he waited until nine and as before there was no sign of life at the tower window . 
The next morning he was there again , and the next , and the next . 
It took just five days , indeed , to convince the boy as he was convinced at last that the girl did not intend to wave at all . 
But how unkind of her ! exclaimed David . 
She couldn't have been nice one bit ! decided Jill . 
You forget , said Mr. Jack . 
Huh ! grunted Jill and David in unison . 
The boy remembered it then , went on Mr. Jack , after a pause , about the money , and that she was a Princess . 
And of course he knew when he thought of it that he could not expect that a Princess would wave like a girl just a girl . 
Besides , very likely she did not care particularly about seeing him . 
Princesses did forget , he fancied , they had so much , so very much to fill their lives . 
There came a day , however , when another youth , who did not dare to go alone , persuaded him , and together they paid her a call . 
The boy understood , then , many things . 
He found the Princess there was no sign of the girl . 
The Princess was tall and dignified , with a cold little hand and a smooth , sweet voice . 
There was no frank smile in her eyes , neither were there any mischievous crinkles about her nose and lips . 
There was no mention of towers or flags no reference to wavings or to childhood's days . 
There was only a stiffly polite little conversation about colleges and travels , with a word or two about books and plays . 
Then the callers went home . 
On the way the boy smiled scornfully to himself . 
As if that could happen ! The boy , during those last three years , had known only books . 
He knew little of girls only one girl and he knew still less of Princesses . 
Once he had refused to go on this very trip but then there had been the girl . 
Now there was only the Princess and the Princess didn't count . 
Like the hours that aren't sunshiny , interpreted David . 
Yes , corroborated Mr. Jack . 
Like the hours when the sun does n't shine . 
And then ? prompted Jill . 
Well , then , there wasn't much worth telling , rejoined Mr. Jack gloomily . 
Two more years passed , and the Princess grew to be twenty one . 
She came into full control of her property then , and after a while she came back to the old stone house with the towers and turned it into a fairyland of beauty . 
She spent money like water . 
All manner of artists , from the man who painted her ceilings to the man who planted her seeds , came and bowed to her will . 
From the four corners of the earth she brought her treasures and lavished them through the house and grounds . 
Then , every summer , she came herself , and lived among them , a very Princess indeed . 
And the boy ? what became of the boy ? demanded David . 
Didn't he see her ever ? Mr. Jack shook his head . 
Not often , David and when he did , it did not make him any happier . 
You see , the boy had become the Pauper you must n't forget that . 
But he wasn't a Pauper when you left him last . 
Wasn't he ? Well , then , I'll tell you about that . 
You see , the boy , even though he did go away , soon found out that in his heart the Princess was still the girl , just the same . 
Well , couldn't he ? No. To begin with , he lost his health . 
All ! You don't mean that that is the end ! exclaimed Jill . 
But that isn't a mite of a nice end , complained David . 
They always get married and live happy ever after in stories . 
Do they ? Mr. Jack smiled a little sadly . 
Perhaps they do , David , in stories . 
Well , can't they in this one ? I don't see how . 
Why can't he go to her and ask her to marry him ? Mr. Jack drew himself up proudly . 
The Pauper and the Princess ? Never ! Paupers don't go to Princesses , David , and say , 'I love you . 
Why not ? I don't see why if they want to do it . 
Seems as if somehow it might be fixed . 
To neither David nor Jill did the change to the present tense seem strange . 
The story was much too real to them for that . 
Well , anyhow , I think it ought to be fixed , declared David , as he rose to his feet . 
So do I but we can't fix it , laughed Jill . 
Let's see what there is to eat ! CHAPTER XVIII DAVID TO THE RESCUE It was a beautiful moonlight night , but for once David was not thinking of the moon . 
All the way to the Holly farmhouse he was thinking of Mr. Jack's story , The Princess and the Pauper . 
He felt that he never could forget it . 
For some reason that he could not have explained , it made him sad , too , and his step was very quiet as he went up the walk toward the kitchen door . 
It was after eight o'clock . 
David had taken supper with Mr. Jack and Jill , and not for some hours had he been at the farmhouse . 
In the doorway now he stopped short then instinctively he stepped back into the shadow . 
In the kitchen a kerosene light was burning . 
It showed Mrs. Holly crying at the table , and Mr. Holly , white faced and stern lipped , staring at nothing . 
Then Mrs. Holly raised her face , drawn and tear stained , and asked a trembling question . 
Simeon , have you thought ? We might go to John for help . 
David was frightened then , so angry was the look that came into Simeon Holly's face . 
Ellen , we'll have no more of this , said the man harshly . 
Understand , I'd rather lose the whole thing and and starve , than go to John . 
Up the back stairs he crept to his room and left his violin . 
A moment later he stole down again and sought Perry Larson whom he had seen smoking in the barn doorway . 
Perry , what is it ? he asked in a trembling voice . 
What has happened in there ? He pointed toward the house . 
The man puffed for a moment in silence before he took his pipe from his mouth . 
Well , sonny , I s'pose I may as well tell ye . 
You'll have ter know it sometime , seein' as 't won't be no secret long . 
They've had a stroke o' bad luck Mr. an' Mis' Holly has . 
What is it ? The man hitched in his seat . 
By sugar , boy , I s'pose if I tell ye , there ain't no sartinty that you'll sense it at all . 
I reckon it ain't in your class . 
But what is it ? Well , it's money and one might as well talk moonshine to you as money , I s'pose but here goes it . 
It's a thousand dollars , boy , that they owed . 
Here , like this , he explained , rummaging his pockets until he had found a silver dollar to lay on his open palm . 
Now , jest imagine a thousand of them that's heaps an' heaps more 'n I ever see in my life . 
Like the stars ? guessed David . 
Ex ACTLY ! Well , they owed this Mr. an' Mis' Holly did and they had agreed ter pay it next Sat'day . 
And they was all right , too . 
They had it plum saved in the bank , an' was goin' ter draw it Thursday , ter make sure . 
An' they was feelin' mighty pert over it , too , when ter day along comes the news that somethin's broke kersmash in that bank , an' they've shet it up . 
An' nary a cent can the Hollys git now an' maybe never . 
Anyhow , not 'fore it's too late for this job . 
But won't he wait ? that man they owe it to ? I should think he'd have to , if they didn't have it to pay . 
Not much he will , when it's old Streeter that's got the mortgage on a good fat farm like this ! David drew his brows together perplexedly . 
What is a a mortgage ? he asked . 
Is it anything like a porte cochere ? I KNOW what that is , 'cause my Lady of the Roses has one but we haven't got that down here . 
Perry Larson sighed in exasperation . 
Gosh , if that ain't 'bout what I expected of ye ! No , it ain't even second cousin to a a that thing you're a talkin' of . 
Well , now here 't is . 
Mr. Holly can't pay , an' so Streeter will put up the farm fur sale . 
What , with Mr. and Mrs. Holly LIVING here ? Sure ! Only they'll have ter git out , ye know . 
Where'll they go ? The Lord knows I don't . 
At the words a swift change came to David's face . 
His cheeks paled and his eyes dilated in terror . 
It was as if ahead of him he saw a yawning abyss , eager to engulf him . 
And you say MONEY would fix it ? he asked thickly . 
Ex ACT ly ! a thousand o' them , though , 't would take . 
A dawning relief came into David's eyes it was as if he saw a bridge across the abyss . 
You mean that there wouldn't ANYTHING do , only silver pieces like those ? he questioned hopefully . 
Would g gold do it ? David's voice was very faint now . 
Sure ! gold , or silver , or greenbacks , or or a check , if it had the dough behind it . 
David did not appear to hear the last . 
With an oddly strained look he had hung upon the man's first words but at the end of the sentence he only murmured , Oh , thank you , and turned away . 
He was walking slowly now toward the house . 
Now , ain't that jest like that chap , muttered the man , ter slink off like that as if he was a whipped cur . 
I'll bet two cents an' a doughnut , too , that in five minutes he'll be what he calls 'playin' it' on that 'ere fiddle o' his . 
An' I'll be derned , too , if I ain't curious ter see what he WILL make of it . 
It strikes me this ought ter fetch somethin' first cousin to a dirge ! On the porch steps David paused a breathless instant . 
From the kitchen came the sound of Mrs. Holly's sobs and of a stern voice praying . 
With a shudder and a little choking cry the boy turned then and crept softly upstairs to his room . 
He played , too , as Perry Larson had wagered . 
But it was not the tragedy of the closed bank , nor the honor of the threatened farm selling that fell from his violin . 
There was in the song , too , something of the struggle , the fierce yea and nay of the conflict . 
I've been thinking , stammered David , that maybe I could help , about that money , you know . 
Now , look a here , boy , exploded Perry , in open exasperation , as I said in the first place , this ain't in your class . 
'T ain't no pink cloud sailin' in the sky , nor a bluebird singin' in a blackb'rry bush . 
David stepped forward , bringing his small , anxious face full into the moonlight . 
But 't was the money , Perry I meant about , the money , he explained . 
They were good to me and wanted me when there wasn't any one else that did and now I'd like to do something for them . 
There aren't so MANY pieces , and they aren't silver . 
There's only one hundred and six of them I counted . 
But maybe they 'd help some . 
It it would be a start . 
His voice broke over the once beloved word , then went on with renewed strength . 
There , see ! Would these do ? And with both hands he held up to view his cap sagging under its weight of gold . 
Perry Larson's jaw fell open . 
Dazedly he reached out and touched with trembling fingers the heap of shining disks that seemed in the mellow light like little earth born children of the moon itself . 
The next instant he recoiled sharply . 
Great snakes , boy , where'd you git that money ? he demanded . 
He went to the far country , you know . 
Left it ! Why , boy , you know better ! There wa'n't a cent hardly found on him . 
He gave it to me before by the roadside . 
Gave it to you ! Where in the name of goodness has it been since ? In the little cupboard in my room , behind the books . 
Great snakes ! muttered Perry Larson , reaching out his hand and gingerly picking up one of the gold pieces . 
Won't they do ? he faltered . 
There aren't a thousand there's only a hundred and six but Do ! cut in the man , excitedly . 
He had been examining the gold piece at close range . 
Do ! Well , I reckon they'll do . 
And he hurriedly led the way toward the house . 
But they weren't up my sleeve , corrected David , as he tried to keep up with the long strides of the man . 
I SAID they were in the cupboard in my room . 
Larson had reached the porch steps , and had paused there hesitatingly . 
From the kitchen still came the sound of sobs . 
Aside from that there was silence . 
The boy , however , did not hesitate . 
He went straight up the steps and through the open kitchen door . 
At the table sat the man and the woman , their eyes covered with their hands . 
With a swift overturning of his cap , David dumped his burden onto the table , and stepped back respectfully . 
If you please , sir , would this help any ? he asked . 
At the jingle of the coins Simeon Holly and his wife lifted their heads abruptly . 
A half uttered sob died on the woman's lips . 
A quick cry came from the man's . 
He reached forth an eager hand and had almost clutched the gold when a sudden change came to his face . 
With a stern ejaculation he drew back . 
Boy , where did that money come from ? he challenged . 
David sighed in a discouraged way . 
It seemed that , always , the showing of this gold mean't questioning eternal questioning . 
Surely , continued Simeon Holly , you did not With the boy's frank gaze upturned to his , the man could not finish his sentence . 
Before David could answer came the voice of Perry Larson from the kitchen doorway . 
No , sir , he didn't , Mr. Holly an' it's all straight , I'm thinkin' though I'm free ter confess it does sound nutty . 
His dad give it to him . 
His father ! But where where has it been ever since ? In the chimney cupboard in his room , he says , sir . 
Simeon Holly turned in frowning amazement . 
I hadn't any use for it , you know , and father said to keep it till I needed it . 
'Hadn't any use for it' ! blustered Larson from the doorway . 
Jiminy ! Now , ain't that jest like that boy ? But David hurried on with his explanation . 
We never used to use them father and I except to buy things to eat and wear and down here YOU give me those , you know . 
Gorry ! interjected Perry Larson . 
Do you reckon , boy , that Mr. Holly himself was give them things he gives ter you ? The boy turned sharply , a startled question in his eyes . 
What do you mean ? Do you mean that His face changed suddenly . 
His cheeks turned a shamed red . 
Why , he did he did have to buy them , of course , just as father did . 
There isn't enough , maybe but 't will help ! They're ten dollar gold pieces , sir , spoke up Larson importantly an' there's a hundred an' six of them . 
That's jest one thousand an' sixty dollars , as I make it . 
Simeon Holly , self controlled man that he was , almost leaped from his chair . 
One thousand and sixty dollars ! he gasped . 
Then , to David Boy , in Heaven's name , who are you ? I don't know only David . 
The boy spoke wearily , with a grieved sob in his voice . 
He was very tired , a good deal perplexed , and a little angry . 
Simeon Holly fell back in his seat . 
His eyes clung to the gold , but his lips set into rigid lines . 
That money is the boy's , Larson . 
It isn't mine , he said . 
He's give it to ye . 
Simeon Holly shook his head . 
David is nothing but a child , Perry . 
He doesn't realize at all what he is doing , nor how valuable his gift is . 
I know , sir , but you DID take him in , when there wouldn't nobody else do it , argued Larson . 
An' , anyhow , couldn't you make a kind of an I O U of it , even if he is a kid ? Then , some day you could pay him back . 
Meanwhile you'd be a keepin' him , an' a schoolin' him an' that's somethin' . 
I know , I know , nodded Simeon Holly thoughtfully , his eyes going from the gold to David's face . 
I don't know , sir . 
But I do know this he didn't STEAL it ! Across the table Mrs. Holly drew a quick breath , but she did not speak save with her pleading eyes . 
Mrs. Holly seldom spoke save with her eyes when her husband was solving a knotty problem . 
She was dumfounded now that he should listen so patiently to the man , Larson , though she was not more surprised than was Larson himself . 
For both of them , however , there came at this moment a still greater surprise . 
Simeon Holly leaned forward suddenly , the stern lines quite gone from his lips , and his face working with emotion as he drew David toward him . 
You're a good son , boy , a good loyal son and and I wish you were mine ! I believe you . 
He didn't steal it , and I won't steal it , either . 
But I will use it , since you are so good as to offer it . 
But it shall be a loan , David , and some day , God helping me , you shall have it back . 
Meanwhile , you're my boy , David , my boy ! Oh , thank you , sir , rejoiced David . 
And , really , you know , being wanted like that is better than the start would be , isn't it ? Better than what ? David shifted his position . 
He had not meant to say just that . 
N nothing , he stammered , looking about for a means of quick escape . 
I I was just talking , he finished . 
And he was immeasurably relieved to find that Mr. Holly did not press the matter further . 
Not until he had relinquished all hope of his start did he fully realize what that hope had meant to him . 
There were times , to be sure , when there was nothing but rejoicing within him that he was able thus to aid the Hollys . 
To tell the truth , indeed , David's entire conception of life had become suddenly a chaos of puzzling contradictions . 
To Mr. Jack , one day , David went with his perplexities . 
Not that he told him of the gold pieces and of the unexpected use to which they had been put indeed , no . 
David had made up his mind never , if he could help himself , to mention those gold pieces to any one who did not already know of them . 
They meant questions , and the questions , explanations . 
And he had had enough of both on that particular subject . 
I mean , the folks that that make you do things . 
Well , he said , I believe some people make claims to quite a number , and perhaps almost every one owns to a Dr . 
Jekyll and a Mr. Hyde . 
Who are they ? Never mind , David . 
I don't think you know the gentlemen , anyhow . 
They're only something like the little girl with a curl . 
One is very , very good , indeed , and the other is horrid . 
Oh , yes , I know them they're the ones that come to me , returned David , with a sigh . 
I've had them a lot , lately . 
Oh , have you ? Yes and that's what's the trouble . 
How can you drive them off the one that is bad , I mean ? Well , really , confessed Mr. Jack , I'm not sure I can tell . 
You see the gentlemen visit me sometimes . 
Oh , do they ? Yes . 
I'm so glad that is , I mean , amended David , in answer to Mr. Jack's uplifted eyebrows , I'm glad that you understand what I'm talking about . 
You see , I tried Perry Larson last night on it , to get him to tell me what to do . 
But he only stared and laughed . 
Eh ? Now , what is the trouble ? Tell me about it . 
Instead of answering , he asked another question . 
Mr. Jack , it is a beautiful world , isn't it ? For a moment there was no , answer then a low voice replied Your father said it was , David . 
Yes but father was on the mountain . 
And down here well , down here there are lots of things that I don't believe he knew about . 
What , for instance ? Why , lots of things too many to tell . 
Of course there are things like catching fish , and killing birds and squirrels and other things to eat , and plaguing cats and dogs . 
Father never would have called those beautiful . 
Then there are others like little Jimmy Clark who can't walk , and the man at the Marstons' who's sick , and Joe Glaspell who is blind . 
Then there are still different ones like Mr. Holly's little boy . 
Perry says he ran away years and years ago , and made his people very unhappy . 
Oh , the story ? Yes and people like them can't be happy and think the world is beautiful , of course . 
Why not ? Because they didn't end right . 
They didn't get married and live happy ever after , you know . 
Well , I don't think I'd worry about that , David , at least , not about the Princess . 
I fancy the world was very beautiful to her , all right . 
The Pauper well , perhaps he wasn't very happy . 
But , after all , David , you know happiness is something inside of yourself . 
Perhaps half of these people are happy , in their way . 
There ! and that's another thing , sighed David . 
You see , I found that out that it was inside of yourself quite a while ago , and I told the Lady of the Roses . 
But now I can't make it work myself . 
It wasn't the DOING at all . 
I said I knew because I hadn't DONE it yet . 
See ? I think so , David . 
Now , what is the matter ? Mr. Jack laughed , but he shook his head a little sadly . 
You're getting into too deep waters for me , David . 
I suspect you're floundering in a sea that has upset the boats of sages since the world began . 
But what is it that was so nice , and that isn't going to happen ? Perhaps I MIGHT help on that . 
That she didn't have any hours to count , you know . 
To COUNT ? Yes it was the sundial . 
Didn't I tell you ? Yes , I know I did about the words on it not counting any hours that weren't sunny , you know . 
And she said she wouldn't have ANY hours to count that the sun never shone for her . 
I wasn't , because I said that same thing to her myself afterwards . 
Well , what did she say ? She shook her head , and said 'No . 
Then she looked away , and her eyes got soft and dark like little pools in the brook where the water stops to rest . 
And she said she had hoped once that this something would happen but that it hadn't , and that it would take something more than thinking to bring it . 
And I know now what she meant , because thinking isn't all that counts , is it ? Mr. Jack did not answer . 
He had risen to his feet , and was pacing restlessly up and down the veranda . 
Once or twice he turned his eyes toward the towers of Sunnycrest , and David noticed that there was a new look on his face . 
Er nothing nothing that you would understand , David . 
Go on with what you were saying . 
It's only that I'm wondering how I'm going to learn here that it's a beautiful world , so that I can tell father . 
He had the air of a man who determinedly throws to one side a heavy burden . 
Well , David , he smiled , as I said before , you are still out on that sea where there are so many little upturned boats . 
There might be a good many ways of answering that question . 
That is about what I should have expected of Mr. Holly retorted Mr. Jack grimly . 
He acts it and looks it . 
But I don't believe you are going to tell your father just that . 
No , sir , I don't believe I am , accorded David soberly . 
I have an idea that you're going to find that answer just where your father said you would in your violin . 
Things that aren't beautiful you'll make beautiful because we find what we are looking for , and you're looking for beautiful things . 
Yes , sir , I know , returned David fervently . 
And again Mr. Jack , looking into the sympathetic , glowing dark eyes , wondered if , after all , David really could know . 
Even yet Mr. Jack was not used to David there were so many of him , he told himself . 
There were the boy , the artist , and a third personality so evanescent that it defied being named . 
The boy was jolly , impetuous , confidential , and delightful plainly reveling in all manner of fun and frolic . 
The artist was nothing but a bunch of nervous alertness , ready to find melody and rhythm in every passing thought or flying cloud . 
All this thought Mr. Jack as he gazed into David's luminous eyes . 
CHAPTER XX THE UNFAMILIAR WAY In September David entered the village school . 
School and David did not assimilate at once . 
, in United States history he knew only the barest outlines of certain portions , and could not name a single battle in any of its wars . 
David's methods of recitation , too , were peculiar , and somewhat disconcerting . 
He also did not hesitate to speak aloud when he chose , nor to rise from his seat and move to any part of the room as the whim seized him . 
Outside of school David had little work to do now , though there were still left a few light tasks about the house . 
Home life at the Holly farmhouse was the same for David , yet with a difference the difference that comes from being really wanted instead of being merely dutifully kept . 
There were other differences , too , subtle differences that did not show , perhaps , but that still were there . 
Mr. and Mrs. Holly , more than ever now , were learning to look at the world through David's eyes . 
The day was a Saturday , clear , crisp , and beautiful , with a promise of October in the air and David fairly tingled to be free and away . 
Mrs. Holly was baking and the birds sang unheard outside her pantry window . 
Mr. Holly was digging potatoes and the clouds sailed unnoticed above his head . 
All the morning David urged and begged . 
If for once , just this once , they would leave everything and come , they would not regret it , he was sure . 
But they shook their heads and said , No , no , impossible ! In the afternoon the pies were done and the potatoes dug , and David urged and pleaded again . 
It was a curious walk . 
Ellen Holly trod softly , with timid feet . 
She threw hurried , frightened glances from side to side . 
It was plain that Ellen Holly did not know how to play . 
Simeon Holly stalked at her elbow , stern , silent , and preoccupied . 
It was plain that Simeon Holly not only did not know how to play , but did not even care to find out . 
The boy tripped ahead and talked . 
He had the air of a monarch displaying his kingdom . 
On one side was a bit of moss worthy of the closest attention on another , a vine that carried allurement in every tendril . 
Here was a flower that was like a story for interest , and there was a bush that bore a secret worth the telling . 
But the spruce back there ITS branches turned down and out didn't you notice ? and they're all bushy at the ends like a squirrel's tail . 
Oh , they're lots different ! That's a larch 'way ahead that one with the branches all scraggly and close down to the ground . 
I could start to climb that easy but I couldn't that pine over there . 
See , it's 'way up , up , before there's a place for your foot ! But I love pines . 
Up there on the mountains where I lived , the pines were so tall that it seemed as if God used them sometimes to hold up the sky . 
Nor were these all of David's friends to whom Mr. and Mrs. Holly were introduced on that memorable walk . 
There were the birds , and the squirrels , and , in fact , everything that had life . 
And each one he greeted joyously by name , as he would greet a friend whose home and habits he knew . 
Here was a wonderful woodpecker , there was a beautiful bluejay . 
Ahead , that brilliant bit of color that flashed across their path was a tanager . 
Once , far up in the sky , as they crossed an open space , David spied a long black streak moving southward . 
Oh , see ! he exclaimed . 
But they do ! These look as if they'd started on their winter journey South , too but if they have , they're early . 
Most of them don't go till October . 
They come back in March , you know . 
Though I've had them , on the mountain , that stayed all the year with me . 
My ! but I love to watch them go , murmured David , his eyes following the rapidly disappearing blackline . 
Lots of birds you can't see , you know , when they start for the South . 
They fly at night the woodpeckers and orioles and cuckoos , and lots of others . 
They're afraid , I guess , don't you ? But I've seen them . 
They tell each other when they're going to start . 
Oh , David , remonstrated Mrs. Holly , again , her eyes reproving , but plainly enthralled . 
But they do tell each other , claimed the boy , with sparkling eyes . 
They must ! For , all of a sudden , some night , you'll hear the signal , and then they'll begin to gather from all directions . 
Oof OOF OOF ! and they're gone ! And I don't see them again till next year . 
But you've seen the swallows , haven't you ? They go in the daytime , and they're the easiest to tell of any of them . 
They fly so swift and straight . 
Haven't you seen the swallows go ? Why , I I don't know , David , murmured Mrs. Holly , with a helpless glance at her husband stalking on ahead . 
I I didn't know there were such things to to know . 
There was more , much more , that David said before the walk came to an end . 
It was a beautiful month that September , and David made the most of it . 
Out of school meant out of doors for him . 
He saw Mr. Jack and Jill often . 
He spent much time , too , with the Lady of the Roses . 
David was very much at home at Sunnycrest . 
He was welcome , he knew , to go where he pleased . 
Perhaps best , next to the garden , David loved the tower room possibly because Miss Holbrook herself so often suggested that they go there . 
Fairy stories , David ? asked Miss Holbrook lightly . 
No , not exactly , though there was a Princess in it . 
David's eyes were still out of the window . 
Oh , Mr. Jack ! And does Mr. Jack often tell you stories ? No. He never told only this one and maybe that's why I remember it so . 
Well , and what did the Princess do ? Miss Holbrook's voice was still light , still carelessly preoccupied . 
Her attention , plainly , was given to the sewing in her hand . 
She didn't do and that's what was the trouble , sighed I David . 
She didn't wave , you know . 
The needle in Miss Holbrook's fingers stopped short in mid air , the thread half drawn . 
Didn't wave ! she stammered . 
What do you mean ? Nothing , laughed the boy , turning away from the window . 
I forgot that you didn't know the story . 
But maybe I do that is what was the story ? asked Miss Holbrook , wetting her lips as if they had grown suddenly very dry . 
Do you know the story ? There was no answer . 
Miss Holbrook was putting away her work , hurriedly , and with hands that shook . 
David noticed that she even pricked herself in her anxiety to get the needle tucked away . 
Then she drew him to a low stool at her side . 
David , I want you to tell me that story , please , she said , just as Mr. Jack told it to you . 
Oh , do you want to hear it ? Then I will tell it , cried David joyfully . 
To David , almost as delightful as to hear a story was to tell one himself . 
You see , first And he plunged headlong into the introduction . 
David knew it well that story and there was , perhaps , little that he forgot . 
Do you mean to say , interposed Miss Holbrook then , almost starting to her feet , that that boy expected She stopped suddenly , and fell back in her chair . 
The two red spots on her cheeks had become a rosy glow now , all over her face . 
Expected what ? asked David . 
I was so so interested , explained Miss Holbrook faintly . 
And David did go on nor did the story lose by his telling . 
And so , he concluded mournfully , you see it isn't a very nice story , after all , for it didn't end well a bit . 
They ought to have got married and lived happy ever after . 
Miss Holbrook drew in her breath a little uncertainly , and put her hand to her throat . 
Her face now , instead of being red , was very white . 
But , David , she faltered , after a moment , perhaps he the Pauper did not not love the Princess any longer . 
Mr. Jack said that he did . 
The white face went suddenly pink again . 
Then , why didn't he go to her and and tell her ? David lifted his chin . 
With all his dignity he answered , and his words and accent were Mr. Jack's . 
Paupers don't go to Princesses , and say I love you . 
But perhaps if they did that is if Miss Holbrook bit her lips and did not finish her sentence . 
She did not , indeed , say anything more for a long time . 
But she had not forgotten the story . 
David knew that , because later she began to question him carefully about many little points points that he was very sure he had already made quite plain . 
She talked about it , indeed , until he wondered if perhaps she were going to tell it to some one else sometime . 
He asked her if she were but she only shook her head . 
And after that she did not question him any more . 
And a little later David went home . 
Jack , it hasn't been David's fault at all , she cried remorsefully . 
Sick ! Yes awfully sick . 
They've had to send away for doctors and everything . 
Why , Jill , are you sure ? Where did you hear this ? At school to day . 
Every one was talking about it . 
But what is the matter ? Fever some sort . 
Some say it's typhoid , and some scarlet , and some say another kind that I can't remember but everybody says he's awfully sick . 
He got it down to Glaspell's , some say , and some say he didn't . 
But , anyhow , Betty Glaspell has been sick with something , and they haven't let folks in there this week , finished Jill , her eyes big with terror . 
The Glaspells ? But what was David doing down there ? Why , you know , he told us once , teaching Joe to play . 
I'll go down to the Hollys' , Jill , the first thing tomorrow morning , and see how he is and if there's anything we can do . 
Meanwhile , don't take it too much to heart , dear . 
It may not be half so bad as you think . 
School children always get things like that exaggerated , you must remember , he finished , speaking with a lightness that he did not feel . 
To himself the man owned that he was troubled , seriously troubled . 
He did not need Jill's anxious Now , hurry , Jack , the next morning to start him off in all haste for the Holly farmhouse . 
A dozen rods from the driveway he met Perry Larson and stopped him abruptly . 
Good morning , Larson I hope this isn't true what I hear that David is very ill . 
Larson pulled off his hat and with his free hand sought the one particular spot on his head to which he always appealed when he was very much troubled . 
Well , yes , sir , I'm afraid 't is , Mr. Jack er Mr. Gurnsey , I mean . 
He is turrible sick , poor little chap , an' it's too bad that's what it is too bad ! Oh , I'm sorry ! I hoped the report was exaggerated . 
I came down to see if if there wasn't something I could do . 
Well , 'course you can ask there ain't no law ag'in' that an' ye needn't be afraid , neither . 
The report has got 'round that it's ketchin' what he's got , and that he got it down to the Glaspells' but 't ain't so . 
The doctor says he didn't ketch nothin' , an' he can't give nothin' . 
It's his head an' brain that ain't right , an' he's got a mighty bad fever . 
He's been kind of flighty an' nervous , anyhow , lately . 
As I was sayin' , 'course you can ask , but I'm thinkin' there won't be nothin' you can do ter help . 
Ev'rythin' that can be done is bein' done . 
In fact , there ain't much of anythin' else that is bein' done down there jest now but , tendin' ter him . 
An' then there's Mr. an' Mis' Holly besides . 
If they had THEIR way , there wouldn't neither of , em let him out o' their sight fur a minute , they're that cut up about it . 
I fancy they think a good deal of the boy as we all do , murmured the younger man , a little unsteadily . 
Larson winkled his forehead in deep thought . 
Yes an' that's what beats me , he answered slowly 'bout HIM , Mr. Holly , I mean . 
'Course we'd 'a' expected it of HER losin' her own boy as she did , an' bein' jest naturally so sweet an' lovin' hearted . 
Now , you know jest as well as I do what Mr. Holly is every one does , so I ain't sayin' nothin' sland'rous . 
He's a good man a powerful good man an' there ain't a squarer man goin' ter work fur . 
Now , there's Mis' Holly she's tried ter smooth 'em , I'll warrant , lots of times . 
But I'm free ter say she hain't never so much as clipped a ravelin' in all them forty years they've lived tergether . 
Fact is , it's worked the other way with her . 
I wish I could do something , he murmured uncertainly . 
'T ain't likely ye can not so long as Mr. an' Mis' Holly is on their two feet . 
You understand , 'course , sir , the little chap ain't right in his head , an' so half the time he don't know what he says . 
Oh , I'm sorry , sorry ! exclaimed Gurnsey , as he turned away , and hurried toward the farmhouse . 
Mrs. Holly herself answered his low knock . 
She looked worn and pale . 
Thank you , sir , she said gratefully , in reply to his offer of assistance , but there isn't anything you can do , Mr. Gurnsey . 
We're having everything done that can be , and every one is very kind . 
We have a very good nurse , and Dr . 
Kennedy has had consultation with Dr . 
They are doing all in their power , of course , but they say that that it's going to be the nursing that will count now . 
Then I don't fear for him , surely declared the man , with fervor . 
I know , but well , he shall have the very best possible of that . 
I know he will but isn't there anything anything that I can do ? She shook her head . 
And he shall see me , asserted Gurnsey . 
And he will be better , Mrs. Holly , I'm sure he will . 
Poor little chap ! Mr. Jack's voice , too , was husky . 
She looked up with swift gratefulness for his sympathy . 
And you loved him , too , I know she choked . 
He talks of you often very often . 
Indeed I love him ! Who could help it ? There couldn't anybody , Mr. Jack , and that's just it . 
Now , since he's been sick , we've wondered more than ever who he is . 
You see , I can't help thinking that somewhere he's got friends who ought to know about him now . 
Yes , I see , nodded the man . 
He isn't an ordinary boy , Mr. Jack . 
He's been trained in lots of ways about his manners , and at the table , and all that . 
And lots of things his father has told him are beautiful , just beautiful ! He isn't a tramp . 
YOU know how he can play . 
Indeed I do ! You must miss his playing , too . 
It's 'his song , as he calls it , that he talks about , always . 
And when I ask him what he's going to sing , he always says , 'My song my song , just like that . 
Do you think , Mr. Jack , he did have a song ? For a moment the man did not answer . 
Something in his throat tightened , and held the words . 
Then , in a low voice he managed to stammer I think he did , Mrs. Holly , and I think he sang it , too . 
The next moment , with a quick lifting of his hat and a murmured I'll call again soon , he turned and walked swiftly down the driveway . 
What he saw as he gravely raised his hat was a handsome span of black horses , a liveried coachman , and a pair of startled eyes looking straight into his . 
What he did not see was the quick gesture with which Miss Holbrook almost ordered her carriage stopped the minute it had passed him by . 
CHAPTER XXII AS PERRY SAW IT One by one the days passed , and there came from the anxious watchers at David's bedside only the words , There's very little change . 
Often Jack Gurnsey went to the farmhouse to inquire for the boy . 
Often , too , he saw Perry Larson and Perry was never loath to talk of David . 
It was from Perry , indeed , that Gurnsey began to learn some things of David that he had never known before . 
Now , there's old Mis' Somers , fur instance . 
YOU know what she is sour as a lemon an' puckery as a chokecherry . 
Well , if she didn't give me yesterday a great bo kay o' posies she'd growed herself , an' said they was fur him that they berlonged ter him , anyhow . 
, an' she heard an' spoke up pretty sharp an' asked him what in time he was doin' . 
Well , most kids would 'a' run , knowin' her temper as they does , but not much David . 
Well , Mis' Somers owned up ter me that she was pretty mad at the time , 'cause her garden did look like tunket , an' she knew it . 
She said she hadn't cared ter do a thing with it since her Bessie died that thought so much of it . 
An , now it's doin' beautiful , so she jest could n't help sendin' them posies ter David . 
An' then there's the Widder Glaspell , continued Perry , after a pause . 
'Course , any one would expect she'd feel bad , seein' as how good David was ter her boy teachin' him ter play , ye know . 
An' there's the Clark kid . 
He's lame , ye know , an' he thought the world an' all of David's playin' . 
'Course , there's you an' Miss Holbrook , always askin' an' sendin' things but that ain't so strange , 'cause you was 'specially his friends . 
But it's them others what beats me . 
Why , some days it's 'most ev'ry soul I meet , jest askin' how he is , an' sayin' they hopes he'll git well . 
There was Bill Dowd , too . 
You know he really HAS got a screw loose in his head somewheres , an' there ain't any one but what says he's the town fool , all right . 
Well , what do ye think HE said ? Mr. Jack shook his head . 
Mr. Jack soberly , that Bill Dowd wasn't playing the fool , when he said that , quite so much as he sometimes is , perhaps . 
Hm m , maybe not , murmured Perry Larson perplexedly . 
Still , I'm free ter say I do think 't was kind o' queer . 
He paused , then slapped his knee suddenly . 
Say , did I tell ye about Streeter Old Bill Streeter an' the pear tree ? Again Mr. Jack shook his head . 
Well , then , I'm goin' to , declared the other , with gleeful emphasis . 
An' , say , I don't believe even YOU can explain this I don't ! Well , you know Streeter ev'ry one does , so I ain't sayin' nothin' sland'rous . 
He was cut on a bias , an' that bias runs ter money every time . 
I'm blamed if I don't think that if he ever gits ter heaven , he'll pluck his own wings an' sell the feathers fur what they'll bring . 
Oh , Perry ! remonstrated Mr. Jack , in a half stifled voice . 
Perry Larson only grinned and went on imperturbably . 
Well , seein' as we both understand what he is , I'll tell ye what he DONE . 
He called me up ter his fence one day , big as life , an' says he , 'How's the boy ? An' you could 'a' knocked me down with a feather . 
Streeter a askin' how a boy was that was sick ! An' he seemed ter care , too . 
So I set to on a little detective work of my own , knowin' , of course , that 't wa'n't no use askin' of him himself . 
They declared that actually he give him a cent once though THAT part I ain't swallerin' yet . 
They said the neighbors did that it all started from the pear tree that big one ter the left of his house . 
Well , old Streeter said it had got ter come down . 
'T was when the boy first come . 
He danced and laughed and clapped his hands , he didn't have his fiddle with him , an' carried on like all possessed . 
Then he sees the man with the axe , an' Streeter an' Streeter sees him . 
They said it was rich then Bill Warner heard it all from t'other side of the fence . 
'No use no use ! he cries 'such a perfectly beautiful thing as that no use ! Why , it don't have ter be any use when it's so pretty . 
It's jest ter look at an' love , an' be happy with ! Fancy sayin' that ter old Streeter ! I'd like ter seen his face . 
But Bill says that wa'n't half what the boy said . 
Then , after that blackest day and night , came the dawn as the dawns do come after the blackest of days and nights . 
In the slender wrist outside the coverlet the pulse gained and steadied . 
On the forehead beneath the nurse's fingers , a moisture came . 
The doctors nodded their heads now , and looked every one straight in the eye . 
He will live , they said . 
Say , do you know , I didn't s'pose I did care so much ! I reckon I'll go an' tell Mr. Jack . 
CHAPTER XXIII PUZZLES David's convalescence was picturesque , in a way . 
As soon as he was able , like a king he sat upon his throne and received his subjects and a very gracious king he was , indeed . 
David discovered this last curious circumstance concerning Mr. Jack and Miss Holbrook very early in his convalescence . 
It was on the second afternoon that Mr. Jack had been admitted to the sick room . 
David had been hearing all the latest news of Jill and Joe , when suddenly he noticed an odd change come to his visitor's face . 
The windows of the Holly parlor bedroom commanded a fine view of the road , and it was toward one of these windows that Mr. Jack's eyes were directed . 
He watched it eagerly now till he saw the horses turn in at the Holly driveway . 
Then he gave a low cry of delight . 
It's my Lady of the Roses ! She's coming to see me . 
Look ! Oh , I'm so glad ! Now you'll see her , and just KNOW how lovely she is . 
Why , Mr. Jack , you aren't going NOW ! he broke off in manifest disappointment , as Mr. Jack leaped to his feet . 
I think I'll have to , if you don't mind , David , returned the man , an oddly nervous haste in his manner . 
And YOU won't mind , now that you'll have Miss Holbrook . 
I want to speak to Larson . 
I saw him in the field out there a minute ago . 
And I guess I'll slip right through this window here , too , David . 
I don't want to lose him and I can catch him quicker this way than any other , he finished , throwing up the sash . 
Oh , but Mr. Jack , please just wait a minute , begged David . 
Almost at once , then , Miss Holbrook appeared at the bedroom door . 
Mrs. Holly said I was to walk right in , David , so here I am , she began , in a cheery voice . 
Oh , has Mr. Jack been to see you to day ? There was an indefinable change in Miss Holbrook's voice . 
Why , he was here when you were driving into the yard . 
Miss Holbrook gave a perceptible start and looked about her a little wildly . 
Here when But I didn't meet him anywhere in the hall . 
He didn't go through the hall , laughed David gleefully . 
He went right through that window there . 
The window ! An angry flush mounted to Miss Holbrook's forehead . 
Indeed , did he have to resort to that to escape She bit her lip and stopped abruptly . 
David's eyes widened a little . 
Escape ? Oh , HE wasn't the one that was escaping . 
Mr. Jack was afraid he'd lose him . 
He saw him out the window there , right after he'd seen you , and he said he wanted to speak to him and he was afraid he'd get away . 
So he jumped right through that window there . 
See ? Oh , yes , I see , murmured Miss Holbrook , in a voice David thought was a little queer . 
I wanted him to stay , frowned David uncertainly . 
I wanted him to see you . 
Dear me , David , I hope you didn't tell him so . 
Oh , yes , I did . 
But he couldn't stay , even then . 
You see , he wanted to catch Perry Larson . 
I've no doubt of it , retorted Miss Holbrook , with so much emphasis that David again looked at her with a slightly disturbed frown . 
But he'll come again soon , I'm sure , and then maybe you'll be here , too . 
I do so want him to see you , Lady of the Roses ! Nonsense , David ! laughed Miss Holbrook alittle nervously . 
Mr. Mr. Gurnsey doesn't want to see me . 
He's seen me dozens of times . 
Oh , yes , he told me he'd seen you long ago , nodded David gravely but he didn't act as if he remembered it much . 
Didn't he , indeed ! laughed Miss Holbrook , again flushing a little . 
Well , I'm sure , dear , we wouldn't want to tax the poor gentleman's memory too much , you know . 
Come , suppose you see what I've brought you , she finished gayly . 
It's a jig saw puzzle , David . 
All these little pieces fitted together make a picture , you see . 
I tried last night and I could n't do it . 
I brought it down to see if you could . 
Oh , thank you ! I'd love to , rejoiced the boy . 
And in the fascination of the marvel of finding one fantastic bit that fitted another , David apparently forgot all about Mr. Jack which seemed not unpleasing to his Lady of the Roses . 
It was not until nearly a week later that David had his wish of seeing his Mr. Jack and his Lady of the Roses meet at his bedside . 
It was the day Miss Holbrook brought to him the wonderful set of handsomely bound Waverley Novels . 
He was still glorying in his new possession , in fact , when Mr. Jack appeared suddenly in the doorway . 
Hullo my boy , I just Oh , I beg your pardon . 
I supposed you were alone , he stammered , looking very red indeed . 
He is that is , he will be , soon except for you , Mr. Gurnsey , smiled Miss Holbrook , very brightly . 
She was already on her feet . 
No , no , I beg of you , stammered Mr. Jack , growing still more red . 
Don't let me drive that is , I mean , don't go , please . 
I had no warning I didn't see Your carriage was not at the door to day . 
Miss Holbrook's eyebrows rose the fraction of an inch . 
I am planning to walk back . 
I have several calls to make on the way and it's high time I was starting . 
But , Lady , of the Roses , please , please , don't go , besought David , who had been looking from one to the other in worried dismay . 
Why , you've just come ! But neither coaxing nor argument availed and before David really knew just what had happened , he found himself alone with Mr. Jack . 
Even then disappointment was piled on disappointment , for Mr. Jack's visit was not the unalloyed happiness it usually was . 
Mr. Jack himself was almost cross at first , and then he was silent and restless , moving jerkily about the room in a way that disturbed David very much . 
Certainly it was not a satisfactory visit at all , and for the first time David was almost glad to have Mr. Jack go and leave him with his books . 
The BOOKS , David told himself , he could understand Mr. Jack he could not to day . 
Several times after this David's Lady of the Roses and Mr. Jack happened to call at the same hour but never could David persuade these two friends of his to stay together . 
Tractable as they were in all other ways , anxious as they seemed to please him , on this one point they were obdurate never would they stay together . 
But why this was so David could not understand . 
My , but I don't see how every one can be so good to me ! exclaimed the boy , one day , to his Lady of the Roses . 
Oh , that's easy , David , she smiled . 
The only trouble is to find out what you want you ask for so little . 
But I don't need to ask you do it all beforehand , asserted the , boy . 
you and Mr. Jack , and everybody . 
No , he doesn't tell me any more like that , and and I don't want him to , either . 
Miss Holbrook laughed a little oddly . 
Why , David , what is the matter with that ? she queried . 
The ending it wasn't nice , you know . 
Oh , yes , I I remember . 
I've asked him to change it , went on David , in a grieved voice . 
I asked him just the other day , but he wouldn't . 
Perhaps he he didn't want to . 
Miss Holbrook spoke very quickly , but so low that David barely heard the words . 
Didn't want to ? Oh , yes , he did ! He looked awful sober , and as if he really cared , you know . 
And he said he'd give all he had in the world if he really could change it , but he couldn't . 
Did he say just that ? Miss Holbrook was leaning forward a little breathlessly now . 
Yes just that and that's the part I couldn't understand , commented David . 
For I don't see why a story just a story made up out of somebody's head can't be changed any way you want it . 
And I told him so . 
Well , and what did he say to that ? He didn't say anything for a minute , and I had to ask him again . 
Lady of the Roses , what is a logical ending ? The Lady of the Roses laughed unexpectedly . 
The two little red spots , that David always loved to see , flamed into her cheeks , and her eyes showed a sudden sparkle . 
When she answered , her words came disconnectedly , with little laughing breaths between . 
Well , David , I I'm not sure I can tell you . 
But perhaps I can find out . 
It was November , and the garden was bleak and cold but in the library a bright fire danced on the hearth , and before this Miss Holbrook drew up two low chairs . 
She looked particularly pretty , David thought . 
The rich red of her dress had apparently brought out an answering red in her cheeks . 
Her eyes were very bright and her lips smiled yet she seemed oddly nervous and restless . 
She sewed a little , with a bit of yellow silk on white but not for long . 
She knitted with two long ivory needles flashing in and out of a silky mesh of blue but this , too , she soon ceased doing . 
On a low stand at David's side she had placed books and pictures , and for a time she talked of those . 
Then very abruptly she asked David , when will you see Mr. Jack again do you suppose ? Tomorrow . 
I'm going up to the House that Jack Built to tea , and I'm to stay all night . 
It's Halloween that is , it isn't really Halloween , because it's too late . 
I lost that , being sick , you know . 
So we're going to pretend , and Mr. Jack is going to show me what it is like . 
That is what Mr. Jack and Jill always do when something ails the real thing , they just pretend with the make believe one . 
He's planned lots of things for Jill and me to do with nuts and apples and candles , you know . 
so I'll see him then . 
To morrow ? So so soon ? faltered Miss Holbrook . 
And to David , gazing at her with wondering eyes , it seemed for a moment almost as if she were looking about for a place to which she might run and hide . 
I've something I want you to say to Mr. Jack , and I want you to be sure and get it just right . 
It's about the the story , 'The Princess and the Pauper , you know . 
You can remember , I think , for you remembered that so well . 
It's about the the ending , stammered Miss Holbrook . 
That is , it may it may have something to do with the ending perhaps , she finished lamely . 
And again David noticed that odd shifting of Miss Holbrook's gaze as if she were searching for some means of escape . 
Then , as before , he saw her chin lift determinedly , as she began to talk faster than ever . 
Now , listen , she admonished him , earnestly . 
CHAPTER XXIV A STORY REMODELED The pretended Halloween was a great suceess . 
Oh , Mr. Jack , I forgot , he cried then . 
There was something I was going to tell you . 
Never mind to night , David it's so late . 
Suppose we leave it until to morrow , suggested Mr. Jack , still with the lamp extended in his hand . 
But I promised the Lady of the Roses that I'd say it to night , demurred the boy , in a troubled voice . 
The man drew his lamp halfway back suddenly . 
The Lady of the Roses ! Do you mean she sent a message to ME ? he demanded . 
Yes about the story , 'The Princess and the Pauper , you know . 
With an abrupt exclamation Mr. Jack set the lamp on the table and turned to a chair . 
He had apparently lost his haste to go to bed . 
See here , David , suppose you come and sit down , and tell me just what you're talking about . 
I told it to her . 
You told it to her ! Mr. Jack relaxed in his chair . 
And she was just as interested as could be . 
I don't doubt it ! Mr. Jack's lips snapped together a little grimly . 
Only she didn't like the ending , either . 
Mr. Jack sat up suddenly . 
She didn't like David , are you sure ? Did she SAY that ? David frowned in thought . 
Still David paused in yet deeper thought . 
Come to think of it , there really isn't anything not in what she said that CHANGED that ending , as I can see . 
They didn't get married and live happy ever after , anyhow . 
Yes , but what did she say ? asked Mr. Jack in a voice that was not quite steady . 
Now , be careful , David , and tell it just as she said it . 
Oh , I will , nodded David . 
SHE said to do that , too . 
Did she ? Mr. Jack leaned farther forward in his chair . 
But tell me , how did she happen to to say anything about it ? Suppose you begin at the beginning away back , David . 
I want to hear it all all ! David gave a contented sigh , and settled himself more comfortably . 
Then the other day something came up I've forgotten how about the ending , and I told her how hard I'd tried to have you change it , but you wouldn't . 
And she spoke right up quick and said probably you didn't want to change it , anyhow . 
But of course I settled THAT question without any trouble , went on David confidently , by just telling her how you said you'd give anything in the world to change it . 
And you told her that just that , David ? cried the man . 
Why , yes , I had to , answered David , in surprise , else she wouldn't have known that you DID want to change it . 
Don't you see ? Oh , yes ! I see a good deal that I'm thinking you don't , muttered Mr. Jack , fallig back in his chair . 
David , did she say that really ? Mr. Jack was on his feet now . 
She didn't ever say anything about that except that little bit I told you of a minute ago . 
Yes , yes , but what did she say ? demanded Mr. Jack , stopping short in his walk up and down the room . 
She said 'You tell Mr. Jack that I know something about that story of his that perhaps he doesn't . 
In the first place , I know the Princess a lot better than he does , and she isn't a bit the kind of girl he's pictured her . 
But she hadn't waved that Princess hadn't waved once ! argued Mr. Jack and he looked and looked for it . 
Yes , SHE spoke of that , returned David . 
Yes , she did , repeated David , with a little virtuous uplifting of his chin . 
It was plain to be seen that David's sympathies had unaccountably met with a change of heart . 
But the Pauper Oh , yes , and that's another thing , interrupted David . 
The Lady of the Roses said that she didn't like that name one bit that it wasn't true , anyway , because he wasn't a pauper . 
And she said , too , that as for his picturing the Princess as being perfectly happy in all that magnificence , he didn't get it right at all . 
For SHE knew that the Princess wasn't one bit happy , because she was so lonesome for things and people she had known when she was just the girl . 
Again Mr. Jack sprang to his feet . 
This is the Lady of the Roses' story SHE made it up only she talked it as if 't was real , of course , just as you did . 
She said another thing , too . 
And what did she mean by that , Mr. Jack ? I don't know I don't know , David , half groaned Mr. Jack . 
Sometimes I think she means and then I think that can't be true . 
But do you think it's helped it any the story ? persisted the boy . 
She's only talked a little about the Princess . 
She didn't really change things any not the ending . 
But she said it might , David she said it might ! Don't you remember ? cried the man eagerly . 
And to David , his eagerness did not seem at all strange . 
Mr. Jack had said before long ago that he would be very glad indeed to have a happier ending to this tale . 
Think now , continued the man . 
Perhaps she said something else , too . 
Did she say anything else , David ? David shook his head slowly . 
No , only yes , there was a little something , but it doesn't CHANGE things any , for it was only a 'supposing . 
Neither did David , the next morning , know that long before eight o'clock Mr. Jack stood at a certain window , his eyes unswervingly fixed on the gray towers of Sunnycrest . 
Why , whatever in the world ails Jack ? gasped Jill . 
Then , after a startled pause , she asked . 
David , do folks ever go crazy for joy ? Yesterday , you see , Jack got two splendid pieces of news . 
One was from his doctor . 
He was examined , and he's fine , the doctor says all well , so he can go back , now any time , to the city and work . 
I shall go to school then , you know , a young ladies' school , she finished , a little importantly . 
He was with a firm of big lawyers , you know , and of course it is nice to have a place all waiting . 
But I can't see anything in those things to make him act like this , now . 
Can you ? Why , yes , maybe , declared David . 
He's found his work don't you see ? out in the world , and he's going to do it . 
CHAPTER XXV THE BEAUTIFUL WORLD David found many new songs in his violin those early winter days , and they were very beautiful ones . 
To begin with , there were all the kindly looks and deeds that were showered upon him from every side . 
There was the first snowstorm , too , with the feathery flakes turning all the world to fairy whiteness . 
This song David played to Mr. Streeter , one day , and great was his disappointment that the man could not seem to understand what the song said . 
But don't you see ? pleaded David . 
I'm telling you that it's your pear tree blossoms come back to say how glad they are that you didn't kill them that day . 
Pear tree blossoms come back ! ejaculated the old man . 
Well , no , I can't see . 
Where's yer pear tree blossoms ? Why , there out of the window everywhere , urged the boy . 
Well , by ginger ! exclaimed the man again . 
Then , suddenly , he threw back his head with a hearty laugh . 
So very surprised , indeed , was David at this , that even his violin was mute , and had nothing , at first , to say about it . 
But to Mr. Jack , as man to man , David said one day I thought men , when they married women , went courting . 
In story books they do . 
And you you hardly ever said a word to my beautiful Lady of the Roses and you spoke once long ago as if you scarcely remembered her at all . 
Downstairs in the kitchen , Simeon Holly stood , with the letter in his hand . 
Ellen , we've got a letter from John , he said . 
That Simeon Holly spoke of it at all showed how very far along HIS unfamiliar way he had come since the last letter from John had arrived . 
From John ? Oh , Simeon ! From John ? Yes . 
Simeon sat down and tried to hide the shaking of his hand as he ran the point of his knife under the flap of the envelope . 
We'll see what he says . 
And to hear him , one might have thought that letters from John were everyday occurrences . 
DEAR FATHER Twice before I have written ran the letter , and received no answer . 
But I'm going to make one more effort for forgiveness . 
May I not come to you this Christmas ? I have a little boy of my own now , and my heart aches for you . 
I know how I should feel , should he , in years to come , do as I did . 
I'll not deceive you I have not given up my art . 
You told me once to choose between you and it and I chose , I suppose at least , I ran away . 
Yet in the face of all that , I ask you again , may I not come to you at Christmas ? I want you , father , and I want mother . 
And I want you to see my boy . 
Well ? said Simeon Holly , trying to speak with a steady coldness that would not show how deeply moved he was . 
Well , Ellen ? Yes , Simeon , yes ! choked his wife , a world of mother love and longing in her pleading eyes and voice . 
It was the voice of a little curly headed boy out of the past . 
When David stopped playing some time later , only the woman sat watching him the man was over at his desk , pen in hand . 
John , John's wife , and John's boy came the day before Christmas , and great was the excitement in the Holly farmhouse . 
Mrs. John , according to Perry Larson , was the slickest little woman goin' . 
According to John's mother , she was an almost unbelievable incarnation of a long dreamed of , long despaired of daughter sweet , lovable , and charmingly beautiful . 
John Holly had been at his old home less than four hours when he chanced upon David's violin . 
He was with his father and mother at the time . 
There was no one else in the room . 
With a sidelong glance at his parents , he picked up the instrument John Holly had not forgotten his own youth . 
His violin playing in the old days had not been welcome , he remembered . 
A fiddle ! Who plays ? he asked . 
You say you took him in ? By the way , what an odd little shaver he is ! Never did I see a BOY like HIM . 
Simeon Holly's head came up almost aggressively . 
David is a good boy a very good boy , indeed , John . 
We think a great deal of him . 
John Holly laughed lightly , yet his brow carried a puzzled frown . 
Hm m , he murmured , softly picking the strings , then drawing across them a tentative bow . 
I've a fiddle at home that I play sometimes . 
Do you mind if I tune her up ? A flicker of something that was very near to humor flashed from his father's eyes . 
We are used to that now . 
And again John Holly remembered his youth . 
Jove ! but he's got the dandy instrument here , cried the player , dropping his bow after the first half dozen superbly vibrant tones , and carrying the violin to the window . 
A moment later he gave an amazed ejaculation and turned on his father a dumfounded face . 
He had it when he came here , anyway . 
He turned to see David himself in the doorway . 
Come in , David , said Simeon Holly quietly . 
My son wants to hear you play . 
I don't think he has heard you . 
And again there flashed from Simeon Holly's eyes a something very much like humor . 
With obvious hesitation John Holly relinquished the violin . 
From the expression on his face it was plain to be seen the sort of torture he deemed was before him . 
But , as if constrained to ask the question , he did say Where did you get this violin , boy ? I don't know . 
We've always had it , ever since I could remember this and the other one . 
The OTHER one ! Father's . 
Oh ! He hesitated then , a little severely , he observed This is a fine instrument , boy , a very fine instrument . 
Yes , nodded David , with a cheerful smile . 
I like it , too . 
This is an Amati , but the other is a Stradivarius . 
I don't know which I do like best , sometimes , only this is mine . 
With a half smothered ejaculation John Holly fell back limply . 
Then you do know ? he challenged . 
Know what ? The value of that violin in your hands . 
The boy's eyes were questioning . 
The worth , I mean , what it's worth . 
Why , no yes that is , it's worth everything to me , answered David , in a puzzled voice . 
With an impatient gesture John Holly brushed this aside . 
But the other one where is that ? At Joe Glaspell's . 
I gave it to him to play on , because he had n't any , and he liked to play so well . 
You GAVE it to him a Stradivarius ! I loaned it to him , corrected David , in a troubled voice . 
Being father's , I couldn't bear to give it away . 
But Joe Joe had to have something to play on . 
'Something to play on' ! Father , he doesn't mean the River Street Glaspells ? cried John Holly . 
Joe is old Peleg Glaspell's grandson . 
John Holly threw up both his hands . 
A Stradivarius to old Peleg's grandson ! Oh , ye gods ! he muttered . 
Well , I'll be He did not finish his sentence . 
At another word from Simeon Holly , David had begun to play . 
From his seat by the stove Simeon Holly watched his son's face and smiled . 
He saw amazement , unbelief , and delight struggle for the mastery but before the playing had ceased , he was summoned by Perry Larson to the kitchen on a matter of business . 
So it was into the kitchen that John Holly burst a little later , eyes and cheek aflame . 
Father , where in Heaven's name DID you get that boy ? he demanded . 
He brought forward the letter , too , with its mysterious signature . 
Perhaps you can make it out , son , he laughed . 
None of the rest of us can , though I haven't shown it to anybody now for a long time . 
I got discouraged long ago of anybody's ever making it out . 
Make it out make it out ! cried John Holly excitedly I should say I could ! It's a name known the world over . 
It's the name of one of the greatest violinists that ever lived . 
But how what how came he in my barn ? demanded Simeon Holly . 
Easily guessed , from the letter , and from what the world knows , returned John , his voice still shaking with excitement . 
He was always a queer chap , they say , and full of his notions . 
Six or eight years ago his wife died . 
They say he worshiped her , and for weeks refused even to touch his violin . 
Then , very suddenly , he , with his four year old son , disappeared dropped quite out of sight . 
Some people guessed the reason . 
I knew a man who was well acquainted with him , and at the time of the disappearance he told me quite a lot about him . 
He said he was n't a bit surprised at what had happened . 
He did , he thought , laughed the other . 
He signed his name , and he supposed that was so well known that just to mention it would be enough . 
That's why he kept it so secret while he was living on the mountain , you see , and that's why even David himself didn't know it . 
Of course , if anybody found out who he was , that ended his scheme , and he knew it . 
You see he didn't reckon on nobody's being able to READ his name ! Besides , being so ill , he probably wasn't quite sane , anyway . 
I see , I see , nodded Simeon Holly , frowning a little . 
And of course if we had made it out , some of us here would have known it , probably . 
Now that you call it to mind I think I have heard it myself in days gone by though such names mean little to me . 
But doubtless somebody would have known . 
However , that is all past and gone now . 
Oh , yes , and no harm done . 
He fell into good hands , luckily . 
You'll soon see the last of him now , of course . 
Last of him ? Oh , no , I shall keep David , said Simeon Holly , with decision . 
Keep him ! Why , father , you forget who he is ! There are friends , relatives , an adoring public , and a mint of money awaiting that boy . 
You could never have kept him this long if this little town of yours hadn't been buried in this forgotten valley up among these hills . 
You'll have the whole world at your doors the minute they find out he is here hills or no hills ! Besides , there are his people they have some claim . 
With a suddenly old , drawn look on his face , the elder man had turned away . 
David was amazed , but overjoyed . 
But the going away the marvelous going away filled him with excited wonder . 
You mean , I shall go away and study practice learn more of my violin ? Yes , David . 
And hear beautiful music like the organ in church , only more bigger better ? I suppose so . 
Why , it's my 'start' just what I was going to have with the gold pieces , cried David joyously . 
Then , uttering a sharp cry of consternation , he clapped his fingers to his lips . 
Your what ? asked the man . 
N nothing , really , Mr. Holly , Uncle Simeon , n nothing . 
Something , either the boy's agitation , or the luckless mention of the gold pieces sent a sudden dismayed suspicion into Simeon Holly's eyes . 
Your 'start' ? the 'gold pieces' ? David , what do you mean ? David shook his head . 
He did not intend to tell . 
But gently , persistently , Simeon Holly questioned until the whole piteous little tale lay bare before him the hopes , the house of dreams , the sacrifice . 
David saw then what it means when a strong man is shaken by an emotion that has mastered him and the sight awed and frightened the boy . 
Mr. Holly , is it because I'm going that you care so much ? I never thought or supposed you'd CARE , he faltered . 
Simeon Holly's eyes were turned quite away . 
Uncle Simeon PLEASE ! I I think I don't want to go , anyway . 
I I'm sure I don't want to go and leave YOU ! Simeon Holly turned then , and spoke . 
Go ? Of course you'll go , David . 
Do you think I'd tie you here to me NOW ? he choked . 
What don't I owe to you home , son , happiness ! Go ? of course you'll go . 
I wonder if you really think I'd let you stay ! Come , we'll go down to mother and tell her . 
The friends , the relatives , the adoring public , the mint of money they are all David's now . 
But once each year , man grown though he is , he picks up his violin and journeys to a little village far up among the hills . 
