Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com A KNIGHT OF THE CUMBERLAND BY JOHN FOX , JR . 
CONTENTS I. The Blight in the Hills II . 
On the Wild Dog's Trail III . 
The Auricular Talent of the Hon . 
Close Quarters V. Back to the Hills VI . 
At Last The Tournament VIII . 
On the gray horse , I led the tortuous way . 
This had been a pet dream of the Blight's for a long time , and now the dream was coming true . 
The Blight was in the hills . 
Nobody ever went to her mother's house without asking to see her even when she was a little thing with black hair , merry face and black eyes . 
Both men and women , with children of their own , have told me that she was , perhaps , the most fascinating child that ever lived . 
There be some who claim that she has never changed and I am among them . 
She began early , regardless of age , sex or previous condition of servitude she continues recklessly as she began and none makes complaint . 
Thus was it in her own world thus it was when she came to mine . 
On the way down from the North , the conductor's voice changed from a command to a request when he asked for her ticket . 
From this little town to The Gap'' is the worst sixty mile ride , perhaps , in the world . 
Now we have a volunteer police guard some forty strong at the Gap and from habit , I started for him , but the Blight caught my arm tight . 
Then the engineer caught sight of the Blight's bewildered face , flushed , gripped his hands in front of him and simply stared . 
I introduced the boy and the Blight then , and for the first time in my life I saw the Blight shaken . 
Round eyed , she merely gazed at him . 
That was pretty well done , '' I said . 
Oh , he was drunk and I knew he would be slow . 
'' Now something curious happened . 
The dazed prisoner was on his feet , and his captors were starting with him to the calaboose when he seemed suddenly to come to his senses . 
Jes wait a minute , will ye ? '' he said quietly , and his captors , thinking perhaps that he wanted to say something to me , stopped . 
The mountain youth turned a strangely sobered face and fixed his blue eyes on the engineer as though he were searing every feature of that imperturbable young man in his brain forever . 
It was not a bad face , but the avenging hatred in it was fearful . 
Then he , too , saw the Blight , his face calmed magically and he , too , stared at her , and turned away with an oath checked at his lips . 
We went on the Blight thrilled , for she had heard much of our volunteer force at the Gap and had seen something already . 
Whereat I did not wonder particularly as to the engineer . 
He had been in the mountains for a long time and I knew what this vision from home meant to him . 
He turned up at the house quite early that night . 
I'm not on duty until eleven , '' he said hesitantly , and I thought I'd '' Come right in . 
'' I asked him a few questions about business and then I left him and the Blight alone . 
When I came back she had a Gatling gun of eager questions ranged on him and happy withal he was squirming no little . 
I followed him to the gate . 
Are you really going over into those God forsaken mountains ? '' he asked . 
'' And you are going to take HER ? '' And my sister . 
'' Oh , I beg your pardon . 
Coming up by the mines ? '' he called back . 
I LIKE a man , '' said the Blight . 
'' Of course the Blight must see everything , so she insisted on going to the police court next morning for the trial of the mountain boy . 
The boy was in the witness chair when we got there , and the Hon . 
Samuel Budd was his counsel . 
He had volunteered to defend the prisoner , I was soon told , and then I understood . 
The November election was not far off and the Hon . 
Samuel Budd was candidate for legislature . 
More even , the boy's father was a warm supporter of Mr. Budd and the boy himself might perhaps render good service in the cause when the time came as indeed he did . 
On one of the front chairs sat the young engineer and it was a question whether he or the prisoner saw the Blight's black plumes first . 
The eyes of both flashed toward her simultaneously , the engineer colored perceptibly and the mountain boy stopped short in speech and his pallid face flushed with unmistakable shame . 
'' Have you ever been drunk before ? '' asked the prosecuting attorney severely . 
Co'se I have , but I ain't goin' to agin leastwise not in this here town . 
'' There was a general laugh at this and the aged mayor rapped loudly . 
That will do , '' said the attorney . 
Samuel Budd arose and the Blight looked at him with wonder . 
He caressed his chin ruminatingly and rolled his lips until they settled into a fine resultant of wisdom , patience , toleration and firmness . 
His manner was profound and his voice oily and soothing . 
May it please your Honor my young friend frankly pleads guilty . 
'' He paused as though the majesty of the law could ask no more . 
He is a young man of naturally high and somewhat naturally , too , no doubt bibulous spirits . 
Homoepathically if inversely the result was logical . 
At the same time , he knew not the conditions here , he became exhilarated without malice , prepensey or even , I may say , consciousness . 
He would not have done as he has , if he had known what he knows now , and , knowing , he will not repeat the offence . 
I need say no more . 
I plead simply that your Honor will temper the justice that is only yours with the mercy that is yours only . 
The Blight's black eyes leaped with exultant appreciation and the engineer turned crimson . 
His Honor rolled his quid around in his mouth once , and peered over his glasses I fine this young feller two dollars and costs . 
'' The young fellow had turned slowly in his chair and his blue eyes blazed at the engineer with unappeasable hatred . 
I doubt if he had heard his Honor's voice . 
'' Ten dollars fer contempt of couht . 
'' The boy was hot now . 
Oh , fine and be '' The Hon . 
Samuel Budd had him by the shoulder , the boy swallowed his voice and his starting tears of rage , and after a whisper to his Honor , the Hon . 
Samuel Budd , who stopped and waved him toward the mountains . 
The boy went on and across the plateau , the gray Gap swallowed him . 
That night , at the post office , the Hon . 
Sam plucked me aside by the sleeve . 
I know Marston is agin me in this race but I'll do him a good turn just the same . 
You tell him to watch out for that young fellow . 
He's all right when he's sober , but when he's drunk well , over in Kentucky , they call him the Wild Dog . 
'' Several days later we started out through that same Gap . 
The beast gave an appreciative flop of one ear and that was all . 
Had I done that , any further benefit to me or mine would be incorporated in the terms of an insurance policy . 
I waved at him and shook my head we would see him coming back . 
Beyond a deserted log cabin we turned up a spur of the mountain . 
Around a clump of bushes we came on a gray bearded mountaineer holding his horse by the bridle and from a covert high above two more men appeared with Winchesters . 
The Blight breathed forth an awed whisper Are they moonshiners ? '' I nodded sagely , Most likely , '' and the Blight was thrilled . 
'' Accustomed to obeying the Blight's orders , I rode ahead with eyes to the front . 
Presently , a shriek made me turn suddenly . 
Let us know if anybody comes , '' they cried . 
A mountaineer descended into sight around a loop of the path above . 
Change cars , '' I shouted . 
They changed and , passing , were grave , demure then they changed again , and thus we climbed . 
From far below us to far above us a deep curving ravine was slashed into the mountain side as by one stroke of a gigantic scimitar . 
The darkness deep down was lighted up with cool green , interfused with liquid gold . 
Russet and yellow splashed the mountain sides beyond and high up the maples were in a shaking blaze . 
The Blight's swift eyes took all in and with indrawn breath she drank it all deep down . 
An hour by sun we were near the top , which was bared of trees and turned into rich farm land covered with blue grass . 
At the edge of the steep was a cabin and a bushy bearded mountaineer , who looked like a brigand , answered my hail . 
He mought'' keep us all night , but he'd ruther not , as we could git a place to stay down the spur . 
'' Could we get down before dark ? The mountaineer lifted his eyes to where the sun was breaking the horizon of the west into streaks and splashes of yellow and crimson . 
Oh , yes , you can git thar afore dark . 
'' Now I knew that the mountaineer's idea of distance is vague but he knows how long it takes to get from one place to another . 
So we started down dropping at once into thick dark woods , and as we went looping down , the deeper was the gloom . 
That sun had suddenly severed all connection with the laws of gravity and sunk , and it was all the darker because the stars were not out . 
The path was steep and coiled downward like a wounded snake . 
In one place a tree had fallen across it , and to reach the next coil of the path below was dangerous . 
So I had the girls dismount and I led the gray horse down on his haunches . 
The mules refused to follow , which was rather unusual . 
I went back and from a safe distance in the rear I belabored them down . 
They cared neither for gray horse nor crooked path , but turned of their own devilish wills along the bushy mountain side . 
As I ran after them the gray horse started calmly on down and those two girls shrieked with laughter they knew no better . 
The horse had gone down one way , the mules up the other , and there was no health in anything . 
The girls could not go up so there was nothing to do but go down , which , hard as it was , was easier than going up . 
The path was not visible now . 
Once in a while I would stumble from it and crash through the bushes to the next coil below . 
Finally I went down , sliding one foot ahead all the time knowing that when leaves rustled under that foot I was on the point of going astray . 
Sometimes I had to light a match to make sure of the way , and thus the ridiculous descent was made with those girls in high spirits behind . 
Indeed , the darker , rockier , steeper it got , the more they shrieked from pure joy but I was anything than happy . 
I didn't know the cliffs and high rocks we might skirt and an unlucky guidance might land us in the creek bed far down . 
Fortunately on the gray horse were the saddle bags of the chattering infants who thought the whole thing a mighty lark . 
We reached the running water , struck a flock of geese and knew , in consequence , that humanity was somewhere near . 
A few turns of the creek and a beacon light shone below . 
and she wished I had a horn to wind . 
I wanted a horn'' badly enough but it was not the kind men wind . 
By and by we got a response Hello ! '' was the answer , as an opened door let out into the yard a broad band of light . 
Could we stay all night ? The voice replied that the owner would see Pap . 
'' Pap'' seemed willing , and the boy opened the gate and into the house went the Blight and the little sister . 
The Blight's eyes were brighter than usual that was the only sign she gave that she was not in her own drawing room . 
Apparently she saw nothing strange or unusual even , but there was really nothing that she did not see or hear and absorb , as few others than the Blight can . 
Straightway , the old woman knocked the ashes out of her pipe . 
I reckon you hain't had nothin' to eat , '' she said and disappeared . 
Yer snack's ready , '' said the old woman . 
The old man carried the chairs into the kitchen , and when I followed the girls were seated . 
The chairs were so low that their chins came barely over their plates , and demure and serious as they were they surely looked most comical . 
There was the usual bacon and corn bread and potatoes and sour milk , and the two girls struggled with the rude fare nobly . 
You got mighty purty black eyes , '' said the old woman to the Blight , and not to slight the little sister she added , An' you got mighty purty teeth . 
'' The Blight showed hers in a radiant smile and the old woman turned back to her . 
Oh , you've got both , '' she said and she shook her head , as though she were thinking of the damage they had done . 
It was my time now to ask questions . 
They didn't have many amusements on that creek , I discovered and no dances . 
Sometimes the boys went coon hunting and there were corn shuckings , house raisings and quilting parties . 
'' Follows pickin' '' the Blight did not miss that phrase . 
What do you foller fer a livin' ? '' the old man asked me suddenly . 
I write for a living . 
'' He thought a while . 
Well , it must be purty fine to have a good handwrite . 
'' This nearly dissolved the Blight and the little sister , but they held on heroically . 
Is there much fighting around here ? '' I asked presently . 
Not much 'cept when one young feller up the river gets to tearin' up things . 
I heerd as how he was over to the Gap last week raisin' hell . 
He comes by here on his way home . 
'' The Blight's eyes opened wide apparently we were on his trail . 
It is not wise for a member of the police guard at the Gap to show too much curiosity about the lawless ones of the hills , and I asked no questions . 
They calls him the Wild Dog over here , '' he added , and then he yawned cavernously . 
They were , however , better prepared than I had hoped for . 
They had a spare room on the porch and just outside the door , and when the old woman led the two girls to it , I followed with their saddle bags . 
The room was about seven feet by six and was windowless . 
You'd better leave your door open a little , '' I said , or you'll smother in there . 
'' Well , '' said the old woman , hit's all right to leave the door open . 
Nothin's goin' ter bother ye , but one o' my sons is out a coon huntin' and he mought come in , not knowin' you're thar . 
But you jes' holler an' he'll move on . 
'' She meant precisely what she said and saw no humor at all in such a possibility but when the door closed , I could hear those girls stifling shrieks of laughter . 
Literally , that night , I was a member of the family . 
The door was closed , the fire blazed on uncovered , the smothered talk and laughter of the two girls ceased , the coon hunter came not and the night passed in peace . 
It must have been near daybreak that I was aroused by the old man leaving the cabin and I heard voices and the sound of horses' feet outside . 
When he came back he was grinning . 
'' Who found them ? '' The Wild Dog had 'em , '' he said . 
III THE AURICULAR TALENT OF THE HON . 
SAMUEL BUDD Behind us came the Hon . 
Just when the sun was slitting the east with a long streak of fire , the Hon . 
Samuel was ambitious , Southern , and a lawyer . 
Without saying , it goes that he was also a politician . 
He really knew little about the mountaineers , even now , and he had never been among his constituents on Devil's Fork , where he was bound now . 
The campaign had so far been full of humor and full of trials not the least of which sprang from the fact that it was sorghum time . 
Everybody through the mountains was making sorghum , and every mountain child was eating molasses . 
So as each infant , at sorghum time , has a circle of green brown stickiness about his chubby lips , and as the Hon . 
Sam was averse to long sweetenin' '' even in his coffee , this particular political device just now was no small trial to the Hon . 
But in the language of one of his firmest supporters Uncle Tommie Hendricks The Hon . 
Sam done his duty , and he done it damn well . 
Let no man think this a trivial issue . 
I was saddling the mules when the cackling of geese in the creek announced the coming of the Hon . 
Samuel Budd , coming with his chin on his breast deep in thought . 
Still his eyes beamed cheerily , he lifted his slouched hat gallantly to the Blight and the little sister , and he would wait for us to jog along with him . 
I told him of our troubles , meanwhile . 
The Wild Dog had restored our mules and the Hon . 
Sam beamed He's a wonder where is he ? '' He never waited even for thanks . 
Sam beamed Ah ! just like him . 
He's gone ahead to help me . 
'' Well , how did he happen to be here ? '' I asked . 
He's everywhere , '' said the Hon . 
How did he know the mules were ours ? '' Easy . 
'' Well , why did he bring them back and then leave so mysteriously ? '' The Hon . 
Sam silently pointed a finger at the laughing Blight ahead , and I looked incredulous . 
Just the same , that's another reason I told you to warn Marston . 
He's already got it in his head that Marston is his rival . 
'' Pshaw ! '' I said for it was too ridiculous . 
All right , '' said the Hon . 
'' So we went on , the two girls leading the way and the Hon . 
Sam now telling his political troubles to me . 
Half a mile down the road , a solitary horseman stood waiting , and Mr. Budd gave a low whistle . 
One o' my rivals , '' he said , from the corner of his mouth . 
Mornin' , '' said the horseman lemme see you a minute . 
'' He made a movement to draw aside , but the Hon . 
Samuel made a counter gesture of dissent . 
This gentleman is a friend of mine , '' he said firmly , but with great courtesy , and he can hear what you have to say to me . 
Would you mind tellin' me whut pay a member of the House of Legislatur' gits a day ? '' The Hon . 
I think about two dollars and a half . 
'' An' his meals ? '' No ! '' laughed Mr. Budd . 
Well , look ee here , stranger . 
I'm a pore man an' I've got a mortgage on my farm . 
That money don't mean nothin' to you but if you'll draw out now an' I win , I'll tell ye whut I'll do . 
'' He paused as though to make sure that the sacrifice was possible . 
'' I had not the heart to smile nor did the Hon . 
Samuel so artless and simple was the man and so pathetic his appeal . 
You see you'll divide my vote , an' ef we both run , ole Josh Barton'll git it shore . 
Ef you git out o' the way , I can lick him easy . 
'' Mr. Budd's answer was kind , instructive , and uplifted . 
'' The horseman slowly collapsed while the Hon . 
Samuel was talking , and now he threw the leg back , kicked for his stirrup twice , spat once , and turned his horse's head . 
I reckon you will , stranger , '' he said sadly , with that gift o' gab o' yourn . 
'' He turned without another word or nod of good by and started back up the creek whence he had come . 
One gone , '' said the Hon . 
Samuel Budd grimly , and I swear I'm right sorry for him . 
'' And so was I. An hour later we struck the river , and another hour upstream brought us to where the contest of tongues was to come about . 
No sylvan dell in Arcady could have been lovelier than the spot . 
On both sides of the road sat and squatted the honest voters , sour looking , disgruntled a distinctly hostile crowd . 
The Blight and my little sister drew great and curious attention as they sat on a bowlder above the spring while I went with the Hon . 
Samuel Budd under the guidance of Uncle Tommie Hendricks , who introduced him right and left . 
Samuel was cheery , but he was plainly nervous . 
There were two lanky youths whose names , oddly enough , were Budd . 
As they gave him their huge paws in lifeless fashion , the Hon . 
The two young men looked exceedingly grave and Uncle Tommie panic stricken . 
Sam by the sleeve and led him aside I reckon you made a leetle mistake thar . 
Them two fellers' daddy died in the penitentiary last spring . 
Sam was on his feet . 
The man who says that is a liar , '' he said calmly , and I demand your authority for the statement . 
If you won't give it I shall hold you personally responsible , sir . 
Then I advise you to be more careful , '' cautioned the Hon . 
Feller citizens , '' said Uncle Josh , if he ain't a corporation lawyer who is this man ? Where did he come from ? I have been born and raised among you . 
Samuel could straightway have turned bald headed and sightless , he would have been a happy man . 
He looked sick with hopelessness , but Uncle Tommie Hendricks , his mentor , was vigorously whispering something in his ear , and gradually his face cleared . 
Samuel was smilingly confident when he rose . 
Who is your Uncle Josh ? '' he asked with threatening mildness . 
I know I was not born here , but , my friends , I couldn't help that . 
'' Now it seems that Uncle Josh , too , was not a native and that he had left home early in life for his State's good and for his own . 
Uncle Tommie had whispered this , and the Hon . 
Samuel raised himself high on both toes while the expectant crowd , on the verge of a roar , waited as did Uncle Joshua , with a sickly smile . 
Why did your Uncle Josh come among you ? Because he was hoop poled away from home . 
'' Then came the roar and the Hon . 
Samuel had to quell it with uplifted hand . 
And now , fellow citizens , that is just what I'm here for I'm looking for a nice mountain girl , and I'm going to have her . 
The crowd had grown somewhat hostile again , and it was after one telling period , when the Hon . 
Samuel stopped to mop his brow , that a gigantic mountaineer rose in the rear of the crowd Talk on , stranger you're talking sense . 
You've got big ears ! '' Now the Hon . 
Samuel possessed a primordial talent that is rather rare in these physically degenerate days . 
He said nothing , but stood quietly in the middle of the road . 
The eyes of the crowd on either side of the road began to bulge , the lips of all opened with wonder , and a simultaneous burst of laughter rose around the Hon . 
A dozen men sprang to their feet and rushed up to him looking at those remarkable ears , as they gravely wagged to and fro . 
That settled things , and as we left , the Hon . 
'' At the river we started upstream , and some impulse made me turn in my saddle and look back . 
All the time I had had an eye open for the young mountaineer whose interest in us seemed to be so keen . 
I couldn't be sure , but it looked like the Wild Dog . 
IV CLOSE QUARTERS Two hours up the river we struck Buck . 
Buck was sitting on the fence by the roadside , barefooted and hatless . 
How dye do ? '' I said . 
Purty well , '' said Buck . 
Any fish in this river ? '' Several , '' said Buck . 
Now in mountain speech , several'' means simply a good many . 
'' Any minnows in these branches ? '' I seed several in the branch back o' our house . 
'' How far away do you live ? '' Oh , 'bout one whoop an' a holler . 
'' If he had spoken Greek the Blight could not have been more puzzled . 
He meant he lived as far as a man's voice would carry with one yell and a holla . 
Will you help me catch some ? '' Buck nodded . 
All right , '' I said , turning my horse up to the fence . 
'' The horse shied his hind quarters away , and I pulled him back . 
Now , you can get on , if you'll be quick . 
Yes , '' he said imperturbably but I ain't quick . 
'' The two girls laughed aloud , and Buck looked surprised . 
Around a curving cornfield we went , and through a meadow which Buck said was a nigh cut . 
'' From the limb of a tree that we passed hung a piece of wire with an iron ring swinging at its upturned end . 
A little farther was another tree and another ring , and farther on another and another . 
For heaven's sake , Buck , what are these things ? '' Mart's a gittin' ready fer a tourneyment . 
'' A what ? '' That's whut Mart calls hit . 
He come back an' he says he's a goin' to win that ar tourneyment next Fourth o' July . 
Dave's mighty good hisself , but he ain't nowhar 'longside o' Mart . 
I had told the Blight about our Fourth of July , and how on the Virginia side the ancient custom of the tournament still survived . 
It was on the last Fourth of July that she had meant to come to the Gap . 
Truly civilization was spreading throughout the hills . 
Who's Mart ? '' Mart's my brother , '' said little Buck . 
What about ? '' Oh , nothin' , '' said Buck carelessly only he's been quar ever since . 
My sisters says he's got a gal over thar , an' he's a pickin' off these rings more'n ever now . 
He's going to win or bust a belly band . 
'' Well , who's Dave Branham ? '' Buck grinned . 
You jes axe my sister Mollie . 
'' Before us was a white framed house of logs in the porch of which stood two stalwart , good looking girls . 
Could we stay all night ? We could there was no hesitation and straight in we rode . 
Buck helped me to unhitch the mules , helped me also to catch minnows , and in half an hour we started down the river to try fishing before dark came . 
Have you got a wagon , Buck ? '' What fer ? '' To bring the fish back . 
'' Buck was not to be caught napping . 
We got that sled thar , but hit won't be big enough , '' he said gravely . 
An' our two hoss wagon's out in the cornfield . 
We'll have to string the fish , leave 'em in the river and go fer 'em in the mornin' . 
'' All right , Buck . 
'' The Blight was greatly amused at Buck . 
Two hundred yards down the road stood his sisters over the figure of a man outstretched in the road . 
Unashamed , they smiled at us . 
The man in the road was pap'' tight and they were trying to get him home . 
We cast into a dark pool farther down and fished most patiently not a bite not a nibble . 
Are there any fish in here , Buck ? '' Dunno used ter be . 
'' The shadows deepened we must go back to the house . 
Is there a dam below here , Buck ? '' Yes , thar's a dam about a half mile down the river . 
No wonder there were no bass in that pool . 
Why didn't you tell me that before ? '' You never axed me , '' said Buck placidly . 
I began winding in my line . 
Ain't no bottom to that pool , '' said Buck . 
Now I never saw any rural community where there was not a bottomless pool , and I suddenly determined to shake one tradition in at least one community . 
So I took an extra fish line , tied a stone to it , and climbed into a canoe , Buck watching me , but not asking a word . 
'' Silently he got in and I pushed off to the centre . 
This the deepest part , Buck ? '' I reckon so . 
'' I dropped in the stone and the line reeled out some fifty feet and began to coil on the surface of the water . 
I guess that's on the bottom , isn't it , Buck ? '' Buck looked genuinely distressed but presently he brightened . 
Yes , '' he said , ef hit ain't on a turtle's back . 
'' Literally I threw up both hands and back we trailed fishless . 
Reckon you won't need that two hoss wagon , '' said Buck . 
No , Buck , I think not . 
'' Buck looked at the Blight and gave himself the pleasure of his first chuckle . 
A big crackling , cheerful fire awaited us . 
Through the door I could see , outstretched on a bed in the next room , the limp figure of pap'' in alcoholic sleep . 
The old mother , big , kind faced , explained and there was a heaven of kindness and charity in her drawling voice . 
No , pap' didn't git that a way often , and he'd be all right jes' as soon as he slept it off a while . 
'' The old woman moved about with a cane and the sympathetic Blight merely looked a question at her . 
Did many people stop there ? Oh , yes , sometimes fifteen at a time they never turned nobody away . 
I beg your pardon , '' said the wondering Blight , but she knew that phrase wouldn't do , so she added politely What did you say ? '' Fitified Tom has fits . 
He's in a asylum in the settlements . 
'' Do you work pretty hard ? '' I asked presently . 
Then a story came that was full of unconscious pathos , because there was no hint of complaint simply a plain statement of daily life . 
They got up before the men , in order to get breakfast ready then they went with the men into the fields those two girls and worked like men . 
At dark they got supper ready , and after the men went to bed they worked on washing dishes and clearing up the kitchen . 
'' No wonder poor Tom had to go back to the asylum . 
Their hard life seemed to have hurt them none for both were the pictures of health whatever that phrase means . 
After supper pap'' came in , perfectly sober , with a big ruddy face , giant frame , and twinkling gray eyes . 
He was the man who had risen to speak his faith in the Hon . 
Samuel Budd that day on the size of the Hon . 
He , too , was unashamed and , as he explained his plight again , he did it with little apology . 
I seed ye at the speakin' to day . 
That man Budd is a good man . 
He done somethin' fer a boy o' mine over at the Gap . 
'' Like little Buck , he , too , stopped short . 
He's a good man an' I'm a goin' to help him . 
'' Yes , he repeated , quite irrelevantly , it was hunting hogs all day with nothing to eat and only mean whiskey to drink . 
Mart had not come in yet he was workin' out'' now . 
He's the best worker in these mountains , '' said the old woman Mart works too hard . 
'' The hired man appeared and joined us at the fire . 
Bedtime came , and I whispered jokingly to the Blight I believe I'll ask that good looking one to set up' with me . 
'' Settin' up'' is what courting is called in the hills . 
The couple sit up in front of the fire after everybody else has gone to bed . 
The man puts his arm around the girl's neck and whispers then she puts her arm around his neck and whispers so that the rest may not hear . 
This I had related to the Blight , and now she withered me . 
You just do , now ! '' I turned to the girl in question , whose name was Mollie . 
Buck told me to ask you who Dave Branham was . 
'' Mollie wheeled , blushing and angry , but Buck had darted cackling out the door . 
Oh , '' I said , and I changed the subject . 
What time do you get up ? '' Oh , 'bout crack o' day . 
'' I was tired , and that was discouraging . 
Do you get up that early every morning ? '' No , '' was the quick answer a mornin' later . 
'' A morning later , Mollie got up , each morning . 
The feminine members of the family all followed them out on the porch and watched them brush their teeth , for they had never seen tooth brushes before . 
They watched them prepare for bed and I could hear much giggling and comment and many questions , all of which culminated , by and by , in a chorus of shrieking laughter . 
That climax , as I learned next morning , was over the Blight's hot water bag . 
Never had their eyes rested on an article of more wonder and humor than that water bag . 
By and by , the feminine members came back and we sat around the fire . 
Pretty soon the old man yawned . 
Well , mammy , I reckon this stranger's about ready to lay down , if you've got a place fer him . 
'' Git a light , Buck , '' said the old woman . 
Buck got a light a chimneyless , smoking oil lamp and led me into the same room where the Blight and my little sister were . 
Their heads were covered up , but the bed in the gloom of one corner was shaking with their smothered laughter . 
Buck pointed to the middle bed . 
Preparations for bed are simple in the mountains they were primitively simple for me that night . 
Being in knickerbockers , I merely took off my coat and shoes . 
Presently somebody else stepped into the room and the bed in the other corner creaked . 
Then the door opened , and the head of the old woman was thrust in . 
Mart ! '' she said coaxingly git up thar now an' climb over inter bed with that ar stranger . 
'' That was Mart at last , over in the corner . 
Mart turned , grumbled , and , to my great pleasure , swore that he wouldn't . 
The old woman waited a moment . 
Mart , '' she said again with gentle imperiousness , git up thar now , I tell ye you've got to sleep with that thar stranger . 
'' She closed the door and with a snort Mart piled into bed with me . 
I gave him plenty of room and did not introduce myself . 
A long silence and then the boy Buck slipped in . 
The hired man delivered himself with the intonation somewhat of a circuit rider . 
I've been a watchin' that star thar , through the winder . 
Sometimes hit moves , then hit stands plum' still , an' ag'in hit gits to pitchin' . 
'' The hired man must have been touching up mean whiskey himself . 
Meanwhile , Mart seemed to be having spells of troubled slumber . 
He would snore gently , accentuate said snore with a sudden quiver of his body and then wake up with a climacteric snort and start that would shake the bed . 
This was repeated several times , and I began to think of the unfortunate Tom who was fitified . 
'' Mart seemed on the verge of a fit himself , and I waited apprehensively for each snorting climax to see if fits were a family failing . 
Peace overcame Mart and he slept deeply , but not I. The hired man began to show symptoms . 
He would roll and groan , dreaming of feuds , quorum pars magna fuit , it seemed , and of religious conversion , in which he feared he was not so great . 
Twice he said aloud An' I tell you thar wouldn't a one of 'em have said a word if I'd been killed stone dead . 
The dim light at the window showed an empty bed Buck and the hired man were gone . 
Mart was slipping out of the side of my bed , but the girls still slept on . 
Mart thought I was asleep . 
But not once did Mart turn his eyes , much less his face , toward the corner where they were not once , for I watched him closely . 
And when he went out he sent his little sister back for his shoes , which the night walking hired man had accidentally kicked toward the foot of the strangers' bed . 
In a minute I was out after him , but he was gone . 
Behind me the two girls opened their eyes on a room that was empty save for them . 
Dear , '' she said , have our room mates gone ? '' Breakfast at dawn . 
The mountain girls were ready to go to work . 
All looked sorry to have us leave . 
They asked us to come back again , and they meant it . 
As we started back up the river the sisters started for the fields , and I thought of their stricken brother in the settlements , who must have been much like Mart . 
Back up the Big Black Mountain we toiled , and late in the afternoon we were on the State line that runs the crest of the Big Black . 
I was coming over to meet you , '' he said , smiling at the Blight , who , greatly pleased , smiled back at him . 
The shack was a blind Tiger'' where whiskey could be sold to Kentuckians on the Virginia side and to Virginians on the Kentucky side . 
Hanging around were the slouching figures of several moonshiners and the villainous fellow who ran it . 
They are real ones all right , '' said Marston . 
One of them killed a revenue officer at that front door last week , and was killed by the posse as he was trying to escape out of the back window . 
That house will be in ashes soon , '' he added . 
As we rode down the mountain we told him about our trip and the people with whom we had spent the night and all the time he was smiling curiously . 
Buck , '' he said . 
Oh , yes , I know that little chap . 
Mart had him posted down there on the river to toll you to his house to toll YOU , '' he added to the Blight . 
He pulled in his horse suddenly , turned and looked up toward the top of the mountain . 
Ah , I thought so . 
'' We all looked back . 
He's been following you all the way , '' said the engineer . 
Who's been following us ? '' I asked . 
That's Mart up there my friend and yours , '' said Marston to the Blight . 
I'm rather glad I didn't meet you on the other side of the mountain that's the Wild Dog . 
'' The Blight looked incredulous , but Marston knew the man and knew the horse . 
Still , when we dropped behind the two girls I gave Marston the Hon . 
Sam's warning , and for a moment he looked rather grave . 
Well , '' he said , smiling , if I'm found in the road some day , you'll know who did it . 
'' I shook my head . 
Oh , no he isn't that bad . 
'' I don't know , '' said Marston . 
The smoke of the young engineer's coke ovens lay far below us and the Blight had never seen a coke plant before . 
Humanity about was joyous , however . 
Laughter and banter and song came from the cabins that lined the big ravine and the little ravines opening into it . 
A banjo tinkled at the entrance of Possum Trot , '' sacred to the darkies . 
On the stoop sat an ecstatic picker and in the dust shuffled three pickaninnies one boy and two girls the youngest not five years old . 
I showered a few coins for the Blight and on we went into the mouth of the many peaked Gap . 
Over her shoulder I smiled at him . 
No spring had ever been like that to him . 
The coming of young leaves and flowers and bird song meant but one joy for the hills to him the Blight was coming back to them . 
All those weary waiting months he had clung grimly to his work . 
That he knew as well , for he took one paper , at least , that he might simply read her name . 
He saw accounts of her many social doings as well , and ate his heart out as lovers have done for all time gone and will do for all time to come . 
I , too , was away all winter , but I got back a month before the Blight , to learn much of interest that had come about . 
Samuel Budd had ear wagged himself into the legislature , had moved that Court House , and was going to be State Senator . 
The Wild Dog had confined his reckless career to his own hills through the winter , but when spring came , migratory like , he began to take frequent wing to the Gap . 
But then Marston had never met him when the Wild Dog was drunk and when sober , I took it that the one act of kindness from the engineer always stayed his hand . 
But the Police Guard at the Gap saw him quite often and to it he was a fearful and elusive nuisance . 
Many plans were laid to catch him , but all failed , and finally he came in one day and gave himself up and paid his fines . 
'' And the little sister , pleased with the remembrance , had said cordially that she was coming soon . 
Again he paid his fine , promptly visited a blind Tiger , '' came back to town , emptied another pistol at Marston on sight and fled for the hills . 
The enraged guard chased him for two days and from that day the Wild Dog was a marked man . 
The Guard wanted many men , but if they could have had their choice they would have picked out of the world of malefactors that same Wild Dog . 
Why all this should have thrown the Hon . 
Sam much more than the fines that , as I later learned , he had been paying for his mountain friend . 
All the way she was known and welcomed , and next morning she awoke with the keen air of the distant mountains in her nostrils and an expectant light in her happy eyes . 
Like a convent girl she babbled questions to the little sister as the dummy puffed along and she bubbled like wine over the midsummer glory of the hills . 
And she must know everything at once . 
The anniversary of the Great Day on which all men were pronounced free and equal was only ten days distant and preparations were going on . 
There would be a big crowd of mountaineers and there would be sports of all kinds , and games , but the tournament was to be the feature of the day . 
had a dark horse , '' and he had bet heavily that his dark horse would win the tournament whereat the little sister looked at Marston and at the Blight and smiled disdainfully . 
That night I learned why when she came in from the porch after Marston was gone . 
I saw she had wormed enough of the story out of him to worry her , for her face this time was distinctly pale . 
She was sure that he saw her , and his face had frightened her . 
I knew her fright was for Marston and not for herself , so I laughed at her fears . 
She was mistaken Wild Dog was an outlaw now and he would not dare appear at the Gap , and there was no chance that he could harm her or Marston . 
And yet I was uneasy . 
It must have been a happy ten days for those two young people . 
He was doing his best , Marston was , and he was having trouble as every man should . 
And I knew no man would know that he had won the Blight until he had her at the altar and the priestly hand of benediction was above her head . 
Of such kind was the Blight . 
Still I was in good hope for him , until the crisis came on the night before the Fourth . 
The quarrel was as plain as though typewritten on the face of each . 
Marston would not come in that night and the Blight went dinnerless to bed and cried herself to sleep . 
She told the little sister that she had seen the Wild Dog again peering through the bushes , and that she was frightened . 
That was her explanation but I guessed a better one . 
VI THE GREAT DAY It was a day to make glad the heart of slave or freeman . 
The earth was cool from a night long rain , and a gentle breeze fanned coolness from the north all day long . 
The clouds were snow white , tumbling , ever moving , and between them the sky showed blue and deep . 
Grass , leaf , weed and flower were in the richness that comes to the green things of the earth just before that full tide of summer whose foam is drifting thistle down . 
The air was clear and the mountains seemed to have brushed the haze from their faces and drawn nearer that they , too , might better see the doings of that day . 
From the four winds of heaven , that morning , came the brave and the free . 
It was a great day for the Hon . 
An' I reckon they've got me . 
'' I guess they have . 
'' You'd better get somebody else . 
The Wild Dog sent word he'd send over another feller , named Dave Branham , who has been practising with him , who's just as good , he says , as he is . 
I'm looking for him at twelve o'clock , an' I'm goin' to take him down an' see what he can do on that black horse o' mine . 
But if he's no good , I lose five hundred , all right , '' and he sloped away to his duties . 
For it was the Hon . 
Sam who was master of ceremonies that day . 
Pretty good , isn't he ? '' I said . 
Who ? '' she said indifferently . 
Oh , nobody , '' I said , turning to smile , but not turning quickly enough . 
What's the matter with you ? '' asked the Blight sharply . 
Nothing , nothing at all , '' I said , and straightway the Blight thought she wanted to go home . 
The thunder of the Declaration was still rumbling in the poplar grove . 
Sam Budd , '' I said . 
Don't you want to hear him ? '' I don't care who it is and I don't want to hear him and I think you are hateful . 
'' Ah , dear me , it was more serious than I thought . 
There were tears in her eyes , and I led the Blight and the little sister home conscience stricken and humbled . 
Still I would find that young jackanapes of an engineer and let him know that anybody who made the Blight unhappy must deal with me . 
I would take him by the neck and pound some sense into him . 
You just let them alone , '' she said severely . 
Let who alone ? '' I said , lapsing into the speech of childhood . 
You just let them alone , '' she repeated . 
I've already made up my mind to that . 
'' Well , then ! '' she said , with an air of satisfaction , but why I don't know . 
I went back to the poplar grove . 
The Declaration was over and the crowd was gone , but there was the Hon . 
Samuel Budd , mopping his brow with one hand , slapping his thigh with the other , and all but executing a pigeon wing on the turf . 
He turned goggles on me that literally shone triumph . 
He's come Dave Branham's come ! '' he said . 
He's better than the Wild Dog . 
That five hundred is in my clothes now . 
You see that point yonder ? Well , there's a hollow there and bushes all around . 
That's where I'm going to dress him . 
I've got his clothes all right and a name for him . 
This thing is a goin' to come off accordin' to Hoyle , Ivanhoe , Four Quarters of Beef , and all them mediaeval fellows . 
Just watch me ! '' I began to get newly interested , for that knight's name I suddenly recalled . 
The Blight was very quiet at lunch , as was the little sister , and my effort to be jocose was a lamentable failure . 
'' No curiosity and no question . 
Who did you say ? Why , Dave Branham , a friend of the Wild Dog . 
Don't you remember Buck telling us about him ? '' No answer . 
Well , I do and , by the way , I saw Buck and one of the big sisters just a while ago . 
Dave Branham , you will recall , is her sweetheart . 
The other big sister had to stay at home with her mother and little Cindy , who's sick . 
Of course , I didn't ask them about Mart the Wild Dog . 
They knew I knew and they wouldn't have liked it . 
The Wild Dog's around , I understand , but he won't dare show his face . 
Every policeman in town is on the lookout for him . 
'' I thought the Blight's face showed a signal of relief . 
I'm going to play short stop , '' I added . 
We beat them all the time at first , but now they were beginning to beat us . 
We had a league now , and this was the championship game for the pennant . 
It was right funny the first time we beat a native team . 
Of course , we got together and cheered 'em . 
They thought we were cheering ourselves , so they got red in the face , rushed together and whooped it up for themselves for about half an hour . 
'' The Blight almost laughed . 
We used to have to carry our guns around with us at first when we went to other places , and we came near having several fights . 
'' Oh ! '' said the Blight excitedly . 
Do you think there might be a fight this afternoon ? '' Don't know , '' I said , shaking my head . 
It's pretty hard for eighteen people to fight when nine of them are policemen and there are forty more around . 
Still the crowd might take a hand . 
'' This , I saw , quite thrilled the Blight and she was in good spirits when we started out . 
Marston doesn't pitch this afternoon , '' I said to the little sister . 
He's saving himself for the tournament . 
He's done too much already . 
'' The Blight merely turned her head while I was speaking . 
Sam will not act as umpire . 
He wants to save his voice and his head . 
The game was close and Marston and I assuredly were stars Marston one of the first magnitude . 
Goose egg'' on one side matched goose egg'' on the other until the end of the fifth inning , when the engineer knocked a home run . 
During these innings I had assisted'' in two doubles and had fired in three daisy cutters'' to first myself in spite of the guying I got from the opposing rooters . 
The sound of his foot on it and the runner's was almost simultaneous , but the umpire said Marston's was there first . 
Then bedlam ! One of my brothers was umpire and the captain of the other team walked threateningly out toward him , followed by two of his men with base ball bats . 
Instantly a dozen of the guard sprang toward it , some man pulled his pistol , a billy cracked straightway on his head , and in a few minutes order was restored . 
And still the brother scoring hadn't moved from his chair , and I spoke to him hotly . 
Keep your shirt on , '' he said easily , lifting his score card with his left hand and showing his right clinched about his pistol under it . 
I was just waiting for that red head to make a move . 
I guess I'd have got him first . 
'' I walked back to the Blight and the little sister and both of them looked very serious and frightened . 
I don't think I want to see a real fight , after all , '' said the Blight . 
'' It was a little singular and prophetic , but just as the words left her lips one of the Police Guard handed me a piece of paper . 
Somebody in the crowd must have dropped it in my pocket , '' he said . 
On the paper were scrawled these words Look out for the Wild Dog ! '' I sent the paper to Marston . 
VII AT LAST THE TOURNAMENT At last the tournament ! Ever afterward the Hon . 
Samuel Budd called it The Gentle and Joyous Passage of Arms not of Ashby but of the Gap , by suh ! '' The Hon . 
Samuel had arranged it as nearly after Sir Walter as possible . 
And a sudden leap it was from the most modern of games to a game most ancient . 
No knights of old ever jousted on a lovelier field than the green little valley toward which the Hon . 
Sam waved one big hand . 
Sam had seen us coming from afar apparently , had come forward to meet us , and he was in high spirits . 
'' And so saying , the Hon . 
Sam marshalled the Blight to a seat of honor next his own . 
And how do you know she is going to be the Queen of Love and Beauty ? '' asked the little sister . 
Well , this tournament lies between two gallant knights . 
One will make her the Queen of his own accord , if he wins , and if the other wins , he's got to , or I'll break his head . 
Sam looked about right and left on the people who were his that day . 
Observe the nobles and ladies , '' he said , still following Sir Walter , and waving at the towns people and visitors in the rude grandstand . 
And there is my herald'' pointing to the cornetist of the local band and wait by my halidom please just wait until you see my knight on that black charger o' mine . 
'' The Blight and the little sister were convulsed and the Hon . 
A darky starting , in all ignorance , to mount them was stopped and jostled none too good naturedly back to the ground . 
And see , '' mused the Hon . 
Sam , in lieu of the dog of an unbeliever we have a dark analogy in that son of Ham . 
'' The little sister plucked me by the sleeve and pointed toward the entrance . 
Outside and leaning on the fence were Mollie , the big sister , and little Buck . 
Straightway I got up and started for them . 
No embarrassing questions were asked about Mart or Dave Branham , but I noticed that Mollie had purple and crimson ribbons clinched in one brown hand . 
The purpose of them was plain , and I whispered to the Blight She's going to pin them on Dave's lance . 
Not on your life , '' he said emphatically . 
I ain't takin' chances , '' and he nodded toward the Blight . 
She's got to win , no matter who loses . 
'' He rose to his feet suddenly . 
The Blight stifled her laughter over that amazing music with her handkerchief , and even the Hon . 
A goodly array ! '' murmured the Hon . 
A crowd of small boys gathered at the fence below , and I observed the Hon . 
Sam's pockets bulging with peanuts . 
Largesse ! '' I suggested . 
Good ! '' he said , and rising he shouted Largessy ! largessy ! '' scattering peanuts by the handful among the scrambling urchins . 
Sam arose his truncheon a hickory stick and in a stentorian voice asked the names of the doughty knights who were there to win glory for themselves and the favor of fair women . 
He ought to be caged , '' murmured the Hon . 
Marston was the last sitting easily on his iron gray . 
And your name , Sir Knight ? '' The Discarded , '' said Marston , with steady eyes . 
I felt the Blight start at my side and sidewise I saw that her face was crimson . 
Sam sat down , muttering , for he did not like Marston Wenchless springal ! '' Just then my attention was riveted on Mollie and little Buck . 
Again Buck whispered , and from his lips I could make out what he said I wonder whar's Dave ? '' but Mollie did not answer . 
Which is yours , Mr. Budd ? '' asked the little sister . 
Sam had leaned back with his thumbs in the arm holes of his white waistcoat . 
I told him to come last . 
'' The crowd waited and the knights waited so long that the Mayor rose in his seat some twenty feet away and called out Go ahead , Budd . 
Sam began to look anxious . 
I wonder what is the matter ? '' he added in a lower tone . 
I dressed him myself more than an hour ago and I told him to come last , but I didn't mean for him to wait till Christmas ah ! '' The Hon . 
Sam sank back in his seat again . 
The new knight wore a shining helmet and the Hon . 
Sam chuckled at the murmur that rose and then he sat up suddenly . 
There was no face under that helmet the Hon . 
Sam's knight was MASKED and the Hon . 
Sam slapped his thigh with delight . 
Sam's charger , white bridled , with long mane and tail and black from tip of nose to tip of that tail as midnight . 
Sam was certainly doing it well . 
At a slow walk the stranger drew alongside of Marston and turned his spear point downward . 
Gawd ! '' said an old darky . 
Ku klux done come again . 
'' And , indeed , it looked like a Ku klux mask , white , dropping below the chin , and with eye holes through which gleamed two bright fires . 
The eyes of Buck and Mollie were turned from Marston at last , and open mouthed they stared . 
Hit's the same hoss hit's Dave ! '' said Buck aloud . 
Well , my Lord ! '' said Mollie simply . 
And who is Sir Tardy Knight that hither comes with masked face ? '' he asked courteously . 
What's your name , son ? '' The white mask puffed at the wearer's lips . 
The Knight of the Cumberland , '' was the low , muffled reply . 
Make him take that thing off ! '' shouted some one . 
What's he got it on fer ? '' shouted another . 
I don't know , friend , '' said the Hon . 
'' Now , go ahead , Budd , '' called the Mayor again . 
Are you going crazy ? '' The Hon . 
He started with one finger pointed heavenward The knights are dust And their good swords are rast Their souls are with the saints , we trust . 
Scepticism is but a harmless phantom in these mighty hills . 
For it is good to be remembered . 
The tournament , some say , goes back to the walls of Troy . 
The form of it passed with the windmills that Don Quixote charged . 
It is with you to keep the high spirit of it an ever burning vestal fire . 
It was a deadly play of old it is a harmless play to you this day . 
But the prowess of the game is unchanged for the skill to strike those pendent rings is no less than was the skill to strike armor joint , visor , or plumed crest . 
'' Perfect silence honored the Hon . 
Every knight had straightened in his saddle and was looking very grave . 
Sam sat down , visibly affected by his own eloquence slowly he wiped his face and then he rose again . 
Only the Knight of the Cumberland sat still . 
What ! '' said the Hon . 
Sam , rising to his feet , his eyes twinkling and his mask of humor on again sees this masked springal'' the Hon . 
Sam's winged words were meant for him , so the statesman translated them into a mutual vernacular . 
Remember what I told you , son , '' he said . 
Sam collapsed in his seat , muttering The fool don't know you he don't know you . 
I heered Mr. Budd thar myself tell him he HAD to pick out some other gal . 
'' You hush ! '' said Mollie indignantly . 
It looked as though the Knight of the Cumberland had grown rebellious and meant to choose whom he pleased , but on his way back the Hon . 
Sam must have given more surreptitious signs , for the Knight of the Cumberland reined in before the Blight and held up his lance to her . 
Straightway the colors that were meant for Marston fluttered from the Knight of the Cumberland's spear . 
I saw Marston bite his lips and I saw Mollie's face aflame with fury and her eyes darting lightning no longer at Marston now , but at the Blight . 
The mountain girl held nothing against the city girl because of the Wild Dog's infatuation , but that her own lover , no matter what the Hon . 
Sam said , should give his homage also to the Blight , in her own presence , was too much . 
Mollie looked around no more . 
Love of ladies , '' he shouted , splintering of lances ! Stand forth , gallant knights . 
Nearly forty yards below this was a similar ring similarly arranged and at a similar distance below that was still another , and at the blast from the Hon . 
With his hickory truncheon the Hon . 
Sam signed to his trumpeter to sound the onset . 
Now , son ! '' he said . 
His recklessness cost him one ring , but as the Discarded had lost one , they were still tied , with eight rings to the credit of each , for the first prize . 
The crowd was eager now and the Hon . 
The excitement was intense now . 
Sam was almost beside himself with excitement now and then some man with whom he had made a bet would shout jeeringly at him and the Hon . 
Sam would shout back defiance . 
But when the trumpet sounded he sat leaning forward with his brow wrinkled and his big hands clinched tight . 
Marston sped up the course first three rings and there was a chorus of applauding yells . 
His horse is gittin' tired , '' said the Hon . 
Sam jubilantly , and the Blight's face , I noticed , showed for the first time faint traces of indignation . 
Hooray ! '' shouted the Hon . 
At the next tilt the Hon . 
Did he get 'em all ? '' Yes , he got 'em all , '' mimicked the Blight . 
Yes , an' he just did make it , '' chuckled the Hon . 
The Discarded had wheeled his horse aside from the course to watch his antagonist . 
I never seed Dave ride that a way afore , '' said Mollie . 
Me , neither , '' chimed in Buck . 
The nobles and ladies were waving handkerchiefs , clapping hands , and shouting . 
The two knights rode slowly back to the head of the lists , where the Discarded was seen to dismount and tighten his girth . 
He's tryin' to git time to rest , '' said the Hon . 
Toot , son ! '' Shame ! '' said the little sister and the Blight both at once so severely that the Hon . 
Sam quickly raised his hand . 
Hold on , '' he said , and with hand still uplifted he waited till Marston was mounted again . 
Up went a roar , but the Hon . 
Sam , covertly glancing at his watch , still smiled . 
Tied tied ! '' was the shout they've got to try it again ! they've got to try it again ! '' The Hon . 
Sam rose , with his watch in one hand and stilling the tumult with the other . 
Dead silence came at once . 
I fear me , '' he said , that the good knight , the Discarded , has failed to make the course in the time required by the laws of the tournament . 
'' Bedlam broke loose again and the Hon . 
Sam waited , still gesturing for silence . 
Summon the time keeper ! '' he said . 
The time keeper appeared from the middle of the field and nodded . 
Eight seconds ! '' The Knight of the Cumberland wins , '' said the Hon . 
The little sister , unconscious of her own sad face , nudged me to look at the Blight there were tears in her eyes . 
Before the grandstand the knights slowly drew up again . 
Marston's horse was so lame and tired that he dismounted and let a darky boy lead him under the shade of the trees . 
But he stood on foot among the other knights , his arms folded , worn out and vanquished , but taking his bitter medicine like a man . 
I thought the Blight's eyes looked pityingly upon him . 
Advance , Sir Knight of the Cumberland , and dismount ! '' The Knight of the Cumberland made no move nor sound . 
Get off yo' hoss , son , '' said the Hon . 
Sam kindly , and get down on yo' knees at the feet of them steps . 
This fair young Queen is a goin' to put this chaplet on your shinin' brow . 
The Blight , blushing prettily , took the chaplet and went down the steps to meet him . 
Unmask ! '' I shouted . 
Yes , son , '' said the Hon . 
Sam , take that rag off . 
'' Then Mollie's voice , clear and loud , startled the crowd . 
Wait a minute , will ye ? '' he said almost fiercely , and at the sound of his voice Mollie rose to her feet and her face blanched . 
Lord God ! '' she said almost in anguish , and then she dropped quickly to her seat again . 
The Knight of the Cumberland had gone back to his horse as though to get something from his saddle . 
Goddle mighty ! '' shouted the Hon . 
I didn't do it , I swear I didn't know it . 
He's tricked me he's tricked me ! Don't shoot you might hit that hoss ! '' There was no doubt about the Hon . 
And there was no doubt of the innocence of Mollie and Buck as they stood , Mollie wringing her hands and Buck with open mouth and startled face . 
There was no doubt about the innocence of anybody other than Dave Branham and the dare devil Knight of the Cumberland . 
Marston had clutched at the Wild Dog's bridle and missed and the outlaw struck savagely at him with his spear . 
Marston ran to his horse at the upper end , threw his saddle on , and hesitated there were enough after the Wild Dog and his horse was blown . 
He listened to the yells and sounds of the chase encircling Poplar Hill . 
The outlaw was making for Lee . 
All at once the yells and hoof beats seemed to sound nearer and Marston listened , astonished . 
The Wild Dog had wheeled and was coming back he was going to make for the Gap , where sure safety lay . 
Marston buckled his girth and as he sprang on his horse , unconsciously taking his spear with him , the Wild Dog dashed from the trees at the far end of the field . 
The Wild Dog was an outlaw . 
It was Marston's duty to take him . 
The law does not prescribe with what weapon the lawless shall be subdued , and Marston's spear was the only weapon he had . 
Moreover , the Wild Dog's yell was a challenge that set his blood afire and the girl both loved was looking on . 
The crowd gathered the meaning of the joust the knights were crashing toward each other with spears at rest . 
There were a few surprised oaths from men , a few low cries from women , and then dead silence in which the sound of hoofs on the hard turf was like thunder . 
The Blight's face was white and the little sister was gripping my arm with both hands . 
A third horseman shot into view out of the woods at tight angles , to stop them , and it seemed that the three horses must crash together in a heap . 
With a moan the Blight buried her face on my shoulder . 
She heard the shots that were sent after him , she heard him plunge into the river , and then she saw and heard no more . 
VIII THE KNIGHT PASSES A telegram summoned the Blight a home next day . 
Marston was in bed with a ragged wound in the shoulder , and I took her to tell him good by . 
I left the room for a few minutes , and when I came back their hands were unclasping , and for a Discarded Knight the engineer surely wore a happy though pallid face . 
Across the track , farther on , lay a heavy piece of timber , and it was plain that somebody meant that , just at that place , the train must stop . 
The Blight and I were seated on the rear platform and the Blight was taking a last look at her beloved hills . 
When the train started again , there was a cracking of twigs overhead and a shower of rhododendron leaves and flowers dropped from the air at the feet of the Blight . 
, and both hands clasping the broken handle of his spear , which rested across the pommel of his saddle . 
And thus passed the Knight of the Cumberland with the last gleam that struck his helmet , spear like , from the slanting sun . 
