STEVENSON PREFACE TO THE BIOGRAPHICAL EDITION While my husband and Mr. Henley were engaged in writing plays in Bournemouth they made a number of titles , hoping to use them in the future . 
Dramatic composition was not what my husband preferred , but the torrent of Mr. Henley's enthusiasm swept him off his feet . 
My husband was always interested in this period of his country's history , and had already the intention of writing a story that should turn on the Appin murder . 
From the trial of James Stewart my husband gleaned much valuable material for his novel , the most important being the character of Alan Breck . 
Aside from having described him as smallish in stature , my husband seems to have taken Alan Breck's personal appearance , even to his clothing , from the book . 
He is a desperate foolish fellow and if he is guilty , came to the country for that very purpose . 
He is a tall , pock pitted lad , very black hair , and wore a blue coat and metal buttons , an old red vest , and breeches of the same colour . 
There are many incidents given in the trial that point to Alan's fiery spirit and Highland quickness to take offence . 
One witness declared also That the said Alan Breck threatened that he would challenge Ballieveolan and his sons to fight because of his removing the declarant last year from Glenduror . 
was almost as keen as though the tragedy had taken place the day before . 
For several years my husband received letters of expostulation or commendation from members of the Campbell and Stewart clans . 
He married Cameron Daughter to Ewen Cameron of Lochiel . 
Following this is a paragraph stating that John Stewart st of Ardsheall of his descendants Alan Breck had better be omitted . 
Duncan Baan Stewart in Achindarroch his father was a Bastard . 
One day , while my husband was busily at work , I sat beside him reading an old cookery book called The Compleat Housewife or Accomplish'd Gentlewoman's Companion . 
One of these was so charming that I interrupted my husband to read it aloud . 
Just what I wanted ! he exclaimed and the receipt for the Lily of the Valley Water was instantly incorporated into Kidnapped . 
These are nuts beyond my ability to crack . 
But if you tried me on the point of Alan's guilt or innocence , I think I could defend the reading of the text . 
To this day you will find the tradition of Appin clear in Alan's favour . 
If you inquire , you may even hear that the descendants of the other man who fired the shot are in the country to this day . 
As for you , my dear Charles , I do not even ask you to like this tale . 
I think I see you , moving there by plain daylight , beholding with your natural eyes those places that have now become for your companion a part of the scenery of dreams . 
Well , Davie , lad , said he , I will go with you as far as the ford , to set you on the way . 
And we began to walk forward in silence . 
Are ye sorry to leave Essendean ? said he , after awhile . 
Why , sir , said I , if I knew where I was going , or what was likely to become of me , I would tell you candidly . 
Essendean is a good place indeed , and I have been very happy there but then I have never been anywhere else . 
Ay ? said Mr. Campbell . 
Then it behoves me to tell your fortune or so far as I may . 
began to sicken for his end , he gave me in charge a certain letter , which he said was your inheritance . 
, 'give my boy this letter into his hand , and start him off to the house of Shaws , not far from Cramond . 
That is the place I came from , he said , 'and it's where it befits that my boy should return . 
He is a steady lad , your father said , 'and a canny goer and I doubt not he will come safe , and be well lived where he goes . 
The house of Shaws ! I cried . 
Lastly , to put all the elements of this affair before you , here is the testamentary letter itself , superscrived by the own hand of our departed brother . 
My heart was beating hard at this great prospect now suddenly opening before a lad of seventeen years of age , the son of a poor country dominie in the Forest of Ettrick . 
Mr. Campbell , I stammered , and if you were in my shoes , would you go ? Of a surety , said the minister , that would I , and without pause . 
in two days of walk . 
should put you to the door , ye can but walk the two days back again and risp at the manse door . 
That done , he drew a picture of the great house that I was bound to , and how I should conduct myself with its inhabitants . 
Be soople , Davie , in things immaterial , said he . 
Bear ye this in mind , that , though gentle born , ye have had a country rearing . 
As for the laird remember he's the laird I say no more honour to whom honour . 
It's a pleasure to obey a laird or should be , to the young . 
Well , sir , said I , it may be and I'll promise you I'll try to make it so . 
Why , very well said , replied Mr. Campbell , heartily . 
I have here a little packet which contains four things . 
He tugged it , as he spoke , and with some great difficulty , from the skirt pocket of his coat . 
in the design of re selling at a profit to the incoming dominie . 
The other three are gifties that Mrs. Campbell and myself would be blithe of your acceptance . 
And as for the last , which is cubical , that'll see you , it's my prayerful wish , into a better land . 
It might have been laughable to another but I was in no mind to laugh . 
I watched him as long as he was in sight and he never stopped hurrying , nor once looked back . 
And I sat down on the boulder the good man had just left , and opened the parcel to see the nature of my gifts . 
That which he had called cubical , I had never had much doubt of sure enough it was a little Bible , to carry in a plaid neuk . 
Take the flowers of lilly of the valley and distil them in sack , and drink a spooneful or two as there is occasion . 
It restores speech to those that have the dumb palsey . 
And then , in the minister's own hand , was added Likewise for sprains , rub it in and for the cholic , a great spooneful in the hour . 
The pride of life seemed to mount into my brain at the sight of the red coats and the hearing of that merry music . 
A little farther on , and I was told I was in Cramond parish , and began to substitute in my inquiries the name of the house of Shaws . 
It was a word that seemed to surprise those of whom I sought my way . 
He stopped his cart and looked at me , like the others . 
What for ? It's a great house ? I asked . 
The house is a big , muckle house . 
Ay , said I , but the folk that are in it ? Folk ? cried he . 
Are ye daft ? There's nae folk there to call folk . 
What ? say I not Mr. Ebenezer ? Ou , ay says the man there's the laird , to be sure , if it's him you're wanting . 
What'll like be your business , mannie ? I was led to think that I would get a situation , I said , looking as modest as I could . 
I cannot well describe the blow this dealt to my illusions . 
The more indistinct the accusations were , the less I liked them , for they left the wider field to fancy . 
The woman's face lit up with a malignant anger . 
That is the house of Shaws ! she cried . 
Blood built it blood stopped the building of it blood shall bring it down . 
I stood where she left me , with my hair on end . 
I sat me down and stared at the house of Shaws . 
Country folk went by from the fields as I sat there on the side of the ditch , but I lacked the spirit to give them a good e'en . 
So I set forward by a little faint track in the grass that led in my direction . 
It was very faint indeed to be the only way to a place of habitation yet I saw no other . 
Presently it brought me to stone uprights , with an unroofed lodge beside them , and coats of arms upon the top . 
The nearer I got to that , the drearier it appeared . 
It seemed like the one wing of a house that had never been finished . 
What should have been the inner end stood open on the upper floors , and showed against the sky with steps and stairs of uncompleted masonry . 
Many of the windows were unglazed , and bats flew in and out like doves out of a dove cote . 
Then I stood and waited . 
The house had fallen into a dead silence a whole minute passed away , and nothing stirred but the bats overhead . 
I knocked again , and hearkened again . 
It's loaded , said a voice . 
I have come here with a letter , I said , to Mr. Ebenezer Balfour of Shaws . 
Is he here ? From whom is it ? asked the man with the blunderbuss . 
That is neither here nor there , said I , for I was growing very wroth . 
Well , was the reply , ye can put it down upon the doorstep , and be off with ye . 
I will do no such thing , I cried . 
I will deliver it into Mr. Balfour's hands , as it was meant I should . 
It is a letter of introduction . 
A what ? cried the voice , sharply . 
I repeated what I had said . 
Who are ye , yourself ? was the next question , after a considerable pause . 
I am not ashamed of my name , said I. They call me David Balfour . 
Ay the man resumed , he'll be dead , no doubt and that'll be what brings ye chapping to my door . 
Another pause , and then defiantly , Well , man , he said , I'll let ye in and he disappeared from the window . 
The fire had burned up fairly bright , and showed me the barest room I think I ever put my eyes on . 
Half a dozen dishes stood upon the shelves the table was laid for supper with a bowl of porridge , a horn spoon , and a cup of small beer . 
As soon as the last chain was up , the man rejoined me . 
He was a mean , stooping , narrow shouldered , clay faced creature and his age might have been anything between fifty and seventy . 
His nightcap was of flannel , and so was the nightgown that he wore , instead of coat and waistcoat , over his ragged shirt . 
He was long unshaved but what most distressed and even daunted me , he would neither take his eyes away from me nor look me fairly in the face . 
Are ye sharp set ? he asked , glancing at about the level of my knee . 
Ye can eat that drop parritch ? I said I feared it was his own supper . 
O , said he , I can do fine wanting it . 
I'll take the ale , though , for it slockens my cough . 
He drank the cup about half out , still keeping an eye upon me as he drank and then suddenly held out his hand . 
Let's see the letter , said he . 
I told him the letter was for Mr. Balfour not for him . 
And who do ye think I am ? says he . 
So give us the letter , and sit down and fill your kyte . 
If I had been some years younger , what with shame , weariness , and disappointment , I believe I had burst into tears . 
Meanwhile , my uncle , stooping over the fire , turned the letter over and over in his hands . 
Do ye ken what's in it ? he asked , suddenly . 
You see for yourself , sir , said I , that the seal has not been broken . 
But I am no beggar I look for no favours at your hands , and I want none that are not freely given . 
For as poor as I appear , I have friends of my own that will be blithe to help me . 
Hoot toot ! said Uncle Ebenezer , dinnae fly up in the snuff at me . 
And , Davie , my man , if you're done with that bit parritch , I could just take a sup of it myself . 
Ay , he continued , as soon as he had ousted me from the stool and spoon , they're fine , halesome food they're grand food , parritch . 
He murmured a little grace to himself and fell to . 
He took a pull at the small beer , which probably reminded him of hospitable duties , for his next speech ran thus If ye're dry ye'll find water behind the door . 
To this I returned no answer , standing stiffly on my two feet , and looking down upon my uncle with a mighty angry heart . 
From this I was awakened by his sharp voice . 
Your father's been long dead ? he asked . 
Three weeks , sir , said I. He was a secret man , Alexander a secret , silent man , he continued . 
He never said muckle when he was young . 
He'll never have spoken muckle of me ? I never knew , sir , till you told it me yourself , that he had any brother . 
Dear me , dear me ! said Ebenezer . 
Nor yet of Shaws , I dare say ? Not so much as the name , sir , said I. To think o' that ! said he . 
We'll agree fine yet ! he cried . 
I'm just as glad I let you in . 
And now come awa' to your bed . 
I was close upon his heels , having stumbled after him as best I might and then he bade me go in , for that was my chamber . 
I did as he bid , but paused after a few steps , and begged a light to go to bed with . 
Hoot toot ! said Uncle Ebenezer , there's a fine moon . 
Neither moon nor star , sir , and pit mirk , said I. I cannae see the bed . 
Hoot toot , hoot toot ! said he . 
Lights in a house is a thing I dinnae agree with . 
I'm unco feared of fires . 
Good night to ye , Davie , my man . 
And before I had time to add a further protest , he pulled the door to , and I heard him lock me in from the outside . 
I did not know whether to laugh or cry . 
Meanwhile the sun was shining outside and being very cold in that miserable room , I knocked and shouted till my gaoler came and let me out . 
The table was laid with two bowls and two horn spoons , but the same single measure of small beer . 
I told him such was my habit , but not to put himself about . 
Na , na , said he I'll deny you nothing in reason . 
He fetched another cup from the shelf and then , to my great surprise , instead of drawing more beer , he poured an accurate half from one cup to the other . 
Then he sat down in the sun at one of the windows and silently smoked . 
From time to time his eyes came coasting round to me , and he shot out one of his questions . 
He seemed to turn this over in his mind and then , Davie , my man , said he , ye've come to the right bit when ye came to your uncle Ebenezer . 
Nae letters nae messages no kind of word to onybody or else there's my door . 
Uncle Ebenezer , said I , I've no manner of reason to suppose you mean anything but well by me . 
For all that , I would have you to know that I have a pride of my own . 
It was by no will of mine that I came seeking you and if you show me your door again , I'll take you at the word . 
He seemed grievously put out . 
Hoots toots , said he , ca' cannie , man ca' cannie ! Bide a day or two . 
Very well , said I , enough said . 
If you want to help me , there's no doubt but I'll be glad of it , and none but I'll be grateful . 
Is this my house or yours ? said he , in his keen voice , and then all of a sudden broke off . 
Na , na , said he , I didnae mean that . 
What's mine is yours , Davie , my man , and what's yours is mine . 
Blood's thicker than water and there's naebody but you and me that ought the name . 
The limmer ! he cried . 
And with that he opened a chest , and got out a very old and well preserved blue coat and waistcoat , and a good enough beaver hat , both without lace . 
These he threw on any way , and taking a staff from the cupboard , locked all up again , and was for setting out , when a thought arrested him . 
I cannae leave you by yoursel' in the house , said he . 
I'll have to lock you out . 
The blood came to my face . 
If you lock me out , I said , it'll be the last you'll see of me in friendship . 
He turned very pale , and sucked his mouth in . 
This is no the way he said , looking wickedly at a corner of the floor this is no the way to win my favour , David . 
Sir , says I , with a proper reverence for your age and our common blood , I do not value your favour at a boddle's purchase . 
Uncle Ebenezer went and looked out of the window for awhile . 
I could see him all trembling and twitching , like a man with palsy . 
But when he turned round , he had a smile upon his face . 
Well , well , said he , we must bear and forbear . 
I'll no go that's all that's to be said of it . 
Uncle Ebenezer , I said , I can make nothing out of this . 
I like you fine we'll agree fine yet and for the honour of the house I couldnae let you leave the way ye came . 
Bide here quiet , there's a good lad just you bide here quiet a bittie , and ye'll find that we agree . 
Well , sir , said I , after I had thought the matter out in silence , I'll stay awhile . 
It's more just I should be helped by my own blood than strangers and if we don't agree , I'll do my best it shall be through no fault of mine . 
CHAPTER IV I RUN A GREAT DANGER IN THE HOUSE OF SHAWS For a day that was begun so ill , the day passed fairly well . 
We had the porridge cold again at noon , and hot porridge at night porridge and small beer was my uncle's diet . 
One thing I discovered , which put me in some doubt . 
Alexander ? No him ! was the reply . 
I was far quicker mysel' I was a clever chappie when I was young . 
Why , I could read as soon as he could . 
This puzzled me yet more and a thought coming into my head , I asked if he and my father had been twins . 
He jumped upon his stool , and the horn spoon fell out of his hand upon the floor . 
What do you mean ? I asked , very calmly , for I was far stronger than he , and not easily frightened . 
Take your hand from my jacket . 
This is no way to behave . 
My uncle seemed to make a great effort upon himself . 
Dod man , David , he said , ye should nae speak to me about your father . 
That's where the mistake is . 
a story like some ballad I had heard folk singing , of a poor lad that was a rightful heir and a wicked kinsman that tried to keep him from his own . 
Davie , he said , at length , I've been thinking then he paused , and said it again . 
There's a wee bit siller that I half promised ye before ye were born , he continued promised it to your father . 
O , naething legal , ye understand just gentlemen daffing at their wine . 
I did his will , smiling to myself in my contempt that he should think I was so easily to be deceived . 
It was a dark night , with a few stars low down and as I stood just outside the door , I heard a hollow moaning of wind far off among the hills . 
I said to myself there was something thundery and changeful in the weather , and little knew of what a vast importance that should prove to me before the evening passed . 
There , said he , that'll show you ! I'm a queer man , and strange wi' strangers but my word is my bond , and there's the proof of it . 
Now , my uncle seemed so miserly that I was struck dumb by this sudden generosity , and could find no words in which to thank him . 
No a word ! said he . 
Nae thanks I want nae thanks . 
it's a pleasure to me to do the right by my brother's son and it's a pleasure to me to think that now we'll agree as such near friends should . 
Presently he looked towards me sideways . 
And see here , says he , tit for tat . 
I told him I was ready to prove my gratitude in any reasonable degree , and then waited , looking for some monstrous demand . 
that he was growing old and a little broken , and that he would expect me to help him with the house and the bit garden . 
I answered , and expressed my readiness to serve . 
Well , he said , let's begin . 
He pulled out of his pocket a rusty key . 
There , says he , there's the key of the stair tower at the far end of the house . 
Ye can only win into it from the outside , for that part of the house is no finished . 
Gang ye in there , and up the stairs , and bring me down the chest that's at the top . 
There's papers in't , he added . 
Can I have a light , sir ? said I. Na , said he , very cunningly . 
Nae lights in my house . 
But the stairs are grand underfoot . 
Out I went into the night . 
The wind was still moaning in the distance , though never a breath of it came near the house of Shaws . 
It had fallen blacker than ever and I was glad to feel along the wall , till I came the length of the stairtower door at the far end of the unfinished wing . 
I had to put my hand over my eyes to get back to the colour of the darkness and indeed I was already half blinded when I stepped into the tower . 
The wall , by the touch , was of fine hewn stone the steps too , though somewhat steep and narrow , were of polished masonwork , and regular and solid underfoot . 
Minding my uncle's word about the bannisters , I kept close to the tower side , and felt my way in the pitch darkness with a beating heart . 
The house of Shaws stood some five full storeys high , not counting lofts . 
If I did not cry out , it was because fear had me by the throat and if I did not fall , it was more by Heaven's mercy than my own strength . 
This was the grand stair ! I thought and with the thought , a gust of a kind of angry courage came into my heart . 
My uncle had sent me here , certainly to run great risks , perhaps to die . 
The tower , I should have said , was square and in every corner the step was made of a great stone of a different shape to join the flights . 
Well , I had come close to one of these turns , when , feeling forward as usual , my hand slipped upon an edge and found nothing but emptiness beyond it . 
But I knew what I wanted now , and turned and groped my way down again , with a wonderful anger in my heart . 
I put out my head into the storm , and looked along towards the kitchen . 
Now , whether my uncle thought the crash to be the sound of my fall , or whether he heard in it God's voice denouncing murder , I will leave you to guess . 
Certain it is , at least , that he was seized on by a kind of panic fear , and that he ran into the house and left the door open behind him . 
I followed as softly as I could , and , coming unheard into the kitchen , stood and watched him . 
He had found time to open the corner cupboard and bring out a great case bottle of aqua vitae , and now sat with his back towards me at the table . 
Ever and again he would be seized with a fit of deadly shuddering and groan aloud , and carrying the bottle to his lips , drink down the raw spirits by the mouthful . 
I was somewhat shocked at this but I had myself to look to first of all , and did not hesitate to let him lie as he had fallen . 
The keys were hanging in the cupboard and it was my design to furnish myself with arms before my uncle should come again to his senses and the power of devising evil . 
Thence I turned to the chests . 
I found a rusty , ugly looking Highland dirk without the scabbard . 
This , then , I concealed inside my waistcoat , and turned to my uncle . 
At last he looked up and saw me , and there came into his eyes a terror that was not of this world . 
Come , come , said I sit up . 
Are ye alive ? he sobbed . 
O man , are ye alive ? That am I , said I. Small thanks to you ! He had begun to seek for his breath with deep sighs . 
The blue phial , said he in the aumry the blue phial . 
His breath came slower still . 
It's the trouble , said he , reviving a little I have a trouble , Davie . 
I set him on a chair and looked at him . 
He heard me all through in silence and then , in a broken voice , begged me to let him go to bed . 
I'll tell ye the morn , he said as sure as death I will . 
And so weak was he that I could do nothing but consent . 
CHAPTER V I GO TO THE QUEEN'S FERRY Much rain fell in the night and the next morning there blew a bitter wintry wind out of the north west , driving scattered clouds . 
All aglow from my bath , I sat down once more beside the fire , which I replenished , and began gravely to consider my position . 
But I was young and spirited , and like most lads that have been country bred , I had a great opinion of my shrewdness . 
Presently , all swollen with conceit , I went up stairs and gave my prisoner his liberty . 
He gave me good morning civilly and I gave the same to him , smiling down upon him , from the heights of my sufficiency . 
Soon we were set to breakfast , as it might have been the day before . 
You took me for a country Johnnie Raw , with no more mother wit or courage than a porridge stick . 
I took you for a good man , or no worse than others at the least . 
It seems we were both wrong . 
Bidding my uncle sit where he was , I went to open it , and found on the doorstep a half grown boy in sea clothes . 
, snapping his fingers in the air and footing it right cleverly . 
What cheer , mate ? says he , with a cracked voice . 
I asked him soberly to name his pleasure . 
O , pleasure ! says he and then began to sing For it's my delight , of a shiny night , In the season of the year . 
Well , said I , if you have no business at all , I will even be so unmannerly as to shut you out . 
Stay , brother ! he cried . 
Have you no fun about you ? or do you want to get me thrashed ? I've brought a letter from old Heasyoasy to Mr. Belflower . 
He showed me a letter as he spoke . 
And I say , mate , he added , I'm mortal hungry . 
Well , said I , come into the house , and you shall have a bite if I go empty for it . 
Read that , said he , and put the letter in my hand . 
Here it is , lying before me as I write The Hawes Inn , at the Queen's Ferry . 
Sir , I lie here with my hawser up and down , and send my cabin boy to informe . 
If you have any further commands for over seas , to day will be the last occasion , as the wind will serve us well out of the firth . 
I have drawn a bill upon you , as per margin , and am , sir , your most obedt . 
, humble servant , ELIAS HOSEASON . 
After a' that's come and gone , ye would be swier to believe me upon my naked word but ye'll believe Rankeillor . 
He's factor to half the gentry in these parts an auld man , forby highly respeckit , and he kenned your father . 
I stood awhile and thought . 
One thing with another , I made up my mind . 
Very well , says I , let us go to the Ferry . 
The wind , being in that cold quarter the north west , blew nearly in our faces as we went . 
Uncle Ebenezer trudged in the ditch , jogging from side to side like an old ploughman coming home from work . 
He never said a word the whole way and I was thrown for talk on the cabin boy . 
and of Captain Hoseason , in whose praises he was equally loud . 
He would only admit one flaw in his idol . 
He ain't no seaman , he admitted . 
He done that Mr. Shuan done it , he said , with an air of pride . 
See'ere and he showed me a great case knife , which he told me was stolen . 
was little better than a hell upon the seas . 
Have you no friends ? said I. He said he had a father in some English seaport , I forget which . 
He was a fine man , too , he said , but he's dead . 
And then it's not all as bad as that , says he there's worse off than me there's the twenty pounders . 
O , laws ! you should see them taking on . 
When we carry little uns , I have a rope's end of my own to wollop'em . 
for private interest or vengeance . 
Just then we came to the top of the hill , and looked down on the Ferry and the Hope . 
The town of Queensferry lies farther west , and the neighbourhood of the inn looked pretty lonely at that time of day , for the boat had just gone north with passengers . 
We had all three pulled up on the brow of the hill and now I marched across the road and addressed my uncle . 
I think it right to tell you , sir . 
says I , there's nothing that will bring me on board that Covenant . 
He seemed to waken from a dream . 
What's that ? I told him over again . 
Well , well , he said , we'll have to please ye , I suppose . 
But what are we standing here for ? It's perishing cold and if I'm no mistaken , they're busking the Covenant for sea . 
At a table hard by the chimney , a tall , dark , sober looking man sat writing . 
He got to his feet at once , and coming forward , offered his large hand to Ebenezer . 
I am proud to see you , Mr. Balfour , said he , in a fine deep voice , and glad that ye are here in time . 
The wind's fair , and the tide upon the turn we'll see the old coal bucket burning on the Isle of May before to night . 
Captain Hoseason , returned my uncle , you keep your room unco hot . 
It's a habit I have , Mr. Balfour , said the skipper . 
I'm a cold rife man by my nature I have a cold blood , sir . 
There's neither fur , nor flannel no , sir , nor hot rum , will warm up what they call the temperature . 
Sir , it's the same with most men that have been carbonadoed , as they call it , in the tropic seas . 
Well , well , captain , replied my uncle , we must all be the way we're made . 
But it chanced that this fancy of the captain's had a great share in my misfortunes . 
With the wind in that quarter , only little wavelets , not much bigger than I had seen upon a lake , beat upon the shore . 
But the weeds were new to me some green , some brown and long , and some with little bladders that crackled between my fingers . 
I passed the time of day with one that looked less desperate than his fellows , and asked him of the sailing of the brig . 
I told him I would give him no such thing , for neither he nor I was of an age for such indulgences . 
Here it occurred to me that , as the landlord was a man of that county , I might do well to make a friend of him . 
Hoot , ay , says he , and a very honest man . 
I told him no , none . 
I thought not , said he , and yet ye have a kind of gliff of Mr. Alexander . 
I said it seemed that Ebenezer was ill seen in the country . 
Nae doubt , said the landlord . 
He's a wicked auld man , and there's many would like to see him girning in the tow . 
Jennet Clouston and mony mair that he has harried out of house and hame . 
And yet he was ance a fine young fellow , too . 
But that was before the sough gaed abroad about Mr. Alexander , that was like the death of him . 
And what was it ? I asked . 
Ou , just that he had killed him , said the landlord . 
Did ye never hear that ? And what would he kill him for ? said I. And what for , but just to get the place , said he . 
The place ? said I. The Shaws ? Nae other place that I ken , said he . 
Ay , man ? said I. Is that so ? Was my was Alexander the eldest son ? 'Deed was he , said the landlord . 
What else would he have killed him for ? And with that he went away , as he had been impatient to do from the beginning . 
I wondered if it was possible that Ransome's stories could be true , and half disbelieved them they fitted so ill with the man's looks . 
The next thing , I heard my uncle calling me , and found the pair in the road together . 
Sir , said he , Mr. Balfour tells me great things of you and for my own part , I like your looks . 
I wish I was for longer here , that we might make the better friends but we'll make the most of what we have . 
Ye shall come on board my brig for half an hour , till the ebb sets , and drink a bowl with me . 
Ay , ay , said he , he passed me word of that . 
But , ye see , the boat'll set ye ashore at the town pier , and that's but a penny stonecast from Rankeillor's house . 
And here he suddenly leaned down and whispered in my ear Take care of the old tod he means mischief . 
Come aboard till I can get a word with ye . 
By this time we were at the boat side , and he was handing me in . 
that I had found a good friend and helper , and I was rejoiced to see the ship . 
Hoseason , declaring that he and I must be the first aboard , ordered a tackle to be sent down from the main yard . 
In this I was whipped into the air and set down again on the deck , where the captain stood ready waiting for me , and instantly slipped back his arm under mine . 
But where is my uncle ? said I suddenly . 
Ay , said Hoseason , with a sudden grimness , that's the point . 
I felt I was lost . 
With all my strength , I plucked myself clear of him and ran to the bulwarks . 
Sure enough , there was the boat pulling for the town , with my uncle sitting in the stern . 
It was the last I saw . 
Already strong hands had been plucking me back from the ship's side and now a thunderbolt seemed to strike me I saw a great flash of fire , and fell senseless . 
I heard a gun fire , and supposed the storm had proved too strong for us , and we were firing signals of distress . 
The thought of deliverance , even by death in the deep sea , was welcome to me . 
a common habit of the captain's , which I here set down to show that even the worst man may have his kindlier side . 
But sleep at length stole from me the consciousness of sorrow . 
I was awakened by the light of a hand lantern shining in my face . 
A small man of about thirty , with green eyes and a tangle of fair hair , stood looking down at me . 
Ay , said he , a sore dunt . 
What , man ? Cheer up ! The world's no done you've made a bad start of it but you'll make a better . 
Have you had any meat ? Stroke . 
I said I could not look at it and thereupon he gave me some brandy and water in a tin pannikin , and left me once more to myself . 
I ached , besides , in every limb , and the cords that bound me seemed to be of fire . 
The man with the green eyes was the first to descend the ladder , and I noticed that he came somewhat unsteadily . 
He was followed by the captain . 
Neither said a word but the first set to and examined me , and dressed my wound as before , while Hoseason looked me in my face with an odd , black look . 
Now , sir , you see for yourself , said the first a high fever , no appetite , no light , no meat you see for yourself what that means . 
I am no conjurer , Mr. Riach , said the captain . 
What ye may want , sir , is a matter of concern to nobody but yoursel' , returned the captain but I can tell ye that which is to be . 
Here he is here he shall bide . 
Admitting that you have been paid in a proportion , said the other , I will crave leave humbly to say that I have not . 
Paid I am , and none too much , to be the second officer of this old tub , and you ken very well if I do my best to earn it . 
But I was paid for nothing more . 
We'll be required on deck , he added , in a sharper note , and set one foot upon the ladder . 
But Mr. Riach caught him by the sleeve . 
Admitting that you have been paid to do a murder he began . 
Hoseason turned upon him with a flash . 
What's that ? he cried . 
What kind of talk is that ? It seems it is the talk that you can understand , said Mr. Riach , looking him steadily in the face . 
Mr. Riach , I have sailed with ye three cruises , replied the captain . 
If ye say the lad will die Ay , will he ! said Mr. Riach . 
Well , sir , is not that enough ? said Hoseason . 
he was like to prove a valuable friend . 
It was a blessed thing indeed to open my eyes again upon the daylight , and to find myself in the society of men . 
The forecastle was a roomy place enough , set all about with berths , in which the men of the watch below were seated smoking , or lying down asleep . 
a dusty beam of sunlight shone in , and dazzled and delighted me . 
There were no bones broken , he explained A clour on the head was naething . 
Man , said he , it was me that gave it ye ! Blow . 
Here I lay for the space of many days a close prisoner , and not only got my health again , but came to know my companions . 
No class of man is altogether bad , but each has its own faults and virtues and these shipmates of mine were no exception to the rule . 
Rough they were , sure enough and bad , I suppose but they had many virtues . 
They were kind when it occurred to them , simple even beyond the simplicity of a country lad like me , and had some glimmerings of honesty . 
There was one man , of maybe forty , that would sit on my berthside for hours and tell me of his wife and child . 
He was a fisher that had lost his boat , and thus been driven to the deep sea voyaging . 
Well , it is years ago now but I have never forgotten him . 
waited in vain to see her man return he would never again make the fire for her in the morning , nor yet keep the bairn when she was sick . 
were upon their last cruise the deep seas and cannibal fish received them and it is a thankless business to speak ill of the dead . 
The ship was bound for the Carolinas and you must not suppose that I was going to that place merely as an exile . 
came in at times from the round house , where he berthed and served , now nursing a bruised limb in silent agony , now raving against the cruelty of Mr. Shuan . 
I asked about the captain but I was told drink made no difference upon that man of iron . 
But his mind was scarce truly human . 
In a town , he thought every second person a decoy , and every third house a place in which seamen would be drugged and murdered . 
if he had had a glass of spirits in the roundhouse , he would deride the notion . 
and bid him stop that nonsense , and think what he was doing . 
As for me , I felt ashamed to look at him , and the poor child still comes about me in my dreams . 
, I pledged him to secrecy , and told him my whole story . 
to pull me through and set me in my rights . 
And in the meantime , says he , keep your heart up . 
You're not the only one , I'll tell you that . 
Never had one , said he . 
I like fun , that's all . 
And he skipped out of the forecastle . 
came below for his jacket and instantly there began to go a whisper about the forecastle that Shuan had done for him at last . 
My man , said he , we want ye to serve in the round house . 
You and Ransome are to change berths . 
Run away aft with ye . 
It was as white as wax , and had a look upon it like a dreadful smile . 
The blood in me ran cold , and I drew in my breath as if I had been struck . 
Run away aft run away aft with ye ! cried Hoseason . 
, and ran up the ladder on deck . 
The brig was sheering swiftly and giddily through a long , cresting swell . 
She was on the starboard tack , and on the left hand , under the arched foot of the foresail , I could see the sunset still quite bright . 
For my part , who had been so long shut in the dark and knew nothing of head winds , I thought we might be half way or more across the Atlantic . 
Inside were a fixed table and bench , and two berths , one for the captain and the other for the two mates , turn and turn about . 
The most of the cutlasses were in another place . 
A small window with a shutter on each side , and a skylight in the roof , gave it light by , day and after dark there was a lamp always burning . 
It was burning when I entered , not brightly , but enough to show Mr. Shuan sitting at the table , with the brandy bottle and a tin pannikin in front of him . 
He was a tall man , strongly made and very black and he stared before him on the table like one stupid . 
He took no notice of my coming in nor did he move when the captain followed and leant on the berth beside me , looking darkly at the mate . 
Presently Mr. Riach came in . 
sat without a word , looking hard upon the table . 
he tossed the bottle into the sea . 
Sit down ! roars the captain . 
The murderer cried a little , but he took off his sea boots and obeyed . 
Ah ! cried Mr. Riach , with a dreadful voice , ye should have interfered long syne . 
Mr. Riach , said the captain , this night's work must never be kennt in Dysart . 
The boy went overboard , sir that's what the story is and I would give five pounds out of my pocket it was true ! He turned to the table . 
What made ye throw the good bottle away ? he added . 
There was nae sense in that , sir . 
Here , David , draw me another . 
They're in the bottom locker and he tossed me a key . 
Ye'll need a glass yourself , sir , he added to Riach . 
Yon was an ugly thing to see . 
That was the first night of my new duties and in the course of the next day I had got well into the run of them . 
How they kept their health , I know not , any more than how I kept my own . 
And yet in other ways it was an easy service . 
sometimes fell with what I was bringing them , both Mr. Riach and the captain were singularly patient . 
As for Mr. Shuan , the drink or his crime , or the two together , had certainly troubled his mind . 
I cannot say I ever saw him in his proper wits . 
, and more than once drew back from my hand when I was serving him . 
But I had no cause to be afraid of him . 
You were not here before ? he asked . 
You may think it strange , but for all the horror I had , I was still sorry for him . 
He was a married man , with a wife in Leith but whether or no he had a family , I have now forgotten I hope not . 
Altogether it was no very hard life for the time it lasted , which was not long . 
I had company , too , and good company of its sort . 
The shadow of poor Ransome , to be sure , lay on all four of us , and on me and Mr. Shuan in particular , most heavily . 
And then I had another trouble of my own . 
Some days she made a little way others , she was driven actually back . 
The tenth afternoon there was a falling swell and a thick , wet , white fog that hid one end of the brig from the other . 
My two masters leaped to their feet . 
She's struck ! said Mr. Riach . 
No , sir , said the captain . 
We've only run a boat down . 
The captain was in the right of it . 
We had run down a boat in the fog , and she had parted in the midst and gone to the bottom with all her crew but one . 
had been sitting in the stern as a passenger , while the rest were on the benches rowing . 
had leaped up and caught hold of the brig's bowsprit . 
It showed he had luck and much agility and unusual strength , that he should have thus saved himself from such a pass . 
And yet , when the captain brought him into the round house , and I set eyes on him for the first time , he looked as cool as I did . 
His manners , besides , were elegant , and he pledged the captain handsomely . 
Altogether I thought of him , at the first sight , that here was a man I would rather call my friend than my enemy . 
The captain , too , was taking his observations , but rather of the man's clothes than his person . 
I'm vexed , sir , about the boat , says the captain . 
There are some pretty men gone to the bottom , said the stranger , that I would rather see on the dry land again than half a score of boats . 
Friends of yours ? said Hoseason . 
You have none such friends in your country , was the reply . 
They would have died for me like dogs . 
Well , sir , said the captain , still watching him , there are more men in the world than boats to put them in . 
And that's true , too , cried the other , and ye seem to be a gentleman of great penetration . 
I have been in France , sir , says the captain , so that it was plain he meant more by the words than showed upon the face of them . 
Well , sir , says the other , and so has many a pretty man , for the matter of that . 
No doubt , sir says the captain , and fine coats . 
Oho ! says the stranger , is that how the wind sets ? And he laid his hand quickly on his pistols . 
Don't be hasty , said the captain . 
Don't do a mischief before ye see the need of it . 
Why , sir , replied the captain , I am a true blue Protestant , and I thank God for it . 
But , for all that , says he , I can be sorry to see another man with his back to the wall . 
Can ye so , indeed ? asked the Jacobite . 
if I got into the hands of any of the red coated gentry , it's like it would go hard with me . 
In France ? says the captain . 
No , sir that I cannot do . 
But where ye come from we might talk of that . 
And then , unhappily , he observed me standing in my corner , and packed me off to the galley to get supper for the gentleman . 
The captain was looking at the guineas , and then at the belt , and then at the gentleman's face and I thought he seemed excited . 
Half of it , he cried , and I'm your man ! The other swept back the guineas into the belt , and put it on again under his waistcoat . 
I have told ye sir said he , that not one doit of it belongs to me . 
Thirty guineas on the sea side , or sixty if ye set me on the Linnhe Loch . 
Take it , if ye will if not , ye can do your worst . 
And if I give ye over to the soldiers ? Ye would make a fool's bargain , said the other . 
My chief , let me tell you , sir , is forfeited , like every honest man in Scotland . 
His estate is in the hands of the man they call King George and it is his officers that collect the rents , or try to collect them . 
But I think , if I was to try , that I could hold my tongue about it . 
Ah , but I'll begowk ye there ! cried the gentleman . 
Play me false , and I'll play you cunning . 
If a hand is laid upon me , they shall ken what money it is . 
Well , returned the captain , what must be must . 
Sixty guineas , and done . 
Here's my hand upon it . 
And here's mine , said the other . 
, and left me alone in the round house with the stranger . 
And as if all this were not enough , he had a belt full of golden guineas round his loins . 
Whatever my opinions , I could not look on such a man without a lively interest . 
And so you're a Jacobite ? said I , as I set meat before him . 
Ay , said he , beginning to eat . 
And you , by your long face , should be a Whig ? Whig or Whigamore was the cant name for those who were loyal to King George . 
Betwixt and between , said I , not to annoy him for indeed I was as good a Whig as Mr. Campbell could make me . 
And that's naething , said he . 
I'll go and ask for the key , said I , and stepped on deck . 
The fog was as close as ever , but the swell almost down . 
not serving well for their true course . 
Some of the hands were still hearkening for breakers but the captain and the two officers were in the waist with their heads together . 
that they were after no good and the first word I heard , as I drew softly near , more than confirmed me . 
Well , that's true , said Riach but he's hard to come at . 
My first mind was to run away my second was bolder . 
Captain , said I , the gentleman is seeking a dram , and the bottle's out . 
Will you give me the key ? They all started and turned about . 
David kens David's a good lad . 
The trouble is , resumed the captain , that all our firelocks , great and little , are in the round house under this man's nose likewise the powder . 
Now , if I , or one of the officers , was to go in and take them , he would fall to thinking . 
But a lad like you , David , might snap up a horn and a pistol or two without remark . 
And if ye can do it cleverly , I'll bear it in mind when it'll be good for you to have friends and that's when we come to Carolina . 
Here Mr. Riach whispered him a little . 
Do ye want to be killed ? said I. He sprang to his feet , and looked a question at me as clear as if he had spoken . 
O ! cried I , they're all murderers here it's a ship full of them ! They've murdered a boy already . 
Ay , ay said he but they have n't got me yet . 
And then looking at me curiously , Will ye stand with me ? That will I ! said I. I am no thief , nor yet murderer . 
My name is Stewart , he said , drawing himself up . 
Alan Breck , they call me . 
A king's name is good enough for me , though I bear it plain and have the name of no farm midden to clap to the hind end of it . 
And having administered this rebuke , as though it were something of a chief importance , he turned to examine our defences . 
The round house was built very strong , to support the breaching of the seas . 
Of its five apertures , only the skylight and the two doors were large enough for the passage of a man . 
The one that was already shut I secured in this fashion but when I was proceeding to slide to the other , Alan stopped me . 
It would be yet better shut , says I. Not so , David , says he . 
And that will be better work , let me tell you , said he , for a gentleman of decent birth , than scraping plates and raxing drams to a wheen tarry sailors . 
Thereupon he stood up in the midst with his face to the door , and drawing his great sword , made trial of the room he had to wield it in . 
I must stick to the point , he said , shaking his head and that's a pity , too . 
It doesn't set my genius , which is all for the upper guard . 
And , now said he , do you keep on charging the pistols , and give heed to me . 
I told him I would listen closely . 
First of all , said he , how many are against us ? I reckoned them up and such was the hurry of my mind , I had to cast the numbers twice . 
Fifteen , said I. Alan whistled . 
Well , said he , that can't be cured . 
It is my part to keep this door , where I look for the main battle . 
In that , ye have no hand . 
I told him , indeed I was no great shot . 
And that , s very bravely said , he cried , in a great admiration of my candour . 
There's many a pretty gentleman that wouldnae dare to say it . 
But then , sir said I , there is the door behind you which they may perhaps break in . 
Ay , said he , and that is a part of your work . 
No sooner the pistols charged , than ye must climb up into yon bed where ye're handy at the window and if they lift hand , against the door , ye're to shoot . 
Let's make a bit of a soldier of ye , David . 
And that's very true , said Alan . 
CHAPTER X THE SIEGE OF THE ROUND HOUSE But now our time of truce was come to an end . 
Those on deck had waited for my coming till they grew impatient and scarce had Alan spoken , when the captain showed face in the open door . 
Stand ! cried Alan , and pointed his sword at him . 
The captain stood , indeed but he neither winced nor drew back a foot . 
A naked sword ? says he . 
This is a strange return for hospitality . 
Do ye see me ? said Alan . 
I am come of kings I bear a king's name . 
My badge is the oak . 
Do ye see my sword ? It has slashed the heads off mair Whigamores than you have toes upon your feet . 
Call up your vermin to your back , sir , and fall on ! The sooner the clash begins , the sooner ye'll taste this steel throughout your vitals . 
The captain said nothing to Alan , but he looked over at me with an ugly look . 
David , said he , I'll mind this and the sound of his voice went through me with a jar . 
Next moment he was gone . 
And now , said Alan , let your hand keep your head , for the grip is coming . 
Alan drew a dirk , which he held in his left hand in case they should run in under his sword . 
I , on my part , clambered up into the berth with an armful of pistols and something of a heavy heart , and set open the window where I was to watch . 
It was a small part of the deck that I could overlook , but enough for our purpose . 
I looked back over my shoulder , and saw Mr. Shuan in the doorway , crossing blades with Alan . 
That's him that killed the boy ! I cried . 
Look to your window ! said Alan and as I turned back to my place , I saw him pass his sword through the mate's body . 
I had never fired with a pistol in my life , and not often with a gun far less against a fellow creature . 
But it was now or never and just as they swang the yard , I cried out Take that ! and shot into their midst . 
I must have hit one of them , for he sang out and gave back a step , and the rest stopped as if a little disconcerted . 
the whole party threw down the yard and ran for it . 
Then I looked round again into the deck house . 
The whole place was full of the smoke of my own firing , just as my ears seemed to be burst with the noise of the shots . 
I believe he died as they were doing it . 
There's one of your Whigs for ye ! cried Alan and then turning to me , he asked if I had done much execution . 
I told him I had winged one , and thought it was the captain . 
And I've settled two , says he . 
No , there's not enough blood let they'll be back again . 
To your watch , David . 
This was but a dram before meat . 
I settled back to my place , re charging the three pistols I had fired , and keeping watch with both eye and ear . 
Our enemies were disputing not far off upon the deck , and that so loudly that I could hear a word or two above the washing of the seas . 
It was Shuan bauchled it , I heard one say . 
And another answered him with a Wheesht , man ! He's paid the piper . 
After that the voices fell again into the same muttering as before . 
Only now , one person spoke most of the time , as though laying down a plan , and first one and then another answered him briefly , like men taking orders . 
By this , I made sure they were coming on again , and told Alan . 
It's what we have to pray for , said he . 
Unless we can give them a good distaste of us , and done with it , there'll be nae sleep for either you or me . 
But this time , mind , they'll be in earnest . 
By this , my pistols were ready , and there was nothing to do but listen and wait . 
While the brush lasted , I had not the time to think if I was frighted but now , when all was still again , my mind ran upon nothing else . 
Then there came a single call on the sea pipe , and that was the signal . 
my whole flesh misgave me , and I could no more pull the trigger than I could have flown . 
He gave the most horrible , ugly groan and fell to the floor . 
There was no talk of missing , any more than there was time to aim I clapped the muzzle to the very place and fired . 
I might have stood and stared at them for long , but I heard Alan shout as if for help , and that brought me to my senses . 
He had kept the door so long but one of the seamen , while he was engaged with others , had run in under his guard and caught him about the body . 
Alan was dirking him with his left hand , but the fellow clung like a leech . 
Another had broken in and had his cutlass raised . 
The door was thronged with their faces . 
I thought we were lost , and catching up my cutlass , fell on them in flank . 
But I had not time to be of help . 
The wrestler dropped at last and Alan , leaping back to get his distance , ran upon the others like a bull , roaring as he went . 
They broke before him like water , turning , and running , and falling one against another in their haste . 
The sword in his hands flashed like quicksilver into the huddle of our fleeing enemies and at every flash there came the scream of a man hurt . 
I was still thinking we were lost , when lo ! they were all gone , and Alan was driving them along the deck as a sheep dog chases sheep . 
The round house was like a shambles three were dead inside , another lay in his death agony across the threshold and there were Alan and I victorious and unhurt . 
He came up to me with open arms . 
Come to my arms ! he cried , and embraced and kissed me hard upon both cheek . 
David , said he , I love you like a brother . 
As he did so , he kept humming and singing and whistling to himself , like a man trying to recall an air only what HE was trying was to make one . 
All the while , the flush was in his face , and his eyes were as bright as a five year old child's with a new toy . 
but at least in the king's English . 
He sang it often afterwards , and the thing became popular so that I have , heard it , and had it explained to me , many's the time . 
This is the song of the sword of Alan The smith made it , The fire set it Now it shines in the hand of Alan Breck . 
Their eyes were many and bright , Swift were they to behold , Many the hands they guided The sword was alone . 
The dun deer troop over the hill , They are many , the hill is one The dun deer vanish , The hill remains . 
Come to me from the hills of heather , Come from the isles of the sea . 
O far beholding eagles , Here is your meat . 
in the hour of our victory , is something less than just to me , who stood beside him in the tussle . 
Mr. Shuan and five more were either killed outright or thoroughly disabled but of these , two fell by my hand , the two that came by the skylight . 
got his hurt from me . 
So that , altogether , I did my fair share both of the killing and the wounding , and might have claimed a place in Alan's verses . 
But poets have to think upon their rhymes and in good prose talk , Alan always did me more than justice . 
In the meanwhile , I was innocent of any wrong being done me . 
Alan clapped my shoulder , and said I was a brave lad and wanted nothing but a sleep . 
I'll take the first watch , said he . 
Ye've done well by me , David , first and last and I wouldn't lose you for all Appin no , nor for Breadalbane . 
So I made up my bed on the floor and he took the first spell , pistol in hand and sword on knee , three hours by the captain's watch upon the wall . 
All my watch there was nothing stirring and by the banging of the helm , I knew they had even no one at the tiller . 
It was a mercy the night had fallen so still , for the wind had gone down as soon as the rain began . 
CHAPTER XI THE CAPTAIN KNUCKLES UNDER Alan and I sat down to breakfast about six of the clock . 
The floor was covered with broken glass and in a horrid mess of blood , which took away my hunger . 
were now shut in the fore part of the ship and condemned to what they hated most cold water . 
And depend upon it , Alan said , we shall hear more of them ere long . 
Ye may keep a man from the fighting , but never from his bottle . 
We made good company for each other . 
Alan , indeed , expressed himself most lovingly and taking a knife from the table , cut me off one of the silver buttons from his coat . 
I had them , says he , from my father , Duncan Stewart and now give ye one of them to be a keepsake for last night's work . 
And wherever ye go and show that button , the friends of Alan Breck will come around you . 
, it belonged to a king and so behoved to be royally looked after . 
For all that , when I saw what care he took to pluck out the threads where the button had been cut away , I put a higher value on his gift . 
This is a bad job , said he at last , shaking his head . 
It was none of our choosing , said I. The captain , says he , would like to speak with your friend . 
They might speak at the window . 
Is that so ? said I. I'll tell ye more than that , said he . 
It's not only the men it's me . 
And he smiled across at me . 
No , he continued , what we want is to be shut of him . 
He drank a part , and then carried the rest down upon the deck , to share it with his superior . 
Alan at once held a pistol in his face . 
Put that thing up ! said the captain . 
Have I not passed my word , sir ? or do ye seek to affront me ? Captain , says Alan , I doubt your word is a breakable . 
Be damned to your word ! says he . 
Well , well , sir , said the captain , ye'll get little good by swearing . 
But we have other things to speak , he continued , bitterly . 
has got your sword throughout his vitals , and passed without speech . 
ye will find them that are better able to talk to you . 
Ay ? said Alan and faith , I'll have a talk with them mysel' ! Unless there's naebody speaks English in that town , I have a bonny tale for them . 
Fifteen tarry sailors upon the one side , and a man and a halfling boy upon the other ! O , man , it's peetiful ! Hoseason flushed red . 
No , continued Alan , that'll no do . 
Ye'll just have to set me ashore as we agreed . 
Ay , said Hoseason , but my first officer is dead ye ken best how . 
There's none of the rest of us acquaint with this coast , sir and it's one very dangerous to ships . 
I give ye your choice , says Alan . 
If ye miss that , ye must be as feckless at the sailoring as I have found ye at the fighting . 
Why , my poor country people in their bit cobles pass from island to island in all weathers , ay , and by night too , for the matter of that . 
Coble a small boat used in fishing . 
A coble's not a ship sir said the captain . 
It has nae draught of water . 
Well , then , to Glasgow if ye list ! says Alan . 
We'll have the laugh of ye at the least . 
My mind runs little upon laughing , said the captain . 
But all this will cost money , sir . 
Well , sir says Alan , I am nae weathercock . 
Thirty guineas , if ye land me on the sea side and sixty , if ye put me in the Linnhe Loch . 
But see , sir , where we lie , we are but a few hours' sail from Ardnamurchan , said Hoseason . 
Give me sixty , and I'll set ye there . 
And I'm to wear my brogues and run jeopardy of the red coats to please you ? cries Alan . 
No , sir if ye want sixty guineas earn them , and set me in my own country . 
It's to risk the brig , sir , said the captain , and your own lives along with her . 
Take it or want it , says Alan . 
Could ye pilot us at all ? asked the captain , who was frowning to himself . 
Well , it's doubtful , said Alan . 
I'm more of a fighting man than a sailor man . 
But I have been often enough picked up and set down upon this coast , and should ken something of the lie of it . 
The captain shook his head , still frowning . 
If I had lost less money on this unchancy cruise , says he , I would see you in a rope's end before I risked my brig , sir . 
But be it as ye will . 
I'll put it in hand . 
But there's one thing more . 
Now , sir , if that was to befall , ye might leave the money . 
Captain , says Alan , if ye see a pennant , it shall be your part to run away . 
And now , as I hear you're a little short of brandy in the fore part , I'll offer ye a change a bottle of brandy against two buckets of water . 
CHAPTER XII I HEAR OF THE RED FOX Before we had done cleaning out the round house , a breeze sprang up from a little to the east of north . 
This blew off the rain and brought out the sun . 
And here I must explain and the reader would do well to look at a map . 
On the day when the fog fell and we ran down Alan's boat , we had been running through the Little Minch . 
At dawn after the battle , we lay becalmed to the east of the Isle of Canna or between that and Isle Eriska in the chain of the Long Island . 
Now to get from there to the Linnhe Loch , the straight course was through the narrows of the Sound of Mull . 
All day the breeze held in the same point , and rather freshened than died down and towards afternoon , a swell began to set in from round the outer Hebrides . 
But after nightfall , when we had turned the end of Tiree and began to head more to the east , the sea came right astern . 
, and smoked a pipe or two of the captain's fine tobacco . 
In those days , so close on the back of the great rebellion , it was needful a man should know what he was doing when he went upon the heather . 
It was I that showed the example , telling him all my misfortune which he heard with great good nature . 
Only , when I came to mention that good friend of mine , Mr. Campbell the minister , Alan fired up and cried out that he hated all that were of that name . 
Why , said I , he is a man you should be proud to give your hand to . 
I know nothing I would help a Campbell to , says he , unless it was a leaden bullet . 
I would hunt all of that name like blackcocks . 
If I lay dying , I would crawl upon my knees to my chamber window for a shot at one . 
But I paid the less attention to this , for I knew it was usually said by those who have the underhand . 
You that are so wasteful of your buttons , said I , I can hardly think you would be a good judge of business . 
spoke them fair and gave each man three guineas in his hand . 
And that was the father that I had , God rest him ! I think he was not the man to leave you rich , said I. And that's true , said Alan . 
He left me my breeks to cover me , and little besides . 
What , cried I , were you in the English army ? That was I , said Alan . 
But I deserted to the right side at Preston Pans and that's some comfort . 
I could scarcely share this view holding desertion under arms for an unpardonable fault in honour . 
But for all I was so young , I was wiser than say my thought . 
Dear , dear , says I , the punishment is death . 
I misdoubt it much , said I. I have doubts mysel' , said Alan drily . 
France is a braw place , nae doubt but I weary for the heather and the deer . 
And then I have bit things that I attend to . 
Whiles I pick up a few lads to serve the King of France recruits , ye see and that's aye a little money . 
But the heart of the matter is the business of my chief , Ardshiel . 
I thought they called your chief Appin , said I. Ay , but Ardshiel is the captain of the clan , said he , which scarcely cleared my mind . 
This is not only a pain but a disgrace to us of his family and clan . 
There are the bairns forby , the children and the hope of Appin , that must be learned their letters and how to hold a sword , in that far country . 
Well , David , I'm the hand that carries it . 
And he struck the belt about his body , so that the guineas rang . 
Do they pay both ? cried I. Ay , David , both , says he . 
What ! two rents ? I repeated . 
Ay , David , said he . 
I told a different tale to yon captain man but this is the truth of it . 
And it's wonderful to me how little pressure is needed . 
But that's the handiwork of my good kinsman and my father's friend , James of the Glens James Stewart , that is Ardshiel's half brother . 
He it is that gets the money in , and does the management . 
This was the first time I heard the name of that James Stewart , who was afterwards so famous at the time of his hanging . 
But I took little heed at the moment , for all my mind was occupied with the generosity of these poor Highlanders . 
I call it noble , I cried . 
I'm a Whig , or little better but I call it noble . 
Ay said he , ye're a Whig , but ye're a gentleman and that's what does it . 
Now , if ye were one of the cursed race of Campbell , ye would gnash your teeth to hear tell of it . 
If ye were the Red Fox . 
And at that name , his teeth shut together , and he ceased speaking . 
I have seen many a grim face , but never a grimmer than Alan's when he had named the Red Fox . 
And who is the Red Fox ? I asked , daunted , but still curious . 
Who is he ? cried Alan . 
Well , and I'll tell you that . 
One thing they couldnae kill . 
That was the love the clansmen bore their chief . 
These guineas are the proof of it . 
Ay , that's the man . 
In he steps , and gets papers from King George , to be so called King's factor on the lands of Appin . 
And at first he sings small , and is hail fellow well met with Sheamus that's James of the Glens , my chieftain's agent . 
What was it ye called it , when I told ye ? I called it noble , Alan , said I. And you little better than a common Whig ! cries Alan . 
But when it came to Colin Roy , the black Campbell blood in him ran wild . 
He sat gnashing his teeth at the wine table . 
Well , David , what does he do ? He declares all the farms to let . 
'and then , thinks he , 'Ardshiel will have to hold his bonnet on a French roadside . 
Well , said I , what followed ? Alan laid down his pipe , which he had long since suffered to go out , and set his two hands upon his knees . 
And Whig as I may be , I am glad the man was beaten . 
Him beaten ? echoed Alan . 
It's little ye ken of Campbells , and less of the Red Fox . 
They will do the man ye call the Fox no harm , and yourself no good . 
Tell me your tale plainly out . 
What did he next ? And that's a good observe , David , said Alan . 
, I am much of your mind . 
Opinion here or opinion there , said I , it's a kent thing that Christianity forbids revenge . 
This is what he did . 
Ay said I , come to that . 
Well , David , said he , since he couldnae be rid of the loyal commons by fair means , he swore he would be rid of them by foul . 
Ardshiel was to starve that was the thing he aimed at . 
And since them that fed him in his exile wouldnae be bought out right or wrong , he would drive them out . 
Therefore he sent for lawyers , and papers , and red coats to stand at his back . 
It's not this Campbell's fault , man it's his orders . 
And if ye killed this Colin to morrow , what better would ye be ? There would be another factor in his shoes , as fast as spur can drive . 
I expressed my wonder how , with the Highlands covered with troops , and guarded like a city in a siege , a man in his situation could come and go without arrest . 
It's easier than ye would think , said Alan . 
is like all one road if there's a sentry at one place , ye just go by another . 
And then the heather's a great help . 
And everywhere there are friends' houses and friends' byres and haystacks . 
And besides , when folk talk of a country covered with troops , it's but a kind of a byword at the best . 
A soldier covers nae mair of it than his boot soles . 
This was it , said he , and whistled me the air . 
And then , besides , he continued , it's no sae bad now as it was in forty six . 
The Hielands are what they call pacified . 
But it's a kittle thing to decide what folk'll bear , and what they will not . 
Or why would Red Colin be riding his horse all over my poor country of Appin , and never a pretty lad to put a bullet in him ? Careful . 
And with this Alan fell into a muse , and for a long time sate very sad and silent . 
For his faults , they were on his face , and I now knew them all . 
But whether it was because I had done well myself , or because I had been a witness of his own much greater prowess , is more than I can tell . 
For though he had a great taste for courage in other men , yet he admired it most in Alan Breck . 
, when Hoseason clapped his head into the round house door . 
Here , said he , come out and see if ye can pilot . 
Is this one of your tricks ? asked Alan . 
Do I look like tricks ? cries the captain . 
The sky was clear it blew hard , and was bitter cold a great deal of daylight lingered and the moon , which was nearly full , shone brightly . 
lay full upon the lar board bow . 
Though it was no good point of sailing for the Covenant , she tore through the seas at a great rate , pitching and straining , and pursued by the westerly swell . 
Away on the lee bow , a thing like a fountain rose out of the moonlit sea , and immediately after we heard a low sound of roaring . 
What do ye call that ? asked the captain , gloomily . 
The sea breaking on a reef , said Alan . 
And now ye ken where it is and what better would ye have ? Ay , said Hoseason , if it was the only one . 
And sure enough , just as he spoke there came a second fountain farther to the south . 
Are there many of them ? says the captain . 
Truly , sir , I am nae pilot , said Alan but it sticks in my mind there are ten miles of them . 
Mr. Riach and the captain looked at each other . 
There's a way through them , I suppose ? said the captain . 
Doubtless , said Alan , but where ? But it somehow runs in my mind once more that it is clearer under the land . 
Well , we're in for it now , and may as well crack on . 
With that he gave an order to the steersman , and sent Riach to the foretop . 
So , as I say , it fell to Mr. Riach to go aloft , and he sat there looking out and hailing the deck with news of all he saw . 
The sea to the south is thick , he cried and then , after a while , it does seem clearer in by the land . 
Well , sir , said Hoseason to Alan , we'll try your way of it . 
But I think I might as well trust to a blind fiddler . 
Pray God I am ! says Alan to me . 
But where did I hear it ? Well , well , it will be as it must . 
The brightness of the night showed us these perils as clearly as by day , which was , perhaps , the more alarming . 
The tide at the tail of the land ran very strong , and threw the brig about . 
struggle against and drive them back . 
This would have been the greater danger had not the sea been for some while free of obstacles . 
Mr. Riach , besides , announced from the top that he saw clear water ahead . 
Ye were right , said Hoseason to Alan . 
Ye have saved the brig , sir . 
I'll mind that when we come to clear accounts . 
And I believe he not only meant what he said , but would have done it so high a place did the Covenant hold in his affections . 
But this is matter only for conjecture , things having gone otherwise than he forecast . 
Keep her away a point , sings out Mr. Riach . 
Reef to windward ! And just at the same time the tide caught the brig , and threw the wind out of her sails . 
I was on my feet in a minute . 
The reef on which we had struck was close in under the southwest end of Mull , off a little isle they call Earraid , which lay low and black upon the larboard . 
The captain took no part . 
It seemed he was struck stupid . 
He stood holding by the shrouds , talking to himself and groaning out aloud whenever the ship hammered on the rock . 
We had one of the wounded men told off to keep a watch upon the seas and cry us warning . 
I went down , and drank my fill , and then came up , and got a blink of the moon , and then down again . 
They say a man sinks a third time for good . 
I cannot be made like other folk , then for I would not like to write how often I went down , or how often I came up again . 
Presently , I found I was holding to a spar , which helped me somewhat . 
And then all of a sudden I was in quiet water , and began to come to myself . 
It was the spare yard I had got hold of , and I was amazed to see how far I had travelled from the brig . 
I hailed her , indeed but it was plain she was already out of cry . 
She was still holding together but whether or not they had yet launched the boat , I was too far off and too low down to see . 
Sometimes the whole tract swung to one side , like the tail of a live serpent sometimes , for a glimpse , it would all disappear and then boil up again . 
I now lay quite becalmed , and began to feel that a man can die of cold as well as of drowning . 
The shores of Earraid were close in I could see in the moonlight the dots of heather and the sparkling of the mica in the rocks . 
The sea was here quite quiet there was no sound of any surf the moon shone clear and I thought in my heart I had never seen a place so desert and desolate . 
Both , at least , I was tired as I never was before that night and grateful to God as I trust I have been often , though never with more cause . 
CHAPTER XIV THE ISLET With my stepping ashore I began the most unhappy part of my adventures . 
It was half past twelve in the morning , and though the wind was broken by the land , it was a cold night . 
, but took off my shoes and walked to and fro upon the sand , bare foot , and beating my breast with infinite weariness . 
To walk by the sea at that hour of the morning , and in a place so desert like and lonesome , struck me with a kind of fear . 
When I got to the top the dawn was come . 
There was no sign of the brig , which must have lifted from the reef and sunk . 
The boat , too , was nowhere to be seen . 
There was never a sail upon the ocean and in what I could see of the land was neither house nor man . 
I was afraid to think what had befallen my shipmates , and afraid to look longer at so empty a scene . 
What with my wet clothes and weariness , and my belly that now began to ache with hunger , I had enough to trouble me without that . 
So I set off eastward along the south coast , hoping to find a house where I might warm myself , and perhaps get news of those I had lost . 
And at the worst , I considered the sun would soon rise and dry my clothes . 
is nothing but a jumble of granite rocks with heather in among . 
At first the creek kept narrowing as I had looked to see but presently to my surprise it began to widen out again . 
Instead of the sun rising to dry me , it came on to rain , with a thick mist so that my case was lamentable . 
I stood in the rain , and shivered , and wondered what to do , till it occurred to me that perhaps the creek was fordable . 
Back I went to the narrowest point and waded in . 
But not three yards from shore , I plumped in head over ears and if ever I was heard of more , it was rather by God's grace than my own prudence . 
, but I was all the colder for this mishap and having lost another hope was the more unhappy . 
And now , all at once , the yard came in my head . 
What had carried me through the roost would surely serve me to cross this little quiet creek in safety . 
With that I set off , undaunted , across the top of the isle , to fetch and carry it back . 
It was a weary tramp in all ways , and if hope had not buoyed me up , I must have cast myself down and given up . 
I came to the bay at last , more dead than alive and at the first glance , I thought the yard was something farther out than when I left it . 
In I went , for the third time , into the sea . 
But at that depth my feet began to leave me , and I durst venture in no farther . 
As for the yard , I saw it bobbing very quietly some twenty feet beyond . 
I had borne up well until this last disappointment but at that I came ashore , and flung myself down upon the sands and wept . 
The time I spent upon the island is still so horrible a thought to me , that I must pass it lightly over . 
My case was very different . 
I had nothing in my pockets but money and Alan's silver button and being inland bred , I was as much short of knowledge as of means . 
There were , besides , some of the little shells that we call buckies I think periwinkle is the English name . 
Of these two I made my whole diet , devouring them cold and raw as I found them and so hungry was I , that at first they seemed to me delicious . 
Perhaps they were out of season , or perhaps there was something wrong in the sea about my island . 
But at least I had no sooner eaten my first meal than I was seized with giddiness and retching , and lay for a long time no better than dead . 
did better with me , and revived my strength . 
The second day I crossed the island to all sides . 
I had good reasons for my choice . 
But the other reason went deeper . 
, between fear and hope that I might see some human creature coming . 
Now , from a little up the hillside over the bay , I could catch a sight of the great , ancient church and the roofs of the people's houses in Iona . 
It was the same with the roofs of Iona . 
, and saved me from the sense of horror I had whenever I was quite alone with dead rocks , and fowls , and the rain , and the cold sea . 
Charles the Second declared a man could stay outdoors more days in the year in the climate of England than in any other . 
This was very like a king , with a palace at his back and changes of dry clothes . 
But he must have had better luck on his flight from Worcester than I had on that miserable isle . 
It was the height of the summer yet it rained for more than twenty four hours , and did not clear until the afternoon of the third day . 
This was the day of incidents . 
I supposed he must have swum the strait though what should bring any creature to Earraid , was more than I could fancy . 
I now saw there must be a hole , and clapped my hand to the place in a great hurry . 
But this was to lock the stable door after the steed was stolen . 
I had left the shore at Queensferry with near on fifty pounds now I found no more than two guinea pieces and a silver shilling . 
It is true I picked up a third guinea a little after , where it lay shining on a piece of turf . 
This state of my affairs dashed me still further and , indeed my plight on that third morning was truly pitiful . 
And yet the worst was not yet come . 
I was much in the habit of frequenting not that ever I stayed in one place , save when asleep , my misery giving me no rest . 
Indeed , I wore myself down with continual and aimless goings and comings in the rain . 
As soon , however , as the sun came out , I lay down on the top of that rock to dry myself . 
The comfort of the sunshine is a thing I cannot tell . 
It set me thinking hopefully of my deliverance , of which I had begun to despair and I scanned the sea and the Ross with a fresh interest . 
I shouted out , and then fell on my knees on the rock and reached up my hands and prayed to them . 
But the boat never turned aside , and flew on , right before my eyes , for Iona . 
I could not believe such wickedness , and ran along the shore from rock to rock , crying on them piteously . 
even after they were out of reach of my voice , I still cried and waved to them and when they were quite gone , I thought my heart would have burst . 
All the time of my troubles I wept only twice . 
Once , when I could not reach the yard , and now , the second time , when these fishers turned a deaf ear to my cries . 
But this time I wept and roared like a wicked child , tearing up the turf with my nails , and grinding my face in the earth . 
If a wish would kill men , those two fishers would never have seen morning , and I should likely have died upon my island . 
When I was a little over my anger , I must eat again , but with such loathing of the mess as I could now scarce control . 
Sure enough , I should have done as well to fast , for my fishes poisoned me again . 
I found my bodily strength run very low . 
But the sun shone , the air was sweet , and what I managed to eat of the shell fish agreed well with me and revived my courage . 
before I observed a boat coming down the Sound , and with her head , as I thought , in my direction . 
I began at once to hope and fear exceedingly for I thought these men might have thought better of their cruelty and be coming back to my assistance . 
But another disappointment , such as yesterday's , was more than I could bear . 
I turned my back , accordingly , upon the sea , and did not look again till I had counted many hundreds . 
The boat was still heading for the island . 
The next time I counted the full thousand , as slowly as I could , my heart beating so as to hurt me . 
And then it was out of all question . 
All this time the boat was coming on and now I was able to perceive it was the same boat and the same two men as yesterday . 
This I knew by their hair , which the one had of a bright yellow and the other black . 
But now there was a third man along with them , who looked to be of a better class . 
As soon as they were come within easy speech , they let down their sail and lay quiet . 
Then he stood up in the boat and addressed me a long while , speaking fast and with many wavings of his hand . 
I told him I had no Gaelic and at this he became very angry , and I began to suspect he thought he was talking English . 
Listening very close , I caught the word whateffer several times but all the rest was Gaelic and might have been Greek and Hebrew for me . 
Whatever , said I , to show him I had caught a word . 
This time I picked out another word , tide . 
Then I had a flash of hope . 
I remembered he was always waving his hand towards the mainland of the Ross . 
Do you mean when the tide is out ? I cried , and could not finish . 
Yes , yes , said he . 
, leaped back the way I had come , from one stone to another , and set off running across the isle as I had never run before . 
if I had sat down to think , instead of raging at my fate , must have soon guessed the secret , and got free . 
It was no wonder the fishers had not understood me . 
The wonder was rather that they had ever guessed my pitiful illusion , and taken the trouble to come back . 
I had starved with cold and hunger on that island for close upon one hundred hours . 
But for the fishers , I might have left my bones there , in pure folly . 
I have seen wicked men and fools , a great many of both and I believe they both get paid in the end but the fools first . 
There may be roads for them that know that country well but for my part I had no better guide than my own nose , and no other landmark than Ben More . 
It was low and longish , roofed with turf and built of unmortared stones and on a mound in front of it , an old gentleman sat smoking his pipe in the sun . 
With what little English he had , he gave me to understand that my shipmates had got safe ashore , and had broken bread in that very house on the day after . 
Ah , said I , and he would have a feathered hat ? He told me , no , that he was bareheaded like myself . 
This set me smiling , partly because my friend was safe , partly to think of his vanity in dress . 
And then the old gentleman clapped his hand to his brow , and cried out that I must be the lad with the silver button . 
Why , yes ! said I , in some wonder . 
Well , then , said the old gentleman , I have a word for you , that you are to follow your friend to his country , by Torosay . 
He then asked me how I had fared , and I told him my tale . 
heard me all through with nothing but gravity and pity . 
and presented me before his wife , as if she had been the Queen and I a duke . 
brewed me a strong punch out of their country spirit . 
Thought I to myself If these are the wild Highlanders , I could wish my own folk wilder . 
I not only started late , but I must have wandered nearly half the time . 
True , I met plenty of people , grubbing in little miserable fields that would not keep a cat , or herding little kine about the bigness of asses . 
And here again I marked a difference from my own part of the country . 
and would give no change . 
To be sure , this was no concern of mine , except in so far as it entertained me by the way . 
not very anxious to place it at my service . 
I slept uneasily that night , fearing I should be robbed but I might have spared myself the pain for my host was no robber , only miserably poor and a great cheat . 
The odd shilling he kept for himself , protesting he could ill afford to have so great a sum of money lying locked up . 
, who had been a witness to our bargain and to my payment of the five shillings . 
only for a worse disappointment . 
I care very little for that , said I , since you are going with me . 
The impudent cheat answered me in the Gaelic that he had no English . 
My fine fellow , I said , I know very well your English comes and goes . 
Tell me what will bring it back ? Is it more money you wish ? Five shillings mair , said he , and hersel' will bring ye there . 
I was now red hot . 
At that , forgetting everything but my anger , I ran in upon him , put aside his knife with my left , and struck him in the mouth with the right . 
I was a strong lad and very angry , and he but a little man and he went down before me heavily . 
By good luck , his knife flew out of his hand as he fell . 
I picked up both that and his brogues , wished him a good morning , and set off upon my way , leaving him barefoot and disarmed . 
I chuckled to myself as I went , being sure I was done with that rogue , for a variety of reasons . 
In about half an hour of walk , I overtook a great , ragged man , moving pretty fast but feeling before him with a staff . 
He was quite blind , and told me he was a catechist , which should have put me at my ease . 
To carry such a thing meant a fine of fifteen pounds sterling upon a first offence , and transportation to the colonies upon a second . 
Nor could I quite see why a religious teacher should go armed , or what a blind man could be doing with a pistol . 
I told him about my guide , for I was proud of what I had done , and my vanity for once got the heels of my prudence . 
Was it too much ? I asked , a little faltering . 
Too much ! cries he . 
Why , I will guide you to Torosay myself for a dram of brandy . 
And give you the great pleasure of my company in the bargain . 
I said I did not see how a blind man could be a guide but at that he laughed aloud , and said his stick was eyes enough for an eagle . 
In the Isle of Mull , at least , says he , where I know every stone and heather bush by mark of head . 
I had to own he was right in every feature , and told my wonder . 
Ha ! says he , that's nothing . 
I told him I had nothing of the sort , and gave him a wider berth . 
If he had known , his pistol stuck at that time quite plainly out of his pocket , and I could see the sun twinkle on the steel of the butt . 
But by the better luck for me , he knew nothing , thought all was covered , and lied on in the dark . 
, and all the time he kept edging up to me and I avoiding him . 
We were now upon a sort of green cattle track which crossed the hills towards Torosay , and we kept changing sides upon that like ancers in a reel . 
He became at once very polite , and after trying to soften me for some time , but quite in vain , he cursed me once more in Gaelic and took himself off . 
I watched him striding along , through bog and brier , tapping with his stick , until he turned the end of a hill and disappeared in the next hollow . 
Then I struck on again for Torosay , much better pleased to be alone than to travel with that man of learning . 
This was an unlucky day and these two , of whom I had just rid myself , one after the other , were the two worst men I met with in the Highlands . 
, until he was so tipsy that he wept upon my shoulder . 
I tried him , as if by accident , with a sight of Alan's button but it was plain he had never seen or heard of it . 
When I told him of my catechist , he shook his head , and said I was lucky to have got clear off . 
The cream of it is , says I , that he called himself a catechist . 
And why should he not ? says he , when that is what he is . 
It was Maclean of Duart gave it to him because he was blind . 
much nearer a hundred , in four days and with little fatigue . 
Indeed I was by far in better heart and health of body at the end of that long tramp than I had been at the beginning . 
CHAPTER XVI THE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON ACROSS MORVEN There is a regular ferry from Torosay to Kinlochaline on the mainland . 
Both shores of the Sound are in the country of the strong clan of the Macleans , and the people that passed the ferry with me were almost all of that clan . 
In the crowded boat this was of course impossible , and the passage was a very slow affair . 
There was no wind , and as the boat was wretchedly equipped , we could pull but two oars on one side , and one on the other . 
The men gave way , however , with a good will , the passengers taking spells to help them , and the whole company giving the time in Gaelic boat songs . 
But there was one melancholy part . 
Then I understood this was an emigrant ship bound for the American colonies . 
We put the ferry boat alongside , and the exiles leaned over the bulwarks , weeping and reaching out their hands to my fellow passengers , among whom they counted some near friends . 
in the midst of this crying and confusion , came to the side and begged us to depart . 
were highly affecting even to myself . 
At Kinlochaline I got Neil Roy upon one side on the beach , and said I made sure he was one of Appin's men . 
And what for no ? said he . 
I am seeking somebody , said I and it comes in my mind that you will have news of him . 
Alan Breck Stewart is his name . 
And very foolishly , instead of showing him the button , I sought to pass a shilling in his hand . 
At this he drew back . 
I am very much affronted , he said and this is not the way that one shentleman should behave to another at all . 
I saw I had gone the wrong way to work , and without wasting time upon apologies , showed him the button lying in the hollow of my palm . 
that I had never dreamed he would set up to be a gentleman until he told me so . 
Neil on his part had no wish to prolong his dealings with me , only to fulfil his orders and be done with it and he made haste to give me my route . 
There was a good deal of ferrying , as you hear the sea in all this part running deep into the mountains and winding about their roots . 
It makes the country strong to hold and difficult to travel , but full of prodigious wild and dreadful prospects . 
The inn at Kinlochaline was the most beggarly vile place that ever pigs were styed in , full of smoke , vermin , and silent Highlanders . 
I was not only discontented with my lodging , but with myself for my mismanagement of Neil , and thought I could hardly be worse off . 
when a thunderstorm came close by , the springs broke in a little hill on which the inn stood , and one end of the house became a running water . 
Indeed , it was one of these he was carrying and reading when we met . 
We fell in company at once , our ways lying together as far as to Kingairloch . 
He seemed moderate blaming Parliament in several points , and especially because they had framed the Act more severely against those who wore the dress than against those who carried weapons . 
He said it was a bad business . 
It's wonderful , said he , where the tenants find the money , for their life is mere starvation . 
are doubtless partly driven to it . 
is half brother to Ardshiel , the captain of the clan and he is a man much looked up to , and drives very hard . 
And then there's one they call Alan Breck Ah ! I cried , what of him ? What of the wind that bloweth where it listeth ? said Henderland . 
He's here and awa here to day and gone to morrow a fair heather cat . 
It's highly possible , said he , sighing . 
But it seems strange ye shouldnae carry it . 
However , as I was saying , this Alan Breck is a bold , desperate customer , and well kent to be James's right hand . 
His life is forfeit already he would boggle at naething and maybe , if a tenant body was to hang back he would get a dirk in his wame . 
You make a poor story of it all , Mr. Henderland , said I. If it is all fear upon both sides , I care to hear no more of it . 
Na , said Mr. Henderland , but there's love too , and self denial that should put the like of you and me to shame . 
There's something fine about it no perhaps Christian , but humanly fine . 
Even Alan Breck , by all that I hear , is a chield to be respected . 
Ay , ay , we might take a lesson by them . 
Ye'll perhaps think I've been too long in the Hielands ? he added , smiling to me . 
I told him not at all that I had seen much to admire among the Highlanders and if he came to that , Mr. Campbell himself was a Highlander . 
Ay , said he , that's true . 
And what is the King's agent about ? I asked . 
Colin Campbell ? says Henderland . 
and had the proceedings stayed . 
And then Colin Campbell cam' in again , and had the upper hand before the Barons of Exchequer . 
And now they tell me the first of the tenants are to flit to morrow . 
It's to begin at Duror under James's very windows , which doesnae seem wise by my humble way of it . 
Do you think they'll fight ? I asked . 
Well , says Henderland , they're disarmed or supposed to be for there's still a good deal of cold iron lying by in quiet places . 
And then Colin Campbell has the sogers coming . 
But for all that , if I was his lady wife , I wouldnae be well pleased till I got him home again . 
They're queer customers , the Appin Stewarts . 
I asked if they were worse than their neighbours . 
No they , said he . 
And that's the worst part of it . 
, it's my belief that if he escapes the one lot , he'll get his death by the other . 
, proposed that I should make a short stage , and lie the night in his house a little beyond Kingairloch . 
Accordingly we shook hands upon the bargain , and came in the afternoon to a small house , standing alone by the shore of the Linnhe Loch . 
he burst rudely past me , dashed into the room , caught up a jar and a small horn spoon , and began ladling snuff into his nose in most excessive quantities . 
Then he had a hearty fit of sneezing , and looked round upon me with a rather silly smile . 
It's a vow I took , says he . 
I took a vow upon me that I wouldnae carry it . 
Doubtless it's a great privation but when I think upon the martyrs , not only to the Scottish Covenant but to other points of Christianity , I think shame to mind it . 
he took a grave face and said he had a duty to perform by Mr. Campbell , and that was to inquire into my state of mind towards God . 
I was inclined to smile at him since the business of the snuff but he had not spoken long before he brought the tears into my eyes . 
But at last he was so earnest with me that I thought it the more mannerly part to let him have his way , and so left him poorer than myself . 
It was near noon before we set out a dark day with clouds , and the sun shining upon little patches . 
It seemed a hard country , this of Appin , for people to care as much about as Alan did . 
There was but one thing to mention . 
A little after we had started , the sun shone upon a little moving clump of scarlet close in along the water side to the north . 
It was much of the same red as soldiers' coats every now and then , too , there came little sparks and lightnings , as though the sun had struck upon bright steel . 
At last we came so near the point of land at the entering in of Loch Leven that I begged to be set on shore . 
in Alan's country of Appin . 
This was a wood of birches , growing on a steep , craggy side of a mountain that overhung the loch . 
Here I was not only troubled by a cloud of stinging midges , but far more by the doubts of my mind . 
The way was in this part so rough and narrow that they came single and led their horses by the reins . 
The second , by his decent black garb and white wig , I correctly took to be a lawyer . 
hanging at the saddle bow as was often enough the custom with luxurious travellers in that part of the country . 
As for the fourth , who brought up the tail , I had seen his like before , and knew him at once to be a sheriff's officer . 
to go through with my adventure and when the first came alongside of me , I rose up from the bracken and asked him the way to Aucharn . 
Glenure , said the other , this is an ill subject for jesting . 
These two had now drawn close up and were gazing at me , while the two followers had halted about a stone cast in the rear . 
And what seek ye in Aucharn ? said Colin Roy Campbell of Glenure , him they called the Red Fox for he it was that I had stopped . 
Why , very well said , replies the Factor . 
I am King's Factor upon several of these estates , and have twelve files of soldiers at my back . 
I have heard a waif word in the country , said I , a little nettled , that you were a hard man to drive . 
He still kept looking at me , as if in doubt . 
Well , said he , at last , your tongue is bold but I am no unfriend to plainness . 
If ye had asked me the way to the door of James Stewart on any other day but this , I would have set ye right and bidden ye God speed . 
But to day eh , Mungo ? And he turned again to look at the lawyer . 
But just as he turned there came the shot of a firelock from higher up the hill and with the very sound of it Glenure fell upon the road . 
O , I am dead ! he cried , several times over . 
The lawyer had caught him up and held him in his arms , the servant standing over and clasping his hands . 
And now the wounded man looked from one to another with scared eyes , and there was a change in his voice , that went to the heart . 
Take care of yourselves , says he . 
He tried to open his clothes as if to look for the wound , but his fingers slipped on the buttons . 
With that he gave a great sigh , his head rolled on his shoulder , and he passed away . 
The sheriff's officer had run back at the first sound of the shot , to hasten the coming of the soldiers . 
At last the lawyer laid down the dead man in his blood upon the road , and got to his own feet with a kind of stagger . 
He was a big man , in a black coat , with metal buttons , and carried a long fowling piece . 
I see him ! At that the murderer gave a little , quick look over his shoulder , and began to run . 
All this time I had been running on my side , and had got a good way up , when a voice cried upon me to stand . 
I was at the edge of the upper wood , and so now , when I halted and looked back , I saw all the open part of the hill below me . 
Why should I come back ? I cried . 
Come you on ! Ten pounds if ye take that lad ! cried the lawyer . 
He was posted here to hold us in talk . 
my heart came in my mouth with quite a new kind of terror . 
Indeed , it is one thing to stand the danger of your life , and quite another to run the peril of both life and character . 
The thing , besides , had come so suddenly , like thunder out of a clear sky , that I was all amazed and helpless . 
The soldiers began to spread , some of them to run , and others to put up their pieces and cover me and still I stood . 
Jock in here among the trees , said a voice close by . 
Indeed , I scarce knew what I was doing , but I obeyed and as I did so , I heard the firelocks bang and the balls whistle in the birches . 
Just inside the shelter of the trees I found Alan Breck standing , with a fishing rod . 
Now we ran among the birches now stooping behind low humps upon the mountain side now crawling on all fours among the heather . 
The pace was deadly my heart seemed bursting against my ribs and I had neither time to think nor breath to speak with . 
Quarter of an hour later , Alan stopped , clapped down flat in the heather , and turned to me . 
Now , said he , it's earnest . 
Do as I do , for your life . 
My own sides so ached , my head so swam , my tongue so hung out of my mouth with heat and dryness , that I lay beside him like one dead . 
CHAPTER XVIII I TALK WITH ALAN IN THE WOOD OF LETTERMORE Alan was the first to come round . 
He rose , went to the border of the wood , peered out a little , and then returned and sat down . 
Well , said he , yon was a hot burst , David . 
I said nothing , nor so much as lifted my face . 
Are ye still wearied ? he asked again . 
No , said I , still with my face in the bracken no , I am not wearied now , and I can speak . 
You and me must twine , I said . 
I liked you very well , Alan , but your ways are not mine , and they're not God's and the short and the long of it is just that we must twine . 
I will hardly twine from ye , David , without some kind of reason for the same , said Alan , mighty gravely . 
Alan , said I , what is the sense of this ? Ye ken very well yon Campbell man lies in his blood upon the road . 
He was silent for a little then says he , Did ever ye hear tell of the story of the Man and the Good People ? by which he meant the fairies . 
No , said I , nor do I want to hear it . 
With your permission , Mr. Balfour , I will tell it you , whatever , says Alan . 
The name of this rock is called the Skerryvore , and it's not far from where we suffered ship wreck . 
So when the man woke , there was a poke beside him and something into the inside of it that moved . 
I am thinking to myself , Mr. Balfour , that you and the man are very much alike . 
Do you mean you had no hand in it ? cried I , sitting up . 
I thank God for that ! cried I , and offered him my hand . 
He did not appear to see it . 
And here is a great deal of work about a Campbell ! said he . 
But the temptation and the act are different , I thank God again for that . 
We may all be tempted but to take a life in cold blood , Alan ! And I could say no more for the moment . 
And do you know who did it ? I added . 
Do you know that man in the black coat ? I have nae clear mind about his coat , said Alan cunningly , but it sticks in my head that it was blue . 
Blue or black , did ye know him ? said I. I couldnae just conscientiously swear to him , says Alan . 
He gaed very close by me , to be sure , but it's a strange thing that I should just have been tying my brogues . 
Can you swear that you don't know him , Alan ? I cried , half angered , half in a mind to laugh at his evasions . 
Not yet , says he but I've a grand memory for forgetting , David . 
And yet there was one thing I saw clearly , said I and that was , that you exposed yourself and me to draw the soldiers . 
It's very likely , said Alan and so would any gentleman . 
You and me were innocent of that transaction . 
The better reason , since we were falsely suspected , that we should get clear , I cried . 
The innocent should surely come before the guilty . 
Them that havenae dipped their hands in any little difficulty , should be very mindful of the case of them that have . 
And that is the good Christianity . 
, I think we would be a good deal obliged to him oursel's if he would draw the soldiers . 
When it came to this , I gave Alan up . 
Mr. Henderland's words came back to me that we ourselves might take a lesson by these wild Highlanders . 
Well , here I had taken mine . 
Alan's morals were all tail first but he was ready to give his life for them , such as they were . 
Alan , said I , I'll not say it's the good Christianity as I understand it , but it's good enough . 
And here I offer ye my hand for the second time . 
Whereupon he gave me both of his , saying surely I had cast a spell upon him , for he could forgive me anything . 
O ! says I , willing to give him a little lesson , I have no fear of the justice of my country . 
As if this was your country ! said he . 
Or as if ye would be tried here , in a country of Stewarts ! It's all Scotland , said I. Man , I whiles wonder at ye , said Alan . 
This is a Campbell that's been killed . 
sitting cocking on the bench . 
Justice , David ? The same justice , by all the world , as Glenure found awhile ago at the roadside . 
was yet a wise and honest nobleman . 
Hoot ! said Alan , the man's a Whig , nae doubt but I would never deny he was a good chieftain to his clan . 
At this I did at last laugh out aloud , when to my surprise , Alan joined in , and laughed as merrily as myself . 
Na , na , said he , we're in the Hielands , David and when I tell ye to run , take my word and run . 
Nae doubt it's a hard thing to skulk and starve in the Heather , but it's harder yet to lie shackled in a red coat prison . 
Besides , Alan made so sure there would be no question of justice in the matter , that I began to be afraid he might be right . 
and took away my appetite for courts of justice . 
I'll chance it , Alan , said I. I'll go with you . 
But mind you , said Alan , it's no small thing . 
Ye maun lie bare and hard , and brook many an empty belly . 
Your bed shall be the moorcock's , and your life shall be like the hunted deer's , and ye shall sleep with your hand upon your weapons . 
Ay , man , ye shall taigle many a weary foot , or we get clear ! I tell ye this at the start , for it's a life that I ken well . 
But if ye ask what other chance ye have , I answer Nane . 
Either take to the heather with me , or else hang . 
And that's a choice very easily made , said I and we shook hands upon it . 
And now let's take another keek at the red coats , says Alan , and he led me to the north eastern fringe of the wood . 
Looking out between the trees , we could see a great side of mountain , running down exceeding steep into the waters of the loch . 
Alan watched them , smiling to himself . 
When she had struck first , it had been bows on , so that the stern had hitherto been lowest . 
It took the colour out of Alan's face , even to tell what followed . 
It was seven against one in that part of the shore there was no rock that Alan could set his back to and the sailors began to spread out and come behind him . 
And then , said Alan , the little man with the red head I havenae mind of the name that he is called . 
That's none such an entirely bad little man , yon little man with the red head , said Alan . 
He has some spunks of decency . 
Well , said I , he was kind to me in his way . 
Well , I would think so , says I for he was as keen as any of the rest at the beginning . 
But how did Hoseason take it ? It sticks in my mind that he would take it very ill , says Alan . 
But the little man cried to me to run , and indeed I thought it was a good observe , and ran . 
The last that I saw they were all in a knot upon the beach , like folk that were not agreeing very well together . 
What do you mean by that ? said I. Well , the fists were going , said Alan and I saw one man go down like a pair of breeks . 
But I thought it would be better no to wait . 
Ye see there's a strip of Campbells in that end of Mull , which is no good company for a gentleman like me . 
If it hadnae been for that I would have waited and looked for ye mysel' , let alone giving a hand to the little man . 
So , says he , continuing , I set my best foot forward , and whenever I met in with any one I cried out there was a wreck ashore . 
I'm thinking it was a judgment on the clan that the brig went down in the lump and didnae break . 
But it was a very unlucky thing for you , that same for if any wreck had come ashore they would have hunted high and low , and would soon have found ye . 
The way we went was over rough mountainsides and though Alan pushed on with an assured manner , I could by no means see how he directed himself . 
At last , about half past ten of the clock , we came to the top of a brae , and saw lights below us . 
James must have tint his wits , said Alan . 
If this was the soldiers instead of you and me , he would be in a bonny mess . 
But I dare say he'll have a sentry on the road , and he would ken well enough no soldiers would find the way that we came . 
Hereupon he whistled three times , in a particular manner . 
by a tall , handsome man of more than fifty , who cried out to Alan in the Gaelic . 
James Stewart , said Alan , I will ask ye to speak in Scotch , for here is a young gentleman with me that has nane of the other . 
James of the Glens turned to me for a moment , and greeted me courteously enough the next he had turned to Alan . 
This has been a dreadful accident , he cried . 
It will bring trouble on the country . 
And he wrung his hands . 
Hoots ! said Alan , ye must take the sour with the sweet , man . 
While this was going on I looked about me at the servants . 
The faces in the torchlight were like those of people overborne with hurry and panic and though none spoke above his breath , their speech sounded both anxious and angry . 
What's that the lassie has ? he asked . 
We're just setting the house in order , Alan , said James , in his frightened and somewhat fawning way . 
They'll search Appin with candles , and we must have all things straight . 
We're digging the bit guns and swords into the moss , ye see and these , I am thinking , will be your ain French clothes . 
We'll be to bury them , I believe . 
Bury my French clothes ! cried Alan . 
Troth , no ! And he laid hold upon the packet and retired into the barn to shift himself , recommending me in the meanwhile to his kinsman . 
James carried me accordingly into the kitchen , and sat down with me at table , smiling and talking at first in a very hospitable manner . 
At last James could keep his seat no longer , and begged my permission to be so unmannerly as walk about . 
A little after he observed his son burning a paper which he thought should have been kept and at that his excitement burst out so that it was painful to witness . 
He struck the lad repeatedly . 
Are you gone gyte ? he cried . 
they were now grown almost too battered and withered to deserve the name of fine . 
By the time I came back Alan must have told his story for it seemed understood that I was to fly with him , and they were all busy upon our equipment . 
Money , indeed , was lacking . 
This'll no do , said Alan . 
Ye must find a safe bit somewhere near by , said James , and get word sent to me . 
Ye see , ye'll have to get this business prettily off , Alan . 
This is no time to be stayed for a guinea or two . 
They're sure to get wind of ye , sure to seek ye , and by my way of it , sure to lay on ye the wyte of this day's accident . 
If it falls on you , it falls on me that am your near kinsman and harboured ye while ye were in the country . 
And if it comes on me he paused , and bit his fingers , with a white face . 
It would be a painful thing for our friends if I was to hang , said he . 
It would be an ill day for Appin , says Alan . 
It's a day that sticks in my throat , said James . 
O man , man , man man Alan ! you and me have spoken like two fools ! he cried , striking his hand upon the wall so that the house rang again . 
gave me a good word upon that head , if I would only have listened to him . 
But see here , said James , returning to his former manner , if they lay me by the heels , Alan , it's then that you'll be needing the money . 
Do ye see that ? Blame . 
He spoke with a pleading earnestness , taking Alan by the breast of the coat . 
Ay said Alan , I see that . 
And ye'll have to be clear of the country , Alan ay , and clear of Scotland you and your friend from the Lowlands , too . 
For I'll have to paper your friend from the Lowlands . 
Ye see that , Alan say that ye see that ! I thought Alan flushed a bit . 
This is unco hard on me that brought him here , James , said he , throwing his head back . 
It's like making me a traitor ! Now , Alan , man ! cried James . 
And then , after a little pause on both sides , And , Alan , it'll be a jury of Campbells , said he . 
There's one thing , said Alan , musingly , that naebody kens his name . 
Nor yet they shallnae , Alan ! There's my hand on that , cried James , for all the world as if he had really known my name and was foregoing some advantage . 
But just the habit he was in , and what he looked like , and his age , and the like ? I couldnae well do less . 
I wonder at your father's son , cried Alan , sternly . 
Would ye sell the lad with a gift ? Would ye change his clothes and then betray him ? No , no , Alan , said James . 
No , no the habit he took off the habit Mungo saw him in . 
I have but one word to say , said I for to all this dispute I am a perfect stranger . 
But the plain common sense is to set the blame where it belongs , and that is on the man who fired the shot . 
Paper him , as ye call it , set the hunt on him and let honest , innocent folk show their faces in safety . 
, as soon as my back is turned , they will paper me , as they call it , whether I consent or not . 
As for you , Alan , it was no more than your bounden duty , she said . 
And with that she kissed me , and burst once more into such sobbing , that I stood abashed . 
Hoot , hoot , said Alan , looking mighty silly . 
The rallying word of the Campbells . 
Thereupon we said farewell , and set out again , bending somewhat eastwards , in a fine mild dark night , and over much the same broken country as before . 
CHAPTER XX THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER THE ROCKS Sometimes we walked , sometimes ran and as it drew on to morning , walked ever the less and ran the more . 
, the news was received with more of consternation than surprise . 
For all our hurry , day began to come in while we were still far from any shelter . 
It found us in a prodigious valley , strewn with rocks and where ran a foaming river . 
The first peep of morning , then , showed us this horrible place , and I could see Alan knit his brow . 
This is no fit place for you and me , he said . 
This is a place they're bound to watch . 
And with that he ran harder than ever down to the water side , in a part where the river was split in two among three rocks . 
It went through with a horrid thundering that made my belly quake and there hung over the lynn a little mist of spray . 
I had scarce time to measure the distance or to understand the peril before I had followed him , and he had caught and stopped me . 
So there we stood , side by side upon a small rock slippery with spray , a far broader leap in front of us , and the river dinning upon all sides . 
When I saw where I was , there came on me a deadly sickness of fear , and I put my hand over my eyes . 
The same look showed me the water raging by , and the mist hanging in the air and with that I covered my eyes again and shuddered . 
The next minute Alan had set the brandy bottle to my lips , and forced me to drink about a gill , which sent the blood into my head again . 
I bent low on my knees and flung myself forth , with that kind of anger of despair that has sometimes stood me in stead of courage . 
Never a word he said , but set off running again for his life , and I must stagger to my feet and run after him . 
A great rock I have said but by rights it was two rocks leaning together at the top , both some twenty feet high , and at the first sight inaccessible . 
Once there , he let down his leathern girdle and with the aid of that and a pair of shallow footholds in the rock , I scrambled up beside him . 
Then at last Alan smiled . 
Ay said he , now we have a chance and then looking at me with some amusement . 
Ye're no very gleg at the jumping , said he . 
And then there was water there , and water's a thing that dauntons even me . 
No , no , said Alan , it's no you that's to blame , it's me . 
Why , said he , I have proved myself a gomeral this night . 
I have come wanting a water bottle , and here we lie for a long summer's day with naething but neat spirit . 
Ye may think that a small matter but before it comes night , David , ye'll give me news of it . 
I was anxious to redeem my character , and offered , if he would pour out the brandy , to run down and fill the bottle at the river . 
I wouldnae waste the good spirit either , says he . 
It's been a good friend to you this night or in my poor opinion , ye would still be cocking on yon stone . 
that Alan Breck Stewart was perhaps walking quicker than his ordinar' . 
You ! I cried , you were running fit to burst . 
Was I so ? said he . 
Well , then , ye may depend upon it , there was nae time to be lost . 
And now here is enough said gang you to your sleep , lad , and I'll watch . 
I dare say it would be nine in the morning when I was roughly awakened , and found Alan's hand pressed upon my mouth . 
It was now high day , cloudless , and very hot . 
The valley was as clear as in a picture . 
Higher up the glen , where the ground was more open , the chain of posts was continued by horse soldiers , whom we could see in the distance riding to and fro . 
I took but one look at them , and ducked again into my place . 
It was strange indeed to see this valley , which had lain so solitary in the hour of dawn , bristling with arms and dotted with the red coats and breeches . 
Ye see , said Alan , this was what I was afraid of , Davie that they would watch the burn side . 
They began to come in about two hours ago , and , man ! but ye're a grand hand at the sleeping ! We're in a narrow place . 
If they get up the sides of the hill , they could easy spy us with a glass but if they'll only keep in the foot of the valley , we'll do yet . 
The posts are thinner down the water and , come night , we'll try our hand at getting by them . 
And what are we to do till night ? I asked . 
Lie here , says he , and birstle . 
That one good Scotch word , birstle , was indeed the most of the story of the day that we had now to pass . 
The soldiers kept stirring all day in the bottom of the valley , now changing guard , now in patrolling parties hunting among the rocks . 
The tediousness and pain of these hours upon the rock grew only the greater as the day went on the rock getting still the hotter and the sun fiercer . 
There were giddiness , and sickness , and sharp pangs like rheumatism , to be supported . 
At last , about two , it was beyond men's bearing , and there was now temptation to resist , as well as pain to thole . 
As well one death as another , said Alan , and slipped over the edge and dropped on the ground on the shadowy side . 
I followed him at once , and instantly fell all my length , so weak was I and so giddy with that long exposure . 
None came , however , all passing by on the other side so that our rock continued to be our shield even in this new position . 
Presently we began again to get a little strength and as the soldiers were now lying closer along the river side , Alan proposed that we should try a start . 
But the business was the most wearing I had ever taken part in . 
A man had need of a hundred eyes in every part of him , to keep concealed in that uneven country and within cry of so many and scattered sentries . 
By sundown we had made some distance , even by our slow rate of progress , though to be sure the sentry on the rock was still plainly in our view . 
good reason for not making one , it is the chief stand by of those who have taken to the heather . 
upon clouds Alan to make sure of his direction . 
Birches grew there in a thin , pretty wood , which a little farther on was changed into a wood of pines . 
The burn was full of trout the wood of cushat doves on the open side of the mountain beyond , whaups would be always whistling , and cuckoos were plentiful . 
We slept in the cave , making our bed of heather bushes which we cut for that purpose , and covering ourselves with Alan's great coat . 
So , though I could never in the least please my master , I was not altogether displeased with myself . 
In the meanwhile , you are not to suppose that we neglected our chief business , which was to get away . 
Ye're a man of small contrivance , David . 
Then he looked at me a little shyly . 
Could ye lend me my button ? says he . 
It seems a strange thing to ask a gift again , but I own I am laith to cut another . 
not very far from Corrynakiegh , and it has the name of Koalisnacoan . 
There there are living many friends of mine whom I could trust with my life , and some that I am no just so sure of . 
If it was otherwise , I would go down to Koalisnacoan whatever , and trust my life into these people's hands as lightly as I would trust another with my glove . 
But being so ? said I. Being so , said he , I would as lief they didnae see me . 
There's bad folk everywhere , and what's far worse , weak ones . 
A bouman is a tenant who takes stock from the landlord and shares with him the increase . 
So he will say to himsel' , THE CLAN IS NOT TO RISE , BUT THERE IS SOMETHING . 
Then he will see my button , and that was Duncan Stewart's . 
And then he will say to himsel' , THE SON OF DUNCAN IS IN THE HEATHER , AND HAS NEED OF ME . 
Well , said I , it may be . 
But even supposing so , there is a good deal of heather between here and the Forth . 
And that is a very true word , says Alan . 
, ALAN WILL BE LYING IN A WOOD WHICH IS BOTH OF PINES AND BIRCHES . 
Then he will think to himsel' , THAT IS NOT SO VERY RIFE HEREABOUT and then he will come and give us a look up in Corrynakiegh . 
And if he does not , David , the devil may fly away with him , for what I care for he will no be worth the salt to his porridge . 
He would have to go to the school for two three years and it's possible we might be wearied waiting on him . 
So that night Alan carried down his fiery cross and set it in the bouman's window . 
About noon a man was to be spied , straggling up the open side of the mountain in the sun , and looking round him as he came , from under his hand . 
He was a ragged , wild , bearded man , about forty , grossly disfigured with the small pox , and looked both dull and savage . 
would suffer him to speak no Gaelic . 
Alan would have had him carry a message to James but the bouman would hear of no message . 
She was forget it , he said in his screaming voice and would either have a letter or wash his hands of us . 
I thought Alan would be gravelled at that , for we lacked the means of writing in that desert . 
, he sat down and wrote as follows DEAR KINSMAN , Please send the money by the bearer to the place he kens of . 
He seemed less sulky than before , and indeed he was no doubt well pleased to have got to the end of such a dangerous commission . 
It seemed it was noised on all sides that Alan Breck had fired the shot and there was a bill issued for both him and me , with one hundred pounds reward . 
This was all as bad as could be and the little note the bouman had carried us from Mrs. Stewart was of a miserable sadness . 
The money she had sent was all that she could beg or borrow , and she prayed heaven we could be doing with it . 
Lastly , she said , she enclosed us one of the bills in which we were described . 
Alan , said I , you should change your clothes . 
Na , troth ! said Alan , I have nae others . 
For generosity's sake I dare not speak my mind upon this head but I thought of it none the less . 
I thought of it all the more , too , when the bouman brought out a green purse with four guineas in gold , and the best part of another in small change . 
True , it was more than I had . 
But there was no thought of the sort in the honest head of my companion . 
He believed he was serving , helping , and protecting me . 
And now , John Breck , if ye will hand me over my button , this gentleman and me will be for taking the road . 
, began to roll his eyes strangely , and at last said , Her nainsel will loss it , meaning he thought he had lost it . 
Then he took the warmest parting of the bouman . 
For , says he , ye have done very well by me , and set your neck at a venture , and I will always give you the name of a good man . 
struck into another to resume our flight . 
CHAPTER XXII THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER THE MOOR Some seven hours' incessant , hard travelling brought us early in the morning to the end of a range of mountains . 
In front of us there lay a piece of low , broken , desert land , which we must now cross . 
there might have been twenty squadron of dragoons there and we none the wiser . 
David , said Alan , this is the kittle bit . 
Ay , but it isnae , said Alan , nor yet the half . 
This is how we stand Appin's fair death to us . 
To the south it's all Campbells , and no to be thought of . 
Well , then , we'll can strike east . 
Well , then , east , ye see , we have the muirs , said Alan . 
Once there , David , it's mere pitch and toss . 
It's no good place , David and I'm free to say , it's worse by daylight than by dark . 
Alan , said I , hear my way of it . 
A wearier looking desert man never saw but at least it was clear of troops , which was our point . 
We went down accordingly into the waste , and began to make our toilsome and devious travel towards the eastern verge . 
Sometimes , for half an hour together , we must crawl from one heather bush to another , as hunters do when they are hard upon the deer . 
Toiling and resting and toiling again , we wore away the morning and about noon lay down in a thick bush of heather to sleep . 
Alan took the first watch and it seemed to me I had scarce closed my eyes before I was shaken up to take the second . 
The last time I woke I seemed to come back from farther away , and thought the sun had taken a great start in the heavens . 
I looked at the sprig of heath , and at that I could have cried aloud for I saw I had betrayed my trust . 
My head was nearly turned with fear and shame and at what I saw , when I looked out around me on the moor , my heart was like dying in my body . 
What are we to do now ? I asked . 
We'll have to play at being hares , said he . 
Do ye see yon mountain ? pointing to one on the north eastern sky . 
Ay , said I. Well , then , says he , let us strike for that . 
Its name is Ben Alder . 
it is a wild , desert mountain full of hills and hollows , and if we can win to it before the morn , we may do yet . 
All the time , too , he kept winding in and out in the lower parts of the moorland where we were the best concealed . 
a blinding , choking dust as fine as smoke . 
Now and then , indeed , where was a big bush of heather , we lay awhile , and panted , and putting aside the leaves , looked back at the dragoons . 
They had not spied us , for they held straight on a half troop , I think , covering about two miles of ground , and beating it mighty thoroughly as they went . 
I had awakened just in time a little later , and we must have fled in front of them , instead of escaping on one side . 
Nothing but the fear of Alan lent me enough of a false kind of courage to continue . 
Yet he seemed in no way dashed in spirits , nor did he at all abate in his activity , so that I was driven , to marvel at the man's endurance . 
At length , in the first gloaming of the night , we heard a trumpet sound , and looking back from among the heather , saw the troop beginning to collect . 
A little after , they had built a fire and camped for the night , about the middle of the waste . 
At this I begged and besought that we might lie down and sleep . 
There shall be no sleep the night ! said Alan . 
From now on , these weary dragoons of yours will keep the crown of the muirland , and none will get out of Appin but winged fowls . 
Alan , I said , it's not the want of will it's the strength that I want . 
If I could , I would but as sure as I'm alive I cannot . 
Very well , then , said Alan . 
I looked to see if he were jesting but no , the little man was in dead earnest and the sight of so much resolution shamed me . 
Lead away ! said I. I'll follow . 
He gave me one look as much as to say , Well done , David ! and off he set again at his top speed . 
with the coming of the night . 
Heavy dew fell and drenched the moor like rain and this refreshed me for a while . 
By what I have read in books , I think few that have held a pen were ever really wearied , or they would write of it more strongly . 
I had no care of my life , neither past nor future , and I scarce remembered there was such a lad as David Balfour . 
But , dear heart have mercy ! what a pair we must have made , going double like old grandfathers , stumbling like babes , and as white as dead folk . 
I say Alan did as I did . 
It fell in this way . 
I heard Alan and another whispering in the Gaelic and what they said was all one to me . 
Then the dirks were put up , our weapons were taken away , and we were set face to face , sitting in the heather . 
They are Cluny's men , said Alan . 
We couldnae have fallen better . 
We're just to bide here with these , which are his out sentries , till they can get word to the chief of my arrival . 
Even tired as I was , the surprise of what I heard half wakened me . 
What , I cried , is Cluny still here ? Ay , is he so ! said Alan . 
Still in his own country and kept by his own clan . 
King George can do no more . 
I think I would have asked farther , but Alan gave me the put off . 
I am rather wearied , he said , and I would like fine to get a sleep . 
And without more words , he rolled on his face in a deep heather bush , and seemed to sleep at once . 
There was no such thing possible for me . 
For my part , it made me sick to hear of eating . 
I had been dead heavy before , and now I felt a kind of dreadful lightness , which would not suffer me to walk . 
With all that , a sort of horror of despair sat on my mind , so that I could have wept at my own helplessness . 
I saw Alan knitting his brows at me , and supposed it was in anger and that gave me a pang of light headed fear , like what a child may have . 
I remember , too , that I was smiling , and could not stop smiling , hard as I tried for I thought it was out of place at such a time . 
, through a labyrinth of dreary glens and hollows and into the heart of that dismal mountain of Ben Alder . 
CHAPTER XXIII CLUNY'S CAGE We came at last to the foot of an exceeding steep wood , which scrambled up a craggy hillside , and was crowned by a naked precipice . 
It's here , said one of the guides , and we struck up hill . 
The trees clung upon the slope , like sailors on the shrouds of a ship , and their trunks were like the rounds of a ladder , by which we mounted . 
Quite at the top , and just before the rocky face of the cliff sprang above the foliage , we found that strange house which was known in the country as Cluny's Cage . 
The trunks of several trees had been wattled across , the intervals strengthened with stakes , and the ground behind this barricade levelled up with earth to make the floor . 
A tree , which grew out from the hillside , was the living centre beam of the roof . 
The walls were of wattle and covered with moss . 
The whole house had something of an egg shape and it half hung , half stood in that steep , hillside thicket , like a wasp's nest in a green hawthorn . 
Within , it was large enough to shelter five or six persons with some comfort . 
There he soon died and it is strange to reflect that he may have regretted his Cage upon Ben Alder . 
When we came to the door he was seated by his rock chimney , watching a gillie about some cookery . 
He was mighty plainly habited , with a knitted nightcap drawn over his ears , and smoked a foul cutty pipe . 
For all that he had the manners of a king , and it was quite a sight to see him rise out of his place to welcome us . 
Well , Mr. Stewart , come awa' , sir ! said he , and bring in your friend that as yet I dinna ken the name of . 
And how is yourself , Cluny ? said Alan . 
I hope ye do brawly , sir . 
And I am proud to see ye , and to present to ye my friend the Laird of Shaws , Mr. David Balfour . 
Alan never referred to my estate without a touch of a sneer , when we were alone but with strangers , he rang the words out like a herald . 
Step in by , the both of ye , gentlemen , says Cluny . 
We'll take a dram for luck , and as soon as this handless man of mine has the collops ready , we'll dine and take a hand at the cartes as gentlemen should . 
And so here's a toast to ye The Restoration ! Thereupon we all touched glasses and drank . 
I am sure I wished no ill to King George and if he had been there himself in proper person , it's like he would have done as I did . 
It was certainly a strange place , and we had a strange host . 
In his long hiding , Cluny had grown to have all manner of precise habits , like those of an old maid . 
With each of them , as he entered , he ceremoniously shook hands , both parties touching their bonnets at the same time in a military manner . 
and bade us draw in to our meal . 
Indeed , there were mair dragoons than lemons in my country in the year forty six . 
I do not know if the collops were truly very good , but my heart rose against the sight of them , and I could eat but little . 
By these , I gathered the Prince was a gracious , spirited boy , like the son of a race of polite kings , but not so wise as Solomon . 
To be sure , I might have pleaded my fatigue , which was excuse enough but I thought it behoved that I should bear a testimony . 
Cluny stopped mingling the cards . 
What in deil's name is this ? says he . 
What kind of Whiggish , canting talk is this , for the house of Cluny Macpherson ? I will put my hand in the fire for Mr. Balfour , says Alan . 
He is an honest and a mettle gentleman , and I would have ye bear in mind who says it . 
I bear a king's name , says he , cocking his hat and I and any that I call friend are company for the best . 
But the gentleman is tired , and should sleep if he has no mind to the cartes , it will never hinder you and me . 
And I'm fit and willing , sir , to play ye any game that ye can name . 
Sir , says Cluny , in this poor house of mine I would have you to ken that any gentleman may follow his pleasure . 
If your friend would like to stand on his head , he is welcome . 
And if either he , or you , or any other man , is not preceesely satisfied , I will be proud to step outside with him . 
I had no will that these two friends should cut their throats for my sake . 
Say nae mair , say nae mair , said Cluny , and pointed me to a bed of heather in a corner of the Cage . 
For all that he was displeased enough , looked at me askance , and grumbled when he looked . 
I knew well enough I was ill , and that was all I cared about . 
I paid little heed while I lay in this poor pass . 
It looked strange enough , to see all this wealth in a nest upon a cliff side , wattled about growing trees . 
And even then , I thought it seemed deep water for Alan to be riding , who had no better battle horse than a green purse and a matter of five pounds . 
The luck , it seems , changed on the second day . 
About noon I was wakened as usual for dinner , and as usual refused to eat , and was given a dram with some bitter infusion which the barber had prescribed . 
The sun was shining in at the open door of the Cage , and this dazzled and offended me . 
Cluny sat at the table , biting the pack of cards . 
Alan had stooped over the bed , and had his face close to my eyes to which , troubled as they were with the fever , it seemed of the most shocking bigness . 
He asked me for a loan of my money . 
What for ? said I. O , just for a loan , said he . 
But why ? I repeated . 
When I returned , he and Alan had laid the cards aside , and were questioning a gillie and the chief turned about and spoke to me in the Gaelic . 
I have no Gaelic , sir , said I. Now since the card question , everything I said or did had the power of annoying Cluny . 
Your name has more sense than yourself , then , said he angrily . 
But the point is this . 
Alan , besides , had an odd look , like a man not very well content and I began to have a strong misgiving . 
I do not know if I am as well as I should be , said I , looking at Alan but the little money we have has a long way to carry us . 
Alan took his under lip into his mouth , and looked upon the ground . 
David , says he at last , I've lost it there's the naked truth . 
My money too ? said I. Your money too , says Alan , with a groan . 
Ye shouldnae have given it me . 
I'm daft when I get to the cartes . 
Hoot toot ! hoot toot ! said Cluny . 
It was all daffing it's all nonsense . 
Of course you'll have your money back again , and the double of it , if ye'll make so free with me . 
It would be a singular thing for me to keep it . 
Alan said nothing , only looked on the ground . 
And now , sir , says I , I must first acknowledge your generosity . 
Nonsensical nonsense ! cries Cluny . 
There was a little silence , in which Cluny seemed always as if he was about to speak , but said nothing . 
All the time he grew redder and redder in the face . 
I am a young man , said I , and I ask your advice . 
Advise me as you would your son . 
It's rather hard on me , too , Mr. Balfour , said Cluny , and ye give me very much the look of a man that has entrapped poor people to their hurt . 
But I am still waiting your opinion . 
I am sure if ever Cluny hated any man it was David Balfour . 
He looked me all over with a warlike eye , and I saw the challenge at his lips . 
But either my youth disarmed him , or perhaps his own sense of justice . 
Certainly it was a mortifying matter for all concerned , and not least Cluny the more credit that he took it as he did . 
Mr. Balfour , said he , I think you are too nice and covenanting , but for all that you have the spirit of a very pretty gentleman . 
Doubtless it was a great relief to walk disencumbered and perhaps without that relief , and the consequent sense of liberty and lightness , I could not have walked at all . 
The thought of a separation ran always the stronger in my mind and the more I approved of it , the more ashamed I grew of my approval . 
True , I was ready to share it with him but it made me rage to see him count upon my readiness . 
These were the two things uppermost in my mind and I could open my mouth upon neither without black ungenerosity . 
So I did the next worst , and said nothing , nor so much as looked once at my companion , save with the tail of my eye . 
David , says he , this is no way for two friends to take a small accident . 
I have to say that I'm sorry and so that's said . 
And now if you have anything , ye'd better say it . 
O , says I , I have nothing . 
He seemed disconcerted at which I was meanly pleased . 
Never , says he but ye ken very well that ye've done worse . 
Are we to part ? Ye said so once before . 
This pierced me like a sword , and seemed to lay bare my private disloyalty . 
Alan Breck ! I cried and then Do you think I am one to turn my back on you in your chief need ? You dursn't say it to my face . 
My whole conduct's there to give the lie to it . 
There are things between us that I can never forget , even if you can . 
I will only say this to ye , David , said Alan , very quietly , that I have long been owing ye my life , and now I owe ye money . 
Ye should try to make that burden light for me . 
This ought to have touched me , and in a manner it did , but the wrong manner . 
I felt I was behaving , badly and was now not only angry with Alan , but angry with myself in the bargain and it made me the more cruel . 
You asked me to speak , said I. Well , then , I will . 
You own yourself that you have done me a disservice I have had to swallow an affront I have never reproached you , I never named the thing till you did . 
And now you blame me , cried I , because I cannae laugh and sing as if I was glad to be affronted . 
The next thing will be that I'm to go down upon my knees and thank you for it ! Ye should think more of others , Alan Breck . 
By your own way of it , it was you that was to blame then it shouldnae be you to seek the quarrel . 
Aweel , said Alan , say nae mair . 
And we fell back into our former silence and came to our journey's end , and supped , and lay down to sleep , without another word . 
The gillie put us across Loch Rannoch in the dusk of the next day , and gave us his opinion as to our best route . 
Alan was little pleased with a route which led us through the country of his blood foes , the Glenorchy Campbells . 
that we should nowhere be so little troubled as in a country of the Campbells . 
Alan gave way at last , but with only half a heart . 
It's one of the dowiest countries in Scotland , said he . 
There's naething there that I ken , but heath , and crows , and Campbells . 
By day , we lay and slept in the drenching heather by night , incessantly clambered upon break neck hills and among rude crags . 
We often wandered we were often so involved in fog , that we must lie quiet till it lightened . 
A fire was never to be thought of . 
Our only food was drammach and a portion of cold meat that we had carried from the Cage and as for drink , Heaven knows we had no want of water . 
This was a dreadful time , rendered the more dreadful by the gloom of the weather and the country . 
The sound of an infinite number of rivers came up from all round . 
In this steady rain the springs of the mountain were broken up every glen gushed water like a cistern every stream was in high spate , and had filled and overflowed its channel . 
During our night tramps , it was solemn to hear the voice of them below in the valleys , now booming like thunder , now with an angry cry . 
to see him cross himself in the manner of the Catholics . 
During all these horrid wanderings we had no familiarity , scarcely even that of speech . 
The truth is that I was sickening for my grave , which is my best excuse . 
But besides that I was of an unforgiving disposition from my birth , slow to take offence , slower to forget it , and now incensed both against my companion and myself . 
For the best part of two days he was unweariedly kind silent , indeed , but always ready to help , and always hoping that my displeasure would blow by . 
Ye had better let me take your pack , said he , for perhaps the ninth time since we had parted from the scout beside Loch Rannoch . 
I do very well , I thank you , said I , as cold as ice . 
I'll not offer it again , he said . 
I'm not a patient man , David . 
I never said you were , said I , which was exactly the rude , silly speech of a boy of ten . 
Alan made no answer at the time , but his conduct answered for him . 
The third night we were to pass through the western end of the country of Balquhidder . 
It came clear and cold , with a touch in the air like frost , and a northerly wind that blew the clouds away and made the stars bright . 
my very clothes abhorred me . 
I was dead weary , deadly sick and full of pains and shiverings the chill of the wind went through me , and the sound of it confused my ears . 
In this poor state I had to bear from my companion something in the nature of a persecution . 
He spoke a good deal , and never without a taunt . 
Whig was the best name he had to give me . 
I knew it was my own doing , and no one else's but I was too miserable to repent . 
Alan would repent then , I thought he would remember , when I was dead , how much he owed me , and the remembrance would be torture . 
And at each of Alan's taunts , I hugged myself . 
Flushes of heat went over me , and then spasms of shuddering . 
The stitch in my side was hardly bearable . 
He had just called me Whig . 
Mr. Stewart , said I , in a voice that quivered like a fiddle string , you are older than I am , and should know your manners . 
Alan had stopped opposite to me , his hat cocked , his hands in his breeches pockets , his head a little on one side . 
He listened , smiling evilly , as I could see by the starlight and when I had done he began to whistle a Jacobite air . 
Why do ye take that air , Mr. Stewart ? said I. Is that to remind me you have been beaten on both sides ? The air stopped on Alan's lips . 
But it's time these manners ceased , I continued and I mean you shall henceforth speak civilly of my King and my good friends the Campbells . 
I am a Stewart began Alan . 
O ! says I , I ken ye bear a king's name . 
Do you know that you insult me ? said Alan , very low . 
I am sorry for that , said I , for I am not done and if you distaste the sermon , I doubt the pirliecue will please you as little . 
You have been chased in the field by the grown men of my party it seems a poor kind of pleasure to out face a boy . 
Both the Campbells and the Whigs have beaten you you have run before them like a hare . 
It behoves you to speak of them as of your betters . 
Alan stood quite still , the tails of his great coat clapping behind him in the wind . 
This is a pity he said at last . 
There are things said that cannot be passed over . 
I never asked you to , said I. I am as ready as yourself . 
I am no blower and boaster like some that I could name . 
Come on ! And drawing my sword , I fell on guard as Alan himself had taught me . 
Are ye daft ? I cannae draw upon ye , David . 
It's the bare truth , he said , and drew his sword . 
But before I could touch his blade with mine , he had thrown it from him and fallen to the ground . 
Na , na , he kept saying , na , na I cannae , I cannae . 
At this the last of my anger oozed all out of me and I found myself only sick , and sorry , and blank , and wondering at myself . 
At the same time , the sickness that hung upon me seemed to redouble , and the pang in my side was like a sword for sharpness . 
I thought I must have swooned where I stood . 
This it was that gave me a thought . 
I put my pride away from me . 
Alan ! I said if ye cannae help me , I must just die here . 
He started up sitting , and looked at me . 
It's true , said I. I'm by with it . 
O , let me get into the bield of a house I'll can die there easier . 
I had no need to pretend whether I chose or not , I spoke in a weeping voice that would have melted a heart of stone . 
Can ye walk ? asked Alan . 
No , said I , not without help . 
This last hour my legs have been fainting under me I've a stitch in my side like a red hot iron I cannae breathe right . 
If I die , ye'll can forgive me , Alan ? In my heart , I liked ye fine even when I was the angriest . 
Wheesht , wheesht ! cried Alan . 
Dinna say that ! David man , ye ken He shut his mouth upon a sob . 
Let me get my arm about ye , he continued that's the way ! Now lean upon me hard . 
Gude kens where there's a house ! We're in Balwhidder , too there should be no want of houses , no , nor friends' houses here . 
Do ye gang easier so , Davie ? Ay said I , I can be doing this way and I pressed his arm with my hand . 
Again he came near sobbing . 
O , but my stitch is sore ! Is there nae house ? I'll find a house to ye , David , he said , stoutly . 
We'll follow down the burn , where there's bound to be houses . 
I could have laughed , had not my stitch caught me so hard but if I had laughed , I think I must have wept too . 
Alan , cried I , what makes ye so good to me ? What makes ye care for such a thankless fellow ? 'Deed , and I don't , know said Alan . 
Here were Stewarts and Maclarens , which came to the same thing , for the Maclarens followed Alan's chief in war , and made but one clan with Appin . 
Here , too , were many of that old , proscribed , nameless , red handed clan of the Macgregors . 
They had always been ill considered , and now worse than ever , having credit with no side or party in the whole country of Scotland . 
Chance served us very well for it was a household of Maclarens that we found , where Alan was not only welcome for his name's sake but known by reputation . 
Here then I was got to bed without delay , and a doctor fetched , who found me in a sorry plight . 
He hid by day in a hole of the braes under a little wood and at night , when the coast was clear , would come into the house to visit me . 
spreading the news among their neighbours . 
The bills , too , had now been printed . 
Duncan Dhu and the rest that knew that I had come there in Alan's company , could have entertained no doubt of who I was and many others must have had their guess . 
So it was , at least . 
There was but one thing happened worth narrating and that is the visit I had of Robin Oig , one of the sons of the notorious Rob Roy . 
by force yet he stepped about Balquhidder like a gentleman in his own walled policy . 
Duncan had time to pass me word of who it was and we looked at one another in concern . 
in a proper light , came to my bedside and bowed . 
I am given to know , sir , says he , that your name is Balfour . 
They call me David Balfour , said I , at your service . 
No , sir , said I , a little alarmed nor yet of your father , Macgregor Campbell . 
And I sat up and bowed in bed for I thought best to compliment him , in case he was proud of having had an outlaw to his father . 
But what I am come to say , sir , he went on , is this . 
should be so nice as to the descent of his acquaintances . 
Just in the door , he met Alan coming in and the two drew back and looked at each other like strange dogs . 
They were neither of them big men , but they seemed fairly to swell out with pride . 
Each wore a sword , and by a movement of his haunch , thrust clear the hilt of it , so that it might be the more readily grasped and the blade drawn . 
Mr. Stewart , I am thinking , says Robin . 
Troth , Mr. Macgregor , it's not a name to be ashamed of , answered Alan . 
I did not know ye were in my country , sir , says Robin . 
It sticks in my mind that I am in the country of my friends the Maclarens , says Alan . 
That's a kittle point , returned the other . 
There may be two words to say to that . 
Do ye mean my father , sir ? says Robin . 
Well , I wouldnae wonder , said Alan . 
The gentleman I have in my mind had the ill taste to clap Campbell to his name . 
My father was an old man , returned Robin . 
You and me would make a better pair , sir . 
I was thinking that , said Alan . 
I was half out of bed , and Duncan had been hanging at the elbow of these fighting cocks , ready to intervene upon the least occasion . 
But when that word was uttered , it was a case of now or never and Duncan , with something of a white face to be sure , thrust himself between . 
Gentlemen , said he , I will have been thinking of a very different matter , whateffer . 
Here are my pipes , and here are you two gentlemen who are baith acclaimed pipers . 
It's an auld dispute which one of ye's the best . 
Here will be a braw chance to settle it . 
Have ye music , as folk say ? Are ye a bit of a piper ? Rumour . 
I can pipe like a Macrimmon ! cries Robin . 
And that is a very bold word , quoth Alan . 
I have made bolder words good before now , returned Robin , and that against better adversaries . 
It is easy to try that , says Alan . 
The two enemies were still on the very breach of a quarrel but down they sat , one upon each side of the peat fire , with a mighty show of politeness . 
But Robin put aside these hospitalities as bad for the breath . 
I will take no advantages , Mr. Stewart , replied Robin . 
Eat and drink I'll follow you . 
I had been pleased with Robin's playing , Alan's ravished me . 
That's no very bad , Mr. Stewart , said the rival , but ye show a poor device in your warblers . 
Me ! cried Alan , the blood starting to his face . 
I give ye the lie . 
I take back the lie . 
Indeed , ye need appeal to naebody , said Robin . 
Ye're a far better judge than any Maclaren in Balquhidder for it's a God's truth that you're a very creditable piper for a Stewart . 
Alan did as he asked and Robin proceeded to imitate and correct some part of Alan's variations , which it seemed that he remembered perfectly . 
Ay , ye have music , said Alan , gloomily . 
As for Alan , his face grew dark and hot , and he sat and gnawed his fingers , like a man under some deep affront . 
Ye can blow the pipes make the most of that . 
And he made as if to rise . 
But Robin only held out his hand as if to ask for silence , and struck into the slow measure of a pibroch . 
Robin Oig , he said , when it was done , ye are a great piper . 
I am not fit to blow in the same kingdom with ye . 
It's a chief principle in military affairs , said he , to go where ye are least expected . 
Forth is our trouble ye ken the saying , 'Forth bridles the wild Hielandman . 
But if we stave on straight to the auld Brig of Stirling , I'll lay my sword they let us pass unchallenged . 
Now , said Alan , I kenna if ye care , but ye're in your own land again . 
We passed the Hieland Line in the first hour and now if we could but pass yon crooked water , we might cast our bonnets in the air . 
Here it was we made our camp , within plain view of Stirling Castle , whence we could hear the drums beat as some part of the garrison paraded . 
It behoved to lie close and keep silent . 
I was for pushing straight across but Alan was more wary . 
It looks unco' quiet , said he but for all that we'll lie down here cannily behind a dyke , and make sure . 
So we lay for about a quarter of an hour , whiles whispering , whiles lying still and hearing nothing earthly but the washing of the water on the piers . 
She's bound to be across now , I whispered . 
Na , said Alan , her foot still sounds boss upon the bridge . 
And just then Who goes ? cried a voice , and we heard the butt of a musket rattle on the stones . 
I must suppose the sentry had been sleeping , so that had we tried , we might have passed unseen but he was awake now , and the chance forfeited . 
This'll never do , said Alan . 
This'll never , never do for us , David . 
I could not conceive what he was doing and indeed I was so sharply cut by the disappointment , that I was little likely to be pleased with anything . 
Well ? said I. Well , said Alan , what would ye have ? They're none such fools as I took them for . 
If we cannae pass the river , we'll have to see what we can do for the firth . 
I'm not up to you in talking back , Alan , I said but I can see we're making bad worse . 
If it's hard to pass a river , it stands to reason it must be worse to pass a sea . 
But there's such a thing as a boat , says Alan , or I'm the more deceived . 
Ay , and such a thing as money , says I. But for us that have neither one nor other , they might just as well not have been invented . 
Ye think so ? said Alan . 
I do that , said I. David , says he , ye're a man of small invention and less faith . 
This is a place that sits near in by the water side , and looks across the Hope to the town of the Queensferry . 
Smoke went up from both of these , and from other villages and farms upon all hands . 
The fields were being reaped two ships lay anchored , and boats were coming and going on the Hope . 
As we went , I kept looking across the water and sighing to myself and though I took no heed of it , Alan had fallen into a muse . 
At last he stopped in the way . 
Did ye take heed of the lass we bought this of ? says he , tapping on the bread and cheese . 
To be sure , said I , and a bonny lass she was . 
Ye thought that ? cries he . 
Man , David , that's good news . 
If it were the other way about , it would be liker it , said I. That's all that you ken , ye see , said Alan . 
Come right about , and back to the change house for that boat of ours . 
I followed him , laughing . 
David Balfour , said he , ye're a very funny gentleman by your way of it , and this is a very funny employ for ye , no doubt . 
ye will perhaps be kind enough to take this matter responsibly . 
I am going to do a bit of play acting , the bottom ground of which is just exactly as serious as the gallows for the pair of us . 
So bear it , if ye please , in mind , and conduct yourself according . 
Well , well , said I , have it as you will . 
It was small wonder if the maid were taken with the picture we presented , of a poor , sick , overwrought lad and his most tender comrade . 
She drew quite near , and stood leaning with her back on the next table . 
What's like wrong with him ? said she at last . 
Alan turned upon her , to my great wonder , with a kind of fury . 
He's walked more hundreds of miles than he has hairs upon his chin , and slept oftener in wet heather than dry sheets . 
Wrong , quo' she ! Wrong enough , I would think ! Wrong , indeed ! and he kept grumbling to himself as he fed me , like a man ill pleased . 
He's young for the like of that , said the maid . 
Ower young , said Alan , with his back to her . 
He would be better riding , says she . 
And where could I get a horse to him ? cried Alan , turning on her with the same appearance of fury . 
Would ye have me steal ? I thought this roughness would have sent her off in dudgeon , as indeed it closed her mouth for the time . 
Ye neednae tell me , she said at last ye're gentry . 
No , says she , that's true indeed . 
Has he nae friends ? said she , in a tearful voice . 
And why that ? says the lass . 
My dear , said Alan , I cannae very safely say but I'll tell ye what I'll do instead , says he , I'll whistle ye a bit tune . 
Wheesht , says she , and looked over her shoulder to the door . 
That's it , said Alan . 
And him so young ! cries the lass . 
He's old enough to and Alan struck his forefinger on the back part of his neck , meaning that I was old enough to lose my head . 
It would be a black shame , she cried , flushing high . 
It's what will be , though , said Alan , unless we manage the better . 
At this the lass turned and ran out of that part of the house , leaving us alone together . 
Alan in high good humour at the furthering of his schemes , and I in bitter dudgeon at being called a Jacobite and treated like a child . 
Alan , I cried , I can stand no more of this . 
Ye'll have to sit it then , Davie , said he . 
For if ye upset the pot now , ye may scrape your own life out of the fire , but Alan Breck is a dead man . 
I'm thinking ye have rather a long tongue , she said at last to Alan . 
Ay said Alan but ye see I ken the folk I speak to . 
I would never betray ye , said she , if ye mean that . 
No , said he , ye're not that kind . 
But I'll tell ye what ye would do , ye would help . 
I couldnae , said she , shaking her head . 
No , said he , but if ye could ? She answered him nothing . 
upon the beach , as I came in by your town's end . 
Did ever you , hear said I , of Mr. Rankeillor of the Ferry ? Rankeillor the writer ? said she . 
Her face cleared up mightily at this , although Alan's darkened . 
That's more than I would ask , said she . 
Mr. Rankeillor is a kennt man . 
And she bade us finish our meat , get clear of the clachan as soon as might be , and lie close in the bit wood on the sea beach . 
And ye can trust me , says she , I'll find some means to put you over . 
It was a small piece of perhaps a score of elders and hawthorns and a few young ashes , not thick enough to veil us from passersby upon the road or beach . 
It was impossible but he should conceive some suspicion of two men lying all day concealed in a thicket and having no business to allege . 
At that , we looked out and saw the lass herself coming rowing to us in a boat . 
Even after she was gone , we had nothing to say , as indeed nothing was enough for such a kindness . 
Only Alan stood a great while upon the shore shaking his head . 
It is a very fine lass , he said at last . 
David , it is a very fine lass . 
CHAPTER XXVII I COME TO MR . 
I was in the long street of Queensferry before the sun was up . 
I saw now that I had no grounds to stand upon and no clear proof of my rights , nor so much as of my own identity . 
If it was all a bubble , I was indeed sorely cheated and left in a sore pass . 
I told him I was come to the Queensferry on business , and taking heart of grace , asked him to direct me to the house of Mr. Rankeillor . 
Why , said he , that is his house that I have just come out of and for a rather singular chance , I am that very man . 
Then , sir , said I , I have to beg the favour of an interview . 
I do not know your name , said he , nor yet your face . 
My name is David Balfour , said I. David Balfour ? he repeated , in rather a high tone , like one surprised . 
And where have you come from , Mr. David Balfour ? he asked , looking me pretty drily in the face . 
I have come from a great many strange places , sir , said I but I think it would be as well to tell you where and how in a more private manner . 
He seemed to muse awhile , holding his lip in his hand , and looking now at me and now upon the causeway of the street . 
Yes , says he , that will be the best , no doubt . 
Here he sate down , and bade me be seated though I thought he looked a little ruefully from his clean chair to my muddy rags . 
And now , says he , if you have any business , pray be brief and come swiftly to the point . 
Nec gemino bellum Trojanum orditur ab ovo do you understand that ? says he , with a keen look . 
I will even do as Horace says , sir , I answered , smiling , and carry you in medias res . 
He nodded as if he was well pleased , and indeed his scrap of Latin had been set to test me . 
For all that , and though I was somewhat encouraged , the blood came in my face when I added I have reason to believe myself some rights on the estate of Shaws . 
He got a paper book out of a drawer and set it before him open . 
But I had shot my bolt and sat speechless . 
Come , come , Mr. Balfour , said he , you must continue . 
Where were you born ? In Essendean , sir , said I , the year , the th of March . 
He seemed to follow this statement in his paper book but what that meant I knew not . 
Your father and mother ? said he . 
My father was Alexander Balfour , schoolmaster of that place , said I , and my mother Grace Pitarrow I think her people were from Angus . 
Have you any papers proving your identity ? asked Mr. Rankeillor . 
No , sir , said I , but they are in the hands of Mr. Campbell , the minister , and could be readily produced . 
Mr. Campbell , too , would give me his word and for that matter , I do not think my uncle would deny me . 
Meaning Mr. Ebenezer Balfour ? says he . 
The same , said I. Whom you have seen ? he asked . 
By whom I was received into his own house , I answered . 
Did you ever meet a man of the name of Hoseason ? asked Mr. Rankeillor . 
Ah ! says he , smiling , you are deeper than me in the geography . 
But so far , I may tell you , this agrees pretty exactly with other informations that I hold . 
I was destined for the plantations a fate that , in God's providence , I have escaped . 
The brig was lost on June the th , says he , looking in his book , and we are now at August the th . 
Here is a considerable hiatus , Mr. Balfour , of near upon two months . 
It has already caused a vast amount of trouble to your friends and I own I shall not be very well contented until it is set right . 
This is to argue in a circle , said the lawyer . 
I cannot be convinced till I have heard you . 
I cannot be your friend till I am properly informed . 
If you were more trustful , it would better befit your time of life . 
And you know , Mr. Balfour , we have a proverb in the country that evil doers are aye evil dreaders . 
is your employer ? All this while I had been gaining ground with Mr. Rankeillor , and in proportion as I gained ground , gaining confidence . 
But at this sally , which I made with something of a smile myself , he fairly laughed aloud . 
No , no , said he , it is not so bad as that . 
were gallivanting in the west , a good deal of water has run under the bridges and if your ears did not sing , it was not for lack of being talked about . 
On the very day of your sea disaster , Mr. Campbell stalked into my office , demanding you from all the winds . 
I was disposed to fear the worst . 
that he had given you considerable sums and that you had started for the continent of Europe , intending to fulfil your education , which was probable and praiseworthy . 
Interrogated how you had come to send no word to Mr. Campbell , he deponed that you had expressed a great desire to break with your past life . 
Further interrogated where you now were , protested ignorance , but believed you were in Leyden . 
That is a close sum of his replies . 
he showed me to the door . 
We were then at a full stand for whatever shrewd suspicions we might entertain , we had no shadow of probation . 
And now , Mr. Balfour , said he , you understand the whole process of these matters , and can judge for yourself to what extent I may be trusted . 
Moreover , I could see he now treated me as if I was myself beyond a doubt so that first point of my identity seemed fully granted . 
Sir , said I , if I tell you my story , I must commit a friend's life to your discretion . 
Pass me your word it shall be sacred and for what touches myself , I will ask no better guarantee than just your face . 
He passed me his word very seriously . 
Thereupon I told him my story from the first , he listening with his spectacles thrust up and his eyes closed , so that I sometimes feared he was asleep . 
with such quickness of hearing and precision of memory as often surprised me . 
Even strange outlandish Gaelic names , heard for that time only , he remembered and would remind me of , years after . 
Yet when I called Alan Breck in full , we had an odd scene . 
I would name no unnecessary names , Mr. Balfour , said he above all of Highlanders , many of whom are obnoxious to the law . 
Well , it might have been better not , said I , but since I have let it slip , I may as well continue . 
Not at all , said Mr. Rankeillor . 
I am somewhat dull of hearing , as you may have remarked and I am far from sure I caught the name exactly . 
We will call your friend , if you please , Mr. Thomson that there may be no reflections . 
And in future , I would take some such way with any Highlander that you may have to mention dead or alive . 
By this , I saw he must have heard the name all too clearly , and had already guessed I might be coming to the murder . 
If he chose to play this part of ignorance , it was no matter of mine so I smiled , said it was no very Highland sounding name , and consented . 
Through all the rest of my story Alan was Mr. Thomson which amused me the more , as it was a piece of policy after his own heart . 
Well , well , said the lawyer , when I had quite done , this is a great epic , a great Odyssey of yours . 
You must tell it , sir , in a sound Latinity when your scholarship is riper or in English if you please , though for my part I prefer the stronger tongue . 
This Mr. Thomson seems to me a gentleman of some choice qualities , though perhaps a trifle bloody minded . 
he were soused in the North Sea , for the man , Mr. David , is a sore embarrassment . 
But you are doubtless quite right to adhere to him indubitably , he adhered to you . 
It comes we may say he was your true companion nor less paribus curis vestigia figit , for I dare say you would both take an orra thought upon the gallows . 
that you are near the end of your troubles . 
As he thus moralised on my adventures , he looked upon me with so much humour and benignity that I could scarce contain my satisfaction . 
Even as I thought so , my eye fell on my unseemly tatters , and I was once more plunged in confusion . 
But the lawyer saw and understood me . 
He rose , called over the stair to lay another plate , for Mr. Balfour would stay to dinner , and led me into a bedroom in the upper part of the house . 
And yet I was ashamed of the change too , and , above all , of the borrowed clothes . 
When I had done , Mr. Rankeillor caught me on the stair , made me his compliments , and had me again into the cabinet . 
Sit ye down , Mr. David , said he , and now that you are looking a little more like yourself , let me see if I can find you any news . 
For , says he , really with embarrassment , the matter hinges on a love affair . 
Truly , said I , I cannot very well join that notion with my uncle . 
But your uncle , Mr. David , was not always old , replied the lawyer , and what may perhaps surprise you more , not always ugly . 
He had a fine , gallant air people stood in their doors to look after him , as he went by upon a mettle horse . 
It sounds like a dream , said I. Ay , ay , said the lawyer , that is how it is with youth and age . 
Nor was that all , but he had a spirit of his own that seemed to promise great things in the future . 
However , majora canamus the two lads fell in love , and that with the same lady . 
She was no such fool , however it's from her you must inherit your excellent good sense and she refused to be bandied from one to another . 
Both got upon their knees to her and the upshot of the matter for that while was that she showed both of them the door . 
That was in August dear me ! the same year I came from college . 
The scene must have been highly farcical . 
I thought myself it was a silly business , but I could not forget my father had a hand in it . 
Surely , sir , it had some note of tragedy , said I. Why , no , sir , not at all , returned the lawyer . 
The one man took the lady , the other the estate . 
Anyhow , this piece of Quixotry on your father's part , as it was unjust in itself , has brought forth a monstrous family of injustices . 
what a time for Mr. Ebenezer ! And yet that is certainly the strangest part of all , said I , that a man's nature should thus change . 
True , said Mr. Rankeillor . 
And yet I imagine it was natural enough . 
He could not think that he had played a handsome part . 
Money was all he got by his bargain well , he came to think the more of money . 
He was selfish when he was young , he is selfish now that he is old and the latter end of all these pretty manners and fine feelings you have seen for yourself . 
Well , sir , said I , and in all this , what is my position ? The estate is yours beyond a doubt , replied the lawyer . 
It matters nothing what your father signed , you are the heir of entail . 
But your uncle is a man to fight the indefensible and it would be likely your identity that he would call in question . 
The kidnapping , to be sure , would be a court card upon our side , if we could only prove it . 
I told him I was very willing to be easy , and that to carry family concerns before the public was a step from which I was naturally much averse . 
I began to see the outlines of that scheme on which we afterwards acted . 
The great affair , I asked , is to bring home to him the kidnapping ? Surely , said Mr. Rankeillor , and if possible , out of court . 
I cannot think to be desirable . 
Well , sir , said I , here is my way of it . 
And I opened my plot to him . 
But this would seem to involve my meeting the man Thomson ? says he , when I had done . 
I think so , indeed , sir , said I. Dear doctor ! cries he , rubbing his brow . 
Dear doctor ! No , Mr. David , I am afraid your scheme is inadmissible . 
Now I put it to you is it wise to meet ? He may have matters to his charge . 
He may not have told you all . 
His name may not be even Thomson ! cries the lawyer , twinkling for some of these fellows will pick up names by the roadside as another would gather haws . 
When I had answered all of them , seemingly to his contentment , he fell into a still deeper muse , even the claret being now forgotten . 
Then he got a sheet of paper and a pencil , and set to work writing and weighing every word and at last touched a bell and had his clerk into the chamber . 
But let us speak no more of business . 
The very sight of Torrance brings in my head a little droll matter of some years ago , when I had made a tryst with the poor oaf at the cross of Edinburgh . 
And thereupon he laughed heartily . 
All these , and the brig herself , I had outlived and come through these hardships and fearful perils without scath . 
My only thought should have been of gratitude and yet I could not behold the place without sorrow for others and a chill of recollected fear . 
I was so thinking when , upon a sudden , Mr. Rankeillor cried out , clapped his hand to his pockets , and began to laugh . 
Mr. Rankeillor changed the order of march , walking behind with Torrance and sending me forward in the manner of a scout . 
He was somewhat dashed in spirits , having passed a long day alone skulking in the county , and made but a poor meal in an alehouse near Dundas . 
that any one could do , but takes a gentleman of penetration . 
But it sticks in my head your lawyer man will be somewhat wearying to see me , says Alan . 
Accordingly I cried and waved on Mr. Rankeillor , who came up alone and was presented to my friend , Mr. Thomson . 
Mr. Thomson , I am pleased to meet you , said he . 
, will tell you that I am little better than blind , and that you must not be surprised if I pass you by to morrow . 
This he said , thinking that Alan would be pleased but the Highlandman's vanity was ready to startle at a less matter than that . 
But I accept your apology , which was a very proper one to make . 
And that is more than I could look for , Mr. Thomson , said Rankeillor , heartily . 
I am not very clear as to the path and as for you , Mr. David , you will find Torrance a pleasant kind of body to speak with . 
Only let me remind you , it's quite needless he should hear more of your adventures or those of ahem Mr. Thomson . 
Accordingly these two went on ahead in very close talk , and Torrance and I brought up the rear . 
Night was quite come when we came in view of the house of Shaws . 
It seemed my uncle was Already in bed , which was indeed the best thing for our arrangements . 
CHAPTER XXIX I COME INTO MY KINGDOM For some time Alan volleyed upon the door , and his knocking only roused the echoes of the house and neighbourhood . 
At last , however , I could hear the noise of a window gently thrust up , and knew that my uncle had come to his observatory . 
For all that , he studied his visitor awhile in silence , and when he spoke his voice had a quaver of misgiving . 
What's this ? says he . 
This is nae kind of time of night for decent folk and I hae nae trokings wi' night hawks . 
What brings ye here ? I have a blunderbush . 
Is that yoursel' , Mr. Balfour ? returned Alan , stepping back and looking up into the darkness . 
Have a care of that blunderbuss they're nasty things to burst . 
What brings ye here ? and whae are ye ? says my uncle , angrily . 
And what is't ? asked my uncle . 
What was that ? cried my uncle , in a mighty changed voice . 
Shall I give ye the rest of the name , then ? said Alan . 
There was a pause and then , I'm thinking I'll better let ye in , says my uncle , doubtfully . 
I dare say that , said Alan but the point is , Would I go ? Now I will tell you what I am thinking . 
This change of note disconcerted Ebenezer he was a little while digesting it , and then says he , Weel , weel , what must be must , and shut the window . 
and taken with fresh claps of fear at every second step and every bolt and bar . 
sate him down on the top doorstep with the blunderbuss ready in his hands . 
And , now says he , mind I have my blunderbush , and if ye take a step nearer ye're as good as deid . 
And a very civil speech , says Alan , to be sure . 
Na , says my uncle , but this is no a very chanty kind of a proceeding , and I'm bound to be prepared . 
And now that we understand each other , ye'll can name your business . 
Why , says Alan , you that are a man of so much understanding , will doubtless have perceived that I am a Hieland gentleman . 
My name has nae business in my story but the county of my friends is no very far from the Isle of Mull , of which ye will have heard . 
And I may tell ye at the off go , unless we can agree upon some terms , ye are little likely to set eyes upon him . 
For my friends , added Alan , simply , are no very well off . 
My uncle cleared his throat . 
I'm no very caring , says he . 
He wasnae a good lad at the best of it , and I've nae call to interfere . 
Ay , ay , said Alan , I see what ye would be at pretending ye don't care , to make the ransom smaller . 
Na , said my uncle , it's the mere truth . 
I take nae manner of interest in the lad , and I'll pay nae ransome , and ye can make a kirk and a mill of him for what I care . 
Hoot , sir , says Alan . 
I'm no just very popular the way it is , returned Ebenezer and I dinnae see how it would come to be kennt . 
No by me , onyway nor yet by you or your friends . 
So that's idle talk , my buckie , says he . 
Then it'll have to be David that tells it , said Alan . 
How that ? says my uncle , sharply . 
Ou , just this , way says Alan . 
I wouldnae be muckle made up with that . 
I was thinking that , said Alan . 
And what for why ? asked Ebenezer . 
I dinnae follow ye there , said my uncle . 
Come , sir , cried Alan . 
I would have you to ken that I am a gentleman I bear a king's name I am nae rider to kick my shanks at your hall door . 
Either give me an answer in civility , and that out of hand or by the top of Glencoe , I will ram three feet of iron through your vitals . 
As for that wild talk , it's fair disrepitable . 
Vitals , says you ! And where would I be with my blunderbush ? he snarled . 
Powder and your auld hands are but as the snail to the swallow against the bright steel in the hands of Alan , said the other . 
Before your jottering finger could find the trigger , the hilt would dirl on your breast bane . 
Eh , man , whae's denying it ? said my uncle . 
Pit it as ye please , hae't your ain way I'll do naething to cross ye . 
Just tell me what like ye'll be wanting , and ye'll see that we'll can agree fine . 
Troth , sir , said Alan , I ask for nothing but plain dealing . 
In two words do ye want the lad killed or kept ? O , sirs ! cried Ebenezer . 
O , sirs , me ! that's no kind of language ! Killed or kept ! repeated Alan . 
O , keepit , keepit ! wailed my uncle . 
We'll have nae bloodshed , if you please . 
Well , says Alan , as ye please that'll be the dearer . 
The dearer ? cries Ebenezer . 
Would ye fyle your hands wi' crime ? Hoot ! said Alan , they're baith crime , whatever ! And the killing's easier , and quicker , and surer . 
Keeping the lad'll be a fashious job , a fashious , kittle business . 
I'll have him keepit , though , returned my uncle . 
I never had naething to do with onything morally wrong and I'm no gaun to begin to pleasure a wild Hielandman . 
Ye're unco scrupulous , sneered Alan . 
I'm a man o' principle , said Ebenezer , simply and if I have to pay for it , I'll have to pay for it . 
And besides , says he , ye forget the lad's my brother's son . 
Well , well , said Alan , and now about the price . 
It's no very easy for me to set a name upon it I would first have to ken some small matters . 
I would have to ken , for instance , what ye gave Hoseason at the first off go ? Hoseason ! cries my uncle , struck aback . 
What for ? For kidnapping David , says Alan . 
It's a lee , it's a black lee ! cried my uncle . 
He leed in his throat that tauld ye that . 
Kidnapped ? He never was ! That's no fault of mine nor yet of yours , said Alan nor yet of Hoseason's , if he's a man that can be trusted . 
What do ye mean ? cried Ebenezer . 
Did Hoseason tell ye ? Why , ye donnered auld runt , how else would I ken ? cried Alan . 
Hoseason and me are partners we gang shares so ye can see for yoursel' what good ye can do leeing . 
And I must plainly say ye drove a fool's bargain when ye let a man like the sailor man so far forward in your private matters . 
But that's past praying for and ye must lie on your bed the way ye made it . 
And the point in hand is just this what did ye pay him ? Has he tauld ye himsel' ? asked my uncle . 
That's my concern , said Alan . 
Weel , said my uncle , I dinnae care what he said , he leed , and the solemn God's truth is this , that I gave him twenty pound . 
Thank you , Mr. Thomson . 
That will do excellently well , said the lawyer , stepping forward and then mighty civilly , Good evening , Mr. Balfour , said he . 
And , Good evening , Uncle Ebenezer , said I. And , It's a braw nicht , Mr. Balfour added Torrance . 
Never a word said my uncle , neither black nor white but just sat where he was on the top door step and stared upon us like a man turned to stone . 
There we all looked upon him for a while , exulting greatly in our success , but yet with a sort of pity for the man's shame . 
Come , come , Mr. Ebenezer , said the lawyer , you must not be down hearted , for I promise you we shall make easy terms . 
In the meanwhile give us the cellar key , and Torrance shall draw us a bottle of your father's wine in honour of the event . 
And then to Alan , with a spice of drollery , Mr. Thomson , I pay you my compliment it was most artfully conducted but in one point you somewhat outran my comprehension . 
This was just the stab that Alan would feel keenest , and I am free to confess he took it very ill . 
By the terms of this , my uncle bound himself to satisfy Rankeillor as to his intromissions , and to pay me two clear thirds of the yearly income of Shaws . 
Even as I spoke on these grave subjects , my eye would take a glad bit of a run over the prospect , and my heart jump with pride . 
About my clear duty to my friend , the lawyer had no doubt . 
I must help him out of the county at whatever risk but in the case of James , he was of a different mind . 
Mr. Thomson , says he , is one thing , Mr. Thomson's kinsman quite another . 
has some concern and is even supposed to feel some animosity in the matter . 
The D. of A. is doubtless an excellent nobleman but , Mr. David , timeo qui nocuere deos . 
If you interfere to balk his vengeance , you should remember there is one way to shut your testimony out and that is to put you in the dock . 
There , you would be in the same pickle as Mr. Thomson's kinsman . 
You will object that you are innocent well , but so is he . 
And to be tried for your life before a Highland jury , on a Highland quarrel and with a Highland Judge upon the bench , would be a brief transition to the gallows . 
Now I had made all these reasonings before and found no very good reply to them so I put on all the simplicity I could . 
It is a poor thought that at my time of life I should be advising you to choose the safe and shameful and I take it back with an apology . 
Go and do your duty and be hanged , if you must , like a gentleman . 
There are worse things in the world than to be hanged . 
Not many , sir , said I , smiling . 
Why , yes , sir , he cried , very many . 
if he were dangling decently upon a gibbet . 
and there he wrote me two letters , making his comments on them as he wrote . 
This , says he , is to my bankers , the British Linen Company , placing a credit to your name . 
Consult Mr. Thomson , he will know of ways and you , with this credit , can supply the means . 
I trust you will be a good husband of your money but in the affair of a friend like Mr. Thompson , I would be even prodigal . 
I think it would be needless to refer to Mr. Thomson . 
As we went by the footpath and beside the gateposts and the unfinished lodge , we kept looking back at the house of my fathers . 
I had little welcome when I came , and less kindness while I stayed but at least I was watched as I went away . 
Alan and I went slowly forward upon our way , having little heart either to walk or speak . 
The same thought was uppermost in both , that we were near the time of our parting and remembrance of all the bygone days sate upon us sorely . 
so that he should not starve in the meanwhile and then we stood a space , and looked over at Edinburgh in silence . 
Well , good bye , said Alan , and held out his left hand . 
Good bye , said I , and gave the hand a little grasp , and went off down hill . 
Neither one of us looked the other in the face , nor so long as he was in my view did I take one back glance at the friend I was leaving . 
It was coming near noon when I passed in by the West Kirk and the Grassmarket into the streets of the capital . 
there was a cold gnawing in my inside like a remorse for something wrong . 
The hand of Providence brought me in my drifting to the very doors of the British Linen Company's bank . 
