A Kidnapped Santa Claus by L. Frank Baum Santa Claus lives in the Laughing Valley , where stands the big , rambling castle in which his toys are manufactured . 
His workmen , selected from the ryls , knooks , pixies and fairies , live with him , and every one is as busy as can be from one year's end to another . 
It is called the Laughing Valley because everything there is happy and gay . 
To laugh one needs to be happy to be happy one needs to be content . 
And throughout the Laughing Valley of Santa Claus contentment reigns supreme . 
On one side is the mighty Forest of Burzee . 
At the other side stands the huge mountain that contains the Caves of the Daemons . 
And between them the Valley lies smiling and peaceful . 
But the Daemons who live in the mountain caves grew to hate Santa Claus very much , and all for the simple reason that he made children happy . 
The Caves of the Daemons are five in number . 
A broad pathway leads up to the first cave , which is a finely arched cavern at the foot of the mountain , the entrance being beautifully carved and decorated . 
In it resides the Daemon of Selfishness . 
Back of this is another cavern inhabited by the Daemon of Envy . 
I do not know what lies beyond this . 
Some say there are terrible pitfalls leading to death and destruction , and this may very well be true . 
However , from each one of the four caves mentioned there is a small , narrow tunnel leading to the fifth cave a cozy little room occupied by the Daemon of Repentance . 
Well , these Daemons of the Caves , thinking they had great cause to dislike old Santa Claus , held a meeting one day to discuss the matter . 
I'm really getting lonesome , said the Daemon of Selfishness . 
For Santa Claus distributes so many pretty Christmas gifts to all the children that they become happy and generous , through his example , and keep away from my cave . 
I'm having the same trouble , rejoined the Daemon of Envy . 
The little ones seem quite content with Santa Claus , and there are few , indeed , that I can coax to become envious . 
And that makes it bad for me ! declared the Daemon of Hatred . 
For if no children pass through the Caves of Selfishness and Envy , none can get to MY cavern . 
Or to mine , added the Daemon of Malice . 
And all because of this person they call Santa Claus ! exclaimed the Daemon of Envy . 
He is simply ruining our business , and something must be done at once . 
To this they readily agreed but what to do was another and more difficult matter to settle . 
Why do you not keep them for yourself ? It's a pity to give them to those noisy boys and fretful girls , who break and destroy them so quickly . 
Nonsense ! cried the old graybeard , his bright eyes twinkling merrily as he turned toward the tempting Daemon . 
The boys and girls are never so noisy and fretful after receiving my presents , and if I can make them happy for one day in the year I am quite content . 
So the Daemon went back to the others , who awaited him in their caves , and said I have failed , for Santa Claus is not at all selfish . 
The following day the Daemon of Envy visited Santa Claus . 
Said he The toy shops are full of playthings quite as pretty as those you are making . 
But Santa Claus refused to be envious of the toy shops . 
I can supply the little ones but once a year on Christmas Eve , he answered for the children are many , and I am but one . 
And as my work is one of love and kindness I would be ashamed to receive money for my little gifts . 
But throughout all the year the children must be amused in some way , and so the toy shops are able to bring much happiness to my little friends . 
I like the toy shops , and am glad to see them prosper . 
In spite of the second rebuff , the Daemon of Hatred thought he would try to influence Santa Claus . 
So the next day he entered the busy workshop and said Good morning , Santa ! I have bad news for you . 
Then run away , like a good fellow , answered Santa Claus . 
Bad news is something that should be kept secret and never told . 
Stuff and rubbish ! cried Santa . 
But I don't hate 'em ! exclaimed Santa Claus positively . 
Such people do me no real harm , but merely render themselves and their children unhappy . 
Poor things ! I'd much rather help them any day than injure them . 
Indeed , the Daemons could not tempt old Santa Claus in any way . 
So they abandoned honeyed words and determined to use force . 
It was well known that no harm can come to Santa Claus while he is in the Laughing Valley , for the fairies , and ryls , and knooks all protect him . 
So the Daemons laid their plans and awaited the arrival of Christmas Eve . 
The roomy sleigh was packed full with huge sacks of toys , and as the reindeer dashed onward our jolly old Santa laughed and whistled and sang for very joy . 
For in all his merry life this was the one day in the year when he was happiest the day he lovingly bestowed the treasures of his workshop upon the little children . 
It would be a busy night for him , he well knew . 
The reindeer knew exactly what was expected of them , and dashed along so swiftly that their feet scarcely seemed to touch the snow covered ground . 
Ha , ha ! laughed the Daemons , rubbing their hands together with cruel glee . 
The tiny immortals knew nothing of the capture of Santa Claus until some time after he had disappeared . 
But finally they missed his cheery voice , and as their master always sang or whistled on his journeys , the silence warned them that something was wrong . 
Little Wisk stuck out his head from underneath the seat and found Santa Claus gone and no one to direct the flight of the reindeer . 
Whoa ! he called out , and the deer obediently slackened speed and came to a halt . 
Peter and Nuter and Kilter all jumped upon the seat and looked back over the track made by the sleigh . 
But Santa Claus had been left miles and miles behind . 
What shall we do ? asked Wisk anxiously , all the mirth and mischief banished from his wee face by this great calamity . 
We must go back at once and find our master , said Nuter the Ryl , who thought and spoke with much deliberation . 
No , no ! exclaimed Peter the Knook , who , cross and crabbed though he was , might always be depended upon in an emergency . 
If we delay , or go back , there will not be time to get the toys to the children before morning and that would grieve Santa Claus more than anything else . 
It is certain that some wicked creatures have captured him , added Kilter thoughtfully , and their object must be to make the children unhappy . 
So our first duty is to get the toys distributed as carefully as if Santa Claus were himself present . 
Afterward we can search for our master and easily secure his freedom . 
This seemed such good and sensible advice that the others at once resolved to adopt it . 
But now they had to distribute the toys according to their own judgment , and they did not understand children as well as did old Santa . 
So it is no wonder they made some laughable errors . 
Mamie Brown , who wanted a doll , got a drum instead and a drum is of no use to a girl who loves dolls . 
Had there been many such mistakes the Daemons would have accomplished their evil purpose and made the children unhappy . 
But the little friends of the absent Santa Claus labored faithfully and intelligently to carry out their master's ideas , and they made fewer errors than might be expected under such unusual circumstances . 
It is possible that Santa Claus was not as merry as usual during the night that succeeded his capture . 
And the Daemons , who guarded him by turns , one after another , did not neglect to taunt him with contemptuous words in his helpless condition . 
When Christmas Day dawned the Daemon of Malice was guarding the prisoner , and his tongue was sharper than that of any of the others . 
The children are waking up , Santa ! he cried . 
He was much grieved by his capture , it is true but his courage did not forsake him . 
And , finding that the prisoner would not reply to his jeers , the Daemon of Malice presently went away , and sent the Daemon of Repentance to take his place . 
This last personage was not so disagreeable as the others . 
He had gentle and refined features , and his voice was soft and pleasant in tone . 
My brother Daemons do not trust me overmuch , said he , as he entered the cavern but it is morning , now , and the mischief is done . 
You cannot visit the children again for another year . 
That is true , answered Santa Claus , almost cheerfully Christmas Eve is past , and for the first time in centuries I have not visited my children . 
The little ones will be greatly disappointed , murmured the Daemon of Repentance , almost regretfully but that cannot be helped now . 
Do you never repent , yourself ? asked Santa Claus , curiously . 
Oh , yes , indeed , answered the Daemon . 
I am even now repenting that I assisted in your capture . 
So I understand , said Santa Claus . 
Those who avoid evil need never visit your cave . 
This speech greatly surprised the prisoner , until he reflected that it was just what might be expected of the Daemon of Repentance . 
The fellow at once busied himself untying the knots that bound Santa Claus and unlocking the chains that fastened him to the wall . 
Then he led the way through a long tunnel until they both emerged in the Cave of Repentance . 
I hope you will forgive me , said the Daemon pleadingly . 
I am not really a bad person , you know and I believe I accomplish a great deal of good in the world . 
With this he opened a back door that let in a flood of sunshine , and Santa Claus sniffed the fresh air gratefully . 
I bear no malice , said he to the Daemon , in a gentle voice and I am sure the world would be a dreary place without you . 
Marching over the snow toward the mountain was a vast army , made up of the most curious creatures imaginable . 
There were numberless knooks from the forest , as rough and crooked in appearance as the gnarled branches of the trees they ministered to . 
And there were dainty ryls from the fields , each one bearing the emblem of the flower or plant it guarded . 
Behind these were many ranks of pixies , gnomes and nymphs , and in the rear a thousand beautiful fairies floated along in gorgeous array . 
And , although they looked so bright and peaceful , the little immortals were armed with powers that would be very terrible to those who had incurred their anger . 
And while they clustered around him and danced with glee at his safe return , he gave them earnest thanks for their support . 
But Wisk , and Nuter , and Peter , and Kilter , he embraced affectionately . 
It is useless to pursue the Daemons , said Santa Claus to the army . 
They have their place in the world , and can never be destroyed . 
But that is a great pity , nevertheless , he continued musingly . 
We really did very well , cried the fairy , in a pleased voice for I found little unhappiness among the children this morning . 
Still , you must not get captured again , my dear master for we might not be so fortunate another time in carrying out your ideas . 
He then related the mistakes that had been made , and which he had not discovered until his tour of inspection . 
And Santa Claus at once sent him with rubber boots for Charlie Smith , and a doll for Mamie Brown so that even those two disappointed ones became happy . 
As for the wicked Daemons of the Caves , they were filled with anger and chagrin when they found that their clever capture of Santa Claus had come to naught . 
Indeed , no one on that Christmas Day appeared to be at all selfish , or envious , or hateful . 
And , realizing that while the children's saint had so many powerful friends it was folly to oppose him , the Daemons never again attempted to interfere with his journeys on Christmas Eve . 
The End of the Project Gutenberg Edition of A Kidnapped Santa Claus . 
