Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
The few suggestions which follow are of this practical , obvious kind . 
If you cannot feel so toward it , do not tell it . 
Have faith in the story , and in the attitude of the children toward it and you . 
If you fail in this , the immediate result will be a touch of shame facedness , affecting your manner unfavorably , and , probably , influencing your accuracy and imaginative vividness . 
A few members of the class had prepared the story of The Fisherman and his Wife . 
The first girl called on was evidently inclined to feel that it was rather a foolish story . 
She tried to tell it well , but there were parts of it which produced in her the touch of shamefacedness to which I have referred . 
The jingle IS foolish that is a part of the charm . 
Let me urge , then , take your story seriously . 
Next , take your time . 
This suggestion needs explaining , perhaps . 
It does not mean license to dawdle . 
Nothing is much more annoying in a speaker than too great deliberateness , or than hesitation of speech . 
This mental attitude must underlie proper control of speed . 
A business like leisure is the true attitude of the storyteller . 
And the result is best attained by concentrating one's attention on the episodes of the story . 
Pass lightly , and comparatively swiftly , over the portions between actual episodes , but take all the time you need for the elaboration of those . 
And above all , do not FEEL hurried . 
The next suggestion is eminently plain and practical , if not an all too obvious one . 
There are times , too , before an adult audience , when a speaker can afford to let his hearers be amused with him over a chance mistake . 
But with children it is most unwise to break the spell of the entertainment in that way . 
Consider , in the matter of a detail of action or description , how absolutely unimportant the mere accuracy is , compared with the effect of smoothness and the enjoyment of the hearers . 
They will not remember the detail , for good or evil , half so long as they will remember the fact that you did not know it . 
So , for their sakes , as well as for the success of your story , cover your slips of memory , and let them be as if they were not . 
And now I come to two points in method which have to do especially with humorous stories . 
The first is the power of initiating the appreciation of the joke . 
Every natural humorist does this by instinct and the value of the power to story teller can hardly be overestimated . 
The suggestion usually comes in the form of facial expression , and in the tone . 
If it is lacking , they are sometimes afraid to follow their own instincts . 
Especially when you are facing an audience of grown people and children together , you will find that the latter are very hesitant about initiating their own expression of humor . 
It is more difficult to make them forget their surroundings then , and more desirable to give them a happy lead . 
Often at the funniest point you will see some small listener in an agony of endeavor to cloak the mirth which he poor mite fears to be indecorous . 
Let him see that it is the thing to laugh , and that everybody is going to . 
Having so stimulated the appreciation of the humorous climax , it is important to give your hearers time for the full savor of the jest to permeate their consciousness . 
Every vital point in a tale must be given a certain amount of time by an anticipatory pause , by some form of vocal or repetitive emphasis , and by actual time . 
But even more than other tales does the funny story demand this . 
It cannot be funny without it . 
Every one who is familiar with the theatre must have noticed how careful all comedians are to give this pause for appreciation and laughter . 
Often the opportunity is crudely given , or too liberally offered and that offends . 
But in a reasonable degree the practice is undoubtedly necessary to any form of humorous expression . 
A remarkably good example of the type of humorous story to which these principles of method apply , is the story of Epaminondas . 
The teller can hardly help sharing the joke in advance , and the tale is an excellent one with which to practice for power in the points mentioned . 
Epaminondas is a valuable little rascal from other points of view , and I mean to return to him , to point a moral . 
But just here I want space for a word or two about the matter of variety of subject and style in school stories . 
The first kind is represented by such stories as the Pig Brother , which has now grown so familiar to teachers that it will serve for illustration without repetition here . 
The story becomes a part of the outfit of received ideas on manners and morals which is an inescapable and necessary possession of the heir of civilization . 
Children do not object to these stories in the least , if the stories are good ones . 
They accept them with the relish which nature seems to maintain for all truly nourishing material . 
The second kind has no preconceived moral to offer , makes no attempt to affect judgment or to pass on a standard . 
It simply presents a picture of life , usually in fable or poetic image , and says to the hearer , These things are . 
The hearer , then , consciously or otherwise , passes judgment on the facts . 
His mind says , These things are good or , This was good , and that , bad or , This thing is desirable , or the contrary . 
The story of The Little Jackal and the Alligator is a good illustration of this type . 
It is a character story . 
Again and again , surely , the author or authors of the tales must have seen the weak , small , clever being triumph over the bulky , well accoutred , stupid adversary . 
Again and again they had laughed at the discomfiture of the latter , perhaps rejoicing in it the more because it removed fear from their own houses . 
And probably never had they concerned themselves particularly with the basic ethics of the struggle . 
It was simply one of the things they saw . 
So they made a picture of it . 
The folk tale so made , and of such character , comes to the child somewhat as an unprejudiced newspaper account of to day's happenings comes to us . 
It pleads no cause , except through its contents it exercises no intentioned influence on our moral judgment it is there , as life is there , to be seen and judged . 
And only through such seeing and judging can the individual perception attain to anything of power or originality . 
Just as a certain amount of received ideas is necessary to sane development , so is a definite opportunity for first hand judgments essential to power . 
In this epoch of well trained minds we run some risk of an inundation of accepted ethics . 
The mind which can make independent judgments , can look at new facts with fresh vision , and reach conclusions with simplicity , is the perennial power in the world . 
And this is the mind we are not noticeably successful in developing , in our system of schooling . 
Let us at least have its needs before our consciousness , in our attempts to supplement the regular studies of school by such side activities as story telling . 
Let us give the children a fair proportion of stories which stimulate independent moral and practical decisions . 
And now for a brief return to our little black friend . 
Epaminondas belongs to a very large , very ancient type of funny story the tale in which the jest depends wholly on an abnormal degree of stupidity on the part of the hero . 
Every race which produces stories seems to have found this theme a natural outlet for its childlike laughter . 
The stupidity of Lazy Jack , of Big Claus , of the Good Man , of Clever Alice , all have their counterparts in the folly of the small Epaminondas . 
Evidently , such stories have served a purpose in the education of the race . 
While the exaggeration of familiar attributes easily awakens mirth in a simple mind , it does more it teaches practical lessons of wisdom and discretion . 
And possibly the lesson was the original cause of the story . 
Not long ago , I happened upon an instance of the teaching power of these nonsense tales , so amusing and convincing that I cannot forbear to share it . 
A primary teacher who heard me tell Epaminondas one evening , told it to her pupils the next morning , with great effect . 
A young teacher who was observing in the room at the time told me what befell . 
She said the children laughed very heartily over the story , and evidently liked it much . 
About an hour later , one of them was sent to the board to do a little problem . 
It happened that the child made an excessively foolish mistake , and did not notice it . 
As he glanced at the teacher for the familiar smile of encouragement , she simply raised her hands , and ejaculated For the law's sake ! It was sufficient . 
The child took the cue instantly . 
He looked hastily at his work , broke into an irrepressible giggle , rubbed the figures out , without a word , and began again . 
And the whole class entered into the joke with the gusto of fellow fools , for once wise . 
And what occurred so visibly in his case goes on quietly in the hidden recesses of the mind in many cases . 
One Epaminondas is worth three lectures . 
I wish there were more of such funny little tales in the world's literature , all ready , as this one is , for telling to the youngest of our listeners . 
But masterpieces are few in any line , and stories for telling are no exception it took generations , probably , to make this one . 
It would be a delight to print a list of fifty , twenty five , even ten books which would be found full of stories to tell without much adapting . 
But I am grateful to have found even fewer than the ten , to which I am sure the teacher can turn with real profit . 
The following names are , of course , additional to the list contained in How to Tell Stories to Children . 
Valuable for kindergartners as a supply of realistic stories with practical lessons in simplest form . 
Joseph McDonough , Albany , New York . 
A splendid collection of Hindu folk tales , adaptable for all ages . 
Poetic fables with beautiful suggestions of ethical truths . 
, Boston , New York , and Chicago . 
A classified collection , in ten volumes , of fairy , folk tales , fables , realistic , historical , and poetical stories . 
BY Carolyn Bailey and Clara Lewis . 
A general collection of popular stories , well told . 
Rather mature but very fine Irish stories . 
The list is not mine , although it embodies some of my suggestions . 
I offer it merely as a practical result of the effort to equalize and extend the story hour throughout the schools . 
Its makers would be the last to claim ideal merit for it , and they are constantly improving and developing it . 
I am indebted for the privilege of using it to the primary teachers of Providence , and to their supervisor , Miss Ella L. Sweeney . 
It is the hobby of many of you who are teachers , also , and I know you want to hear it discussed . 
I mean the growing effort to teach English and English literature to children in the natural way by speaking and hearing , orally . 
We are coming to a realization of the fact that our ability , as a people , to use English is pitifully inadequate and perverted . 
and no general appreciation of its beauty or meaning . 
The structure of the language and the choice of words are dark matters to most of our young Americans this has long been acknowledged and struggled against . 
But even darker , and quite equally destructive to English expression , is their state of mind regarding pronunciation , enunciation , and voice . 
It is the essential connection of these elements with English speech that we have been so slow to realize . 
We have felt that they were externals , desirable but not necessary adjuncts , pretty tags of an exceptional gift or culture . 
Many an intelligent school director to day will say , I don't care much about HOW you say a thing it is WHAT you say that counts . 
He cannot see that voice and enunciation and pronunciation are essentials . 
The fact is that speech is a method of carrying ideas from one human soul to another , by way of the ear . 
And these ideas are very complex . 
There is no what without the how in speech . 
The same written sentence becomes two diametrically opposite ideas , given opposing inflection and accompanying voice effect . 
He stood in the front rank of the battle can be made praiseful affirmation , scornful skepticism , or simple question , by a simple varying of voice and inflection . 
This is the more unmistakable way in which the how affects the what . 
Just as true is the less obvious fact . 
The same written sentiment , spoken by Wendell Phillips and by a man from the Bowery or an uneducated ranchman , is not the same to the listener . 
In one case the sentiment comes to the mind's ear with certain completing and enhancing qualities of sound which give it accuracy and poignancy . 
The thing said may look the same on a printed page , but it is not the same when spoken . 
And it is the spoken sentence which is the original and the usual mode of communication . 
The home is the ideal place for it , but the average home of the United States is no longer a possible place for it . 
And it is the elementary school which must meet the need , if it is to be met at all . 
No rules , no analytical instruction in later development , can accomplish what is needed . 
Hearing and speaking imitating , unwittingly and wittingly , a good model it is to this method we must look for redemption from present conditions . 
I believe we are on the eve of a real revolution in English teaching , only it is a revolution which will not break the peace . 
It will recognize the fact that English is primarily something spoken with the mouth and heard with the ear . 
And this recognition will have greatest weight in the systems of elementary teaching . 
It is , too , for the oral uses that the secondary forms of story telling are so available . 
By secondary I mean those devices which I have tried to indicate , as used by many American teachers , in the chapter on Specific Schoolroom Uses , in my earlier book . 
They are re telling , dramatization , and forms of seat work . 
All of these are a great power in the hands of a wise teacher . 
But their provinces must not be confused or overestimated . 
This truth cannot be too strongly realized . 
Other exercises , in sufficiency , give the opportunity for regulated effort for definite results , but the story is one of the play forces . 
The why and how , the analytical and constructive phases , have no natural place in this first vital epoch . 
Precisely here , however , does the dramatizing of stories and the paper cutting , etc . 
A fine and thoughtful principal of a great school asked me , recently , with real concern , about the growing use of such devices . 
But his point of view ignored the basis of expression , which is to my mind so important . 
Paper cutting is external to English , of course . 
Its only connection is in its power to correlate different forms of expression , and to react on speech expression through sense stimulus . 
But playing the story is a closer relative to English than this . 
It helps , amazingly , in giving the something to say , the urgent desire to say it , and the freedom in trying . 
Never mind the crudities , at least , at the time work only for joyous freedom , inventiveness , and natural forms of reproduction of the ideas given . 
Look for very gradual changes in speech , through the permeating power of imitation , but do not forget that this is the stage of expression which inevitably precedes art . 
When the time comes that the actors lose their unconsciousness it is the end of the story play . 
Drilled work , the beginning of the art , is then the necessity . 
I have indicated that the children may be left undisturbed in their crudities and occasional absurdities . 
The teacher , on the other hand , must avoid , with great judgment , certain absurdities which can easily be initiated by her . 
The first direful possibility is in the choice of material . 
They are for telling only . 
Another point on which it is necessary to exercise reserve is in the degree to which any story can be acted . 
In the justifiable desire to bring a large number of children into the action one must not lose sight of the sanity and propriety of the presentation . 
For example , one must not make a ridiculous caricature , where a picture , however crude , is the intention . 
Personally represent only such things as are definitely and dramatically personified in the story . 
The most powerful instance of a mistake of this kind which I have ever seen will doubtless make my meaning clear . 
In playing a pretty story about animals and children , some children in a primary school were made by the teacher to take the part of the sea . 
In the story , the sea was said to beat upon the shore , as a sea would , without doubt . 
In the play , the children were allowed to thump the floor lustily , as a presentation of their watery functions ! It was unconscionably funny . 
A caution which directly concerns the art of story telling itself , must be added here . 
There is a definite distinction between the arts of narration and dramatization which must never be overlooked . 
Do not , yourself , half tell and half act the story and do not let the children do it . 
It is done in very good schools , sometimes , because an enthusiasm for realistic and lively presentation momentarily obscures the faculty of discrimination . 
A much loved and respected teacher whom I recently listened to , and who will laugh if she recognizes her blunder here , offers a good bad example in this particular . 
She said , It was hard at first , but now it is a matter of course AND THE CHILDREN DO IT TOO , WHEN THEY TELL THE STORY . 
That was the pity ! I saw the illustration myself a little later . 
And so he proceeded , with a constant alternation of narrative and dramatization which was enough to make one dizzy . 
The trouble in such work is , plainly , a lack of discriminating analysis . 
Telling a story necessarily implies non identification of the teller with the event he relates what occurs or occurred , outside of his circle of conciousness . 
Acting a play necessarily implies identification of the actor with the event he presents to you a picture of the thing , in himself . 
It is a difference wide and clear , and the least failure to recognize it confuses the audience and injures both arts . 
In the preceding instances of secondary uses of story telling I have come some distance from the great point , the fundamental point , of the power of imitation in breeding good habit . 
This power is less noticeably active in the dramatizing than in simple re telling in the listening and the re telling , it is dominant for good . 
He is in a more absorbent state , as it were , because there is no preoccupation of effort . 
Here is the great opportunity of the cultured teacher here is the appalling opportunity of the careless or ignorant teacher . 
For the implications of the oral theory of teaching English are evident , concerning the immense importance of the teacher's habit . 
It is a hard ideal to live up to , but it is a valuable ideal to try to live up to . 
And one of the best chances to work toward attainment is in telling stories , for there you have definite material , which you can work into shape and practice on in private . 
That practice ought to include conscious thought as to one's general manner in the schoolroom , and intelligent effort to understand and improve one's own voice . 
Repose and vitality explain themselves by courtesy I specifically do NOT mean the habit of mind which contents itself with drilling children in Good mornings and in hat liftings . 
I mean the attitude of mind which recognizes in the youngest , commonest child , the potential dignity , majesty , and mystery of the developed human soul . 
Again and again , in dealing with young minds , the teacher who respects personality as sacred , no matter how embryonic it be , wins the victories which count for true education . 
Yet , all too often , we forget the claims of this reverence , in the presence of the annoyances and the needed corrections . 
As for voice work in schoolrooms brings two opposing mistakes constantly before me one is the repressed voice , and the other , the forced . 
The best way to avoid either extreme , is to keep in mind that the ideal is development of one's own natural voice , along its own natural lines . 
A quiet , gentle voice is conscientiously aimed at by many young teachers , with so great zeal that the tone becomes painfully repressed , breathy , and timid . 
This is quite as unpleasant as a loud voice , which is , in turn , a frequent result of early admonitions to speak up . 
It is wise to determine the natural volume and pitch of one's speaking voice by a number of tests , made when one is thoroughly rested , at ease , and alone . 
Find out where your voice lies when it is left to itself , under favorable conditions , by reading something aloud or by listening to yourself as you talk to an intimate friend . 
Then practise keeping it in that general range , unless it prove to have a distinct fault , such as a nervous sharpness , or hoarseness . 
A quiet voice is good a hushed voice is abnormal . 
A clear tone is restful , but a loud one is wearying . 
Hyde's accurate and sympathetic modern rendering . 
There's a garden that I ken , Full of little gentlemen Little caps of blue they wear , And green ribbons , very fair . 
From house to house he goes , A messenger small and slight , And whether it rains or snows , He sleeps outside in the night . 
THE LITTLE PINK ROSE Once there was a little pink Rosebud , and she lived down in a little dark house under the ground . 
One day she was sitting there , all by herself , and it was very still . 
Suddenly , she heard a little TAP , TAP , TAP , at the door . 
Who is that ? she said . 
It's the Rain , and I want to come in said a soft , sad , little voice . 
No , you can't come in , the little Rosebud said . 
By and by she heard another little TAP , TAP , TAP on the window pane . 
Who is there ? she said . 
The same soft little voice answered , It's the Rain , and I want to come in ! No , you can't come in , said the little Rosebud . 
Then it was very still for a long time . 
At last , there came a little rustling , whispering sound , all round the window RUSTLE , WHISPER , WHISPER . 
Who is there ? said the little Rosebud . 
It's the Sunshine , said a little , soft , cheery voice , and I want to come in ! N no , said the little pink rose , you can't come in . 
And she sat still again . 
Pretty soon she heard the sweet little rustling noise at the key hole . 
Who is there ? she said . 
WHO IS THERE ? she said . 
So she opened the door a little wee crack , and in they came . 
Then they said , Poke your head through ! So she poked her head through and she was in the midst of a beautiful garden . 
Samuel M. Crothers , in the Atlantic Monthly for July , . 
A very little boy made this story up out of his head , and told it to his papa I think you littlest ones will like it I do . 
Once upon a time there was a little boy , and he wanted to be a cock a doo dle doo So he was a cock a doo dle doo . 
And he wanted to fly up into the sky . 
So he did fly up into the sky . 
And he wanted to get wings and a tail . 
So he did get some wings and a tail . 
One hot summer morning a little Cloud rose out of the sea and floated lightly and happily across the blue sky . 
Far below lay the earth , brown , dry , and desolate , from drouth . 
Oh , if I could only help the poor people down there ! she thought . 
And she began to sink softly down toward the earth . 
When she remembered this she held herself from sinking , and swayed here and there on the breeze , thinking , thinking . 
But at last she stood quite still , and spoke boldly and proudly . 
She said , Men of earth , I will help you , come what may ! The thought made her suddenly marvelously big and strong and powerful . 
Never had she dreamed that she could be so big . 
Like a mighty angel of blessing she stood above the earth , and lifted her head and spread her wings far over the fields and woods . 
Yes , I will help you , cried the Cloud once more . 
That rain was the Cloud's great deed it was her death , too but it was also her glory . 
Soon that , too , was gone , but long , long afterward the men and animals who were saved by the Cloud kept her blessing in their hearts . 
THE LITTLE RED HEN The little Red Hen was in the farmyard with her chickens , when she found a grain of wheat . 
Who will plant this wheat ? she said . 
Not I , said the Goose . 
Not I , said the Duck . 
I will , then , said the little Red Hen , and she planted the grain of wheat . 
When the wheat was ripe she said , Who will take this wheat to the mill ? Not I , said the Goose . 
Not I , said the Duck . 
I will , then , said the little Red Hen , and she took the wheat to the mill . 
When she brought the flour home she said , Who will make some bread with this flour ? Not I , said the Goose . 
Not I , said the Duck . 
I will , then , said the little Red Hen . 
I shall eat it myself . 
Cluck ! cluck ! And she called her chickens to help her . 
The form of the ending was suggested to me by the story in Carolyn Bailey's For the Children's Hour . 
Once upon a time there was a little old woman and a little old man , and they lived all alone in a little old house . 
They hadn't any little girls or any little boys , at all . 
When it was time for the Gingerbread Boy to be done she opened the oven door and pulled out the pan . 
The little Gingerbread Boy ran on and on , until he came to a cow , by the roadside . 
Stop , little Gingerbread Boy , said the cow I want to eat you . 
The little Gingerbread Boy ran on , and on , and on , till he came to a horse , in the pasture . 
Please stop , little Gingerbread Boy , said the horse , you look very good to eat . 
But the little Gingerbread Boy laughed out loud . 
By and by the little Gingerbread Boy came to a barn full of threshers . 
When the threshers smelled the Gingerbread Boy , they tried to pick him up , and said , Don't run so fast , little Gingerbread Boy you look very good to eat . 
Then the little Gingerbread Boy ran faster than ever . 
He ran and ran until he came to a field full of mowers . 
By this time the little Gingerbread Boy was so proud that he didn't think anybody could catch him . 
Pretty soon he saw a fox coming across a field . 
The fox looked at him and began to run . 
I would not think of disturbing you . 
Just then , the little Gingerbread Boy came to a river . 
He could not swim across , and he wanted to keep running away from the cow and the horse and the people . 
Jump on my tail , and I will take you across , said the fox . 
So the little Gingerbread Boy jumped on the fox's tail , and the fox swam into the river . 
The little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his back . 
A little farther out , the fox said , I am afraid the water will cover you , there jump on my shoulder . 
The little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his shoulder . 
So the little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his nose . 
Once there was a great big jungle and in the jungle there was a great big Lion and the Lion was king of the jungle . 
Whenever he wanted anything to eat , all he had to do was to come up out of his cave in the stones and earth and ROAR . 
Then , of course , the Lion could see where they were . 
And he pounced on them , killed them , and gobbled them up . 
They had run away so many times that they were quite thin and very tired , and they could not run so fast any more . 
Come , we'll run on a bit ! And they ran , ran , ran very fast , and the Lion did not catch them that time . 
But at last a day came when the Lion was nearer still and the little mother Jackal was frightened about to death . 
Then what did those cunning little Jackals do but take hold of hands and run up towards the Lion , as if they had meant to come all the time . 
What do you mean ? roared the Lion . 
Oh , he is far more fearful than you ! At that the Lion stood up and roared so that the jungle shook . 
Take me to this lion , he said I'll eat him up and then I'll eat you up . 
The little Jackals danced on ahead , and the Lion stalked behind . 
They led him to a place where there was a round , deep well of clear water . 
They went round on one side of it , and the Lion stalked up to the other . 
He lives down there , Father Lion ! said the little Jackal . 
And the lion in the water shook his mane and showed his teeth . 
The Lion above shook his mane again and growled again , and made a terrible face . 
But the lion in the water made just as terrible a one , back . 
The Lion above couldn't stand that . 
He leaped down into the well after the other lion . 
Once a little mouse who lived in the country invited a little Mouse from the city to visit him . 
When the little City Mouse sat down to dinner he was surprised to find that the Country Mouse had nothing to eat except barley and grain . 
Really , he said , you do not live well at all you should see how I live ! I have all sorts of fine things to eat every day . 
You must come to visit me and see how nice it is to live in the city . 
The little Country Mouse was glad to do this , and after a while he went to the city to visit his friend . 
The very first place that the City Mouse took the Country Mouse to see was the kitchen cupboard of the house where he lived . 
There , on the lowest shelf , behind some stone jars , stood a big paper bag of brown sugar . 
The little City Mouse gnawed a hole in the bag and invited his friend to nibble for himself . 
The two little mice nibbled and nibbled , and the Country Mouse thought he had never tasted anything so delicious in his life . 
He was just thinking how lucky the City Mouse was , when suddenly the door opened with a bang , and in came the cook to get some flour . 
Run ! whispered the City Mouse . 
And they ran as fast as they could to the little hole where they had come in . 
After much tugging and pulling they got a large dried prune out of the jar on to the shelf and began to nibble at it . 
This was even better than the brown sugar . 
The little Country Mouse liked the taste so much that he could hardly nibble fast enough . 
The City Mouse just whispered , Sh ! and ran as fast as he could to the hole . 
The Country Mouse ran after , you may be sure , as fast as HE could . 
This is very terrible , said the little Country Mouse let us not go back to the cupboard again . 
No , said the City Mouse , I will take you to the cellar there is something especial there . 
So the City Mouse took his little friend down the cellar stairs and into a big cupboard where there were many shelves . 
On the shelves were jars of butter , and cheeses in bags and out of bags . 
Overhead hung bunches of sausages , and there were spicy apples in barrels standing about . 
It smelled so good that it went to the little Country Mouse's head . 
He was just on the point of putting his teeth into the cheese when the City Mouse saw him . 
Stop ! stop ! cried the City Mouse . 
That is a trap ! The little Country Mouse stopped and said , What is a trap ? That thing is a trap , said the little City Mouse . 
The minute you touch the cheese with your teeth something comes down on your head hard , and you're dead . 
The little Country Mouse looked at the trap , and he looked at the cheese , and he looked at the little City Mouse . 
If you'll excuse me , he said , I think I will go home . 
LITTLE JACK ROLLAROUND Based on Theodor Storm's story of Der Kleine Hawelmanu . 
Very freely adapted from the German story . 
Once upon a time there was a wee little boy who slept in a tiny trundle bed near his mother's great bed . 
The trundle bed had castors on it so that it could be rolled about , and there was nothing in the world the little boy liked so much as to have it rolled . 
The little boy could never get enough so for this he was called Little Jack Rollaround . 
But Little Jack Rollaround kept on crying , Roll around ! roll around ! By and by the Moon peeped in at the window . 
And Little Jack Rollaround sailed his trundle bed boat up the beam , through the keyhole , and into the street . 
They rolled past the town hall and the schoolhouse and the church but nobody saw little Jack Rollaround , because everybody was in bed , asleep . 
Why don't the people come to see me ? he shouted . 
High up on the church steeple , the Weather vane answered , It is no time for people to be in the streets decent folk are in their beds . 
Then I'll go to the woods , so that the animals may see me , said Little Jack . 
Come along , old Moon , and make a light ! The good Moon went along and made a light , and they came to the forest . 
I must go home now it is late , said the Moon . 
I will go with you make a path ! said Little Jack Rollaround . 
The kind Moon made a path up to the sky , and up sailed the little bed into the midst of the sky . 
All the little bright Stars were there with their nice little lamps . 
And when he saw them , that naughty Little Jack Rollaround began to tease . 
Out of the way , there ! I am coming ! he shouted , and sailed the trundle bed boat straight at them . 
He bumped the little Stars right and left , all over the sky , until every one of them put his little lamp out and left it dark . 
Do not treat the little Stars so , said the good Moon . 
Make a light , old Moon ! Make a light ! shouted the little boy . 
But the Moon answered never a word , and Jack Rollaround could not see where to steer . 
He went rolling criss cross , up and down , all over the sky , knocking into the planets and stumbling into the clouds , till he did not know where he was . 
Suddenly he saw a big yellow light at the very edge of the sky . 
He thought it was the Moon . 
Look out , I am coming ! he cried , and steered for the light . 
But it was not the kind old Moon at all it was the great mother Sun , just coming up out of her home in the sea , to begin her day's work . 
Aha , youngster , what are you doing in my sky ? she said . 
HOW BROTHER RABBIT FOOLED THE WHALE AND THE ELEPHANT Adapted from two tales included in the records of the American Folk Lore Society . 
One day little Brother Rabbit was running along on the sand , lippety , lippety , when he saw the Whale and the Elephant talking together . 
Little Brother Rabbit crouched down and listened to what they were saying . 
Very good , very good , trumpeted the Elephant that suits me we will do it . 
Little Brother Rabbit snickered to himself . 
They won't rule me , he said . 
He ran away and got a very long , very strong rope , and he got his big drum , and hid the drum a long way off in the bushes . 
Then he went along the beach till he came to the Whale . 
And I can't pull her out . 
But you are so strong and so obliging , that I venture to trust you will help me out . 
The Whale was so pleased with the compliment that he said , Yes , at once . 
When you hear that , pull very , very hard , for the cow is stuck very deep in the mud . 
Huh ! grunted the Whale , I'll pull her out , if she is stuck to the horns . 
Little Brother Rabbit tied the rope end to the whale , and ran off , lippety , lippety , till he came to the place where the Elephant was . 
Oh , please , mighty and kindly Elephant , he said , making a very low bow will you do me a favor ? What is it ? asked the Elephant . 
My cow is stuck in the mud , about a quarter of a mile from here , said little Brother Rabbit , and I cannot pull her out . 
If you will be so very obliging as to help me Certainly , said the Elephant grandly , certainly . 
When you hear that , pull pull as hard as you can , for my cow is very heavy . 
Never fear , said the Elephant , I could pull twenty cows . 
I am sure you could , said the Rabbit , politely , only be sure to begin gently , and pull harder and harder till you get her . 
Then he tied the end of the rope tightly round the Elephant's trunk , and ran away into the bushes . 
There he sat down and beat the big drum . 
The Whale began to pull , and the Elephant began to pull , and in a jiffy the rope tightened till it was stretched as hard as could be . 
This is a remarkably heavy cow , said the Elephant but I'll fetch her ! And he braced his forefeet in the earth , and gave a tremendous pull . 
Dear me ! said the Whale . 
That cow must be stuck mighty tight and he drove his tail deep in the water , and gave a marvelous pull . 
He pulled harder the Elephant pulled harder . 
Pretty soon the Whale found himself sliding toward the land . 
That was a pull ! The Elephant was jerked off his feet , and came slipping and sliding to the beach , and into the surf . 
He braced himself with all his might , and pulled his best . 
At the jerk , up came the Whale out of the water . 
Who is pulling me ? spouted the Whale . 
Who is pulling me ? trumpeted the Elephant . 
And then each saw the rope in the other's hold . 
I'll teach you to play cow ! roared the Elephant . 
I'll show you how to fool me ! fumed the Whale . 
And they began to pull again . 
But this time the rope broke , the Whale turned a somersault , and the Elephant fell over backwards . 
At that , they were both so ashamed that neither would speak to the other . 
So that broke up the bargain between them . 
And little Brother Rabbit sat in the bushes and laughed , and laughed , and laughed . 
THE LITTLE HALF CHICK There was once upon a time a Spanish Hen , who hatched out some nice little chickens . 
She was much pleased with their looks as they came from the shell . 
The Hen mother did not know what in the world to do with the queer little Half Chick . 
She was afraid something would happen to it , and she tried hard to protect it and keep it from harm . 
But as soon as it could walk the little Half Chick showed a most headstrong spirit , worse than any of its brothers . 
It would not mind , and it would go wherever it wanted to it walked with a funny little hoppity kick , hoppity kick , and got along pretty fast . 
One day the little Half Chick said , Mother , I am off to Madrid , to see the King ! Good by . 
The poor Hen mother did everything she could think of , to keep him from doing so foolish a thing , but the little Half Chick laughed at her naughtily . 
I'm for seeing the King , he said this life is too quiet for me . 
And away he went , hoppity kick , hoppity kick , over the fields . 
When he had gone some distance the little Half Chick came to a little brook that was caught in the weeds and in much trouble . 
The idea ! said the little Half Chick . 
I cannot be bothered with you I am off for Madrid , to see the King ! And in spite of the brook's begging he went away , hoppity kick , hoppity kick . 
A bit farther on , the Half Chick came to a Fire , which was smothered in damp sticks and in great distress . 
Oh , little Half Chick , said the Fire , you are just in time to save me . 
I am almost dead for want of air . 
Fan me a little with your wing , I beg . 
The idea ! said the little Half Chick . 
I cannot be bothered with you I am off to Madrid , to see the King ! And he went laughing off , hoppity kick , hoppity kick . 
When he had hoppity kicked a good way , and was near Madrid , he came to a clump of bushes , where the Wind was caught fast . 
The Wind was whimpering , and begging to be set free . 
I have no time to bother with you . 
I am going to Madrid , to see the King . 
And he went off , hoppity kick , hoppity kick , leaving the Wind to smother . 
After a while he came to Madrid and to the palace of the King . 
Hoppity kick , hoppity kick , the little Half Chick skipped past the sentry at the gate , and hoppity kick , hoppity kick , he crossed the court . 
But as he was passing the windows of the kitchen the Cook looked out and saw him . 
The very thing for the King's dinner ! she said . 
I was needing a chicken ! And she seized the little Half Chick by his one wing and threw him into a kettle of water on the fire . 
The Water came over the little Half Chick's feathers , over his head , into his eye It was terribly uncomfortable . 
Just as the little Half Chick thought he must suffocate , the Cook took the cover off , to look at the dinner . 
Dear me , she said , this chicken is no good it is burned to a cinder . 
And she picked the little Half Chick up by one leg and threw him out of the window . 
In the air he was caught by a breeze and taken up higher than the trees . 
Round and round he was twirled till he was so dizzy he thought he must perish . 
He cannot hoppity kick any more , but he turns slowly round when the wind blows , and keeps his head toward it , to hear what it says . 
THE LAMBIKIN From Indian Fairy Tales . 
Once upon a time there was a wee , wee Lambikin , who frolicked about on his little tottery legs , and enjoyed himself amazingly . 
The Jackal thought this reasonable , and let Lambikin pass . 
The Vulture thought this reasonable , and let Lambikin pass . 
But cunning little Lambikin said that would never do , for some animal would be sure to eat him on the way back , he was so plump and tender . 
THE BLACKBERRY BUSH From Celia Thaxter's Stories and Poems for Children . 
A little boy sat at his mother's knees , by the long western window , looking out into the garden . 
It was autumn , and the wind was sad and the golden elm leaves lay scattered about among the grass , and on the gravel path . 
The mother was knitting a little stocking her fingers moved the bright needles but her eyes were fixed on the clear evening sky . 
As the darkness gathered , the wee boy laid his head on her lap and kept so still that , at last , she leaned forward to look into his dear round face . 
He was not asleep , but was watching very earnestly a blackberry bush , that waved its one tall , dark red spray in the wind outside the fence . 
What are you thinking about , my darling ? she said , smoothing his soft , honey colored hair . 
The wind blows cold , and here it is dark and lonely but that little boy is warm and happy and safe at his mother's knees . 
I nod to him , and he looks at me . 
I wonder if he knows how happy he is ! See , all my leaves are dark crimson . 
Then the snow will sink down and wrap me close . 
Then the snow will melt again and icy rain will clothe me , and the bitter wind will rattle my bare twigs up and down . 
And here I wait patiently . 
Warmer grow the sunbeams , and softer the air . 
The small blades of grass creep thick about my feet the sweet rain helps swell my shining buds . 
More and more I push forth my leaves , till out I burst in a gay green dress , and nod in joy and pride . 
The little boy comes running to look at me , and cries , Oh , mamma ! the little blackberry bush is alive and beautiful and green . 
I hold them as high as I can for the little boy , who comes dancing out . 
From the window he watches me and thinks , There is the little blackberry bush that was so kind to me . 
I see it and I love it . 
I know it is safe out there nodding all alone , and next summer it will hold ripe berries up for me to gather again . 
Then the wee boy smiled , and liked the little story . 
His mother took him up in her arms , and they went out to supper and left the blackberry bush nodding up and down in the wind and there it is nodding yet . 
THE FAIRIES By William Allingham . 
Up the airy mountain , Down the rushy glen , We daren't go a hunting For fear of little men . 
High on the hilltop The old King sits He is now so old and gray , He's nigh lost his wits . 
They stole little Bridget For seven years long When she came down again Her friends were all gone . 
They took her lightly back , Between the night and morrow They thought that she was fast asleep , But she was dead with sorrow . 
They have kept her ever since Deep within the lake , On a bed of flag leaves , Watching till she wake . 
By the craggy hillside , Through the mosses bare , They have planted thorn trees , For pleasure here and there . 
Is any man so daring As dig them up in spite , He shall find their sharpest thorns In his bed at night . 
Up the airy mountain , Down the rushy glen , We daren't go a hunting For fear of little men . 
Then it rolled under a big round root . 
Little Mr. Field Mouse ran to the root and poked his nose under after the acorn , and there he saw a small round hole in the ground . 
He slipped through and saw some stairs going down into the earth . 
The acorn was rolling down , with a soft tapping sound , ahead of him , so down he went too . 
The shiny acorn rolled to the door and struck against it with a tap . 
Quickly the little door opened and the acorn rolled inside . 
The Field Mouse hurried as fast as he could down the last stairs , and pushed through just as the door was closing . 
It shut behind him , and he was in a little room . 
You are my prisoner , he said to the Field Mouse . 
What for ? said the Field Mouse . 
Because you tried to steal my acorn , said the little Red Man . 
It is my acorn , said the Field Mouse I found it . 
No , it isn't , said the little Red Man , I have it you will never see it again . 
The little Field Mouse looked all about the room as fast as he could , but he could not see any acorn . 
Then he thought he would go back up the tiny stairs to his own home . 
But the little door was locked , and the little Red Man had the key . 
And he said to the poor mouse , You shall be my servant you shall make my bed and sweep my room and cook my broth . 
And every day the little Red Man went away through the tiny door , and did not come back till afternoon . 
But he always locked the door after him , and carried away the key . 
At last , one day he was in such a hurry that he turned the key before the door was quite latched , which , of course , didn't lock it at all . 
He went away without noticing , he was in such a hurry . 
The little Field Mouse knew that his chance had come to run away home . 
But he didn't want to go without the pretty , shiny acorn . 
Where it was he didn't know , so he looked everywhere . 
When he was in his own house he set the shiny acorn on the table . 
I guess he set it down hard , for all at once , with a little snap , it opened ! exactly like a little box . 
So the little Field Mouse gave the tiny necklace to his little Mouse sister . 
She thought it was perfectly lovely . 
And when she wasn't wearing it she kept it in the shiny acorn box . 
And the little Red Man never knew what had become of it , because he didn't know where the little Field Mouse lived . 
ANOTHER LITTLE RED HEN Adapted from the verse version , which is given here as an alternative . 
Once upon a time there was a little Red Hen , who lived on a farm all by herself . 
An old Fox , crafty and sly , had a den in the rocks , on a hill near her house . 
But he couldn't catch the little Red Hen , because she was too wise for him . 
At last the old Fox thought up a way to catch the little Red Hen . 
Early in the morning he said to his old mother , Have the kettle boiling when I come home to night , for I'll be bringing the little Red Hen for supper . 
Then he took a big bag and slung it over his shoulder , and walked till he came to the little Red Hen's house . 
The little Red Hen was just coming out of her door to pick up a few sticks for kindling wood . 
So the old Fox hid behind the wood pile , and as soon as she bent down to get a stick , into the house he slipped , and scurried behind the door . 
In a minute the little Red Hen came quickly in , and shut the door and locked it . 
I'm glad I'm safely in , she said . 
Just as she said it , she turned round , and there stood the ugly old Fox , with his big bag over his shoulder . 
Whiff ! how scared the little Red Hen was ! She dropped her apronful of sticks , and flew up to the big beam across the ceiling . 
There she perched , and she said to the old Fox , down below , You may as well go home , for you can't get me . 
Can't I , though ! said the Fox . 
And what do you think he did ? He stood on the floor underneath the little Red Hen and twirled round in a circle after his own tail . 
He had a very long way to go , up hill , and the little Red Hen was still so dizzy that she didn't know where she was . 
There was a great big stone lying there , and the little Red Hen picked it up and put it in the bag as quick as a wink . 
Then she ran as fast as she could till she came to her own little farm house , and she went in and locked the door with the big key . 
The old Fox went on carrying the stone and never knew the difference . 
My , but it bumped him well ! He was pretty tired when he got home . 
But he was so pleased to think of the supper he was going to have that he did not mind that at all . 
All right , said his mean old mother and she stood close by the boiling kettle , ready to put the cover on . 
The Fox lifted the big , heavy bag up till it was over the open kettle , and gave it a shake . 
But the little Red Hen lived happily ever after , in her own little farmhouse . 
THE STORY OF THE LITTLE RID HIN From Horace E. Scudder's Doings of the Bodley Family in Town and Country . 
There was once't upon a time A little small Rid Hin , Off in the good ould country Where yees ha' nivir bin . 
Nice and quiet shure she was , And nivir did any harrum She lived alane all be herself , And worked upon her farrum . 
There lived out o'er the hill , In a great din o' rocks , A crafty , shly , and wicked Ould folly iv a Fox . 
And so he thaught and thaught , Until he grew so thin That there was nothin' left of him But jist his bones and shkin . 
But the small Rid Hin was wise , She always locked her door , And in her pocket pit the key , To keep the Fox out shure . 
And so away he wint Wid the bag upon his back , An' up the hill and through the woods Saftly he made his track . 
An' thin he came alang , Craping as shtill's a mouse , To where the little small Rid Hin Lived in her shnug ould house . 
An' out she comes hersel' , Jist as he got in sight , To pick up shticks to make her fire Aha ! says Fox , all right . 
Begorra , now , I'll have yees Widout much throuble more An' in he shlips quite unbeknownst , An' hides be'ind the door . 
An' thin , a minute afther , In comes the small Rid Hin , An' shuts the door , and locks it , too , An' thinks , I'm safely in . 
An' thin she tarns around An' looks be'ind the door There shtands the Fox wid his big tail Shpread out upon the floor . 
Aha ! says Fox , we'll see I'll bring yees down from that . 
So out he marched upon the floor Right under where she sat . 
An' thin he whiruled around , An' round an' round an' round , Fashter an' fashter an' fashter , Afther his tail on the ground . 
Until the small Rid Hin She got so dizzy , shure , Wid lookin' at the Fox's tail , She jist dropped on the floor . 
An' Fox he whipped her up , An' pit her in his bag , An' off he started all alone , Him and his little dag . 
All day he tracked the wood Up hill an' down again An' wid him , shmotherin' in the bag , The little small Rid Hin . 
An' 'fore ould Fox could think She lept right out she did , An' thin picked up a great big shtone , An' popped it in instid . 
An' thin she rins off home , Her outside door she locks Thinks she , You see you don't have me , You crafty , shly ould Fox . 
An' Fox , he tugged away Wid the great big hivy shtone , Thimpin' his shoulders very bad As he wint in alone . 
An' whin he came in sight O' his great din o' rocks , Jist watchin' for him at the door He shpied ould mither Fox . 
So the rashkill cut the sthring , An' hild the big bag over Now when I shake it in , says he , Do ye pit on the cover . 
Yis , that I will an' thin The shtone wint in wid a dash , An' the pot oy bilin' wather Came over them ker splash . 
An' schalted 'em both to death , So they couldn't brathe no more An' the little small Rid Hin lived safe , Jist where she lived before . 
THE STORY OF EPAMINONDAS AND HIS AUNTIE A Southern nonsense tale . 
Epaminondas used to go to see his Auntie 'most every day , and she nearly always gave him something to take home to his Mammy . 
One day she gave him a big piece of cake nice , yellow , rich gold cake . 
Epaminondas took it in his fist and held it all scrunched up tight , like this , and came along home . 
By the time he got home there wasn't anything left but a fistful of crumbs . 
His Mammy said , What you got there , Epaminondas ? Cake , Mammy , said Epaminondas . 
Cake ! said his Mammy . 
Epaminondas , you ain't got the sense you was born with ! That's no way to carry cake . 
You hear me , Epaminondas ? Yes , Mammy , said Epaminondas . 
Next day Epaminondas went to see his Auntie , and she gave him a pound of butter for his Mammy fine , fresh , sweet butter . 
Epaminondas wrapped it up in leaves and put it in his hat , and put his hat on his head , and came along home . 
It was a very hot day . 
Pretty soon the butter began to melt . 
It melted , and melted , and as it melted it ran down Epaminondas' forehead then it ran over his face , and in his ears , and down his neck . 
When he got home , all the butter Epaminondas had was ON HIM . 
Butter ! said his Mammy . 
Yes , Mammy , said Epaminondas . 
By and by , another day , Epaminondas went to see his Auntie again , and this time she gave him a little new puppy dog to take home . 
When he got home , the puppy dog was dead . 
His Mammy looked at it , and she said , Law's sake ! Epaminondas , what you got there ? A puppy dog , Mammy , said Epaminondas . 
A PUPPY DOG ! said his Mammy . 
All right , Mammy , said Epaminondas . 
So Epaminondas tied a string around the end of the loaf and took hold of the end of the string and came along home , like this . 
Bread ! ! ! said his Mammy . 
And don't you go see your Auntie , neither . 
I'll go see her my own self . 
Then Epaminondas' Mammy put on her bonnet and her shawl and took a basket in her hand and went away to see Auntie . 
The six mince pies sat cooling in a row on the doorstep . 
right in the middle of every one . 
And , do you know , children , nobody knows what happened next ! The person who told me the story didn't know nobody knows . 
THE BOY WHO CRIED WOLF ! There was once a shepherd boy who kept his flock at a little distance from the village . 
Once he thought he would play a trick on the villagers and have some fun at their expense . 
But when they got there the boy laughed at them for their pains there was no wolf there . 
Still another day the boy tried the same trick , and the villagers came running to help and got laughed at again . 
Then one day a wolf did break into the fold and began killing the lambs . 
In great fright , the boy ran for help . 
Wolf ! Wolf ! he screamed . 
And the shepherd boy lost all his sheep . 
That is the kind of thing that happens to people who lie even when they tell the truth no one believes them . 
They sent a messenger to Jove and begged him to send a king to rule over them . 
Jove saw how stupid they were , and sent a king who could not harm them he tossed a big log into the middle of the pond . 
At the splash the Frogs were terribly frightened , and dove into their holes to hide from King Log . 
But after a while , when they saw that the king never moved , they got over their fright and went and sat on him . 
And as soon as they found he really could not hurt them they began to despise him and finally they sent another messenger to Jove to ask for a new king . 
The Frogs were much pleased and a good deal frightened when King Eel came wriggling and swimming among them . 
But as the days went on , and the eel was perfectly harmless , they stopped being afraid and as soon as they stopped fearing King Eel they stopped respecting him . 
Soon they sent a third messenger to Jove , and begged that they might have a better king , a king who was worth while . 
It was too much Jove was angry at their stupidity at last . 
I will give you a king such as you deserve ! he said and he sent them a Stork . 
As soon as the Frogs came to the surface to greet the new king , King Stork caught them in his long bill and gobbled them up . 
One after another they came bobbing up , and one after another the stork ate them . 
He was indeed a king worthy of them ! THE SUN AND THE WIND The Sun and the Wind once had a quarrel as to which was the stronger . 
Each believed himself to be the more powerful . 
While they were arguing they saw a traveler walking along the country highway , wearing a great cloak . 
Agreed , said the Sun . 
Instantly the Wind began to blow he puffed and tugged at the man's cloak , and raised a storm of hail and rain , to beat at it . 
But the colder it grew and the more it stormed , the tighter the traveler held his cloak around him . 
The Wind could not get it off . 
Now it was the Sun's turn . 
He shone with all his beams on the man's shoulders . 
As it grew hotter and hotter , the man unfastened his cloak then he threw it back at last he took it off ! The Sun had won . 
THE LITTLE JACKAL AND THE ALLIGATOR The little Jackal was very fond of shell fish . 
He used to go down by the river and hunt along the edges for crabs and such things . 
He thought , Pshaw ! I've made a mistake . 
So he opened his mouth and let the little Jackal go . 
After this the little Jackal kept away from the river , out of danger . 
But after about a week he got such an appetite for crabs that nothing else would do at all he felt that he must have a crab . 
So he went down by the river and looked all around , very carefully . 
He didn't see the old Alligator , but he thought to himself , I think I'll not take any chances . 
So he stood still and began to talk out loud to himself . 
So he stuck the black end of his snout above the water and waited . 
And he ran away like the wind . 
The old Alligator foamed at the mouth , he was so angry , but the little Jackal was gone . 
For two whole weeks the little Jackal kept away from the river . 
Then , one day he got a feeling inside him that nothing but crabs could satisfy he felt that he must have at least one crab . 
Very cautiously , he went down to the river and looked all around . 
He saw no sign of the old Alligator . 
Still , he did not mean to take any chances . 
So he stood quite still and began to talk to himself , it was a little way he had . 
So he blew , and he blew , a mighty blast , and the bubbles rose in a perfect whirlpool , fizzing and swirling . 
The little Jackal didn't have to be told who was underneath those bubbles he took one quick look , and off he ran . 
After this , the little Jackal did not like to risk going near the water , so he ate no more crabs . 
But he found a garden of wild figs , which were so good that he went there every day , and ate them instead of shell fish . 
Now the old Alligator found this out , and he made up his mind to have the little Jackal for supper , or to die trying . 
So he crept , and crawled , and dragged himself over the ground to the garden of wild figs . 
There he made a huge pile of figs under the biggest of the wild fig trees , and hid himself in the pile . 
After a while the little Jackal came dancing into the garden , very happy and care free , BUT looking all around . 
He saw the huge pile of figs under the big fig tree . 
H m , he thought , that looks singularly like my friend , the Alligator . 
He stood quite still and began to talk to himself , it was a little way he had . 
And straightway he humped himself up and moved , and sent the little figs flying , and his back showed through . 
The little Jackal did not wait for a second look . 
He ran out of the garden like the wind . 
He vowed that he would have the little Jackal for supper this time , come what might . 
So he crept and crawled over the ground till he came to the little Jackal's house . 
Then he crept and crawled inside , and hid himself there in the house , to wait till the little Jackal should come home . 
By and by the little Jackal came dancing home , happy and care free , BUT looking all around . 
Presently , as he came along , he saw that the ground was all scratched up as if something very heavy had been dragged over it . 
The little Jackal stopped and looked . 
What's this ? what's this ? he said . 
Then he saw that the door of his house was crushed at the sides and broken , as if something very big had gone through it . 
What's this ? What's this ? the little Jackal said . 
and said , Hullo , little Jackal ! Oh ! when the little Jackal heard that , he was frightened enough , for once . 
It's the old Alligator , he said , and if I don't make an end of him this time he will certainly make an end of me . 
What shall I do ? He thought very fast . 
Then he spoke out pleasantly . 
One day when she came home the little Larks were much frightened . 
And then he told his son to go out to night and ask all the neighbors to come and reap the corn to morrow . 
Don't be frightened , she said if he waits for his neighbors to reap the corn we shall have plenty of time to move tell me what he says to morrow . 
And then he called his son and told him to ask all the uncles and cousins to come to morrow and cut the corn . 
Shall we not move to night ? Don't worry , said the mother Lark the uncles and cousins have plenty of reaping to do for themselves we'll not move yet . 
And then he called his son and said , Go out to night and hire reapers , and to morrow we will begin to cut . 
Well , said the mother , that is another story when a man begins to do his own business , instead of asking somebody else to do it , things get done . 
I will move you out to night . 
A TRUE STORY ABOUT A GIRL Once there were four little girls who lived in a big , bare house , in the country . 
They were very poor , but they had the happiest times you ever heard of , because they were very rich in everything except just money . 
There were dark , shadowy woods , and fields of flowers , and a river . 
And there was a big barn . 
One of the little girls was named Louisa . 
She was very pretty , and ever so strong she could run for miles through the woods and not get tired . 
And she had a splendid brain in her little head it liked study , and it thought interesting thoughts all day long . 
Louisa liked to sit in a corner by herself , sometimes , and write thoughts in her diary all the little girls kept diaries . 
She liked to make up stories out of her own head , and sometimes she made verses . 
Louisa liked theatricals better than anything . 
They made the barn into a theatre , and the grown people came to see the plays they acted . 
They used to climb up on the hay mow for a stage , and the grown people sat in chairs on the floor . 
One of the plays they acted was Jack and the Bean Stalk . 
One of the little girls was dressed up to look like Jack , and she acted that part . 
The giant was made out of pillows , with a great , fierce head of paper , and funny clothes . 
Another story that they acted was Cinderella . 
They made a wonderful big pumpkin out of the wheelbarrow , trimmed with yellow paper , and Cinderella rolled away in it , when the fairy godmother waved her wand . 
One other beautiful story they used to play . 
Louisa loved all these plays , and she made some of her own and wrote them down so that the children could act them . 
But there never was enough money for these things , and Louisa's mother grew more and more weary , and sometimes ill . 
I cannot tell you how much Louisa suffered over this . 
At last , as Louisa thought about it , she came to care more about helping her mother and her father and her sisters than about anything else in all the world . 
And she began to work very hard to earn money . 
She sewed for people , and when she was a little older she taught some little girls their lessons , and then she wrote stories for the papers . 
Every bit of money she earned , except what she had to use , she gave to her dear family . 
It helped very much , but it was so little that Louisa never felt as if she were doing anything . 
Every year she grew more unselfish , and every year she worked harder . 
She liked writing stories best of all her work , but she did not get much money for them , and some people told her she was wasting her time . 
At last , one day , a publisher asked Louisa , who was now a woman , to write a book for girls . 
When she thought about the book she remembered the good times she used to have with her sisters in the big , bare house in the country . 
When the book was written , she called it Little Women , and sent it to the publisher . 
And , children , the little book made Louisa famous . 
It was so sweet and funny and sad and real , like our own lives , that everybody wanted to read it . 
Everybody bought it , and much money came from it . 
Never again did the dear mother have to do any hard work , and she had pretty things about her all the rest of her life . 
Louisa Alcott , for that was Louisa's name , wrote many beautiful books after this , and she became one of the most famous women of America . 
But I think the most beautiful thing about her is what I have been telling you that she loved her mother so well that she gave her whole life to make her happy . 
It used to help Louisa to be good to play this , and I think it may have helped make her the splendid woman she was afterward . 
Maybe you would like to hear a poem she wrote about it , when she was only fourteen years old . 
It will help you , too , to think the same thoughts . 
Copyright , , by Louisa M. Alcott . 
Copyright , , by J. S. P. Alcott . 
I do not ask for any crown But that which all may win , Nor seek to conquer any world , Except the one within . 
Be thou my guide until I find , Led by a tender hand , Thy happy kingdom in MYSELF , And dare to take command . 
PICCOLA From Celia Thaxter's Stories and Poems for Children Houghton , Mifflin Co . 
Poor , sweet Piccola ! Did you hear What happened to Piccola , children dear ? 'T is seldom Fortune such favor grants As fell to this little maid of France . 
'Twas Christmas time , and her parents poor Could hardly drive the wolf from the door , Striving with poverty's patient pain Only to live till summer again . 
No gifts for Piccola ! Sad were they When dawned the morning of Christmas day Their little darling no joy might stir , St . 
Nicholas nothing would bring to her ! But Piccola never doubted at all That something beautiful must befall Every child upon Christmas day , And so she slept till the dawn was gray . 
And full of faith , when at last she woke , She stole to her shoe as the morning broke Such sounds of gladness filled all the air , 'T was plain St . 
Nicholas had been there ! In rushed Piccola sweet , half wild Never was seen such a joyful child . 
See what the good saint brought ! she cried , And mother and father must peep inside . 
Children , this story I tell to you , Of Piccola sweet and her bird , is true . 
In the far off land of France , they say , Still do they live to this very day . 
THE LITTLE FIR TREE When I was a very little girl some one , probably my mother , read to me Hans Christian Andersen's story of the Little Fir Tree . 
It happened that I did not read it for myself or hear it again during my childhood . 
The latter part of the story had wholly faded from my memory , so that I made up to suit the tastes of my audience . 
Afterward I told the story to a good many children , at one time or another , and it gradually took the shape it has here . 
Then indeed I was amused , and somewhat distressed , to find how far I had wandered from the text . 
I give this explanation that the reader may know I do not presume to offer the little tale which follows as an adaptation of Andersen's famous story . 
I offer it plainly as a story which children have liked , and which grew out of my early memories of Andersen's The Little Fir Tree . 
The Little Fir Tree was very unhappy because he was not big like the others . 
They came to cut the big trees down and carry them away . 
And when one had been cut down and carried away the others talked about it , and nodded their heads . 
The Little Fir Tree wanted greatly to see life , but he was always too little the men passed him by . 
There are none little enough , they said . 
Oh ! how the Little Fir Tree pricked up his needles ! Here is one , said one of the men , it is just little enough . 
And he touched the Little Fir Tree . 
The Little Fir Tree was happy as a bird , because he knew they were about to cut him down . 
And when he was being carried away on the sledge he lay wondering , SO contentedly , whether he should be the mast of a ship or part of a fine city house . 
And then the Little Fir Tree began to see life . 
People kept coming to look at the trees and to take them away . 
But always when they saw the Little Fir Tree they shook their heads and said , It is too little , too little . 
Until , finally , two children came along , hand in hand , looking carefully at all the small trees . 
He kept wondering , while they took him in through some big doors , and set him up in another tub , on the table , in a bare little room . 
Pretty soon they went away , and came back again with a big basket , carried between them . 
Then some pretty ladies , with white caps on their heads and white aprons over their blue dresses , came bringing little parcels . 
He felt their soft little touches on his head and his twigs and his branches . 
What was it that he was , now ? Why was this glory for him ? After a time every one went away and left him . 
It grew dusk , and the Little Fir Tree began to hear strange sounds through the closed doors . 
Sometimes he heard a child crying . 
He was beginning to be lonely . 
It grew more and more shadowy . 
All at once , the doors opened and the two children came in . 
Two of the pretty ladies were with them . 
They came up to the Little Fir Tree and quickly lighted all the little pink and white candles . 
He wondered why all the little children looked so white and tired he did not know that he was in a hospital . 
But before he could wonder any more his breath was quite taken away by the shout those little white children gave . 
Oh ! oh ! m m ! m m ! they cried . 
How pretty ! How beautiful ! Oh , isn't it lovely ! He knew they must mean him , for all their shining eyes were looking straight at him . 
He stood as straight as a mast , and quivered in every needle , for joy . 
And for love of this friend , the king of Egypt had let numbers of the Israelites settle in his land . 
But after the king and his Israelitish friend were dead , there was a new king , who hated the Israelites . 
Then he and his rulers did a wicked thing . 
They made the Israelites slaves . 
And they gave them terrible tasks to do , without proper rest , or food , or clothes . 
For they hoped that the hardship would kill off the Israelites . 
They thought the old men would die and the young men be so ill and weary that they could not bring up families , and so the race would vanish away . 
But in spite of the work and suffering , the Israelites remained strong , and more and more boys grew up , to make the king afraid . 
Then he did the wickedest thing of all . 
He ordered his soldiers to kill every boy baby that should be born in an Israelitish family he did not care about the girls , because they could not grow up to fight . 
Very soon after this evil order , a boy baby was born in a certain Israelitish family . 
When his mother first looked at him her heart was nearly broken , for he was even more beautiful than most babies are , so strong and fair and sweet . 
But he was a boy ! How could she save him from death ? Somehow , she contrived to keep him hidden for three whole months . 
But at the end of that time , she saw that it was not going to be possible to keep him safe any longer . 
She had been thinking all this time about what she should do , and now she carried out her plan . 
It did not show at all , unless one were quite near it . 
Then she kissed her little son and left him there . 
But his sister stood far off , not seeming to watch , but really watching carefully to see what would happen to the baby . 
Soon there was the sound of talk and laughter , and a train of beautiful women came down to the water's edge . 
It was the king's daughter , come down to bathe in the river , with her maidens . 
The maidens walked along by the river's side . 
As the king's daughter came near to the water , she saw the strange little basket lying in the flags , and she sent her maid to bring it to her . 
And when she had opened it , she saw the child the poor baby was crying . 
When she saw him , so helpless and so beautiful , crying for his mother , the king's daughter pitied him and loved him . 
She knew the cruel order of her father , and she said at once , This is one of the Hebrews' children . 
At all events , she told the little girl to go . 
The mother kept him until he was old enough to be taken to the princess's palace . 
Then he was brought and given to the king's daughter , and he became her son . 
And she named him Moses . 
The one child saved by the king's own daughter was the very one the king would most have wanted to kill , if he had known . 
THE TEN FAIRIES Adapted from the facts given in the German of Die Zehn Feeen ? , by H. A. Guerber . 
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl , whose name was Elsa . 
Elsa's father and mother worked very hard and became rich . 
But they loved Elsa so much that they did not like to have her do any work very foolishly , they let her play all the time . 
But she was so sweet and merry that everybody loved her . 
And by and by , she married one of the people who loved her , and had a house of her own to take care of . 
The maid would come and say , How shall I do this ? or How shall I do that ? And Elsa would have to say , I don't know . 
Then the maid would pretend that she did not know , either and when she saw her mistress sitting about doing nothing , she , too , sat about , idle . 
It made him sad , and that made Elsa sad , for she wanted to do everything just right . 
What is the matter , dear ? he said . 
Why do you cry ? Oh , I am crying because I do not know how to keep the house , said Elsa . 
I cannot make bread , I cannot sweep , I cannot sew a seam when I was a little girl I never learned to work , and now I cannot do anything right . 
I wish I had ten good fairies to help me ! You shall have them , dear , said the gray man , and he shook his strange gray cloak . 
But the neighbors might stare and ask questions if they saw these little chaps running about your house , so I will hide them away for you . 
Give me your little useless hands . 
Wondering , Elsa stretched out her pretty , little , white hands . 
Now stretch out your little useless fingers , dear ! Elsa stretched out her pretty pink fingers . 
Hop ! hide yourselves away ! said the gray man . 
Elsa sat and looked with wonder at her little white hands and the ten useless fingers . 
But suddenly the little fingers began to stir . 
The tiny fairies who were hidden away there weren't used to staying still , and they were getting restless . 
They stirred so that Elsa jumped up and ran to the cooking table , and took hold of the bread board . 
Then the little fairy fingers seized the broom , and in a twinkling they were making the house clean . 
And so it went , all day . 
Elsa flew about from one thing to another , and the ten fairies did it all , just right . 
When the maid saw her mistress working , she began to work , too and when she saw how beautifully everything was done , she was ashamed to do anything badly herself . 
In a little while the housework was going smoothly , and Elsa could laugh and sing again . 
There was no more crossness in that house . 
THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER Once upon a time there was an honest shoemaker , who was very poor . 
He worked as hard as he could , and still he could not earn enough to keep himself and his wife . 
At last there came a day when he had nothing left but one piece of leather , big enough to make one pair of shoes . 
Bright and early the next morning , he rose and went to his work bench . 
There lay a pair of shoes , beautifully made , and the leather was gone ! There was no sign of any one's having been there . 
The shoemaker and his wife did not know what to make of it . 
Happily , he cut them out , and then , as it was late , he left the pieces on the bench , ready to sew in the morning . 
But when morning came , two pairs of shoes lay on the bench , most beautifully made , and no sign of any one who had been there . 
The shoemaker and his wife were quite at a loss . 
That day a customer came and bought both pairs , and paid so much for them that the shoemaker bought leather for four pairs , with the money . 
Once more he cut out the shoes and left them on the bench . 
And in the morning all four pairs were made . 
It went on like this until the shoemaker and his wife were prosperous people . 
But they could not be satisfied to have so much done for them and not know to whom they should be grateful . 
They were quite naked , but they had wee little scissors and hammers and thread . 
Tap ! tap ! went the little hammers stitch , stitch , went the thread , and the little elves were hard at work . 
No one ever worked so fast as they . 
In almost no time all the shoes were stitched and finished . 
Then the tiny elves took hold of each other's hands and danced round the shoes on the bench , till the shoemaker and his wife had hard work not to laugh aloud . 
But as the clock struck two , the little creatures whisked away out of the window , and left the room all as it was before . 
I will make the shoes if you will make the coats , said her husband . 
That very day they set about it . 
, and her husband made two little pairs of shoes with long , pointed toes . 
They made the wee clothes as dainty as could be , with nice little stitches and pretty buttons and by Christmas time , they were finished . 
On Christmas eve , the shoemaker cleaned his bench , and on it , instead of leather , he laid the two sets of gay little fairy clothes . 
Then he and his wife hid away as before , to watch . 
Promptly at midnight , the little naked elves came in . 
They hopped upon the bench but when they saw the little clothes there , they laughed and danced for joy . 
Each one caught up his little coat and things and began to put them on . 
Then they looked at each other and made all kinds of funny motions in their delight . 
At last they began to dance , and when the clock struck two , they danced quite away , out of the window . 
They never came back any more , but from that day they gave the shoemaker and his wife good luck , so that they never needed any more help . 
WHO KILLED THE OTTER'S BABIES ? Adapted from the story as told in Fables and Folk Tales From an Eastern Forest , by Walter Skeat . 
But when the Otter came back from the river , with a string of fish , he found his babies crushed flat . 
What does this mean , Friend Mouse deer ? he said . 
I forgot your children , and trod on them . 
I shall go to King Solomon , said the Otter , and you shall be punished . 
Soon the Mouse deer was called before King Solomon . 
Did you kill the Otter's babies ? said the king . 
Yes , your Majesty , said the Mouse deer , but I did not mean to . 
How did it happen ? said the king . 
Your Majesty knows , said the Mouse deer , that I am Chief Dancer of the War dance . 
The Woodpecker came and sounded the war gong , and I had to dance and as I danced I trod on the Otter's children . 
Send for the Woodpecker , said King Solomon . 
And when the Woodpecker came , he said to him , Was it you who sounded the war gong ? Yes , your Majesty , said the Woodpecker , but I had to . 
Why ? said the king . 
Your Majesty knows , said the Woodpecker , that I am Chief Beater of the War gong , and I sounded the gong because I saw the Great Lizard wearing his sword . 
Send for the Great Lizard , said King Solomon . 
When the Great Lizard came , he asked him , Was it you who were wearing your sword ? Yes , your Majesty , said the Great Lizard but I had to . 
Why ? said the king . 
Your Majesty knows , said the Great Lizard , that I am Chief Protector of the Sword . 
I wore my sword because the Tortoise came wearing his coat of mail . 
So the Tortoise was sent for . 
Why did you wear your coat of mail ? said the king . 
I put it on , your Majesty , said the Tortoise , because I saw the King crab trailing his three edged pike . 
Then the King crab was sent for . 
Why were you trailing your three edged pike ? said King Solomon . 
Because , your Majesty , said the Kingerab , I saw that the Crayfish had shouldered his lance . 
Immediately the Crayfish was sent for . 
Why did you shoulder your lance ? said the king . 
Because , your Majesty , said the Crayfish , I saw the Otter coming down to the river to kill my children . 
Oh , said King Solomon , if that is the case , the Otter killed the Otter's children . 
And the Mouse deer cannot be held , by the law of the land ! EARLY From The singing Leaves , by Josephine Preston Peabody . 
I like to lie and wait to see My mother braid her hair . 
It is as long as it can be , And yet she doesn't care . 
I love my mother's hair . 
So then she winds it , shiny brown , Around her head into a crown , Just like the day before . 
And then she looks and pats it down , And looks a minute more While I stay here all still and cool . 
There is a great deal more to know about Brahmins , but that is enough for the story . 
One day a Brahmin was walking along a country road when he came upon a Tiger , shut up in a strong iron cage . 
The villagers had caught him and shut him up there for his wickedness . 
But Brother Tiger , said the Brahmin , you know if I should let you out , you would spring on me and eat me up . 
Never , Brother Brahmin ! said the Tiger . 
The moment he was out he sprang on the Brahmin , and was about to eat him up . 
But , Brother Tiger , said the Brahmin , you promised you would not . 
It is not fair or just that you should eat me , when I set you free . 
It is perfectly right and just , said the Tiger , and I shall eat you up . 
The first thing they came to , to ask , was an old Banyan Tree , by the wayside . 
In the summer , he said , when the sun is hot , men come and sit in the cool of my shade and refresh themselves with the fruit of my branches . 
But when evening falls , and they are rested , they break my twigs and scatter my leaves , and stone my boughs for more fruit . 
Men are an ungrateful race . 
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin . 
The Tiger sprang to eat the Brahmin , but the Brahmin said , Wait , wait we have asked only one . 
We have still four to ask . 
Presently they came to a place where an old Bullock was lying by the road . 
I carried heavy loads and carried them far . 
Now that I am old and weak and cannot work , he leaves me without food or water , to die by the wayside . 
Men are a thankless lot . 
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin . 
The Tiger sprang , but the Brahmin spoke very quickly Oh , but this is only the second , Brother Tiger you promised to ask five . 
The Tiger grumbled a good deal , but at last he went on again with the Brahmin . 
And after a time they saw an Eagle , high overhead . 
I live high in the air , he said , and I do no man any harm . 
Yet as often as they find my eyrie , men stone my young and rob my nest and shoot at me with arrows . 
Men are a cruel breed . 
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin ! The Tiger sprang upon the Brahmin , to eat him up and this time the Brahmin had very hard work to persuade him to wait . 
At last he did persuade him , however , and they walked on together . 
And in a little while they saw an old Alligator , lying half buried in mud and slime , at the river's edge . 
Men are a worthless lot . 
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin ! At this the Tiger was bound to eat the Brahmin at once . 
The poor Brahmin had to remind him , again and again , that they had asked only four . 
Wait till we've asked one more ! Wait until we see a fifth ! he begged . 
Finally , the Tiger walked on with him . 
After a time , they met the little Jackal , coming gayly down the road toward them . 
Yes , yes , his cage , said the Brahmin . 
Why , the cage he was in , said the Brahmin . 
You see But I don't altogether understand , said the little Jackal , You set him free , you say ? Yes , yes , yes ! said the Brahmin . 
If you really want my opinion you must make the matter clear . 
What sort of cage was it ? Why , a big , ordinary cage , an iron cage , said the Brahmin . 
That gives me no idea at all , said the little Jackal . 
See here , my friends , if we are to get on with this matter you'd best show me the spot . 
Then I can understand in a jiffy . 
So the Brahmin , the Tiger , and the little Jackal walked back together to the spot where the cage was . 
Now , let us understand the situation , said the little Jackal . 
Brahmin , where were you ? I stood here by the roadside , said the Brahmin . 
Tiger , where were you ? said the little Jackal . 
Why , in the cage , of course , roared the Tiger . 
Oh , I beg your pardon , Father Tiger , said the little Jackal , I really am SO stupid I cannot QUITE understand what happened . 
Oh , I do beg your pardon , said the little Jackal . 
How does it shut ? It shuts like this , said the Brahmin , pushing it to . 
Yes but I don't see any lock , said the little Jackal , does it lock on the outside ? It locks like this , said the Brahmin . 
And he shut and bolted the door ! Oh , does it , indeed ? said the little Jackal . 
Good by , Brother , he said . 
But you know if you don't , you will when you are grown up that no matter how clever you are , sooner or later you surely meet some one who is cleverer . 
It is always so in life . 
And it was so with the little Jackal . 
The little Jackal was , as you know , exceedingly fond of shell fish , especially of river crabs . 
Now there came a time when he had eaten all the crabs to be found on his own side of the river . 
He knew there must be plenty on the other side , if he could only get to them , but he could not swim . 
One day he thought of a plan . 
Indeed I will , said the Camel , who was very fond of sugar cane . 
The Camel was perfectly willing , so the little Jackal jumped on his back , and the Camel swam across the river , carrying him . 
He ate happily , and noticed nothing around him . 
Now , you know , a Camel is very big , and a Jackal is very little . 
Consequently , the little Jackal had eaten his fill by the time the Camel had barely taken a mouthful . 
The little Jackal had no mind to wait for his slow friend he wanted to be off home again , about his business . 
So he ran round and round the sugar cane field , and as he ran he sang and shouted , and made a great hullabaloo . 
Of course , the villagers heard him at once . 
There is a Jackal in the sugar cane , they said he will dig holes and destroy the roots we must go down and drive him out . 
So they came down , with sticks and stones . 
When they got there , there was no Jackal to be seen but they saw the great Camel , eating away at the juicy sugar cane . 
They ran at him and beat him , and stoned him , and drove him away half dead . 
When they had gone , leaving the poor Camel half killed , the little Jackal came dancing back from somewhere or other . 
I think it's time to go home , now , he said don't you ? Well , you ARE a pretty friend ! said the Camel . 
The idea of your making such a noise , with your shouting and singing ! You brought this upon me . 
He took the little Jackal kindly on his back and started into the water . 
When he began to swim he swam out to where the river was the very deepest . 
There he stopped , and said , Oh , Jackal ! Yes , said the little Jackal . 
I have the strangest feeling , said the Camel , I feel as if I must roll over . 
Roll over' ! cried the Jackal . 
And the little Jackal was drowned , for his sins , but the Camel came safely home . 
At that time , nearly all the people in the United States lived between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mississippi River . 
Beyond were plains , reaching to the foot of the mighty Rocky Mountains , where Indians and wild beasts roamed . 
The only white men there were a few hunters and trappers . 
So the pioneers settled there and built them huts and cabins for the first winter . 
All their lives now depended on the crops of grain and vegetables which they could raise in the valley . 
They made the barren land good by spreading water from the little streams over it , what we call irrigating and they planted enough corn and grain and vegetables for all the people . 
Every one helped , and every one watched for the sprouting , with hopes , and prayers , and careful eyes . 
In good time the seeds sprouted , and the dry , brown earth was covered with a carpet of tender , green , growing things . 
No farmer's garden at home in the East could have looked better than the great garden of the desert valley . 
And from day to day the little shoots grew and flourished till they were all well above the ground . 
Then a terrible thing happened . 
One day the men who were watering the crops saw a great number of crickets swarming over the ground at the edge of the gardens nearest the mountains . 
They were hopping from the barren places into the young , green crops , and as they settled down they ate the tiny shoots and leaves to the ground . 
More came , and more , and ever more , and as they came they spread out till they covered a big corner of the grain field . 
And still more and more , till it was like an army of black , hopping , crawling crickets , streaming down the side of the mountain to kill the crops . 
The men tried to kill the crickets by beating the ground , but the numbers were so great that it was like beating at the sea . 
Then they ran and told the terrible news , and all the village came to help . 
They started fires they dug trenches and filled them with water they ran wildly about in the fields , killing what they could . 
But while they fought in one place new armies of crickets marched down the mountain sides and attacked the fields in other places . 
And at last the people fell on their knees and wept and cried in despair , for they saw starvation and death in the fields . 
A few knelt to pray . 
Others gathered round and joined them , weeping . 
More left their useless struggles and knelt beside their neighbors . 
At last nearly all the people were kneeling on the desolate fields praying for deliverance from the plague of crickets . 
Suddenly , from far off in the air toward the great salt lake , there was the sound of flapping wings . 
Some of the people looked up , startled . 
They saw , like a white cloud rising from the lake , a flock of sea gulls flying toward them . 
Snow white in the sun , with great wings beating and soaring , in hundreds and hundreds , they rose and circled and came on . 
The gulls ! the gulls ! was the cry . 
Oh ! woe ! woe ! cried the people . 
The gulls devoured the crickets in dozens , in hundreds , in swarms . 
They ate until they were gorged , and then they flew heavily back to the lake , only to come again with new appetite . 
And when at last they finished , they had stripped the fields of the cricket army and the people were saved . 
To this day , in the beautiful city of Salt Lake , which grew out of that pioneer village , the little children are taught to love the sea gulls . 
And when they learn drawing and weaving in the schools , their first design is often a picture of a cricket and a gull . 
THE NIGHTINGALE Adapted from Hans Christian Andersen . 
And in this wood lived a little Nightingale . 
The Nightingale sang so beautifully that everybody who heard her remembered her song better than anything else that he heard or saw . 
At last it happened that the Emperor came upon a book which said this , and he at once sent for his Chamberlain . 
Who is this Nightingale ? said the Emperor . 
Why have I never heard him sing ? The Chamberlain , who was a very important person , said , There cannot be any such person I have never heard his name . 
The book says there is a Nightingale , said the Emperor . 
I command that the Nightingale be brought here to sing for me this evening . 
The Chamberlain went out and asked all the great lords and ladies and pages where the Nightingale could be found , but not one of them had ever heard of him . 
So the Chamberlain went back to the Emperor and said , There is no such person . 
The Chamberlain did not want to be trampled upon , so he ran out and asked everybody in the palace about the Nightingale . 
At last , a little girl who worked in the kitchen to help the cook's helper , said , Oh , yes , I know the Nightingale very well . 
Every night , when I go to carry scraps from the kitchen to my mother , who lives in the wood beyond the forest , I hear the Nightingale sing . 
The Chamberlain asked the little cook maid to take him to the Nightingale's home , and many of the lords and ladies followed after . 
When they had gone a little way , they heard a cow moo . 
A little farther on they heard some bull frogs , in a swamp . 
Surely that is the Nightingale , said the courtiers it really sounds like church bells ! Oh , no , said the little girl , those are bullfrogs , croaking . 
At last they came to the wood where the Nightingale was . 
Hush ! said the little girl , she is going to sing . 
And , sure enough , the little Nightingale began to sing . 
She sang so beautifully that you have never in all your life heard anything like it . 
The Chamberlain asked the little Nightingale to come and sing for the Emperor . 
The little Nightingale said she could sing better in her own greenwood , but she was so sweet and kind that she came with them . 
In the great hall there was a gold perch for the Nightingale , beside the Emperor's throne . 
When all the people were there , the Emperor asked the Nightingale to sing . 
Then the little gray Nightingale filled her throat full , and sang . 
And , my dears , she sang so beautifully that the Emperor's eyes filled up with tears ! And , you know , emperors do not cry at all easily . 
So he asked her to sing again , and this time she sang so marvelously that the tears came out of his eyes and ran down his cheeks . 
That was a great success . 
They asked the little Nightingale to sing , over and over again , and when they had listened enough the Emperor said that she should be made Singer in Chief to the Court . 
She was to have a golden perch near the Emperor's bed , and a little gold cage , and was to be allowed to go out twice every day . 
And when the courtiers met each other in the halls , one would say Night , and the other would say ingale , and that was conversation . 
At last , one day , there came a little package to the Emperor , on the outside of which was written , The Nightingale . 
Inside was an artificial bird , something like a Nightingale , only it was made of gold , and silver , and rubies , and emeralds , and diamonds . 
When it was wound up it played a waltz tune , and as it played it moved its little tail up and down . 
Everybody in the court was filled with delight at the music of the new nightingale . 
They made it sing that same tune thirty three times , and still they had not had enough . 
They would have made it sing the tune thirty four times , but the Emperor said , I should like to hear the real Nightingale sing , now . 
What a very ungrateful bird ! said the lords and ladies . 
But it does not matter the new nightingale is just as good . 
So the artificial nightingale was given the real Nightingale's little gold perch , and every night the Emperor wound her up , and she sang waltz tunes to him . 
The people in the court liked her even better than the old Nightingale , because they could all whistle her tunes , which you can't do with real nightingales . 
The Emperor ran to his doctor but he could not do anything . 
Then he ran to his clock maker , but he could not do much . 
The best they could do was to patch the gold nightingale up so that it could sing once a year even that was almost too much , and the tune was pretty shaky . 
Still , the Emperor kept the gold nightingale on the perch in his own room . 
A long time went by , and then , at last , the Emperor grew very ill , and was about to die . 
When it was sure that he could not live much longer , the people chose a new emperor and waited for the old one to die . 
The poor Emperor lay , quite cold and pale , in his great big bed , with velvet curtains , and tall candlesticks all about . 
He was quite alone , for all the courtiers had gone to congratulate the new emperor , and all the servants had gone to talk it over . 
When the Emperor woke up , he felt a terrible weight on his chest . 
He opened his eyes , and there was Death , sitting on his heart . 
The room was full of shadows , and the shadows were full of faces . 
Everywhere the Emperor looked , there were faces . 
Some were very , very ugly , and some were sweet and lovely they were all the things the Emperor had done in his life , good and bad . 
And as he looked at them they began to whisper . 
The Emperor's heart grew colder and colder where Death crouched upon it , and the dreadful whispers grew louder and louder , and the Emperor's life was almost gone . 
Suddenly , through the open window , there came a most lovely song . 
It was so sweet and so loud that the whispers died quite away . 
Yes , said Death and the little Nightingale bought the Emperor's crown for a song . 
Oh , sing again , little Nightingale , begged Death . 
Will you give me the Emperor's sceptre for another song ? said the little gray Nightingale . 
Yes , said Death and the little Nightingale bought the Emperor's sceptre for another song . 
Once more Death begged for a song , and this time the little Nightingale got the banner for her singing . 
Then she sang one more song , so sweet and so sad that it made Death think of his garden in the churchyard , where he always liked best to be . 
And he rose from the Emperor's heart and floated away through the window . 
When Death was gone , the Emperor said to the little Nightingale , Oh , dear little Nightingale , you have saved me from Death ! Do not leave me again . 
Only , dear Emperor , be sure that you never let anybody know that you have a little bird who tells you everything . 
After the little Nightingale had flown away , the Emperor felt so well and strong that he dressed himself in his royal robes and took his gold sceptre in his hand . 
Nevertheless , there is a legitimate place for the instruction story . 
Within its own limits , and especially in a school use , it has a real purpose to serve , and a real desire to meet . 
Children have a genuine taste for such morsels of practical information , if the bites aren't made too big and too solid . 
And to the teacher of the first grades , from whom so much is demanded in the way of practical instruction , I know that these stories are a boon . 
They must be chosen with care , and used with discretion , but they need never be ignored . 
There was once a little girl named Margery , who had always lived in the city . 
They seemed always to be finished , though , and Margery was always wishing she could see them grow . 
It was in the grassy land that the garden was to be . 
A big piece was to be used for corn and peas and beans , and a little piece at the end was to be saved for Margery . 
What shall we have in it ? asked her mother . 
Oh ! how good it sounds ! said Margery . 
I vote for the salad garden . 
Papa , it is glorious ! said Margery . 
I wouldn't NOT take care of it for anything ! said Margery . 
I want to feel that it is my very own . 
Her father kissed her , and said it was certainly her very own . 
Two evenings after that , when Margery was called in from her first ramble in a really , truly pasture , she found the expressman at the door of the little house . 
Something for you , Margery , said her mother , with the look she had when something nice was happening . 
It was a box , quite a big box , with a label on it that said MISS MARGERY BROWN , WOODVILLE , MASS . 
From Seeds and Plants Company , Boston . 
Margery could hardly wait to open it . 
It was filled with little packages , all with printed labels and in the packages , of course , were seeds . 
Only , she had seen so little of flowers that she did not always know what the names meant . 
You know , dear , the ground has to be made ready first it takes a little time , it may be several days before you can plant . 
Margery had thought she could begin to sow the seed right off . 
But this was what was done . 
Early the next morning , a man came driving into the yard , with two strong white horses in his wagon was a plough . 
It was a great , three cornered piece of sharp steel , with long handles coming up from it , so that a man could hold it in place . 
It looked like this I brought a two horse plough because it's green land , the man said . 
So Margery had learned what green land was . 
The man was for two hours ploughing the little strip of land . 
He drove the sharp end of the plough into the soil , and held it firmly so , while the horses dragged it along in a straight line . 
Margery found it fascinating to see the long line of dark earth and green grass come rolling up and turn over , as the knife passed it . 
She could see that it took real skill and strength to keep the line even , and to avoid the stones . 
Sometimes the plough struck a hidden stone , and then the man was jerked almost off his feet . 
But he only laughed , and said , Tough piece of land be a lot better the second year . 
When he had ploughed , the man went back to his cart and unloaded another farm implement . 
This one was like a three cornered platform of wood , with a long , curved , strong rake under it . 
It was fun to watch , but perhaps it was a little hard to do . 
The man's weight kept the harrow steady , and let the teeth of the rake scratch and cut the ground up , so that it did not stay in ridges . 
He scrambles the ground , father ! said Margery . 
It needs scrambling , laughed her father . 
We are going to get more weeds than we want on this green land , and the more the ground is broken , the fewer there will be . 
So Margery did not see any more done until the next day . 
Now , Margery's father put the fertilizer on the top , and then raked it into the earth . 
At last , it was time to make the place for the seeds . 
Margery and her mother helped . 
Father tied one end of a cord to a little stake , and drove the stake in the ground at one end of the garden . 
Then he took the cord to the other end of the garden and pulled it tight , tied it to another stake , and drove that down . 
That made a straight line for him to see . 
Then he hoed a trench , a few inches deep , the whole length of the cord , and scattered fertilizer in it . 
Pretty soon the whole garden was in lines of little trenches . 
Now for the corn , said father . 
Margery ran and brought the seed box , and found the package of corn . 
It looked like kernels of gold , when it was opened . 
May I help ? Margery asked , when she saw how pretty it was . 
If you watch me sow one row , I think you can do the next , said her father . 
It was pretty to watch it made Margery think of a photograph her teacher had , a photograph of a famous picture called The Sower . 
Perhaps you have seen it . 
They planted peas , beans , spinach , carrots , and parsnips . 
And Margery's father made a row of holes , after that , for the tomato plants . 
He said those had to be transplanted they could not be sown from seed . 
When the seeds were in the trenches they had to be covered up , and Margery really helped at that . 
It is fun to do it . 
Then you rake very gently over the surface , with the back of a rake , to even it all off . 
Margery liked it , because now the garden began to look LIKE a garden . 
But best of all was the work next day , when her own little particular garden was begun . 
Father Brown loved Margery and Margery's mother so much that he wanted their garden to be perfect , and that meant a great deal more work . 
He knew very well that the old grass would begin to come through again on such green soil , and that it would make terribly hard weeding . 
He was not going to have any such thing for his two little girls , as he called them . 
So he fixed that little garden very fine ! This is what he did . 
Then it was ready for raking and fertilizing , and for the lines . 
The little footpaths were marked out by Father Brown's feet Margery and her mother laughed well when they saw it , for it looked like some kind of dance . 
This tramped out a path just wide enough for a person to walk . 
The wider path was marked with lines and raked . 
Margery thought , of course , all the flowers would be put in as the vegetables were but she found that it was not so . 
Margery and her mother had taken so much pains in thinking out how the flowers would look prettiest , that maybe you will like to hear just how they designed that garden . 
Margery planned that , so that she could look into the garden from the front , but have it shut away from the vegetable patch by the tall flowers on the sides . 
The two front corners had coreopsis in them . 
Coreopsis is a tall , pretty , daisy like flower , very dainty and bright . 
And then , in little square patches all round the garden , were planted white sweet alyssum , blue bachelor's buttons , yellow marigolds , tall larkspur , many colored asters and zinnias . 
All these lovely flowers used to grow in our grandmothers' gardens , and if you don't know what they look like , I hope you can find out next summer . 
Between the flowers and the middle path went the seeds for that wonderful salad garden all the things Mrs. Brown had named to Margery were there . 
Margery had never seen anything so cunning as the little round lettuce seeds . 
They looked like tiny beads it did not seem possible that green lettuce leaves could come from those . 
Mother and father and Margery were all late to supper that evening . 
But they were all so happy that it did not matter . 
I have a garden ! I have a garden ! thought Margery , and then she went off to dreamland . 
THE LITTLE COTYLEDONS This is another story about Margery's garden . 
The next morning after the garden was planted , Margery was up and out at six o'clock . 
She could not wait to look at her garden . 
To be sure , she knew that the seeds could not sprout in a single night , but she had a feeling that SOMETHING might happen while she was not looking . 
The garden was just as smooth and brown as the night before , and no little seeds were in sight . 
But a very few mornings after that , when Margery went out , there was a funny little crack opening up through the earth , the whole length of the patch . 
Quickly she knelt down in the footpath , to see . 
She examined them very closely , so that she might know a radish next time . 
The little leaves , no bigger than half your little finger nail , grew in twos , two on each tiny stem they were almost round . 
Margery flew back to her mother , to say that the first seeds were up . 
And her mother , nearly as excited as Margery , came to look at the little crack . 
Each day , after that , the row of radishes grew , till , in a week , it stood as high as your finger , green and sturdy . 
But about the third day , while Margery was stooping over the radishes , she saw something very , very small and green , peeping above ground , where the lettuce was planted . 
Could it be weeds ? No , for on looking very closely she saw that the wee leaves faintly marked a regular row . 
They did not make a crack , like the radishes they seemed too small and too far apart to push the earth up like that . 
Margery leaned down and looked with all her eyes at the baby plants . 
The tiny leaves grew two on a stem , and were almost round . 
The more she looked at them the more it seemed to Margery that they looked exactly as the radish looked when it first came up . 
Then , one morning , while she was searching the ground for signs of seeds , Margery discovered the beets . 
In irregular patches on the row , hints of green were coming . 
The next day and the next they grew , until the beet leaves were big enough to see . 
Then she wrinkled her forehead . 
Can we have made a mistake ? she thought . 
It was too much for Margery . 
She ran to the house and found her father . 
Her little face was so anxious that he thought something unpleasant had happened . 
What makes you think such a thing ? he asked . 
Papa's eyes began to twinkle . 
Many of the dicotyledonous plants look alike at the beginning , he said , with a little drawl on the big word . 
That was to tease Margery , because she always wanted to know the big words she heard . 
What's dicotyledonous' ? said Margery , carefully . 
Wait till I come home to night , dear , said her father , and I'll tell you . 
That evening Margery was waiting eagerly for him , when her father finished his supper . 
Together they went to the garden , and father examined the seedlings carefully . 
Then he pulled up a little radish plant and a tiny beet . 
As soon as the real leaves come out and begin to draw food from the air , these little substitutes wither up and fall off . 
These two lie folded up in the little seed from the beginning , and are full of plant food . 
They don't have to be very special in shape , you see , because they don't stay on the plant after it is grown up . 
Then every plant looks like this at first ? said Margery . 
Many of the dicotyledons look alike . 
I think that is interesting , said Margery . 
I always supposed the plants were different from the minute they began to grow . 
Indeed , no , said father . 
They have to be taught the difference between a birch tree and a weed . 
How funny ! said Margery dimpling . 
Yes , it sounds funny , said father but you see , the birch tree is dicotyledonous , and so are many weeds , and the dicotyledons look much alike at first . 
I am glad to know that , father , said Margery , soberly . 
I believe maybe I shall learn a good deal from living in the country don't you think so ? Margery's father took her in his arms . 
I hope so , dear , he said the country is a good place for little girls . 
And that was all that happened , that day . 
THE TALKATIVE TORTOISE Very freely adapted from one of the Fables of Bidpai . 
Once upon a time , a Tortoise lived in a pond with two Ducks , who were her very good friends . 
She enjoyed the company of the Ducks , because she could talk with them to her heart's content the Tortoise liked to talk . 
She always had something to say , and she liked to hear herself say it . 
After many years of this pleasant living , the pond became very low , in a dry season and finally it dried up . 
The two Ducks saw that they could no longer live there , so they decided to fly to another region , where there was more water . 
They went to the Tortoise to bid her good by . 
Oh , don't leave me behind ! begged the Tortoise . 
Take me with you I must die if I am left here . 
But you cannot fly ! said the Ducks . 
How can we take you with us ? Take me with you ! take me with you ! said the Tortoise . 
The Ducks felt so sorry for her that at last they thought of a way to take her . 
We have thought of a way which will be possible , they said , if only you can manage to keep still long enough . 
But remember not to talk ! If you open your mouth , you are lost . 
The Tortoise said she would not say a word she would not so much as move her mouth and she was very grateful . 
So the Ducks brought a strong little stick and took hold of the ends , while the Tortoise bit firmly on the middle . 
Then the two Ducks rose slowly in the air and flew away with their burden . 
When they were above the treetops , the Tortoise wanted to say , How high we are ! But she remembered , and kept still . 
When they passed the church steeple she wanted to say , What is that which shines ? But she remembered , and held her peace . 
Then they came over the village square , and the people looked up and saw them . 
Look at the Ducks carrying a Tortoise ! they shouted and every one ran to look . 
The Tortoise wanted to say , What business is it of yours ? But she didn't . 
And that was the end of the Tortoise . 
It is a very good thing to be able to hold one's tongue ! ROBERT OF SICILY Adapted from Longfellow's poem . 
An old legend says that there was once a king named Robert of Sicily , who was brother to the great Pope of Rome and to the Emperor of Allemaine . 
The choir was chanting the Latin service , and as the beautiful voices swelled louder , the king noticed one particular verse which seemed to be repeated again and again . 
He turned to a learned clerk at his side and asked what those words meant , for he knew no Latin . 
They mean , He hath put down the mighty from their seats , and hath exalted them of low degree , answered the clerk . 
It is well the words are in Latin , then , said the king angrily , for they are a lie . 
There is no power on earth or in heaven which can put me down from my seat ! And he sneered at the beautiful singing , as he leaned back in his place . 
Presently the king fell asleep , while the service went on . 
He slept deeply and long . 
When he awoke the church was dark and still , and he was all alone . 
The old sexton heard some one shouting and pounding in the church , and thought it was some drunken vagabond who had stolen in during the service . 
It is a crazy man , thought the sexton and he was frightened . 
He opened the doors carefully and stood back , peering into the darkness . 
Out past him rushed the figure of a man in tattered , scanty clothes , with unkempt hair and white , wild face . 
The sexton did not know that he had ever seen him before , but he looked long after him , wondering at his wildness and his haste . 
Men and women servants tried to stop the ragged man , who had somehow got into the palace , but Robert did not even see them as he fled along . 
Straight to the open doors of the big banquet hall he made his way , and into the midst of the grand feast there . 
His face , his figure , his voice were exactly like Robert of Sicily no human being could have told the difference no one dreamed that he was not the king . 
He was dressed in the king's royal robes , he wore the royal crown , and on his hand was the king's own ring . 
Robert of Sicily , half naked , ragged , without a sign of his kingship on him , stood before the throne and stared with fury at this figure of himself . 
The king on the throne looked at him . 
Who art thou , and what dost thou here ? he asked . 
And though his voice was just like Robert's own , it had something in it sweet and deep , like the sound of bells . 
I am the king ! cried Robert of Sicily . 
I am the king , and you are an impostor ! The courtiers started from their seats , and drew their swords . 
You shall be the servant of the servants , and your companion shall be the jester's ape . 
It was like a terrible dream he could not believe it true , he could not understand what had happened to him . 
And when he woke next morning , he believed it was a dream , and that he was king again . 
Robert of Sicily was a jester , and no one knew him for the king . 
Sicily was happy and all things went well under the king , who was not Robert . 
Robert was still the jester , and his heart was harder and bitterer with every year . 
But each time Robert threw back his head and answered , proudly , I am the king ! And the king's eyes grew sad and stern . 
At the end of three years , the Pope bade the Emperor of Allemaine and the King of Sicily , his brothers , to a great meeting in his city of Rome . 
The King of Sicily went , with all his soldiers and courtiers and servants , a great procession of horsemen and footmen . 
Never had been a gayer sight than the grand train , men in bright armor , riders in wonderful cloaks of velvet and silk , servants , carrying marvelous presents to the Pope . 
And at the very end rode Robert , the jester . 
His horse was a poor old thing , many colored , and the ape rode with him . 
Every one in the villages through which they passed ran after the jester , and pointed and laughed . 
The Pope received his brothers and their trains in the square before Saint Peter's . 
With music and flags and flowers he made the King of Sicily welcome , and greeted him as his brother . 
In the midst of it , the jester broke through the crowd and threw himself before the Pope . 
Look at me ! he cried I am your brother , Robert of Sicily ! This man is an impostor , who has stolen my throne . 
It was Holy Week , and the king and the emperor , with all their trains , went every day to the great services in the cathedral . 
Something wonderful and holy seemed to make all these services more beautiful than ever before . 
All the people of Rome felt it it was as if the presence of an angel were there . 
Men thought of God , and felt his blessing on them . 
But no one knew who it was that brought the beautiful feeling . 
Robert of Sicily went to the services with the rest , and sat in the humblest place with the servants . 
And at last , as he listened , his heart was softened . 
He , too , felt the strange blessed presence of a heavenly power . 
At last all the festivities were over , and the King of Sicily went home to his own land again , with his people . 
Robert the jester came home too . 
The sound of their singing came softly in at the palace windows . 
In the great banquet room , the king sat , wearing his royal robes and his crown , while many subjects came to greet him . 
At last , he sent them all away , saying he wanted to be alone but he commanded the jester to stay . 
Thou knowest best , he said , I only know that I have sinned . 
As he spoke , he heard the voices of the monks singing , He hath put down the mighty from their seat , and his head sank lower . 
But suddenly the music seemed to change a wonderful light shone all about . 
His royal robes were upon him once more he wore his crown and his royal ring . 
And when the courtiers came back they found their king kneeling by his throne , absorbed in silent prayer . 
THE JEALOUS COURTIERS Adapted from the facts given in the German of H. A. Guerber's Marchen und Erzahlungen . 
I wonder if you have ever heard the anecdote about the artist of Dusseldorf and the jealous courtiers . 
It seems there was once a very famous artist who lived in the little town of Dusseldorf . 
He did such fine work that the Elector , Prince Johann Wilhelm , ordered a portrait statue of himself , on horseback , to be done in bronze . 
The artist was overjoyed at the commission , and worked early and late at the statue . 
At last the work was done , and the artist had the great statue set up in the public square of Dusseldorf , ready for the opening view . 
The Elector came on the appointed day , and with him came his favorite courtiers from the castle . 
Then the statue was unveiled . 
It was very beautiful , so beautiful that the prince exclaimed in surprise . 
He could not look enough , and presently he turned to the artist and shook hands with him , like an old friend . 
Their one thought was , how could they safely do something to humiliate him . 
They dared not pick flaws in the portrait statue , for the prince had declared it perfect . 
No , said another , the horse is really not so successful the turn of the neck , there , is awkward . 
If you would change the right hind foot , Herr Grupello , said a third , it would be an improvement . 
Still another found fault with the horse's tail . 
The artist listened , quietly . 
For several days the sound of hammering came steadily from behind the enclosure . 
The courtiers , who took care to pass that way , often , were delighted . 
Again the Elector exclaimed at its beauty , and then he turned to his courtiers , one after another , to see what they had to say . 
Perfect ! said the first . 
Now that the horse's head is in proportion , there is not a flaw . 
The change in the neck was just what was needed , said the second it is very graceful now . 
My courtiers are much pleased now , said the prince to Herr Grupello they think the statue much improved by the changes you have made . 
Herr Grupello smiled a little . 
I am glad they are pleased , he said , but the fact is , I have changed nothing ! What do you mean ? said the prince in surprise . 
And I rather think that their reputation is pretty well hammered to pieces ! It was , indeed . 
The Elector laughed heartily , but the courtiers slunk away , one after another , without a word . 
PRINCE CHERRY A shortened version of the familiar tale . 
Surely you know it , said the good king it is for my only son , Prince Cherry do for him whatever you would have done for me . 
Gladly , said the great fairy choose what I shall give him . 
I can make him the richest , the most beautiful , or the most powerful prince in the world choose . 
None of those things are what I want , said the king . 
I want only that he shall be good . 
The king was sad to hear this , but he rejoiced in the friendship of the fairy for his son . 
And when he died , soon after , he was happy to know that he left Prince Cherry in her hands . 
Prince Cherry grieved for his father and often lay awake at night , thinking of him . 
One night , when he was all alone in his room , a soft and lovely light suddenly shone before him , and a beautiful vision stood at his side . 
It was the good fairy . 
She was clad in robes of dazzling white , and on her shining hair she wore a wreath of white roses . 
I am the Fairy Candide , she said to the prince . 
I promised your father that I would be your best friend , and as long as you live I shall watch over your happiness . 
I have brought you a gift it is not wonderful to look at , but it has a wonderful power for your welfare wear it , and let it help you . 
As she spoke , she placed a small gold ring on the prince's little finger . 
This ring , she said , will help you to be good when you do evil , it will prick you , to remind you . 
If you do not heed its warnings a worse thing will happen to you , for I shall become your enemy . 
Prince Cherry wore his ring , and said nothing to any one of the fairy's gift . 
It did not prick him for a long time , because he was good and merry and happy . 
Now , after a while , he began to find out that this was not true , and it made him angry . 
The first time that he noticed that even a king could not always have his own way was on a day when he went hunting . 
It happened that he got no game . 
This put him in such a bad temper that he grumbled and scolded all the way home . 
The little gold ring began to feel tight and uncomfortable . 
When he reached the palace his pet dog ran to meet him . 
Go away ! said the prince , crossly . 
But the little dog was so used to being petted that he only jumped up on his master , and tried to kiss his hand . 
The prince turned and kicked the little creature . 
At the instant , he felt a sharp prick in his little finger , like a pin prick . 
What nonsense ! said the prince to himself . 
The prince turned sharply , but no one was to be seen yet he recognized the voice as that of Fairy Candide . 
He followed her advice for a little , but presently he forgot , and the ring pricked him so sharply that his finger had a drop of blood on it . 
He treated his people carelessly and his servants cruelly , and everything he wanted he felt that he must have . 
Then he thought he should be perfectly happy , having his own way but instead , he grew more unhappy as he grew less good . 
Whenever he was crossed , or could not have his own way instantly , he flew into a passion , Finally , he wanted something that he really could not have . 
This time it was a most beautiful young girl , named Zelia the prince saw her , and loved her so much that he wanted at once to make her his queen . 
To his great astonishment , she refused . 
Am I not pleasing to you ? asked the prince in surprise . 
In a great rage , Prince Cherry ordered the young girl put in prison and the key of her dungeon he kept . 
He told one of his friends , a wicked man who flattered him for his own purposes , about the thing , and asked his advice . 
But would it not be a disgrace for me to harm an innocent creature ? said the prince . 
It would be a disgrace to you to have it said that one of your subjects dared disobey you ! said the courtier . 
He had cleverly touched the Prince's worst trait , his pride . 
Prince Cherry went at once to Zelia's dungeon , prepared to do this cruel thing . 
No one had the key save the prince himself yet she was gone . 
The only person who could have dared to help her , thought the prince , was his old tutor , Suliman , the only man left who ever rebuked him for anything . 
In fury , he ordered Suliman to be put in fetters and brought before him . 
As his servants left him , to carry out the wicked order , there was a clash , as of thunder , in the room , and then a blinding light . 
Fairy Candide stood before him . 
He tried to rush upon the fairy and kill her , but she had vanished with her words . 
As he stood , her voice came from the air , saying , sadly , Learn to conquer your pride by being in submission to your own subjects . 
At the same moment , Prince Cherry felt himself being transported to a distant forest , where he was set down by a clear stream . 
In the water he saw his own terrible image he had the head of a lion , with bull's horns , the feet of a wolf , and a tail like a serpent . 
And as he gazed in horror , the fairy's voice whispered , Your soul has become more ugly than your shape is you yourself have deformed it . 
The poor beast rushed away from the sound of her words , but in a moment he stumbled into a trap , set by bear catchers . 
When the trappers found him they were delighted to have caught a curiosity , and they immediately dragged him to the palace courtyard . 
There he heard the whole court buzzing with gossip . 
Even as he heard this , the prince saw Suliman on the steps of the palace , speaking to the people . 
I will take the crown to keep in trust , he said . 
Perhaps the prince is not dead . 
He was a bad king we do not want him back , said the people . 
I know his heart , said Suliman , it is not all bad it is tainted , but not corrupt perhaps he will repent and come back to us a good king . 
When the beast heard this , it touched him so much that he stopped tearing at his chains , and became gentle . 
He let his keepers lead him away to the royal menagerie without hurting them . 
Life was very terrible to the prince , now , but he began to see that he had brought all his sorrow on himself , and he tried to bear it patiently . 
The worst to bear was the cruelty of the keeper . 
At last , one night , this keeper was in great danger a tiger got loose , and attacked him . 
Good enough ! Let him die ! thought Prince Cherry . 
But when he saw how helpless the keeper was , he repented , and sprang to help . 
He killed the tiger and saved the keeper's life . 
As he crouched at the keeper's feet , a voice said , Good actions never go unrewarded ! And the terrible monster was changed into a pretty little white dog . 
The keeper carried the beautiful little dog to the court and told the story , and from then on , Cherry was carefully treated , and had the best of everything . 
But in order to keep the little dog from growing , the queen ordered that he should be fed very little , and that was pretty hard for the poor prince . 
He was often half starved , although so much petted . 
Poor thing , he thought , she is even hungrier than I and he ran up and dropped the crust at her feet . 
The woman ate it , and seemed greatly refreshed . 
That could not stop them they drove him off , with blows , and carried Zelia into a palace in the wood . 
Poor Cherry crouched by the steps , and watched . 
His heart was full of pity and rage . 
But suddenly he thought , I was as bad as these men I myself put Zelia in prison , and would have treated her worse still , if I had not been prevented . 
The thought made him so sorry and ashamed that he repented bitterly the evil he had done . 
Presently a window opened , and Cherry saw Zelia lean out and throw down a piece of meat . 
He seized it and was just going to devour it , when the old woman to whom he had given his crust snatched it away and took him in her arms . 
No , you shall not eat it , you poor little thing , she said , for every bit of food in that house is poisoned . 
At the same moment , a voice said , Good actions never go unrewarded ! And instantly Prince Cherry was transformed into a little white dove . 
With great joy , he flew to the open palace window to seek out his Zelia , to try to help her . 
But though he hunted in every room , no Zelia was to be found . 
He had to fly away , without seeing her . 
He wanted more than anything else to find her , and stay near her , so he flew out into the world , to seek her . 
Cherry was wild with delight . 
He flew to her shoulder , caressed her hair with his beak , and cooed in her ear . 
You dear , lovely little thing ! said Zelia . 
Will you stay with me ? If you will , I will love you always . 
Ah , Zelia , see what you have done ! laughed the hermit . 
At the same time , the hermit stood up , his flowing hair changed to shining gold , and his face became a lovely woman's face it was the Fairy Candide . 
Zelia has broken your spell , she said to the Prince , as I meant she should , when you were worthy of her love . 
Zelia and Prince Cherry fell at the fairy's feet . 
But with a beautiful smile she bade them come to their kingdom . 
In a trice , they were transported to the Prince's palace , where King Suliman greeted them with tears of joy . 
He gave back the throne , with all his heart , and King Cherry ruled again , with Zelia for his queen . 
He wore the little gold ring all the rest of his life , but never once did it have to prick him hard enough to make his finger bleed . 
THE GOLD IN THE ORCHARD An Italian folk tale . 
There was once a farmer who had a fine olive orchard . 
He was very industrious , and the farm always prospered under his care . 
But he knew that his three sons despised the farm work , and were eager to make wealth fast , through adventure . 
Dig for it , if you wish it . 
The sons tried to get him to tell them in what part of the orchard the gold was hidden but he would tell them nothing more . 
They dug until they had turned up the soil from one end of the orchard to the other , round the tree roots and between them . 
But no pot of gold was to be found . 
It seemed as if some one must have stolen it , or as if the farmer had been wandering in his wits . 
The three sons were bitterly disappointed to have all their work for nothing . 
It is the statue of a woman , sitting in a low chair , with her arms around a child , who leans against her . 
Now there is something very surprising about this statue it was the first one that was ever made in this country in honor of a woman . 
Even in old Europe there are not many monuments to women , and most of the few are to great queens or princesses , very beautiful and very richly dressed . 
You see , this statue in New Orleans is not quite like anything else . 
It is the statue of a woman named Margaret . 
This is her story , and it tells why people made a monument for her . 
When Margaret was a tiny baby , her father and mother died , and she was adopted by two young people as poor and as kind as her own parents . 
She lived with them until she grew up . 
Then she married , and had a little baby of her own . 
But very soon her husband died , and then the baby died , too , and Margaret was all alone in the world . 
She was poor , but she was strong , and knew how to work . 
All day , from morning until evening , she ironed clothes in a laundry . 
And every day , as she worked by the window , she saw the little motherless children from the orphan asylum , near by , working and playing about . 
After a while , there came a great sickness upon the city , and so many mothers and fathers died that there were more orphans than the asylum could possibly take care of . 
They needed a good friend , now . 
You would hardly think , would you , that a poor woman who worked in a laundry could be much of a friend to them ? But Margaret was . 
She went straight to the kind Sisters who had the asylum and told them she was going to give them part of her wages and was going to work for them , besides . 
Pretty soon she had worked so hard that she had some money saved from her wages . 
With this , she bought two cows and a little delivery cart . 
In the very hardest times that was often all the food the children had . 
A part of the money Margaret earned went every week to the asylum , and after a few years that was made very much larger and better . 
And Margaret was so careful and so good at business that , in spite of her giving , she bought more cows and earned more money . 
With this , she built a home for orphan babies she called it her baby house . 
After a time , Margaret had a chance to get a bakery , and then she became a bread woman instead of a milk woman . 
She carried the bread just as she had carried the milk , in her cart . 
And still she kept giving money to the asylum . 
Then the great war came , our Civil War . 
And despite all this , she earned enough so that when the war was over she built a big steam factory for her bread . 
By this time everybody in the city knew her . 
The children all over the city loved her the business men were proud of her the poor people all came to her for advice . 
She used to sit at the open door of her office , in a calico gown and a little shawl , and give a good word to everybody , rich or poor . 
Then , by and by , one day , Margaret died . 
Whether they were for white children or black , for Jews , Catholics , or Protestants , made no difference for Margaret always said , They are all orphans alike . 
So they made a statue of her , just as she used to look , sitting in her own office door , or driving in her own little cart . 
And there it stands to day , in memory of the great love and the great power of plain Margaret Haughery , of New Orleans . 
THE DAGDA'S HARP The facts from which this story was constructed are found in the legend as given in Ireland's Story , Johnston and Spencer . 
You know , dears , in the old countries there are many fine stories about things which happened so very long ago that nobody knows exactly how much of them is true . 
The stories are called LEGENDS . 
One of the prettiest legends is the story I am going to tell you about the Dagda's harp . 
The golden haired people had a great chieftain who was also a kind of high priest , who was called the Dagda . 
And this Dagda had a wonderful magic harp . 
Their wives and children and some few of their soldiers went with them , and they fled fast and far through the night , until they were a long way from the battlefield . 
The Dagda , with two or three of his warriors , had followed hard on their track . 
And while they were in the midst of their banqueting , the door was suddenly burst open , and the Dagda stood there , with his men . 
Whirling through the hall , sweeping aside and killing the men who got in its way , it sprang to its master's hand . 
And the Dagda took his harp and swept his hand across the strings in three great , solemn chords . 
The harp answered with the magic Music of Tears . 
Again the Dagda touched the strings , and this time the magic Music of Mirth leaped from the harp . 
Once more the Dagda touched his harp , but very , very softly . 
And now a music stole forth as soft as dreams , and as sweet as joy it was the magic Music of Sleep . 
THE TAILOR AND THE THREE BEASTS From Beside the Fire , Douglas Hyde . 
There was once a tailor in Galway , and he started out on a journey to go to the king's court at Dublin . 
He had not gone far till he met a white horse , and he saluted him . 
God save you , said the tailor . 
God save you , said the horse . 
For , it seems the king had promised his daughter and a great lot of money to any one who should be able to build up his court . 
The trouble was , that three giants lived in the wood near the court , and every night they came out of the wood and threw down all that was built by day . 
So nobody could get the court built . 
I'll do that , indeed , said the tailor , and welcome . 
The white horse went down into the hole , but when he tried to come up again , he was not able . 
Make a place for me now , said the white horse , by which I'll come up out of the hole here , whenever I'll be hungry . 
I will not , said the tailor remain where you are until I come back , and I'll lift you up . 
The tailor went forward next day , and the fox met him . 
God save you , said the fox . 
God save you , said the tailor . 
Where are you going , said the fox . 
I'm going to Dublin , to try will I be able to make a court for the king . 
Would you make a place for me where I'd go hiding ? said the fox . 
The rest of the foxes do be beating me , and they don't allow me to eat anything with them . 
I'll do that for you , said the tailor . 
The fox went into it , and when the tailor got him down , he shut him in . 
Wait there until I come back again , says he . 
The tailor went forward the next day , and he had not walked very far until he met a modder alla and the lion greeted him . 
God save you , said the lion . 
God save you , said the tailor . 
Where are you going ? said the lion . 
I'm going to Dublin till I make a court for the king if I'm able to make it , said the tailor . 
I'll do that for you , said the tailor . 
He brought his axe and his saw , and he made a plough . 
He placed the lion's tail in the hole he had made for it , and then clapped in a peg , and the lion was not able to draw out his tail again . 
Loose me out now , said the lion , and we'll fix ourselves and go ploughing . 
The tailor said he would not loose him out until he came back himself . 
He left him there then , and he came to Dublin . 
When he came to Dublin , he got workmen and began to build the court . 
At the end of the day he had the workmen put a great stone on top of the work . 
The workpeople went home then , and the tailor went in hiding behind the big stone . 
The tailor threw down the stone , and it fell on him and killed him . 
They went home then and left all of the court that was remaining without throwing it down , since a man of themselves was dead . 
They did that for him , went home , and the tailor went in hiding the same as he did the evening before . 
The tailor was going on manoeuvring until he threw down the great stone , and it fell upon the skull of the giant that was under him , and it killed him . 
There was only the one giant left in it then , and he never came again until the court was finished . 
Then the tailor said that he would kill the other giant for him , and welcome that there was no delay at all about that . 
The tailor went then till he came to the place where the other giant was , and asked did he want a servant boy . 
The giant said he did want one , if he could get one who would do everything that he would do himself . 
Anything that you will do , I will do it , said the tailor . 
The tailor said , It will come with me to do that , but that you must give me an hour before we begin on it . 
He came in then and said to the giant to drink a gallon of the broth himself first . 
The giant drank that up out of its boiling . 
I'll do that , said the tailor . 
He was going on until he had it all poured into the skin , and the giant thought he had it drunk . 
The giant drank another gallon then , and the tailor let another gallon down into the skin , but the giant thought he was drinking it . 
I'll do a thing now that it won't come with you to do , said the tailor . 
You will not , said the giant . 
What is it you would do ? Make a hole and let out the broth again , said the tailor . 
Do it yourself first , said the giant . 
The tailor gave a prod of the knife , and he let the broth out of the skin . 
Do that you , said he . 
I will , said the giant , giving such a prod of the knife into his own stomach that he killed himself . 
That is the way the tailor killed the third giant . 
They were afraid then that he would throw down the court , and they sent the wife to him . 
When the tailor was a day gone , himself and his wife , they repented and followed him to take his wife off him again . 
I saw them going by , and if ye loose me now , I am swifter than ye , and I will follow them till I overtake them . 
When they heard that , they loosed out the lion . 
They loosed out the fox then . 
When the tailor saw them coming , he got out of the coach with his wife , and he sat down on the ground . 
I'll go no nearer to him . 
No ! said the fox , but that's the way he was when he was making the thing for me , and I'll go no nearer to him . 
No ! says the lion , but that's the very way he had , when he was making the plough that I was caught in . 
I'll go no nearer to him . 
They all went from him then and returned . 
The tailor and his wife came home to Galway . 
THE CASTLE OF FORTUNE Adapted from the German of Der Faule und der Fleissige by Robert Reinick . 
One lovely summer morning , just as the sun rose , two travelers started on a journey . 
They were both strong young men , but one was a lazy fellow and the other was a worker . 
As the first sunbeams came over the hills , they shone on a great castle standing on the heights , as far away as the eye could see . 
It was a wonderful and beautiful castle , all glistening towers that gleamed like marble , and glancing windows that shone like crystal . 
The two young men looked at it eagerly , and longed to go nearer . 
Suddenly , out of the distance , something like a great butterfly , of white and gold , swept toward them . 
She stood , light as air , on a great , shining , golden ball , which rolled along with her , swifter than the wind . 
As she passed the travelers , she turned her face to them and smiled . 
Follow me ! she said . 
The lazy man sat down in the grass with a discontented sigh . 
She has an easy time of it ! he said . 
But the industrious man ran after the lovely lady and caught the hem of her floating robe in his grasp . 
Who are you , and whither are you going ? he asked . 
I am the Fairy of Fortune , the beautiful lady said , and that is my castle . 
You may reach it to day , if you will there is time , if you waste none . 
If you reach it before the last stroke of midnight , I will receive you there , and will be your friend . 
But if you come one second after midnight , it will be too late . 
When she had said this , her robe slipped from the traveler's hand and she was gone . 
The industrious man hurried back to his friend , and told him what the fairy had said . 
And he set out , down the road toward the shining castle , with a good steady stride , his eyes straight ahead . 
The lazy man lay down in the soft grass , and looked rather wistfully at the faraway towers . 
If I only had a good horse ! he sighed . 
Just at that moment he felt something warm nosing about at his shoulder , and heard a little whinny . 
He turned round , and there stood a little horse ! It was a dainty creature , gentle looking , and finely built , and it was saddled and bridled . 
Hola ! said the lazy man . 
Luck often comes when one isn't looking for it ! And in an instant he had leaped on the horse , and headed him for the castle of fortune . 
The little horse started at a fine pace , and in a very few minutes they overtook the other traveler , plodding along on foot . 
How do you like shank's mare ? laughed the lazy man , as he passed his friend . 
The industrious man only nodded , and kept on with his steady stride , eyes straight ahead . 
The horse kept his good pace , and by noon the towers of the castle stood out against the sky , much nearer and more beautiful . 
Exactly at noon , the horse turned aside from the road , into a shady grove on a hill , and stopped . 
Wise beast , said his rider haste makes waste , and all things are better in moderation . 
I'll follow your example , and eat and rest a bit . 
He dismounted and sat down in the cool moss , with his back against a tree . 
He had a lunch in his traveler's pouch , and he ate it comfortably . 
Then he felt drowsy from the heat and the early ride , so he pulled his hat over his eyes , and settled himself for a nap . 
It will go all the better for a little rest , he said . 
That WAS a sleep ! He slept like the seven sleepers , and he dreamed the most beautiful things you could imagine . 
At last , he dreamed that he had entered the castle of fortune and was being received with great festivities . 
Everything he wanted was brought to him , and music played while fireworks were set off in his honor . 
The music was so loud that he awoke . 
No horse was to be found . 
The only living thing near was an old , bony , gray donkey . 
The man called , and whistled , and looked , but no little horse appeared . 
After a long while he gave it up , and , since there was nothing better to do , he mounted the old gray donkey and set out again . 
The donkey was slow , and he was hard to ride , but he was better than nothing and gradually the lazy man saw the towers of the castle draw nearer . 
Now it began to grow dark in the castle windows the lights began to show . 
Not a step would he budge for all the coaxing and scolding and beating his rider could give . 
At last the rider kicked him , as well as beat him , and at that the donkey felt that he had had enough . 
Up went his hind heels , and down went his head , and over it went the lazy man on to the stony ground . 
There he lay groaning for many minutes , for it was not a soft place , I can assure you . 
To get to those beds he was even willing to bestir his bruised limbs , so he sat up and felt about him for the donkey . 
No donkey was to be found . 
But no donkey was there . 
He would have lain down to sleep again , but he could hear now the howls of hungry wolves in the woods that did not sound pleasant . 
Finally , his hand struck against something that felt like a saddle . 
He grasped it , thankfully , and started to mount his donkey . 
The beast he took hold of seemed very small , and , as he mounted , he felt that its sides were moist and slimy . 
It gave him a shudder , and he hesitated but at that moment he heard a distant clock strike . 
It was striking eleven ! There was still time to reach the castle of fortune , but no more than enough so he mounted his new steed and rode on once more . 
The animal was easier to sit on than the donkey , and the saddle seemed remarkably high behind it was good to lean against . 
But even the donkey was not so slow as this the new steed was slower than he . 
It was the first of the long , slow strokes that mark mid night ! The man grew frantic when he heard it . 
He drove his heels into the snail's sides , to make him hurry . 
Instantly , the snail drew in his head , curled up in his shell , and left the lazy man sitting in a heap on the ground ! The clock struck twice . 
If the man had run for it , he could still have reached the castle , but , instead , he sat still and shouted for a horse . 
A beast , a beast ! he wailed , any kind of a beast that will take me to the castle ! The clock struck three times . 
And as it struck the third note , something came rustling and rattling out of the darkness , something that sounded like a horse with harness . 
The lazy man jumped on its back , a very queer , low back . 
As he mounted , he saw the doors of the castle open , and saw his friend standing on the threshold , waving his cap and beckoning to him . 
And the clock struck nine . 
The man tried to slide off , then , but from all sides of his strange animal great arms came reaching up and held him fast . 
Eleven ! Still the crab went backward . 
The clock struck twelve ! Then the great doors shut with a clang , and the castle of fortune was closed forever to the lazy man . 
What became of him and his crab no one knows to this day , and no one cares . 
But the industrious man was received by the Fairy of Fortune , and made happy in the castle as long as he wanted to stay . 
And ever afterward she was his friend , helping him not only to happiness for himself , but also showing him how to help others , wherever he went . 
DAVID AND GOLIATH From the text of the King James version of the Old Testament , with introduction and slight interpolations , changes of order , and omissions . 
A long time ago , there was a boy named David , who lived in a country far east of this . 
He was good to look upon , for he had fair hair and a ruddy skin and he was very strong and brave and modest . 
He was shepherd boy for his father , and all day often all night he was out in the fields , far from home , watching over the sheep . 
He had to guard them from wild animals , and lead them to the right pastures , and care for them . 
All the strong men of Israel went up to the battle , to fight for their king . 
David's three older brothers went , but he was only a boy , so he was left behind to care for the sheep . 
David came to the place where the Israelites were , just as the host was going forth to the fight , shouting for the battle . 
So he left his gifts in the hands of the keeper of the baggage , and ran into the army , amongst the soldiers , to find his brothers . 
When he found them , he saluted them and began to talk with them . 
Who is that ? asked David . 
It is Goliath , of Gath , champion of the Philistines , said the soldiers about . 
David heard them talking among themselves , whispering and murmuring . 
It was surely so , they said . 
But , said David , who is this Philistine , that he should defy the armies of the living God ? And he was stirred with anger . 
Immediately Saul sent for him . 
When David came before Saul , he said to the king , Let no man's heart fail because of him thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine . 
The Lord , who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear , he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine . 
But when David girded his sword upon his armor , and tried to walk , he said to Saul , I cannot go with these , for I am not used to them . 
And he put them off . 
And the Philistine came on and drew near to David and the man that bore his shield went before him . 
And when the Philistine looked about and saw David , he disdained him , for David was but a boy , and ruddy , and of a fair countenance . 
And then , when the Philistine arose , and came , and drew nigh to meet David , David hasted , and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine . 
And David ran , and stood upon the Philistine , and took his sword , and drew it out of its sheath , and slew him with it . 
Then , when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead , they fled . 
But the army of Israel pursued them , and victory was with the men of Israel . 
THE SHEPHERD'S SONG David had many fierce battles to fight for King Saul against the enemies of Israel , and he won them all . 
But when King Saul died , the people chose David for their king , because there was no one so brave , so wise , or so faithful to God . 
After a battle , or when it was a holiday , or when he was very thankful for something , King David used to make songs , and sing them before the people . 
Some of these songs were so beautiful that they have never been forgotten . 
After all these hundreds and hundreds of years , we sing them still we call them Psalms . 
Often , after David had made a song , his chief musician would sing with him , as the people gathered to worship God . 
Even now , we sometimes do that with the songs of David in our churches . 
One of the Psalms that everybody loves is a song that David made when he remembered the days before he came to Saul's camp . 
It is a beautiful song I wish we knew the music that David made for it , but we only know his words . 
I will tell it to you now , and then you may learn it , to say for yourselves . 
The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want . 
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures he leadeth me beside the still waters . 
He restoreth my soul he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake . 
Yea , though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , I will fear no evil for thou art with me thy rod and thy staff they comfort me . 
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies thou anointest my head with oil my cup runneth over . 
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever . 
THE HIDDEN SERVANTS Adapted , with quotations , from the poem in The Hidden Servants , by Francesca Alexander . 
This is a legend about a hermit who lived long ago . 
For forty years he lived so , preaching to the people , praying for them , comforting them in trouble , and , most of all , worshiping in his heart . 
There was just one thing he cared about it was to make his soul so pure and perfect that it could be one of the stones in God's great Temple of Heaven . 
One day , after the forty years , he had a great longing to know how far along he had got with his work , how it looked to the Heavenly Father . 
As he looked up from his prayer , a white robed angel stood in the path before him . 
The hermit bowed before the messenger with great gladness , for he knew that his wish was answered . 
making the people laugh for money . 
He is the man you seek , his soul has grown to the selfsame stature as your own his treasure on the celestial shore is neither less than yours nor more . 
When the angel had faded from sight , the hermit bowed his head again , but this time with great sorrow and fear . 
Had his forty years of prayer been a terrible mistake , and was his soul indeed like a clown , fooling in the market place ? He knew not what to think . 
Almost he hoped he should not find the man , and could believe that he had dreamed the angel vision . 
The hermit stood and looked at him with terror and sadness , for he felt that he was looking at his own soul . 
The face he saw was thin and tired , and though it kept a smile or a grin for the people , it seemed very sad to the hermit . 
Soon the man felt the hermit's eyes he could not go on with his tricks . 
So , after a little , he asked the clown , very gently , what his life was , what it had been . 
But have you never been anything different ? asked the hermit , painfully . 
The clown's head sank in his hands . 
Yes , holy father , he said , I have been something else . 
I was a thief ! I once belonged to the wickedest band of mountain robbers that ever tormented the land , and I was as wicked as the worst . 
Alas ! The hermit felt that his heart was breaking . 
Yes , one , the clown said , but it was so small , it is not worth telling my life has been worthless . 
Tell me that one ! pleaded the hermit . 
Once , said the man , our band broke into a convent garden and stole away one of the nuns , to sell as a slave or to keep for a ransom . 
We dragged her with us over the rough , long way to our mountain camp , and set a guard over her for the night . 
Father , when her eyes met mine something pierced my heart ! Pity and shame leaped up , for the first time , within me . 
But I made my face as hard and cruel as the rest , and she turned away , hopeless . 
When all was dark and still , I stole like a cat to where she lay bound . 
I put my hand on her wrist and whispered , Trust me , and I will take you safely home . 
I cut her bonds with my knife , and she looked at me to show that she trusted . 
Father , by terrible ways that I knew , hidden from the others , I took her safe to the convent gate . 
She knocked they opened and she slipped inside . 
And , as she left me , she turned and said , God will remember . 
I could not go back to the old bad life , and I had never learned an honest way to earn my bread . 
So I became a clown , and must be a clown until I die . 
No ! no ! my son , cried the hermit , and now his tears were tears of joy . 
God has remembered your soul is in his sight even as mine , who have prayed and preached for forty years . 
Your treasure waits for you on the heavenly shore just as mine does . 
As YOURS ? Father , you mock me ! said the clown . 
But when the hermit told him the story of his prayer and the angel's answer , the poor clown was transfigured with joy , for he knew that his sins were forgiven . 
And when the hermit went home to his mountain , the clown went with him . 
He , too , became a hermit , and spent his time in praise and prayer . 
Together they lived , and worked , and helped the poor . 
And when , after two years , the man who had been a clown died , the hermit felt that he had lost a brother holier than himself . 
For ten years more the hermit lived in his mountain hut , thinking always of God , fasting and praying , and doing no least thing that was wrong . 
Once more his prayer was answered . 
In them he should find two souls like his own , in God's sight . 
When the hermit came to the door of the little farm , the two women who lived there were overjoyed to see him , for every one loved and honored his name . 
They put a chair for him on the cool porch , and brought food and drink . 
But the hermit was too eager to wait . 
He longed greatly to know what the souls of the two women were like , and from their looks he could see only that they were gentle and honest . 
One was old , and the other of middle age . 
Presently he asked them about their lives . 
To be sure , twice every year , when they killed a sheep for food , they gave half to their poorer neighbors . 
That is very good , very faithful , the hermit said . 
What ? said the hermit . 
The hermit bent his head before the two women , and gave thanks in his heart . 
If my soul is as these , he said , I am blessed indeed . 
And suddenly a great light came into the hermit's mind , and he saw how many ways there are of serving God . 
Endless , endless ways there are , that only the Heavenly Father sees . 
