Not to mention rumours which agitated the maritime population and excited the public mind , even in the interior of continents , seafaring men were particularly excited . 
If it was a whale , it surpassed in size all those hitherto classified in science . 
As to classing it in the list of fables , the idea was out of the question . 
Similar facts were observed on the rd of July in the same year , in the Pacific Ocean , by the Columbus , of the West India and Pacific Steam Navigation Company . 
In every place of great resort the monster was the fashion . 
They sang of it in the cafes , ridiculed it in the papers , and represented it on the stage . 
All kinds of stories were circulated regarding it . 
The legends of ancient times were even revived . 
Then burst forth the unending argument between the believers and the unbelievers in the societies of the wise and the scientific journals . 
The question of the monster inflamed all minds . 
During the first months of the year the question seemed buried , never to revive , when new facts were brought before the public . 
It was then no longer a scientific problem to be solved , but a real danger seriously to be avoided . 
The question took quite another shape . 
The monster became a small island , a rock , a reef , but a reef of indefinite and shifting proportions . 
On the th of March , , the Moravian , of the Montreal Ocean Company , finding herself during the night in lat . 
, struck on her starboard quarter a rock , marked in no chart for that part of the sea . 
Under the combined efforts of the wind and its four hundred horse power , it was going at the rate of thirteen knots . 
The accident happened about five o'clock in the morning , as the day was breaking . 
The officers of the quarter deck hurried to the after part of the vessel . 
They examined the sea with the most careful attention . 
They saw nothing but a strong eddy about three cables' length distant , as if the surface had been violently agitated . 
The bearings of the place were taken exactly , and the Moravian continued its route without apparent damage . 
This fact , so grave in itself , might perhaps have been forgotten like many others if , three weeks after , it had not been re enacted under similar circumstances . 
But , thanks to the nationality of the victim of the shock , thanks to the reputation of the company to which the vessel belonged , the circumstance became extensively circulated . 
The th of April , , the sea being beautiful , the breeze favourable , the Scotia , of the Cunard Company's line , found herself in long . 
She was going at the speed of thirteen knots and a half . 
The Scotia had not struck , but she had been struck , and seemingly by something rather sharp and penetrating than blunt . 
The danger could not be imminent . 
The Scotia , divided into seven compartments by strong partitions , could brave with impunity any leak . 
Captain Anderson went down immediately into the hold . 
He found that the sea was pouring into the fifth compartment and the rapidity of the influx proved that the force of the water was considerable . 
Fortunately this compartment did not hold the boilers , or the fires would have been immediately extinguished . 
Captain Anderson ordered the engines to be stopped at once , and one of the men went down to ascertain the extent of the injury . 
Some minutes afterwards they discovered the existence of a large hole , two yards in diameter , in the ship's bottom . 
Such a leak could not be stopped and the Scotia , her paddles half submerged , was obliged to continue her course . 
She was then three hundred miles from Cape Clear , and , after three days' delay , which caused great uneasiness in Liverpool , she entered the basin of the company . 
The engineers visited the Scotia , which was put in dry dock . 
They could scarcely believe it possible at two yards and a half below water mark was a regular rent , in the form of an isosceles triangle . 
The broken place in the iron plates was so perfectly defined that it could not have been more neatly done by a punch . 
Such was the last fact , which resulted in exciting once more the torrent of public opinion . 
From this moment all unlucky casualties which could not be otherwise accounted for were put down to the monster . 
The public demanded sharply that the seas should at any price be relieved from this formidable cetacean . 
Member of the whale family . 
CHAPTER II PRO AND CON At the period when these events took place , I had just returned from a scientific research in the disagreeable territory of Nebraska , in the United States . 
In virtue of my office as Assistant Professor in the Museum of Natural History in Paris , the French Government had attached me to that expedition . 
After six months in Nebraska , I arrived in New York towards the end of March , laden with a precious collection . 
My departure for France was fixed for the first days in May . 
Meanwhile I was occupying myself in classifying my mineralogical , botanical , and zoological riches , when the accident happened to the Scotia . 
I was perfectly up in the subject which was the question of the day . 
How could I be otherwise ? I had read and reread all the American and European papers without being any nearer a conclusion . 
Under the impossibility of forming an opinion , I jumped from one extreme to the other . 
That there really was something could not be doubted , and the incredulous were invited to put their finger on the wound of the Scotia . 
On my arrival at New York the question was at its height . 
The theory of the floating island , and the unapproachable sandbank , supported by minds little competent to form a judgment , was abandoned . 
But this last theory , plausible as it was , could not stand against inquiries made in both worlds . 
That a private gentleman should have such a machine at his command was not likely . 
Where , when , and how was it built ? and how could its construction have been kept secret ? Certainly a Government might possess such a destructive machine . 
But the idea of a war machine fell before the declaration of Governments . 
As public interest was in question , and transatlantic communications suffered , their veracity could not be doubted . 
Upon my arrival in New York several persons did me the honour of consulting me on the phenomenon in question . 
I had published in France a work in quarto , in two volumes , entitled Mysteries of the Great Submarine Grounds . 
This book , highly approved of in the learned world , gained for me a special reputation in this rather obscure branch of Natural History . 
As long as I could deny the reality of the fact , I confined myself to a decided negative . 
But soon , finding myself driven into a corner , I was obliged to explain myself point by point . 
It ran as follows After examining one by one the different theories , rejecting all other suggestions , it becomes necessary to admit the existence of a marine animal of enormous power . 
The great depths of the ocean are entirely unknown to us . 
However , the solution of the problem submitted to me may modify the form of the dilemma . 
Either we do know all the varieties of beings which people our planet , or we do not . 
The common narwhal , or unicorn of the sea , often attains a length of sixty feet . 
Increase its size fivefold or tenfold , give it strength proportionate to its size , lengthen its destructive weapons , and you obtain the animal required . 
Indeed , the narwhal is armed with a sort of ivory sword , a halberd , according to the expression of certain naturalists . 
The principal tusk has the hardness of steel . 
Some of these tusks have been found buried in the bodies of whales , which the unicorn always attacks with success . 
Others have been drawn out , not without trouble , from the bottoms of ships , which they had pierced through and through , as a gimlet pierces a barrel . 
The Museum of the Faculty of Medicine of Paris possesses one of these defensive weapons , two yards and a quarter in length , and fifteen inches in diameter at the base . 
I reserved for myself a way of escape . 
In effect , however , I admitted the existence of the monster . 
My article was warmly discussed , which procured it a high reputation . 
It rallied round it a certain number of partisans . 
The solution it proposed gave , at least , full liberty to the imagination . 
The human mind delights in grand conceptions of supernatural beings . 
can be produced or developed . 
The industrial and commercial papers treated the question chiefly from this point of view . 
Public opinion had been pronounced . 
The United States were the first in the field and in New York they made preparations for an expedition destined to pursue this narwhal . 
A frigate of great speed , the Abraham Lincoln , was put in commission as soon as possible . 
For two months no one heard it spoken of . 
No ship met with it . 
It seemed as if this unicorn knew of the plots weaving around it . 
So when the frigate had been armed for a long campaign , and provided with formidable fishing apparatus , no one could tell what course to pursue . 
The excitement caused by this news was extreme . 
The ship was revictualled and well stocked with coal . 
SIR , If you will consent to join the Abraham Lincoln in this expedition , the Government of the United States will with pleasure see France represented in the enterprise . 
Commander Farragut has a cabin at your disposal . 
Very cordially yours , J. B. HOBSON , Secretary of Marine . 
CHAPTER III I FORM MY RESOLUTION Three seconds before the arrival of J. B. Hobson's letter I no more thought of pursuing the unicorn than of attempting the passage of the North Sea . 
But I had just returned from a fatiguing journey , weary and longing for repose . 
Besides , thought I , all roads lead back to Europe and the unicorn may be amiable enough to hurry me towards the coast of France . 
, and I will not bring back less than half a yard of his ivory halberd to the Museum of Natural History . 
But in the meanwhile I must seek this narwhal in the North Pacific Ocean , which , to return to France , was taking the road to the antipodes . 
Conseil , I called in an impatient voice . 
Conseil was my servant , a true , devoted Flemish boy , who had accompanied me in all my travels . 
I liked him , and he returned the liking well . 
Conseil had followed me for the last ten years wherever science led . 
Besides all this , he had good health , which defied all sickness , and solid muscles , but no nerves good morals are understood . 
This boy was thirty years old , and his age to that of his master as fifteen to twenty . 
Conseil , said I again , beginning with feverish hands to make preparations for my departure . 
Certainly I was sure of this devoted boy . 
Here there was matter for reflection even to the most impassive man in the world . 
What would Conseil say ? Conseil , I called a third time . 
Did you call , sir ? said he , entering . 
Yes , my boy make preparations for me and yourself too . 
We leave in two hours . 
As you please , sir , replied Conseil , quietly . 
Not an instant to lose lock in my trunk all travelling utensils , coats , shirts , and stockings without counting , as many as you can , and make haste . 
And your collections , sir ? observed Conseil . 
They will keep them at the hotel . 
We are not returning to Paris , then ? said Conseil . 
Oh ! certainly , I answered , evasively , by making a curve . 
Will the curve please you , sir ? Oh ! it will be nothing not quite so direct a road , that is all . 
We take our passage in the Abraham , Lincoln . 
As you think proper , sir , coolly replied Conseil . 
You see , my friend , it has to do with the monster the famous narwhal . 
We are going to purge it from the seas . 
A glorious mission , but a dangerous one ! We cannot tell where we may go these animals can be very capricious . 
But we will go whether or no we have got a captain who is pretty wide awake . 
Our luggage was transported to the deck of the frigate immediately . 
I hastened on board and asked for Commander Farragut . 
One of the sailors conducted me to the poop , where I found myself in the presence of a good looking officer , who held out his hand to me . 
Monsieur Pierre Aronnax ? said he . 
Himself , replied I. Commander Farragut ? You are welcome , Professor your cabin is ready for you . 
I bowed , and desired to be conducted to the cabin destined for me . 
The Abraham Lincoln had been well chosen and equipped for her new destination . 
She was a frigate of great speed , fitted with high pressure engines which admitted a pressure of seven atmospheres . 
Under this the Abraham Lincoln attained the mean speed of nearly eighteen knots and a third an hour a considerable speed , but , nevertheless , insufficient to grapple with this gigantic cetacean . 
The interior arrangements of the frigate corresponded to its nautical qualities . 
I was well satisfied with my cabin , which was in the after part , opening upon the gunroom . 
We shall be well off here , said I to Conseil . 
As well , by your honour's leave , as a hermit crab in the shell of a whelk , said Conseil . 
I left Conseil to stow our trunks conveniently away , and remounted the poop in order to survey the preparations for departure . 
At that moment Commander Farragut was ordering the last moorings to be cast loose which held the Abraham Lincoln to the pier of Brooklyn . 
So in a quarter of an hour , perhaps less , the frigate would have sailed without me . 
I should have missed this extraordinary , supernatural , and incredible expedition , the recital of which may well meet with some suspicion . 
But Commander Farragut would not lose a day nor an hour in scouring the seas in which the animal had been sighted . 
He sent for the engineer . 
Is the steam full on ? asked he . 
Yes , sir , replied the engineer . 
Go ahead , cried Commander Farragut . 
CHAPTER IV NED LAND Captain Farragut was a good seaman , worthy of the frigate he commanded . 
His vessel and he were one . 
He was the soul of it . 
On the question of the monster there was no doubt in his mind , and he would not allow the existence of the animal to be disputed on board . 
He believed in it , as certain good women believe in the leviathan by faith , not by reason . 
The monster did exist , and he had sworn to rid the seas of it . 
Either Captain Farragut would kill the narwhal , or the narwhal would kill the captain . 
There was no third course . 
The officers on board shared the opinion of their chief . 
They were ever chatting , discussing , and calculating the various chances of a meeting , watching narrowly the vast surface of the ocean . 
More than one took up his quarters voluntarily in the cross trees , who would have cursed such a berth under any other circumstances . 
As to the ship's company , they desired nothing better than to meet the unicorn , to harpoon it , hoist it on board , and despatch it . 
They watched the sea with eager attention . 
I leave you to judge how eyes were used on board the Abraham Lincoln . 
For my own part I was not behind the others , and , left to no one my share of daily observations . 
The frigate might have been called the Argus , for a hundred reasons . 
I have said that Captain Farragut had carefully provided his ship with every apparatus for catching the gigantic cetacean . 
No whaler had ever been better armed . 
We possessed every known engine , from the harpoon thrown by the hand to the barbed arrows of the blunderbuss , and the explosive balls of the duck gun . 
This precious weapon of American origin could throw with ease a conical projectile of nine pounds to a mean distance of ten miles . 
Thus the Abraham Lincoln wanted for no means of destruction and , what was better still she had on board Ned Land , the prince of harpooners . 
Ned Land was a Canadian , with an uncommon quickness of hand , and who knew no equal in his dangerous occupation . 
Skill , coolness , audacity , and cunning he possessed in a superior degree , and it must be a cunning whale to escape the stroke of his harpoon . 
, strongly built , grave and taciturn , occasionally violent , and very passionate when contradicted . 
His person attracted attention , but above all the boldness of his look , which gave a singular expression to his face . 
Who calls himself Canadian calls himself French and , little communicative as Ned Land was , I must admit that he took a certain liking for me . 
My nationality drew him to me , no doubt . 
It was an opportunity for him to talk , and for me to hear , that old language of Rabelais , which is still in use in some Canadian provinces . 
The harpooner's family was originally from Quebec , and was already a tribe of hardy fishermen when this town belonged to France . 
Little by little , Ned Land acquired a taste for chatting , and I loved to hear the recital of his adventures in the polar seas . 
I am portraying this hardy companion as I really knew him . 
We are old friends now , united in that unchangeable friendship which is born and cemented amidst extreme dangers . 
Ah , brave Ned ! I ask no more than to live a hundred years longer , that I may have more time to dwell the longer on your memory . 
He even avoided the subject , which I one day thought it my duty to press upon him . 
, the frigate was abreast of Cape Blanc , thirty miles to leeward of the coast of Patagonia . 
We had crossed the tropic of Capricorn , and the Straits of Magellan opened less than seven hundred miles to the south . 
Before eight days were over the Abraham Lincoln would be ploughing the waters of the Pacific . 
I naturally led up the conversation to the giant unicorn , and examined the various chances of success or failure of the expedition . 
But , seeing that Ned Land let me speak without saying too much himself , I pressed him more closely . 
, as if to collect himself , and said at last , Perhaps I have , Mr. Aronnax . 
But , Ned , they tell of ships which the teeth of the narwhal have pierced through and through . 
Well , Ned , I repeat it with a conviction resting on the logic of facts . 
Hum ! said the harpooner , shaking his head with the air of a man who would not be convinced . 
Notice one thing , my worthy Canadian , I resumed . 
And why this powerful organisation ? demanded Ned . 
Because it requires incalculable strength to keep one's self in these strata and resist their pressure . 
Let us admit that the pressure of the atmosphere is represented by the weight of a column of water thirty two feet high . 
In reality the column of water would be shorter , as we are speaking of sea water , the density of which is greater than that of fresh water . 
for each square inch of its surface . 
Ah ! my brave Ned , do you know how many square inches you carry on the surface of your body ? I have no idea , Mr. Aronnax . 
About , and as in reality the atmospheric pressure is about lb . 
to the square inch , your , square inches bear at this moment a pressure of , lb . 
Without my perceiving it ? Without your perceiving it . 
And if you are not crushed by such a pressure , it is because the air penetrates the interior of your body with equal pressure . 
Hence perfect equilibrium between the interior and exterior pressure , which thus neutralise each other , and which allows you to bear it without inconvenience . 
But in the water it is another thing . 
Yes , I understand , replied Ned , becoming more attentive because the water surrounds me , but does not penetrate . 
Precisely , Ned so that at feet beneath the surface of the sea you would undergo a pressure of , lb . 
at feet , ten times that pressure at , feet , a hundred times that pressure lastly , at , feet , a thousand times that pressure would be , , lb . 
that is to say , that you would be flattened as if you had been drawn from the plates of a hydraulic machine ! The devil ! exclaimed Ned . 
As you say , Ned . 
And think what destruction such a mass would cause , if hurled with the speed of an express train against the hull of a vessel . 
Yes certainly perhaps , replied the Canadian , shaken by these figures , but not yet willing to give in . 
But one circumstance happened which showed the wonderful dexterity of Ned Land , and proved what confidence we might place in him . 
The th of June , the frigate spoke some American whalers , from whom we learned that they knew nothing about the narwhal . 
Commander Farragut , desirous of seeing Ned Land at work , gave him permission to go on board the Monroe . 
Decidedly , if the monster ever had to do with Ned Land's harpoon , I would not bet in its favour . 
The frigate skirted the south east coast of America with great rapidity . 
The rd of July we were at the opening of the Straits of Magellan , level with Cape Vierges . 
But Commander Farragut would not take a tortuous passage , but doubled Cape Horn . 
The ship's crew agreed with him . 
And certainly it was possible that they might meet the narwhal in this narrow pass . 
The course was taken towards the north west , and the next day the screw of the frigate was at last beating the waters of the Pacific . 
Keep your eyes open ! called out the sailors . 
And they were opened widely . 
Both eyes and glasses , a little dazzled , it is true , by the prospect of two thousand dollars , had not an instant's repose . 
I myself , for whom money had no charms , was not the least attentive on board . 
Giving but few minutes to my meals , but a few hours to sleep , indifferent to either rain or sunshine , I did not leave the poop of the vessel . 
The cabins poured forth a torrent of sailors and officers , each with heaving breast and troubled eye watching the course of the cetacean . 
But the weather was good . 
The voyage was being accomplished under the most favourable auspices . 
It was then the bad season in Australia , the July of that zone corresponding to our January in Europe , but the sea was beautiful and easily scanned round a vast circumference . 
The th of July , the tropic of Capricorn was cut by d of longitude , and the th of the same month we crossed the Equator on the th meridian . 
This passed , the frigate took a more decided westerly direction , and scoured the central waters of the Pacific . 
The frigate passed at some distance from the Marquesas and the Sandwich Islands , crossed the tropic of Cancer , and made for the China Seas . 
We were on the theatre of the last diversions of the monster and , to say truth , we no longer LIVED on board . 
And truly , reaction soon showed itself . 
The warmest partisans of the enterprise now became its most ardent detractors . 
This useless search could not last much longer . 
The Abraham Lincoln had nothing to reproach herself with , she had done her best to succeed . 
Never had an American ship's crew shown more zeal or patience its failure could not be placed to their charge there remained nothing but to return . 
This was represented to the commander . 
The sailors could not hide their discontent , and the service suffered . 
asked for three days' patience . 
If in three days the monster did not appear , the man at the helm should give three turns of the wheel , and the Abraham Lincoln would make for the European seas . 
This promise was made on the nd of November . 
It had the effect of rallying the ship's crew . 
The ocean was watched with renewed attention . 
Each one wished for a last glance in which to sum up his remembrance . 
Glasses were used with feverish activity . 
It was a grand defiance given to the giant narwhal , and he could scarcely fail to answer the summons and appear . 
Large quantities of bacon were trailed in the wake of the ship , to the great satisfaction of the sharks . 
Small craft radiated in all directions round the Abraham Lincoln as she lay to , and did not leave a spot of the sea unexplored . 
But the night of the th of November arrived without the unveiling of this submarine mystery . 
expire after that time , Commander Farragut , faithful to his promise , was to turn the course to the south east and abandon for ever the northern regions of the Pacific . 
The frigate was then in N. lat . 
The coast of Japan still remained less than two hundred miles to leeward . 
They had just struck eight bells large clouds veiled the face of the moon , then in its first quarter . 
The sea undulated peaceably under the stern of the vessel . 
At that moment I was leaning forward on the starboard netting . 
Conseil , standing near me , was looking straight before him . 
The crew , perched in the ratlines , examined the horizon which contracted and darkened by degrees . 
In looking at Conseil , I could see he was undergoing a little of the general influence . 
At least I thought so . 
Perhaps for the first time his nerves vibrated to a sentiment of curiosity . 
Come , Conseil , said I , this is the last chance of pocketing the two thousand dollars . 
You are right , Conseil . 
It is a foolish affair after all , and one upon which we entered too lightly . 
What time lost , what useless emotions ! We should have been back in France six months ago . 
In your little room , sir , replied Conseil , and in your museum , sir and I should have already classed all your fossils , sir . 
And the Babiroussa would have been installed in its cage in the Jardin des Plantes , and have drawn all the curious people of the capital ! As you say , Conseil . 
I fancy we shall run a fair chance of being laughed at for our pains . 
That's tolerably certain , replied Conseil , quietly I think they will make fun of you , sir . 
And , must I say it ? Go on , my good friend . 
Well , sir , you will only get your deserts . 
Indeed ! When one has the honour of being a savant as you are , sir , one should not expose one's self to Conseil had not time to finish his compliment . 
In the midst of general silence a voice had just been heard . 
The order to stop her had been given , and the frigate now simply went on by her own momentum . 
The darkness was then profound , and , however good the Canadian's eyes were , I asked myself how he had managed to see , and what he had been able to see . 
My heart beat as if it would break . 
But Ned Land was not mistaken , and we all perceived the object he pointed to . 
At two cables' length from the Abraham Lincoln , on the starboard quarter , the sea seemed to be illuminated all over . 
It was not a mere phosphoric phenomenon . 
The monster emerged some fathoms from the water , and then threw out that very intense but mysterious light mentioned in the report of several captains . 
This magnificent irradiation must have been produced by an agent of great SHINING power . 
The luminous part traced on the sea an immense oval , much elongated , the centre of which condensed a burning heat , whose overpowering brilliancy died out by successive gradations . 
It is only a massing of phosphoric particles , cried one of the officers . 
No , sir , certainly not , I replied . 
That brightness is of an essentially electrical nature . 
Besides , see , see ! it moves it is moving forwards , backwards it is darting towards us ! A general cry arose from the frigate . 
Silence ! said the captain . 
Up with the helm , reverse the engines . 
The steam was shut off , and the Abraham Lincoln , beating to port , described a semicircle . 
Right the helm , go ahead , cried the captain . 
These orders were executed , and the frigate moved rapidly from the burning light . 
She tried to sheer off , but the supernatural animal approached with a velocity double her own . 
Stupefaction more than fear made us dumb and motionless . 
The animal gained on us , sporting with the waves . 
It made the round of the frigate , which was then making fourteen knots , and enveloped it with its electric rings like luminous dust . 
Then it moved away two or three miles , leaving a phosphorescent track , like those volumes of steam that the express trains leave behind . 
Then it reappeared on the other side of the vessel , as if it had turned and slid under the hull . 
Any moment a collision might have occurred which would have been fatal to us . 
However , I was astonished at the manoeuvres of the frigate . 
She fled and did not attack . 
On the captain's face , generally so impassive , was an expression of unaccountable astonishment . 
Mr. Aronnax , he said , I do not know with what formidable being I have to deal , and I will not imprudently risk my frigate in the midst of this darkness . 
Besides , how attack this unknown thing , how defend one's self from it ? Wait for daylight , and the scene will change . 
You have no further doubt , captain , of the nature of the animal ? No , sir it is evidently a gigantic narwhal , and an electric one . 
Perhaps , added I , one can only approach it with a torpedo . 
Undoubtedly , replied the captain , if it possesses such dreadful power , it is the most terrible animal that ever was created . 
That is why , sir , I must be on my guard . 
The crew were on their feet all night . 
No one thought of sleep . 
The Abraham Lincoln , not being able to struggle with such velocity , had moderated its pace , and sailed at half speed . 
For its part , the narwhal , imitating the frigate , let the waves rock it at will , and seemed decided not to leave the scene of the struggle . 
Towards midnight , however , it disappeared , or , to use a more appropriate term , it died out like a large glow worm . 
Had it fled ? One could only fear , not hope it . 
But at seven minutes to one o'clock in the morning a deafening whistling was heard , like that produced by a body of water rushing with great violence . 
The captain , Ned Land , and I were then on the poop , eagerly peering through the profound darkness . 
Ned Land , asked the commander , you have often heard the roaring of whales ? Often , sir but never such whales the sight of which brought me in two thousand dollars . 
That will be trifling with the lives of my men . 
And mine too , simply said the harpooner . 
Towards two o'clock in the morning , the burning light reappeared , not less intense , about five miles to windward of the Abraham Lincoln . 
Notwithstanding the distance , and the noise of the wind and sea , one heard distinctly the loud strokes of the animal's tail , and even its panting breath . 
The fishing implements were laid along the hammock nettings . 
Ned Land contented himself with sharpening his harpoon a terrible weapon in his hands . 
At six o'clock day began to break and , with the first glimmer of light , the electric light of the narwhal disappeared . 
At seven o'clock the day was sufficiently advanced , but a very thick sea fog obscured our view , and the best spy glasses could not pierce it . 
That caused disappointment and anger . 
I climbed the mizzen mast . 
Some officers were already perched on the mast heads . 
At eight o'clock the fog lay heavily on the waves , and its thick scrolls rose little by little . 
The horizon grew wider and clearer at the same time . 
Suddenly , just as on the day before , Ned Land's voice was heard The thing itself on the port quarter ! cried the harpooner . 
Every eye was turned towards the point indicated . 
There , a mile and a half from the frigate , a long blackish body emerged a yard above the waves . 
Its tail , violently agitated , produced a considerable eddy . 
Never did a tail beat the sea with such violence . 
An immense track , of dazzling whiteness , marked the passage of the animal , and described a long curve . 
The frigate approached the cetacean . 
The reports of the Shannon and of the Helvetia had rather exaggerated its size , and I estimated its length at only two hundred and fifty feet . 
As to its dimensions , I could only conjecture them to be admirably proportioned . 
While I watched this phenomenon , two jets of steam and water were ejected from its vents , and rose to the height of feet thus I ascertained its way of breathing . 
I concluded definitely that it belonged to the vertebrate branch , class mammalia . 
The crew waited impatiently for their chief's orders . 
The latter , after having observed the animal attentively , called the engineer . 
The engineer ran to him . 
Sir , said the commander , you have steam up ? Yes , sir , answered the engineer . 
Well , make up your fires and put on all steam . 
Three hurrahs greeted this order . 
The time for the struggle had arrived . 
Some moments after , the two funnels of the frigate vomited torrents of black smoke , and the bridge quaked under the trembling of the boilers . 
The Abraham Lincoln , propelled by her wonderful screw , went straight at the animal . 
The latter allowed it to come within half a cable's length then , as if disdaining to dive , it took a little turn , and stopped a short distance off . 
This pursuit lasted nearly three quarters of an hour , without the frigate gaining two yards on the cetacean . 
It was quite evident that at that rate we should never come up with it . 
What shall we do then ? Put on more steam if you can , sir . 
With your leave , I mean to post myself under the bowsprit , and , if we get within harpooning distance , I shall throw my harpoon . 
Go , Ned , said the captain . 
Engineer , put on more pressure . 
Ned Land went to his post . 
The fires were increased , the screw revolved forty three times a minute , and the steam poured out of the valves . 
We heaved the log , and calculated that the Abraham Lincoln was going at the rate of miles an hour . 
But the accursed animal swam at the same speed . 
For a whole hour the frigate kept up this pace , without gaining six feet . 
It was humiliating for one of the swiftest sailers in the American navy . 
The engineer was called again . 
You have turned full steam on ? Yes , sir , replied the engineer . 
The speed of the Abraham Lincoln increased . 
Its masts trembled down to their stepping holes , and the clouds of smoke could hardly find way out of the narrow funnels . 
They heaved the log a second time . 
Well ? asked the captain of the man at the wheel . 
Nineteen miles and three tenths , sir . 
The manometer showed ten degrees . 
But the cetacean grew warm itself , no doubt for without straining itself , it made miles . 
What a pursuit ! No , I cannot describe the emotion that vibrated through me . 
Ned Land kept his post , harpoon in hand . 
Several times the animal let us gain upon it . 
We shall catch it ! we shall catch it ! cried the Canadian . 
A cry of fury broke from everyone ! At noon we were no further advanced than at eight o'clock in the morning . 
The captain then decided to take more direct means . 
Ah ! said he , that animal goes quicker than the Abraham Lincoln . 
Very well ! we will see whether it will escape these conical bullets . 
Send your men to the forecastle , sir . 
The forecastle gun was immediately loaded and slewed round . 
But the shot passed some feet above the cetacean , which was half a mile off . 
Another , more to the right , cried the commander , and five dollars to whoever will hit that infernal beast . 
An old gunner with a grey beard that I can see now with steady eye and grave face , went up to the gun and took a long aim . 
A loud report was heard , with which were mingled the cheers of the crew . 
The bullet did its work it hit the animal , and , sliding off the rounded surface , was lost in two miles depth of sea . 
The chase began again , and the captain , leaning towards me , said I will pursue that beast till my frigate bursts up . 
Yes , answered I and you will be quite right to do it . 
I wished the beast would exhaust itself , and not be insensible to fatigue like a steam engine . 
But it was of no use . 
Hours passed , without its showing any signs of exhaustion . 
However , it must be said in praise of the Abraham Lincoln that she struggled on indefatigably . 
I cannot reckon the distance she made under three hundred miles during this unlucky day , November the th . 
But night came on , and overshadowed the rough ocean . 
Now I thought our expedition was at an end , and that we should never again see the extraordinary animal . 
At ten minutes to eleven in the evening , the electric light reappeared three miles to windward of the frigate , as pure , as intense as during the preceding night . 
The narwhal seemed motionless perhaps , tired with its day's work , it slept , letting itself float with the undulation of the waves . 
Now was a chance of which the captain resolved to take advantage . 
The Abraham Lincoln kept up half steam , and advanced cautiously so as not to awake its adversary . 
The Canadian went to take his place again under the bowsprit . 
The frigate approached noiselessly , stopped at two cables' lengths from the animal , and following its track . 
No one breathed a deep silence reigned on the bridge . 
We were not a hundred feet from the burning focus , the light of which increased and dazzled our eyes . 
Suddenly his arm straightened , and the harpoon was thrown I heard the sonorous stroke of the weapon , which seemed to have struck a hard body . 
A fearful shock followed , and , thrown over the rail without having time to stop myself , I fell into the sea . 
CHAPTER VII AN UNKNOWN SPECIES OF WHALE This unexpected fall so stunned me that I have no clear recollection of my sensations at the time . 
I was at first drawn down to a depth of about twenty feet . 
, and in that plunge I did not lose my presence of mind . 
Two vigorous strokes brought me to the surface of the water . 
My first care was to look for the frigate . 
Had the crew seen me disappear ? Had the Abraham Lincoln veered round ? Would the captain put out a boat ? Might I hope to be saved ? The darkness was intense . 
I caught a glimpse of a black mass disappearing in the east , its beacon lights dying out in the distance . 
It was the frigate ! I was lost . 
Help , help ! I shouted , swimming towards the Abraham Lincoln in desperation . 
My clothes encumbered me they seemed glued to my body , and paralysed my movements . 
I was sinking ! I was suffocating ! Help ! This was my last cry . 
My mouth filled with water I struggled against being drawn down the abyss . 
I seized with one hand my faithful Conseil's arm . 
Is it you ? said I , you ? Myself , answered Conseil and waiting master's orders . 
That shock threw you as well as me into the sea ? No but , being in my master's service , I followed him . 
The worthy fellow thought that was but natural . 
And the frigate ? I asked . 
The frigate ? replied Conseil , turning on his back I think that master had better not count too much on her . 
Broken ? Yes , broken by the monster's teeth . 
It is the only injury the Abraham Lincoln has sustained . 
But it is a bad look out for us she no longer answers her helm . 
Then we are lost ! Perhaps so , calmly answered Conseil . 
However , we have still several hours before us , and one can do a good deal in some hours . 
Conseil's imperturbable coolness set me up again . 
I swam more vigorously but , cramped by my clothes , which stuck to me like a leaden weight , I felt great difficulty in bearing up . 
Will master let me make a slit ? said he and , slipping an open knife under my clothes , he ripped them up from top to bottom very rapidly . 
Then he cleverly slipped them off me , while I swam for both of us . 
Then I did the same for Conseil , and we continued to swim near to each other . 
Nevertheless , our situation was no less terrible . 
Perhaps our disappearance had not been noticed and , if it had been , the frigate could not tack , being without its helm . 
Conseil argued on this supposition , and laid his plans accordingly . 
This quiet boy was perfectly self possessed . 
This towing business did not last more than ten minutes each and relieving each other thus , we could swim on for some hours , perhaps till day break . 
Poor chance ! but hope is so firmly rooted in the heart of man ! Moreover , there were two of us . 
if I sought to destroy all hope if I wished to despair , I could not . 
The collision of the frigate with the cetacean had occurred about eleven o'clock in the evening before . 
I reckoned then we should have eight hours to swim before sunrise , an operation quite practicable if we relieved each other . 
The sea , very calm , was in our favour . 
Sometimes I tried to pierce the intense darkness that was only dispelled by the phosphorescence caused by our movements . 
I watched the luminous waves that broke over my hand , whose mirror like surface was spotted with silvery rings . 
One might have said that we were in a bath of quicksilver . 
Near one o'clock in the morning , I was seized with dreadful fatigue . 
My limbs stiffened under the strain of violent cramp . 
Conseil was obliged to keep me up , and our preservation devolved on him alone . 
I heard the poor boy pant his breathing became short and hurried . 
I found that he could not keep up much longer . 
Leave me ! leave me ! I said to him . 
Leave my master ? Never ! replied he . 
Just then the moon appeared through the fringes of a thick cloud that the wind was driving to the east . 
The surface of the sea glittered with its rays . 
This kindly light reanimated us . 
My head got better again . 
I looked at all points of the horizon . 
I saw the frigate ! She was five miles from us , and looked like a dark mass , hardly discernible . 
But no boats ! I would have cried out . 
But what good would it have been at such a distance ! My swollen lips could utter no sounds . 
Conseil could articulate some words , and I heard him repeat at intervals , Help ! help ! Our movements were suspended for an instant we listened . 
It might be only a singing in the ear , but it seemed to me as if a cry answered the cry from Conseil . 
Did you hear ? I murmured . 
Yes ! Yes ! And Conseil gave one more despairing cry . 
He raised his head sometimes , looked before us , and uttered a cry of recognition , which was responded to by a voice that came nearer and nearer . 
My strength was exhausted my fingers stiffened my hand afforded me support no longer my mouth , convulsively opening , filled with salt water . 
I raised my head for the last time , then I sank . 
At this moment a hard body struck me . 
I clung to it then I felt that I was being drawn up , that I was brought to the surface of the water , that my chest collapsed I fainted . 
It is certain that I soon came to , thanks to the vigorous rubbings that I received . 
I half opened my eyes . 
Does master call me ? asked Conseil . 
Just then , by the waning light of the moon which was sinking down to the horizon , I saw a face which was not Conseil's and which I immediately recognised . 
The same , sir , who is seeking his prize ! replied the Canadian . 
An island ? Or , more correctly speaking , on our gigantic narwhal . 
Explain yourself , Ned ! Only I soon found out why my harpoon had not entered its skin and was blunted . 
Why , Ned , why ? Because , Professor , that beast is made of sheet iron . 
The Canadian's last words produced a sudden revolution in my brain . 
I wriggled myself quickly to the top of the being , or object , half out of the water , which served us for a refuge . 
It was evidently a hard , impenetrable body , and not the soft substance that forms the bodies of the great marine mammalia . 
Well , no ! the blackish back that supported me was smooth , polished , without scales . 
The blow produced a metallic sound and , incredible though it may be , it seemed , I might say , as if it was made of riveted plates . 
We had no time to lose , however . 
like a huge fish of steel . 
Ned Land's mind was made up on this point . 
Conseil and I could only agree with him . 
Just then a bubbling began at the back of this strange thing , and it began to move . 
We had only just time to seize hold of the upper part , which rose about seven feet out of the water , and happily its speed was not great . 
The Canadian might have said still less . 
It became really necessary to communicate with the beings , whatever they were , shut up inside the machine . 
Besides , the moon disappeared then , and left us in total darkness . 
At last this long night passed . 
My indistinct remembrance prevents my describing all the impressions it made . 
I can only recall one circumstance . 
During some lulls of the wind and sea , I fancied I heard several times vague sounds , a sort of fugitive harmony produced by words of command . 
The morning mists surrounded us , but they soon cleared off . 
I was about to examine the hull , which formed on deck a kind of horizontal platform , when I felt it gradually sinking . 
Oh ! confound it ! cried Ned Land , kicking the resounding plate . 
Open , you inhospitable rascals ! Happily the sinking movement ceased . 
Suddenly a noise , like iron works violently pushed aside , came from the interior of the boat . 
One iron plate was moved , a man appeared , uttered an odd cry , and disappeared immediately . 
Some moments after , eight strong men , with masked faces , appeared noiselessly , and drew us down into their formidable machine . 
CHAPTER VIII MOBILIS IN MOBILI This forcible abduction , so roughly carried out , was accomplished with the rapidity of lightning . 
Whom had we to deal with ? No doubt some new sort of pirates , who explored the sea in their own way . 
Hardly had the narrow panel closed upon me , when I was enveloped in darkness . 
My eyes , dazzled with the outer light , could distinguish nothing . 
I felt my naked feet cling to the rungs of an iron ladder . 
Ned Land and Conseil , firmly seized , followed me . 
At the bottom of the ladder , a door opened , and shut after us immediately with a bang . 
Where , I could not say , hardly imagine . 
All was black , and such a dense black that , after some minutes , my eyes had not been able to discern even the faintest glimmer . 
Meanwhile , Ned Land , furious at these proceedings , gave free vent to his indignation . 
Confound it ! cried he , here are people who come up to the Scotch for hospitality . 
They only just miss being cannibals . 
I should not be surprised at it , but I declare that they shall not eat me without my protesting . 
Calm yourself , friend Ned , calm yourself , replied Conseil , quietly . 
Do not cry out before you are hurt . 
We are not quite done for yet . 
Not quite , sharply replied the Canadian , but pretty near , at all events . 
Happily , my bowie knife I have still , and I can always see well enough to use it . 
The first of these pirates who lays a hand on me Do not excite yourself , Ned , I said to the harpooner , and do not compromise us by useless violence . 
Who knows that they will not listen to us ? Let us rather try to find out where we are . 
In five steps I came to an iron wall , made of plates bolted together . 
Then turning back I struck against a wooden table , near which were ranged several stools . 
The boards of this prison were concealed under a thick mat , which deadened the noise of the feet . 
The bare walls revealed no trace of window or door . 
Conseil , going round the reverse way , met me , and we went back to the middle of the cabin , which measured about twenty feet by ten . 
As to its height , Ned Land , in spite of his own great height , could not measure it . 
Half an hour had already passed without our situation being bettered , when the dense darkness suddenly gave way to extreme light . 
Our prison was suddenly lighted , that is to say , it became filled with a luminous matter , so strong that I could not bear it at first . 
In its whiteness and intensity I recognised that electric light which played round the submarine boat like a magnificent phenomenon of phosphorescence . 
After shutting my eyes involuntarily , I opened them , and saw that this luminous agent came from a half globe , unpolished , placed in the roof of the cabin . 
At last one can see , cried Ned Land , who , knife in hand , stood on the defensive . 
Yes , said I but we are still in the dark about ourselves . 
Let master have patience , said the imperturbable Conseil . 
The sudden lighting of the cabin enabled me to examine it minutely . 
It only contained a table and five stools . 
The invisible door might be hermetically sealed . 
All seemed dead in the interior of this boat . 
Did it move , did it float on the surface of the ocean , or did it dive into its depths ? I could not guess . 
A noise of bolts was now heard , the door opened , and two men appeared . 
The second stranger merits a more detailed description . 
Whether this person was thirty five or fifty years of age , I could not say . 
He was tall , had a large forehead , straight nose , a clearly cut mouth , beautiful teeth , with fine taper hands , indicative of a highly nervous temperament . 
This man was certainly the most admirable specimen I had ever met . 
One particular feature was his eyes , rather far from each other , and which could take in nearly a quarter of the horizon at once . 
gave him a range of vision far superior to Ned Land's . 
It was a sonorous , harmonious , and flexible dialect , the vowels seeming to admit of very varied accentuation . 
The other replied by a shake of the head , and added two or three perfectly incomprehensible words . 
Then he seemed to question me by a look . 
I replied in good French that I did not know his language but he seemed not to understand me , and my situation became more embarrassing . 
If master were to tell our story , said Conseil , perhaps these gentlemen may understand some words . 
I began to tell our adventures , articulating each syllable clearly , and without omitting one single detail . 
I announced our names and rank , introducing in person Professor Aronnax , his servant Conseil , and master Ned Land , the harpooner . 
The man with the soft calm eyes listened to me quietly , even politely , and with extreme attention but nothing in his countenance indicated that he had understood my story . 
When I finished , he said not a word . 
There remained one resource , to speak English . 
Perhaps they would know this almost universal language . 
I knew it as well as the German language well enough to read it fluently , but not to speak it correctly . 
But , anyhow , we must make ourselves understood . 
To his great disgust , the harpooner did not seem to have made himself more intelligible than I had . 
Our visitors did not stir . 
They evidently understood neither the language of England nor of France . 
But in spite of the elegant terms and good accent of the narrator , the German language had no success . 
At last , nonplussed , I tried to remember my first lessons , and to narrate our adventures in Latin , but with no better success . 
This last attempt being of no avail , the two strangers exchanged some words in their unknown language , and retired . 
It is an infamous shame , cried Ned Land , who broke out for the twentieth time . 
My friends , I said , we must not despair . 
We have been worse off than this . 
Do me the favour to wait a little before forming an opinion upon the commander and crew of this boat . 
My opinion is formed , replied Ned Land , sharply . 
Neither English , French , nor German , that is quite certain . 
However , I am inclined to think that the commander and his companion were born in low latitudes . 
There is southern blood in them . 
But I cannot decide by their appearance whether they are Spaniards , Turks , Arabians , or Indians . 
As to their language , it is quite incomprehensible . 
There is the disadvantage of not knowing all languages , said Conseil , or the disadvantage of not having one universal language . 
As he said these words , the door opened . 
He brought us clothes , coats and trousers , made of a stuff I did not know . 
I hastened to dress myself , and my companions followed my example . 
During that time , the steward dumb , perhaps deaf had arranged the table , and laid three plates . 
This is something like ! said Conseil . 
Bah ! said the angry harpooner , what do you suppose they eat here ? Tortoise liver , filleted shark , and beef steaks from seadogs . 
We shall see , said Conseil . 
The dishes , of bell metal , were placed on the table , and we took our places . 
I must say , however , that there was neither bread nor wine . 
The water was fresh and clear , but it was water and did not suit Ned Land's taste . 
As to the dinner service , it was elegant , and in perfect taste . 
Ned and Conseil did not reflect much . 
They devoured the food , and I did likewise . 
I was , besides , reassured as to our fate and it seemed evident that our hosts would not let us die of want . 
However , everything has an end , everything passes away , even the hunger of people who have not eaten for fifteen hours . 
Our appetites satisfied , we felt overcome with sleep . 
Faith ! I shall sleep well , said Conseil . 
So shall I , replied Ned Land . 
My two companions stretched themselves on the cabin carpet , and were soon sound asleep . 
For my own part , too many thoughts crowded my brain , too many insoluble questions pressed upon me , too many fancies kept my eyes half open . 
Where were we ? What strange power carried us on ? I felt or rather fancied I felt the machine sinking down to the lowest beds of the sea . 
Then my brain grew calmer , my imagination wandered into vague unconsciousness , and I soon fell into a deep sleep . 
CHAPTER IX NED LAND'S TEMPERS How long we slept I do not know but our sleep must have lasted long , for it rested us completely from our fatigues . 
My companions had not moved , and were still stretched in their corner . 
Hardly roused from my somewhat hard couch , I felt my brain freed , my mind clear . 
I then began an attentive examination of our cell . 
The prison was still a prison the prisoners , prisoners . 
However , the steward , during our sleep , had cleared the table . 
The heavy air seemed to oppress my lungs . 
Although the cell was large , we had evidently consumed a great part of the oxygen that it contained . 
with a nearly equal quantity of carbonic acid , becomes unbreathable . 
It became necessary to renew the atmosphere of our prison , and no doubt the whole in the submarine boat . 
That gave rise to a question in my mind . 
It was an invigorating sea breeze , charged with iodine . 
I opened my mouth wide , and my lungs saturated themselves with fresh particles . 
At the same time I felt the boat rolling . 
The iron plated monster had evidently just risen to the surface of the ocean to breathe , after the fashion of whales . 
I found out from that the mode of ventilating the boat . 
When I had inhaled this air freely , I sought the conduit pipe , which conveyed to us the beneficial whiff , and I was not long in finding it . 
Above the door was a ventilator , through which volumes of fresh air renewed the impoverished atmosphere of the cell . 
I was making my observations , when Ned and Conseil awoke almost at the same time , under the influence of this reviving air . 
They rubbed their eyes , stretched themselves , and were on their feet in an instant . 
Did master sleep well ? asked Conseil , with his usual politeness . 
Very well , my brave boy . 
And you , Mr. Land ? Soundly , Professor . 
That accounts for those roarings we heard , when the supposed narwhal sighted the Abraham Lincoln . 
Quite so , Master Land it was taking breath . 
Only , Mr. Aronnax , I have no idea what o'clock it is , unless it is dinner time . 
Dinner time ! my good fellow ? Say rather breakfast time , for we certainly have begun another day . 
So , said Conseil , we have slept twenty four hours ? That is my opinion . 
I will not contradict you , replied Ned Land . 
But , dinner or breakfast , the steward will be welcome , whichever he brings . 
Master Land , we must conform to the rules on board , and I suppose our appetites are in advance of the dinner hour . 
That is just like you , friend Conseil , said Ned , impatiently . 
It was rather too long to leave us , if they really had good intentions towards us . 
Ned Land , tormented by the cravings of hunger , got still more angry and , notwithstanding his promise , I dreaded an explosion when he found himself with one of the crew . 
For two hours more Ned Land's temper increased he cried , he shouted , but in vain . 
There was no sound to be heard in the boat all was still as death . 
It did not move , for I should have felt the trembling motion of the hull under the influence of the screw . 
Plunged in the depths of the waters , it belonged no longer to earth this silence was dreadful . 
I felt terrified , Conseil was calm , Ned Land roared . 
Just then a noise was heard outside . 
Steps sounded on the metal flags . 
The locks were turned , the door opened , and the steward appeared . 
Before I could rush forward to stop him , the Canadian had thrown him down , and held him by the throat . 
The steward was choking under the grip of his powerful hand . 
At these words , Ned Land rose suddenly . 
The steward , nearly strangled , tottered out on a sign from his master . 
But such was the power of the commander on board , that not a gesture betrayed the resentment which this man must have felt towards the Canadian . 
Conseil interested in spite of himself , I stupefied , awaited in silence the result of this scene . 
The commander , leaning against the corner of a table with his arms folded , scanned us with profound attention . 
Did he hesitate to speak ? Did he regret the words which he had just spoken in French ? One might almost think so . 
I could , therefore , have answered you at our first interview , but I wished to know you first , then to reflect . 
The story told by each one , entirely agreeing in the main points , convinced me of your identity . 
It was not a question that the commander put to me . 
Therefore there was no answer to be made . 
This man expressed himself with perfect ease , without any accent . 
His sentences were well turned , his words clear , and his fluency of speech remarkable . 
Yet , I did not recognise in him a fellow countryman . 
He continued the conversation in these terms You have doubtless thought , sir , that I have delayed long in paying you this second visit . 
The reason is that , your identity recognised , I wished to weigh maturely what part to act towards you . 
Most annoying circumstances have brought you into the presence of a man who has broken all the ties of humanity . 
You have come to trouble my existence . 
Unintentionally ! said I. Unintentionally ? replied the stranger , raising his voice a little . 
But to these recriminations I had a very natural answer to make , and I made it . 
Sir , said I , no doubt you are ignorant of the discussions which have taken place concerning you in America and Europe . 
You do not know that divers accidents , caused by collisions with your submarine machine , have excited public feeling in the two continents . 
I omit the theories without number by which it was sought to explain that of which you alone possess the secret . 
He might have thought it his duty to destroy a contrivance of this kind , as he would a gigantic narwhal . 
You understand then , sir , continued the stranger , that I have the right to treat you as enemies ? I answered nothing , purposely . 
Would not that be my right ? It might be the right of a savage , I answered , but not that of a civilised man . 
I do not , therefore , obey its laws , and I desire you never to allude to them before me again ! This was said plainly . 
A flash of anger and disdain kindled in the eyes of the Unknown , and I had a glimpse of a terrible past in the life of this man . 
These reflections crossed my mind rapidly , whilst the stranger personage was silent , absorbed , and as if wrapped up in himself . 
I regarded him with fear mingled with interest , as , doubtless , OEdiphus regarded the Sphinx . 
After rather a long silence , the commander resumed the conversation . 
I have hesitated , said he , but I have thought that my interest might be reconciled with that pity to which every human being has a right . 
You will remain on board my vessel , since fate has cast you there . 
You will be free and , in exchange for this liberty , I shall only impose one single condition . 
Your word of honour to submit to it will suffice . 
Speak , sir , I answered . 
As I desire never to use violence , I expect from you , more than all the others , a passive obedience . 
In thus acting , I take all the responsibility I acquit you entirely , for I make it an impossibility for you to see what ought not to be seen . 
Amongst the surprises which the future was preparing for me , this might not be the least . 
We accept , I answered only I will ask your permission , sir , to address one question to you one only . 
You said that we should be free on board . 
Pardon me , sir , I resumed , but this liberty is only what every prisoner has of pacing his prison . 
It must suffice you , however . 
What ! we must renounce for ever seeing our country , our friends , our relations again ? Yes , sir . 
But to renounce that unendurable worldly yoke which men believe to be liberty is not perhaps so painful as you think . 
Well , exclaimed Ned Land , never will I give my word of honour not to try to escape . 
I did not ask you for your word of honour , Master Land , answered the commander , coldly . 
Sir , I replied , beginning to get angry in spite of my self , you abuse your situation towards us it is cruelty . 
No , sir , it is clemency . 
You are my prisoners of war . 
I keep you , when I could , by a word , plunge you into the depths of the ocean . 
You came to surprise a secret which no man in the world must penetrate the secret of my whole existence . 
These words indicated a resolution taken on the part of the commander , against which no arguments would prevail . 
So , sir , I rejoined , you give us simply the choice between life and death ? Simply . 
My friends , said I , to a question thus put , there is nothing to answer . 
But no word of honour binds us to the master of this vessel . 
None , sir , answered the Unknown . 
Then , in a gentler tone , he continued Now , permit me to finish what I have to say to you . 
I know you , M. Aronnax . 
You and your companions will not , perhaps , have so much to complain of in the chance which has bound you to my fate . 
You will find amongst the books which are my favourite study the work which you have published on the depths of the sea . 
I have often read it . 
You have carried out your work as far as terrestrial science permitted you . 
But you do not know all you have not seen all . 
Let me tell you then , Professor , that you will not regret the time passed on board my vessel . 
You are going to visit the land of marvels . 
These words of the commander had a great effect upon me . 
My weak point was touched and I forgot , for a moment , that the contemplation of these sublime subjects was not worth the loss of liberty . 
Besides , I trusted to the future to decide this grave question . 
The captain gave him his orders in that strange language which I did not understand . 
Then , turning towards the Canadian and Conseil A repast awaits you in your cabin , said he . 
Be so good as to follow this man . 
And now , M. Aronnax , our breakfast is ready . 
Permit me to lead the way . 
I am at your service , Captain . 
After we had proceeded a dozen yards , a second door opened before me . 
I then entered a dining room , decorated and furnished in severe taste . 
High oaken sideboards , inlaid with ebony , stood at the two extremities of the room , and upon their shelves glittered china , porcelain , and glass of inestimable value . 
The plate on the table sparkled in the rays which the luminous ceiling shed around , while the light was tempered and softened by exquisite paintings . 
In the centre of the room was a table richly laid out . 
Captain Nemo indicated the place I was to occupy . 
I acknowledged that they were good , but they had a peculiar flavour , which I easily became accustomed to . 
These different aliments appeared to me to be rich in phosphorus , and I thought they must have a marine origin . 
Captain Nemo looked at me . 
I asked him no questions , but he guessed my thoughts , and answered of his own accord the questions which I was burning to address to him . 
The greater part of these dishes are unknown to you , he said to me . 
However , you may partake of them without fear . 
They are wholesome and nourishing . 
For a long time I have renounced the food of the earth , and I am never ill now . 
My crew , who are healthy , are fed on the same food . 
So , said I , all these eatables are the produce of the sea ? Yes , Professor , the sea supplies all my wants . 
Sometimes I cast my nets in tow , and I draw them in ready to break . 
Sometimes I hunt in the midst of this element , which appears to be inaccessible to man , and quarry the game which dwells in my submarine forests . 
My flocks , like those of Neptune's old shepherds , graze fearlessly in the immense prairies of the ocean . 
I have a vast property there , which I cultivate myself , and which is always sown by the hand of the Creator of all things . 
This , which you believe to be meat , Professor , is nothing else than fillet of turtle . 
Here are also some dolphins' livers , which you take to be ragout of pork . 
My cook is a clever fellow , who excels in dressing these various products of the ocean . 
I tasted , more from curiosity than as a connoisseur , whilst Captain Nemo enchanted me with his extraordinary stories . 
You like the sea , Captain ? Yes I love it ! The sea is everything . 
It covers seven tenths of the terrestrial globe . 
Its breath is pure and healthy . 
It is an immense desert , where man is never lonely , for he feels life stirring on all sides . 
The sea is only the embodiment of a supernatural and wonderful existence . 
It is nothing but love and emotion it is the Living Infinite , as one of your poets has said . 
In fact , Professor , Nature manifests herself in it by her three kingdoms mineral , vegetable , and animal . 
The sea is the vast reservoir of Nature . 
The globe began with sea , so to speak and who knows if it will not end with it ? In it is supreme tranquillity . 
The sea does not belong to despots . 
Upon its surface men can still exercise unjust laws , fight , tear one another to pieces , and be carried away with terrestrial horrors . 
But at thirty feet below its level , their reign ceases , their influence is quenched , and their power disappears . 
For a few moments he paced up and down , much agitated . 
A double door , contrived at the back of the dining room , opened , and I entered a room equal in dimensions to that which I had just quitted . 
High pieces of furniture , of black violet ebony inlaid with brass , supported upon their wide shelves a great number of books uniformly bound . 
They followed the shape of the room , terminating at the lower part in huge divans , covered with brown leather , which were curved , to afford the greatest comfort . 
Light movable desks , made to slide in and out at will , allowed one to rest one's book while reading . 
In the centre stood an immense table , covered with pamphlets , amongst which were some newspapers , already of old date . 
The electric light flooded everything it was shed from four unpolished globes half sunk in the volutes of the ceiling . 
I looked with real admiration at this room , so ingeniously fitted up , and I could scarcely believe my eyes . 
Where could one find greater solitude or silence , Professor ? replied Captain Nemo . 
Did your study in the Museum afford you such perfect quiet ? No , sir and I must confess that it is a very poor one after yours . 
You must have six or seven thousand volumes here . 
Twelve thousand , M. Aronnax . 
These are the only ties which bind me to the earth . 
But I had done with the world on the day when my Nautilus plunged for the first time beneath the waters . 
That day I bought my last volumes , my last pamphlets , my last papers , and from that time I wish to think that men no longer think or write . 
These books , Professor , are at your service besides , and you can make use of them freely . 
I thanked Captain Nemo , and went up to the shelves of the library . 
Works on science , morals , and literature abounded in every language but I did not see one single work on political economy that subject appeared to be strictly proscribed . 
Sir , said I to the Captain , I thank you for having placed this library at my disposal . 
It contains treasures of science , and I shall profit by them . 
This room is not only a library , said Captain Nemo , it is also a smoking room . 
A smoking room ! I cried . 
Then one may smoke on board ? Certainly . 
Then , sir , I am forced to believe that you have kept up a communication with Havannah . 
Not any , answered the Captain . 
Accept this cigar , M. Aronnax and , though it does not come from Havannah , you will be pleased with it , if you are a connoisseur . 
I took the cigar which was offered me its shape recalled the London ones , but it seemed to be made of leaves of gold . 
It is excellent , but it is not tobacco . 
No ! answered the Captain , this tobacco comes neither from Havannah nor from the East . 
It is a kind of sea weed , rich in nicotine , with which the sea provides me , but somewhat sparingly . 
At that moment Captain Nemo opened a door which stood opposite to that by which I had entered the library , and I passed into an immense drawing room splendidly lighted . 
It was a vast , four sided room , thirty feet long , eighteen wide , and fifteen high . 
A luminous ceiling , decorated with light arabesques , shed a soft clear light over all the marvels accumulated in this museum . 
I saw works of great value , the greater part of which I had admired in the special collections of Europe , and in the exhibitions of paintings . 
Some admirable statues in marble and bronze , after the finest antique models , stood upon pedestals in the corners of this magnificent museum . 
Amazement , as the Captain of the Nautilus had predicted , had already begun to take possession of me . 
Professor , said this strange man , you must excuse the unceremonious way in which I receive you , and the disorder of this room . 
Sir , I answered , without seeking to know who you are , I recognise in you an artist . 
An amateur , nothing more , sir . 
Formerly I loved to collect these beautiful works created by the hand of man . 
I sought them greedily , and ferreted them out indefatigably , and I have been able to bring together some objects of great value . 
These are my last souvenirs of that world which is dead to me . 
In my eyes , your modern artists are already old they have two or three thousand years of existence I confound them in my own mind . 
My delight as a professor may be conceived . 
Some of these pearls were larger than a pigeon's egg , and were worth millions . 
this para has been altered the last sentence reworded Therefore , to estimate the value of this collection was simply impossible . 
I can understand , Captain , the delight of wandering about in the midst of such riches . 
You are one of those who have collected their treasures themselves . 
No museum in Europe possesses such a collection of the produce of the ocean . 
But if I exhaust all my admiration upon it , I shall have none left for the vessel which carries it . 
I see suspended on the walls of this room instruments of whose use I am ignorant . 
You will find these same instruments in my own room , Professor , where I shall have much pleasure in explaining their use to you . 
But first come and inspect the cabin which is set apart for your own use . 
You must see how you will be accommodated on board the Nautilus . 
I followed Captain Nemo who , by one of the doors opening from each panel of the drawing room , regained the waist . 
I could only thank my host . 
Your room adjoins mine , said he , opening a door , and mine opens into the drawing room that we have just quitted . 
I entered the Captain's room it had a severe , almost a monkish aspect . 
A small iron bedstead , a table , some articles for the toilet the whole lighted by a skylight . 
No comforts , the strictest necessaries only . 
Captain Nemo pointed to a seat . 
Be so good as to sit down , he said . 
Here , as in the drawing room , I have them always under my eyes , and they indicate my position and exact direction in the middle of the ocean . 
These are the usual nautical instruments , I replied , and I know the use of them . 
But these others , no doubt , answer to the particular requirements of the Nautilus . 
This dial with movable needle is a manometer , is it not ? It is actually a manometer . 
But by communication with the water , whose external pressure it indicates , it gives our depth at the same time . 
And these other instruments , the use of which I cannot guess ? Here , Professor , I ought to give you some explanations . 
Everything is done by means of it . 
It lights , warms it , and is the soul of my mechanical apparatus . 
Electricity ? I cried in surprise . 
Nevertheless , Captain , you possess an extreme rapidity of movement , which does not agree well with the power of electricity . 
Until now , its dynamic force has remained under restraint , and has only been able to produce a small amount of power . 
Professor , said Captain Nemo , my electricity is not everybody's . 
You know what sea water is composed of . 
In a thousand grammes are found per cent . 
of water , and about per cent . 
of chloride of sodium then , in a smaller quantity , chlorides of magnesium and of potassium , bromide of magnesium , sulphate of magnesia , sulphate and carbonate of lime . 
You see , then , that chloride of sodium forms a large part of it . 
So it is this sodium that I extract from the sea water , and of which I compose my ingredients . 
I owe all to the ocean it produces electricity , and electricity gives heat , light , motion , and , in a word , life to the Nautilus . 
It gives a uniform and unintermittent light , which the sun does not . 
Now look at this clock it is electrical , and goes with a regularity that defies the best chronometers . 
Look ! just now , it is ten o'clock in the morning . 
This dial hanging in front of us indicates the speed of the Nautilus . 
An electric thread puts it in communication with the screw , and the needle indicates the real speed . 
Look ! now we are spinning along with a uniform speed of fifteen miles an hour . 
It is marvelous ! And I see , Captain , you were right to make use of this agent that takes the place of wind , water , and steam . 
We have not finished , M. Aronnax , said Captain Nemo , rising . 
If you will allow me , we will examine the stern of the Nautilus . 
Total length thirty five yards , or one hundred and five feet . 
The partitions had doors that were shut hermetically by means of india rubber instruments , and they ensured the safety of the Nautilus in case of a leak . 
I followed Captain Nemo through the waist , and arrived at the centre of the boat . 
There was a sort of well that opened between two partitions . 
An iron ladder , fastened with an iron hook to the partition , led to the upper end . 
I asked the Captain what the ladder was used for . 
It leads to the small boat , he said . 
What ! have you a boat ? I exclaimed , in surprise . 
Of course an excellent vessel , light and insubmersible , that serves either as a fishing or as a pleasure boat . 
But then , when you wish to embark , you are obliged to come to the surface of the water ? Not at all . 
This boat is attached to the upper part of the hull of the Nautilus , and occupies a cavity made for it . 
It is decked , quite water tight , and held together by solid bolts . 
This ladder leads to a man hole made in the hull of the Nautilus , that corresponds with a similar hole made in the side of the boat . 
By this double opening I get into the small vessel . 
They shut the one belonging to the Nautilus I shut the other by means of screw pressure . 
I undo the bolts , and the little boat goes up to the surface of the sea with prodigious rapidity . 
I then open the panel of the bridge , carefully shut till then I mast it , hoist my sail , take my oars , and I'm off . 
But how do you get back on board ? I do not come back , M. Aronnax the Nautilus comes to me . 
By your orders ? By my orders . 
An electric thread connects us . 
I telegraph to it , and that is enough . 
Really , I said , astonished at these marvels , nothing can be more simple . 
Then a door opened into a kitchen nine feet long , situated between the large store rooms . 
There electricity , better than gas itself , did all the cooking . 
The streams under the furnaces gave out to the sponges of platina a heat which was regularly kept up and distributed . 
They also heated a distilling apparatus , which , by evaporation , furnished excellent drinkable water . 
Near this kitchen was a bathroom comfortably furnished , with hot and cold water taps . 
Next to the kitchen was the berth room of the vessel , sixteen feet long . 
But the door was shut , and I could not see the management of it , which might have given me an idea of the number of men employed on board the Nautilus . 
At the bottom was a fourth partition that separated this office from the engine room . 
A door opened , and I found myself in the compartment where Captain Nemo certainly an engineer of a very high order had arranged his locomotive machinery . 
This engine room , clearly lighted , did not measure less than sixty five feet in length . 
It was divided into two parts the first contained the materials for producing electricity , and the second the machinery that connected it with the screw . 
I examined it with great interest , in order to understand the machinery of the Nautilus . 
You see , said the Captain , I use Bunsen's contrivances , not Ruhmkorff's . 
Those would not have been powerful enough . 
Bunsen's are fewer in number , but strong and large , which experience proves to be the best . 
This one , the diameter of which is nineteen feet , and the thread twenty three feet , performs about revolutions in a second . 
And you get then ? A speed of fifty miles an hour . 
I have seen the Nautilus manoeuvre before the Abraham Lincoln , and I have my own ideas as to its speed . 
But this is not enough . 
We must see where we go . 
We must be able to direct it to the right , to the left , above , below . 
Come into the saloon , it is our usual study , and there you will learn all you want to know about the Nautilus . 
CHAPTER XII SOME FIGURES A moment after we were seated on a divan in the saloon smoking . 
The Captain showed me a sketch that gave the plan , section , and elevation of the Nautilus . 
Then he began his description in these words Here , M. Aronnax , are the several dimensions of the boat you are in . 
It is an elongated cylinder with conical ends . 
It is very like a cigar in shape , a shape already adopted in London in several constructions of the same sort . 
The length of this cylinder , from stem to stern , is exactly feet , and its maximum breadth is twenty six feet . 
These two dimensions enable you to obtain by a simple calculation the surface and cubic contents of the Nautilus . 
Its area measures , feet and its contents about , cubic yards that is to say , when completely immersed it displaces , feet of water , or weighs , tons . 
I ought not , therefore , to have exceeded that weight , constructing it on the aforesaid dimensions . 
The Nautilus is composed of two hulls , one inside , the other outside , joined by T shaped irons , which render it very strong . 
Indeed , owing to this cellular arrangement it resists like a block , as if it were solid . 
Its sides cannot yield it coheres spontaneously , and not by the closeness of its rivets and its perfect union of the materials enables it to defy the roughest seas . 
These two hulls are composed of steel plates , whose density is from . 
The first is not less than two inches and a half thick and weighs tons . 
The second envelope , the keel , twenty inches high and ten thick , weighs only sixty two tons . 
The engine , the ballast , the several accessories and apparatus appendages , the partitions and bulkheads , weigh . 
Do you follow all this ? I do . 
Then , when the Nautilus is afloat under these circumstances , one tenth is out of the water . 
That would happen , Professor . 
These reservoirs are in the lower part of the Nautilus . 
I turn on taps and they fill , and the vessel sinks that had just been level with the surface . 
Well , Captain , but now we come to the real difficulty . 
Then , unless you quite fill the Nautilus , I do not see how you can draw it down to those depths . 
Professor , you must not confound statics with dynamics or you will be exposed to grave errors . 
There is very little labour spent in attaining the lower regions of the ocean , for all bodies have a tendency to sink . 
Now , if water is not absolutely incompressible , it is at least capable of very slight compression . 
Indeed , after the most recent calculations this reduction is only . 
of an atmosphere for each thirty feet of depth . 
If we want to sink , feet , I should keep account of the reduction of bulk under a pressure equal to that of a column of water of a thousand feet . 
The calculation is easily verified . 
Now , I have supplementary reservoirs capable of holding a hundred tons . 
Therefore I can sink to a considerable depth . 
I had nothing to object to these reasonings . 
I admit your calculations , Captain , I replied I should be wrong to dispute them since daily experience confirms them but I foresee a real difficulty in the way . 
What , sir ? When you are about , feet deep , the walls of the Nautilus bear a pressure of atmospheres . 
From that a power That electricity alone can give , said the Captain , hastily . 
I repeat , sir , that the dynamic power of my engines is almost infinite . 
The pumps of the Nautilus have an enormous power , as you must have observed when their jets of water burst like a torrent upon the Abraham Lincoln . 
Besides , I use subsidiary reservoirs only to attain a mean depth of to , fathoms , and that with a view of managing my machines . 
Also , when I have a mind to visit the depths of the ocean five or six mlles below the surface , I make use of slower but not less infallible means . 
What are they , Captain ? That involves my telling you how the Nautilus is worked . 
I am impatient to learn . 
If the planes are kept parallel with the boat , it moves horizontally . 
If slanted , the Nautilus , according to this inclination , and under the influence of the screw , either sinks diagonally or rises diagonally as it suits me . 
Are these lenses capable of resisting such pressure ? Perfectly . 
Glass , which breaks at a blow , is , nevertheless , capable of offering considerable resistance . 
During some experiments of fishing by electric light in in the Northern Seas , we saw plates less than a third of an inch thick resist a pressure of sixteen atmospheres . 
Now , the glass that I use is not less than thirty times thicker . 
Ah ! bravo , bravo , Captain ! Now I can account for this phosphorescence in the supposed narwhal that puzzled us so . 
I was sailing only one fathom below the surface of the water when the shock came . 
It had no bad result . 
I contented myself , however , with putting the frigate hors de combat she will not have any difficulty in getting repaired at the next port . 
Ah , Commander ! your Nautilus is certainly a marvellous boat . 
Yes , Professor and I love it as if it were part of myself . 
If danger threatens one of your vessels on the ocean , the first impression is the feeling of an abyss above and below . 
On the Nautilus men's hearts never fail them . 
But how could you construct this wonderful Nautilus in secret ? Each separate portion , M. Aronnax , was brought from different parts of the globe . 
But these parts had to be put together and arranged ? Professor , I had set up my workshops upon a desert island in the ocean . 
There my workmen , that is to say , the brave men that I instructed and educated , and myself have put together our Nautilus . 
Then , when the work was finished , fire destroyed all trace of our proceedings on this island , that I could have jumped over if I had liked . 
Then the cost of this vessel is great ? M. Aronnax , an iron vessel costs L per ton . 
Now the Nautilus weighed , . 
It came therefore to L , , and L , more for fitting it up , and about L , , with the works of art and the collections it contains . 
One last question , Captain Nemo . 
You are rich ? Immensely rich , sir and I could , without missing it , pay the national debt of France . 
I stared at the singular person who spoke thus . 
Was he playing upon my credulity ? The future would decide that . 
CHAPTER XIII THE BLACK RIVER The portion of the terrestrial globe which is covered by water is estimated at upwards of eighty millions of acres . 
This mass of fluid is equal to about the quantity of water which would be discharged by all the rivers of the earth in forty thousand years . 
During the geological epochs the ocean originally prevailed everywhere . 
The solid had wrested from the liquid thirty seven million six hundred and fifty seven square miles , equal to twelve billions nine hundred and sixty millions of acres . 
The Pacific Ocean extends from north to south between the two Polar Circles , and from east to west between Asia and America , over an extent of degrees of longitude . 
It is the quietest of seas its currents are broad and slow , it has medium tides , and abundant rain . 
Such was the ocean that my fate destined me first to travel over under these strange conditions . 
Sir , said Captain Nemo , we will , if you please , take our bearings and fix the starting point of this voyage . 
It is a quarter to twelve I will go up again to the surface . 
The Captain pressed an electric clock three times . 
The pumps began to drive the water from the tanks the needle of the manometer marked by a different pressure the ascent of the Nautilus , then it stopped . 
We have arrived , said the Captain . 
I went to the central staircase which opened on to the platform , clambered up the iron steps , and found myself on the upper part of the Nautilus . 
The platform was only three feet out of water . 
The front and back of the Nautilus was of that spindle shape which caused it justly to be compared to a cigar . 
I noticed that its iron plates , slightly overlaying each other , resembled the shell which clothes the bodies of our large terrestrial reptiles . 
It explained to me how natural it was , in spite of all glasses , that this boat should have been taken for a marine animal . 
Toward the middle of the platform the longboat , half buried in the hull of the vessel , formed a slight excrescence . 
The sea was beautiful , the sky pure . 
Scarcely could the long vehicle feel the broad undulations of the ocean . 
A light breeze from the east rippled the surface of the waters . 
The horizon , free from fog , made observation easy . 
Not a quicksand , not an island . 
Captain Nemo , by the help of his sextant , took the altitude of the sun , which ought also to give the latitude . 
He waited for some moments till its disc touched the horizon . 
Whilst taking observations not a muscle moved , the instrument could not have been more motionless in a hand of marble . 
Twelve o'clock , sir , said he . 
When you like I cast a last look upon the sea , slightly yellowed by the Japanese coast , and descended to the saloon . 
And now , sir , I leave you to your studies , added the Captain our course is E. N. E. , our depth is twenty six fathoms . 
Here are maps on a large scale by which you may follow it . 
The saloon is at your disposal , and , with your permission , I will retire . 
Captain Nemo bowed , and I remained alone , lost in thoughts all bearing on the commander of the Nautilus . 
For a whole hour was I deep in these reflections , seeking to pierce this mystery so interesting to me . 
Then my eyes fell upon the vast planisphere spread upon the table , and I placed my finger on the very spot where the given latitude and longitude crossed . 
The sea has its large rivers like the continents . 
They are special currents known by their temperature and their colour . 
The most remarkable of these is known by the name of the Gulf Stream . 
It is even probable that a sixth current existed at one time or another in the Northern Indian Ocean , when the Caspian and Aral Seas formed but one vast sheet of water . 
It was this current that the Nautilus was to follow . 
My two brave companions remained petrified at the sight of the wonders spread before them . 
Where are we , where are we ? exclaimed the Canadian . 
This ship is a masterpiece of modern industry , and I should be sorry not to have seen it . 
Many people would accept the situation forced upon us , if only to move amongst such wonders . 
So be quiet and let us try and see what passes around us . 
See ! exclaimed the harpooner , but we can see nothing in this iron prison ! We are walking we are sailing blindly . 
Ned Land had scarcely pronounced these words when all was suddenly darkness . 
The luminous ceiling was gone , and so rapidly that my eyes received a painful impression . 
We remained mute , not stirring , and not knowing what surprise awaited us , whether agreeable or disagreeable . 
A sliding noise was heard one would have said that panels were working at the sides of the Nautilus . 
It is the end of the end ! said Ned Land . 
Suddenly light broke at each side of the saloon , through two oblong openings . 
The liquid mass appeared vividly lit up by the electric gleam . 
Two crystal plates separated us from the sea . 
At first I trembled at the thought that this frail partition might break , but strong bands of copper bound them , giving an almost infinite power of resistance . 
The sea was distinctly visible for a mile all round the Nautilus . 
The mineral and organic substances which it holds in suspension heightens its transparency . 
In certain parts of the ocean at the Antilles , under seventy five fathoms of water , can be seen with surprising clearness a bed of sand . 
The penetrating power of the solar rays does not seem to cease for a depth of one hundred and fifty fathoms . 
But in this middle fluid travelled over by the Nautilus , the electric brightness was produced even in the bosom of the waves . 
It was no longer luminous water , but liquid light . 
On each side a window opened into this unexplored abyss . 
The obscurity of the saloon showed to advantage the brightness outside , and we looked out as if this pure crystal had been the glass of an immense aquarium . 
You wished to see , friend Ned well , you see now . 
For two whole hours an aquatic army escorted the Nautilus . 
Our imagination was kept at its height , interjections followed quickly on each other . 
Ned named the fish , and Conseil classed them . 
I was in ecstasies with the vivacity of their movements and the beauty of their forms . 
Never had it been given to me to surprise these animals , alive and at liberty , in their natural element . 
I will not mention all the varieties which passed before my dazzled eyes , all the collection of the seas of China and Japan . 
These fish , more numerous than the birds of the air , came , attracted , no doubt , by the brilliant focus of the electric light . 
Suddenly there was daylight in the saloon , the iron panels closed again , and the enchanting vision disappeared . 
But for a long time I dreamt on , till my eyes fell on the instruments hanging on the partition . 
I expected Captain Nemo , but he did not appear . 
The clock marked the hour of five . 
Ned Land and Conseil returned to their cabin , and I retired to my chamber . 
, and fillets of the emperor holocanthus , the savour of which seemed to me superior even to salmon . 
I passed the evening reading , writing , and thinking . 
Then sleep overpowered me , and I stretched myself on my couch of zostera , and slept profoundly , whilst the Nautilus was gliding rapidly through the current of the Black River . 
CHAPTER XIV A NOTE OF INVITATION The next day was the th of November . 
I awoke after a long sleep of twelve hours . 
Conseil came , according to custom , to know how I passed the night , and to offer his services . 
He had left his friend the Canadian sleeping like a man who had never done anything else all his life . 
I let the worthy fellow chatter as he pleased , without caring to answer him . 
I was preoccupied by the absence of the Captain during our sitting of the day before , and hoping to see him to day . 
As soon as I was dressed I went into the saloon . 
I plunged into the study of the shell treasures hidden behind the glasses . 
The whole day passed without my being honoured by a visit from Captain Nemo . 
The panels of the saloon did not open . 
Perhaps they did not wish us to tire of these beautiful things . 
The course of the Nautilus was E. N. E. , her speed twelve knots , the depth below the surface between twenty five and thirty fathoms . 
The next day , th of November , the same desertion , the same solitude . 
I did not see one of the ship's crew Ned and Conseil spent the greater part of the day with me . 
They were astonished at the puzzling absence of the Captain . 
Our host kept to his terms of the treaty . 
We could not complain , and , indeed , the singularity of our fate reserved such wonderful compensation for us that we had no right to accuse it as yet . 
That day I commenced the journal of these adventures which has enabled me to relate them with more scrupulous exactitude and minute detail . 
th November , early in the morning . 
The fresh air spreading over the interior of the Nautilus told me that we had come to the surface of the ocean to renew our supply of oxygen . 
I directed my steps to the central staircase , and mounted the platform . 
It was six o'clock , the weather was cloudy , the sea grey , but calm . 
Captain Nemo , whom I hoped to meet , would he be there ? I saw no one but the steersman imprisoned in his glass cage . 
Seated upon the projection formed by the hull of the pinnace , I inhaled the salt breeze with delight . 
By degrees the fog disappeared under the action of the sun's rays , the radiant orb rose from behind the eastern horizon . 
The sea flamed under its glance like a train of gunpowder . 
The clouds scattered in the heights were coloured with lively tints of beautiful shades , and numerous mare's tails , which betokened wind for that day . 
I was prepared to salute Captain Nemo , but it was his second who appeared . 
He advanced on the platform , not seeming to see me . 
With his powerful glass to his eye , he scanned every point of the horizon with great attention . 
This examination over , he approached the panel and pronounced a sentence in exactly these terms . 
I have remembered it , for every morning it was repeated under exactly the same conditions . 
It was thus worded Nautron respoc lorni virch . 
What it meant I could not say . 
These words pronounced , the second descended . 
I thought that the Nautilus was about to return to its submarine navigation . 
I regained the panel and returned to my chamber . 
Five days sped thus , without any change in our situation . 
Every morning I mounted the platform . 
The same phrase was pronounced by the same individual . 
But Captain Nemo did not appear . 
It was written in a bold , clear hand , the characters rather pointed , recalling the German type . 
The note was worded as follows TO PROFESSOR ARONNAX , On board the Nautilus . 
Captain Nemo invites Professor Aronnax to a hunting party , which will take place to morrow morning in the forests of the Island of Crespo . 
He hopes that nothing will prevent the Professor from being present , and he will with pleasure see him joined by his companions . 
CAPTAIN NEMO , Commander of the Nautilus . 
A hunt ! exclaimed Ned . 
And in the forests of the Island of Crespo ! added Conseil . 
Oh ! then the gentleman is going on terra firma ? replied Ned Land . 
That seems to me to be clearly indicated , said I , reading the letter once more . 
Well , we must accept , said the Canadian . 
But once more on dry ground , we shall know what to do . 
Indeed , I shall not be sorry to eat a piece of fresh venison . 
I consulted the planisphere , and in N. lat . 
We were then about eighteen hundred miles from our starting point , and the course of the Nautilus , a little changed , was bringing it back towards the southeast . 
I showed this little rock , lost in the midst of the North Pacific , to my companions . 
If Captain Nemo does sometimes go on dry ground , said I , he at least chooses desert islands . 
Ned Land shrugged his shoulders without speaking , and Conseil and he left me . 
After supper , which was served by the steward , mute and impassive , I went to bed , not without some anxiety . 
The next morning , the th of November , on awakening , I felt that the Nautilus was perfectly still . 
I dressed quickly and entered the saloon . 
Captain Nemo was there , waiting for me . 
He rose , bowed , and asked me if it was convenient for me to accompany him . 
As he made no allusion to his absence during the last eight days , I did not mention it , and simply answered that my companions and myself were ready to follow him . 
We entered the dining room , where breakfast was served . 
M. Aronnax , said the Captain , pray , share my breakfast without ceremony we will chat as we eat . 
For , though I promised you a walk in the forest , I did not undertake to find hotels there . 
So breakfast as a man who will most likely not have his dinner till very late . 
I did honour to the repast . 
It was composed of several kinds of fish , and slices of sea cucumber , and different sorts of seaweed . 
Captain Nemo ate at first without saying a word . 
Then he began Sir , when I proposed to you to hunt in my submarine forest of Crespo , you evidently thought me mad . 
Sir , you should never judge lightly of any man . 
But Captain , believe me Be kind enough to listen , and you will then see whether you have any cause to accuse me of folly and contradiction . 
You know as well as I do , Professor , that man can live under water , providing he carries with him a sufficient supply of breathable air . 
In submarine works , the workman , clad in an impervious dress , with his head in a metal helmet , receives air from above by means of forcing pumps and regulators . 
And the means of getting free ? I asked . 
It consists of a reservoir of thick iron plates , in which I store the air under a pressure of fifty atmospheres . 
This reservoir is fixed on the back by means of braces , like a soldier's knapsack . 
Its upper part forms a box in which the air is kept by means of a bellows , and therefore cannot escape unless at its normal tension . 
Perfectly , Captain Nemo but the air that you carry with you must soon be used when it only contains fifteen per cent . 
of oxygen it is no longer fit to breathe . 
I have no further objections to make , I answered . 
It is composed of a Bunsen pile , which I do not work with bichromate of potash , but with sodium . 
A wire is introduced which collects the electricity produced , and directs it towards a particularly made lantern . 
In this lantern is a spiral glass which contains a small quantity of carbonic gas . 
When the apparatus is at work this gas becomes luminous , giving out a white and continuous light . 
Thus provided , I can breathe and I can see . 
Captain Nemo , to all my objections you make such crushing answers that I dare no longer doubt . 
But , if I am forced to admit the Rouquayrol and Ruhmkorff apparatus , I must be allowed some reservations with regard to the gun I am to carry . 
But it is not a gun for powder , answered the Captain . 
Then it is an air gun . 
That would be no difficulty . 
But I repeat , having no powder , I use air under great pressure , which the pumps of the Nautilus furnish abundantly . 
But this air must be rapidly used ? Well , have I not my Rouquayrol reservoir , which can furnish it at need ? A tap is all that is required . 
Besides M. Aronnax , you must see yourself that , during our submarine hunt , we can spend but little air and but few balls . 
Sir , on the contrary , with this gun every blow is mortal and , however lightly the animal is touched , it falls as if struck by a thunderbolt . 
Why ? Because the balls sent by this gun are not ordinary balls , but little cases of glass . 
With the slightest shock they are discharged , and the animal , however strong it may be , falls dead . 
I must tell you that these cases are size number four , and that the charge for an ordinary gun would be ten . 
I will argue no longer , I replied , rising from the table . 
I have nothing left me but to take my gun . 
At all events , I will go where you go . 
Captain Nemo then led me aft and in passing before Ned's and Conseil's cabin , I called my two companions , who followed promptly . 
We then came to a cell near the machinery room , in which we put on our walking dress . 
CHAPTER XV A WALK ON THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA This cell was , to speak correctly , the arsenal and wardrobe of the Nautilus . 
A dozen diving apparatuses hung from the partition waiting our use . 
Ned Land , on seeing them , showed evident repugnance to dress himself in one . 
But , my worthy Ned , the forests of the Island of Crespo are nothing but submarine forests . 
Good ! said the disappointed harpooner , who saw his dreams of fresh meat fade away . 
And you , M. Aronnax , are you going to dress yourself in those clothes ? There is no alternative , Master Ned . 
As you please , sir , replied the harpooner , shrugging his shoulders but , as for me , unless I am forced , I will never get into one . 
No one will force you , Master Ned , said Captain Nemo . 
Is Conseil going to risk it ? asked Ned . 
I follow my master wherever he goes , replied Conseil . 
One would have thought it a suit of armour , both supple and resisting . 
This suit formed trousers and waistcoat . 
The trousers were finished off with thick boots , weighted with heavy leaden soles . 
There was a vast difference noticeable between these consummate apparatuses and the old cork breastplates , jackets , and other contrivances in vogue during the eighteenth century . 
, Conseil and myself were soon enveloped in the dresses . 
There remained nothing more to be done but to enclose our heads in the metal box . 
But , before proceeding to this operation , I asked the Captain's permission to examine the guns . 
One of the Nautilus men gave me a simple gun , the butt end of which , made of steel , hollow in the centre , was rather large . 
It served as a reservoir for compressed air , which a valve , worked by a spring , allowed to escape into a metal tube . 
As soon as one shot was fired , another was ready . 
Captain Nemo , said I , this arm is perfect , and easily handled I only ask to be allowed to try it . 
But how shall we get off ? You shall see . 
Captain Nemo thrust his head into the helmet , Conseil and I did the same , not without hearing an ironical Good sport ! from the Canadian . 
The upper part of our dress terminated in a copper collar upon which was screwed the metal helmet . 
Three holes , protected by thick glass , allowed us to see in all directions , by simply turning our head in the interior of the head dress . 
As soon as it was in position , the Rouquayrol apparatus on our backs began to act and , for my part , I could breathe with ease . 
With the Ruhmkorff lamp hanging from my belt , and the gun in my hand , I was ready to set out . 
But to speak the truth , imprisoned in these heavy garments , and glued to the deck by my leaden soles , it was impossible for me to take a step . 
But this state of things was provided for . 
I felt myself being pushed into a little room contiguous to the wardrobe room . 
My companions followed , towed along in the same way . 
I heard a water tight door , furnished with stopper plates , close upon us , and we were wrapped in profound darkness . 
After some minutes , a loud hissing was heard . 
I felt the cold mount from my feet to my chest . 
A second door cut in the side of the Nautilus then opened . 
We saw a faint light . 
In another instant our feet trod the bottom of the sea . 
Conseil and I remained near each other , as if an exchange of words had been possible through our metallic cases . 
The light , which lit the soil thirty feet below the surface of the ocean , astonished me by its power . 
The solar rays shone through the watery mass easily , and dissipated all colour , and I clearly distinguished objects at a distance of a hundred and fifty yards . 
Beyond that the tints darkened into fine gradations of ultramarine , and faded into vague obscurity . 
Truly this water which surrounded me was but another air denser than the terrestrial atmosphere , but almost as transparent . 
Above me was the calm surface of the sea . 
We were walking on fine , even sand , not wrinkled , as on a flat shore , which retains the impression of the billows . 
This dazzling carpet , really a reflector , repelled the rays of the sun with wonderful intensity , which accounted for the vibration which penetrated every atom of liquid . 
Soon forms of objects outlined in the distance were discernible . 
I recognised magnificent rocks , hung with a tapestry of zoophytes of the most beautiful kind , and I was at first struck by the peculiar effect of this medium . 
So , for want of better , I talked to myself I declaimed in the copper box which covered my head , thereby expending more air in vain words than was perhaps wise . 
, of staircases , and red helmet shells , angel wings , and many others produced by this inexhaustible ocean . 
All these wonders I saw in the space of a quarter of a mile , scarcely stopping , and following Captain Nemo , who beckoned me on by signs . 
Soon the nature of the soil changed to the sandy plain succeeded an extent of slimy mud which the Americans call ooze , composed of equal parts of silicious and calcareous shells . 
We then travelled over a plain of seaweed of wild and luxuriant vegetation . 
This sward was of close texture , and soft to the feet , and rivalled the softest carpet woven by the hand of man . 
But whilst verdure was spread at our feet , it did not abandon our heads . 
A light network of marine plants , of that inexhaustible family of seaweeds of which more than two thousand kinds are known , grew on the surface of the water . 
We had quitted the Nautilus about an hour and a half . 
It was near noon I knew by the perpendicularity of the sun's rays , which were no longer refracted . 
The magical colours disappeared by degrees , and the shades of emerald and sapphire were effaced . 
At this period the earth sloped downwards the light took a uniform tint . 
We were at a depth of a hundred and five yards and twenty inches , undergoing a pressure of six atmospheres . 
At this moment Captain Nemo stopped he waited till I joined him , and then pointed to an obscure mass , looming in the shadow , at a short distance . 
It is the forest of the Island of Crespo , thought I and I was not mistaken . 
CHAPTER XVI A SUBMARINE FOREST We had at last arrived on the borders of this forest , doubtless one of the finest of Captain Nemo's immense domains . 
He looked upon it as his own , and considered he had the same right over it that the first men had in the first days of the world . 
Not a filament , not a ribbon , however thin they might be , but kept as straight as a rod of iron . 
The fuci and llianas grew in rigid perpendicular lines , due to the density of the element which had produced them . 
Motionless yet , when bent to one side by the hand , they directly resumed their former position . 
Truly it was the region of perpendicularity ! I soon accustomed myself to this fantastic position , as well as to the comparative darkness which surrounded us . 
The soil of the forest seemed covered with sharp blocks , difficult to avoid . 
The submarine flora struck me as being very perfect , and richer even than it would have been in the arctic or tropical zones , where these productions are not so plentiful . 
These plants are self propagated , and the principle of their existence is in the water , which upholds and nourishes them . 
The greater number , instead of leaves , shoot forth blades of capricious shapes , comprised within a scale of colours pink , carmine , green , olive , fawn , and brown . 
After four hours of this walking , I was surprised not to find myself dreadfully hungry . 
How to account for this state of the stomach I could not tell . 
But instead I felt an insurmountable desire to sleep , which happens to all divers . 
And my eyes soon closed behind the thick glasses , and I fell into a heavy slumber , which the movement alone had prevented before . 
Captain Nemo and his robust companion , stretched in the clear crystal , set us the example . 
How long I remained buried in this drowsiness I cannot judge , but , when I woke , the sun seemed sinking towards the horizon . 
Captain Nemo had already risen , and I was beginning to stretch my limbs , when an unexpected apparition brought me briskly to my feet . 
A few steps off , a monstrous sea spider , about thirty eight inches high , was watching me with squinting eyes , ready to spring upon me . 
Though my diver's dress was thick enough to defend me from the bite of this animal , I could not help shuddering with horror . 
Conseil and the sailor of the Nautilus awoke at this moment . 
This incident reminded me that other animals more to be feared might haunt these obscure depths , against whose attacks my diving dress would not protect me . 
I had never thought of it before , but I now resolved to be upon my guard . 
The ground was still on the incline , its declivity seemed to be getting greater , and to be leading us to greater depths . 
It must have been about three o'clock when we reached a narrow valley , between high perpendicular walls , situated about seventy five fathoms deep . 
Thanks to the perfection of our apparatus , we were forty five fathoms below the limit which nature seems to have imposed on man as to his submarine excursions . 
I say seventy five fathoms , though I had no instrument by which to judge the distance . 
But I knew that even in the clearest waters the solar rays could not penetrate further . 
And accordingly the darkness deepened . 
At ten paces not an object was visible . 
I was groping my way , when I suddenly saw a brilliant white light . 
Captain Nemo had just put his electric apparatus into use his companion did the same , and Conseil and I followed their example . 
As we walked I thought the light of our Ruhmkorff apparatus could not fail to draw some inhabitant from its dark couch . 
But if they did approach us , they at least kept at a respectful distance from the hunters . 
Several times I saw Captain Nemo stop , put his gun to his shoulder , and after some moments drop it and walk on . 
At last , after about four hours , this marvellous excursion came to an end . 
It was the earth ! Captain Nemo stopped suddenly . 
A gesture of his brought us all to a halt and , however desirous I might be to scale the wall , I was obliged to stop . 
Here ended Captain Nemo's domains . 
And he would not go beyond them . 
Further on was a portion of the globe he might not trample upon . 
Captain Nemo had returned to the head of his little band , directing their course without hesitation . 
I thought we were not following the same road to return to the Nautilus . 
The new road was very steep , and consequently very painful . 
We approached the surface of the sea rapidly . 
Very soon light reappeared and grew , and , the sun being low on the horizon , the refraction edged the different objects with a spectral ring . 
He fired I heard a slight hissing , and a creature fell stunned at some distance from us . 
It was a magnificent sea otter , an enhydrus , the only exclusively marine quadruped . 
This otter was five feet long , and must have been very valuable . 
Captain Nemo's companion took the beast , threw it over his shoulder , and we continued our journey . 
For one hour a plain of sand lay stretched before us . 
Sometimes it rose to within two yards and some inches of the surface of the water . 
On this occasion I was witness to one of the finest gun shots which ever made the nerves of a hunter thrill . 
A large bird of great breadth of wing , clearly visible , approached , hovering over us . 
Captain Nemo's companion shouldered his gun and fired , when it was only a few yards above the waves . 
The creature fell stunned , and the force of its fall brought it within the reach of dexterous hunter's grasp . 
It was an albatross of the finest kind . 
Our march had not been interrupted by this incident . 
For two hours we followed these sandy plains , then fields of algae very disagreeable to cross . 
Candidly , I could do no more when I saw a glimmer of light , which , for a half mile , broke the darkness of the waters . 
It was the lantern of the Nautilus . 
Before twenty minutes were over we should be on board , and I should be able to breathe with ease , for it seemed that my reservoir supplied air very deficient in oxygen . 
But I did not reckon on an accidental meeting which delayed our arrival for some time . 
I had remained some steps behind , when I presently saw Captain Nemo coming hurriedly towards me . 
With his strong hand he bent me to the ground , his companion doing the same to Conseil . 
At first I knew not what to think of this sudden attack , but I was soon reassured by seeing the Captain lie down beside me , and remain immovable . 
My blood froze in my veins as I recognised two formidable sharks which threatened us . 
It was a couple of tintoreas , terrible creatures , with enormous tails and a dull glassy stare , the phosphorescent matter ejected from holes pierced around the muzzle . 
Monstrous brutes ! which would crush a whole man in their iron jaws . 
Happily the voracious creatures do not see well . 
They passed without seeing us , brushing us with their brownish fins , and we escaped by a miracle from a danger certainly greater than meeting a tiger full face in the forest . 
Half an hour after , guided by the electric light we reached the Nautilus . 
The outside door had been left open , and Captain Nemo closed it as soon as we had entered the first cell . 
He then pressed a knob . 
I heard the pumps working in the midst of the vessel , I felt the water sinking from around me , and in a few moments the cell was entirely empty . 
The inside door then opened , and we entered the vestry . 
I was admiring the magnificent aspect of the ocean when Captain Nemo appeared . 
He did not seem to be aware of my presence , and began a series of astronomical observations . 
Then , when he had finished , he went and leant on the cage of the watch light , and gazed abstractedly on the ocean . 
In the meantime , a number of the sailors of the Nautilus , all strong and healthy men , had come up onto the platform . 
They came to draw up the nets that had been laid all night . 
These sailors were evidently of different nations , although the European type was visible in all of them . 
I recognised some unmistakable Irishmen , Frenchmen , some Sclaves , and a Greek , or a Candiote . 
They were civil , and only used that odd language among themselves , the origin of which I could not guess , neither could I question them . 
The nets were hauled in . 
They were a large kind of chaluts , like those on the Normandy coasts , great pockets that the waves and a chain fixed in the smaller meshes kept open . 
These pockets , drawn by iron poles , swept through the water , and gathered in everything in their way . 
That day they brought up curious specimens from those productive coasts . 
I reckoned that the haul had brought in more than nine hundredweight of fish . 
It was a fine haul , but not to be wondered at . 
Indeed , the nets are let down for several hours , and enclose in their meshes an infinite variety . 
We had no lack of excellent food , and the rapidity of the Nautilus and the attraction of the electric light could always renew our supply . 
These several productions of the sea were immediately lowered through the panel to the steward's room , some to be eaten fresh , and others pickled . 
Yesterday it slept as we did , and now it has woke after a quiet night . 
Look ! he continued , it wakes under the caresses of the sun . 
It is going to renew its diurnal existence . 
It is an interesting study to watch the play of its organisation . 
It has a pulse , arteries , spasms and I agree with the learned Maury , who discovered in it a circulation as real as the circulation of blood in animals . 
Yes , the ocean has indeed circulation , and to promote it , the Creator has caused things to multiply in it caloric , salt , and animalculae . 
When Captain Nemo spoke thus , he seemed altogether changed , and aroused an extraordinary emotion in me . 
Yet who knows whether some despot Captain Nemo finished his sentence with a violent gesture . 
Then , addressing me as if to chase away some sorrowful thought M. Aronnax , he asked . 
do you know the depth of the ocean ? I only know , Captain , what the principal soundings have taught us . 
Could you tell me them , so that I can suit them to my purpose ? These are some , I replied , that I remember . 
If I am not mistaken , a depth of , yards has been found in the North Atlantic , and , yards in the Mediterranean . 
The most remarkable soundings have been made in the South Atlantic , near the thirty fifth parallel , and they gave , yards , , yards , and , yards . 
To sum up all , it is reckoned that if the bottom of the sea were levelled , its mean depth would be about one and three quarter leagues . 
Well , Professor , replied the Captain , we shall show you better than that I hope . 
As to the mean depth of this part of the Pacific , I tell you it is only , yards . 
Having said this , Captain Nemo went towards the panel , and disappeared down the ladder . 
I followed him , and went into the large drawing room . 
The screw was immediately put in motion , and the log gave twenty miles an hour . 
During the days and weeks that passed , Captain Nemo was very sparing of his visits . 
The lieutenant pricked the ship's course regularly on the chart , so I could always tell exactly the route of the Nautilus . 
Nearly every day , for some time , the panels of the drawing room were opened , and we were never tired of penetrating the mysteries of the submarine world . 
The general direction of the Nautilus was south east , and it kept between and yards of depth . 
One day , however , I do not know why , being drawn diagonally by means of the inclined planes , it touched the bed of the sea . 
The thermometer indicated a temperature of . 
a temperature that at this depth seemed common to all latitudes . 
At three o'clock in the morning of the th of November the Nautilus crossed the tropic of Cancer at long . 
On th instant it sighted the Sandwich Islands , where Cook died , February , . 
We had then gone , leagues from our starting point . 
In the morning , when I went on the platform , I saw two miles to windward , Hawaii , the largest of the seven islands that form the group . 
Besides other things the nets brought up , were several flabellariae and graceful polypi , that are peculiar to that part of the ocean . 
The direction of the Nautilus was still to the south east . 
It crossed the equator December , in long . 
and on the th of the same month , after crossing rapidly and without anything in particular occurring , we sighted the Marquesas group . 
I saw , three miles off , Martin's peak in Nouka Hiva , the largest of the group that belongs to France . 
I only saw the woody mountains against the horizon , because Captain Nemo did not wish to bring the ship to the wind . 
After leaving these charming islands protected by the French flag , from the th to the th of December the Nautilus sailed over about , miles . 
During the daytime of the th of December I was busy reading in the large drawing room . 
Ned Land and Conseil watched the luminous water through the half open panels . 
While its reservoirs were filled , it kept at a depth of , yards , a region rarely visited in the ocean , and in which large fish were seldom seen . 
I was then reading a charming book by Jean Mace , The Slaves of the Stomach , and I was learning some valuable lessons from it , when Conseil interrupted me . 
Will master come here a moment ? he said , in a curious voice . 
What is the matter , Conseil ? I want master to look . 
I rose , went , and leaned on my elbows before the panes and watched . 
In a full electric light , an enormous black mass , quite immovable , was suspended in the midst of the waters . 
I watched it attentively , seeking to find out the nature of this gigantic cetacean . 
But a sudden thought crossed my mind . 
A vessel ! I said , half aloud . 
Yes , replied the Canadian , a disabled ship that has sunk perpendicularly . 
Ned Land was right we were close to a vessel of which the tattered shrouds still hung from their chains . 
The keel seemed to be in good order , and it had been wrecked at most some few hours . 
Three stumps of masts , broken off about two feet above the bridge , showed that the vessel had had to sacrifice its masts . 
But , lying on its side , it had filled , and it was heeling over to port . 
I counted five four men , one of whom was standing at the helm , and a woman standing by the poop , holding an infant in her arms . 
I could distinguish her features , which the water had not decomposed , by the brilliant light from the Nautilus . 
In one despairing effort , she had raised her infant above her head poor little thing ! whose arms encircled its mother's neck . 
What a scene ! We were dumb our hearts beat fast before this shipwreck , taken as it were from life and photographed in its last moments . 
And I saw already , coming towards it with hungry eyes , enormous sharks , attracted by the human flesh . 
However , the Nautilus , turning , went round the submerged vessel , and in one instant I read on the stern The Florida , Sunderland . 
CHAPTER XVIII VANIKORO This terrible spectacle was the forerunner of the series of maritime catastrophes that the Nautilus was destined to meet with in its route . 
This group covers an area of square leagues , and it is formed of sixty groups of islands , among which the Gambier group is remarkable , over which France exercises sway . 
These are coral islands , slowly raised , but continuous , created by the daily work of polypi . 
Then this new island will be joined later on to the neighboring groups , and a fifth continent will stretch from New Zealand and New Caledonia , and from thence to the Marquesas . 
One day , when I was suggesting this theory to Captain Nemo , he replied coldly The earth does not want new continents , but new men . 
paragraphs have been stripped from this edition On th of December , we left to the east the bewitching group of the Societies and the graceful Tahiti , queen of the Pacific . 
I saw in the morning , some miles to the windward , the elevated summits of the island . 
These waters furnished our table with excellent fish , mackerel , bonitos , and some varieties of a sea serpent . 
This group is composed principally of nine large islands , that form a band of leagues N. N. S. to S. S. W. , between and S. lat . 
We passed tolerably near to the Island of Aurou , that at noon looked like a mass of green woods , surmounted by a peak of great height . 
That day being Christmas Day , Ned Land seemed to regret sorely the non celebration of Christmas , the family fete of which Protestants are so fond . 
I was busily tracing the route of the Nautilus on the planisphere . 
The Captain came up to me , put his finger on one spot on the chart , and said this single word . 
The effect was magical ! It was the name of the islands on which La Perouse had been lost ! I rose suddenly . 
The Nautilus has brought us to Vanikoro ? I asked . 
Yes , Professor , said the Captain . 
And I can visit the celebrated islands where the Boussole and the Astrolabe struck ? If you like , Professor . 
When shall we be there ? We are there now . 
Followed by Captain Nemo , I went up on to the platform , and greedily scanned the horizon . 
To the N. E. two volcanic islands emerged of unequal size , surrounded by a coral reef that measured forty miles in circumference . 
The earth seemed covered with verdure from the shore to the summits in the interior , that were crowned by Mount Kapogo , feet high . 
The Nautilus , having passed the outer belt of rocks by a narrow strait , found itself among breakers where the sea was from thirty to forty fathoms deep . 
Under the verdant shade of some mangroves I perceived some savages , who appeared greatly surprised at our approach . 
Only what everyone knows , Captain , I replied . 
And could you tell me what everyone knows about it ? he inquired , ironically . 
I related to him all that the last works of Dumont d'Urville had made known works from which the following is a brief account . 
La Perouse , and his second , Captain de Langle , were sent by Louis XVI , in , on a voyage of circumnavigation . 
They embarked in the corvettes Boussole and the Astrolabe , neither of which were again heard of . 
Two months after , they learned from Bowen , commander of the Albemarle , that the debris of shipwrecked vessels had been seen on the coasts of New Georgia . 
Captain Dillon , a shrewd old Pacific sailor , was the first to find unmistakable traces of the wrecks . 
On the th of May , , his vessel , the St . 
Patrick , passed close to Tikopia , one of the New Hebrides . 
There a Lascar came alongside in a canoe , sold him the handle of a sword in silver that bore the print of characters engraved on the hilt . 
Dillon guessed that he meant La Perouse , whose disappearance had troubled the whole world . 
He tried to get on to Vanikoro , where , according to the Lascar , he would find numerous debris of the wreck , but winds and tides prevented him . 
There he interested the Asiatic Society and the Indian Company in his discovery . 
A vessel , to which was given the name of the Recherche , was put at his disposal , and he set out , rd January , , accompanied by a French agent . 
There it collected numerous relics of the wreck iron utensils , anchors , pulley strops , swivel guns , an lb . 
There could be no further doubt . 
Dillon , having made all inquiries , stayed in the unlucky place till October . 
And they had learned from a whaler that some medals and a cross of St . 
Louis had been found in the hands of some savages of Louisiade and New Caledonia . 
Dumont d'Urville , commander of the Astrolabe , had then sailed , and two months after Dillon had left Vanikoro he put into Hobart Town . 
There he learned the results of Dillon's inquiries , and found that a certain James Hobbs , second lieutenant of the Union of Calcutta , after landing on an island situated S. lat . 
, had seen some iron bars and red stuffs used by the natives of these parts . 
Dumont d'Urville , much perplexed , and not knowing how to credit the reports of low class journals , decided to follow Dillon's track . 
, lay among the reefs until the th , and not until the th did he cast anchor within the barrier in the harbour of Vanou . 
On the rd , several officers went round the island and brought back some unimportant trifles . 
The natives , adopting a system of denials and evasions , refused to take them to the unlucky place . 
However , on the th , appeased by some presents , and understanding that they had no reprisals to fear , they led M. Jacquireot to the scene of the wreck . 
The large boat and the whaler belonging to the Astrolabe were sent to this place , and , not without some difficulty , their crews hauled up an anchor weighing , lbs . 
, a brass gun , some pigs of iron , and two copper swivel guns . 
Where , no one knew . 
The Bayonnaise cast her anchor before Vanikoro some months after the departure of the Astrolabe , but found no new document but stated that the savages had respected the monument to La Perouse . 
That is the substance of what I told Captain Nemo . 
So , he said , no one knows now where the third vessel perished that was constructed by the castaways on the island of Vanikoro ? No one knows . 
Captain Nemo said nothing , but signed to me to follow him into the large saloon . 
The Nautilus sank several yards below the waves , and the panels were opened . 
Then his vessels struck on the unknown reefs of Vanikoro . 
The Boussole , which went first , ran aground on the southerly coast . 
The Astrolabe went to its help , and ran aground too . 
The first vessel was destroyed almost immediately . 
The second , stranded under the wind , resisted some days . 
The natives made the castaways welcome . 
They installed themselves in the island , and constructed a smaller boat with the debris of the two large ones . 
Some sailors stayed willingly at Vanikoro the others , weak and ill , set out with La Perouse . 
They directed their course towards the Solomon Islands , and there perished , with everything , on the westerly coast of the chief island of the group , between Capes Deception and Satisfaction . 
How do you know that ? By this , that I found on the spot where was the last wreck . 
Captain Nemo showed me a tin plate box , stamped with the French arms , and corroded by the salt water . 
He opened it , and I saw a bundle of papers , yellow but still readable . 
They were the instructions of the naval minister to Commander La Perouse , annotated in the margin in Louis XVI's handwriting . 
Ah ! it is a fine death for a sailor ! said Captain Nemo , at last . 
A coral tomb makes a quiet grave and I trust that I and my comrades will find no other . 
CHAPTER XIX TORRES STRAITS During the night of the th or th of December , the Nautilus left the shores of Vanikoro with great speed . 
Her course was south westerly , and in three days she had gone over the leagues that separated it from La Perouse's group and the south east point of Papua . 
Early on the st of January , , Conseil joined me on the platform . 
We are sure to see curious things , and for the last two months we have not had time for dullness . 
The last marvel is always the most astonishing and , if we continue this progression , I do not know how it will end . 
It is my opinion that we shall never again see the like . 
I think then , with no offence to master , that a happy year would be one in which we could see everything . 
On nd January we had made , miles , or , French leagues , since our starting point in the Japan Seas . 
Before the ship's head stretched the dangerous shores of the coral sea , on the north east coast of Australia . 
Our boat lay along some miles from the redoubtable bank on which Cook's vessel was lost , th June , . 
I had wished to visit the reef , leagues long , against which the sea , always rough , broke with great violence , with a noise like thunder . 
But just then the inclined planes drew the Nautilus down to a great depth , and I could see nothing of the high coral walls . 
I had to content myself with the different specimens of fish brought up by the nets . 
These fish followed us in shoals , and furnished us with very delicate food . 
sentences missing here Two days after crossing the coral sea , th January , we sighted the Papuan coasts . 
On this occasion , Captain Nemo informed me that his intention was to get into the Indian Ocean by the Strait of Torres . 
The Nautilus , floating betwixt wind and water , went at a moderate pace . 
Her screw , like a cetacean's tail , beat the waves slowly . 
Profiting by this , I and my two companions went up on to the deserted platform . 
Before us was the steersman's cage , and I expected that Captain Nemo was there directing the course of the Nautilus . 
I had before me the excellent charts of the Straits of Torres , and I consulted them attentively . 
Round the Nautilus the sea dashed furiously . 
This is a bad sea ! remarked Ned Land . 
Detestable indeed , and one that does not suit a boat like the Nautilus . 
The Captain must be very sure of his route , for I see there pieces of coral that would do for its keel if it only touched them slightly . 
Indeed the situation was dangerous , but the Nautilus seemed to slide like magic off these rocks . 
It did not follow the routes of the Astrolabe and the Zelee exactly , for they proved fatal to Dumont d'Urville . 
It bore more northwards , coasted the Islands of Murray , and came back to the south west towards Cumberland Passage . 
It was then three in the afternoon . 
The tide began to recede , being quite full . 
The Nautilus approached the island , that I still saw , with its remarkable border of screw pines . 
He stood off it at about two miles distant . 
Suddenly a shock overthrew me . 
The Nautilus just touched a rock , and stayed immovable , laying lightly to port side . 
When I rose , I perceived Captain Nemo and his lieutenant on the platform . 
They were examining the situation of the vessel , and exchanging words in their incomprehensible dialect . 
She was situated thus Two miles , on the starboard side , appeared Gilboa , stretching from north to west like an immense arm . 
Towards the south and east some coral showed itself , left by the ebb . 
We had run aground , and in one of those seas where the tides are middling a sorry matter for the floating of the Nautilus . 
However , the vessel had not suffered , for her keel was solidly joined . 
I was reflecting thus , when the Captain , cool and calm , always master of himself , approached me . 
An accident ? I asked . 
Then he said Besides , M. Aronnax , the Nautilus is not lost it will carry you yet into the midst of the marvels of the ocean . 
Our voyage is only begun , and I do not wish to be deprived so soon of the honour of your company . 
However , Captain Nemo , I replied , without noticing the ironical turn of his phrase , the Nautilus ran aground in open sea . 
Now the tides are not strong in the Pacific and , if you cannot lighten the Nautilus , I do not see how it will be reinflated . 
To day is th January , and in five days the moon will be full . 
Now , I shall be very much astonished if that satellite does not raise these masses of water sufficiently , and render me a service that I should be indebted to her for . 
Having said this , Captain Nemo , followed by his lieutenant , redescended to the interior of the Nautilus . 
As to the vessel , it moved not , and was immovable , as if the coralline polypi had already walled it up with their in destructible cement . 
Well , sir ? said Ned Land , who came up to me after the departure of the Captain . 
Well , friend Ned , we will wait patiently for the tide on the th instant for it appears that the moon will have the goodness to put it off again . 
And this Captain is not going to cast anchor at all since the tide will suffice ? said Conseil , simply . 
The Canadian looked at Conseil , then shrugged his shoulders . 
I think , therefore , that the time has come to part company with Captain Nemo . 
Friend Ned , I do not despair of this stout Nautilus , as you do and in four days we shall know what to hold to on the Pacific tides . 
In this , friend Ned is right , said Conseil , and I agree with him . 
Will master risk it ? asked Conseil , and we shall know how to rely upon the Captain's amiability . 
Better to be a prisoner on board the Nautilus than to fall into the hands of the natives . 
At eight o'clock , armed with guns and hatchets , we got off the Nautilus . 
The sea was pretty calm a slight breeze blew on land . 
Conseil and I rowing , we sped along quickly , and Ned steered in the straight passage that the breakers left between them . 
The boat was well handled , and moved rapidly . 
Ned Land could not restrain his joy . 
He was like a prisoner that had escaped from prison , and knew not that it was necessary to re enter it . 
Meat ! We are going to eat some meat and what meat ! he replied . 
Real game ! no , bread , indeed . 
I do not say that fish is not good we must not abuse it but a piece of fresh venison , grilled on live coals , will agreeably vary our ordinary course . 
Glutton ! said Conseil , he makes my mouth water . 
It remains to be seen , I said , if these forests are full of game , and if the game is not such as will hunt the hunter himself . 
Friend Ned is uneasy about it , said Conseil . 
Whatever it may be , continued Ned Land , every animal with four paws without feathers , or with two paws without feathers , will be saluted by my first shot . 
Very well ! Master Land's imprudences are beginning . 
Never fear , M. Aronnax , replied the Canadian I do not want twenty five minutes to offer you a dish , of my sort . 
At half past eight the Nautilus boat ran softly aground on a heavy sand , after having happily passed the coral reef that surrounds the Island of Gilboa . 
CHAPTER XX A FEW DAYS ON LAND I was much impressed on touching land . 
Ned Land tried the soil with his feet , as if to take possession of it . 
However , it was only two months before that we had become , according to Captain Nemo , passengers on board the Nautilus , but , in reality , prisoners of its commander . 
In a few minutes we were within musket shot of the coast . 
The whole horizon was hidden behind a beautiful curtain of forests . 
Enormous trees , the trunks of which attained a height of feet , were tied to each other by garlands of bindweed , real natural hammocks , which a light breeze rocked . 
They were mimosas , figs , hibisci , and palm trees , mingled together in profusion and under the shelter of their verdant vault grew orchids , leguminous plants , and ferns . 
But , without noticing all these beautiful specimens of Papuan flora , the Canadian abandoned the agreeable for the useful . 
Excellent ! said Ned Land . 
And I do not think , said the Canadian , that he would object to our introducing a cargo of coco nuts on board . 
I do not think he would , but he would not taste them . 
So much the worse for him , said Conseil . 
And so much the better for us , replied Ned Land . 
There will be more for us . 
One word only , Master Land , I said to the harpooner , who was beginning to ravage another coco nut tree . 
Coco nuts are good things , but before filling the canoe with them it would be wise to reconnoitre and see if the island does not produce some substance not less useful . 
Fresh vegetables would be welcome on board the Nautilus . 
Conseil , we must not despair , said the Canadian . 
Let us continue , I returned , and lie in wait . 
Although the island seems uninhabited , it might still contain some individuals that would be less hard than we on the nature of game . 
Ho ! ho ! said Ned Land , moving his jaws significantly . 
Well , Ned ! said Conseil . 
My word ! returned the Canadian , I begin to understand the charms of anthropophagy . 
Ned ! Ned ! what are you saying ? You , a man eater ? I should not feel safe with you , especially as I share your cabin . 
I might perhaps wake one day to find myself half devoured . 
Friend Conseil , I like you much , but not enough to eat you unnecessarily . 
I would not trust you , replied Conseil . 
We must absolutely bring down some game to satisfy this cannibal , or else one of these fine mornings , master will find only pieces of his servant to serve him . 
While we were talking thus , we were penetrating the sombre arches of the forest , and for two hours we surveyed it in all directions . 
Chance rewarded our search for eatable vegetables , and one of the most useful products of the tropical zones furnished us with precious food that we missed on board . 
Ned Land knew these fruits well . 
He had already eaten many during his numerous voyages , and he knew how to prepare the eatable substance . 
Moreover , the sight of them excited him , and he could contain himself no longer . 
Master , he said , I shall die if I do not taste a little of this bread fruit pie . 
Taste it , friend Ned taste it as you want . 
We are here to make experiments make them . 
It won't take long , said the Canadian . 
And , provided with a lentil , he lighted a fire of dead wood that crackled joyously . 
During this time , Conseil and I chose the best fruits of the bread fruit . 
Some had not then attained a sufficient degree of maturity and their thick skin covered a white but rather fibrous pulp . 
Others , the greater number yellow and gelatinous , waited only to be picked . 
These fruits enclosed no kernel . 
More so when one has been deprived of it so long . 
It is not even bread , added he , but a delicate pastry . 
You have eaten none , master ? No , Ned . 
Very well , prepare yourself for a juicy thing . 
If you do not come for more , I am no longer the king of harpooners . 
After some minutes , the part of the fruits that was exposed to the fire was completely roasted . 
The interior looked like a white pasty , a sort of soft crumb , the flavour of which was like that of an artichoke . 
It must be confessed this bread was excellent , and I ate of it with great relish . 
What time is it now ? asked the Canadian . 
Two o'clock at least , replied Conseil . 
How time flies on firm ground ! sighed Ned Land . 
Let us be off , replied Conseil . 
We were loaded when we reached the boat . 
But Ned Land did not find his provisions sufficient . 
Fate , however , favoured us . 
Just as we were pushing off , he perceived several trees , from twenty five to thirty feet high , a species of palm tree . 
At last , at five o'clock in the evening , loaded with our riches , we quitted the shore , and half an hour after we hailed the Nautilus . 
No one appeared on our arrival . 
The enormous iron plated cylinder seemed deserted . 
The provisions embarked , I descended to my chamber , and after supper slept soundly . 
The next day , th January , nothing new on board . 
Not a sound inside , not a sign of life . 
The boat rested along the edge , in the same place in which we had left it . 
We resolved to return to the island . 
Ned Land hoped to be more fortunate than on the day before with regard to the hunt , and wished to visit another part of the forest . 
At dawn we set off . 
The boat , carried on by the waves that flowed to shore , reached the island in a few minutes . 
We landed , and , thinking that it was better to give in to the Canadian , we followed Ned Land , whose long limbs threatened to distance us . 
He wound up the coast towards the west then , fording some torrents , he gained the high plain that was bordered with admirable forests . 
Some kingfishers were rambling along the water courses , but they would not let themselves be approached . 
After crossing a rather large prairie , we arrived at the skirts of a little wood that was enlivened by the songs and flight of a large number of birds . 
There are only birds , said Conseil . 
But they are eatable , replied the harpooner . 
I do not agree with you , friend Ned , for I see only parrots there . 
Friend Conseil , said Ned , gravely , the parrot is like pheasant to those who have nothing else . 
And , I added , this bird , suitably prepared , is worth knife and fork . 
Indeed , under the thick foliage of this wood , a world of parrots were flying from branch to branch , only needing a careful education to speak the human language . 
However , a bird peculiar to these lands , and which has never passed the limits of the Arrow and Papuan islands , was wanting in this collection . 
But fortune reserved it for me before long . 
After passing through a moderately thick copse , we found a plain obstructed with bushes . 
I saw then those magnificent birds , the disposition of whose long feathers obliges them to fly against the wind . 
Their undulating flight , graceful aerial curves , and the shading of their colours , attracted and charmed one's looks . 
I had no trouble in recognising them . 
Birds of paradise ! I exclaimed . 
The Malays , who carry on a great trade in these birds with the Chinese , have several means that we could not employ for taking them . 
Sometimes they put snares on the top of high trees that the birds of paradise prefer to frequent . 
Sometimes they catch them with a viscous birdlime that paralyses their movements . 
They even go so far as to poison the fountains that the birds generally drink from . 
But we were obliged to fire at them during flight , which gave us few chances to bring them down and , indeed , we vainly exhausted one half our ammunition . 
About eleven o'clock in the morning , the first range of mountains that form the centre of the island was traversed , and we had killed nothing . 
The hunters had relied on the products of the chase , and they were wrong . 
Happily Conseil , to his great surprise , made a double shot and secured breakfast . 
He brought down a white pigeon and a wood pigeon , which , cleverly plucked and suspended from a skewer , was roasted before a red fire of dead wood . 
While these interesting birds were cooking , Ned prepared the fruit of the bread tree . 
Then the wood pigeons were devoured to the bones , and declared excellent . 
The nutmeg , with which they are in the habit of stuffing their crops , flavours their flesh and renders it delicious eating . 
Now , Ned , what do you miss now ? Some four footed game , M. Aronnax . 
All these pigeons are only side dishes and trifles and until I have killed an animal with cutlets I shall not be content . 
Nor I , Ned , if I do not catch a bird of paradise . 
Let us continue hunting , replied Conseil . 
Let us go towards the sea . 
We have arrived at the first declivities of the mountains , and I think we had better regain the region of forests . 
That was sensible advice , and was followed out . 
After walking for one hour we had attained a forest of sago trees . 
Some inoffensive serpents glided away from us . 
Ah ! bravo , Conseil ! Master is very good . 
No , my boy you have made an excellent stroke . 
Take one of these living birds , and carry it in your hand . 
If master will examine it , he will see that I have not deserved great merit . 
Why , Conseil ? Because this bird is as drunk as a quail . 
Drunk ! Yes , sir drunk with the nutmegs that it devoured under the nutmeg tree , under which I found it . 
The bird , drunk with the juice , was quite powerless . 
It could not fly it could hardly walk . 
This bird belonged to the most beautiful of the eight species that are found in Papua and in the neighbouring islands . 
It was the large emerald bird , the most rare kind . 
It measured three feet in length . 
Its head was comparatively small , its eyes placed near the opening of the beak , and also small . 
But if my wishes were satisfied by the possession of the bird of paradise , the Canadian's were not yet . 
Happily , about two o'clock , Ned Land brought down a magnificent hog from the brood of those the natives call bari outang . 
The animal came in time for us to procure real quadruped meat , and he was well received . 
Ned Land was very proud of his shot . 
The hog , hit by the electric ball , fell stone dead . 
The Canadian skinned and cleaned it properly , after having taken half a dozen cutlets , destined to furnish us with a grilled repast in the evening . 
Then the hunt was resumed , which was still more marked by Ned and Conseil's exploits . 
Indeed , the two friends , beating the bushes , roused a herd of kangaroos that fled and bounded along on their elastic paws . 
But these animals did not take to flight so rapidly but what the electric capsule could stop their course . 
But he contented himself with a single dozen of these interesting marsupians . 
We were very satisfied with the results of the hunt . 
Happy Ned proposed to return to this enchanting island the next day , for he wished to depopulate it of all the eatable quadrupeds . 
But he had reckoned without his host . 
At six o'clock in the evening we had regained the shore our boat was moored to the usual place . 
The Nautilus , like a long rock , emerged from the waves two miles from the beach . 
Ned Land , without waiting , occupied himself about the important dinner business . 
He understood all about cooking well . 
The bari outang , grilled on the coals , soon scented the air with a delicious odour . 
Indeed , the dinner was excellent . 
Two wood pigeons completed this extraordinary menu . 
The sago pasty , the artocarpus bread , some mangoes , half a dozen pineapples , and the liquor fermented from some coco nuts , overjoyed us . 
I even think that my worthy companions' ideas had not all the plainness desirable . 
Suppose we do not return to the Nautilus this evening ? said Conseil . 
Suppose we never return ? added Ned Land . 
Just then a stone fell at our feet and cut short the harpooner's proposition . 
Stones do not fall from the sky , remarked Conseil , or they would merit the name aerolites . 
A second stone , carefully aimed , that made a savoury pigeon's leg fall from Conseil's hand , gave still more weight to his observation . 
We all three arose , shouldered our guns , and were ready to reply to any attack . 
Are they apes ? cried Ned Land . 
Very nearly they are savages . 
To the boat ! I said , hurrying to the sea . 
Our boat was moored about sixty feet from us . 
The savages approached us , not running , but making hostile demonstrations . 
Stones and arrows fell thickly . 
Ned Land had not wished to leave his provisions and , in spite of his imminent danger , his pig on one side and kangaroos on the other , he went tolerably fast . 
In two minutes we were on the shore . 
To load the boat with provisions and arms , to push it out to sea , and ship the oars , was the work of an instant . 
We had not gone two cable lengths , when a hundred savages , howling and gesticulating , entered the water up to their waists . 
I watched to see if their apparition would attract some men from the Nautilus on to the platform . 
The enormous machine , lying off , was absolutely deserted . 
Twenty minutes later we were on board . 
After making the boat fast , we entered into the interior of the Nautilus . 
I descended to the drawing room , from whence I heard some chords . 
Captain Nemo was there , bending over his organ , and plunged in a musical ecstasy . 
Captain ! He did not hear me . 
Captain ! I said , touching his hand . 
Savages ! he echoed , ironically . 
The Captain's fingers were then running over the keys of the instrument , and I remarked that he touched only the black keys , which gave his melodies an essentially Scotch character . 
Soon he had forgotten my presence , and had plunged into a reverie that I did not disturb . 
I went up again on to the platform night had already fallen for , in this low latitude , the sun sets rapidly and without twilight . 
I could only see the island indistinctly but the numerous fires , lighted on the beach , showed that the natives did not think of leaving it . 
My remembrances went to France in the train of those zodiacal stars that would shine in some hours' time . 
The moon shone in the midst of the constellations of the zenith . 
The night slipped away without any mischance , the islanders frightened no doubt at the sight of a monster aground in the bay . 
The panels were open , and would have offered an easy access to the interior of the Nautilus . 
At six o'clock in the morning of the th January I went up on to the platform . 
The island soon showed itself through the dissipating fogs , first the shore , then the summits . 
I distinguished them easily they were true Papuans , with athletic figures , men of good race , large high foreheads , large , but not broad and flat , and white teeth . 
Their woolly hair , with a reddish tinge , showed off on their black shining bodies like those of the Nubians . 
From the lobes of their ears , cut and distended , hung chaplets of bones . 
Most of these savages were naked . 
Amongst them , I remarked some women , dressed from the hips to knees in quite a crinoline of herbs , that sustained a vegetable waistband . 
One of these chiefs , rather near to the Nautilus , examined it attentively . 
He was , perhaps , a mado of high rank , for he was draped in a mat of banana leaves , notched round the edges , and set off with brilliant colours . 
I could easily have knocked down this native , who was within a short length but I thought that it was better to wait for real hostile demonstrations . 
Between Europeans and savages , it is proper for the Europeans to parry sharply , not to attack . 
So that , on that day , the boat did not push off , to the great displeasure of Master Land , who could not complete his provisions . 
This adroit Canadian employed his time in preparing the viands and meat that he had brought off the island . 
Probably they came from the neighbouring islands , or very likely from Papua . 
However , I had not seen a single native canoe . 
Having nothing better to do , I thought of dragging these beautiful limpid waters , under which I saw a profusion of shells , zoophytes , and marine plants . 
Moreover , it was the last day that the Nautilus would pass in these parts , if it float in open sea the next day , according to Captain Nemo's promise . 
I therefore called Conseil , who brought me a little light drag , very like those for the oyster fishery . 
Now to work ! For two hours we fished unceasingly , but without bringing up any rarities . 
The drag was filled with midas ears , harps , melames , and particularly the most beautiful hammers I have ever seen . 
We also brought up some sea slugs , pearl oysters , and a dozen little turtles that were reserved for the pantry on board . 
But just when I expected it least , I put my hand on a wonder , I might say a natural deformity , very rarely met with . 
What is the matter , sir ? he asked in surprise . 
Has master been bitten ? No , my boy but I would willingly have given a finger for my discovery . 
What discovery ? This shell , I said , holding up the object of my triumph . 
It is simply an olive porphyry . 
genus species missing Yes , Conseil but , instead of being rolled from right to left , this olive turns from left to right . 
Is it possible ? Yes , my boy it is a left shell . 
Shells are all right handed , with rare exceptions and , when by chance their spiral is left , amateurs are ready to pay their weight in gold . 
I uttered a cry of despair ! Conseil took up his gun , and aimed at a savage who was poising his sling at ten yards from him . 
I would have stopped him , but his blow took effect and broke the bracelet of amulets which encircled the arm of the savage . 
However , the situation had changed some minutes before , and we had not perceived . 
A score of canoes surrounded the Nautilus . 
They were managed by skilful , half naked paddlers , and I watched their advance with some uneasiness . 
It was evident that these Papuans had already had dealings with the Europeans and knew their ships . 
However , seeing it motionless , by degrees they took courage , and sought to familiarise themselves with it . 
Now this familiarity was precisely what it was necessary to avoid . 
Our arms , which were noiseless , could only produce a moderate effect on the savages , who have little respect for aught but blustering things . 
The thunderbolt without the reverberations of thunder would frighten man but little , though the danger lies in the lightning , not in the noise . 
At this moment the canoes approached the Nautilus , and a shower of arrows alighted on her . 
I went down to the saloon , but found no one there . 
I ventured to knock at the door that opened into the Captain's room . 
Come in , was the answer . 
I entered , and found Captain Nemo deep in algebraical calculations of x and other quantities . 
I am disturbing you , said I , for courtesy's sake . 
Ah ! , said Captain Nemo quietly , they are come with their canoes ? Yes , sir . 
Well , sir , we must close the hatches . 
Exactly , and I came to say to you Nothing can be more simple , said Captain Nemo . 
And , pressing an electric button , he transmitted an order to the ship's crew . 
It is all done , sir , said he , after some moments . 
The pinnace is ready , and the hatches are closed . 
What is that , sir ? It is that to morrow , at about this hour , we must open the hatches to renew the air of the Nautilus . 
Now , if , at this moment , the Papuans should occupy the platform , I do not see how you could prevent them from entering . 
Then , sir , you suppose that they will board us ? I am certain of it . 
Well , sir , let them come . 
I see no reason for hindering them . 
After all , these Papuans are poor creatures , and I am unwilling that my visit to the island should cost the life of a single one of these wretches . 
Upon that I was going away But Captain Nemo detained me , and asked me to sit down by him . 
He questioned me with interest about our excursions on shore , and our hunting and seemed not to understand the craving for meat that possessed the Canadian . 
Then the conversation turned on various subjects , and , without being more communicative , Captain Nemo showed himself more amiable . 
Amongst other things , we happened to speak of the situation of the Nautilus , run aground in exactly the same spot in this strait where Dumont d'Urville was nearly lost . 
Apropos of this This D'Urville was one of your great sailors , said the Captain to me , one of your most intelligent navigators . 
He is the Captain Cook of you Frenchmen . 
That which your D'Urville has done on the surface of the seas , said Captain Nemo , that have I done under them , and more easily , more completely than he . 
To morrow , added the Captain , rising , to morrow , at twenty minutes to three p . 
, the Nautilus shall float , and leave the Strait of Torres uninjured . 
Having curtly pronounced these words , Captain Nemo bowed slightly . 
This was to dismiss me , and I went back to my room . 
There I found Conseil , who wished to know the result of my interview with the Captain . 
My boy , said I , when I feigned to believe that his Nautilus was threatened by the natives of Papua , the Captain answered me very sarcastically . 
I have but one thing to say to you Have confidence in him , and go to sleep in peace . 
Have you no need of my services , sir ? No , my friend . 
What is Ned Land doing ? If you will excuse me , sir , answered Conseil , friend Ned is busy making a kangaroo pie which will be a marvel . 
I remained alone and went to bed , but slept indifferently . 
I heard the noise of the savages , who stamped on the platform , uttering deafening cries . 
The night passed thus , without disturbing the ordinary repose of the crew . 
The presence of these cannibals affected them no more than the soldiers of a masked battery care for the ants that crawl over its front . 
At six in the morning I rose . 
The hatches had not been opened . 
I worked in my room till noon , without having seen Captain Nemo , even for an instant . 
On board no preparations for departure were visible . 
I waited still some time , then went into the large saloon . 
The clock marked half past two . 
In ten minutes it would be high tide and , if Captain Nemo had not made a rash promise , the Nautilus would be immediately detached . 
If not , many months would pass ere she could leave her bed of coral . 
However , some warning vibrations began to be felt in the vessel . 
I heard the keel grating against the rough calcareous bottom of the coral reef . 
At five and twenty minutes to three , Captain Nemo appeared in the saloon . 
We are going to start , said he . 
Ah ! replied I. I have given the order to open the hatches . 
And the Papuans ? The Papuans ? answered Captain Nemo , slightly shrugging his shoulders . 
Will they not come inside the Nautilus ? How ? Only by leaping over the hatches you have opened . 
M. Aronnax , quietly answered Captain Nemo , they will not enter the hatches of the Nautilus in that way , even if they were open . 
I looked at the Captain . 
You do not understand ? said he . 
Well , come and you will see . 
I directed my steps towards the central staircase . 
There Ned Land and Conseil were slyly watching some of the ship's crew , who were opening the hatches , while cries of rage and fearful vociferations resounded outside . 
The port lids were pulled down outside . 
Ten of his companions followed him . 
They met with the same fate . 
Ned Land , carried away by his violent instincts , rushed on to the staircase . 
But the moment he seized the rail with both hands , he , in his turn , was overthrown . 
I am struck by a thunderbolt , cried he , with an oath . 
It was no rail but a metallic cable charged with electricity from the deck communicating with the platform . 
Whoever touched it felt a powerful shock and this shock would have been mortal if Captain Nemo had discharged into the conductor the whole force of the current . 
It might truly be said that between his assailants and himself he had stretched a network of electricity which none could pass with impunity . 
Meanwhile , the exasperated Papuans had beaten a retreat paralysed with terror . 
As for us , half laughing , we consoled and rubbed the unfortunate Ned Land , who swore like one possessed . 
But at this moment the Nautilus , raised by the last waves of the tide , quitted her coral bed exactly at the fortieth minute fixed by the Captain . 
Her screw swept the waters slowly and majestically . 
Her speed increased gradually , and , sailing on the surface of the ocean , she quitted safe and sound the dangerous passes of the Straits of Torres . 
The rapidity of her screw was such that I could neither follow nor count its revolutions . 
Our course was directed to the west , and on the th of January we doubled Cape Wessel , situation in long . 
, which forms the east point of the Gulf of Carpentaria . 
The reefs were still numerous , but more equalised , and marked on the chart with extreme precision . 
The Nautilus easily avoided the breakers of Money to port and the Victoria reefs to starboard , placed at long . 
and on the th parallel , which we strictly followed . 
On the th of January , Captain Nemo arrived in the Sea of Timor , and recognised the island of that name in long . 
From this point the direction of the Nautilus inclined towards the south west . 
Her head was set for the Indian Ocean . 
The speed of the Nautilus was considerably abated , and with irregular course she sometimes swam in the bosom of the waters , sometimes floated on their surface . 
During this period of the voyage , Captain Nemo made some interesting experiments on the varied temperature of the sea , in different beds . 
Results so obtained could not be correctly calculated . 
On the th of January , the Nautilus seemed becalmed only a few yards beneath the surface of the waves . 
Her electric apparatus remained inactive and her motionless screw left her to drift at the mercy of the currents . 
I supposed that the crew was occupied with interior repairs , rendered necessary by the violence of the mechanical movements of the machine . 
My companions and I then witnessed a curious spectacle . 
The hatches of the saloon were open , and , as the beacon light of the Nautilus was not in action , a dim obscurity reigned in the midst of the waters . 
I thought at first that the beacon had been lighted , and was casting its electric radiance into the liquid mass . 
I was mistaken , and after a rapid survey perceived my error . 
The Nautilus floated in the midst of a phosphorescent bed which , in this obscurity , became quite dazzling . 
It was produced by myriads of luminous animalculae , whose brilliancy was increased as they glided over the metallic hull of the vessel . 
No this was not the calm irradiation of our ordinary lightning . 
During several hours the Nautilus floated in these brilliant waves , and our admiration increased as we watched the marine monsters disporting themselves like salamanders . 
, and some swordfish ten feet long , those prophetic heralds of the hurricane whose formidable sword would now and then strike the glass of the saloon . 
Then appeared the smaller fish , the balista , the leaping mackerel , wolf thorn tails , and a hundred others which striped the luminous atmosphere as they swam . 
This dazzling spectacle was enchanting ! Perhaps some atmospheric condition increased the intensity of this phenomenon . 
Perhaps some storm agitated the surface of the waves . 
But at this depth of some yards , the Nautilus was unmoved by its fury and reposed peacefully in still water . 
So we progressed , incessantly charmed by some new marvel . 
The days passed rapidly away , and I took no account of them . 
Ned , according to habit , tried to vary the diet on board . 
Like snails , we were fixed to our shells , and I declare it is easy to lead a snail's life . 
Thus this life seemed easy and natural , and we thought no longer of the life we led on land but something happened to recall us to the strangeness of our situation . 
On the th of January , the Nautilus was in long . 
The weather was threatening , the sea rough and rolling . 
There was a strong east wind . 
The barometer , which had been going down for some days , foreboded a coming storm . 
I went up on to the platform just as the second lieutenant was taking the measure of the horary angles , and waited , according to habit till the daily phrase was said . 
But on this day it was exchanged for another phrase not less incomprehensible . 
Almost directly , I saw Captain Nemo appear with a glass , looking towards the horizon . 
For some minutes he was immovable , without taking his eye off the point of observation . 
Then he lowered his glass and exchanged a few words with his lieutenant . 
The latter seemed to be a victim to some emotion that he tried in vain to repress . 
Captain Nemo , having more command over himself , was cool . 
He seemed , too , to be making some objections to which the lieutenant replied by formal assurances . 
At least I concluded so by the difference of their tones and gestures . 
For myself , I had looked carefully in the direction indicated without seeing anything . 
The sky and water were lost in the clear line of the horizon . 
However , Captain Nemo walked from one end of the platform to the other , without looking at me , perhaps without seeing me . 
His step was firm , but less regular than usual . 
He stopped sometimes , crossed his arms , and observed the sea . 
What could he be looking for on that immense expanse ? The Nautilus was then some hundreds of miles from the nearest coast . 
The lieutenant had taken up the glass and examined the horizon steadfastly , going and coming , stamping his foot and showing more nervous agitation than his superior officer . 
Just then the lieutenant drew the Captain's attention again . 
The latter stopped walking and directed his glass towards the place indicated . 
I felt very much puzzled , and descended to the drawing room , and took out an excellent telescope that I generally used . 
Then , leaning on the cage of the watch light that jutted out from the front of the platform , set myself to look over all the line of the sky and sea . 
But my eye was no sooner applied to the glass than it was quickly snatched out of my hands . 
Captain Nemo was before me , but I did not know him . 
His eyes flashed sullenly his teeth were set his stiff body , clenched fists , and head shrunk between his shoulders , betrayed the violent agitation that pervaded his whole frame . 
My glass , fallen from his hands , had rolled at his feet . 
At last Captain Nemo recovered himself . 
He addressed some words in a foreign language to his lieutenant , then turned to me . 
M. Aronnax , he said , in rather an imperious tone , I require you to keep one of the conditions that bind you to me . 
What is it , Captain ? You must be confined , with your companions , until I think fit to release you . 
You are the master , I replied , looking steadily at him . 
But may I ask you one question ? None , sir . 
There was no resisting this imperious command , it would have been useless . 
I went down to the cabin occupied by Ned Land and Conseil , and told them the Captain's determination . 
You may judge how this communication was received by the Canadian . 
But there was not time for altercation . 
Four of the crew waited at the door , and conducted us to that cell where we had passed our first night on board the Nautilus . 
Ned Land would have remonstrated , but the door was shut upon him . 
Will master tell me what this means ? asked Conseil . 
I told my companions what had passed . 
They were as much astonished as I , and equally at a loss how to account for it . 
Meanwhile , I was absorbed in my own reflections , and could think of nothing but the strange fear depicted in the Captain's countenance . 
I was utterly at a loss to account for it , when my cogitations were disturbed by these words from Ned Land Hallo ! breakfast is ready . 
And indeed the table was laid . 
Evidently Captain Nemo had given this order at the same time that he had hastened the speed of the Nautilus . 
Will master permit me to make a recommendation ? asked Conseil . 
Well , it is that master breakfasts . 
It is prudent , for we do not know what may happen . 
You are right , Conseil . 
Unfortunately , said Ned Land , they have only given us the ship's fare . 
Friend Ned , asked Conseil , what would you have said if the breakfast had been entirely forgotten ? This argument cut short the harpooner's recriminations . 
We sat down to table . 
The meal was eaten in silence . 
Just then the luminous globe that lighted the cell went out , and left us in total darkness . 
Ned Land was soon asleep , and what astonished me was that Conseil went off into a heavy slumber . 
I was thinking what could have caused his irresistible drowsiness , when I felt my brain becoming stupefied . 
In spite of my efforts to keep my eyes open , they would close . 
A painful suspicion seized me . 
Evidently soporific substances had been mixed with the food we had just taken . 
Imprisonment was not enough to conceal Captain Nemo's projects from us , sleep was more necessary . 
I then heard the panels shut . 
The undulations of the sea , which caused a slight rolling motion , ceased . 
Had the Nautilus quitted the surface of the ocean ? Had it gone back to the motionless bed of water ? I tried to resist sleep . 
I felt a mortal cold freeze my stiffened and half paralysed limbs . 
My eye lids , like leaden caps , fell over my eyes . 
I could not raise them a morbid sleep , full of hallucinations , bereft me of my being . 
Then the visions disappeared , and left me in complete insensibility . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE CORAL KINGDOM The next day I woke with my head singularly clear . 
To my great surprise , I was in my own room . 
I then thought of quitting my room . 
Was I free again or a prisoner ? Quite free . 
I opened the door , went to the half deck , went up the central stairs . 
The panels , shut the evening before , were open . 
I went on to the platform . 
Ned Land and Conseil waited there for me . 
I questioned them they knew nothing . 
Lost in a heavy sleep in which they had been totally unconscious , they had been astonished at finding themselves in their cabin . 
As for the Nautilus , it seemed quiet and mysterious as ever . 
It floated on the surface of the waves at a moderate pace . 
Nothing seemed changed on board . 
The second lieutenant then came on to the platform , and gave the usual order below . 
As for Captain Nemo , he did not appear . 
Of the people on board , I only saw the impassive steward , who served me with his usual dumb regularity . 
About two o'clock , I was in the drawing room , busied in arranging my notes , when the Captain opened the door and appeared . 
He made a slight inclination in return , without speaking . 
I resumed my work , hoping that he would perhaps give me some explanation of the events of the preceding night . 
He seemed fatigued his heavy eyes had not been refreshed by sleep his face looked very sorrowful . 
Are you a doctor ? he repeated . 
Several of your colleagues have studied medicine . 
Well , said I , I am a doctor and resident surgeon to the hospital . 
I practised several years before entering the museum . 
My answer had evidently satisfied the Captain . 
But , not knowing what he would say next , I waited for other questions , reserving my answers according to circumstances . 
M. Aronnax , will you consent to prescribe for one of my men ? be asked . 
Is he ill ? Yes . 
I am ready to follow you . 
I own my heart beat , I do not know why . 
I saw certain connection between the illness of one of the crew and the events of the day before and this mystery interested me at least as much as the sick man . 
Captain Nemo conducted me to the poop of the Nautilus , and took me into a cabin situated near the sailors' quarters . 
There , on a bed , lay a man about forty years of age , with a resolute expression of countenance , a true type of an Anglo Saxon . 
He was not only ill , he was wounded . 
His head , swathed in bandages covered with blood , lay on a pillow . 
I undid the bandages , and the wounded man looked at me with his large eyes and gave no sign of pain as I did it . 
It was a horrible wound . 
The skull , shattered by some deadly weapon , left the brain exposed , which was much injured . 
Clots of blood had formed in the bruised and broken mass , in colour like the dregs of wine . 
There was both contusion and suffusion of the brain . 
His breathing was slow , and some spasmodic movements of the muscles agitated his face . 
The extremities of the body were growing cold already , and I saw death must inevitably ensue . 
After dressing the unfortunate man's wounds , I readjusted the bandages on his head , and turned to Captain Nemo . 
What caused this wound ? I asked . 
What does it signify ? he replied , evasively . 
A shock has broken one of the levers of the engine , which struck myself . 
But your opinion as to his state ? I hesitated before giving it . 
You may speak , said the Captain . 
This man does not understand French . 
I gave a last look at the wounded man . 
He will be dead in two hours . 
Can nothing save him ? Nothing . 
Captain Nemo's hand contracted , and some tears glistened in his eyes , which I thought incapable of shedding any . 
For some moments I still watched the dying man , whose life ebbed slowly . 
His pallor increased under the electric light that was shed over his death bed . 
I looked at his intelligent forehead , furrowed with premature wrinkles , produced probably by misfortune and sorrow . 
I tried to learn the secret of his life from the last words that escaped his lips . 
You can go now , M. Aronnax , said the Captain . 
I left him in the dying man's cabin , and returned to my room much affected by this scene . 
Were they the prayers of the dead , murmured in that language that I could not understand ? The next morning I went on to the bridge . 
Captain Nemo was there before me . 
As soon as he perceived me he came to me . 
Professor , will it be convenient to you to make a submarine excursion to day ? With my companions ? I asked . 
We obey your orders , Captain . 
Will you be so good then as to put on your cork jackets ? It was not a question of dead or dying . 
I rejoined Ned Land and Conseil , and told them of Captain Nemo's proposition . 
Conseil hastened to accept it , and this time the Canadian seemed quite willing to follow our example . 
It was eight o'clock in the morning . 
At half past eight we were equipped for this new excursion , and provided with two contrivances for light and breathing . 
A slight declivity ended in an uneven bottom , at fifteen fathoms depth . 
This bottom differed entirely from the one I had visited on my first excursion under the waters of the Pacific Ocean . 
Here , there was no fine sand , no submarine prairies , no sea forest . 
I immediately recognised that marvellous region in which , on that day , the Captain did the honours to us . 
It was the coral kingdom . 
The light produced a thousand charming varieties , playing in the midst of the branches that were so vividly coloured . 
I seemed to see the membraneous and cylindrical tubes tremble beneath the undulation of the waters . 
But if my hand approached these living flowers , these animated , sensitive plants , the whole colony took alarm . 
The white petals re entered their red cases , the flowers faded as I looked , and the bush changed into a block of stony knobs . 
Chance had thrown me just by the most precious specimens of the zoophyte . 
This coral was more valuable than that found in the Mediterranean , on the coasts of France , Italy and Barbary . 
Its tints justified the poetical names of Flower of Blood , and Froth of Blood , that trade has given to its most beautiful productions . 
Coral is sold for L per ounce and in this place the watery beds would make the fortunes of a company of coral divers . 
This precious matter , often confused with other polypi , formed then the inextricable plots called macciota , and on which I noticed several beautiful specimens of pink coral . 
opening sentence missing Real petrified thickets , long joints of fantastic architecture , were disclosed before us . 
Captain Nemo placed himself under a dark gallery , where by a slight declivity we reached a depth of a hundred yards . 
The light from our lamps produced sometimes magical effects , following the rough outlines of the natural arches and pendants disposed like lustres , that were tipped with points of fire . 
At last , after walking two hours , we had attained a depth of about three hundred yards , that is to say , the extreme limit on which coral begins to form . 
But there was no isolated bush , nor modest brushwood , at the bottom of lofty trees . 
It was an immense forest of large mineral vegetations , enormous petrified trees , united by garlands of elegant sea bindweed , all adorned with clouds and reflections . 
We passed freely under their high branches , lost in the shade of the waves . 
I and my companions halted , and , turning round , I saw his men were forming a semi circle round their chief . 
Watching attentively , I observed that four of them carried on their shoulders an object of an oblong shape . 
We occupied , in this place , the centre of a vast glade surrounded by the lofty foliage of the submarine forest . 
Our lamps threw over this place a sort of clear twilight that singularly elongated the shadows on the ground . 
At the end of the glade the darkness increased , and was only relieved by little sparks reflected by the points of coral . 
Ned Land and Conseil were near me . 
We watched , and I thought I was going to witness a strange scene . 
On observing the ground , I saw that it was raised in certain places by slight excrescences encrusted with limy deposits , and disposed with a regularity that betrayed the hand of man . 
Upon a sign from Captain Nemo one of the men advanced and at some feet from the cross he began to dig a hole with a pickaxe that he took from his belt . 
The hole was soon large and deep enough to receive the body . 
Then the bearers approached the body , enveloped in a tissue of white linen , was lowered into the damp grave . 
Captain Nemo , with his arms crossed on his breast , and all the friends of him who had loved them , knelt in prayer . 
The grave was then filled in with the rubbish taken from the ground , which formed a slight mound . 
When this was done , Captain Nemo and his men rose then , approaching the grave , they knelt again , and all extended their hands in sign of a last adieu . 
Then the funeral procession returned to the Nautilus , passing under the arches of the forest , in the midst of thickets , along the coral bushes , and still on the ascent . 
At last the light of the ship appeared , and its luminous track guided us to the Nautilus . 
At one o'clock we had returned . 
As soon as I had changed my clothes I went up on to the platform , and , a prey to conflicting emotions , I sat down near the binnacle . 
I rose and said to him So , as I said he would , this man died in the night ? Yes , M. Aronnax . 
And he rests now , near his companions , in the coral cemetery ? Yes , forgotten by all else , but not by us . 
We dug the grave , and the polypi undertake to seal our dead for eternity . 
And , burying his face quickly in his hands , he tried in vain to suppress a sob . 
Then he added Our peaceful cemetery is there , some hundred feet below the surface of the waves . 
Your dead sleep quietly , at least , Captain , out of the reach of sharks . 
Yes , sir , of sharks and men , gravely replied the Captain . 
PART TWO CHAPTER I THE INDIAN OCEAN We now come to the second part of our journey under the sea . 
The first ended with the moving scene in the coral cemetery which left such a deep impression on my mind . 
Thus , in the midst of this great sea , Captain Nemo's life was passing , even to his grave , which he had prepared in one of its deepest abysses . 
There , not one of the ocean's monsters could trouble the last sleep of the crew of the Nautilus , of those friends riveted to each other in death as in life . 
Nor any man , either , had added the Captain . 
Still the same fierce , implacable defiance towards human society ! I could no longer content myself with the theory which satisfied Conseil . 
That worthy fellow persisted in seeing in the Commander of the Nautilus one of those unknown servants who return mankind contempt for indifference . 
For him , he was a misunderstood genius who , tired of earth's deceptions , had taken refuge in this inaccessible medium , where he might follow his instincts freely . 
To my mind , this explains but one side of Captain Nemo's character . 
No Captain Nemo was not satisfied with shunning man . 
His formidable apparatus not only suited his instinct of freedom , but perhaps also the design of some terrible retaliation . 
At this moment nothing is clear to me I catch but a glimpse of light amidst all the darkness , and I must confine myself to writing as events shall dictate . 
That day , the th of January , , at noon , the second officer came to take the altitude of the sun . 
I mounted the platform , lit a cigar , and watched the operation . 
came to clean the glasses of the lantern . 
The electric lamp was combined in such a way as to give its most powerful light . 
Indeed , it was produced in vacuo , which insured both its steadiness and its intensity . 
When the Nautilus was ready to continue its submarine journey , I went down to the saloon . 
The panel was closed , and the course marked direct west . 
The Nautilus usually floated between fifty and a hundred fathoms deep . 
We went on so for some days . 
For some days we saw a great number of aquatic birds , sea mews or gulls . 
Some were cleverly killed and , prepared in a certain way , made very acceptable water game . 
As to the fish , they always provoked our admiration when we surprised the secrets of their aquatic life through the open panels . 
I saw many kinds which I never before had a chance of observing . 
The morning of the th , in S. lat . 
, we observed Keeling Island , a coral formation , planted with magnificent cocos , and which had been visited by Mr. Darwin and Captain Fitzroy . 
The Nautilus skirted the shores of this desert island for a little distance . 
Its nets brought up numerous specimens of polypi and curious shells of mollusca . 
one sentence stripped here Soon Keeling Island disappeared from the horizon , and our course was directed to the north west in the direction of the Indian Peninsula . 
From Keeling Island our course was slower and more variable , often taking us into great depths . 
Several times they made use of the inclined planes , which certain internal levers placed obliquely to the waterline . 
In that way we went about two miles , but without ever obtaining the greatest depths of the Indian Sea , which soundings of seven thousand fathoms have never reached . 
As to the temperature of the lower strata , the thermometer invariably indicated above zero . 
I only observed that in the upper regions the water was always colder in the high levels than at the surface of the sea . 
Who under such circumstances would not have taken it for a gigantic cetacean ? Three parts of this day I spent on the platform . 
Nothing on the horizon , till about four o'clock a steamer running west on our counter . 
Her masts were visible for an instant , but she could not see the Nautilus , being too low in the water . 
I fancied this steamboat belonged to the P. O. Company , which runs from Ceylon to Sydney , touching at King George's Point and Melbourne . 
At five o'clock in the evening , before that fleeting twilight which binds night to day in tropical zones , Conseil and I were astonished by a curious spectacle . 
It was a shoal of argonauts travelling along on the surface of the ocean . 
We could count several hundreds . 
They belonged to the tubercle kind which are peculiar to the Indian seas . 
These graceful molluscs moved backwards by means of their locomotive tube , through which they propelled the water already drawn in . 
I saw their spiral shaped and fluted shells , which Cuvier justly compares to an elegant skiff . 
A boat indeed ! It bears the creature which secretes it without its adhering to it . 
For nearly an hour the Nautilus floated in the midst of this shoal of molluscs . 
Then I know not what sudden fright they took . 
Never did the ships of a squadron manoeuvre with more unity . 
At that moment night fell suddenly , and the reeds , scarcely raised by the breeze , lay peaceably under the sides of the Nautilus . 
The next day , th of January , we cut the equator at the eighty second meridian and entered the northern hemisphere . 
During the day a formidable troop of sharks accompanied us , terrible creatures , which multiply in these seas and make them very dangerous . 
There were also some Isabella sharks , with rounded snouts marked with dark spots . 
These powerful creatures often hurled themselves at the windows of the saloon with such violence as to make us feel very insecure . 
At such times Ned Land was no longer master of himself . 
But the Nautilus , accelerating her speed , easily left the most rapid of them behind . 
The th of January , at the entrance of the vast Bay of Bengal , we met repeatedly a forbidding spectacle , dead bodies floating on the surface of the water . 
But the sharks did not fail to help them at their funeral work . 
About seven o'clock in the evening , the Nautilus , half immersed , was sailing in a sea of milk . 
At first sight the ocean seemed lactified . 
Was it the effect of the lunar rays ? No for the moon , scarcely two days old , was still lying hidden under the horizon in the rays of the sun . 
The whole sky , though lit by the sidereal rays , seemed black by contrast with the whiteness of the waters . 
Conseil could not believe his eyes , and questioned me as to the cause of this strange phenomenon . 
Happily I was able to answer him . 
It is called a milk sea , I explained . 
A large extent of white wavelets often to be seen on the coasts of Amboyna , and in these parts of the sea . 
But , sir , said Conseil , can you tell me what causes such an effect ? for I suppose the water is not really turned into milk . 
These insects adhere to one another sometimes for several leagues . 
Several leagues ! exclaimed Conseil . 
Yes , my boy and you need not try to compute the number of these infusoria . 
You will not be able , for , if I am not mistaken , ships have floated on these milk seas for more than forty miles . 
CHAPTER II A NOVEL PROPOSAL OF CAPTAIN NEMO'S On the th of February , when at noon the Nautilus came to the surface of the sea , in N. lat . 
, there was land in sight about eight miles to westward . 
The first thing I noticed was a range of mountains about two thousand feet high , the shapes of which were most capricious . 
On taking the bearings , I knew that we were nearing the island of Ceylon , the pearl which hangs from the lobe of the Indian Peninsula . 
Captain Nemo and his second appeared at this moment . 
The Captain glanced at the map . 
Then turning to me , said The Island of Ceylon , noted for its pearl fisheries . 
Would you like to visit one of them , M. Aronnax ? Certainly , Captain . 
Well , the thing is easy . 
Though , if we see the fisheries , we shall not see the fishermen . 
The annual exportation has not yet begun . 
Never mind , I will give orders to make for the Gulf of Manaar , where we shall arrive in the night . 
The Captain said something to his second , who immediately went out . 
Soon the Nautilus returned to her native element , and the manometer showed that she was about thirty feet deep . 
Agreed , Captain ! By the bye , M. Aronnax you are not afraid of sharks ? Sharks ! exclaimed I. This question seemed a very hard one . 
Well ? continued Captain Nemo . 
I admit , Captain , that I am not yet very familiar with that kind of fish . 
We are accustomed to them , replied Captain Nemo , and in time you will be too . 
However , we shall be armed , and on the road we may be able to hunt some of the tribe . 
So , till to morrow , sir , and early . 
This said in a careless tone , Captain Nemo left the saloon . 
Now , if you were invited to hunt the bear in the mountains of Switzerland , what would you say ? Very well ! to morrow we will go and hunt the bear . 
As for myself , I passed my hand over my forehead , on which stood large drops of cold perspiration . 
Let us reflect , said I , and take our time . 
However , I am not a negro , and if I were I think a little hesitation in this case would not be ill timed . 
At this moment Conseil and the Canadian entered , quite composed , and even joyous . 
They knew not what awaited them . 
Faith , sir , said Ned Land , your Captain Nemo the devil take him ! has just made us a very pleasant offer . 
He said nothing more ? Nothing more , sir , except that he had already spoken to you of this little walk . 
Very well sit down , my friends , and I will teach you . 
Branch of molluscs , said Conseil . 
Mussels too ? asked the Canadian . 
Yes , mussels of certain waters in Scotland , Wales , Ireland , Saxony , Bohemia , and France . 
Good ! For the future I shall pay attention , replied the Canadian . 
But , I continued , the particular mollusc which secretes the pearl is the pearl oyster . 
The pearl is nothing but a formation deposited in a globular form , either adhering to the oyster shell or buried in the folds of the creature . 
this paragraph is edited Are many pearls found in the same oyster ? asked Conseil . 
Some are a perfect casket . 
One oyster has been mentioned , though I allow myself to doubt it , as having contained no less than a hundred and fifty sharks . 
A hundred and fifty sharks ! exclaimed Ned Land . 
Did I say sharks ? said I hurriedly . 
I meant to say a hundred and fifty pearls . 
Sharks would not be sense . 
Certainly not , said Conseil but will you tell us now by what means they extract these pearls ? They proceed in various ways . 
Thus they die in the open air and at the end of ten days they are in a forward state of decomposition . 
They are then plunged into large reservoirs of sea water then they are opened and washed . 
The price of these pearls varies according to their size ? asked Conseil . 
, and their lustre that is , that bright and diapered sparkle which makes them so charming to the eye . 
The most beautiful are called virgin pearls , or paragons . 
They are formed alone in the tissue of the mollusc , are white , often opaque , and sometimes have the transparency of an opal they are generally round or oval . 
The round are made into bracelets , the oval into pendants , and , being more precious , are sold singly . 
Those adhering to the shell of the oyster are more irregular in shape , and are sold by weight . 
Lastly , in a lower order are classed those small pearls known under the name of seed pearls they are sold by measure , and are especially used in embroidery for church ornaments . 
But , said Conseil , is this pearl fishery dangerous ? No , I answered , quickly particularly if certain precautions are taken . 
What does one risk in such a calling ? said Ned Land , the swallowing of some mouthfuls of sea water ? As you say , Ned . 
In the water ? In the water . 
Faith , with a good harpoon ! You know , sir , these sharks are ill fashioned beasts . 
They turn on their bellies to seize you , and in that time Ned Land had a way of saying seize which made my blood run cold . 
Well , and you , Conseil , what do you think of sharks ? Me ! said Conseil . 
I will be frank , sir . 
So much the better , thought I. If you , sir , mean to face the sharks , I do not see why your faithful servant should not face them with you . 
CHAPTER III A PEARL OF TEN MILLIONS The next morning at four o'clock I was awakened by the steward whom Captain Nemo had placed at my service . 
I rose hurriedly , dressed , and went into the saloon . 
Captain Nemo was awaiting me . 
M. Aronnax , said he , are you ready to start ? I am ready . 
Then please to follow me . 
And my companions , Captain ? They have been told and are waiting . 
Are we not to put on our diver's dresses ? asked I. Not yet . 
It carries our diving apparatus , which we will put on when we begin our submarine journey . 
Captain Nemo conducted me to the central staircase , which led on the platform . 
Ned and Conseil were already there , delighted at the idea of the pleasure party which was preparing . 
Five sailors from the Nautilus , with their oars , waited in the boat , which had been made fast against the side . 
The night was still dark . 
Layers of clouds covered the sky , allowing but few stars to be seen . 
I looked on the side where the land lay , and saw nothing but a dark line enclosing three parts of the horizon , from south west to north west . 
There , under the dark waters , stretched the pintadine bank , an inexhaustible field of pearls , the length of which is more than twenty miles . 
Captain Nemo , Ned Land , Conseil , and I took our places in the stern of the boat . 
The master went to the tiller his four companions leaned on their oars , the painter was cast off , and we sheered off . 
The boat went towards the south the oarsmen did not hurry . 
I noticed that their strokes , strong in the water , only followed each other every ten seconds , according to the method generally adopted in the navy . 
Whilst the craft was running by its own velocity , the liquid drops struck the dark depths of the waves crisply like spats of melted lead . 
A little billow , spreading wide , gave a slight roll to the boat , and some samphire reeds flapped before it . 
As to Conseil , he was merely there from curiosity . 
About half past five the first tints on the horizon showed the upper line of coast more distinctly . 
Flat enough in the east , it rose a little to the south . 
Five miles still lay between us , and it was indistinct owing to the mist on the water . 
At six o'clock it became suddenly daylight , with that rapidity peculiar to tropical regions , which know neither dawn nor twilight . 
The solar rays pierced the curtain of clouds , piled up on the eastern horizon , and the radiant orb rose rapidly . 
I saw land distinctly , with a few trees scattered here and there . 
The boat neared Manaar Island , which was rounded to the south . 
Captain Nemo rose from his seat and watched the sea . 
Here we are , M. Aronnax , said Captain Nemo . 
You see that enclosed bay ? Here , in a month will be assembled the numerous fishing boats of the exporters , and these are the waters their divers will ransack so boldly . 
Happily , this bay is well situated for that kind of fishing . 
It is sheltered from the strongest winds the sea is never very rough here , which makes it favourable for the diver's work . 
We will now put on our dresses , and begin our walk . 
I did not answer , and , while watching the suspected waves , began with the help of the sailors to put on my heavy sea dress . 
Captain Nemo and my companions were also dressing . 
None of the Nautilus men were to accompany us on this new excursion . 
Soon we were enveloped to the throat in india rubber clothing the air apparatus fixed to our backs by braces . 
As to the Ruhmkorff apparatus , there was no necessity for it . 
Before putting my head into the copper cap , I had asked the question of the Captain . 
They would be useless , he replied . 
We are going to no great depth , and the solar rays will be enough to light our walk . 
Besides , it would not be prudent to carry the electric light in these waters its brilliancy might attract some of the dangerous inhabitants of the coast most inopportunely . 
As Captain Nemo pronounced these words , I turned to Conseil and Ned Land . 
But my two friends had already encased their heads in the metal cap , and they could neither hear nor answer . 
One last question remained to ask of Captain Nemo . 
Then , following the Captain's example , I allowed myself to be dressed in the heavy copper helmet , and our reservoirs of air were at once in activity . 
An instant after we were landed , one after the other , in about two yards of water upon an even sand . 
Captain Nemo made a sign with his hand , and we followed him by a gentle declivity till we disappeared under the waves . 
paragraphs missing At about seven o'clock we found ourselves at last surveying the oyster banks on which the pearl oysters are reproduced by millions . 
Ned Land , faithful to his instinct , hastened to fill a net which he carried by his side with some of the finest specimens . 
But we could not stop . 
We must follow the Captain , who seemed to guide him self by paths known only to himself . 
The ground was sensibly rising , and sometimes , on holding up my arm , it was above the surface of the sea . 
Then the level of the bank would sink capriciously . 
Often we rounded high rocks scarped into pyramids . 
In their dark fractures huge crustacea , perched upon their high claws like some war machine , watched us with fixed eyes , and under our feet crawled various kinds of annelides . 
At this moment there opened before us a large grotto dug in a picturesque heap of rocks and carpeted with all the thick warp of the submarine flora . 
At first it seemed very dark to me . 
The solar rays seemed to be extinguished by successive gradations , until its vague transparency became nothing more than drowned light . 
Captain Nemo entered we followed . 
My eyes soon accustomed themselves to this relative state of darkness . 
I could distinguish the arches springing capriciously from natural pillars , standing broad upon their granite base , like the heavy columns of Tuscan architecture . 
Why had our incomprehensible guide led us to the bottom of this submarine crypt ? I was soon to know . 
After descending a rather sharp declivity , our feet trod the bottom of a kind of circular pit . 
There Captain Nemo stopped , and with his hand indicated an object I had not yet perceived . 
I approached this extraordinary mollusc . 
It adhered by its filaments to a table of granite , and there , isolated , it developed itself in the calm waters of the grotto . 
I estimated the weight of this tridacne at lb . 
Such an oyster would contain lb . 
of meat and one must have the stomach of a Gargantua to demolish some dozens of them . 
Captain Nemo was evidently acquainted with the existence of this bivalve , and seemed to have a particular motive in verifying the actual state of this tridacne . 
There , between the folded plaits , I saw a loose pearl , whose size equalled that of a coco nut . 
Its globular shape , perfect clearness , and admirable lustre made it altogether a jewel of inestimable value . 
I then understood Captain Nemo's intention . 
In leaving this pearl hidden in the mantle of the tridacne he was allowing it to grow slowly . 
Each year the secretions of the mollusc would add new concentric circles . 
I estimated its value at L , at least . 
After ten minutes Captain Nemo stopped suddenly . 
I thought he had halted previously to returning . 
No by a gesture he bade us crouch beside him in a deep fracture of the rock , his hand pointed to one part of the liquid mass , which I watched attentively . 
About five yards from me a shadow appeared , and sank to the ground . 
The disquieting idea of sharks shot through my mind , but I was mistaken and once again it was not a monster of the ocean that we had anything to do with . 
It was a man , a living man , an Indian , a fisherman , a poor devil who , I suppose , had come to glean before the harvest . 
I could see the bottom of his canoe anchored some feet above his head . 
He dived and went up successively . 
A stone held between his feet , cut in the shape of a sugar loaf , whilst a rope fastened him to his boat , helped him to descend more rapidly . 
This was all his apparatus . 
Reaching the bottom , about five yards deep , he went on his knees and filled his bag with oysters picked up at random . 
Then he went up , emptied it , pulled up his stone , and began the operation once more , which lasted thirty seconds . 
The diver did not see us . 
The shadow of the rock hid us from sight . 
He did not carry away more than ten at each plunge , for he was obliged to pull them from the bank to which they adhered by means of their strong byssus . 
A gigantic shadow appeared just above the unfortunate diver . 
It was a shark of enormous size advancing diagonally , his eyes on fire , and his jaws open . 
I was mute with horror and unable to move . 
The very moment the shark was going to snap the unhappy fisherman in two , he perceived his new adversary , and , turning over , made straight towards him . 
I can still see Captain Nemo's position . 
But it was not all over . 
The shark had seemed to roar , if I might say so . 
The blood rushed in torrents from its wound . 
The sea was dyed red , and through the opaque liquid I could distinguish nothing more . 
The shark's struggles agitated the water with such fury that the rocking threatened to upset me . 
I wanted to go to the Captain's assistance , but , nailed to the spot with horror , I could not stir . 
I saw the haggard eye I saw the different phases of the fight . 
The Captain fell to the earth , upset by the enormous mass which leant upon him . 
The waves were impregnated with a mass of blood . 
They rocked under the shark's movements , which beat them with indescribable fury . 
Ned Land had not missed his aim . 
It was the monster's death rattle . 
Struck to the heart , it struggled in dreadful convulsions , the shock of which overthrew Conseil . 
We all three followed in a few seconds , saved by a miracle , and reached the fisherman's boat . 
Captain Nemo's first care was to recall the unfortunate man to life again . 
I did not think he could succeed . 
I hoped so , for the poor creature's immersion was not long but the blow from the shark's tail might have been his death blow . 
Happily , with the Captain's and Conseil's sharp friction , I saw consciousness return by degrees . 
His wondering eyes showed that he knew not to what super human beings he owed both fortune and life . 
Once on board , we each , with the help of the sailors , got rid of the heavy copper helmet . 
Captain Nemo's first word was to the Canadian . 
Thank you , Master Land , said he . 
It was in revenge , Captain , replied Ned Land . 
A ghastly smile passed across the Captain's lips , and that was all . 
To the Nautilus , said he . 
The boat flew over the waves . 
Some minutes after we met the shark's dead body floating . 
By the black marking of the extremity of its fins , I recognised the terrible melanopteron of the Indian Seas , of the species of shark so properly called . 
It was more than twenty five feet long its enormous mouth occupied one third of its body . 
It was an adult , as was known by its six rows of teeth placed in an isosceles triangle in the upper jaw . 
At half past eight we were again on board the Nautilus . 
There I reflected on the incidents which had taken place in our excursion to the Manaar Bank . 
Whatever he might say , this strange man had not yet succeeded in entirely crushing his heart . 
leagues from our starting point in the Japanese Seas . 
, when the Nautilus went to the surface of the ocean there was no land in sight . 
Its course was N. N. E. , in the direction of the Sea of Oman , between Arabia and the Indian Peninsula , which serves as an outlet to the Persian Gulf . 
It was evidently a block without any possible egress . 
Where was Captain Nemo taking us to ? I could not say . 
This , however , did not satisfy the Canadian , who that day came to me asking where we were going . 
We are going where our Captain's fancy takes us , Master Ned . 
His fancy cannot take us far , then , said the Canadian . 
The Persian Gulf has no outlet and , if we do go in , it will not be long before we are out again . 
And again , the Red Sea is not the road to take us back to Europe . 
But I never said we were going back to Europe . 
And once at the Cape of Good Hope ? asked the Canadian , with peculiar emphasis . 
Well , we shall penetrate into that Atlantic which we do not yet know . 
Ah ! friend Ned , you are getting tired of this journey under the sea you are surfeited with the incessantly varying spectacle of submarine wonders . 
For my part , I shall be sorry to see the end of a voyage which it is given to so few men to make . 
For four days , till the rd of February , the Nautilus scoured the Sea of Oman , at various speeds and at various depths . 
It seemed to go at random , as if hesitating as to which road it should follow , but we never passed the Tropic of Cancer . 
In quitting this sea we sighted Muscat for an instant , one of the most important towns of the country of Oman . 
I admired its strange aspect , surrounded by black rocks upon which its white houses and forts stood in relief . 
I saw the rounded domes of its mosques , the elegant points of its minarets , its fresh and verdant terraces . 
But it was only a vision ! The Nautilus soon sank under the waves of that part of the sea . 
We passed along the Arabian coast of Mahrah and Hadramaut , for a distance of six miles , its undulating line of mountains being occasionally relieved by some ancient ruin . 
I caught a glimpse of the octagon minarets of this town , which was at one time the richest commercial magazine on the coast . 
I certainly thought that Captain Nemo , arrived at this point , would back out again but I was mistaken , for he did no such thing , much to my surprise . 
The next day , the th of February , we entered the Straits of Bab el mandeb , the name of which , in the Arab tongue , means The Gate of Tears . 
To twenty miles in breadth , it is only thirty two in length . 
And for the Nautilus , starting at full speed , the crossing was scarcely the work of an hour . 
But I saw nothing , not even the Island of Perim , with which the British Government has fortified the position of Aden . 
So it remained prudently below . 
At last about noon , we were in the waters of the Red Sea . 
I would not even seek to understand the caprice which had decided Captain Nemo upon entering the gulf . 
But I quite approved of the Nautilus entering it . 
The Nautilus then approached the African shore , where the depth of the sea was greater . 
As soon as he saw me he approached and graciously offered me a cigar . 
Ah ! it is an intelligent boat ! Yes , sir , intelligent and invulnerable . 
It fears neither the terrible tempests of the Red Sea , nor its currents , nor its sandbanks . 
Certainly , said I , this sea is quoted as one of the worst , and in the time of the ancients , if I am not mistaken , its reputation was detestable . 
The Greek and Latin historians do not speak favourably of it , and Strabo says it is very dangerous during the Etesian winds and in the rainy season . 
It is , he pretends , a sea subject to fearful hurricanes , strewn with inhospitable islands , and which offers nothing good either on its surface or in its depths . 
One may see , I replied , that these historians never sailed on board the Nautilus . 
Just so , replied the Captain , smiling and in that respect moderns are not more advanced than the ancients . 
It required many ages to find out the mechanical power of steam . 
Who knows if , in another hundred years , we may not see a second Nautilus ? Progress is slow , M. Aronnax . 
It is true , I answered your boat is at least a century before its time , perhaps an era . 
What a misfortune that the secret of such an invention should die with its inventor ! Captain Nemo did not reply . 
After some minutes' silence he continued You were speaking of the opinions of ancient historians upon the dangerous navigation of the Red Sea . 
It is true , said I but were not their fears exaggerated ? Yes and no , M. Aronnax , replied Captain Nemo , who seemed to know the Red Sea by heart . 
Under such conditions shipwrecks were , and must have been , numerous . 
But in our time , steamers running between Suez and the South Seas have nothing more to fear from the fury of this gulf , in spite of contrary trade winds . 
I agree with you , said I and steam seems to have killed all gratitude in the hearts of sailors . 
Would you like to know the opinion of a chronicler of the fourteenth century ? Willingly . 
This fanciful writer pretends that its name was given to it after the passage of the Israelites , when Pharaoh perished in the waves which closed at the voice of Moses . 
A poet's explanation , Captain Nemo , I replied but I cannot content myself with that . 
I ask you for your personal opinion . 
Here it is , M. Aronnax . 
But up to this time I have seen nothing but transparent waves and without any particular colour . 
Very likely but as we advance to the bottom of the gulf , you will see this singular appearance . 
I remember seeing the Bay of Tor entirely red , like a sea of blood . 
And you attribute this colour to the presence of a microscopic seaweed ? Yes . 
So , Captain Nemo , it is not the first time you have overrun the Red Sea on board the Nautilus ? No , sir . 
What is it ? It is that the spot where Moses and his people passed is now so blocked up with sand that the camels can barely bathe their legs there . 
You can well understand that there would not be water enough for my Nautilus . 
And the spot ? I asked . 
The spot is situated a little above the Isthmus of Suez , in the arm which formerly made a deep estuary , when the Red Sea extended to the Salt Lakes . 
Very likely but useful to the whole world , said Captain Nemo . 
Very probably the canal which united the Nile to the Red Sea was begun by Sesostris , if we may believe tradition . 
It took four days to go up this canal , and it was so wide that two triremes could go abreast . 
It was carried on by Darius , the son of Hystaspes , and probably finished by Ptolemy II . 
This canal answered all commercial purposes to the age of Antonius , when it was abandoned and blocked up with sand . 
Yes , M. Aronnax you have the right to be proud of your countryman . 
Such a man brings more honour to a nation than great captains . 
He began , like so many others , with disgust and rebuffs but he has triumphed , for he has the genius of will . 
All honour to M. Lesseps ! Yes ! honour to the great citizen , I replied , surprised by the manner in which Captain Nemo had just spoken . 
The Mediterranean ! I exclaimed . 
Yes , sir does that astonish you ? What astonishes me is to think that we shall be there the day after to morrow . 
Indeed ? Yes , Captain , although by this time I ought to have accustomed myself to be surprised at nothing since I have been on board your boat . 
Beneath it ? Certainly , replied Captain Nemo quietly . 
A long time ago Nature made under this tongue of land what man has this day made on its surface . 
What ! such a passage exists ? Yes a subterranean passage , which I have named the Arabian Tunnel . 
It takes us beneath Suez and opens into the Gulf of Pelusium . 
But this isthmus is composed of nothing but quick sands ? To a certain depth . 
But at fifty five yards only there is a solid layer of rock . 
Did you discover this passage by chance ? I asked more and more surprised . 
Chance and reasoning , sir and by reasoning even more than by chance . 
Not only does this passage exist , but I have profited by it several times . 
Without that I should not have ventured this day into the impassable Red Sea . 
I noticed that in the Red Sea and in the Mediterranean there existed a certain number of fishes of a kind perfectly identical . 
I caught a large number of fishes in the neighbourhood of Suez . 
I passed a copper ring through their tails , and threw them back into the sea . 
Some months later , on the coast of Syria , I caught some of my fish ornamented with the ring . 
Thus the communication between the two was proved . 
, the Nautilus floated on the surface of the sea , approaching the Arabian coast . 
I saw Djeddah , the most important counting house of Egypt , Syria , Turkey , and India . 
I distinguished clearly enough its buildings , the vessels anchored at the quays , and those whose draught of water obliged them to anchor in the roads . 
The sun , rather low on the horizon , struck full on the houses of the town , bringing out their whiteness . 
Outside , some wooden cabins , and some made of reeds , showed the quarter inhabited by the Bedouins . 
Soon Djeddah was shut out from view by the shadows of night , and the Nautilus found herself under water slightly phosphorescent . 
The next day , the th of February , we sighted several ships running to windward . 
The Nautilus returned to its submarine navigation but at noon , when her bearings were taken , the sea being deserted , she rose again to her waterline . 
Accompanied by Ned and Conseil , I seated myself on the platform . 
The coast on the eastern side looked like a mass faintly printed upon a damp fog . 
And certainly before long the black object was not more than a mile from us . 
It looked like a great sandbank deposited in the open sea . 
It was a gigantic dugong ! Ned Land looked eagerly . 
His eyes shone with covetousness at the sight of the animal . 
His hand seemed ready to harpoon it . 
One would have thought he was awaiting the moment to throw himself into the sea and attack it in its element . 
At this instant Captain Nemo appeared on the platform . 
Well , you can try . 
Thank you , sir , said Ned Land , his eyes flaming . 
Only , continued the Captain , I advise you for your own sake not to miss the creature . 
Is the dugong dangerous to attack ? I asked , in spite of the Canadian's shrug of the shoulders . 
Yes , replied the Captain sometimes the animal turns upon its assailants and overturns their boat . 
But for Master Land this danger is not to be feared . 
His eye is prompt , his arm sure . 
At this moment seven men of the crew , mute and immovable as ever , mounted the platform . 
One carried a harpoon and a line similar to those employed in catching whales . 
The pinnace was lifted from the bridge , pulled from its socket , and let down into the sea . 
Six oarsmen took their seats , and the coxswain went to the tiller . 
Ned , Conseil , and I went to the back of the boat . 
You are not coming , Captain ? I asked . 
No , sir but I wish you good sport . 
The boat put off , and , lifted by the six rowers , drew rapidly towards the dugong , which floated about two miles from the Nautilus . 
Arrived some cables length from the cetacean , the speed slackened , and the oars dipped noiselessly into the quiet waters . 
Ned Land , harpoon in hand , stood in the fore part of the boat . 
The harpoon used for striking the whale is generally attached to a very long cord which runs out rapidly as the wounded creature draws it after him . 
I stood and carefully watched the Canadian's adversary . 
This dugong , which also bears the name of the halicore , closely resembles the manatee its oblong body terminated in a lengthened tail , and its lateral fins in perfect fingers . 
Its difference from the manatee consisted in its upper jaw , which was armed with two long and pointed teeth which formed on each side diverging tusks . 
This dugong which Ned Land was preparing to attack was of colossal dimensions it was more than seven yards long . 
It did not move , and seemed to be sleeping on the waves , which circumstance made it easier to capture . 
The boat approached within six yards of the animal . 
The oars rested on the rowlocks . 
Ned Land , his body thrown a little back , brandished the harpoon in his experienced hand . 
Suddenly a hissing noise was heard , and the dugong disappeared . 
The harpoon , although thrown with great force had apparently only struck the water . 
Curse it ! exclaimed the Canadian furiously I have missed it ! No , said I the creature is wounded look at the blood but your weapon has not stuck in his body . 
My harpoon ! my harpoon ! cried Ned Land . 
The sailors rowed on , and the coxswain made for the floating barrel . 
The harpoon regained , we followed in pursuit of the animal . 
The latter came now and then to the surface to breathe . 
Its wound had not weakened it , for it shot onwards with great rapidity . 
The boat , rowed by strong arms , flew on its track . 
Imagine the passion which excited impatient Ned Land ! He hurled at the unfortunate creature the most energetic expletives in the English tongue . 
For my part , I was only vexed to see the dugong escape all our attacks . 
This manoeuvre did not escape the Canadian . 
Look out ! he cried . 
The coxswain said some words in his outlandish tongue , doubtless warning the men to keep on their guard . 
Then , taking a spring , he threw himself upon us . 
I heard its teeth grind on the iron plate , and the dugong disappeared , carrying the harpoon with him . 
But the barrel soon returned to the surface , and shortly after the body of the animal , turned on its back . 
The boat came up with it , took it in tow , and made straight for the Nautilus . 
It required tackle of enormous strength to hoist the dugong on to the platform . 
The next day , th February , the larder of the Nautilus was enriched by some more delicate game . 
A flight of sea swallows rested on the Nautilus . 
They also took some dozen of Nile ducks , a wild bird of high flavour , its throat and upper part of the head white with black spots . 
About five o'clock in the evening we sighted to the north the Cape of Ras Mohammed . 
This cape forms the extremity of Arabia Petraea , comprised between the Gulf of Suez and the Gulf of Acabah . 
The Nautilus penetrated into the Straits of Jubal , which leads to the Gulf of Suez . 
I distinctly saw a high mountain , towering between the two gulfs of Ras Mohammed . 
It was Mount Horeb , that Sinai at the top of which Moses saw God face to face . 
From eight to nine o'clock the Nautilus remained some fathoms under the water . 
According to my calculation we must have been very near Suez . 
Through the panel of the saloon I saw the bottom of the rocks brilliantly lit up by our electric lamp . 
We seemed to be leaving the Straits behind us more and more . 
At a quarter past nine , the vessel having returned to the surface , I mounted the platform . 
Most impatient to pass through Captain Nemo's tunnel , I could not stay in one place , so came to breathe the fresh night air . 
Soon in the shadow I saw a pale light , half discoloured by the fog , shining about a mile from us . 
A floating lighthouse ! said someone near me . 
I turned , and saw the Captain . 
It is the floating light of Suez , he continued . 
It will not be long before we gain the entrance of the tunnel . 
The entrance cannot be easy ? No , sir for that reason I am accustomed to go into the steersman's cage and myself direct our course . 
It was a cabin measuring six feet square , very much like that occupied by the pilot on the steamboats of the Mississippi or Hudson . 
In the midst worked a wheel , placed vertically , and caught to the tiller rope , which ran to the back of the Nautilus . 
Four light ports with lenticular glasses , let in a groove in the partition of the cabin , allowed the man at the wheel to see in all directions . 
Outside , the sea appeared vividly lit up by the lantern , which shed its rays from the back of the cabin to the other extremity of the platform . 
Now , said Captain Nemo , let us try to make our passage . 
Electric wires connected the pilot's cage with the machinery room , and from there the Captain could communicate simultaneously to his Nautilus the direction and the speed . 
He pressed a metal knob , and at once the speed of the screw diminished . 
I looked in silence at the high straight wall we were running by at this moment , the immovable base of a massive sandy coast . 
We followed it thus for an hour only some few yards off . 
Captain Nemo did not take his eye from the knob , suspended by its two concentric circles in the cabin . 
At a simple gesture , the pilot modified the course of the Nautilus every instant . 
At a quarter past ten , the Captain himself took the helm . 
A large gallery , black and deep , opened before us . 
The Nautilus went boldly into it . 
A strange roaring was heard round its sides . 
It was the waters of the Red Sea , which the incline of the tunnel precipitated violently towards the Mediterranean . 
On the walls of the narrow passage I could see nothing but brilliant rays , straight lines , furrows of fire , traced by the great speed , under the brilliant electric light . 
CHAPTER VI THE GRECIAN ARCHIPELAGO The next day , the th of February , at the dawn of day , the Nautilus rose to the surface . 
I hastened on to the platform . 
Three miles to the south the dim outline of Pelusium was to be seen . 
A torrent had carried us from one sea to another . 
About seven o'clock Ned and Conseil joined me . 
Well , Sir Naturalist , said the Canadian , in a slightly jovial tone , and the Mediterranean ? We are floating on its surface , friend Ned . 
What ! said Conseil , this very night . 
Yes , this very night in a few minutes we have passed this impassable isthmus . 
I do not believe it , replied the Canadian . 
Then you are wrong , Master Land , I continued this low coast which rounds off to the south is the Egyptian coast . 
And you who have such good eyes , Ned , you can see the jetty of Port Said stretching into the sea . 
Certainly you are right , sir , and your Captain is a first rate man . 
We are in the Mediterranean . 
Good ! Now , if you please , let us talk of our own little affair , but so that no one hears us . 
Now , Ned , we listen what have you to tell us ? What I have to tell you is very simple . 
We are in Europe and before Captain Nemo's caprices drag us once more to the bottom of the Polar Seas , or lead us into Oceania , I ask to leave the Nautilus . 
I wished in no way to shackle the liberty of my companions , but I certainly felt no desire to leave Captain Nemo . 
Then , crossing his arms , he said Frankly , I do not regret this journey under the seas . 
I shall be glad to have made it but , now that it is made , let us have done with it . 
It will come to an end , Ned . 
Where and when ? Where I do not know when I cannot say or , rather , I suppose it will end when these seas have nothing more to teach us . 
Then what do you hope for ? demanded the Canadian . 
That circumstances may occur as well six months hence as now by which we may and ought to profit . 
Oh ! said Ned Land , and where shall we be in six months , if you please , Sir Naturalist ? Perhaps in China you know the Nautilus is a rapid traveller . 
It goes through water as swallows through the air , or as an express on the land . 
M. Aronnax , replied the Canadian , your arguments are rotten at the foundation . 
You speak in the future , We shall be there ! we shall be here ! I speak in the present , We are here , and we must profit by it . 
Ned Land's logic pressed me hard , and I felt myself beaten on that ground . 
I knew not what argument would now tell in my favour . 
Sir , continued Ned , let us suppose an impossibility if Captain Nemo should this day offer you your liberty would you accept it ? I do not know , I answered . 
And if , he added , the offer made you this day was never to be renewed , would you accept it ? Friend Ned , this is my answer . 
Your reasoning is against me . 
We must not rely on Captain Nemo's good will . 
Common prudence forbids him to set us at liberty . 
On the other side , prudence bids us profit by the first opportunity to leave the Nautilus . 
Well , M. Aronnax , that is wisely said . 
Only one observation just one . 
The occasion must be serious , and our first attempt must succeed if it fails , we shall never find another , and Captain Nemo will never forgive us . 
All that is true , replied the Canadian . 
But your observation applies equally to all attempts at flight , whether in two years' time , or in two days' . 
But the question is still this If a favourable opportunity presents itself , it must be seized . 
And you will try and save yourself by swimming ? Yes , if we were near enough to the bank , and if the vessel was floating at the time . 
Not if the bank was far away , and the boat was under the water . 
And in that case ? In that case , I should seek to make myself master of the pinnace . 
I know how it is worked . 
Well , Ned , watch for the opportunity but do not forget that a hitch will ruin us . 
I will not forget , sir . 
And now , Ned , would you like to know what I think of your project ? Certainly , M. Aronnax . 
Well , I think I do not say I hope I think that this favourable opportunity will never present itself . 
We shall see , replied Ned Land , shaking his head determinedly . 
And now , Ned Land , I added , let us stop here . 
Not another word on the subject . 
The day that you are ready , come and let us know , and we will follow you . 
I rely entirely upon you . 
Thus ended a conversation which , at no very distant time , led to such grave results . 
I must say here that facts seemed to confirm my foresight , to the Canadian's great despair . 
It was indeed the ancient abode of Proteus , the old shepherd of Neptune's flocks , now the Island of Scarpanto , situated between Rhodes and Crete . 
I saw nothing but the granite base through the glass panels of the saloon . 
The next day , the th of February , I resolved to employ some hours in studying the fishes of the Archipelago but for some reason or other the panels remained hermetically sealed . 
Upon taking the course of the Nautilus , I found that we were going towards Candia , the ancient Isle of Crete . 
At the time I embarked on the Abraham Lincoln , the whole of this island had risen in insurrection against the despotism of the Turks . 
But how the insurgents had fared since that time I was absolutely ignorant , and it was not Captain Nemo , deprived of all land communications , who could tell me . 
I made no allusion to this event when that night I found myself alone with him in the saloon . 
Besides , he seemed to be taciturn and preoccupied . 
Then , contrary to his custom , he ordered both panels to be opened , and , going from one to the other , observed the mass of waters attentively . 
To what end I could not guess so , on my side , I employed my time in studying the fish passing before my eyes . 
In the midst of the waters a man appeared , a diver , carrying at his belt a leathern purse . 
It was not a body abandoned to the waves it was a living man , swimming with a strong hand , disappearing occasionally to take breath at the surface . 
The man had approached , and , with his face flattened against the glass , was looking at us . 
To my great amazement , Captain Nemo signed to him . 
The diver answered with his hand , mounted immediately to the surface of the water , and did not appear again . 
Do not be uncomfortable , said Captain Nemo . 
It is Nicholas of Cape Matapan , surnamed Pesca . 
He is well known in all the Cyclades . 
A bold diver ! water is his element , and he lives more in it than on land , going continually from one island to another , even as far as Crete . 
You know him , Captain ? Why not , M. Aronnax ? Saying which , Captain Nemo went towards a piece of furniture standing near the left panel of the saloon . 
Near this piece of furniture , I saw a chest bound with iron , on the cover of which was a copper plate , bearing the cypher of the Nautilus with its device . 
At that moment , the Captain , without noticing my presence , opened the piece of furniture , a sort of strong box , which held a great many ingots . 
They were ingots of gold . 
Captain Nemo took the ingots one by one , and arranged them methodically in the chest , which he filled entirely . 
I estimated the contents at more than , lb . 
weight of gold , that is to say , nearly L , . 
The chest was securely fastened , and the Captain wrote an address on the lid , in characters which must have belonged to Modern Greece . 
This done , Captain Nemo pressed a knob , the wire of which communicated with the quarters of the crew . 
Four men appeared , and , not without some trouble , pushed the chest out of the saloon . 
Then I heard them hoisting it up the iron staircase by means of pulleys . 
At that moment , Captain Nemo turned to me . 
And you were saying , sir ? said he . 
I was saying nothing , Captain . 
Then , sir , if you will allow me , I will wish you good night . 
Whereupon he turned and left the saloon . 
I returned to my room much troubled , as one may believe . 
I vainly tried to sleep I sought the connecting link between the apparition of the diver and the chest filled with gold . 
Soon , I felt by certain movements of pitching and tossing that the Nautilus was leaving the depths and returning to the surface . 
Then I heard steps upon the platform and I knew they were unfastening the pinnace and launching it upon the waves . 
For one instant it struck the side of the Nautilus , then all noise ceased . 
So these millions had been transported to their address . 
My companions were not less surprised than myself . 
But where does he take his millions to ? asked Ned Land . 
To that there was no possible answer . 
I returned to the saloon after having breakfast and set to work . 
Till five o'clock in the evening I employed myself in arranging my notes . 
I felt so great a heat that I was obliged to take off my coat . 
It was strange , for we were under low latitudes and even then the Nautilus , submerged as it was , ought to experience no change of temperature . 
I looked at the manometer it showed a depth of sixty feet , to which atmospheric heat could never attain . 
I continued my work , but the temperature rose to such a pitch as to be intolerable . 
Could there be fire on board ? I asked myself . 
I was leaving the saloon , when Captain Nemo entered he approached the thermometer , consulted it , and , turning to me , said Forty two degrees . 
I have noticed it , Captain , I replied and if it gets much hotter we cannot bear it . 
Oh , sir , it will not get better if we do not wish it . 
You can reduce it as you please , then ? No but I can go farther from the stove which produces it . 
It is outward , then ! Certainly we are floating in a current of boiling water . 
Is it possible ! I exclaimed . 
The panels opened , and I saw the sea entirely white all round . 
A sulphurous smoke was curling amid the waves , which boiled like water in a copper . 
I placed my hand on one of the panes of glass , but the heat was so great that I quickly took it off again . 
Where are we ? I asked . 
Near the Island of Santorin , sir , replied the Captain . 
I wished to give you a sight of the curious spectacle of a submarine eruption . 
I thought , said I , that the formation of these new islands was ended . 
Nothing is ever ended in the volcanic parts of the sea , replied Captain Nemo and the globe is always being worked by subterranean fires . 
, appeared in the very place where these islets have recently been formed . 
Then they sank under the waves , to rise again in the year , when they again subsided . 
Since that time to our days the Plutonian work has been suspended . 
Seven days after , the th of February , the Island of Aphroessa appeared , leaving between Nea Kamenni and itself a canal ten yards broad . 
I was in these seas when the phenomenon occurred , and I was able therefore to observe all the different phases . 
The Island of Aphroessa , of round form , measured feet in diameter , and feet in height . 
It was composed of black and vitreous lava , mixed with fragments of felspar . 
And the canal in which we are at this moment ? I asked . 
Here it is , replied Captain Nemo , showing me a map of the Archipelago . 
You see , I have marked the new islands . 
I returned to the glass . 
The Nautilus was no longer moving , the heat was becoming unbearable . 
The sea , which till now had been white , was red , owing to the presence of salts of iron . 
In spite of the ship's being hermetically sealed , an insupportable smell of sulphur filled the saloon , and the brilliancy of the electricity was entirely extinguished by bright scarlet flames . 
I was in a bath , I was choking , I was broiled . 
We can remain no longer in this boiling water , said I to the Captain . 
It would not be prudent , replied the impassive Captain Nemo . 
An order was given the Nautilus tacked about and left the furnace it could not brave with impunity . 
A quarter of an hour after we were breathing fresh air on the surface . 
The thought then struck me that , if Ned Land had chosen this part of the sea for our flight , we should never have come alive out of this sea of fire . 
But , beautiful as it was , I could only take a rapid glance at the basin whose superficial area is two million of square yards . 
Even Captain Nemo's knowledge was lost to me , for this puzzling person did not appear once during our passage at full speed . 
I estimated the course which the Nautilus took under the waves of the sea at about six hundred leagues , and it was accomplished in forty eight hours . 
Starting on the morning of the th of February from the shores of Greece , we had crossed the Straits of Gibraltar by sunrise on the th . 
It was plain to me that this Mediterranean , enclosed in the midst of those countries which he wished to avoid , was distasteful to Captain Nemo . 
Those waves and those breezes brought back too many remembrances , if not too many regrets . 
Our speed was now twenty five miles an hour . 
It may be well understood that Ned Land , to his great disgust , was obliged to renounce his intended flight . 
He could not launch the pinnace , going at the rate of twelve or thirteen yards every second . 
To quit the Nautilus under such conditions would be as bad as jumping from a train going at full speed an imprudent thing , to say the least of it . 
Besides , our vessel only mounted to the surface of the waves at night to renew its stock of air it was steered entirely by the compass and the log . 
We were then passing between Sicily and the coast of Tunis . 
In the narrow space between Cape Bon and the Straits of Messina the bottom of the sea rose almost suddenly . 
There was a perfect bank , on which there was not more than nine fathoms of water , whilst on either side the depth was ninety fathoms . 
The Nautilus had to manoeuvre very carefully so as not to strike against this submarine barrier . 
I showed Conseil , on the map of the Mediterranean , the spot occupied by this reef . 
But if you please , sir , observed Conseil , it is like a real isthmus joining Europe to Africa . 
I can well believe it , said Conseil . 
I will add , I continued , that a similar barrier exists between Gibraltar and Ceuta , which in geological times formed the entire Mediterranean . 
What if some volcanic burst should one day raise these two barriers above the waves ? It is not probable , Conseil . 
I agree with you but I repeat , Conseil , this phenomenon will never happen . 
The violence of subterranean force is ever diminishing . 
But the sun ? The sun is not sufficient , Conseil . 
Can it give heat to a dead body ? Not that I know of . 
Well , my friend , this earth will one day be that cold corpse it will become uninhabitable and uninhabited like the moon , which has long since lost all its vital heat . 
In how many centuries ? In some hundreds of thousands of years , my boy . 
Then , said Conseil , we shall have time to finish our journey that is , if Ned Land does not interfere with it . 
And Conseil , reassured , returned to the study of the bank , which the Nautilus was skirting at a moderate speed . 
During the night of the th and th February we had entered the second Mediterranean basin , the greatest depth of which was , fathoms . 
The Nautilus , by the action of its crew , slid down the inclined planes and buried itself in the lowest depths of the sea . 
On the th of February , about three o'clock in the morning , we were at the entrance of the Straits of Gibraltar . 
A fact indeed and it was this counter current by which the Nautilus profited . 
It advanced rapidly by the narrow pass . 
Where were we going now , and what was reserved for the future ? The Nautilus , leaving the Straits of Gibraltar , had gone far out . 
It returned to the surface of the waves , and our daily walks on the platform were restored to us . 
I mounted at once , accompanied by Ned Land and Conseil . 
At a distance of about twelve miles , Cape St . 
Vincent was dimly to be seen , forming the south western point of the Spanish peninsula . 
A strong southerly gale was blowing . 
The sea was swollen and billowy it made the Nautilus rock violently . 
It was almost impossible to keep one's foot on the platform , which the heavy rolls of the sea beat over every instant . 
So we descended after inhaling some mouthfuls of fresh air . 
I returned to my room , Conseil to his cabin but the Canadian , with a preoccupied air , followed me . 
Our rapid passage across the Mediterranean had not allowed him to put his project into execution , and he could not help showing his disappointment . 
When the door of my room was shut , he sat down and looked at me silently . 
Friend Ned , said I , I understand you but you cannot reproach yourself . 
To have attempted to leave the Nautilus under the circumstances would have been folly . 
Ned Land did not answer his compressed lips and frowning brow showed with him the violent possession this fixed idea had taken of his mind . 
Let us see , I continued we need not despair yet . 
We are going up the coast of Portugal again France and England are not far off , where we can easily find refuge . 
But we know now that Captain Nemo does not fly from civilised seas , and in some days I think you can act with security . 
Ned Land still looked at me fixedly at length his fixed lips parted , and he said , It is for to night . 
I drew myself up suddenly . 
I was , I admit , little prepared for this communication . 
I wanted to answer the Canadian , but words would not come . 
We agreed to wait for an opportunity , continued Ned Land , and the opportunity has arrived . 
This night we shall be but a few miles from the Spanish coast . 
I have your word , M. Aronnax , and I rely upon you . 
As I was silent , the Canadian approached me . 
To night , at nine o'clock , said he . 
At that moment Captain Nemo will be shut up in his room , probably in bed . 
Neither the engineers nor the ship's crew can see us . 
Conseil and I will gain the central staircase , and you , M. Aronnax , will remain in the library , two steps from us , waiting my signal . 
The oars , the mast , and the sail are in the canoe . 
I have even succeeded in getting some provisions . 
I have procured an English wrench , to unfasten the bolts which attach it to the shell of the Nautilus . 
So all is ready , till to night . 
That I allow , replied the Canadian but we must risk that . 
Liberty is worth paying for besides , the boat is strong , and a few miles with a fair wind to carry us is no great thing . 
But adieu now till to night . 
With these words the Canadian withdrew , leaving me almost dumb . 
I had imagined that , the chance gone , I should have time to reflect and discuss the matter . 
My obstinate companion had given me no time and , after all , what could I have said to him ? Ned Land was perfectly right . 
There was almost the opportunity to profit by . 
Could I retract my word , and take upon myself the responsibility of compromising the future of my companions ? To morrow Captain Nemo might take us far from all land . 
At that moment a rather loud hissing noise told me that the reservoirs were filling , and that the Nautilus was sinking under the waves of the Atlantic . 
A sad day I passed , between the desire of regaining my liberty of action and of abandoning the wonderful Nautilus , and leaving my submarine studies incomplete . 
Twice I went to the saloon . 
I wished to consult the compass . 
I wished to see if the direction the Nautilus was taking was bringing us nearer or taking us farther from the coast . 
But no the Nautilus kept in Portuguese waters . 
I must therefore take my part and prepare for flight . 
My luggage was not heavy my notes , nothing more . 
Certainly I had no cause to complain of him on the contrary , never was hospitality freer than his . 
In leaving him I could not be taxed with ingratitude . 
No oath bound us to him . 
It was on the strength of circumstances he relied , and not upon our word , to fix us for ever . 
I had not seen the Captain since our visit to the Island of Santorin . 
Would chance bring me to his presence before our departure ? I wished it , and I feared it at the same time . 
I listened if I could hear him walking the room contiguous to mine . 
No sound reached my ear . 
I felt an unbearable uneasiness . 
This day of waiting seemed eternal . 
Hours struck too slowly to keep pace with my impatience . 
My dinner was served in my room as usual . 
I ate but little I was too preoccupied . 
I left the table at seven o'clock . 
still separated me from the moment in which I was to join Ned Land . 
I could not remain quiet . 
I went and came , hoping to calm my troubled spirit by constant movement . 
saddened , at my desertion , made my heart beat . 
I wanted to see the saloon for the last time . 
I descended the stairs and arrived in the museum , where I had passed so many useful and agreeable hours . 
I looked at all its riches , all its treasures , like a man on the eve of an eternal exile , who was leaving never to return . 
In passing through the saloon , I came near the door let into the angle which opened into the Captain's room . 
To my great surprise , this door was ajar . 
If Captain Nemo should be in his room , he could see me . 
But , hearing no sound , I drew nearer . 
I pushed open the door and took some steps forward . 
Still the same monklike severity of aspect . 
Suddenly the clock struck eight . 
The first beat of the hammer on the bell awoke me from my dreams . 
I trembled as if an invisible eye had plunged into my most secret thoughts , and I hurried from the room . 
There my eye fell upon the compass . 
Our course was still north . 
The log indicated moderate speed , the manometer a depth of about sixty feet . 
I returned to my room , clothed myself warmly sea boots , an otterskin cap , a great coat of byssus , lined with sealskin I was ready , I was waiting . 
The vibration of the screw alone broke the deep silence which reigned on board . 
Would no loud voice suddenly inform me that Ned Land had been surprised in his projected flight . 
A mortal dread hung over me , and I vainly tried to regain my accustomed coolness . 
At a few minutes to nine , I put my ear to the Captain's door . 
I left my room and returned to the saloon , which was half in obscurity , but deserted . 
I opened the door communicating with the library . 
The same insufficient light , the same solitude . 
I placed myself near the door leading to the central staircase , and there waited for Ned Land's signal . 
At that moment the trembling of the screw sensibly diminished , then it stopped entirely . 
The silence was now only disturbed by the beatings of my own heart . 
Suddenly a slight shock was felt and I knew that the Nautilus had stopped at the bottom of the ocean . 
The Canadian's signal did not come . 
I felt inclined to join Ned Land and beg of him to put off his attempt . 
I felt that we were not sailing under our usual conditions . 
At this moment the door of the large saloon opened , and Captain Nemo appeared . 
He saw me , and without further preamble began in an amiable tone of voice Ah , sir ! I have been looking for you . 
Well , continued Captain Nemo , you heard my question ! Do you know the history of Spain ? Very slightly , I answered . 
Well , here are learned men having to learn , said the Captain . 
Come , sit down , and I will tell you a curious episode in this history . 
Sir , listen well , said he this history will interest you on one side , for it will answer a question which doubtless you have not been able to solve . 
I listen , Captain , said I , not knowing what my interlocutor was driving at , and asking myself if this incident was bearing on our projected flight . 
Sir , if you have no objection , we will go back to . 
This prince reigned more or less badly under the name of Philip V , and had a strong party against him abroad . 
Spain must resist this coalition but she was almost entirely unprovided with either soldiers or sailors . 
However , money would not fail them , provided that their galleons , laden with gold and silver from America , once entered their ports . 
This convoy was to go to Cadiz , but the Admiral , hearing that an English fleet was cruising in those waters , resolved to make for a French port . 
The Spanish commanders of the convoy objected to this decision . 
Admiral Chateau Renaud had the rashness to obey this injunction , and the galleons entered Vigo Bay . 
Unfortunately , it formed an open road which could not be defended in any way . 
They must therefore hasten to unload the galleons before the arrival of the combined fleet and time would not have failed them had not a miserable question of rivalry suddenly arisen . 
You are following the chain of events ? asked Captain Nemo . 
Perfectly , said I , not knowing the end proposed by this historical lesson . 
The merchants of Cadiz had a privilege by which they had the right of receiving all merchandise coming from the West Indies . 
Now , to disembark these ingots at the port of Vigo was depriving them of their rights . 
But , seeing that the treasure must fall into the enemy's hands , he burnt and scuttled every galleon , which went to the bottom with their immense riches . 
I admit I could not see yet why this history should interest me . 
Well , M. Aronnax , replied Captain Nemo , we are in that Vigo Bay and it rests with yourself whether you will penetrate its mysteries . 
The Captain rose , telling me to follow him . 
I had had time to recover . 
The saloon was dark , but through the transparent glass the waves were sparkling . 
For half a mile around the Nautilus , the waters seemed bathed in electric light . 
The sandy bottom was clean and bright . 
Some of the ship's crew in their diving dresses were clearing away half rotten barrels and empty cases from the midst of the blackened wrecks . 
From these cases and from these barrels escaped ingots of gold and silver , cascades of piastres and jewels . 
The sand was heaped up with them . 
Laden with their precious booty , the men returned to the Nautilus , disposed of their burden , and went back to this inexhaustible fishery of gold and silver . 
This was the scene of the battle of the nd of October , . 
Here on this very spot the galleons laden for the Spanish Government had sunk . 
Here Captain Nemo came , according to his wants , to pack up those millions with which he burdened the Nautilus . 
It was for him and him alone America had given up her precious metals . 
He was heir direct , without anyone to share , in those treasures torn from the Incas and from the conquered of Ferdinand Cortez . 
Doubtless but to extract this money the expense would be greater than the profit . 
Can you understand now the source of the millions I am worth ? I understand , Captain . 
But allow me to tell you that in exploring Vigo Bay you have only been beforehand with a rival society . 
And which ? A society which has received from the Spanish Government the privilege of seeking those buried galleons . 
The shareholders are led on by the allurement of an enormous bounty , for they value these rich shipwrecks at five hundred millions . 
Five hundred millions they were , answered Captain Nemo , but they are so no longer . 
Just so , said I and a warning to those shareholders would be an act of charity . 
But who knows if it would be well received ? What gamblers usually regret above all is less the loss of their money than of their foolish hopes . 
After all , I pity them less than the thousands of unfortunates to whom so much riches well distributed would have been profitable , whilst for them they will be for ever barren . 
I had no sooner expressed this regret than I felt that it must have wounded Captain Nemo . 
Barren ! he exclaimed , with animation . 
And I then understood for whom those millions were destined which were forwarded by Captain Nemo when the Nautilus was cruising in the waters of Crete . 
CHAPTER IX A VANISHED CONTINENT The next morning , the th of February , I saw the Canadian enter my room . 
Well , sir ? said he . 
Well , Ned , fortune was against us yesterday . 
Yes that Captain must needs stop exactly at the hour we intended leaving his vessel . 
Yes , Ned , he had business at his bankers . 
His bankers ! Or rather his banking house by that I mean the ocean , where his riches are safer than in the chests of the State . 
However , said he , all is not ended . 
It is only a blow of the harpoon lost . 
Another time we must succeed and to night , if necessary In what direction is the Nautilus going ? I asked . 
I do not know , replied Ned . 
Well , at noon we shall see the point . 
The Canadian returned to Conseil . 
As soon as I was dressed , I went into the saloon . 
The compass was not reassuring . 
The course of the Nautilus was S. S. W. We were turning our backs on Europe . 
I waited with some impatience till the ship's place was pricked on the chart . 
At about half past eleven the reservoirs were emptied , and our vessel rose to the surface of the ocean . 
I rushed towards the platform . 
Ned Land had preceded me . 
No more land in sight . 
Nothing but an immense sea . 
Some sails on the horizon , doubtless those going to San Roque in search of favourable winds for doubling the Cape of Good Hope . 
A gale of wind was preparing . 
Ned raved , and tried to pierce the cloudy horizon . 
He still hoped that behind all that fog stretched the land he so longed for . 
At noon the sun showed itself for an instant . 
The second profited by this brightness to take its height . 
Then , the sea becoming more billowy , we descended , and the panel closed . 
An hour after , upon consulting the chart , I saw the position of the Nautilus was marked at long . 
, at leagues from the nearest coast . 
There was no means of flight , and I leave you to imagine the rage of the Canadian when I informed him of our situation . 
For myself , I was not particularly sorry . 
I felt lightened of the load which had oppressed me , and was able to return with some degree of calmness to my accustomed work . 
That night , about eleven o'clock , I received a most unexpected visit from Captain Nemo . 
He asked me very graciously if I felt fatigued from my watch of the preceding night . 
I answered in the negative . 
Then , M. Aronnax , I propose a curious excursion . 
Propose , Captain ? You have hitherto only visited the submarine depths by daylight , under the brightness of the sun . 
Would it suit you to see them in the darkness of the night ? Most willingly . 
I warn you , the way will be tiring . 
We shall have far to walk , and must climb a mountain . 
The roads are not well kept . 
What you say , Captain , only heightens my curiosity I am ready to follow you . 
Come then , sir , we will put on our diving dresses . 
Arrived at the robing room , I saw that neither of my companions nor any of the ship's crew were to follow us on this excursion . 
Captain Nemo had not even proposed my taking with me either Ned or Conseil . 
In a few moments we had put on our diving dresses they placed on our backs the reservoirs , abundantly filled with air , but no electric lamps were prepared . 
I called the Captain's attention to the fact . 
They will be useless , he replied . 
I thought I had not heard aright , but I could not repeat my observation , for the Captain's head had already disappeared in its metal case . 
The waters were profoundly dark , but Captain Nemo pointed out in the distance a reddish spot , a sort of large light shining brilliantly about two miles from the Nautilus . 
What this fire might be , what could feed it , why and how it lit up the liquid mass , I could not say . 
As we advanced , I heard a kind of pattering above my head . 
The noise redoubling , sometimes producing a continual shower , I soon understood the cause . 
It was rain falling violently , and crisping the surface of the waves . 
But , indeed , in the thick diving dress , the liquid element is no longer felt , and one only seems to be in an atmosphere somewhat denser than the terrestrial atmosphere . 
After half an hour's walk the soil became stony . 
Medusae , microscopic crustacea , and pennatules lit it slightly with their phosphorescent gleam . 
I caught a glimpse of pieces of stone covered with millions of zoophytes and masses of sea weed . 
My feet often slipped upon this sticky carpet of sea weed , and without my iron tipped stick I should have fallen more than once . 
In turning round , I could still see the whitish lantern of the Nautilus beginning to pale in the distance . 
But the rosy light which guided us increased and lit up the horizon . 
The presence of this fire under water puzzled me in the highest degree . 
Our road grew lighter and lighter . 
The white glimmer came in rays from the summit of a mountain about feet high . 
But what I saw was simply a reflection , developed by the clearness of the waters . 
The source of this inexplicable light was a fire on the opposite side of the mountain . 
In the midst of this stony maze furrowing the bottom of the Atlantic , Captain Nemo advanced without hesitation . 
He knew this dreary road . 
Doubtless he had often travelled over it , and could not lose himself . 
I followed him with unshaken confidence . 
It was one in the morning when we arrived at the first slopes of the mountain but to gain access to them we must venture through the difficult paths of a vast copse . 
Yes a copse of dead trees , without leaves , without sap , trees petrified by the action of the water and here and there overtopped by gigantic pines . 
Picture to yourself a forest in the Hartz hanging on to the sides of the mountain , but a forest swallowed up . 
The paths were encumbered with seaweed and fucus , between which grovelled a whole world of crustacea . 
Pressing onward , I felt no fatigue . 
I followed my guide , who was never tired . 
To right and left ran long , dark galleries , where sight was lost . 
Here opened vast glades which the hand of man seemed to have worked and I sometimes asked myself if some inhabitant of these submarine regions would not suddenly appear to me . 
But Captain Nemo was still mounting . 
I could not stay behind . 
My stick gave me good help . 
A false step would have been dangerous on the narrow passes sloping down to the sides of the gulfs but I walked with firm step , without feeling any giddiness . 
There , monumental rocks , leaning on their regularly cut bases , seemed to defy all laws of equilibrium . 
From between their stony knees trees sprang , like a jet under heavy pressure , and upheld others which upheld them . 
Natural towers , large scarps , cut perpendicularly , like a curtain , inclined at an angle which the laws of gravitation could never have tolerated in terrestrial regions . 
Some petrified shrubs ran fantastically here and there . 
Fishes got up under our feet like birds in the long grass . 
The massive rocks were rent with impenetrable fractures , deep grottos , and unfathomable holes , at the bottom of which formidable creatures might be heard moving . 
My blood curdled when I saw enormous antennae blocking my road , or some frightful claw closing with a noise in the shadow of some cavity . 
Millions of luminous spots shone brightly in the midst of the darkness . 
We had now arrived on the first platform , where other surprises awaited me . 
Before us lay some picturesque ruins , which betrayed the hand of man and not that of the Creator . 
I looked down the side we had just climbed . 
My eyes ranged far over a large space lit by a violent fulguration . 
In fact , the mountain was a volcano . 
Thus situated , this volcano lit the lower plain like an immense torch , even to the extreme limits of the horizon . 
I said that the submarine crater threw up lava , but no flames . 
Rapid currents bearing all these gases in diffusion and torrents of lava slid to the bottom of the mountain like an eruption of Vesuvius on another Terra del Greco . 
Farther on again , long lines of sunken walls and broad , deserted streets a perfect Pompeii escaped beneath the waters . 
Such was the sight that Captain Nemo brought before my eyes ! Where was I ? Where was I ? I must know at any cost . 
I had it there now before my eyes , bearing upon it the unexceptionable testimony of its catastrophe . 
I was walking on the very spot where the contemporaries of the first man had walked . 
Whilst I was trying to fix in my mind every detail of this grand landscape , Captain Nemo remained motionless , as if petrified in mute ecstasy , leaning on a mossy stone . 
Rapid tremblings ran along the mountain caused by internal bubblings , deep noise , distinctly transmitted through the liquid medium were echoed with majestic grandeur . 
At this moment the moon appeared through the mass of waters and threw her pale rays on the buried continent . 
It was but a gleam , but what an indescribable effect ! The Captain rose , cast one last look on the immense plain , and then bade me follow him . 
We descended the mountain rapidly , and , the mineral forest once passed , I saw the lantern of the Nautilus shining like a star . 
The Captain walked straight to it , and we got on board as the first rays of light whitened the surface of the ocean . 
CHAPTER X THE SUBMARINE COAL MINES The next day , the th of February , I awoke very late the fatigues of the previous night had prolonged my sleep until eleven o'clock . 
I dressed quickly , and hastened to find the course the Nautilus was taking . 
The instruments showed it to be still toward the south , with a speed of twenty miles an hour and a depth of fifty fathoms . 
The species of fishes here did not differ much from those already noticed . 
Its summit evidently passed the level of the ocean . 
It must be a continent , or at least an island one of the Canaries , or of the Cape Verde Islands . 
The bearings not being yet taken , perhaps designedly , I was ignorant of our exact position . 
In any case , such a wall seemed to me to mark the limits of that Atlantis , of which we had in reality passed over only the smallest part . 
Much longer should I have remained at the window admiring the beauties of sea and sky , but the panels closed . 
At this moment the Nautilus arrived at the side of this high , perpendicular wall . 
What it would do , I could not guess . 
I returned to my room it no longer moved . 
I laid myself down with the full intention of waking after a few hours' sleep but it was eight o'clock the next day when I entered the saloon . 
I looked at the manometer . 
It told me that the Nautilus was floating on the surface of the ocean . 
Besides , I heard steps on the platform . 
I went to the panel . 
It was open but , instead of broad daylight , as I expected , I was surrounded by profound darkness . 
Where were we ? Was I mistaken ? Was it still night ? No not a star was shining and night has not that utter darkness . 
I knew not what to think , when a voice near me said Is that you , Professor ? Ah ! Captain , I answered , where are we ? Underground , sir . 
And the Nautilus floating still ? It always floats . 
But I do not understand . 
Wait a few minutes , our lantern will be lit , and , if you like light places , you will be satisfied . 
I stood on the platform and waited . 
At this instant the lantern was lit , and its vividness dispelled the faint light . 
I closed my dazzled eyes for an instant , and then looked again . 
The Nautilus was stationary , floating near a mountain which formed a sort of quay . 
The lake , then , supporting it was a lake imprisoned by a circle of walls , measuring two miles in diameter and six in circumference . 
could only be the same as the outside level , for there must necessarily be a communication between the lake and the sea . 
At the summit was a circular orifice , by which I had caught the slight gleam of light , evidently daylight . 
Where are we ? I asked . 
In the very heart of an extinct volcano , the interior of which has been invaded by the sea , after some great convulsion of the earth . 
Whilst you were sleeping , Professor , the Nautilus penetrated to this lagoon by a natural canal , which opens about ten yards beneath the surface of the ocean . 
This is its harbour of refuge , a sure , commodious , and mysterious one , sheltered from all gales . 
Show me , if you can , on the coasts of any of your continents or islands , a road which can give such perfect refuge from all storms . 
Certainly , I replied , you are in safety here , Captain Nemo . 
But what is this volcanic mountain ? It belongs to one of the numerous islands with which this sea is strewn to vessels a simple sandbank to us an immense cavern . 
Chance led me to discover it , and chance served me well . 
But of what use is this refuge , Captain ? The Nautilus wants no port . 
And exactly on this spot the sea covers entire forests embedded during the geological periods , now mineralised and transformed into coal for me they are an inexhaustible mine . 
Your men follow the trade of miners here , then , Captain ? Exactly so . 
These mines extend under the waves like the mines of Newcastle . 
Here , in their diving dresses , pick axe and shovel in hand , my men extract the coal , which I do not even ask from the mines of the earth . 
When I burn this combustible for the manufacture of sodium , the smoke , escaping from the crater of the mountain , gives it the appearance of a still active volcano . 
And we shall see your companions at work ? No not this time at least for I am in a hurry to continue our submarine tour of the earth . 
So I shall content myself with drawing from the reserve of sodium I already possess . 
The time for loading is one day only , and we continue our voyage . 
So , if you wish to go over the cavern and make the round of the lagoon , you must take advantage of to day , M. Aronnax . 
I thanked the Captain and went to look for my companions , who had not yet left their cabin . 
I invited them to follow me without saying where we were . 
Conseil , who was astonished at nothing , seemed to look upon it as quite natural that he should wake under a mountain , after having fallen asleep under the waves . 
But Ned Land thought of nothing but finding whether the cavern had any exit . 
After breakfast , about ten o'clock , we went down on to the mountain . 
Here we are , once more on land , said Conseil . 
I do not call this land , said the Canadian . 
And besides , we are not on it , but beneath it . 
Between the walls of the mountains and the waters of the lake lay a sandy shore which , at its greatest breadth , measured five hundred feet . 
On this soil one might easily make the tour of the lake . 
But the base of the high partitions was stony ground , with volcanic locks and enormous pumice stones lying in picturesque heaps . 
All these detached masses , covered with enamel , polished by the action of the subterraneous fires , shone resplendent by the light of our electric lantern . 
The mica dust from the shore , rising under our feet , flew like a cloud of sparks . 
The volcanic nature of this enormous excavation was confirmed on all sides , and I pointed it out to my companions . 
I can picture it perfectly , said Conseil . 
Then the waters of the Atlantic rushed into the interior of the mountain . 
There must have been a terrible struggle between the two elements , a struggle which ended in the victory of Neptune . 
But many ages have run out since then , and the submerged volcano is now a peaceable grotto . 
But , friend Ned , said Conseil , if the passage had not been under the sea , the Nautilus could not have gone through it . 
The steps became more and more perpendicular and narrow . 
Deep excavations , which we were obliged to cross , cut them here and there sloping masses had to be turned . 
We slid upon our knees and crawled along . 
But Conseil's dexterity and the Canadian's strength surmounted all obstacles . 
At a height of about feet the nature of the ground changed without becoming more practicable . 
Between the blocks of basalt wound long streams of lava , long since grown cold , encrusted with bituminous rays and in some places there were spread large carpets of sulphur . 
A more powerful light shone through the upper crater , shedding a vague glimmer over these volcanic depressions for ever buried in the bosom of this extinguished mountain . 
But our upward march was soon stopped at a height of about two hundred and fifty feet by impassable obstacles . 
There was a complete vaulted arch overhanging us , and our ascent was changed to a circular walk . 
At the last change vegetable life began to struggle with the mineral . 
Some shrubs , and even some trees , grew from the fractures of the walls . 
Here and there some chrysanthemums grew timidly at the foot of an aloe with long , sickly looking leaves . 
But between the streams of lava , I saw some little violets still slightly perfumed , and I admit that I smelt them with delight . 
Perfume is the soul of the flower , and sea flowers have no soul . 
Yes , a hive , repeated the Canadian , and bees humming round it . 
I approached , and was bound to believe my own eyes . 
There at a hole bored in one of the dragon trees were some thousands of these ingenious insects , so common in all the Canaries , and whose produce is so much esteemed . 
Naturally enough , the Canadian wished to gather the honey , and I could not well oppose his wish . 
A quantity of dry leaves , mixed with sulphur , he lit with a spark from his flint , and he began to smoke out the bees . 
The humming ceased by degrees , and the hive eventually yielded several pounds of the sweetest honey , with which Ned Land filled his haversack . 
When I have mixed this honey with the paste of the bread fruit , said he , I shall be able to offer you a succulent cake . 
bread fruit' has been substituted for artocarpus' in this ed . 
'Pon my word , said Conseil , it will be gingerbread . 
Never mind the gingerbread , said I let us continue our interesting walk . 
At every turn of the path we were following , the lake appeared in all its length and breadth . 
The lantern lit up the whole of its peaceable surface , which knew neither ripple nor wave . 
The Nautilus remained perfectly immovable . 
On the platform , and on the mountain , the ship's crew were working like black shadows clearly carved against the luminous atmosphere . 
We were now going round the highest crest of the first layers of rock which upheld the roof . 
I then saw that bees were not the only representatives of the animal kingdom in the interior of this volcano . 
Birds of prey hovered here and there in the shadows , or fled from their nests on the top of the rocks . 
There were sparrow hawks , with white breasts , and kestrels , and down the slopes scampered , with their long legs , several fine fat bustards . 
I leave anyone to imagine the covetousness of the Canadian at the sight of this savoury game , and whether he did not regret having no gun . 
But he did his best to replace the lead by stones , and , after several fruitless attempts , he succeeded in wounding a magnificent bird . 
To say that he risked his life twenty times before reaching it is but the truth but he managed so well that the creature joined the honey cakes in his bag . 
We were now obliged to descend toward the shore , the crest becoming impracticable . 
Above us the crater seemed to gape like the mouth of a well . 
Half an hour after the Canadian's last exploit we had regained the inner shore . 
Here the flora was represented by large carpets of marine crystal , a little umbelliferous plant very good to pickle , which also bears the name of pierce stone and sea fennel . 
Conseil gathered some bundles of it . 
Three quarters of an hour later we had finished our circuitous walk and were on board . 
The crew had just finished loading the sodium , and the Nautilus could have left that instant . 
But Captain Nemo gave no order . 
Did he wish to wait until night , and leave the submarine passage secretly ? Perhaps so . 
Whatever it might be , the next day , the Nautilus , having left its port , steered clear of all land at a few yards beneath the waves of the Atlantic . 
CHAPTER XI THE SARGASSO SEA That day the Nautilus crossed a singular part of the Atlantic Ocean . 
No one can be ignorant of the existence of a current of warm water known by the name of the Gulf Stream . 
After leaving the Gulf of Florida , we went in the direction of Spitzbergen . 
But before entering the Gulf of Mexico , about of N. lat . 
And Captain Nemo , not wishing to entangle his screw in this herbaceous mass , kept some yards beneath the surface of the waves . 
The name Sargasso comes from the Spanish word sargazzo which signifies kelp . 
This kelp , or berry plant , is the principal formation of this immense bank . 
And this is the reason why these plants unite in the peaceful basin of the Atlantic . 
The only explanation which can be given , he says , seems to me to result from the experience known to all the world . 
In the phenomenon we are considering , the Atlantic is the vase , the Gulf Stream the circular current , and the Sargasso Sea the central point at which the floating bodies unite . 
I share Maury's opinion , and I was able to study the phenomenon in the very midst , where vessels rarely penetrate . 
All the day of the nd of February we passed in the Sargasso Sea , where such fish as are partial to marine plants find abundant nourishment . 
The next , the ocean had returned to its accustomed aspect . 
Captain Nemo evidently intended accomplishing his submarine programme , and I imagined that he intended , after doubling Cape Horn , to return to the Australian seas of the Pacific . 
Ned Land had cause for fear . 
In these large seas , void of islands , we could not attempt to leave the boat . 
Nor had we any means of opposing Captain Nemo's will . 
Our only course was to submit but what we could neither gain by force nor cunning , I liked to think might be obtained by persuasion . 
This voyage ended , would he not consent to restore our liberty , under an oath never to reveal his existence ? an oath of honour which we should have religiously kept . 
But we must consider that delicate question with the Captain . 
I saw little of the Captain he was at work . 
In the library I often found his books left open , especially those on natural history . 
Sometimes I heard the melancholy tones of his organ but only at night , in the midst of the deepest obscurity , when the Nautilus slept upon the deserted ocean . 
During this part of our voyage we sailed whole days on the surface of the waves . 
A few sailing vessels , on the road to India , were making for the Cape of Good Hope . 
Our navigation continued until the th of March that day the Nautilus was employed in taking soundings , which greatly interested me . 
We had then made about , leagues since our departure from the high seas of the Pacific . 
The bearings gave us S. lat . 
It was the same water in which Captain Denham of the Herald sounded , fathoms without finding the bottom . 
There , too , Lieutenant Parker , of the American frigate Congress , could not touch the bottom with , fathoms . 
Captain Nemo intended seeking the bottom of the ocean by a diagonal sufficiently lengthened by means of lateral planes placed at an angle of with the water line of the Nautilus . 
Then the screw set to work at its maximum speed , its four blades beating the waves with in describable force . 
Under this powerful pressure , the hull of the Nautilus quivered like a sonorous chord and sank regularly under the water . 
The Nautilus descended still lower , in spite of the great pressure . 
I felt the steel plates tremble at the fastenings of the bolts its bars bent , its partitions groaned the windows of the saloon seemed to curve under the pressure of the waters . 
And this firm structure would doubtless have yielded , if , as its Captain had said , it had not been capable of resistance like a solid block . 
, and the sides of the Nautilus then bore a pressure of , atmospheres , that is to say , , lb . 
to each square two fifths of an inch of its surface . 
What a situation to be in ! I exclaimed . 
What do you mean by those words ? I mean to say that nothing is easier than to make a photographic view of this submarine region . 
I had not time to express my surprise at this new proposition , when , at Captain Nemo's call , an objective was brought into the saloon . 
But , the operation being over , Captain Nemo said , Let us go up we must not abuse our position , nor expose the Nautilus too long to such great pressure . 
Go up again ! I exclaimed . 
I had not time to understand why the Captain cautioned me thus , when I was thrown forward on to the carpet . 
CHAPTER XII CACHALOTS AND WHALES During the nights of the th and th of March , the Nautilus returned to its southerly course . 
He did nothing of the kind , but continued on his way to the southern regions . 
Where was he going to ? To the pole ? It was madness ! I began to think that the Captain's temerity justified Ned Land's fears . 
For some time past the Canadian had not spoken to me of his projects of flight he was less communicative , almost silent . 
I could see that this lengthened imprisonment was weighing upon him , and I felt that rage was burning within him . 
When he met the Captain , his eyes lit up with suppressed anger and I feared that his natural violence would lead him into some extreme . 
That day , the th of March , Conseil and he came to me in my room . 
I inquired the cause of their visit . 
A simple question to ask you , sir , replied the Canadian . 
How many men are there on board the Nautilus , do you think ? I cannot tell , my friend . 
I should say that its working does not require a large crew . 
Certainly , under existing conditions , ten men , at the most , ought to be enough . 
Well , why should there be any more ? Why ? I replied , looking fixedly at Ned Land , whose meaning was easy to guess . 
Perhaps so , said Conseil but , in any case , the Nautilus can only contain a certain number of men . 
Conseil had not finished the sentence before I saw what he was driving at . 
I understand , said I but that calculation , though simple enough , can give but a very uncertain result . 
Never mind , said Ned Land urgently . 
Here it is , then , said I. In one hour each man consumes the oxygen contained in twenty gallons of air and in twenty four , that contained in gallons . 
We must , therefore find how many times gallons of air the Nautilus contains . 
Just so , said Conseil . 
Which means to say , strictly speaking , that the air contained in the Nautilus would suffice for men for twenty four hours . 
Six hundred and twenty five ! repeated Ned . 
But remember that all of us , passengers , sailors , and officers included , would not form a tenth part of that number . 
Still too many for three men , murmured Conseil . 
The Canadian shook his head , passed his hand across his forehead , and left the room without answering . 
Will you allow me to make one observation , sir ? said Conseil . 
Poor Ned is longing for everything that he can not have . 
His past life is always present to him everything that we are forbidden he regrets . 
His head is full of old recollections . 
And we must understand him . 
What has he to do here ? Nothing he is not learned like you , sir and has not the same taste for the beauties of the sea that we have . 
He would risk everything to be able to go once more into a tavern in his own country . 
Certainly the monotony on board must seem intolerable to the Canadian , accustomed as he was to a life of liberty and activity . 
Events were rare which could rouse him to any show of spirit but that day an event did happen which recalled the bright days of the harpooner . 
We were seated on the platform , with a quiet sea . 
The month of October in those latitudes gave us some lovely autumnal days . 
It was the Canadian he could not be mistaken who signalled a whale on the eastern horizon . 
Looking attentively , one might see its black back rise and fall with the waves five miles from the Nautilus . 
Ah ! exclaimed Ned Land , if I was on board a whaler , now such a meeting would give me pleasure . 
It is one of large size . 
Then the southern whale is still unknown to you . 
It is the Greenland whale you have hunted up to this time , and that would not risk passing through the warm waters of the equator . 
Whales are localised , according to their kinds , in certain seas which they never leave . 
In that case , as I have never fished in these seas , I do not know the kind of whale frequenting them ! I have told you , Ned . 
A greater reason for making their acquaintance , said Conseil . 
Look ! look ! exclaimed the Canadian , they approach they aggravate me they know that I cannot get at them ! Ned stamped his feet . 
His hand trembled , as he grasped an imaginary harpoon . 
Are these cetaceans as large as those of the northern seas ? asked he . 
Because I have seen large whales , sir , whales measuring a hundred feet . 
I have even been told that those of Hullamoch and Umgallick , of the Aleutian Islands , are sometimes a hundred and fifty feet long . 
That seems to me exaggeration . 
These creatures are generally much smaller than the Greenland whale . 
this paragraph has been edited Ah ! exclaimed the Canadian , whose eyes had never left the ocean , they are coming nearer they are in the same water as the Nautilus . 
Then , returning to the conversation , he said You spoke of the cachalot as a small creature . 
I have heard of gigantic ones . 
It is said of some that they cover themselves with seaweed and fucus , and then are taken for islands . 
People encamp upon them , and settle there lights a fire And build houses , said Conseil . 
Yes , joker , said Ned Land . 
And one fine day the creature plunges , carrying with it all the inhabitants to the bottom of the sea . 
Something like the travels of Sinbad the Sailor , I replied , laughing . 
A few minutes afterwards the two appeared together on the platform . 
Captain Nemo watched the troop of cetacea playing on the waters about a mile from the Nautilus . 
They are southern whales , said he there goes the fortune of a whole fleet of whalers . 
But , sir , continued the Canadian , in the Red Sea you allowed us to follow the dugong . 
Then it was to procure fresh meat for my crew . 
Here it would be killing for killing's sake . 
I know that is a privilege reserved for man , but I do not approve of such murderous pastime . 
, your traders do a culpable action , Master Land . 
They have already depopulated the whole of Baffin's Bay , and are annihilating a class of useful animals . 
Leave the unfortunate cetacea alone . 
They have plenty of natural enemies cachalots , swordfish , and sawfish without you troubling them . 
The barbarous and inconsiderate greed of these fishermen will one day cause the disappearance of the last whale in the ocean . 
Ned Land whistled Yankee doodle between his teeth , thrust his hands into his pockets , and turned his back upon us . 
But Captain Nemo watched the troop of cetacea , and , addressing me , said I was right in saying that whales had natural enemies enough , without counting man . 
These will have plenty to do before long . 
Do you see , M. Aronnax , about eight miles to leeward , those blackish moving points ? Yes , Captain , I replied . 
Those are cachalots terrible animals , which I have met in troops of two or three hundred . 
As to those , they are cruel , mischievous creatures they would be right in exterminating them . 
The Canadian turned quickly at the last words . 
Well , Captain , said he , it is still time , in the interest of the whales . 
It is useless to expose one's self , Professor . 
The Nautilus will disperse them . 
It is armed with a steel spur as good as Master Land's harpoon , I imagine . 
The Canadian did not put himself out enough to shrug his shoulders . 
Attack cetacea with blows of a spur ! Who had ever heard of such a thing ? Wait , M. Aronnax , said Captain Nemo . 
We will show you something you have never yet seen . 
We have no pity for these ferocious creatures . 
They are nothing but mouth and teeth . 
Mouth and teeth ! No one could better describe the macrocephalous cachalot , which is sometimes more than seventy five feet long . 
Its enormous head occupies one third of its entire body . 
The cachalot is a disagreeable creature , more tadpole than fish , according to Fredol's description . 
, a failure , and being only able to see with its right eye . 
But the formidable troop was nearing us . 
They had seen the whales and were preparing to attack them . 
There was only just time to go to the help of the whales . 
The Nautilus went under water . 
Soon I felt the beatings of the screw quicken , and our speed increased . 
The battle between the cachalots and the whales had already begun when the Nautilus arrived . 
They did not at first show any fear at the sight of this new monster joining in the conflict . 
But they soon had to guard against its blows . 
What a battle ! The Nautilus was nothing but a formidable harpoon , brandished by the hand of its Captain . 
It hurled itself against the fleshy mass , passing through from one part to the other , leaving behind it two quivering halves of the animal . 
It could not feel the formidable blows from their tails upon its sides , nor the shock which it produced itself , much more . 
For one hour this wholesale massacre continued , from which the cachalots could not escape . 
Several times ten or twelve united tried to crush the Nautilus by their weight . 
From the window we could see their enormous mouths , studded with tusks , and their formidable eyes . 
Ned Land could not contain himself he threatened and swore at them . 
We could feel them clinging to our vessel like dogs worrying a wild boar in a copse . 
At length the mass of cachalots broke up , the waves became quiet , and I felt that we were rising to the surface . 
The panel opened , and we hurried on to the platform . 
The sea was covered with mutilated bodies . 
A formidable explosion could not have divided and torn this fleshy mass with more violence . 
We were floating amid gigantic bodies , bluish on the back and white underneath , covered with enormous protuberances . 
Some terrified cachalots were flying towards the horizon . 
The waves were dyed red for several miles , and the Nautilus floated in a sea of blood Captain Nemo joined us . 
Well , Master Land ? said he . 
Well , sir , replied the Canadian , whose enthusiasm had somewhat calmed it is a terrible spectacle , certainly . 
But I am not a butcher . 
I am a hunter , and I call this a butchery . 
It is a massacre of mischievous creatures , replied the Captain and the Nautilus is not a butcher's knife . 
I like my harpoon better , said the Canadian . 
Every one to his own , answered the Captain , looking fixedly at Ned Land . 
I feared he would commit some act of violence , which would end in sad consequences . 
But his anger was turned by the sight of a whale which the Nautilus had just come up with . 
The creature had not quite escaped from the cachalot's teeth . 
I recognised the southern whale by its flat head , which is entirely black . 
Anatomically , it is distinguished from the white whale and the North Cape whale by the seven cervical vertebrae , and it has two more ribs than its congeners . 
The unfortunate cetacean was lying on its side , riddled with holes from the bites , and quite dead . 
From its mutilated fin still hung a young whale which it could not save from the massacre . 
Its open mouth let the water flow in and out , murmuring like the waves breaking on the shore . 
Captain Nemo steered close to the corpse of the creature . 
The Captain offered me a cup of the milk , which was still warm . 
I could not help showing my repugnance to the drink but he assured me that it was excellent , and not to be distinguished from cow's milk . 
I tasted it , and was of his opinion . 
It was a useful reserve to us , for in the shape of salt butter or cheese it would form an agreeable variety from our ordinary food . 
From that day I noticed with uneasiness that Ned Land's ill will towards Captain Nemo increased , and I resolved to watch the Canadian's gestures closely . 
CHAPTER VIII THE ICEBERG The Nautilus was steadily pursuing its southerly course , following the fiftieth meridian with considerable speed . 
Did he wish to reach the pole ? I did not think so , for every attempt to reach that point had hitherto failed . 
Again , the season was far advanced , for in the Antarctic regions the th of March corresponds with the th of September of northern regions , which begin at the equinoctial season . 
On the th of March I saw floating ice in latitude , merely pale bits of debris from twenty to twenty five feet long , forming banks over which the sea curled . 
The Nautilus remained on the surface of the ocean . 
Ned Land , who had fished in the Arctic Seas , was familiar with its icebergs but Conseil and I admired them for the first time . 
In the atmosphere towards the southern horizon stretched a white dazzling band . 
English whalers have given it the name of ice blink . 
However thick the clouds may be , it is always visible , and announces the presence of an ice pack or bank . 
Accordingly , larger blocks soon appeared , whose brilliancy changed with the caprices of the fog . 
Some of these masses showed green veins , as if long undulating lines had been traced with sulphate of copper others resembled enormous amethysts with the light shining through them . 
Some reflected the light of day upon a thousand crystal facets . 
Others shaded with vivid calcareous reflections resembled a perfect town of marble . 
The more we neared the south the more these floating islands increased both in number and importance . 
But , seeking carefully , Captain Nemo soon found a narrow opening , through which he boldly slipped , knowing , however , that it would close behind him . 
The temperature was very low the thermometer exposed to the air marked or below zero , but we were warmly clad with fur , at the expense of the sea bear and seal . 
The interior of the Nautilus , warmed regularly by its electric apparatus , defied the most intense cold . 
Besides , it would only have been necessary to go some yards beneath the waves to find a more bearable temperature . 
On the th of March we were in the latitude of New Shetland and South Orkney . 
About eight o'clock on the morning of the th of March the Nautilus , following the fifty fifth meridian , cut the Antarctic polar circle . 
Ice surrounded us on all sides , and closed the horizon . 
But Captain Nemo went from one opening to another , still going higher . 
I cannot express my astonishment at the beauties of these new regions . 
The ice took most surprising forms . 
Here the grouping formed an oriental town , with innumerable mosques and minarets there a fallen city thrown to the earth , as it were , by some convulsion of nature . 
The whole aspect was constantly changed by the oblique rays of the sun , or lost in the greyish fog amidst hurricanes of snow . 
Detonations and falls were heard on all sides , great overthrows of icebergs , which altered the whole landscape like a diorama . 
Often seeing no exit , I thought we were definitely prisoners but , instinct guiding him at the slightest indication , Captain Nemo would discover a new pass . 
On the th of March , however , the ice fields absolutely blocked our road . 
It was not the iceberg itself , as yet , but vast fields cemented by the cold . 
But this obstacle could not stop Captain Nemo he hurled himself against it with frightful violence . 
The Nautilus entered the brittle mass like a wedge , and split it with frightful crackings . 
It was the battering ram of the ancients hurled by infinite strength . 
The ice , thrown high in the air , fell like hail around us . 
Violent gales assailed us at this time , accompanied by thick fogs , through which , from one end of the platform to the other , we could see nothing . 
The wind blew sharply from all parts of the compass , and the snow lay in such hard heaps that we had to break it with blows of a pickaxe . 
The temperature was always at below zero every outward part of the Nautilus was covered with ice . 
A rigged vessel would have been entangled in the blocked up gorges . 
A vessel without sails , with electricity for its motive power , and wanting no coal , could alone brave such high latitudes . 
At length , on the th of March , after many useless assaults , the Nautilus was positively blocked . 
It was no longer either streams , packs , or ice fields , but an interminable and immovable barrier , formed by mountains soldered together . 
An iceberg ! said the Canadian to me . 
I knew that to Ned Land , as well as to all other navigators who had preceded us , this was an inevitable obstacle . 
The sun appearing for an instant at noon , Captain Nemo took an observation as near as possible , which gave our situation at long . 
We had advanced one degree more in this Antarctic region . 
Of the liquid surface of the sea there was no longer a glimpse . 
Under the spur of the Nautilus lay stretched a vast plain , entangled with confused blocks . 
And over this desolate face of nature a stern silence reigned , scarcely broken by the flapping of the wings of petrels and puffins . 
Everything was frozen even the noise . 
The Nautilus was then obliged to stop in its adventurous course amid these fields of ice . 
In spite of our efforts , in spite of the powerful means employed to break up the ice , the Nautilus remained immovable . 
I was obliged to admit that Captain Nemo was more than imprudent . 
I was on the platform at that moment . 
Ah ! sir , said Captain Nemo , in an ironical tone , you will always be the same . 
You see nothing but difficulties and obstacles . 
I affirm that not only can the Nautilus disengage itself , but also that it can go further still . 
Further to the South ? I asked , looking at the Captain . 
Yes , sir it shall go to the pole . 
To the pole ! I exclaimed , unable to repress a gesture of incredulity . 
Yes , replied the Captain , coldly , to the Antarctic pole to that unknown point from whence springs every meridian of the globe . 
You know whether I can do as I please with the Nautilus ! Yes , I knew that . 
I knew that this man was bold , even to rashness . 
Where others have failed , I will not fail . 
I have never yet led my Nautilus so far into southern seas but , I repeat , it shall go further yet . 
I can well believe you , Captain , said I , in a slightly ironical tone . 
I understood the wonderful qualities of the Nautilus were going to serve us in this superhuman enterprise . 
I see we are beginning to understand one another , sir , said the Captain , half smiling . 
You begin to see the possibility I should say the success of this attempt . 
That which is impossible for an ordinary vessel is easy to the Nautilus . 
Very nearly , sir for one foot of iceberg above the sea there are three below it . 
If these ice mountains are not more than feet above the surface , they are not more than beneath . 
And what are feet to the Nautilus ? Nothing , sir . 
It could even seek at greater depths that uniform temperature of sea water , and there brave with impunity the thirty or forty degrees of surface cold . 
Just so , sir just so , I replied , getting animated . 
The only difficulty , continued Captain Nemo , is that of remaining several days without renewing our provision of air . 
Is that all ? The Nautilus has vast reservoirs we can fill them , and they will supply us with all the oxygen we want . 
Well thought of , M. Aronnax , replied the Captain , smiling . 
But , not wishing you to accuse me of rashness , I will first give you all my objections . 
Have you any more to make ? Only one . 
It is possible , if the sea exists at the South Pole , that it may be covered and , consequently , we shall be unable to come to the surface . 
Ah ! sir , you are full of ideas to day . 
I think so too , M. Aronnax , replied Captain Nemo . 
The powerful pumps of the Nautilus were working air into the reservoirs and storing it at high pressure . 
About four o'clock , Captain Nemo announced the closing of the panels on the platform . 
I threw one last look at the massive iceberg which we were going to cross . 
The weather was clear , the atmosphere pure enough , the cold very great , being below zero but , the wind having gone down , this temperature was not so unbearable . 
About ten men mounted the sides of the Nautilus , armed with pickaxes to break the ice around the vessel , which was soon free . 
The operation was quickly performed , for the fresh ice was still very thin . 
The usual reservoirs were filled with the newly liberated water , and the Nautilus soon descended . 
I had taken my place with Conseil in the saloon through the open window we could see the lower beds of the Southern Ocean . 
The thermometer went up , the needle of the compass deviated on the dial . 
At about feet , as Captain Nemo had foreseen , we were floating beneath the undulating bottom of the iceberg . 
But the Nautilus went lower still it went to the depth of four hundred fathoms . 
The temperature of the water at the surface showed twelve degrees , it was now only ten we had gained two . 
I need not say the temperature of the Nautilus was raised by its heating apparatus to a much higher degree every manoeuvre was accomplished with wonderful precision . 
We shall pass it , if you please , sir , said Conseil . 
I believe we shall , I said , in a tone of firm conviction . 
In this open sea , the Nautilus had taken its course direct to the pole , without leaving the fifty second meridian . 
From to , twenty two degrees and a half of latitude remained to travel that is , about five hundred leagues . 
The Nautilus kept up a mean speed of twenty six miles an hour the speed of an express train . 
If that was kept up , in forty hours we should reach the pole . 
For a part of the night the novelty of the situation kept us at the window . 
Our pace was rapid we could feel it by the quivering of the long steel body . 
About two in the morning I took some hours' repose , and Conseil did the same . 
In crossing the waist I did not meet Captain Nemo I supposed him to be in the pilot's cage . 
The next morning , the th of March , I took my post once more in the saloon . 
The electric log told me that the speed of the Nautilus had been slackened . 
It was then going towards the surface but prudently emptying its reservoirs very slowly . 
We had in deed struck , to use a sea expression , but in an inverse sense , and at a thousand feet deep . 
This would give three thousand feet of ice above us one thousand being above the water mark . 
The iceberg was then higher than at its borders not a very reassuring fact . 
Several times that day the Nautilus tried again , and every time it struck the wall which lay like a ceiling above it . 
Sometimes it met with but yards , only of which rose above the surface . 
It was twice the height it was when the Nautilus had gone under the waves . 
I carefully noted the different depths , and thus obtained a submarine profile of the chain as it was developed under the water . 
That night no change had taken place in our situation . 
My sleep was painful that night hope and fear besieged me by turns I rose several times . 
The groping of the Nautilus continued . 
About three in the morning , I noticed that the lower surface of the iceberg was only about fifty feet deep . 
One hundred and fifty feet now separated us from the surface of the waters . 
The iceberg was by degrees becoming an ice field , the mountain a plain . 
My eyes never left the manometer . 
We were still rising diagonally to the surface , which sparkled under the electric rays . 
The iceberg was stretching both above and beneath into lengthening slopes mile after mile it was getting thinner . 
At length , at six in the morning of that memorable day , the th of March , the door of the saloon opened , and Captain Nemo appeared . 
The sea is open ! ! was all he said . 
CHAPTER XIV THE SOUTH POLE I rushed on to the platform . 
The thermometer marked C. above zero . 
It was comparatively spring , shut up as we were behind this iceberg , whose lengthened mass was dimly seen on our northern horizon . 
Are we at the pole ? I asked the Captain , with a beating heart . 
I do not know , he replied . 
At noon I will take our bearings . 
But will the sun show himself through this fog ? said I , looking at the leaden sky . 
However little it shows , it will be enough , replied the Captain . 
About ten miles south a solitary island rose to a height of one hundred and four yards . 
We made for it , but carefully , for the sea might be strewn with banks . 
One hour afterwards we had reached it , two hours later we had made the round of it . 
It measured four or five miles in circumference . 
A narrow canal separated it from a considerable stretch of land , perhaps a continent , for we could not see its limits . 
The existence of this land seemed to give some colour to Maury's theory . 
From this fact he has drawn the conclusion that the Antarctic Circle encloses considerable continents , as icebergs cannot form in open sea , but only on the coasts . 
According to these calculations , the mass of ice surrounding the southern pole forms a vast cap , the circumference of which must be , at least , , miles . 
But the Nautilus , for fear of running aground , had stopped about three cable lengths from a strand over which reared a superb heap of rocks . 
The boat was launched the Captain , two of his men , bearing instruments , Conseil , and myself were in it . 
It was ten in the morning . 
I had not seen Ned Land . 
Doubtless the Canadian did not wish to admit the presence of the South Pole . 
A few strokes of the oar brought us to the sand , where we ran ashore . 
Conseil was going to jump on to the land , when I held him back . 
Sir , said I to Captain Nemo , to you belongs the honour of first setting foot on this land . 
Saying this , he jumped lightly on to the sand . 
His heart beat with emotion . 
After five minutes passed in this ecstasy , he turned to us . 
When you like , sir . 
I landed , followed by Conseil , leaving the two men in the boat . 
For a long way the soil was composed of a reddish sandy stone , something like crushed brick , scoriae , streams of lava , and pumice stones . 
One could not mistake its volcanic origin . 
We know that in those Antarctic countries , James Ross found two craters , the Erebus and Terror , in full activity , on the th meridian , latitude . 
The vegetation of this desolate continent seemed to me much restricted . 
These constituted the meagre flora of this region . 
The shore was strewn with molluscs , little mussels , and limpets . 
There appeared on the high bottoms some coral shrubs , of the kind which , according to James Ross , live in the Antarctic seas to the depth of more than , yards . 
Then there were little kingfishers and starfish studding the soil . 
But where life abounded most was in the air . 
Captain Nemo had some hundreds hunted . 
But the fog did not lift , and at eleven the sun had not yet shown itself . 
Its absence made me uneasy . 
Without it no observations were possible . 
He seemed impatient and vexed . 
But what was to be done ? This rash and powerful man could not command the sun as he did the sea . 
Noon arrived without the orb of day showing itself for an instant . 
We could not even tell its position behind the curtain of fog and soon the fog turned to snow . 
Till to morrow , said the Captain , quietly , and we returned to the Nautilus amid these atmospheric disturbances . 
The tempest of snow continued till the next day . 
It was impossible to remain on the platform . 
The next day , the th of March , the snow had ceased . 
The cold was a little greater , the thermometer showing below zero . 
The fog was rising , and I hoped that that day our observations might be taken . 
Captain Nemo not having yet appeared , the boat took Conseil and myself to land . 
The soil was still of the same volcanic nature everywhere were traces of lava , scoriae , and basalt but the crater which had vomited them I could not see . 
Here , as lower down , this continent was alive with myriads of birds . 
But their rule was now divided with large troops of sea mammals , looking at us with their soft eyes . 
There were several kinds of seals , some stretched on the earth , some on flakes of ice , many going in and out of the sea . 
They did not flee at our approach , never having had anything to do with man and I reckoned that there were provisions there for hundreds of vessels . 
Sir , said Conseil , will you tell me the names of these creatures ? They are seals and morses . 
It was now eight in the morning . 
Four hours remained to us before the sun could be observed with advantage . 
I directed our steps towards a vast bay cut in the steep granite shore . 
I should say that , in the water , which is their element the spine of these creatures is flexible with smooth and close skin and webbed feet they swim admirably . 
In resting on the earth they take the most graceful attitudes . 
I made Conseil notice the considerable development of the lobes of the brain in these interesting cetaceans . 
The greater part of them slept on the rocks or on the sand . 
Amongst them glided sea elephants , a kind of seal , with short , flexible trunks . 
The giants of this species measured twenty feet round and ten yards and a half in length but they did not move as we approached . 
These creatures are not dangerous ? asked Conseil . 
No not unless you attack them . 
When they have to defend their young their rage is terrible , and it is not uncommon for them to break the fishing boats to pieces . 
They are quite right , said Conseil . 
I do not say they are not . 
Two miles farther on we were stopped by the promontory which shelters the bay from the southerly winds . 
Beyond it we heard loud bellowings such as a troop of ruminants would produce . 
Good ! said Conseil a concert of bulls ! No a concert of morses . 
They are fighting ! They are either fighting or playing . 
We now began to climb the blackish rocks , amid unforeseen stumbles , and over stones which the ice made slippery . 
More than once I rolled over at the expense of my loins . 
Arrived at the upper ridge of the promontory , I saw a vast white plain covered with morses . 
They were playing amongst themselves , and what we heard were bellowings of pleasure , not of anger . 
As I passed these curious animals I could examine them leisurely , for they did not move . 
Their skins were thick and rugged , of a yellowish tint , approaching to red their hair was short and scant . 
Some of them were four yards and a quarter long . 
Quieter and less timid than their cousins of the north , they did not , like them , place sentinels round the outskirts of their encampment . 
After examining this city of morses , I began to think of returning . 
It was eleven o'clock , and , if Captain Nemo found the conditions favourable for observations , I wished to be present at the operation . 
We followed a narrow pathway running along the summit of the steep shore . 
At half past eleven we had reached the place where we landed . 
The boat had run aground , bringing the Captain . 
I saw him standing on a block of basalt , his instruments near him , his eyes fixed on the northern horizon , near which the sun was then describing a lengthened curve . 
I took my place beside him , and waited without speaking . 
Noon arrived , and , as before , the sun did not appear . 
If not accomplished to morrow , we must give up all idea of taking any . 
We were indeed exactly at the th of March . 
To morrow , the st , would be the equinox the sun would disappear behind the horizon for six months , and with its disappearance the long polar night would begin . 
Since the September equinox it had emerged from the northern horizon , rising by lengthened spirals up to the st of December . 
At this period , the summer solstice of the northern regions , it had begun to descend and to morrow was to shed its last rays upon them . 
I communicated my fears and observations to Captain Nemo . 
You are right , M. Aronnax , said he if to morrow I cannot take the altitude of the sun , I shall not be able to do it for six months . 
But precisely because chance has led me into these seas on the st of March , my bearings will be easy to take , if at twelve we can see the sun . 
What will you do then ? I shall only use my chronometer , replied Captain Nemo . 
Just so , said I. But this statement is not mathematically correct , because the equinox does not necessarily begin at noon . 
Very likely , sir but the error will not be a hundred yards and we do not want more . 
Till to morrow , then ! Captain Nemo returned on board . 
Conseil and I remained to survey the shore , observing and studying until five o'clock . 
Then I went to bed , not , however , without invoking , like the Indian , the favour of the radiant orb . 
The next day , the st of March , at five in the morning , I mounted the platform . 
I found Captain Nemo there . 
The weather is lightening a little , said he . 
After breakfast we will go on shore and choose a post for observation . 
That point settled , I sought Ned Land . 
I wanted to take him with me . 
But the obstinate Canadian refused , and I saw that his taciturnity and his bad humour grew day by day . 
After all , I was not sorry for his obstinacy under the circumstances . 
Indeed , there were too many seals on shore , and we ought not to lay such temptation in this unreflecting fisherman's way . 
Breakfast over , we went on shore . 
The Nautilus had gone some miles further up in the night . 
It was a whole league from the coast , above which reared a sharp peak about five hundred yards high . 
The boat took with me Captain Nemo , two men of the crew , and the instruments , which consisted of a chronometer , a telescope , and a barometer . 
This powerful creature is heard a long way off when he throws to a great height columns of air and vapour , which look like whirlwinds of smoke . 
I also noticed large medusae floating between the reeds . 
At nine we landed the sky was brightening , the clouds were flying to the south , and the fog seemed to be leaving the cold surface of the waters . 
Captain Nemo went towards the peak , which he doubtless meant to be his observatory . 
It was a painful ascent over the sharp lava and the pumice stones , in an atmosphere often impregnated with a sulphurous smell from the smoking cracks . 
For a man unaccustomed to walk on land , the Captain climbed the steep slopes with an agility I never saw equalled and which a hunter would have envied . 
We were two hours getting to the summit of this peak , which was half porphyry and half basalt . 
From thence we looked upon a vast sea which , towards the north , distinctly traced its boundary line upon the sky . 
At our feet lay fields of dazzling whiteness . 
Over our heads a pale azure , free from fog . 
To the north the disc of the sun seemed like a ball of fire , already horned by the cutting of the horizon . 
From the bosom of the water rose sheaves of liquid jets by hundreds . 
In the distance lay the Nautilus like a cetacean asleep on the water . 
Behind us , to the south and east , an immense country and a chaotic heap of rocks and ice , the limits of which were not visible . 
On arriving at the summit Captain Nemo carefully took the mean height of the barometer , for he would have to consider that in taking his observations . 
If the disappearance of the half disc of the sun coincided with twelve o'clock on the chronometer , we were at the pole itself . 
The South Pole ! replied Captain Nemo , in a grave voice , handing me the glass , which showed the orb cut in exactly equal parts by the horizon . 
I looked at the last rays crowning the peak , and the shadows mounting by degrees up its slopes . 
In whose name , Captain ? In my own , sir ! Saying which , Captain Nemo unfurled a black banner , bearing an N in gold quartered on its bunting . 
The last gleams of twilight were melting into night . 
The cold was great , the constellations shone with wonderful intensity . 
In the zenith glittered that wondrous Southern Cross the polar bear of Antarctic regions . 
The thermometer showed below zero , and when the wind freshened it was most biting . 
Flakes of ice increased on the open water . 
The sea seemed everywhere alike . 
Numerous blackish patches spread on the surface , showing the formation of fresh ice . 
Evidently the southern basin , frozen during the six winter months , was absolutely inaccessible . 
What became of the whales in that time ? Doubtless they went beneath the icebergs , seeking more practicable seas . 
As to the seals and morses , accustomed to live in a hard climate , they remained on these icy shores . 
These creatures have the instinct to break holes in the ice field and to keep them open . 
To these holes they come for breath when the birds , driven away by the cold , have emigrated to the north , these sea mammals remain sole masters of the polar continent . 
But the reservoirs were filling with water , and the Nautilus was slowly descending . 
At , feet deep it stopped its screw beat the waves , and it advanced straight towards the north at a speed of fifteen miles an hour . 
Towards night it was already floating under the immense body of the iceberg . 
At three in the morning I was awakened by a violent shock . 
I sat up in my bed and listened in the darkness , when I was thrown into the middle of the room . 
The Nautilus , after having struck , had rebounded violently . 
I groped along the partition , and by the staircase to the saloon , which was lit by the luminous ceiling . 
Fortunately the windows were firmly set , and had held fast . 
The Nautilus was lying on its starboard side perfectly motionless . 
I heard footsteps , and a confusion of voices but Captain Nemo did not appear . 
As I was leaving the saloon , Ned Land and Conseil entered . 
What is the matter ? said I , at once . 
I came to ask you , sir , replied Conseil . 
But , I asked , has she at least come to the surface of the sea ? We do not know , said Conseil . 
It is easy to decide , I answered . 
To my great surprise , it showed a depth of more than fathoms . 
What does that mean ? I exclaimed . 
We must ask Captain Nemo , said Conseil . 
But where shall we find him ? said Ned Land . 
Follow me , said I , to my companions . 
There was no one in the library . 
At the centre staircase , by the berths of the ship's crew , there was no one . 
I thought that Captain Nemo must be in the pilot's cage . 
It was best to wait . 
We all returned to the saloon . 
For twenty minutes we remained thus , trying to hear the slightest noise which might be made on board the Nautilus , when Captain Nemo entered . 
He seemed not to see us his face , generally so impassive , showed signs of uneasiness . 
He watched the compass silently , then the manometer and , going to the planisphere , placed his finger on a spot representing the southern seas . 
Is the danger immediate ? No. The Nautilus has stranded ? Yes . 
And this has happened how ? From a caprice of nature , not from the ignorance of man . 
Not a mistake has been made in the working . 
But we cannot prevent equilibrium from producing its effects . 
We may brave human laws , but we cannot resist natural ones . 
Captain Nemo had chosen a strange moment for uttering this philosophical reflection . 
On the whole , his answer helped me little . 
May I ask , sir , the cause of this accident ? An enormous block of ice , a whole mountain , has turned over , he replied . 
When icebergs are undermined at their base by warmer water or reiterated shocks their centre of gravity rises , and the whole thing turns over . 
But can we not get the Nautilus off by emptying its reservoirs , that it might regain its equilibrium ? That , sir , is being done at this moment . 
You can hear the pump working . 
Indeed , the Nautilus still held the same position to starboard doubtless it would right itself when the block stopped . 
But at this moment who knows if we may not be frightfully crushed between the two glassy surfaces ? I reflected on all the consequences of our position . 
Captain Nemo never took his eyes off the manometer . 
Since the fall of the iceberg , the Nautilus had risen about a hundred and fifty feet , but it still made the same angle with the perpendicular . 
Suddenly a slight movement was felt in the hold . 
Evidently it was righting a little . 
Things hanging in the saloon were sensibly returning to their normal position . 
The partitions were nearing the upright . 
With beating hearts we watched and felt the straightening . 
The boards became horizontal under our feet . 
At last we have righted ! I exclaimed . 
Yes , said Captain Nemo , going to the door of the saloon . 
But are we floating ? I asked . 
Certainly , he replied since the reservoirs are not empty and , when empty , the Nautilus must rise to the surface of the sea . 
We were in open sea but at a distance of about ten yards , on either side of the Nautilus , rose a dazzling wall of ice . 
Above and beneath the same wall . 
Above , because the lower surface of the iceberg stretched over us like an immense ceiling . 
Beneath , because the overturned block , having slid by degrees , had found a resting place on the lateral walls , which kept it in that position . 
The Nautilus was really imprisoned in a perfect tunnel of ice more than twenty yards in breadth , filled with quiet water . 
It was easy to get out of it by going either forward or backward , and then make a free passage under the iceberg , some hundreds of yards deeper . 
The luminous ceiling had been extinguished , but the saloon was still resplendent with intense light . 
It was the powerful reflection from the glass partition sent violently back to the sheets of the lantern . 
Here and there were opal shades of wonderful softness , running through bright spots like diamonds of fire , the brilliancy of which the eye could not bear . 
The power of the lantern seemed increased a hundredfold , like a lamp through the lenticular plates of a first class lighthouse . 
How beautiful ! how beautiful ! cried Conseil . 
Yes , I said , it is a wonderful sight . 
Is it not , Ned ? Yes , confound it ! Yes , answered Ned Land , it is superb ! I am mad at being obliged to admit it . 
No one has ever seen anything like it but the sight may cost us dear . 
And , if I must say all , I think we are seeing here things which God never intended man to see . 
Ned was right , it was too beautiful . 
Suddenly a cry from Conseil made me turn . 
What is it ? I asked . 
Shut your eyes , sir ! Do not look , sir ! Saying which , Conseil clapped his hands over his eyes . 
But what is the matter , my boy ? I am dazzled , blinded . 
My eyes turned involuntarily towards the glass , but I could not stand the fire which seemed to devour them . 
I understood what had happened . 
The Nautilus had put on full speed . 
All the quiet lustre of the ice walls was at once changed into flashes of lightning . 
The fire from these myriads of diamonds was blinding . 
It required some time to calm our troubled looks . 
At last the hands were taken down . 
Faith , I should never have believed it , said Conseil . 
It was then five in the morning and at that moment a shock was felt at the bows of the Nautilus . 
I knew that its spur had struck a block of ice . 
It must have been a false manoeuvre , for this submarine tunnel , obstructed by blocks , was not very easy navigation . 
I thought that Captain Nemo , by changing his course , would either turn these obstacles or else follow the windings of the tunnel . 
In any case , the road before us could not be entirely blocked . 
But , contrary to my expectations , the Nautilus took a decided retrograde motion . 
We are going backwards ? said Conseil . 
This end of the tunnel can have no egress . 
And then ? Then , said I , the working is easy . 
We must go back again , and go out at the southern opening . 
In speaking thus , I wished to appear more confident than I really was . 
But the retrograde motion of the Nautilus was increasing and , reversing the screw , it carried us at great speed . 
It will be a hindrance , said Ned . 
I soon threw myself on an ottoman , and took a book , which my eyes overran mechanically . 
A quarter of an hour after , Conseil , approaching me , said , Is what you are reading very interesting , sir ? Very interesting ! I replied . 
I should think so , sir . 
It is your own book you are reading . 
My book ? And indeed I was holding in my hand the work on the Great Submarine Depths . 
I did not even dream of it . 
I closed the book and returned to my walk . 
Ned and Conseil rose to go . 
Stay here , my friends , said I , detaining them . 
Let us remain together until we are out of this block . 
As you please , sir , Conseil replied . 
I often looked at the instruments hanging from the partition . 
But Captain Nemo knew that he could not hasten too much , and that minutes were worth ages to us . 
At twenty five minutes past eight a second shock took place , this time from behind . 
My companions were close by my side . 
Our looks expressed our feelings better than words . 
At this moment the Captain entered the saloon . 
I went up to him . 
Our course is barred southward ? I asked . 
The iceberg has shifted and closed every outlet . 
We are blocked up then ? Yes . 
CHAPTER XVI WANT OF AIR Thus around the Nautilus , above and below , was an impenetrable wall of ice . 
We were prisoners to the iceberg . 
His countenance had resumed its habitual imperturbability . 
Gentlemen , he said calmly , there are two ways of dying in the circumstances in which we are placed . 
The first is to be crushed the second is to die of suffocation . 
I do not speak of the possibility of dying of hunger , for the supply of provisions in the Nautilus will certainly last longer than we shall . 
Let us , then , calculate our chances . 
As to suffocation , Captain , I replied , that is not to be feared , because our reservoirs are full . 
Just so but they will only yield two days' supply of air . 
Now , for thirty six hours we have been hidden under the water , and already the heavy atmosphere of the Nautilus requires renewal . 
In forty eight hours our reserve will be exhausted . 
Well , Captain , can we be delivered before forty eight hours ? We will attempt it , at least , by piercing the wall that surrounds us . 
On which side ? Sound will tell us . 
I am going to run the Nautilus aground on the lower bank , and my men will attack the iceberg on the side that is least thick . 
Soon I discovered by a hissing noise that the water was entering the reservoirs . 
The Nautilus sank slowly , and rested on the ice at a depth of yards , the depth at which the lower bank was immersed . 
My friends , I said , our situation is serious , but I rely on your courage and energy . 
Sir , replied the Canadian , I am ready to do anything for the general safety . 
Good ! Ned , and I held out my hand to the Canadian . 
He will not refuse your help . 
Come , Ned ! I led him to the room where the crew of the Nautilus were putting on their cork jackets . 
I told the Captain of Ned's proposal , which he accepted . 
The Canadian put on his sea costume , and was ready as soon as his companions . 
Some instants after , we saw a dozen of the crew set foot on the bank of ice , and among them Ned Land , easily known by his stature . 
Captain Nemo was with them . 
Before proceeding to dig the walls , he took the soundings , to be sure of working in the right direction . 
Long sounding lines were sunk in the side walls , but after fifteen yards they were again stopped by the thick wall . 
It was useless to attack it on the ceiling like surface , since the iceberg itself measured more than yards in height . 
Captain Nemo then sounded the lower surface . 
There ten yards of wall separated us from the water , so great was the thickness of the ice field . 
It was necessary , therefore , to cut from it a piece equal in extent to the waterline of the Nautilus . 
There were about , cubic yards to detach , so as to dig a hole by which we could descend to the ice field . 
The work had begun immediately and carried on with indefatigable energy . 
Instead of digging round the Nautilus which would have involved greater difficulty , Captain Nemo had an immense trench made at eight yards from the port quarter . 
Then the men set to work simultaneously with their screws on several points of its circumference . 
Presently the pickaxe attacked this compact matter vigorously , and large blocks were detached from the mass . 
But that mattered little , so long as the lower part grew thinner . 
After two hours' hard work , Ned Land came in exhausted . 
He and his comrades were replaced by new workers , whom Conseil and I joined . 
The second lieutenant of the Nautilus superintended us . 
The water seemed singularly cold , but I soon got warm handling the pickaxe . 
My movements were free enough , although they were made under a pressure of thirty atmospheres . 
The air had not been renewed for forty eight hours , and its vivifying qualities were considerably enfeebled . 
But everyone had looked the danger in the face , and each was determined to do his duty to the last . 
As I expected , during the night a new block a yard square was carried away , and still further sank the immense hollow . 
The beds of water farthest from the trench , that were not warmed by the men's work , showed a tendency to solidification . 
What was the good of damping the energy they displayed in the painful work of escape ? But when I went on board again , I told Captain Nemo of this grave complication . 
I know it , he said , in that calm tone which could counteract the most terrible apprehensions . 
It is one danger more but I see no way of escaping it the only chance of safety is to go quicker than solidification . 
We must be beforehand with it , that is all . 
On this day for several hours I used my pickaxe vigorously . 
The work kept me up . 
Towards evening the trench was dug one yard deeper . 
We had plenty of oxygen all this water contained a considerable quantity , and by dissolving it with our powerful piles , it would restore the vivifying fluid . 
Now this substance was wanting on board , and nothing could replace it . 
The next day , March th , I resumed my miner's work in beginning the fifth yard . 
The side walls and the lower surface of the iceberg thickened visibly . 
It was evident that they would meet before the Nautilus was able to disengage itself . 
Despair seized me for an instant my pickaxe nearly fell from my hands . 
I touched his hand and showed him the walls of our prison . 
The wall to port had advanced to at least four yards from the hull of the Nautilus . 
The Captain understood me , and signed me to follow him . 
I took off my cork jacket and accompanied him into the drawing room . 
M. Aronnax , we must attempt some desperate means , or we shall be sealed up in this solidified water as in cement . 
But , whatever resistance to crushing the Nautilus possesses , it could not support this terrible pressure , and would be flattened like an iron plate . 
I know it , sir . 
Therefore we must not reckon on the aid of nature , but on our own exertions . 
We must stop this solidification . 
Not only will the side walls be pressed together but there is not ten feet of water before or behind the Nautilus . 
The congelation gains on us on all sides . 
How long will the air in the reservoirs last for us to breathe on board ? The Captain looked in my face . 
After to morrow they will be empty ! A cold sweat came over me . 
However , ought I to have been astonished at the answer ? On March , the Nautilus was in the open polar seas . 
For five days we had lived on the reserve on board . 
And what was left of the respirable air must be kept for the workers . 
Even now , as I write , my recollection is still so vivid that an involuntary terror seizes me and my lungs seem to be without air . 
Meanwhile , Captain Nemo reflected silently , and evidently an idea had struck him but he seemed to reject it . 
At last , these words escaped his lips Boiling water ! he muttered . 
Boiling water ? I cried . 
We are enclosed in a space that is relatively confined . 
Would not jets of boiling water , constantly injected by the pumps , raise the temperature in this part and stay the congelation ? Let us try it , I said resolutely . 
Let us try it , Professor . 
The thermometer then stood at outside . 
Captain Nemo took me to the galleys , where the vast distillatory machines stood that furnished the drinkable water by evaporation . 
They filled these with water , and all the electric heat from the piles was thrown through the worms bathed in the liquid . 
In a few minutes this water reached . 
It was directed towards the pumps , while fresh water replaced it in proportion . 
The heat developed by the troughs was such that cold water , drawn up from the sea after only having gone through the machines , came boiling into the body of the pump . 
The injection was begun , and three hours after the thermometer marked below zero outside . 
Two hours later the thermometer only marked . 
We shall succeed , I said to the Captain , after having anxiously watched the result of the operation . 
I think , he answered , that we shall not be crushed . 
We have no more suffocation to fear . 
During the night the temperature of the water rose to below zero . 
The injections could not carry it to a higher point . 
But , as the congelation of the sea water produces at least , I was at least reassured against the dangers of solidification . 
The next day , March th , six yards of ice had been cleared , twelve feet only remaining to be cleared away . 
There was yet forty eight hours' work . 
The air could not be renewed in the interior of the Nautilus . 
And this day would make it worse . 
An intolerable weight oppressed me . 
Towards three o'clock in the evening this feeling rose to a violent degree . 
My lungs panted as they inhaled this burning fluid , which became rarefied more and more . 
A moral torpor took hold of me . 
I was powerless , almost unconscious . 
My brave Conseil , though exhibiting the same symptoms and suffering in the same manner , never left me . 
Our arms ached , the skin was torn off our hands . 
His task accomplished , each one handed in turn to his panting companions the apparatus that supplied him with life . 
Captain Nemo set the example , and submitted first to this severe discipline . 
When the time came , he gave up his apparatus to another and returned to the vitiated air on board , calm , unflinching , unmurmuring . 
On that day the ordinary work was accomplished with unusual vigour . 
Only two yards remained to be raised from the surface . 
Two yards only separated us from the open sea . 
But the reservoirs were nearly emptied of air . 
The little that remained ought to be kept for the workers not a particle for the Nautilus . 
When I went back on board , I was half suffocated . 
What a night ! I know not how to describe it . 
The next day my breathing was oppressed . 
Dizziness accompanied the pain in my head and made me like a drunken man . 
My companions showed the same symptoms . 
Some of the crew had rattling in the throat . 
This man's coolness and energy never forsook him . 
He subdued his physical pains by moral force . 
By his orders the vessel was lightened , that is to say , raised from the ice bed by a change of specific gravity . 
When it floated they towed it so as to bring it above the immense trench made on the level of the water line . 
Then , filling his reservoirs of water , he descended and shut himself up in the hole . 
Just then all the crew came on board , and the double door of communication was shut . 
The Nautilus then rested on the bed of ice , which was not one yard thick , and which the sounding leads had perforated in a thousand places . 
The taps of the reservoirs were then opened , and a hundred cubic yards of water was let in , increasing the weight of the Nautilus to , tons . 
We waited , we listened , forgetting our sufferings in hope . 
Our safety depended on this last chance . 
Notwithstanding the buzzing in my head , I soon heard the humming sound under the hull of the Nautilus . 
The ice cracked with a singular noise , like tearing paper , and the Nautilus sank . 
We are off ! murmured Conseil in my ear . 
I could not answer him . 
I seized his hand , and pressed it convulsively . 
Then all the electric force was put on the pumps , that soon began to let the water out of the reservoirs . 
After some minutes , our fall was stopped . 
Soon , too , the manometer indicated an ascending movement . 
The screw , going at full speed , made the iron hull tremble to its very bolts and drew us towards the north . 
But if this floating under the iceberg is to last another day before we reach the open sea , I shall be dead first . 
Half stretched upon a divan in the library , I was suffocating . 
My face was purple , my lips blue , my faculties suspended . 
I neither saw nor heard . 
All notion of time had gone from my mind . 
My muscles could not contract . 
I do not know how many hours passed thus , but I was conscious of the agony that was coming over me . 
I felt as if I was going to die . 
Some breaths of air penetrated my lungs . 
Some particles of air still remained at the bottom of one apparatus . 
Instead of using it , they had kept it for me , and , while they were being suffocated , they gave me life , drop by drop . 
I wanted to push back the thing they held my hands , and for some moments I breathed freely . 
I looked at the clock it was eleven in the morning . 
It ought to be the th of March . 
The Nautilus went at a frightful pace , forty miles an hour . 
It literally tore through the water . 
Where was Captain Nemo ? Had he succumbed ? Were his companions dead with him ? At the moment the manometer indicated that we were not more than twenty feet from the surface . 
A mere plate of ice separated us from the atmosphere . 
Could we not break it ? Perhaps . 
In any case the Nautilus was going to attempt it . 
I felt that it was in an oblique position , lowering the stern , and raising the bows . 
The introduction of water had been the means of disturbing its equilibrium . 
Then , impelled by its powerful screw , it attacked the ice field from beneath like a formidable battering ram . 
The panel was opened one might say torn off and the pure air came in in abundance to all parts of the Nautilus . 
CHAPTER XVII FROM CAPE HORN TO THE AMAZON How I got on to the platform , I have no idea perhaps the Canadian had carried me there . 
But I breathed , I inhaled the vivifying sea air . 
My two companions were getting drunk with the fresh particles . 
The other unhappy men had been so long without food , that they could not with impunity indulge in the simplest aliments that were given them . 
Ah ! said Conseil , how delightful this oxygen is ! Master need not fear to breathe it . 
There is enough for everybody . 
Ned Land did not speak , but he opened his jaws wide enough to frighten a shark . 
Our strength soon returned , and , when I looked round me , I saw we were alone on the platform . 
The foreign seamen in the Nautilus were contented with the air that circulated in the interior none of them had come to drink in the open air . 
The first words I spoke were words of gratitude and thankfulness to my two companions . 
Ned and Conseil had prolonged my life during the last hours of this long agony . 
All my gratitude could not repay such devotion . 
My friends , said I , we are bound one to the other for ever , and I am under infinite obligations to you . 
Which I shall take advantage of , exclaimed the Canadian . 
What do you mean ? said Conseil . 
I mean that I shall take you with me when I leave this infernal Nautilus . 
I could not answer that question , and I feared that Captain Nemo would rather take us to the vast ocean that touches the coasts of Asia and America at the same time . 
He would thus complete the tour round the submarine world , and return to those waters in which the Nautilus could sail freely . 
We ought , before long , to settle this important point . 
The Nautilus went at a rapid pace . 
The polar circle was soon passed , and the course shaped for Cape Horn . 
We were off the American point , March st , at seven o'clock in the evening . 
Then all our past sufferings were forgotten . 
The remembrance of that imprisonment in the ice was effaced from our minds . 
We only thought of the future . 
Captain Nemo did not appear again either in the drawing room or on the platform . 
The point shown each day on the planisphere , and , marked by the lieutenant , showed me the exact direction of the Nautilus . 
Now , on that evening , it was evident , to , my great satisfaction , that we were going back to the North by the Atlantic . 
The next day , April st , when the Nautilus ascended to the surface some minutes before noon , we sighted land to the west . 
It was Terra del Fuego , which the first navigators named thus from seeing the quantity of smoke that rose from the natives' huts . 
The coast seemed low to me , but in the distance rose high mountains . 
At this moment the peak was clearly defined against the sky . 
The Nautilus , diving again under the water , approached the coast , which was only some few miles off . 
Another weed known as velp , with leaves four feet long , buried in the coral concretions , hung at the bottom . 
It served as nest and food for myriads of crustacea and molluscs , crabs , and cuttlefish . 
There seals and otters had splendid repasts , eating the flesh of fish with sea vegetables , according to the English fashion . 
Over this fertile and luxuriant ground the Nautilus passed with great rapidity . 
Towards evening it approached the Falkland group , the rough summits of which I recognised the following day . 
The depth of the sea was moderate . 
On the shores our nets brought in beautiful specimens of sea weed , and particularly a certain fucus , the roots of which were filled with the best mussels in the world . 
Geese and ducks fell by dozens on the platform , and soon took their places in the pantry on board . 
When the last heights of the Falklands had disappeared from the horizon , the Nautilus sank to between twenty and twenty five yards , and followed the American coast . 
Captain Nemo did not show himself . 
Until the rd of April we did not quit the shores of Patagonia , sometimes under the ocean , sometimes at the surface . 
The Nautilus passed beyond the large estuary formed by the Uraguay . 
Its direction was northwards , and followed the long windings of the coast of South America . 
We had then made , miles since our embarkation in the seas of Japan . 
About eleven o'clock in the morning the Tropic of Capricorn was crossed on the thirty seventh meridian , and we passed Cape Frio standing out to sea . 
Captain Nemo , to Ned Land's great displeasure , did not like the neighbourhood of the inhabited coasts of Brazil , for we went at a giddy speed . 
Not a fish , not a bird of the swiftest kind could follow us , and the natural curiosities of these seas escaped all observation . 
This speed was kept up for several days , and in the evening of the th of April we sighted the most westerly point of South America that forms Cape San Roque . 
But then the Nautilus swerved again , and sought the lowest depth of a submarine valley which is between this Cape and Sierra Leone on the African coast . 
This valley bifurcates to the parallel of the Antilles , and terminates at the mouth by the enormous depression of , yards . 
The bottom of this immense valley is dotted with some mountains , that give to these submarine places a picturesque aspect . 
I speak , moreover , from the manuscript charts that were in the library of the Nautilus charts evidently due to Captain Nemo's hand , and made after his personal observations . 
For two days the desert and deep waters were visited by means of the inclined planes . 
The Nautilus was furnished with long diagonal broadsides which carried it to all elevations . 
paragraphs are deleted from this edition CHAPTER XVIII THE POULPS For several days the Nautilus kept off from the American coast . 
Evidently it did not wish to risk the tides of the Gulf of Mexico or of the sea of the Antilles . 
April th , we sighted Martinique and Guadaloupe from a distance of about thirty miles . 
I saw their tall peaks for an instant . 
Flight would have been quite practicable , if Ned Land had been able to take possession of the boat without the Captain's knowledge . 
But in the open sea it could not be thought of . 
The Canadian , Conseil , and I had a long conversation on this subject . 
For six months we had been prisoners on board the Nautilus . 
We had travelled , leagues and , as Ned Land said , there was no reason why it should come to an end . 
We could hope nothing from the Captain of the Nautilus , but only from ourselves . 
Besides , for some time past he had become graver , more retired , less sociable . 
He seemed to shun me . 
Formerly he was pleased to explain the submarine marvels to me now he left me to my studies , and came no more to the saloon . 
What change had come over him ? For what cause ? For my part , I did not wish to bury with me my curious and novel studies . 
I had now the power to write the true book of the sea and this book , sooner or later , I wished to see daylight . 
The land nearest us was the archipelago of the Bahamas . 
There rose high submarine cliffs covered with large weeds . 
It was about eleven o'clock when Ned Land drew my attention to a formidable pricking , like the sting of an ant , which was produced by means of large seaweeds . 
Well , I said , these are proper caverns for poulps , and I should not be astonished to see some of these monsters . 
What ! said Conseil cuttlefish , real cuttlefish of the cephalopod class ? No , I said , poulps of huge dimensions . 
I will never believe that such animals exist , said Ned . 
Well , said Conseil , with the most serious air in the world , I remember perfectly to have seen a large vessel drawn under the waves by an octopus's arm . 
You saw that ? said the Canadian . 
With your own eyes ? With my own eyes . 
Where , pray , might that be ? At St . 
In the port ? said Ned , ironically . 
No in a church , replied Conseil . 
In a church ! cried the Canadian . 
In a picture representing the poulp in question . 
Good ! said Ned Land , bursting out laughing . 
He is quite right , I said . 
I have heard of this picture but the subject represented is taken from a legend , and you know what to think of legends in the matter of natural history . 
Besides , when it is a question of monsters , the imagination is apt to run wild . 
It is also said that the Bishop of Nidros was building an altar on an immense rock . 
Mass finished , the rock began to walk , and returned to the sea . 
The rock was a poulp . 
Another Bishop , Pontoppidan , speaks also of a poulp on which a regiment of cavalry could manoeuvre . 
Lastly , the ancient naturalists speak of monsters whose mouths were like gulfs , and which were too large to pass through the Straits of Gibraltar . 
But how much is true of these stories ? asked Conseil . 
Nothing , my friends at least of that which passes the limit of truth to get to fable or legend . 
Nevertheless , there must be some ground for the imagination of the story tellers . 
One cannot deny that poulps and cuttlefish exist of a large species , inferior , however , to the cetaceans . 
Aristotle has stated the dimensions of a cuttlefish as five cubits , or nine feet two inches . 
Our fishermen frequently see some that are more than four feet long . 
Some skeletons of poulps are preserved in the museums of Trieste and Montpelier , that measure two yards in length . 
Besides , according to the calculations of some naturalists , one of these animals only six feet long would have tentacles twenty seven feet long . 
That would suffice to make a formidable monster . 
Do they fish for them in these days ? asked Ned . 
If they do not fish for them , sailors see them at least . 
One of my friends , Captain Paul Bos of Havre , has often affirmed that he met one of these monsters of colossal dimensions in the Indian seas . 
But the most astonishing fact , and which does not permit of the denial of the existence of these gigantic animals , happened some years ago , in . 
What is the fact ? asked Ned Land . 
Captain Bouguer went near to the animal , and attacked it with harpoon and guns , without much success , for balls and harpoons glided over the soft flesh . 
After several fruitless attempts the crew tried to pass a slip knot round the body of the mollusc . 
The noose slipped as far as the tail fins and there stopped . 
Indeed ! is that a fact ? An indisputable fact , my good Ned . 
They proposed to name this poulp Bouguer's cuttlefish . 
What length was it ? asked the Canadian . 
Did it not measure about six yards ? said Conseil , who , posted at the window , was examining again the irregular windings of the cliff . 
Its head , rejoined Conseil , was it not crowned with eight tentacles , that beat the water like a nest of serpents ? Precisely . 
Had not its eyes , placed at the back of its head , considerable development ? Yes , Conseil . 
And was not its mouth like a parrot's beak ? Exactly , Conseil . 
Very well ! no offence to master , he replied , quietly if this is not Bouguer's cuttlefish , it is , at least , one of its brothers . 
Ned Land hurried to the window . 
What a horrible beast ! he cried . 
I looked in my turn , and could not repress a gesture of disgust . 
Before my eyes was a horrible monster worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous . 
It was an immense cuttlefish , being eight yards long . 
It swam crossways in the direction of the Nautilus with great speed , watching us with its enormous staring green eyes . 
One could see the air holes on the inner side of the tentacles . 
The monster's mouth , a horned beak like a parrot's , opened and shut vertically . 
Its tongue , a horned substance , furnished with several rows of pointed teeth , came out quivering from this veritable pair of shears . 
What a freak of nature , a bird's beak on a mollusc ! Its spindle like body formed a fleshy mass that might weigh , to , lb . 
the , varying colour changing with great rapidity , according to the irritation of the animal , passed successively from livid grey to reddish brown . 
What irritated this mollusc ? No doubt the presence of the Nautilus , more formidable than itself , and on which its suckers or its jaws had no hold . 
I overcame the horror that inspired me , and , taking a pencil , began to draw it . 
Perhaps this is the same which the Alector saw , said Conseil . 
No , replied the Canadian for this is whole , and the other had lost its tail . 
That is no reason , I replied . 
The arms and tails of these animals are re formed by renewal and in seven years the tail of Bouguer's cuttlefish has no doubt had time to grow . 
By this time other poulps appeared at the port light . 
They formed a procession after the Nautilus , and I heard their beaks gnashing against the iron hull . 
These monsters kept in the water with such precision that they seemed immovable . 
A shock made it tremble in every plate . 
Have we struck anything ? I asked . 
In any case , replied the Canadian , we shall be free , for we are floating . 
The Nautilus was floating , no doubt , but it did not move . 
Captain Nemo , followed by his lieutenant , entered the drawing room . 
I had not seen him for some time . 
Without noticing or speaking to us , he went to the panel , looked at the poulps , and said something to his lieutenant . 
Soon the panels were shut . 
I went towards the Captain . 
A curious collection of poulps ? I said . 
Yes , indeed , Mr. Naturalist , he replied and we are going to fight them , man to beast . 
I thought I had not heard aright . 
Man to beast ? I repeated . 
I think that the horny jaws of one of the cuttlefish is entangled in the blades . 
That is what prevents our moving . 
What are you going to do ? Rise to the surface , and slaughter this vermin . 
The electric bullets are powerless against the soft flesh , where they do not find resistance enough to go off . 
But we shall attack them with the hatchet . 
And the harpoon , sir , said the Canadian , if you do not refuse my help . 
I will accept it , Master Land . 
We will follow you , I said , and , following Captain Nemo , we went towards the central staircase . 
There , about ten men with boarding hatchets were ready for the attack . 
Conseil and I took two hatchets Ned Land seized a harpoon . 
The Nautilus had then risen to the surface . 
One of the sailors , posted on the top ladderstep , unscrewed the bolts of the panels . 
But hardly were the screws loosed , when the panel rose with great violence , evidently drawn by the suckers of a poulp's arm . 
Immediately one of these arms slid like a serpent down the opening and twenty others were above . 
With one blow of the axe , Captain Nemo cut this formidable tentacle , that slid wriggling down the ladder . 
Captain Nemo uttered a cry , and rushed out . 
What a scene ! The unhappy man , seized by the tentacle and fixed to the suckers , was balanced in the air at the caprice of this enormous trunk . 
The unfortunate man was lost . 
Who could rescue him from that powerful pressure ? However , Captain Nemo had rushed to the poulp , and with one blow of the axe had cut through one arm . 
His lieutenant struggled furiously against other monsters that crept on the flanks of the Nautilus . 
The crew fought with their axes . 
The Canadian , Conseil , and I buried our weapons in the fleshy masses a strong smell of musk penetrated the atmosphere . 
It was horrible ! For one instant , I thought the unhappy man , entangled with the poulp , would be torn from its powerful suction . 
Seven of the eight arms had been cut off . 
One only wriggled in the air , brandishing the victim like a feather . 
But just as Captain Nemo and his lieutenant threw themselves on it , the animal ejected a stream of black liquid . 
We were blinded with it . 
When the cloud dispersed , the cuttlefish had disappeared , and my unfortunate countryman with it . 
Ten or twelve poulps now invaded the platform and sides of the Nautilus . 
We rolled pell mell into the midst of this nest of serpents , that wriggled on the platform in the waves of blood and ink . 
It seemed as though these slimy tentacles sprang up like the hydra's heads . 
Ned Land's harpoon , at each stroke , was plunged into the staring eyes of the cuttle fish . 
But my bold companion was suddenly overturned by the tentacles of a monster he had not been able to avoid . 
Ah ! how my heart beat with emotion and horror ! The formidable beak of a cuttlefish was open over Ned Land . 
The unhappy man would be cut in two . 
I rushed to his succour . 
I owed myself this revenge ! said the Captain to the Canadian . 
The combat had lasted a quarter of an hour . 
The monsters , vanquished and mutilated , left us at last , and disappeared under the waves . 
Captain Nemo , covered with blood , nearly exhausted , gazed upon the sea that had swallowed up one of his companions , and great tears gathered in his eyes . 
CHAPTER XIX THE GULF STREAM This terrible scene of the th of April none of us can ever forget . 
I have written it under the influence of violent emotion . 
Since then I have revised the recital I have read it to Conseil and to the Canadian . 
They found it exact as to facts , but insufficient as to effect . 
To paint such pictures , one must have the pen of the most illustrious of our poets , the author of The Toilers of the Deep . 
I have said that Captain Nemo wept while watching the waves his grief was great . 
But that he was sad and irresolute I could see by the vessel , of which he was the soul , and which received all his impressions . 
The Nautilus did not keep on in its settled course it floated about like a corpse at the will of the waves . 
He could not tear himself away from the scene of the last struggle , from this sea that had devoured one of his men . 
It was not till the st of May that the Nautilus resumed its northerly course , after having sighted the Bahamas at the mouth of the Bahama Canal . 
We were then following the current from the largest river to the sea , that has its banks , its fish , and its proper temperatures . 
I mean the Gulf Stream . 
It is really a river , that flows freely to the middle of the Atlantic , and whose waters do not mix with the ocean waters . 
It is a salt river , salter than the surrounding sea . 
Its mean depth is , fathoms , its mean breadth ten miles . 
In certain places the current flows with the speed of two miles and a half an hour . 
The body of its waters is more considerable than that of all the rivers in the globe . 
It was on this ocean river that the Nautilus then sailed . 
May th , we were still crossing Cape Hatteras , at the height of the North Caroline . 
The width of the Gulf Stream there is seventy five miles , and its depth yards . 
The Nautilus still went at random all supervision seemed abandoned . 
I thought that , under these circumstances , escape would be possible . 
Indeed , the inhabited shores offered anywhere an easy refuge . 
We could hope to be picked up . 
It was a favourable opportunity , notwithstanding the thirty miles that separated the Nautilus from the coasts of the Union . 
One unfortunate circumstance thwarted the Canadian's plans . 
The weather was very bad . 
We were nearing those shores where tempests are so frequent , that country of waterspouts and cyclones actually engendered by the current of the Gulf Stream . 
To tempt the sea in a frail boat was certain destruction . 
Ned Land owned this himself . 
He fretted , seized with nostalgia that flight only could cure . 
Master , he said that day to me , this must come to an end . 
I must make a clean breast of it . 
This Nemo is leaving land and going up to the north . 
But I declare to you that I have had enough of the South Pole , and I will not follow him to the North . 
I will speak , now we are in mine . 
When I think that before long the Nautilus will be by Nova Scotia , and that there near New foundland is a large bay , and into that bay the St . 
Lawrence empties itself , and that the St . 
Lawrence is my river , the river by Quebec , my native town when I think of this , I feel furious , it makes my hair stand on end . 
Sir , I would rather throw myself into the sea ! I will not stay here ! I am stifled ! The Canadian was evidently losing all patience . 
His vigorous nature could not stand this prolonged imprisonment . 
His face altered daily his temper became more surly . 
I knew what he must suffer , for I was seized with home sickness myself . 
Well , sir ? said Ned , seeing I did not reply . 
Well , Ned , do you wish me to ask Captain Nemo his intentions concerning us ? Yes , sir . 
Although he has already made them known ? Yes I wish it settled finally . 
Speak for me , in my name only , if you like . 
But I so seldom meet him . 
That is all the more reason for you to go to see him . 
I went to my room . 
From thence I meant to go to Captain Nemo's . 
It would not do to let this opportunity of meeting him slip . 
I knocked at the door . 
I knocked again , then turned the handle . 
The door opened , I went in . 
Bending over his work table , he had not heard me . 
Resolved not to go without having spoken , I approached him . 
He raised his head quickly , frowned , and said roughly , You here ! What do you want ? To speak to you , Captain . 
But I am busy , sir I am working . 
I leave you at liberty to shut yourself up cannot I be allowed the same ? This reception was not encouraging but I was determined to hear and answer everything . 
Sir , I said coldly , I have to speak to you on a matter that admits of no delay . 
What is that , sir ? he replied , ironically . 
Have you discovered something that has escaped me , or has the sea delivered up any new secrets ? We were at cross purposes . 
It contains the sum of my studies of the sea and , if it please God , it shall not perish with me . 
This manuscript , signed with my name , complete with the history of my life , will be shut up in a little floating case . 
The last survivor of all of us on board the Nautilus will throw this case into the sea , and it will go whither it is borne by the waves . 
This man's name ! his history written by himself ! His mystery would then be revealed some day . 
Captain , I said , I can but approve of the idea that makes you act thus . 
The result of your studies must not be lost . 
But the means you employ seem to me to be primitive . 
But I and my companions are ready to keep this manuscript in store and , if you will put us at liberty At liberty ? said the Captain , rising . 
Yes , sir that is the subject on which I wish to question you . 
You impose actual slavery upon us ! Give it what name you please . 
But everywhere the slave has the right to regain his liberty . 
Who denies you this right ? Have I ever tried to chain you with an oath ? He looked at me with his arms crossed . 
I repeat , it is not only myself whom it concerns . 
Study is to me a relief , a diversion , a passion that could make me forget everything . 
Like you , I am willing to live obscure , in the frail hope of bequeathing one day , to future time , the result of my labours . 
But it is otherwise with Ned Land . 
Every man , worthy of the name , deserves some consideration . 
I have nothing more to say to you . 
Let this first time you have come to treat of this subject be the last , for a second time I will not listen to you . 
I related my conversation to my two companions . 
We know now , said Ned , that we can expect nothing from this man . 
The Nautilus is nearing Long Island . 
We will escape , whatever the weather may be . 
But the sky became more and more threatening . 
Symptoms of a hurricane became manifest . 
The atmosphere was becoming white and misty . 
On the horizon fine streaks of cirrhous clouds were succeeded by masses of cumuli . 
Other low clouds passed swiftly by . 
The swollen sea rose in huge billows . 
The birds disappeared with the exception of the petrels , those friends of the storm . 
The barometer fell sensibly , and indicated an extreme extension of the vapours . 
The mixture of the storm glass was decomposed under the influence of the electricity that pervaded the atmosphere . 
The tempest burst on the th of May , just as the Nautilus was floating off Long Island , some miles from the port of New York . 
The wind blew from the south west at first . 
Captain Nemo , during the squalls , had taken his place on the platform . 
He had made himself fast , to prevent being washed overboard by the monstrous waves . 
I had hoisted myself up , and made myself fast also , dividing my admiration between the tempest and this extraordinary man who was coping with it . 
The raging sea was swept by huge cloud drifts , which were actually saturated with the waves . 
The Nautilus , sometimes lying on its side , sometimes standing up like a mast , rolled and pitched terribly . 
About five o'clock a torrent of rain fell , that lulled neither sea nor wind . 
The hurri cane blew nearly forty leagues an hour . 
It is under these conditions that it overturns houses , breaks iron gates , displaces twenty four pounders . 
However , the Nautilus , in the midst of the tempest , confirmed the words of a clever engineer , There is no well constructed hull that cannot defy the sea . 
This was not a resisting rock it was a steel spindle , obedient and movable , without rigging or masts , that braved its fury with impunity . 
However , I watched these raging waves attentively . 
They measured fifteen feet in height , and to yards long , and their speed of propagation was thirty feet per second . 
Their bulk and power increased with the depth of the water . 
Such waves as these , at the Hebrides , have displaced a mass weighing , lb . 
They are they which , in the tempest of December rd , , after destroying the town of Yeddo , in Japan , broke the same day on the shores of America . 
The intensity of the tempest increased with the night . 
The barometer , as in at Reunion during a cyclone , fell seven tenths at the close of day . 
I saw a large vessel pass the horizon struggling painfully . 
She was trying to lie to under half steam , to keep up above the waves . 
It was probably one of the steamers of the line from New York to Liverpool , or Havre . 
It soon disappeared in the gloom . 
At ten o'clock in the evening the sky was on fire . 
The atmosphere was streaked with vivid lightning . 
I could not bear the brightness of it while the captain , looking at it , seemed to envy the spirit of the tempest . 
A terrible noise filled the air , a complex noise , made up of the howls of the crushed waves , the roaring of the wind , and the claps of thunder . 
Ah , that Gulf Stream ! It deserves its name of the King of Tempests . 
It is that which causes those formidable cyclones , by the difference of temperature between its air and its currents . 
A shower of fire had succeeded the rain . 
The drops of water were changed to sharp spikes . 
One would have thought that Captain Nemo was courting a death worthy of himself , a death by lightning . 
As the Nautilus , pitching dreadfully , raised its steel spur in the air , it seemed to act as a conductor , and I saw long sparks burst from it . 
Crushed and without strength I crawled to the panel , opened it , and descended to the saloon . 
The storm was then at its height . 
It was impossible to stand upright in the interior of the Nautilus . 
Captain Nemo came down about twelve . 
I heard the reservoirs filling by degrees , and the Nautilus sank slowly beneath the waves . 
Through the open windows in the saloon I saw large fish terrified , passing like phantoms in the water . 
Some were struck before my eyes . 
The Nautilus was still descending . 
I thought that at about eight fathoms deep we should find a calm . 
But no ! the upper beds were too violently agitated for that . 
We had to seek repose at more than twenty five fathoms in the bowels of the deep . 
All hope of escape on the shores of New York or St . 
Lawrence had faded away and poor Ned , in despair , had isolated himself like Captain Nemo . 
Conseil and I , however , never left each other . 
I said that the Nautilus had gone aside to the east . 
For some days , it wandered first on the surface , and then beneath it , amid those fogs so dreaded by sailors . 
On the th of May we were at the extreme south of the Bank of Newfoundland . 
There also are heaped up those erratic blocks which are carried along by the broken ice and close by , a vast charnel house of molluscs , which perish here by millions . 
The depth of the sea is not great at Newfoundland not more than some hundreds of fathoms but towards the south is a depression of , fathoms . 
There the Gulf Stream widens . 
It loses some of its speed and some of its temperature , but it becomes a sea . 
It was on the th of May , about miles from Heart's Content , at a depth of more than , fathoms , that I saw the electric cable lying on the bottom . 
Conseil , to whom I had not mentioned it , thought at first that it was a gigantic sea serpent . 
But I undeceived the worthy fellow , and by way of consolation related several particulars in the laying of this cable . 
The first one was laid in the years and but , after transmitting about telegrams , would not act any longer . 
In the engineers constructed an other one , measuring , miles in length , and weighing , tons , which was embarked on the Great Eastern . 
On the th of May the Nautilus , being at a depth of more than , fathoms , was on the precise spot where the rupture occurred which ruined the enterprise . 
It was within miles of the coast of Ireland and at half past two in the afternoon they discovered that communication with Europe had ceased . 
The electricians on board resolved to cut the cable before fishing it up , and at eleven o'clock at night they had recovered the damaged part . 
They made another point and spliced it , and it was once more submerged . 
But some days after it broke again , and in the depths of the ocean could not be recaptured . 
The Americans , however , were not discouraged . 
The bundles of conducting wires were each enveloped in gutta percha , and protected by a wadding of hemp , contained in a metallic covering . 
The Great Eastern sailed on the th of July , . 
Several times in unrolling the cable they observed that nails had recently been forced into it , evidently with the motive of destroying it . 
From that time the criminal attempt was never repeated . 
On the rd of July the Great Eastern was not more than miles from Newfoundland , when they telegraphed from Ireland the news of the armistice concluded between Prussia and Austria after Sadowa . 
On the th , in the midst of heavy fogs , they reached the port of Heart's Content . 
I did not expect to find the electric cable in its primitive state , such as it was on leaving the manufactory . 
The long serpent , covered with the remains of shells , bristling with foraminiferae , was encrusted with a strong coating which served as a protection against all boring molluscs . 
It lay quietly sheltered from the motions of the sea , and under a favourable pressure for the transmission of the electric spark which passes from Europe to America in . 
Doubtless this cable will last for a great length of time , for they find that the gutta percha covering is improved by the sea water . 
Besides , on this level , so well chosen , the cable is never so deeply submerged as to cause it to break . 
The bottom of the ocean then formed a valley about miles broad , in which Mont Blanc might have been placed without its summit appearing above the waves . 
This valley is closed at the east by a perpendicular wall more than , yards high . 
We arrived there on the th of May , and the Nautilus was then not more than miles from Ireland . 
Was Captain Nemo going to land on the British Isles ? No. To my great surprise he made for the south , once more coming back towards European seas . 
In rounding the Emerald Isle , for one instant I caught sight of Cape Clear , and the light which guides the thousands of vessels leaving Glasgow or Liverpool . 
An important question then arose in my mind . 
Did the Nautilus dare entangle itself in the Manche ? Ned Land , who had re appeared since we had been nearing land , did not cease to question me . 
How could I answer ? Captain Nemo reminded invisible . 
After having shown the Canadian a glimpse of American shores , was he going to show me the coast of France ? But the Nautilus was still going southward . 
On the th of May , it passed in sight of Land's End , between the extreme point of England and the Scilly Isles , which were left to starboard . 
If we wished to enter the Manche , he must go straight to the east . 
He did not do so . 
During the whole of the st of May , the Nautilus described a series of circles on the water , which greatly interested me . 
It seemed to be seeking a spot it had some trouble in finding . 
At noon , Captain Nemo himself came to work the ship's log . 
He spoke no word to me , but seemed gloomier than ever . 
The next day , the st of June , the Nautilus continued the same process . 
It was evidently seeking some particular spot in the ocean . 
Captain Nemo took the sun's altitude as he had done the day before . 
The sea was beautiful , the sky clear . 
About eight miles to the east , a large steam vessel could be discerned on the horizon . 
No flag fluttered from its mast , and I could not discover its nationality . 
Some minutes before the sun passed the meridian , Captain Nemo took his sextant , and watched with great attention . 
The perfect rest of the water greatly helped the operation . 
The Nautilus was motionless it neither rolled nor pitched . 
I was on the platform when the altitude was taken , and the Captain pronounced these words It is here . 
He turned and went below . 
Had he seen the vessel which was changing its course and seemed to be nearing us ? I could not tell . 
I returned to the saloon . 
The panels closed , I heard the hissing of the water in the reservoirs . 
The Nautilus began to sink , following a vertical line , for its screw communicated no motion to it . 
Some minutes later it stopped at a depth of more than fathoms , resting on the ground . 
I looked to the port side , and saw nothing but an immensity of quiet waters . 
But to starboard , on the bottom appeared a large protuberance , which at once attracted my attention . 
One would have thought it a ruin buried under a coating of white shells , much resembling a covering of snow . 
Upon examining the mass attentively , I could recognise the ever thickening form of a vessel bare of its masts , which must have sunk . 
It certainly belonged to past times . 
This wreck , to be thus encrusted with the lime of the water , must already be able to count many years passed at the bottom of the ocean . 
It carried seventy four guns , and was launched in . 
In , the th of August , commanded by La Poype Ver trieux , it fought boldly against the Preston . 
In , on the th of July , it was at the taking of Grenada , with the squadron of Admiral Estaing . 
In , on the th of September , it took part in the battle of Comte de Grasse , in Chesapeake Bay . 
In , the French Republic changed its name . 
On the th and th Prairal of the second year , this squadron fell in with an English vessel . 
Sir , to day is the th Prairal , the first of June , . 
Yes , sir , the Avenger ! A good name ! muttered Captain Nemo , crossing his arms . 
My eyes did not leave the Captain , who , with his hand stretched out to sea , was watching with a glowing eye the glorious wreck . 
It was no common misanthropy which had shut Captain Nemo and his companions within the Nautilus , but a hatred , either monstrous or sublime , which time could never weaken . 
Did this hatred still seek for vengeance ? The future would soon teach me that . 
But the Nautilus was rising slowly to the surface of the sea , and the form of the Avenger disappeared by degrees from my sight . 
Soon a slight rolling told me that we were in the open air . 
At that moment a dull boom was heard . 
I looked at the Captain . 
Captain ? said I. He did not answer . 
I left him and mounted the platform . 
Conseil and the Canadian were already there . 
Where did that sound come from ? I asked . 
It was a gunshot , replied Ned Land . 
I looked in the direction of the vessel I had already seen . 
It was nearing the Nautilus , and we could see that it was putting on steam . 
It was within six miles of us . 
What is that ship , Ned ? By its rigging , and the height of its lower masts , said the Canadian , I bet she is a ship of war . 
May it reach us and , if necessary , sink this cursed Nautilus . 
No , sir , he replied I cannot tell what nation she belongs to , for she shows no colours . 
But I can declare she is a man of war , for a long pennant flutters from her main mast . 
For a quarter of an hour we watched the ship which was steaming towards us . 
I could not , however , believe that she could see the Nautilus from that distance and still less that she could know what this submarine engine was . 
Soon the Canadian informed me that she was a large , armoured , two decker ram . 
A thick black smoke was pouring from her two funnels . 
Her closely furled sails were stopped to her yards . 
She hoisted no flag at her mizzen peak . 
The distance prevented us from distinguishing the colours of her pennant , which floated like a thin ribbon . 
If Captain Nemo allowed her to approach , there was a chance of salvation for us . 
Sir , said Ned Land , if that vessel passes within a mile of us I shall throw myself into the sea , and I should advise you to do the same . 
I did not reply to the Canadian's suggestion , but continued watching the ship . 
Whether English , French , American , or Russian , she would be sure to take us in if we could only reach her . 
What ! they are firing at us ! I exclaimed . 
So please you , sir , said Ned , they have recognised the unicorn , and they are firing at us . 
But , I exclaimed , surely they can see that there are men in the case ? It is , perhaps , because of that , replied Ned Land , looking at me . 
A whole flood of light burst upon my mind . 
Doubtless they knew now how to believe the stories of the pretended monster . 
Yes , it must have been so and on every sea they were now seeking this engine of destruction . 
Terrible indeed ! if , as we supposed , Captain Nemo employed the Nautilus in works of vengeance . 
All the formidable past rose before me . 
Instead of meeting friends on board the approaching ship , we could only expect pitiless enemies . 
But the shot rattled about us . 
Some of them struck the sea and ricochetted , losing themselves in the distance . 
But none touched the Nautilus . 
The vessel was not more than three miles from us . 
The Canadian then said , Sir , we must do all we can to get out of this dilemma . 
They will then , perhaps , understand that we are honest folks . 
His face was deadly pale , with a spasm at his heart . 
For an instant it must have ceased to beat . 
His pupils were fearfully contracted . 
He did not speak , he roared , as , with his body thrown forward , he wrung the Canadian's shoulders . 
At that moment a shot struck the shell of the Nautilus obliquely , without piercing it and , rebounding near the Captain , was lost in the sea . 
You will not do that ? I shall do it , he replied coldly . 
And I advise you not to judge me , sir . 
Fate has shown you what you ought not to have seen . 
The attack has begun go down . 
What is this vessel ? You do not know ? Very well ! so much the better ! Its nationality to you , at least , will be a secret . 
Go down ! We could but obey . 
About fifteen of the sailors surrounded the Captain , looking with implacable hatred at the vessel nearing them . 
One could feel that the same desire of vengeance animated every soul . 
But it is not here that you shall perish ! I would not have your ruins mingle with those of the Avenger ! I reached my room . 
The Captain and his second had remained on the platform . 
The screw was set in motion , and the Nautilus , moving with speed , was soon beyond the reach of the ship's guns . 
But the pursuit continued , and Captain Nemo contented himself with keeping his distance . 
About four in the afternoon , being no longer able to contain my impatience , I went to the central staircase . 
The panel was open , and I ventured on to the platform . 
The Captain was still walking up and down with an agitated step . 
He was looking at the ship , which was five or six miles to leeward . 
He was going round it like a wild beast , and , drawing it eastward , he allowed them to pursue . 
But he did not attack . 
Perhaps he still hesitated ? I wished to mediate once more . 
We will fly ! I exclaimed . 
What is this vessel ? I do not know but , whatever it is , it will be sunk before night . 
In any case , it is better to perish with it , than be made accomplices in a retaliation the justice of which we cannot judge . 
That is my opinion too , said Ned Land , coolly . 
Let us wait for night . 
Deep silence reigned on board . 
The compass showed that the Nautilus had not altered its course . 
It was on the surface , rolling slightly . 
Once on board the ship , if we could not prevent the blow which threatened it , we could , at least we would , do all that circumstances would allow . 
Several times I thought the Nautilus was preparing for attack but Captain Nemo contented himself with allowing his adversary to approach , and then fled once more before it . 
Part of the night passed without any incident . 
We watched the opportunity for action . 
We spoke little , for we were too much moved . 
Ned Land would have thrown himself into the sea , but I forced him to wait . 
According to my idea , the Nautilus would attack the ship at her waterline , and then it would not only be possible , but easy to fly . 
At three in the morning , full of uneasiness , I mounted the platform . 
Captain Nemo had not left it . 
He was standing at the fore part near his flag , which a slight breeze displayed above his head . 
He did not take his eyes from the vessel . 
The intensity of his look seemed to attract , and fascinate , and draw it onward more surely than if he had been towing it . 
The moon was then passing the meridian . 
Jupiter was rising in the east . 
As I thought of the deep calm of these elements , compared with all those passions brooding imperceptibly within the Nautilus , I shuddered . 
The vessel was within two miles of us . 
It was ever nearing that phosphorescent light which showed the presence of the Nautilus . 
I could see its green and red lights , and its white lantern hanging from the large foremast . 
An indistinct vibration quivered through its rigging , showing that the furnaces were heated to the uttermost . 
Sheaves of sparks and red ashes flew from the funnels , shining in the atmosphere like stars . 
I remained thus until six in the morning , without Captain Nemo noticing me . 
The ship stood about a mile and a half from us , and with the first dawn of day the firing began afresh . 
The moment could not be far off when , the Nautilus attacking its adversary , my companions and myself should for ever leave this man . 
I was preparing to go down to remind them , when the second mounted the platform , accompanied by several sailors . 
Captain Nemo either did not or would not see them . 
Some steps were taken which might be called the signal for action . 
The iron balustrade around the platform was lowered , and the lantern and pilot cages were pushed within the shell until they were flush with the deck . 
The long surface of the steel cigar no longer offered a single point to check its manoeuvres . 
I returned to the saloon . 
The Nautilus still floated some streaks of light were filtering through the liquid beds . 
With the undulations of the waves the windows were brightened by the red streaks of the rising sun , and this dreadful day of the nd of June had dawned . 
At five o'clock , the log showed that the speed of the Nautilus was slackening , and I knew that it was allowing them to draw nearer . 
Besides , the reports were heard more distinctly , and the projectiles , labouring through the ambient water , were extinguished with a strange hissing noise . 
My friends , said I , the moment is come . 
One grasp of the hand , and may God protect us ! Ned Land was resolute , Conseil calm , myself so nervous that I knew not how to contain myself . 
We all passed into the library but the moment I pushed the door opening on to the central staircase , I heard the upper panel close sharply . 
The Canadian rushed on to the stairs , but I stopped him . 
A well known hissing noise told me that the water was running into the reservoirs , and in a few minutes the Nautilus was some yards beneath the surface of the waves . 
It was too late to act . 
The Nautilus did not wish to strike at the impenetrable cuirass , but below the water line , where the metallic covering no longer protected it . 
We were again imprisoned , unwilling witnesses of the dreadful drama that was preparing . 
We had scarcely time to reflect taking refuge in my room , we looked at each other without speaking . 
A deep stupor had taken hold of my mind thought seemed to stand still . 
I was in that painful state of expectation preceding a dreadful report . 
I waited , I listened , every sense was merged in that of hearing ! The speed of the Nautilus was accelerated . 
It was preparing to rush . 
I felt the shock , but comparatively light . 
I felt the penetrating power of the steel spur . 
I heard rattlings and scrapings . 
But the Nautilus , carried along by its propelling power , passed through the mass of the vessel like a needle through sailcloth ! I could stand it no longer . 
Mad , out of my mind , I rushed from my room into the saloon . 
Captain Nemo was there , mute , gloomy , implacable he was looking through the port panel . 
A large mass cast a shadow on the water and , that it might lose nothing of her agony , the Nautilus was going down into the abyss with her . 
Ten yards from me I saw the open shell , through which the water was rushing with the noise of thunder , then the double line of guns and the netting . 
The bridge was covered with black , agitated shadows . 
The poor creatures were crowding the ratlines , clinging to the masts , struggling under the water . 
It was a human ant heap overtaken by the sea . 
The compressed air blew up her decks , as if the magazines had caught fire . 
Then the unfortunate vessel sank more rapidly . 
Her topmast , laden with victims , now appeared then her spars , bending under the weight of men and , last of all , the top of her mainmast . 
Then the dark mass disappeared , and with it the dead crew , drawn down by the strong eddy . 
I turned to Captain Nemo . 
That terrible avenger , a perfect archangel of hatred , was still looking . 
When all was over , he turned to his room , opened the door , and entered . 
I followed him with my eyes . 
On the end wall beneath his heroes , I saw the portrait of a woman , still young , and two little children . 
Captain Nemo looked at them for some moments , stretched his arms towards them , and , kneeling down , burst into deep sobs . 
CHAPTER XXII THE LAST WORDS OF CAPTAIN NEMO The panels had closed on this dreadful vision , but light had not returned to the saloon all was silence and darkness within the Nautilus . 
At wonderful speed , a hundred feet beneath the water , it was leaving this desolate spot . 
I felt an insurmountable horror for Captain Nemo . 
Whatever he had suffered at the hands of these men , he had no right to punish thus . 
He had made me , if not an accomplice , at least a witness of his vengeance . 
At eleven the electric light reappeared . 
I passed into the saloon . 
I consulted the different instruments . 
The Nautilus was flying northward at the rate of twenty five miles an hour , now on the surface , and now thirty feet below it . 
That night we had crossed two hundred leagues of the Atlantic . 
The shadows fell , and the sea was covered with darkness until the rising of the moon . 
I went to my room , but could not sleep . 
I was troubled with dreadful nightmare . 
The horrible scene of destruction was continually before my eyes . 
From that day , who could tell into what part of the North Atlantic basin the Nautilus would take us ? Still with unaccountable speed . 
Still in the midst of these northern fogs . 
I could no longer judge of the time that was passing . 
The clocks had been stopped on board . 
It seemed , as in polar countries , that night and day no longer followed their regular course . 
I felt myself being drawn into that strange region where the foundered imagination of Edgar Poe roamed at will . 
I estimated this adventurous course of the Nautilus to have lasted fifteen or twenty days . 
And I know not how much longer it might have lasted , had it not been for the catastrophe which ended this voyage . 
Of Captain Nemo I saw nothing whatever now , nor of his second . 
Not a man of the crew was visible for an instant . 
The Nautilus was almost incessantly under water . 
When we came to the surface to renew the air , the panels opened and shut mechanically . 
There were no more marks on the planisphere . 
I knew not where we were . 
And the Canadian , too , his strength and patience at an end , appeared no more . 
Conseil could not draw a word from him and , fearing that , in a dreadful fit of madness , he might kill himself , watched him with constant devotion . 
I had fallen into a heavy sleep towards the early hours , a sleep both painful and unhealthy , when I suddenly awoke . 
Ned Land was leaning over me , saying , in a low voice , We are going to fly . 
When shall we go ? I asked . 
All inspection on board the Nautilus seems to have ceased . 
All appear to be stupefied . 
You will be ready , sir ? Yes where are we ? In sight of land . 
I took the reckoning this morning in the fog twenty miles to the east . 
What country is it ? I do not know but , whatever it is , we will take refuge there . 
Yes , Ned , yes . 
We will fly to night , even if the sea should swallow us up . 
The sea is bad , the wind violent , but twenty miles in that light boat of the Nautilus does not frighten me . 
Unknown to the crew , I have been able to procure food and some bottles of water . 
But , continued the Canadian , if I am surprised , I will defend myself I will force them to kill me . 
We will die together , friend Ned . 
I had made up my mind to all . 
I reached the platform , on which I could with difficulty support myself against the shock of the waves . 
The sky was threatening but , as land was in those thick brown shadows , we must fly . 
I returned to the saloon , fearing and yet hoping to see Captain Nemo , wishing and yet not wishing to see him . 
And yet How long seemed that day , the last that I should pass in the Nautilus . 
Ned Land and Conseil avoided speaking , for fear of betraying themselves . 
At six I dined , but I was not hungry I forced myself to eat in spite of my disgust , that I might not weaken myself . 
At half past six Ned Land came to my room , saying , We shall not see each other again before our departure . 
At ten the moon will not be risen . 
We will profit by the darkness . 
Come to the boat Conseil and I will wait for you . 
The Canadian went out without giving me time to answer . 
Wishing to verify the course of the Nautilus , I went to the saloon . 
We were running N. N. E. at frightful speed , and more than fifty yards deep . 
I wished to fix an indelible impression of it in my mind . 
I remained an hour thus , bathed in the light of that luminous ceiling , and passing in review those treasures shining under their glasses . 
Then I returned to my room . 
I dressed myself in strong sea clothing . 
I collected my notes , placing them carefully about me . 
I could not check its pulsations . 
Certainly my trouble and agitation would have betrayed me to Captain Nemo's eyes . 
What was he doing at this moment ? I listened at the door of his room . 
He had not gone to rest . 
At every moment I expected to see him appear , and ask me why I wished to fly . 
I was constantly on the alert . 
It was the inspiration of a madman fortunately I resisted the desire , and stretched myself on my bed to quiet my bodily agitation . 
All these events passed before my eyes like scenes in a drama . 
Then Captain Nemo seemed to grow enormously , his features to assume superhuman proportions . 
He was no longer my equal , but a man of the waters , the genie of the sea . 
It was then half past nine . 
I held my head between my hands to keep it from bursting . 
I closed my eyes I would not think any longer . 
There was another half hour to wait , another half hour of a nightmare , which might drive me mad . 
At that moment I heard the distant strains of the organ , a sad harmony to an undefinable chant , the wail of a soul longing to break these earthly bonds . 
I listened with every sense , scarcely breathing plunged , like Captain Nemo , in that musical ecstasy , which was drawing him in spirit to the end of life . 
Then a sudden thought terrified me . 
Captain Nemo had left his room . 
He was in the saloon , which I must cross to fly . 
There I should meet him for the last time . 
He would see me , perhaps speak to me . 
A gesture of his might destroy me , a single word chain me on board . 
But ten was about to strike . 
The moment had come for me to leave my room , and join my companions . 
I must not hesitate , even if Captain Nemo himself should rise before me . 
I opened my door carefully and even then , as it turned on its hinges , it seemed to me to make a dreadful noise . 
Perhaps it only existed in my own imagination . 
I crept along the dark stairs of the Nautilus , stopping at each step to check the beating of my heart . 
I reached the door of the saloon , and opened it gently . 
It was plunged in profound darkness . 
The strains of the organ sounded faintly . 
He did not see me . 
In the full light I do not think he would have noticed me , so entirely was he absorbed in the ecstasy . 
I crept along the carpet , avoiding the slightest sound which might betray my presence . 
I was at least five minutes reaching the door , at the opposite side , opening into the library . 
I was going to open it , when a sigh from Captain Nemo nailed me to the spot . 
I knew that he was rising . 
I could even see him , for the light from the library came through to the saloon . 
He came towards me silently , with his arms crossed , gliding like a spectre rather than walking . 
I crept through the opening , which had already admitted my two companions . 
Let us go ! let us go ! I exclaimed . 
Directly ! replied the Canadian . 
The Canadian began to loosen the bolts which still held us to the submarine boat . 
Suddenly a noise was heard . 
Voices were answering each other loudly . 
What was the matter ? Had they discovered our flight ? I felt Ned Land slipping a dagger into my hand . 
Yes , I murmured , we know how to die ! The Canadian had stopped in his work . 
But one word many times repeated , a dreadful word , revealed the cause of the agitation spreading on board the Nautilus . 
From every point of the horizon enormous waves were meeting , forming a gulf justly called the Navel of the Ocean , whose power of attraction extends to a distance of twelve miles . 
There , not only vessels , but whales are sacrificed , as well as white bears from the northern regions . 
It is thither that the Nautilus , voluntarily or involuntarily , had been run by the Captain . 
It was describing a spiral , the circumference of which was lessening by degrees , and the boat , which was still fastened to its side , was carried along with giddy speed . 
I felt that sickly giddiness which arises from long continued whirling round . 
The Nautilus defended itself like a human being . 
Sometimes it seemed to stand upright , and we with it ! We must hold on , said Ned , and look after the bolts . 
We may still be saved if we stick to the Nautilus . 
My head struck on a piece of iron , and with the violent shock I lost all consciousness . 
CHAPTER XXIII CONCLUSION Thus ends the voyage under the seas . 
What passed during that night how the boat escaped from the eddies of the maelstrom how Ned Land , Conseil , and myself ever came out of the gulf , I cannot tell . 
But when I returned to consciousness , I was lying in a fisherman's hut , on the Loffoden Isles . 
My two companions , safe and sound , were near me holding my hands . 
We embraced each other heartily . 
At that moment we could not think of returning to France . 
The means of communication between the north of Norway and the south are rare . 
And I am therefore obliged to wait for the steamboat running monthly from Cape North . 
And , among the worthy people who have so kindly received us , I revise my record of these adventures once more . 
Not a fact has been omitted , not a detail exaggerated . 
It is a faithful narrative of this incredible expedition in an element inaccessible to man , but to which Progress will one day open a road . 
Shall I be believed ? I do not know . 
And it matters little , after all . 
