This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
Niccolas , the King's majordomo , stepped out upon the terrace and swept the Mediterranean with a field glass for the third time since sunrise . 
He lowered it , and turned doubtfully toward the two soldiers . 
The boat from Gibraltar has she arrived yet ? he asked . 
It is but just now leaving the ship's side , he said . 
But I cannot make out who comes in her . 
Ah , pardon , he added quickly , as he pointed to a stout elderly gentleman who walked rapidly toward them through the garden . 
The Gibraltar boat must be in , sir . 
Here is Baron Barrat coming up the path . 
Colonel Erhaupt gave an exclamation of satisfaction , and waved his hand to the newcomer in welcome . 
Go tell his Majesty , he said to the servant . 
The man hesitated and bowed . 
Wake him , commanded Erhaupt . 
Tell him I said to do so . 
Well , Baron , he cried , gayly , as he stepped forward , welcome or are you welcome ? he added , with an uneasy laugh . 
I have succeeded , the other replied gruffly , as he brushed past him . 
Where is the King ? He will be here in a moment . 
I have sent to wake him . 
And you have been successful ? Good . 
How far successful ? The Baron threw himself into one of the wicker chairs , and clapped his hands impatiently for a servant . 
Twelve thousand pounds in all , he replied . 
That's more than he expected . 
It was like pulling teeth at first . 
I want some coffee at once , he said to the attendant , and a bath . 
That boat reeked with Moors and cattle , and there was no wagon lit on the train from Madrid . 
I sat up all night , and played cards with that young Cellini . 
Have Madame Zara and Kalonay returned ? I see the yacht in the harbor . 
Did she succeed ? We do not know the boat only arrived at daybreak . 
They are probably on the launch that is coming in now . 
When the Baron had lighted a cigarette and thrown himself back in his chair , Erhaupt halted and surveyed him in some anxiety . 
You have been gone over two weeks , he said . 
I should like to see you accomplish as much in as short a time , growled the other . 
You know how hard it is to get people to be serious there . 
I had the devil's own time at first . 
You got my cablegram ? Yes it wasn't encouraging . 
Well , I wasn't hopeful myself . 
They wouldn't believe a word of it at first . 
They've backed him so many times already , and they've been bitten , and they're shy , naturally . 
It was the son won them . 
Exhibit A' I call him . 
None of them would hear of it until I spoke of the Prince . 
At first they wanted his Majesty to abdicate , and give the boy a clear road to the crown , but of course I hushed that up . 
Then I dealt out decorations and a few titles , which Louis has made smell so confoundedly rank to Heaven that nobody would take them . 
It was like a game . 
They contributed about L , between them . 
I won two thousand francs from that boy Cellini on the way down . 
They're all staying at the Continental . 
I promised them an audience this morning . 
Good , commented the Colonel , good L , . 
I suppose you took out your commission in advance ? I took out nothing , returned the other , angrily . 
It is all quite regular . 
The Colonel had stopped in his walk , and had been peering eagerly down the leafy path through the garden . 
Is that not Zara coming now ? he asked . 
Look , your eyes are better than mine . 
Barrat rose quickly , and the two men walked forward , and bowed with the easy courtesy of old comrades to a tall , fair girl who came hurriedly up the steps . 
Her life was of two parts . 
She was beautiful , with great masses of yellow hair and wonderful brown eyes . 
Her manner when she spoke seemed to show that she despised the world and those in it almost as thoroughly as she despised herself . 
I bring good news , she said , with an excited laugh . 
Where is Louis ? I will tell his Majesty that you have come . 
You are most welcome , the Baron answered . 
But as he turned to the door it opened from the inside and the king came toward them , shivering and blinking his eyes in the bright sunlight . 
My dear Marie , he lisped , it is like heaven to have you back with us again . 
We have felt your absence every hour . 
Pray be seated , and pardon my robe . 
I saw you through the blinds and could not wait . 
Tell us the glorious news . 
The Baron's good words I have already overheard I listened to them with great entertainment while I was dressing . 
I hoped he would say something discourteous or foolish , but he was quite discreet until he told Erhaupt that he had kept back none of the money . 
Fiction is never so entertaining to me as the truth and real people . 
But tell us now of your mission and of all you did and whether successful or not , be assured you are most welcome . 
The Countess Zara smiled at him doubtfully and crossed her hands in her lap , glancing anxiously over her shoulder . 
I must be very brief , for Kalonay and Father Paul are close behind me , she said . 
They only stopped for a moment at the custom house . 
Keep watch , Baron , and tell me when you see them coming . 
She nodded her head toward the soldiers who sat at the entrance to the terrace , as silent and immovable as blind beggars before a mosque . 
Do they understand ? she asked . 
No , the King assured her . 
They understand nothing , but that they are to keep people away from me and they do it very well . 
I wish I could import them to Paris to help Niccolas fight off creditors . 
Continue , we are most impatient . 
We left here last Sunday night , as you know , she said . 
We passed Algiers the next morning and arrived off the island at mid day , anchoring outside in the harbor . 
We flew the Royal Yacht Squadron's pennant , and an owner's private signal that we invented on the way down . 
I heard of them often while I was at the capital , but not from them . 
The President sent a company of carbineers to arrest them the very night they returned and smuggled me on board the yacht again . 
We put off as soon as I came over the side and sailed directly here . 
As soon as I landed on Tuesday I went to the Hotel de Messina , and sent my card to the President . 
He gave me an audience at once , and I told my story . 
That was the first day . 
The Prince with his popularity in the south was alarming enough , but the Prince and Father Superior to help him seemed to mean the end of the Republic . 
So the President called a hasty meeting of his Cabinet . 
And such a Cabinet ! I wish you could have seen them , Louis , with me in the centre playing on them like an advocate before a jury . 
They were the most dreadful men I ever met , bourgeois and stupid and ugly to a degree . 
Two of them were commission merchants , and one of them is old Dr . 
Gustavanni , who kept the chemist's shop in the Piazza Royale . 
They were quite silly with fear , and they begged me to tell them how they could avert the fall of the Republic and prevent your landing . 
That was rather indiscreet , was it not , Marie ? he murmured . 
They will never believe us when we cry wolf again You must let me finish , Zara interrupted . 
I did not involve you in the least . 
Their troops could then make a show of attacking our landing party and we would raise the cry of treachery' and retreat to the boats . 
The money was to be paid two weeks later in Paris , to me or to whoever brings this ring that I wear . 
The plan we finally agreed upon is this The yacht is to anchor off Basnai next Thursday night . 
At high tide , which is just about daybreak , we are to lower our boats and land our men on that long beach to the south of the break water . 
The troops of the Republic are to lie hidden in the rocks until our men have formed . 
Then they are to fire over their heads , and we are to retreat in great confusion , return to the yacht , and sail away . 
And I need not say that the ring will not leave my finger . 
There was a moment's pause , as though the men were waiting to learn if she had more to tell , and then the King threw back his head and laughed softly . 
What do you think of that , Colonel ? he cried , gayly . 
They are a noble race , my late subjects . 
Bah ! exclaimed the German . 
I didn't know we were dealing with a home for old women . 
It is like taking money from a blind beggar's hat , he said . 
Why , with two hundred men that I could pick up in London , Erhaupt declared , contemptuously , I would guarantee to put you on the throne in a fortnight . 
Heaven forbid ! exclaimed his Majesty . 
So they surrendered as quickly as that , did they ? he asked , nodding toward Madame Zara to continue . 
The Countess glanced again over her shoulder and bit her lips in some chagrin . 
Her eyes showed her disappointment . 
It needed a woman and It needed a beautiful woman , interrupted the King , quickly , in a tone that he would have used to a spoiled child . 
It needed a woman of tact , a woman of courage , a woman among women the Countess Zara . 
Do not imagine , Marie , that we undervalue your part . 
It is their lack of courage that distresses Colonel Erhaupt . 
The King snapped his fingers impatiently . 
An army of brigands and smugglers ! he exclaimed . 
That for his popularity ! But he instantly raised his hands as though in protest at his own warmth of speech and in apology for his outbreak . 
His zeal will ruin us in time . 
He is deucedly in the way , he continued , in his usual tone of easy cynicism . 
We should have let him into our plans from the first , and then if he chose to take no part in them we would at least have had a free hand . 
What is it ? he asked , sharply . 
There is something you have not told us . 
The woman looked at the King , and he nodded his head as though in assent . 
I had to tell them who else was in the plot besides myself , she said , speaking rapidly . 
I had to give them the name of some man who they knew would be able to do what I have promised we could do who could put a stop to the revolution . 
The name I gave was his Kalonay's . 
Barrat threw himself forward in his chair . 
Kalonay's ? he cried , incredulously . 
What madness , Madame ! Why name the only one who is sincere ? She will explain , said the King , in an uneasy voice let her explain . 
You know how mad he is for the King's return , how he himself wishes to get back to the island and to his old position there . 
Why , God only knows , but it is so . 
What pleasure he finds in a land of mists and fogs , in a ruined castle with poachers and smuggling fishermen for companions , I cannot comprehend . 
But the fact remains , he always speaks of it as home and he wishes to return . 
He may turn on you and expose you , and then what have we left ? It is your last chance . 
It is our last chance . 
We have tried everything else , and we cannot show ourselves in Europe , at least not without money in our hands . 
But by naming Kalonay I have managed it so that we have only to show the written agreement I have made with the Republic and he is silenced . 
In it they have promised to pay the Prince Kalonay , naming him in full , , francs if the expedition is withdrawn . 
That agreement is in my hands , and that is our answer to whatever he may think or say . 
Baron Barrat leaned forward and marked each word with a movement of his hand . 
Suppose I had said , she went on , turning to the King , that it was either Barrat or the Colonel here who had turned traitor . 
They know the Baron of old , when he was Chamberlain and ran your roulette wheel at the palace . 
They know he is not the man to turn back an expedition . 
But Kalonay , the man they fear most next to your Majesty to have him turn traitor , why , that was a master stroke . 
Even those boors , stupid as they are , saw that . 
When they made out the agreement they put down all his titles , and laughed as they wrote them in . 
I am tired , she said , avoiding the King's eyes the trip has tired me . 
If you will excuse me , I will go to my rooms through your hall way , if I may . 
Most certainly , said the King . 
I trust you will be rested by dinner time . 
Au revoir , my fair ambassadrice . 
The woman nodded and smiled back at him brightly , and Louis continued to look after her as she disappeared down the corridor . 
He rubbed the back of his fingers across his lips , and thoughtfully examined his finger nails . 
I wonder , he said , after a pause , looking up at Barrat . 
The Baron raised his eyebrows with a glance of polite interrogation . 
I wonder if Kalonay dared to make love to her on the way down . 
The Baron's face became as expressionless as a death mask , and he shrugged his shoulders in protest . 
Or did she make love to Kalonay ? the King insisted , laughing gently . 
I do not care to know , but I wonder . 
The Prince Kalonay , who had accompanied the Dominican monk to Messina , was the last of his race , and when Louis IV . 
had been driven off the island , he had followed his sovereign into exile as a matter of course , and with his customary good humor . 
His estates , in consequence of this step , had been taken up by the Republic , and Kalonay had accepted the loss philosophically as the price one pays for loving a king . 
He found exile easy to bear in Paris , and especially so as he had never relinquished the idea that some day the King would return to his own again . 
The King rose hurriedly when the slim figure of the Prince and the broad shoulders and tonsured head of the monk appeared at the farthest end of the garden walk . 
They are coming ! he cried , with a guilty chuckle so I shall run away and finish dressing . 
I leave you to receive the first shock of Kalonay's enthusiasm alone . 
I confess he bores me . 
Be careful now , and play your parts prettily . 
We are all terribly in earnest . 
Kalonay's enthusiasm had not spent itself entirely before the King returned . 
Kalonay had seated himself on one of the tables , with his feet on a chair and with a cigarette burning between his fingers . 
He was a handsome , dark young man of thirty , with the impulsive manner of a boy . 
Dissipation had left no trace on his face , and his eyes were as innocent of evil and as beautiful as a girl's , and as eloquent as his tongue . 
May the Maria Santissima pity the girls they look upon , his old Spanish nurse used to say of them . 
But Kalonay had shown pity for every one save himself . 
It was good to be back there again , he cried , with a happy sigh . 
I forgot , he said , your Majesty does not care for the rude pleasures of my half of the island . 
Kalonay threw away his cigarette , clasping his hands before him with a sudden change of manner . 
I wished a thousand times that we had brought you with us . 
With you at our head we can sweep the island from one end to the other . 
We will gather strength and force as we go , as a landslide grows , and when we reach the capital we will strike it like a human avalanche . 
And I wish you could have heard him speak , Kalonay cried , his enthusiasm rising as he turned and pointed with his hand at the priest . 
Without him I could have done nothing . 
It was like the stories they tell you when you are a child . 
He made us sob with regret and he filled us with fresh resolves . 
The eyes of the men were turned upon him curiously , and he glanced from one to the other , as though mistrusting their sympathy . 
It was not me it was the Church they came to welcome . 
The fools , he cried bitterly , they thought they could destroy the faith of the people by banishing the servants of the Church . 
As soon end a mother's love for her children by putting an ocean between them . 
For six years those peasants have been true . 
I left them faithful , I returned to find them faithful . 
And now he concluded , looking steadily at the King as though to hold him to account , and now they are to have their reward . 
The King bowed his head gravely in assent . 
They are to have their reward , he repeated . 
He rose and with a wave of his hand invited the priest to follow him , and they walked together to the other end of the terrace . 
When they were out of hearing of the others the King seated himself , and the priest halted beside his chair . 
I wish to speak with you , father , Louis said , concerning this young American girl , Miss Carson , who has promised to help us to help you with her money . 
Baron Barrat , who arrived from Paris this morning , brings back no substantial aid , although the sympathy of the old nobility , he assures me , is with us . 
Sympathy , however , does not purchase Maxim guns , nor pay for rations , and Madame Zara's visit to the capital was , as you know , even less successful . 
Your Majesty has seen Miss Carson , then ? the priest asked . 
Yes , her mother and she have been staying at the Continental ever since they followed you here from Paris , and I have seen her once or twice during your absence . 
If she means to do this , it would be well if she did it at once . 
I do not grudge it to your Majesty's purpose , but so I understood her . 
My success means your success , he continued , smiling pleasantly as he rose to his feet , so I trust you will urge her to be prompt . 
She seems to have unlimited resources in her own right . 
Do you happen to know from whence her money comes ? Her mother told me , said the priest , that Mr. Carson before his death owned mines and railroads . 
They live in California , near the Mission of Saint Francis . 
His daughter has but just inherited her father's fortune , and her one idea of using it is to give it to the Church , as he would have done . 
The priest paused and seemed to consider what the King had just told him . 
I will speak with her , he said , and ask her aid as fully as she can give it . 
May I inquire how far your Majesty has taken her into our plans ? Miss Carson is fully informed , the King replied briefly . 
And if you wish to speak with her you can see her now she and her mother are coming to breakfast with me to hear the account of your visit to the island . 
We might even make a little ceremony of it , and so show her that she is fully in our confidence that she is one of our most valued supporters . 
It might perhaps quicken her interest in the cause . 
I see no reason why that should not be , said the priest , thoughtfully , turning his eyes to the sea below them . 
Madame Zara , he added , without moving his eyes , will not be present . 
The King straightened himself slightly , and for a brief moment of time looked at the priest in silence , but the monk continued to gaze steadily at the blue waters . 
Madame Zara will not be present , the King repeated , coldly . 
There are a few fishermen and mountaineers , your Majesty , the priest continued , turning an unconscious countenance to the King , who came back with us from the island . 
They come as a deputation to inform your Majesty of the welcome that waits you , and I have promised them an audience . 
Their anxiety to see him is only second to their desire to speak to your Majesty . 
You will find some of your most loyal subjects among these men . 
Their forefathers have been faithful to your house and to the Church for many generations . 
Excellent , said the King I shall receive them immediately after the deputation from Paris . 
Consult with Baron Barrat and Kalonay , please , about the details . 
I wish either Kalonay or yourself to make the presentation . 
I see Miss Carson and her mother coming . 
II Mrs. Carson and her daughter came from the hotel to the terrace through the hallway which divided the King's apartments . 
Baron Barrat preceded them and they followed in single file , Miss Carson walking first . 
Patricia Carson , as she was named after her patron saint , or Patty Carson , as she was called more frequently , was an exceedingly pretty girl . 
She was young , impressionable , and absolutely inexperienced . 
She had but two great emotions , her love for her father and for the Church which had nursed her . 
She was quite unconscious of her beauty , and her mode of speaking was simple and eager . 
She halted as she came near the King , and resting her two hands on the top of her lace parasol , nodded pleasantly to him and to the others . 
She neither courtesied nor offered him her hand , but seemed to prefer this middle course , leaving them to decide whether she acted as she did from ignorance or from choice . 
As the King stepped forward to greet her mother , Miss Carson passed him and moved on to where the Father Superior stood apart from the others , talking earnestly with the Prince . 
What he was saying was of an unwelcome nature , for Kalonay's face wore an expression of boredom and polite protest which changed instantly to one of delight when he saw Miss Carson . 
The girl hesitated and made a deep obeisance to the priest . 
I am afraid I interrupt you , she said . 
Not at all , Kalonay assured her , laughing . 
It is a most welcome interruption . 
The good father has been finding fault with me , as usual , and I am quite willing to change the subject . 
Do you not agree with me , Miss Carson ? he asked . 
I am telling the Prince that zeal is not enough , and that high ideals , unless they are accompanied by good conduct , are futile . 
I want him to change , to be more sober , more strict Oh , you must not ask me , Miss Carson said , hurriedly , smiling and shaking her head . 
We are working for only one thing , are we not ? Beyond that you know nothing of me , and I know nothing of you . 
I came to hear of your visit , she continued am I to be told anything ? she asked , eagerly , looking from one to the other . 
It has been such an anxious two weeks . 
We imagined all manner of things had happened to you . 
The Father was probably never safer in his life , he said . 
They took us to their hearts like brothers . 
They might have suffocated us with kindness , but we were in no other danger . 
Then you are encouraged , Father ? she asked , turning to the priest . 
You found them loyal ? Your visit was all you hoped , you can depend upon them ? We can count upon them absolutely , the monk assured her . 
We shall start on our return voyage at once , in a day , as soon as his Majesty gives the word . 
There are so many things I want to know , the girl said but I have no right to ask , she added , looking up at him doubtfully . 
You have every right , the monk answered . 
You have certainly earned it . 
Without the help you gave us we could not have moved . 
You have been more than generous Miss Carson interrupted him with an impatient lifting of her head . 
That sort of generosity is nothing , she said . 
With you men it is different . 
You are all risking something . 
You are actually helping , while I must sit still and wait . 
I hope , Father , she said , smiling , it is not wrong for me to wish I were a man . 
Wrong ! exclaimed Kalonay , in a tone of mock dismay of course it's wrong . 
The monk turned and looked coldly over his shoulder at Kalonay , and the Prince laughed . 
I beg your pardon , he said , but we are told to be contented with our lot , he argued , impenitently . 
He only is a slave who complains , and that is true even if a heretic did say it . 
The monk shook his head and turned again to Miss Carson with a tolerant smile . 
He regarded the young man with a kind but impersonal scrutiny , as though he were a picture or a statue . 
Sometimes I imagine he is all I might have been , he said , had not God given me the strength to overcome myself . 
He has never denied himself in anything he is as wilful and capricious as a girl . 
He makes a noble friend , Miss Carson , and a generous enemy but he is spoiled irretrievably by good fortune and good living and good health . 
The priest looked at the young man with a certain sad severity . 
Unstable as water , thou shalt not excel , he said . 
Oh , I have had my bad days , too , Father , he said . 
He turned his head on one side , and pressed his lips together , looking down . 
Unstable as water that is quite possible , he said , with an air of consideration but spoiled by good fortune oh , no , that is not fair . 
A thousand horses cannot make a man noble , nor was poverty ever ignoble . 
You talk like a weak boy . 
Every word you say is your own condemnation . 
Why should you complain ? Your bed is of your own making . 
The other prodigal was forced to herd with the swine you have chosen to herd with them . 
The girl straightened herself and half rose from her chair . 
You are boring Miss Carson with my delinquencies , said the Prince , sternly . 
His face was flushed , and he did not look either at the girl or at the priest . 
But the prodigal's father ? said Miss Carson , smiling at the older man . 
Did he stand over him and upbraid him ? You remember , he went to meet him when he was yet a great way off . 
That was it , was it not , Father ? Of course he did , cried Kalonay , laughing like a boy , and slipping lightly to the terrace . 
He met him half way and gave him the best he had . 
This one Let's run , cried the Prince . 
He will get the best of us if we stay . 
He always gets the best of me . 
He has been abusing me that way for two weeks now , and he is always sorry afterward . 
Let us leave him alone to his sorrow and remorse . 
Kalonay walked across the terrace with Miss Carson , bending above her with what would have seemed to an outsider almost a proprietary right . 
She did not appear to notice it , but looked at him frankly and listened to what he had to say with interest . 
But he had prepared himself to forgive her personality , for the sake of the high and generous impulse that inspired her . 
Beautiful women he had known before as beautiful women , but the saving grace in his nature had never before been so deeply roused by what was fine as well as beautiful . 
It seemed as though it were too complete and perfect . 
For he assured himself that she possessed everything those qualities which he had never valued before because he believed them to be unattainable , and those others which he had made his idols . 
And he saw with cruel distinctness , that if there were one thing wanting , it was himself . 
He felt like an unworthy steward caught at his master's return unprepared , with ungirt loins , and unlighted lamp . 
Nothing he had done since he was a child gave him the right to consider himself her equal . 
He was not blinded by the approaches which other daughters and the mothers of daughters had made him . 
He knew that what was enough to excuse many things in their eyes might find no apology in hers . 
He looked back with the awakening of a child at the irrevocable acts in his life that could not be altered nor dug up nor hidden away . 
They marked the road he had trodden like heavy milestones , telling his story to every passer by . 
She could read them , as everyone else could read them . 
There was nothing left , and now the one thing he had ever wanted had come , and had found him like a bankrupt , his credit wasted and his coffers empty . 
He had placed himself at the beck and call of every idle man and woman in Paris , and he was as common as the great clock face that hangs above the boulevards . 
Miss Carson's feelings toward Kalonay were not of her own choosing , and had passed through several stages . 
She knew his class only by hearsay , but she placed him in it , and , accordingly , at once dismissed him as a person from her mind . 
One or two other men who knew of her fortune , and to whom she had given as little encouragement as she had to Kalonay , had been less considerate . 
But his attitude toward her was always that of a fellow worker in the common cause . 
He treated her with a gratitude for the help she meant to give his people which much embarrassed her . 
She could not help but admire the way in which he accepted , without forcing her to make it any plainer , the fact that he held no place in her thoughts . 
And at last she learned the truth that she did love him , and it frightened her , and made her miserable and happy . 
What it might mean to the other , neither knew . 
Kalonay smiled and made a slight bow . 
Your Majesty , he began , with polite emphasis . 
The King looked at him curiously . 
But those days are past , and we are living at the end of the century and we do such things differently . 
He straightened himself and returned the King's look of amused interest with one as cynical as his own . 
What I wanted to tell you , Louis , he said , quietly , is that I mean to ask Miss Carson to become the Princess Kalonay . 
The King raised his head quickly and stared at the younger man with a look of distaste and surprise . 
He gave an incredulous laugh . 
Indeed ? he said at last . 
There was always something about rich women you could never resist . 
The Prince made his acknowledgment with a shrug of his shoulders and smiled indifferently . 
I didn't expect you to understand , he said . 
It does seem odd it's quite as difficult for me to understand as for you . 
I have been through it a great many times , and I thought I knew all there was of it . 
But now it seems different . 
I didn't expect you to understand , I don't care if you do . 
I only wanted to warn you . 
Warn me ? interrupted the King , with an unpleasant smile . 
Your Majesty has a certain manner , the Prince began , with a pretence of hesitation , a charm of manner , I might say , which is proverbial . 
It is , we know , attractive to women . 
But your Majesty is sometimes too gracious . 
You can have all of Miss Carson's money you want all you can get . 
If I am to marry her at all , I am not marrying her for her money . 
It isn't essential that you should . 
But I want you to leave the woman I hope to make my wife alone . 
I will allow no pretty speeches , nor royal attentions . 
She can give her money where she pleases , now and always but I'll not have her eyes opened to as you can open them . 
I will not have her annoyed . 
And if she is Ah , and if she is ? challenged the King . 
There was a moment's pause , during which the two men stood regarding each other warily . 
Then the King stiffened his shoulders and placed his hands slowly behind his back . 
That sounds , my dear Kalonay , he said , almost like a threat . 
The younger man laughed insolently . 
I meant it , too , your Majesty , he answered , bowing mockingly and backing away . 
As the King's guests seated themselves at his breakfast table Louis smiled upon them with a gracious glance of welcome and approval . 
His manner was charmingly condescending , and in his appearance there was nothing more serious than an anxiety for their better entertainment and a certain animal satisfaction in the food upon his plate . 
He saw himself plainly as his own highest card , and Barrat and Erhaupt as willing but mediocre accomplices . 
In Father Paul and Kalonay he recognized his most powerful allies or most dangerous foes . 
Miss Carson meant nothing to him but a source from which he could draw the sinews of war . 
What would become of her after the farce was ended , he did not consider . 
That she would surely lose her money , and could hardly hope to escape from them without losing her good name , did not concern him . 
It was not his duty to look after the reputation of any American heiress who thought she could afford to be unconventional . 
She was certainly worth waiting for , and in the meanwhile she was virtually unprotected and surrounded by his own people . 
His claim to exclusive proprietorship in the young girl struck the King as amusing , but impertinent . 
The breakfast was drawing to an end and the faithful Niccolas was the only servant remaining in the room . 
The talk had grown intimate and touched openly upon the successful visit of the two ambassadors to the island , and of Barrat's mission to Paris . 
Of Madame Zara's visit to the northern half of the island , which was supposed to have been less successful , no mention was made . 
He gave a little purr of satisfaction , and again marshalled his chances before him and smiled to find them good . 
He was grandly at peace with himself and with the world . 
The King was amused to find that this prospect pleased him vastly . 
He saw , in his mind's eye , even the possibility of a royal alliance and a pension from one of the great Powers . 
He had forgotten his guests and the moment . 
The King's dream shattered and faded away at the sound , and he moved uneasily in his chair . 
He had the gambler's superstitious regard for trifles , and this invasion of his privacy by a confident stranger filled him with sudden disquiet . 
He saw Kalonay staring at the open windows with an expression of astonishment and dismay . 
Who is it ? the King asked , peevishly . 
What are you staring at ? How did he get in ? Kalonay turned on Barrat , sitting at his right . 
Did you see him ? he asked . 
The devil ! exclaimed the Prince , as though Barrat had confirmed his guess . 
I beg your pardon , he said , nodding his head toward the women . 
He pushed back his chair and stood irresolutely with his napkin in his hand . 
Tell him we are not in , Niccolas , he commanded . 
He saw us as he passed the window , the Baron objected . 
Say we are at breakfast then . 
I will see him myself in a moment . 
What shall I tell him ? he asked , turning to Barrat . 
Do you think he knows ? He must know , they have told him in Paris . 
You are keeping us waiting , said the King . 
What is it ? Who is this man ? An American named Gordon . 
He is a correspondent , Kalonay answered , without turning his head . 
His eyes were still fixed on the terrace as though he had seen a ghost . 
The King slapped his hand on the arm of the chair . 
You promised me , he said , that we should be free from that sort of thing . 
That is why I agreed to come here instead of going to Algiers . 
Go out , Barrat , and send him away . 
Barrat pressed his lips together and shook his head . 
You can't send him away like that , he said . 
He is a very important young man . 
Find out how much he will take , then , exclaimed the King , angrily , and give it to him . 
I can better afford to pay blackmail to any amount than have my plans spoiled now by the newspapers . 
Give him what he wants a fur coat they always wear fur coats or five thousand francs , or something anything but get rid of him . 
Barrat stirred uneasily in his chair and shrugged his shoulders . 
He is not a boulevard journalist , he replied , sulkily . 
Your Majesty is thinking of the Hungarian Jews at Vienna , explained Kalonay , who live on chantage and the Monte Carlo propaganda fund . 
This man is not in their class he is not to be bought . 
I said he was an American . 
An American ! exclaimed Mrs. Carson and her daughter , exchanging rapid glances . 
Is it Archie Gordon you mean ? the girl asked . 
I thought he was in China . 
That is the man Archie Gordon . 
He writes books and explores places , Kalonay answered . 
He wrote a book on the slave trade in the Congo , contributed Colonel Erhaupt . 
I met him at Zanzibar . 
He meant American dollars , but they thought he meant pounds , so they cabled back that they'd pay one half that sum . 
What a remarkable young man ! exclaimed the King . 
He is much too good for daily wear . 
We don't want anyone like that around here , do we ? I know Mr. Gordon very well , said Miss Carson . 
He lived in San Francisco before he came East . 
We are not certain that he knows anything , the King urged . 
He may not have come here to see us . 
I think Father Paul should talk with him first . 
Kalonay , misunderstanding the situation altogether , fastened his eyes upon the table and did not speak . 
He has not come to see you , Patricia , said Mrs. Carson , quietly . 
He does not know that I am here , Miss Carson answered but I'm sure if he did he would be very glad to see us again . 
And if we do see him we can make him promise not to do anything that might interfere with our plans . 
When they had gone the King lit a cigarette and , turning his back on his companions , puffed at it nervously in silence . 
Kalonay sat moodily studying the pattern on the plate before him , and the others whispered together at the farther end of the table . 
The American turned as he heard the footsteps behind him , and , after a startled look of astonishment , hurried toward the two women , exclaiming , with every expression of pleasure . 
I had no idea you were stopping here , he said , after the first greetings were over . 
I thought you were somewhere on the Continent . 
I am so glad I caught you . 
It seems centuries since I saw you last . 
About your engagements to princes and dukes all sorts of disturbing rumors . 
What a terrible swell you've grown to be . 
I hardly recognize you at all , Mrs. Carson . 
It isn't possible this is the same young girl I used to take buggy riding on Sunday evenings ? Indeed , it is not . 
I wish it were , said Mrs. Carson , plaintively , sinking into a chair . 
I'm glad to see you're not changed , Archie , she added , with a sigh . 
Why , he's very much changed , mother , the girl said . 
He's taller , and , in comparison with what he was , he's almost wasted away , and so sunburned I hardly knew him . 
Except round the forehead , she added , mockingly , and I suppose the sun couldn't burn there because of the laurel wreaths . 
I hear they bring them to you fresh every morning . 
They're better than coronets , at any rate , Gordon answered , with a nod . 
How do you two come to be stopping here ? the young man asked . 
I thought this hotel had been turned over to King Louis ? It has , Mrs. Carson answered . 
We are staying at the Continental , on the hill there . 
We are only here for breakfast . 
He asked us to breakfast . 
He ? repeated Gordon , with an incredulous smile . 
Yes , Miss Carson answered at last , coldly . 
We are breakfasting with him . 
What do I know against him ? Why , Patty ! he exclaimed . 
How did you meet him , in Heaven's name ? he asked , roughly . 
Have you been seen with him ? Have you known him long ? Who had the impudence to present him ? Mrs. Carson looked up , now thoroughly alarmed . 
Her lower lip was trembling , and she twisted her gloved hands together in her lap . 
What do you know against him ? Miss Carson repeated , meeting Gordon's look with one as full of surprise as his own . 
Has he borrowed any money from you yet ? he asked . 
Miss Carson's face flushed crimson and she straightened her shoulders and turned her eyes away from Gordon with every sign of indignation and disapproval . 
The young man gave an exclamation of relief . 
You cannot have known him so very long . 
Louis of Messina , he began more gently , is the most unscrupulous rascal in Europe . 
Since they turned him out of his kingdom he has lived by selling his title to men who are promoting new brands of champagne or floating queer mining shares . 
The greater part of his income is dependent on the generosity of the old nobility of Messina , and when they don't pay him readily enough , he levies blackmail on them . 
He owes money to every tailor and horse dealer and hotel keeper in Europe , and no one who can tell one card from another will play with him . 
They call him the King's jackal , and he is one of the most delightful blackguards I ever met . 
So is the King for that matter , a most entertaining individual if you keep him in his place , but a man no woman can know . 
That is his Majesty's way of treating his feminine friends when they bore him and he wants to get rid of them . 
He gives them a title . 
The only thing the man ever did that was to his credit and that could be discussed in polite society is what he is doing now at this place , at this moment . 
That's what brought me here , and I must say I rather admire him for attempting such a thing . 
Of course , it was Kalonay who put him up to it he would never have stirred from the boulevards if that young man had not made him . 
That's how I came to learn about it . 
It was with him , he said , entirely a question as to which course would be of the greater news value . 
Miss Carson regarded him with an expression in which indignation and entreaty were curiously blended . 
Archie , she said , in a low voice , you do not know what you are doing or saying . 
You are threatening to spoil the one thing in my life on which I have set my heart . 
I know all that they mean to do . 
I am not blinded by these men . 
Gordon silenced her with a sweep of his hand . 
He stopped and drew a long breath , either of content that he had discovered the situation in time to take some part in it , or at the prospect of a fight . 
The idea of you two helpless females wandering into this den of wolves ! he exclaimed , indignantly . 
It's about time you had a man to look after you ! You go back to your hotel now , and let me have a chat with Louis of Messina . 
He's kept me waiting some twenty minutes as it is , and that's a little longer than I can give him . 
He rose from his chair but Miss Carson put out her hand and motioned him to be seated . 
If your conclusions were anywhere near the truth , you would be acting very well . 
The King is not handling my money , nor the Prince Kalonay . 
It is in the keeping of Father Paul , the Father Superior of the Dominican monks , who is the only one of these people I know or who knows me . 
It is not her fault . 
There was a priest preaching to them from an open boat . 
It was like a scene from the New Testament , and the man , this Father Paul , made me think of one of the disciples . 
I offered to help him with my money , and he promised me a letter to Cardinal Napoli . 
I had meant to build a memorial church for father , but they urged me to give the money instead to this cause . 
All my dealings until to day have been with Father Paul alone . 
When Father Paul left Paris mother and I came on here in order to be near him , and that is how you find me at Tangier . 
And now that you understand how much this means to me , I know you will not do anything to stand in our way . 
Let me tell them that you mean to volunteer for the campaign . 
The King cannot refuse the services of a man who has done the things you are always doing . 
And I promise you that for a reward you shall be the only one to tell the story of our attempt . 
I promise you , she repeated earnestly , that the day we enter the capital , you can cable whatever you please and tell our story to the whole of Europe . 
The story be hanged ! replied Gordon . 
You have made this a much more serious business than a newspaper story . 
You misunderstand me utterly , Patty . 
I am here now because I am not going to have you compromised and robbed . 
The girl stood up and looked down at the young man indignantly . 
You have no right whatever to use that tone to me , she said . 
I am of age and my own adviser . 
I am acting for the good of a great number of people , and according to what my conscience and common sense tell me is right . 
I shall hate you if you attempt to interfere . 
You can do one of two things , Archie . 
Gordon leaned back in his chair , and looked up at her steadily for a brief moment , and then rose with a smile , and bowed to the two women in silence . 
He looked from one to the other of the men about the table , until his eyes finally met those of the King . 
I believe , sir , you are leading an expedition against the Republic of Messina ? Gordon said . 
I am afraid it can't start unless you take me with you . 
They were careless as to what fortune waited for them there . 
But Kalonay kept close at Miss Carson's stirrup , whether she walked her pony or sent him flying across the hard , sunbaked soil . 
I hope you won't do that again , he said , earnestly , as she drew up panting , with her sailor hat and hair falling to her shoulders . 
They had been galloping recklessly over the open crevices in the soil . 
It's quite the nastiest country I ever saw , he said . 
It looks as though an earthquake had shaken it open and had forgotten to close it again . 
Believe me , it is most unsafe and dangerous . 
Your pony might stumble He stopped , as though the possibilities were too serious for words , but the girl laughed . 
It's no more dangerous than riding across our prairie at dusk when you can't see the barbed wire . 
You are the last person in the world to find fault because a thing is dangerous , she added . 
Kalonay gave their ponies to a servant and pointed with his whip to an arbor that stood at one end of the garden . 
May we sit down there a moment until they call us ? he said . 
I have news of much importance and I may not have another chance , he begged , looking at her wistfully . 
The Prince watched her as though his fate was being weighed in his presence . 
Very well , she said at last , and moved on before him down the garden path . 
The arbor was open to the air with a low , broad roof of palm leaves that overhung it on all sides and left it in deep shadow . 
Around it were many strange plants and flowers , some native to Morocco and some transplanted from their English home . 
You do not mind ? You do not think I presume ? No , I do not mind , said the girl , smiling . 
In my country we do not think it a terrible offence to talk to a girl at a garden party . 
But you said there was something of importance you wanted to say to me . 
You mean the expedition ? Yes , said Kalonay . 
The girl raised her head slightly and stared past him at the burning white walls and the burning blue sky that lay outside the circle of shadow in which they sat . 
This evening she repeated to herself . 
We reach there in two days , Kalonay continued and then we then we go on until we enter the capital . 
The girl's head was bent , and she looked at her hands as they lay in her lap and frowned at them , they seemed so white and pretty and useless . 
Yes , you go on , she repeated , and we stay here . 
You are a man and able to go on . 
I know what that means . 
And you like it , she added , with a glance of mingled admiration and fear . 
You are glad to fight and to risk death and to lead men on to kill other men . 
Kalonay drew lines in the sand with his ridingwhip , and did not raise his head . 
Now that it is really come , I see it all differently . 
I see things I had not thought about before . 
They frighten me , she said . 
The Prince raised his head and faced the girl , clasping the end of his whip nervously in his hand . 
If we should win the island for the King , he said , I believe it will make a great change in me . 
I shall be able to go freely then to my home , as you say , to live there always , to give up the life I have led on the Continent . 
It has been a foolish life a dog's life and I have no one to blame for it but myself . 
I made it worse than it need to have been . 
I shall have much power if we win . 
When I say much power , I mean much power in Messina , in that little corner of the world , and I wish to use it worthily and well . 
These are Father Paul's ideas , not mine , but now I make them mine . 
He rose and paced the length of the little arbor , his hands clasped behind him and his eyes bent on the ground . 
Yes , that is what I mean to do , he said . 
That is the way I mean to live . 
There is no other way . 
For me there shall be no more idleness nor exile . 
I must either live on to help my people , or I must die with them . 
He stopped in his walk and regarded the girl closely . 
You may be thinking , it is easy for him to promise this , it is easy to speak of what one will do . 
I know that I can point back at nothing I have done that gives me any right to ask you to believe me now . 
But I do ask it , for if you believe me believe what I say it makes it easier for me to tell you why after this I must live worthily . 
But you know why ? You must know it is not possible that you do not know . 
He sat down beside her on the bench , leaning forward and crushing his hands together on his knee . 
It is because I love you . 
Because I love you so that everything which is not worthy is hateful to me , myself most of all . 
It is the only thing that counts . 
I know now that when one truly cares , he does not ask whether the other cares or not . 
It is what one gives that counts , not what one receives . 
I am not fit to tell you this . 
But to night I go to try myself , either never to see you again , or to come back perhaps more worthy to love you . 
Think of this when I am gone . 
Do not speak to me now . 
I go to fight for you , do you understand ? Not for our Church , not for my people , but for you , to live or die for you . 
And I ask nothing from you but that you will let me love you always . 
He sat with his long legs dangling over the broad rampart which overlooks the harbor of Tangier . 
He was whistling meditatively to himself and beating an accompaniment to the tune with his heels . 
At intervals he ceased whistling while he placed a cigar between his teeth and pulled upon it thoughtfully , resuming his tune again at the point where it had been interrupted . 
On either side of him the town stretched to meet the low , white , sand hills in a crescent of low , white houses pierced by green minarets and royal palms . 
A warm sun had sent the world to sleep at mid day , and an enforced peace hung over the glaring white town and the sparkling blue sea . 
Gordon blinked at the glare , but his eyes showed no signs of drowsiness . 
Since the luncheon hour the day before he had become a fellow conspirator with men who were as objectionable to him in every way as he knew he was obnoxious to them . 
But they had been forced to accept him because , so they supposed , he had them at the mercy of his own pleasure . 
It was a perplexing position , and Gordon turned it over and over in his mind . 
Had it not been that Miss Carson had a part in it he would have enjoyed the adventure , as an adventure , keenly . 
He had no objections to fighting on the side of rascals , or against rascals . 
It was also interesting to him to note how the sight of the little heir apparent affected both the peasants from the mountains and the young nobles from the Club Royale . 
Every cause has its Joan of Arc , or its Maria Theresa , he cried , looking steadfastly at Miss Carson . 
No cause has succeeded without some good woman to aid it . 
This is she , he said earnestly , the true daughter of the Church who has made it possible for us to return to our own again . 
He threw his cigar into the rampart at his feet and dropped back into the high road . 
It was deserted at the time , except for the presence of a tall , slightly built stranger , who advanced toward him from the city gates . 
The man was dressed in garments of European fashion and carried himself like a soldier , and Gordon put him down at a glance as one of the volunteers from Paris . 
The stranger was walking leisurely , stopping to gaze at the feluccas in the bay , and then turning to look up at the fortress on the hill . 
Gordon pointed to where the white walls of the palace rose above the other white walls about it . 
That is it , he said . 
All the roads lead to it . 
You keep going up hill . 
Thank you , said the stranger . 
I see I have taken a long way . 
He put his white umbrella in the sand , and , removing his helmet , mopped his forehead with his handkerchief . 
It is a curious old town , Tangier , he said , affably , but too many hills , is it not so ? Algiers I like better . 
Yes , Algiers is almost as good as the boulevards , Gordon assented , if you like the boulevards . 
I prefer this place because it is unspoiled . 
But , as you say , there is not much to do here . 
The stranger's eyes fell upon the Hotel Grande Bretagne , which stood a quarter of a mile away from them on the beach . 
That is the Hotel Bretagne , is it not ? he asked . 
Gordon answered him with a nod . 
I can't say , I'm sure , Gordon replied . 
I only arrived here yesterday . 
The stranger bowed his head in recognition of this piece of personal information , and , putting on his helmet , picked up his umbrella as though to continue his stroll . 
As he did so his eyes wandered over the harbor and were arrested with apparent interest by the yacht , which lay a conspicuous object on the blue water . 
He pointed at it with his umbrella . 
One of your English men of war is in the harbor , I see . 
She is very pretty , but not large not so large as many , he said . 
Gordon turned his head obligingly and gazed at the yacht with polite interest . 
Is that a man of war ? I thought it was a yacht , he said . 
I'm not familiar with the English war vessels . 
Ah , indeed ! commented the affable stranger . 
I am French myself , but I think she is a man of war . 
I saw her guns when I passed on the steamer from Gibraltar . 
You may be right , he answered , indifferently . 
Well , I will wish you a good morning , said the Frenchman , hurriedly . 
Good morning , Gordon replied , and taking a cigar from his case , he seated himself again upon the rampart . 
As he walked away the stranger glanced back over his shoulder , but Gordon was apparently absorbed in watching the waves below him , and had lost all interest in his chance acquaintance . 
I wonder what he's up to now ? Gordon mused . 
He was trying to pump me , that's evident , and he certainly recognized the lady , and she apparently did not want to recognize him . 
I wonder if he is a rejected lover , or another conspirator . 
This is a most amusing place , nothing but plots and counterplots and Hello ! he exclaimed aloud . 
The man had moved quickly past Madame Zara , and had started toward the hotel , and Zara had held out her hand to him , as though to entreat him to remain . 
When Gordon reached her the Frenchman had returned , and was supporting her head on his knee and covering her head with her parasol . 
The lady has fainted ! he exclaimed , eagerly . 
His manner was no longer one of idle indolence . 
He was wide awake now and visibly excited . 
The sun has been too much for her , he said . 
It is most dangerous walking about at this time of day . 
Gordon ran down the beach and scooped up some water in his helmet , and dipping his handkerchief in it bathed her temples and cheek . 
He had time to note that she was a very beautiful girl , and the pallor of her face gave it a touch of gentleness that he had not seen there before . 
I will go to the hotel and bring assistance , said the stranger , uneasily , as the woman showed signs of regaining consciousness . 
No , said Gordon , you'll stay where you are and shade her with her umbrella . 
She'll be all right in a minute . 
The girl opened her eyes , and looking up saw Gordon bending over her . 
Give me that umbrella , said Gordon , and go stand over there out of the way . 
The man rose from his knee without showing any resentment and walked some little distance away , where he stood with his arms folded , looking out to sea . 
He seemed much too occupied with something of personal interest to concern himself with a woman's fainting spell . 
The girl lifted herself slowly to her elbow , and then , before Gordon could assist her , rose with a quick , graceful movement and stood erect upon her feet . 
She placed a detaining hand for an instant on the American's arm . 
Thank you very much , she said . 
I am afraid I have been imprudent in going out into the sun . 
Her eyes were fixed upon the Frenchman , who stood moodily staring at the sea and tearing one of his finger nails with his teeth . 
He seemed utterly oblivious of their presence . 
The girl held out her hand for the parasol she had dropped and took it from Gordon with a bow . 
May I walk back with you to your hotel ? he asked . 
Unless this gentleman Thank you , the girl said , in tones which the Frenchman could have easily overheard had he been listening . 
I am quite able to go alone now it is only a step . 
That man is a spy from Messina . 
He is Renauld , the Commander in Chief of their army . 
He must be gotten away from here at once . 
It is a matter for a man to attend to . 
Will you do it ? How do you know this ? Gordon asked . 
How do you know he is General Renauld ? I want to be certain . 
The girl tossed her head impatiently . 
He was pointed out to me at Messina . 
I saw him there in command at a review . 
He has just spoken to me that was what frightened me into that fainting spell . 
I didn't think I was so weak , she said , shaking her head . 
He offered me a bribe to inform him of our plans . 
I tell you he is a spy . 
That's all right , said Gordon , reassuringly you go back to the hotel now and send those guards here on a run . 
I'll make a charge against him and have him locked up until after we sail to night . 
Hurry , please I'll stay here . 
Gordon felt a pleasurable glow of excitement . 
It was his nature to throw himself into everything he did and to at once become a partisan . 
It was a quality which made his writings attractive to the reader , and an object of concern to his editor . 
The Frenchman had turned and was walking in the direction of the city gate . 
Gordon beckoned impatiently to the two soldiers who came running toward him at the hotel , and moved forward to meet them the sooner . 
He took one of them by the wrist and pointed with his other hand at the retreating figure of the Frenchman . 
That man , he said , is one of the King's enemies . 
The King is in danger while that man is here . 
Your duty is to protect the King , so he gives this foreigner into your charge . 
The soldier nodded his head in assent . 
The King himself sent us , he replied . 
I will go with you and tell this man in his own tongue what you are going to do with him . 
They walked hurriedly after the Frenchman , and when they had overtaken him Gordon halted and bowed . 
One moment , please , he said . 
These soldiers have an order for your arrest . 
I speak the language , and if you have anything to say to them I will interpret for you . 
The Frenchman stared from Gordon to the guards and then laughed incredulously but with no great confidence . 
He had much to say , but he demanded to know first why he should be arrested . 
The lady you insulted , Gordon answered , gravely , happened , unfortunately for you , to be one of the King's guests . 
She has complained to him , and he has sent these soldiers to put you where you cannot trouble her again . 
You see , sir , you cannot annoy women with impunity even in this barbarous country . 
Insult her ! I did not insult her , the man retorted . 
That is not the reason I am arrested . 
You annoyed her so much that she fainted . 
I saw you , said Gordon , backing away with the evident purpose of abandoning the foreigner to his guards . 
She has lied , the man cried , either to the King or to me . 
I do not know which , but I am here to find out . 
That is why I came to Tangier , and I intend to learn the truth . 
You've begun rather badly , Gordon answered , as he still retreated . 
In the Civil Prison your field of investigation will be limited . 
The Frenchman took a hasty step toward him , shrugging off the hand one of the soldiers had placed on his shoulder . 
Are you the Prince Kalonay , sir ? he demanded . 
But surely not , he added . 
No , I am not the Prince , Gordon answered . 
I bid you good morning , sir . 
Then you are on the other side , the man called after him eagerly , with a tone of great relief . 
I have been right from the very first . 
It is a double plot , and you are one of that woman's dupes . 
Listen to me I beg of you , listen to me I have a story to tell . 
Gordon paused and looked back at the man over his shoulder , doubtfully . 
It's like the Arabian Nights , he said , with a puzzled smile . 
I am sorry , he added , shaking his head , but I cannot listen now . 
I must not be seen talking to you at all , and everyone can see us here . 
A hundred yards away , on the terrace of the hotel , he saw the King , Madame Zara , Barrat , and Erhaupt standing together watching them . 
If the American leaves him now , we are safe , the King was saying . 
He spoke in a whisper , as though he feared that even at that distance Gordon and the Frenchman could overhear his words . 
But if he remains with him he will find out the truth , and that means ruin . 
Look , he is coming this way , Zara answered . 
The Frenchman raised his eyes and saw the four figures grouped closely together on the terrace . 
See , what did I tell you ? he cried . 
She is with the King now . 
It is a plot within a plot , and I believe you know it , he added , furiously . 
You are one of these brave blackmailers yourself that is why you will not let me speak . 
Something he saw in the strained and eager attitude of the four conspirators moved him to a sudden determination . 
Thank God ! exclaimed the King , piously . 
They have separated , and the boy thinks he is rendering us great service . 
Well , and so he is , the young fool . 
The group on the piazza remained motionless , watching Gordon as he leisurely lit a cigar and stood looking out at the harbor until the Frenchman had disappeared inside the city wall . 
Then he turned and walked slowly after him . 
I do not like that . 
I do not like his following him , said Barrat , suspiciously . 
That is nothing , answered the King . 
He is going to play the spy and see that the man is safely in jail . 
Then he will return and report to us . 
We must congratulate him warmly . 
He follows at a discreet distance , you observe , and keeps himself well out of sight . 
The boy knows better than to compromise himself by being seen in conversation with the man . 
Of course , if Renauld is set free we must say we had no part in his arrest , that the American made the arrest on his own authority . 
What a convenient tool the young man is . 
Why , his coming really frightened us at first , and now now we make a cat's paw of him . 
We undervalue ourselves sometimes , do we not ? He is a nice boy , said Zara . 
I feel rather sorry for him . 
He looked so anxious and distressed when I was so silly as to faint on the beach just now . 
He handled me as tenderly as a woman would have done not that women have generally handled me tenderly , she added . 
I was thinking the simile was rather misplaced , said the King . 
Gordon passed the city wall and heard the gates swing to behind him . 
The Frenchman and his two captors were just ahead , toiling heavily up the steep and narrow street . 
Gordon threw his cigar from him and ran leaping over the huge cobbles to the Frenchman's side and touched him on the shoulder . 
We are out of sight of the hotel , now , General , he said . 
He pointed to the dark , cool recesses of a coffee shop and held back the rug that hung before it . 
Come in here , he said , and tell me that story . 
What we feared would happen , has happened , he said . 
The Frenchman has told Gordon that Zara and Kalonay sold the secret of the expedition , and Gordon will be coming here to warn you of it . 
Now , what are you going to do ? We must act quickly . 
I shall refuse to believe the Frenchman , of course , said the King . 
I shall ask Zara in his presence to answer his charges , and she will tell him he lies . 
That is all there will be of it . 
What does it matter what he says ? We sail at midnight . 
We can keep him quiet until then . 
If he is troublesome I can call for help from this room , and the servants of the hotel and the guards will rush in and find us struggling together . 
We will charge him with an attempt at assassination , and this time he surely will go to jail . 
By to morrow morning we shall be many miles at sea . 
But he can cable to Messina , by way of Gibraltar , and head us off , objected Barrat . 
What can he cable ? demanded the King . 
Nothing the people of the Republic do not already know . 
It is our friends here that must not find us out . 
That is the main thing . 
Thank Heaven ! he exclaimed , Kalonay and Paul are out of the way , and those crazy boys from Paris . 
We will settle it here among ourselves in five minutes . 
And the American ? asked Zara . 
He knows , he will come with him . 
Confound him and his insolence . 
I'll have him in the prison too , if he interferes . 
Or Erhaupt can pick a quarrel with him here and fight it out behind the sand hills before the others get back from their picnic . 
He has done as much for me before . 
She was trembling slightly , and she glanced fearfully from Erhaupt to the King . 
You will not do that , she said . 
And why not , madame ? demanded Louis . 
Because it will be murder , Zara whispered . 
He will murder him as he did that boy in the Park at Pesth . 
What does the woman mean ? growled the German . 
Is she mad ? Send her to her room , Louis . 
You know what I mean , Zara answered , her voice rising , in her excitement . 
You fired before they gave the word . 
Oh , Louis , she cried , you never warned me it might come to this . 
I am afraid to meet that man She gave a sudden cry . 
And Kalonay ! She held out her hands appealingly . 
Indeed , she cried , do not let Kalonay question me . 
Silence ! commanded the King . 
You are acting like a fool . 
He advanced toward her , and clasped her wrist firmly in his hand . 
No nerves , now , he said . 
You shall meet Kalonay , and you shall swear that he is in the plot against me . 
If you fail us now , we are ruined . 
As it is , we are sure to lose the bribe from the Republic , but we may still get Miss Carson's money if you play your part . 
It is your word and the word of the Frenchman against Kalonay's . 
And we have the paper signed by you for Kalonay as evidence . 
Have you got it with you ? Zara bowed her head . 
It is always with me , she answered . 
Good , said the King . 
It will be a difficult chance , but if you stand to your story , and we pretend to believe you , the others may believe you , too . 
But I cannot , Zara cried . 
I tell you if you put me face to face with Kalonay , I shall fail you . 
They will see that I am lying . 
Send me away before they come . 
Tell them I saw the Frenchman , and suspected I had been found out , and that I have gone away . 
Tell them you don't know where I am . 
I believe she's right , Erhaupt said . 
She will do us more harm than good . 
Let her go to her room and wait there . 
She will remain where she is , said the King , sternly . 
And she will keep her courage and her wits about her , or He was interrupted by an exclamation from Barrat . 
Whatever you mean to do , you must do it at once , he said , grimly . 
He was standing at the window which overlooked the beach . 
Here they come now , he continued . 
The American has taken no chances , he is bringing an audience with him . 
The King and Erhaupt ran to the window , and peered over Barrat's shoulder . 
When the King and Erhaupt turned from the window the Countess Zara had disappeared . 
It is better so , said Erhaupt she was so badly frightened she would have told the truth . 
The King stood leaning on the back of a large arm chair . 
Well , the moment has come , it is our last chance , he said . 
Send for the Crown Prince , Baron . 
I shall be discovered in the act of taking a tender farewell of my son . 
Barrat made an eager gesture of dissent . 
I would not do that , he cried . 
If we are to make charges against the jackal do not have the boy present the boy must not hear them . 
You know how Kalonay worships the child , and it would enrage him more to be exposed before the Prince than before all the rest of the world . 
He will be hard enough to handle without that . 
Don't try him too far . 
You are absurd , Barrat , exclaimed the King . 
The boy won't understand what is said . 
No , but the Jackal will , Barrat returned . 
You don't understand him , Louis , he is like a woman he has sentiment and feelings , and when we all turn on him he will act like a madman . 
Keep the boy out of his sight , I tell you . 
It's the only thing he cares for in the world . 
He has been a better father to him than you ever have been . 
That was quite natural that was because it was his duty , said the King , calmly . 
A Kalonay has always been the protector and tutor of the heir apparent . 
If this one chooses to give his heart with his service , that is not my concern . 
Why , confound them , they all think more of the child than they do of me . 
That is why I need him by me now . 
I tell you it will make trouble , he persisted . 
Kalonay will not stand it . 
He and the child are more like comrades than a tutor and his pupil . 
Why , Kalonay would rather sit with the boy in the Champs Elysees and point out the people as they go by than drive at the side of the prettiest woman in Paris . 
He always treats him as though he saw the invisible crown upon his head he will throw over any of us to stay in the nursery and play tin soldiers with him . 
And when he was ill Barrat nodded his head significantly . 
That will do , said the King . 
We have no time to consider the finer feelings of the jackal he is to be sacrificed , and that is all there is of it . 
The prsence of the child may make him more unmanageable , but it will certainly make it easier for me . 
So go , bring the boy here as I bid you . 
Barrat left the room and returned immediately , followed by the Crown Prince and his nurse . 
The Prince was a dark , handsome little fellow of four years . 
To the Crown Prince Kalonay was an awful and wonderful being . 
He was the one person who could make him laugh out of pure happiness and for no reason , as a child should laugh . 
And people who had seen them together asked which of the princes was the older of the two . 
A few moments later , when the conspirators entered the King's salon , preceded by Erhaupt , they found the boy standing by his father's knee . 
It was an effective tableau , and the visitors observed it with varying emotions , but with silence . 
The King rose , taking his son's hand in his , and bowed , looking inquiringly from Barrat to the Prince Kalonay . 
To what do I owe the pleasure of this visit ? he asked . 
Was it discreet of you to come together in this way ? But you are most welcome . 
Place chairs for the ladies , Barrat . 
Kalonay glanced at the others , and they nodded to him as though to make him their spokesman . 
He pointed at Gordon with his cap . 
We are here on the invitation of this gentleman , your Majesty , he said . 
He took it upon himself to send after those of us who had gone into the country , and came in person for the others who remained in town . 
We decided to accompany him here , as he asked us , and to leave it to your Majesty to say whether or not you wished us to remain . 
Kalonay smiled in apology at the King , and the King answered him with a smile . 
The procedure is perhaps unconventional , the King said , but in America they move quickly . 
No doubt our young companion has acted as he thought was for the best . 
If he has taken a liberty , the nature of his news will probably excuse him . 
Gordon did not appear to be the least disturbed by the criticism Kalonay and the King had passed upon his conduct . 
He only smiled pleasantly when the King had finished speaking , and showed no inclination to accept a private audience . 
What I have to say , your Majesty , he began , is this . 
I have learned that all the secrets of your expedition have been sold to the Republic of Messina . 
One of those now present in this room is charged with having sold them . 
Shall I go on , he asked , or do you still think it advisable for anyone to leave the room . 
He paused and glanced from the King to the double row of conspirators , who were standing together in a close semicircle facing the King and himself . 
The instant he ceased speaking there rose from their ranks an outburst of consternation , of anger , and of indignant denial . 
The King's spirits rose within him at the sound , although he frowned and made a gesture as though to command silence . 
Mr. Gordon , this is a serious charge you make , he said , smiling grimly . 
One that may cost you a great deal it might cost you your life perhaps . 
Pardon me , that is not the question , said Gordon . 
That I make charges or run risks in making charges is not important . 
That your expedition has failed before it has even started is , however , of great importance , at least so it sees to me . 
There was a movement in the circle , and Father Paul pushed his way forward from his place beside Miss Carson's chair . 
He was so greatly moved that when he spoke his voice was harsh and broken . 
What is your authority for saying we have failed ? he demanded . 
Gordon bowed gravely and turned and pointed to the Frenchman . 
This gentleman , he said , is General Renauld , Commander in Chief of the army of Messina . 
He knows all that you mean to do . 
The King silenced the second outburst that followed this by rising and holding up his hand . 
Silence ! I believe I can explain , he said . 
He was smiling , and his bearing was easy and so full of assurance that the exclamations and whispers died away on the instant . 
I am afraid I see what has happened , the King said . 
But there need be no cause for alarm . 
This gentleman is , as Mr. Gordon says , the Commander in Chief of the Messinian army , and it is true he suspected that an armed force would invade the island . 
It is not strange that he should have suspected it , and it needed no traitor to enlighten him . 
The visit of Father Paul and the Prince Kalonay in the yacht , and their speeches inciting the people to rebellion , would have warned the government that an expedition might soon follow . 
What has happened is only too evident . 
The King took a step forward and pointed with his hand at the American . 
I gave that man into your keeping , sir , he cried , but I had you watched . 
Instead of placing him in jail you took him to a cafe and remained there with him for three hours , and from that cafe you came directly here to this room . 
Barrat , in the excess of his relief , turned his back sharply on the King , glancing sideways at Erhaupt and shaking his head in speechless admiration . 
He is wonderful , simply wonderful , Erhaupt muttered he would have made a great actor or a great diplomat . 
He is wasted as a King , whispered Barrat . 
There was a menacing movement on the part of the younger men toward Gordon and General Renauld , which the King noted , but which he made no effort to check . 
Neither Gordon nor General Renauld gave any sign that they observed it . 
One moment , please , he began , and then waited until the tumult in the room had ceased . 
Again , I must point out to you , he said , in brisk , business like tones , that we are digressing . 
The important thing is not who did , or did not , sell out the expedition , but that it is in danger of failing altogether . 
What his Majesty says is in part correct . 
His information , he told me , had been sold to the Republic by one who visited the island and who claimed to act for one other . 
I appreciated the importance of what he said , and I also guessed that my word and his unsupported might be doubted , as you have just doubted it . 
So I took the liberty of verifying what General Renauld told me by cabling to the President of Messina . 
This is a copy of the cablegram I sent the President , he said , and to which , with his permission , I signed General Renauld's name . 
It is as follows The President . 
They will not believe you are fully informed . 
Is that quite clear ? he asked . 
Do you follow me ? I have invited the enemy himself to inform you of your plans , and to tell you who has betrayed them . 
His answer , which was received a half hour ago , removes all suspicion from any save those he names . 
General Renauld and myself cease to be of the least consequence in the matter we are only messengers . 
It is the President of Messina who will speak to you now . 
If you still doubt that the secret of your expedition is known to the President you will have to doubt him . 
The King sprang quickly to his feet and struck the arm of his chair sharply with his open hand . 
I shall not permit that message to be read , he said . 
If we have a traitor here , he is a traitor against me . 
And I shall deal with him as I see fit , in private . 
There was a murmur of disappointment and of disapproval even , and the King again struck the arm of his chair for silence . 
Kalonay advanced toward him , shaking his head and holding out his hands in protest . 
Your Majesty , I beseech you , he began . 
This concerns us all , he cried . 
I beg your Majesty to reconsider . 
There is no one in this room who is not in our secret , and whoever has betrayed us must be with us here and now . 
I , who have an interest second only to your own , ask that that cablegram be read . 
There was a murmur of approbation from the conspirators , and exclamations of approval and entreaty . 
Miss Carson , in her excitement , had risen to her feet and was standing holding her mother's hand . 
The King glanced uncertainly at Kalonay , and then turned to Barrat and Erhaupt as if in doubt . 
Gordon's eyes were fixed for a moment on Kalonay with a strange and puzzled expression . 
Then he gave a short sigh of relief , and turning quickly searched the faces of those around him . 
What he saw seemed to confirm him in his purpose , for he folded the paper and placed it in his pocket . 
His Majesty is right , he said . 
I shall not read this . 
Kalonay and Father Paul turned upon him angrily . 
You have no choice in the matter , sir , Kalonay cried . 
It has passed entirely out of your hands . 
I beg your Majesty that the cablegram be read , the priest demanded , in a voice that held less the tone of a request than of a command . 
I shall not read it , persisted Gordon , because the person chiefly concerned is not present . 
That is all the more reason for reading it , said Kalonay . 
The King whispered to Barrat , and the others waited in silence that expressed their interest more clearly than a chorus of questions would have done . 
It shall be as you ask , the King said , at last . 
You may read the message , Mr. Gordon . 
This is it , he said . 
They leave Tangier Tuesday at midnight , they land at daybreak Thursday morning on the south beach below the old breakwater . 
The secret of the expedition was sold us for three hundred thousand francs by the Countess Zara and the Prince Kalonay . 
Gordon stuck the paper in his pocket , and , crossing to Kalonay , held out his hand , with a smile . 
I don't believe it , of course , he said but you would have it . 
Kalonay neither saw the gesture nor heard the words . 
He was turning in bewilderment from the King to Father Paul , and he laughed uncertainly . 
What nonsense is this ? he demanded . 
Whose sorry trick is this ? The lie is not even ingenious . 
General Renauld had not spoken since he had entered the room , but now he advanced in front of Kalonay and faced him with a threatening gesture . 
The President of Messina does not lie , sir , he said , sternly . 
Father Paul pressed his hand heavily on Kalonay's shoulder . 
Do not answer him , he commanded . 
The priest raised his arm to command a hearing . 
Where is Madame Zara ? he cried . 
Ah , where indeed ? echoed the King , sinking back into his chair . 
It is all too evident now she has betrayed us and she has fled . 
As she stood hesitating on the threshold , she swayed slightly and clutched the curtains for a moment as though for support . 
The priest advanced , and led her to the centre of the room . 
She held a folded paper in her hand , which she gave to him in silence . 
You have heard what has passed ? he asked , with a toss of his head toward the heavy curtains . 
The woman raised her head and bowed . 
The priest unfolded the paper . 
Am I to read this ? he asked . 
There was silence in the room while the priest's eyes ran quickly over the paper . 
He crushed it in his hand . 
It is as General Renauld says , he exclaimed . 
He took a step forward . 
No ! You must speak , commanded the priest . 
Answer me ! Zara hesitated , in evident distress , and glanced appealingly at the King but the expression on his face was one of grief and of unrelenting virtue . 
I do , she said , at last , in a low voice . 
He thought the revolution would not succeed he thought it would fail , and so and so and we needed money . 
They made me I , O my God , I cannot I cannot ! she cried , suddenly , sinking on her knees and hiding her face with her hands . 
Kalonay stepped toward her and lifted her gently to her feet but when she looked and saw who it was that held her , she gave a cry and pulled herself free . 
She staggered and would have fallen , had not Gordon caught and held her by the arm . 
The King rose from his chair and pointed at the shrinking figure of the woman . 
Stand aside from her , he said , sternly . 
Why should we pity her , what pity has she shown for us for me ? She has robbed me of my inheritance . 
But let her go , she is a woman we cannot punish her . 
Her sins rest on her own head . 
She did not look at him , but at the men about him . 
There was instantly a cry for order , and the men stood curious and puzzled , watching to see what she would do . 
Gentlemen , she said , in a clear , grave voice . 
Gentlemen , she repeated , sharply , as a few murmurs still greeted her , if you are gentlemen , let this lady speak . 
She crossed quickly and took the Countess Zara by the hand . 
Go on , madame , she urged , gently . 
You say they made you do it . 
Who made you do it ? You have told us a part of the truth . 
Now tell us the whole truth . 
Who made you do it ? she repeated . 
Not the Prince Kalonay , surely . 
You cannot hope to make us believe that . 
Who was it , then ? The King sprang forward with an oath his apathy and mock dignity had fallen from him like a mask . 
His face was mottled , and his vicious little eyes flashed with fear and anger . 
Erhaupt crowded close behind him , crouching like a dog at his heels . 
She has lied enough already , the King cried . 
We will not listen to her . 
Yes , let her go , shouted Erhaupt , with a laugh . 
Gordon stood over him , his fingers twitching at his side . 
Stand up , you bully , he said , and get out of this , before we throw you out . 
Zara's face had turned a pitiful crimson , but her eyes flashed and burned with resolve and indignation . 
She stood erect and menacing , like an angry goddess , and more beautiful in her indignation than they had ever seen her . 
Now , I shall tell them the truth , she said , sternly . 
It was he who made me do it . 
He sent me to Messina , and while the priest and the Prince Kalonay were working in the south , I sold them to the government at the capital . 
Barrat knew it , Erhaupt knew it , the King himself planned it to get money . 
She lies , the King muttered , as though answering their unspoken thoughts , the woman lies . 
There was no movement from the men about him . 
Shame for him , and grief and bitter disappointment for themselves , showed on the face of each . 
The Prince Kalonay stepped from the circle and stood for a moment before the King , regarding him with an expression of grief and bitter irony . 
The King's eyes rose insolently , and faltered , and sank . 
You know how I have served you , Louis . 
You know that I gave up my fortune and my home to go into exile with you , and I did that gladly . 
But I did more than that . 
I did more than any king or any man has the right to expect of any other man . 
I served your idle purposes so well that you , yourself , called me your jackal , the only title your Majesty has ever bestowed that was deserved . 
There is no low thing nor no base thing that I have not done for you . 
To serve your pleasures , to gain you money , I have sunken so low that all the royal blood in Europe could not make me clean . 
But there is a limit to what a man may do for his King , and to the loyalty a King may have the right to demand . 
Their own adventure , in the light of his grief and bitterness of spirit , seemed selfish and little , and they stood motionless , in an awed and sorrowful silence . 
The tense strain of the moment was broken suddenly by the advent on the scene of an actor who had , in the rush of events , been neglected and forgotten . 
The little Crown Prince had stood clinging to his nurse's skirts , an uncomprehending spectator of what was going forward . 
But he now advanced slowly , feeling that the silence invited him to claim his father's notice . 
He halted beside the chair in which Louis sat , his head bent on his hands , and made an effort to draw himself up to his father's knee . 
But the King pushed him down , and hid his face from him . 
The child turned irresolutely , with a troubled countenance , and , looking up , saw that the attention of all was fixed upon him . 
There was a breathless hush in the room as the child , with a happy sigh , ran to his former friend and comrade , and reached up both his arms . 
Kalonay , as though with a great effort , lowered his eyes to the upturned face of the child below him , but held himself back and stood stiffly erect . 
A sharp shake of the head , as though he argued with himself , was the only sign he gave of the struggle that was going on within him . 
Gentlemen , Kalonay cried , his voice laughing through his tears , we shall still sail for the island of Messina . 
They shall not say of us that we visited the sins of the father on a child . 
I was weak , my friends , and I was credulous . 
I thought I could break the tradition of centuries . 
But our instincts are stronger than our pride , and the House I have always served I shall serve to the last . 
He swung the Crown Prince high upon his shoulder , and held his other arm above his head . 
You will help me place this child upon his throne , he commanded , and the room rang with cheers . 
You will appeal to his people , he cried . 
To the yacht ! he shouted . 
His face was radiant with triumph and content . 
He regarded her steadily for a moment , as though he could not find words to tell his feelings . 
You had faith in me , he said , at last . 
Can I ever make you understand how much that means to me ? When all had turned against me you trusted me , you had faith in me , in the King's jackal . 
Silence you must never say that again , the girl commanded , gently . 
You have shown it to be the lie it always was . 
We shall call you the Defender of the Faith now you are the guardian of a King . 
She smiled at the little boy in his arms , and made a slight courtesy to them both . 
You have outgrown your old title , she said you have a proud one now , you will be the Prince Regent . 
Kalonay , with the child in his arms , and Miss Carson were standing quite alone . 
The sun had set , and the apartment was in semi darkness . 
Will you give it me ? he begged . 
Gordon at this moment moved across the room and bowed , making a deep obeisance to the child . 
Might I be permitted , he asked , to kiss his Royal Highness ? I should like to boast of the fact , later , he explained . 
The Crown Prince turned his sad , wise eyes on him in silence , and gravely extended a little hand . 
You may kiss his Highness's hand , said Kalonay , smiling . 
Gordon laughed and pressed the fingers in his own . 
When you talk like that , Kalonay , he said , you make me feel like Alice in the court room with the Kings and Queens around her . 
A dozen times this afternoon I've felt like saying , After all , they are only a pack of cards . 
Kalonay shook his head and glanced toward Miss Carson for enlightenment . 
I don't understand , he said . 
No , you couldn't be expected to , said Gordon You have not been educated up to that . 
It is the point of view . 
He stuck out the middle finger of his hand , and drove it three times deliberately into the side of the Crown Prince . 
The child gasped and stared open mouthed at the friendly stranger , and then catching the laugh in Gordon's eyes , laughed with him . 
Now , said Gordon , I shall say that I have dug the King of Messina in the ribs that is even better than having kissed him . 
God bless your Royal Highness , he said , bowing gravely . 
You may find me disrespectful at times , he added but then , you must remember , I am going to risk a valuable life for you . 
At least it's an extremely valuable one to me . 
Kalonay looked at Gordon for a moment with serious consideration , and then held out his hand . 
You also had faith in me , he said . 
Or on how we die , Kalonay added . 
I am glad to hear you speak so . 
If you wish , I shall attach you to the person of the Crown Prince . 
You shall be on the staff with the rank of Colonel . 
Gordon made a low and sweeping bow . 
Rise , Sir Archibald Gordon , he said . 
I thank you , he added . 
We shall strive to please . 
Miss Carson shook her head at him , and sighed in protest . 
Will you always take everything as a joke , Archie ? she said . 
My dear Patty , he answered , the situation is much too serious to take in any other way . 
Colonel Gordon , he said , in a tone of assured authority , I give the crown of Messina into your keeping . 
You will convey it , with all proper regard for its dignity , safely on board the yacht , and then bring it at once to me . 
Gordon crossed the room and picked up the crown from the table , lifting it with both hands , the King and Barrat watching him in silence as he did so . 
Gordon raised the crown and balanced it on his finger tips , regarding it severely and shaking his head . 
There are very few of these left in the world now , your Majesty , he said , cheerfully , and the number is getting smaller every year . 
He turned his head and looked inquiringly at the King , but Louis made no sign that he heard him . 
What ? he asked I beg your pardon , I thought you spoke . 
But the King continued scornfully silent , and only a contemptuous snort from Barrat expressed his feelings . 
There ought to be a sofa cushion to go with this , or something to carry it on , he said , in a grieved tone . 
You see , I am new at this sort of thing . 
Perhaps your Majesty would kindly give me some expert information . 
How do you generally carry it ? The King's eyes snapped open and shut again . 
On my head , he said , grimly . 
Gordon laughed in great relief . 
Now , do you know , I like that , he cried . 
I am glad to see you take it so cheerfully . 
Well , I must be going , sir , he added , nodding , and moving toward the door . 
As someone says , It's always morning somewhere , and in my country there's just as good men out of office as there are in it . 
While the sound of Gordon's footsteps died away across the marble terrace , the King and Barrat remained motionless and silent . 
Niccolas , the King's majordomo , stood between the doors , a black silhouette against the glare of many candles . 
His Majesty is served ! he said . 
The King rose with a gentle sigh , and nodded to his companion . 
Come , Barrat , he said , taking the baron's arm in his . 
The rascals have robbed us of our throne , but , thank God , they have had the grace to leave me my appetite . 
