Note I have made the following changes to the text PAGE LINE ORIGINAL CHANGED TO wife wife . 
is ! is ! it she if she antimated animated larity , liarity , distance distance . 
children , firt first ention ) . 
indgination indignation The Kreutzer Sonata and Other Stories BY COUNT LEO TOLSTOI Author of Resurrection , Life is Worth Living , Ivan the Fool , Etc . 
On comparing with the original Russian some English translations of Count Tolstoi's works , published both in this country and in England , I concluded that they were far from being accurate . 
A satisfactory translation can be made only by one who understands the language and SPIRIT of the Russian people . 
The story of Ivan the Fool portrays Tolstoi's communistic ideas , involving the abolition of military forces , middlemen , despotism , and money . 
Instead of these he would establish on earth a kingdom in which each and every person would become a worker and producer . 
A Lost Opportunity is a singularly true picture of peasant life , which evinces a deep study of the subject on the part of the writer . 
In this story also he has presented many traits which are common to human nature throughout the world , and this gives an added interest to the book . 
The language is simple and picturesque , and the characters are drawn with remarkable fidelity to nature . 
if he had lived in accordance with the scriptural injunction to forgive his brother's sins and seek not for revenge . 
It is a true and powerful reproduction of an element in Russian life but little written about heretofore . 
Like the other stories of this great writer , Polikushka has a moral to which we all might profitably give heed . 
He illustrates the awful consequences of intemperance , and concludes that only kind treatment can reform the victims of alcohol . 
For much valuable assistance in the work of these translations , I am deeply indebted to the bright English scholarship of my devoted wife . 
CHAPTER I. Travellers left and entered our car at every stopping of the train . 
This gentleman , during almost all the journey thus far , had entered into conversation with no fellow traveller , as if he carefully avoided all acquaintance . 
When spoken to , he answered curtly and decisively , and began to look out of the car window obstinately . 
Yet it seemed to me that the solitude weighed upon him . 
At first the clerk had remarked that the seat opposite was occupied , and the old man had answered that he should get out at the first station . 
I was sitting not far from these two travellers , and , as the train was not in motion , I could catch bits of their conversation when others were not talking . 
They talked first of the prices of goods and the condition of business they referred to a person whom they both knew then they plunged into the fair at Nijni Novgorod . 
The clerk began to laugh noisily . 
The old man laughed too , showing two long yellow teeth . 
Their conversation not interesting me , I left the car to stretch my legs . 
At the door I met the lawyer and his lady . 
You have no more time , the lawyer said to me . 
The second bell is about to ring . 
Indeed I had scarcely reached the rear of the train when the bell sounded . 
As I entered the car again , the lawyer was talking with his companion in an animated fashion . 
The merchant , sitting opposite them , was taciturn . 
And then she squarely declared to her husband , said the lawyer with a smile , as I passed by them , that she neither could nor would live with him , because . 
And he continued , but I did not hear the rest of the sentence , my attention being distracted by the passing of the conductor and a new traveller . 
When silence was restored , I again heard the lawyer's voice . 
The conversation had passed from a special case to general considerations . 
And afterward comes discord , financial difficulties , disputes between the two parties , and the couple separate . 
In the good old days that seldom happened . 
Is it not so ? asked the lawyer of the two merchants , evidently trying to drag them into the conversation . 
Just then the train started , and the old man , without answering , took off his cap , and crossed himself three times while muttering a prayer . 
When he had finished , he clapped his cap far down on his head , and said Yes , sir , that happened in former times also , but not as often . 
In the present day it is bound to happen more frequently . 
People have become too learned . 
The lawyer made some reply to the old man , but the train , ever increasing its speed , made such a clatter upon the rails that I could no longer hear distinctly . 
As I was interested in what the old man was saying , I drew nearer . 
My neighbor , the nervous gentleman , was evidently interested also , and , without changing his seat , he lent an ear . 
But what harm is there in education ? asked the lady , with a smile that was scarcely perceptible . 
Women did not know whether they would love or would be loved , and they were married to the first comer , and suffered all their lives . 
Then you think it was better so ? she continued , evidently addressing the lawyer and myself , and not at all the old man . 
People have become too learned , repeated the last , looking at the lady with contempt , and leaving her question unanswered . 
I should be curious to know how you explain the correlation between education and conjugal differences , said the lawyer , with a slight smile . 
The merchant wanted to make some reply , but the lady interrupted him . 
No , those days are past . 
The lawyer cut short her words Let him express his thought . 
Because there is no more fear , replied the old man . 
But how will you marry people who do not love each other ? Only animals can be coupled at the will of a proprietor . 
You are wrong to say that , madam , said the old man . 
The animals are beasts , but man has received the law . 
But , nevertheless , how is one to live with a man when there is no love ? said the lady , evidently excited by the general sympathy and attention . 
Formerly no such distinctions were made , said the old man , gravely . 
Only now have they become a part of our habits . 
As soon as the least thing happens , the wife says 'I release you . 
I am going to leave your house . 
Even among the moujiks this fashion has become acclimated . 
'There , she says , 'here are your shirts and drawers . 
I am going off with Vanka . 
His hair is curlier than yours . 
Just go talk with them . 
And yet the first rule for the wife should be fear . 
What fear ? said the lady . 
This fear , the wife must fear her husband that is what fear . 
Oh , that , my little father , that is ended . 
No , madam , that cannot end . 
Yes , you men think so , replied the lady , without surrendering , and turning toward us . 
You have given yourself liberty . 
As for woman , you wish to keep her in the seraglio . 
To you , everything is permissible . 
Is it not so ? Oh , man , that's another affair . 
His tone of authority evidently subjugated his hearers . 
Even the lady felt crushed , but she did not surrender . 
Yes , but you will admit , I think , that woman is a human being , and has feelings like her husband . 
This unexpected argument pleased the clerk , and he uttered a murmur of approbation . 
Oh , no , she will not be forced , said the lady . 
Where there is no love , one cannot be obliged to love in spite of herself . 
And if the wife deceives her husband , what is to be done ? said the lawyer . 
That should not happen , said the old man . 
He must have his eyes about him . 
And if it does happen , all the same ? You will admit that it does happen ? It happens among the upper classes , not among us , answered the old man . 
And if any husband is found who is such a fool as not to rule his wife , he will not have robbed her . 
But no scandal , nevertheless . 
Love or not , but do not disturb the household . 
Every husband can govern his wife . 
He has the necessary power . 
It is only the imbecile who does not succeed in doing so . 
The wife loved to amuse herself , and began to go astray . 
He is a capable and serious man . 
First , it was with the book keeper . 
The husband tried to bring her back to reason through kindness . 
She did not change her conduct . 
She plunged into all sorts of beastliness . 
She began to steal his money . 
He beat her , but she grew worse and worse . 
, she went in succession for her caresses . 
What could the employer do ? He has dropped her entirely , and now he lives as a bachelor . 
As for her , she is dragging in the depths . 
He is an imbecile , said the old man . 
If from the first he had not allowed her to go in her own fashion , and had kept a firm hand upon her , she would be living honestly , no danger . 
Liberty must be taken away from the beginning . 
Do not trust yourself to your horse upon the highway . 
Do not trust yourself to your wife at home . 
At that moment the conductor passed , asking for the tickets for the next station . 
The old man gave up his . 
Yes , the feminine sex must be dominated in season , else all will perish . 
And you yourselves , at Kounavino , did you not lead a gay life with the pretty girls ? asked the lawyer with a smile . 
Oh , that's another matter , said the merchant , severely . 
Good by , he added , rising . 
He wrapped himself in his cloak , lifted his cap , and , taking his bag , left the car . 
Scarcely had the old man gone when a general conversation began . 
There's a little Old Testament father for you , said the clerk . 
He is a Domostroy , said the lady . 
What savage ideas about a woman and marriage ! The Domostroy is a matrimonial code of the days of Ivan the Terrible . 
Yes , gentlemen , said the lawyer , we are still a long way from the European ideas upon marriage . 
First , the rights of woman , then free marriage , then divorce , as a question not yet solved . 
The clerk listened and smiled , with the air of one accustomed to store in his memory all intelligent conversation that he hears , in order to make use of it afterwards . 
But what is this love that consecrates marriage ? said , suddenly , the voice of the nervous and taciturn gentleman , who , unnoticed by us , had approached . 
He was standing with his hand on the seat , and evidently agitated . 
His face was red , a vein in his forehead was swollen , and the muscles of his cheeks quivered . 
What is this love that consecrates marriage ? he repeated . 
What love ? said the lady . 
The ordinary love of husband and wife . 
And how , then , can ordinary love consecrate marriage ? continued the nervous gentleman , still excited , and with a displeased air . 
He seemed to wish to say something disagreeable to the lady . 
She felt it , and began to grow agitated . 
How ? Why , very simply , said she . 
The nervous gentleman seized the word as it left her lips . 
But every marriage which is not based on a natural attachment , on love , has in it nothing that is morally obligatory . 
Is not that the idea that you intended to convey ? he asked the lady . 
The lady , with a nod of her head , expressed her approval of this translation of her thoughts . 
Then , resumed the lawyer , continuing his remarks . 
But the nervous gentleman , evidently scarcely able to contain himself , without allowing the lawyer to finish , asked Yes , sir . 
But what are we to understand by this love that alone consecrates marriage ? Everybody knows what love is , said the lady . 
But I don't know , and I should like to know how you define it . 
How ? It is very simple , said the lady . 
And she seemed thoughtful , and then said Love . 
is a preference for one man or one woman to the exclusion of all others . 
A preference for how long ? . 
For a month , two days , or half an hour ? said the nervous gentleman , with special irritation . 
No , permit me , you evidently are not talking of the same thing . 
Yes , I am talking absolutely of the same thing . 
Of the preference for one man or one woman to the exclusion of all others . 
But I ask a preference for how long ? For how long ? For a long time , for a life time sometimes . 
But that happens only in novels . 
In life this preference for one to the exclusion of all others lasts in rare cases several years , oftener several months , or even weeks , days , hours . 
Oh , no , no , permit me , said all three of us at the same time . 
The clerk himself uttered a monosyllable of disapproval . 
Yes , I know , he said , shouting louder than all of us you are talking of what is believed to exist , and I am talking of what is . 
Every man feels what you call love toward each pretty woman he sees , and very little toward his wife . 
That is the origin of the proverb , and it is a true one , 'Another's wife is a white swan , and ours is bitter wormwood . 
No , that does not exist . 
Even if it should be admitted that Menelaus had preferred Helen all his life , Helen would have preferred Paris and so it has been , is , and will be eternally . 
And it cannot be otherwise , just as it cannot happen that , in a load of chick peas , two peas marked with a special sign should fall side by side . 
Further , this is not only an improbability , but it is certain that a feeling of satiety will come to Helen or to Menelaus . 
The whole difference is that to one it comes sooner , to the other later . 
It is only in stupid novels that it is written that 'they loved each other all their lives . 
And none but children can believe it . 
To talk of loving a man or woman for life is like saying that a candle can burn forever . 
But you are talking of physical love . 
Do you not admit a love based upon a conformity of ideals , on a spiritual affinity ? Why not ? But in that case it is not necessary to procreate together . 
The point is that this conformity of ideals is not met among old people , but among young and pretty persons , said he , and he began to laugh disagreeably . 
Permit me , said the lawyer . 
The facts contradict your words . 
We see that marriage exists , that all humanity at least the larger portion lives conjugally , and that many husbands and wives honestly end a long life together . 
The nervous gentleman smiled ill naturedly . 
But in our day marriage is only a violence and falsehood . 
No , pardon me , said the lawyer . 
I say only that marriages have existed and do exist . 
For such people marriages exist , but to us they are only hypocrisy and violence . 
, the haphazard sin of certain raskolniks . 
The old foundation is shattered we must build a new one , but we must not preach debauchery . 
He grew so warm that all became silent , looking at him in astonishment . 
And yet the transition state is terrible . 
People feel that haphazard sin is inadmissible . 
When it is falsehood alone , it is easily endured . 
The husband and wife simply deceive the world by professing to live monogamically . 
If they really are polygamous and polyandrous , it is bad , but acceptable . 
All were silent , but we felt ill at ease . 
Yes , these critical episodes happen in marital life . 
For instance , there is the Posdnicheff affair , said the lawyer , wishing to stop the conversation on this embarrassing and too exciting ground . 
Have you read how he killed his wife through jealousy ? The lady said that she had not read it . 
The nervous gentleman said nothing , and changed color . 
I see that you have divined who I am , said he , suddenly , after a pause . 
No , I have not had that pleasure . 
It is no great pleasure . 
He blushed , then turned pale again . 
What matters it , however ? said he . 
Excuse me , I do not wish to embarrass you . 
And he resumed his old seat . 
I resumed mine , also . 
The lawyer and the lady whispered together . 
I was sitting beside Posdnicheff , and I maintained silence . 
I desired to talk to him , but I did not know how to begin , and thus an hour passed until we reached the next station . 
There the lawyer and the lady went out , as well as the clerk . 
We were left alone , Posdnicheff and I. They say it , and they lie , or they do not understand , said Posdnicheff . 
Of what are you talking ? Why , still the same thing . 
He leaned his elbows upon his knees , and pressed his hands against his temples . 
Love , marriage , family , all lies , lies , lies . 
He rose , lowered the lamp shade , lay down with his elbows on the cushion , and closed his eyes . 
He remained thus for a minute . 
Is it disagreeable to you to remain with me , now that you know who I am ? Oh , no . 
You have no desire to sleep ? Not at all . 
Then do you want me to tell you the story of my life ? Just then the conductor passed . 
He followed him with an ill natured look , and did not begin until he had gone again . 
Then during all the rest of the story he did not stop once . 
Even the new travellers as they entered did not stop him . 
His face , while he was talking , changed several times so completely that it bore positively no resemblance to itself as it had appeared just before . 
His eyes , his mouth , his moustache , and even his beard , all were new . 
And then , I know not how , it changed again , and became unrecognizable . 
Well , I am going then to tell you my life , and my whole frightful history , yes , frightful . 
And the story itself is more frightful than the outcome . 
He became silent for a moment , passed his hands over his eyes , and began To be understood clearly , the whole must be told from the beginning . 
It must be told how and why I married , and what I was before my marriage . 
First , I will tell you who I am . 
The son of a rich gentleman of the steppes , an old marshal of the nobility , I was a University pupil , a graduate of the law school . 
I married in my thirtieth year . 
But before talking to you of my marriage , I must tell you how I lived formerly , and what ideas I had of conjugal life . 
I led the life of so many other so called respectable people , that is , in debauchery . 
And like the majority , while leading the life of a debauche , I was convinced that I was a man of irreproachable morality . 
In consequence of this , I had built from childhood a dream of high and poetical conjugal life . 
My wife was to be perfection itself , our mutual love was to be incomparable , the purity of our conjugal life stainless . 
I thought thus , and all the time I marvelled at the nobility of my projects . 
At the same time , I passed ten years of my adult life without hurrying toward marriage , and I led what I called the well regulated and reasonable life of a bachelor . 
I was proud of it before my friends , and before all men of my age who abandoned themselves to all sorts of special refinements . 
The women with whom I had relations did not belong to me alone , and I asked of them nothing but the pleasure of the moment . 
In all this I saw nothing abnormal . 
On the contrary , from the fact that I did not engage my heart , but paid in cash , I supposed that I was honest . 
I avoided those women who , by attaching themselves to me , or presenting me with a child , could bind my future . 
Moreover , perhaps there may have been children or attachments but I so arranged matters that I could not become aware of them . 
And living thus , I considered myself a perfectly honest man . 
I remember that I once tortured myself exceedingly for having forgotten to pay a woman who probably had given herself to me through love . 
I only became tranquil again when , having sent her the money , I had thus shown her that I did not consider myself as in any way bound to her . 
Oh , do not shake your head as if you were in agreement with me . 
All of you , and you especially , if you are not a rare exception , have the same ideas that I had then . 
If you are in agreement with me , it is now only . 
Formerly you did not think so . 
No more did I and , if I had been told what I have just told you , that which has happened would not have happened . 
However , it is all the same . 
CHAPTER V. Yes for ten years I lived the most revolting existence , while dreaming of the noblest love , and even in the name of that love . 
Yes , I want to tell you how I killed my wife , and for that I must tell you how I debauched myself . 
I killed her before I knew her . 
I killed THE wife when I first tasted sensual joys without love , and then it was that I killed MY wife . 
Thus you will see where and how began the drama that has led me to misfortune . 
It is necessary to go back to my sixteenth year , when I was still at school , and my elder brother a first year student . 
I had not yet known women but , like all the unfortunate children of our society , I was already no longer innocent . 
I was tortured , as you were , I am sure , and as are tortured ninety nine one hundredths of our boys . 
I lived in a frightful dread , I prayed to God , and I prostrated myself . 
I was already perverted in imagination , but the last steps remained to be taken . 
Never had I heard from my elders that what I thus did was bad . 
Thus , from my elders , whose opinion I esteemed , I had never heard that this was reprehensible . 
On the contrary , I had heard people whom I respected say that it was good . 
I had heard that my struggles and my sufferings would be appeased after this act . 
I had heard it and read it . 
I had heard from my elders that it was excellent for the health , and my friends have always seemed to believe that it contained I know not what merit and valor . 
So nothing is seen in it but what is praiseworthy . 
As for the danger of disease , it is a foreseen danger . 
Does not the government guard against it ? And even science corrupts us . 
How so , science ? I asked . 
Why , the doctors , the pontiffs of science . 
Besides , it is not a question of that . 
No , no woman seduced me . 
which I was led to believe were characteristic of my age , just as I had begun to drink and smoke . 
And yet there was in this first fall something peculiar and touching . 
I remember that straightway I was filled with such a profound sadness that I had a desire to weep , to weep over the loss forever of my relations with woman . 
Yes , my relations with woman were lost forever . 
Pure relations with women , from that time forward , I could no longer have . 
Just as the drunkard and the victim of the morphine habit may be recognized by their face and manner , so we may recognize a voluptuary . 
He may repress himself and struggle , but nevermore will he enjoy simple , pure , and fraternal relations toward woman . 
By his way of glancing at a young woman one may at once recognize a voluptuary and I became a voluptuary , and I have remained one . 
Yes , so it is and that went farther and farther with all sorts of variations . 
My God ! when I remember all my cowardly acts and bad deeds , I am frightened . 
And I remember that 'me' who , during that period , was still the butt of his comrades' ridicule on account of his innocence . 
She was one of two daughters of a landed proprietor of Penza , formerly very rich and since ruined . 
To tell the truth , without false modesty , they pursued me and finally captured me . 
laid all sorts of traps , and one of these , a trip in a boat , decided my future . 
I made up my mind at the end of the aforesaid trip one night , by moonlight , on our way home , while I was sitting beside her . 
I admired her slender body , whose charming shape was moulded by a jersey , and her curling hair , and I suddenly concluded that THIS WAS SHE . 
It seemed to me on that beautiful evening that she understood all that I thought and felt , and I thought and felt the most elevating things . 
And all know it , and pretend not to know it . 
And if anything is said of these things , such IMPROPER novels are not allowed in the hands of young girls . 
They pretend it so carefully that they succeed in convincing themselves of it . 
As for the poor young girls , they believe it quite seriously , just as my poor wife believed it . 
It was for this last reason , for that matter , that I felt the necessity of communicating these memoirs to her . 
I can still see her fright , her despair , her bewilderment , when she had learned and understood it . 
She was on the point of breaking the engagement . 
It was a good thing for me . 
Besides , it makes no difference . 
I was saying that in these cases it is the poor young girls who are deceived . 
They know what bait must be held out to people for themselves and their daughters . 
We men sin through ignorance , and a determination not to learn . 
She will prefer the first alternative . 
And these things she knows by reason , where as the maiden knows them only by instinct , like the animal . 
Hence these abominable jerseys , these artificial humps on the back , these bare shoulders , arms , and throats . 
You say that the women of our society live for a different interest from that which actuates fallen women . 
And I say no , and I am going to prove it to you . 
The former attract by all possible means so do the latter . 
No difference , none whatever ! Yes , and I , too , was captivated by jerseys , bustles , and curly hair . 
And it was very easy to capture me , since I was brought up under artificial conditions , like cucumbers in a hothouse . 
Our too abundant nourishment , together with complete physical idleness , is nothing but systematic excitement of the imagination . 
The men of our society are fed and kept like reproductive stallions . 
All our idyls and marriage , all , are the result for the most part of our eating . 
Does that astonish you ? For my part , I am astonished that we do not see it . 
Not far from my estate this spring some moujiks were working on a railway embankment . 
You know what a peasant's food is , bread , kvass , onions . 
With this frugal nourishment he lives , he is alert , he makes light work in the fields . 
But on the railway this bill of fare becomes cacha and a pound of meat . 
Only he restores this meat by sixteen hours of labor pushing loads weighing twelve hundred pounds . 
Kvass , a sort of cider . 
And we , who eat two pounds of meat and game , we who absorb all sorts of heating drinks and food , how do we expend it ? In sensual excesses . 
I , too , fell in love , as everybody does , and there were transports , emotions , poesy but really all this passion was prepared by mamma and the dressmakers . 
If there had been no trips in boats , no well fitted garments , etc . 
, if my wife had worn some shapeless blouse , and I had seen her thus at her home , I should not have been seduced . 
And note , also , this falsehood , of which all are guilty the way in which marriages are made . 
What could there be more natural ? The young girl is marriageable , she should marry . 
What simpler , provided the young person is not a monster , and men can be found with a desire to marry ? Well , no , here begins a new hypocrisy . 
Formerly , when the maiden arrived at a favorable age , her marriage was arranged by her parents . 
That was done , that is done still , throughout humanity , among the Chinese , the Hindoos , the Mussulmans , and among our common people also . 
Things are so managed in at least ninety nine per cent . 
of the families of the entire human race . 
Only we riotous livers have imagined that this way was bad , and have invented another . 
And this other , what is it ? It is this . 
The young girls are seated , and the gentlemen walk up and down before them , as in a bazaar , and make their choice . 
The maidens wait and think , but do not dare to say 'Take me , young man , me and not her . 
Look at these shoulders and the rest . 
But what is to be done ? said I to him . 
Shall the woman make the advances ? I do not know . 
But , if it is a question of equality , let the equality be complete . 
Though it has been found that to contract marriages through the agency of match makers is humiliating , it is nevertheless a thousand times preferable to our system . 
There the rights and the chances are equal here the woman is a slave , exhibited in the market . 
But say to a mother or to her daughter that they are engaged only in a hunt for a husband . 
'Shall you go to the Exposition ? How charming it is ! 'And the troika , and the plays , and the symphony . 
Ah , how adorable ! 'My Lise is passionately fond of music . 
'And you , why do you not share these convictions ? And through all this verbiage , all have but one single idea 'Take me , take my Lise . 
No , me ! Only try ! CHAPTER IX . 
Everybody , on the contrary , complains that women have not sufficient rights , that they are in subjection . 
That's it that's it exactly , said he , vivaciously . 
See the Jews with their power of money , they avenge their subjection , just as the women do . 
'Ah ! you wish us to be only merchants ? All right remaining merchants , we will get possession of you , say the Jews . 
'Ah ! you wish us to be only objects of sensuality ? All right by the aid of sensuality we will bend you beneath our yoke , say the women . 
You say that that would be abnormal . 
As soon as she is in possession of her means , she abuses them , and acquires a terrible supremacy . 
But where do you see this exceptional power ? Where ? Why , everywhere , in everything . 
Go see the stores in the large cities . 
There are millions there , millions . 
It is impossible to estimate the enormous quantity of labor that is expended there . 
In nine tenths of these stores is there anything whatever for the use of men ? All the luxury of life is demanded and sustained by woman . 
Count the factories the greater part of them are engaged in making feminine ornaments . 
Millions of men , generations of slaves , die toiling like convicts simply to satisfy the whims of our companions . 
Women , like queens , keep nine tenths of the human race as prisoners of war , or as prisoners at hard labor . 
And all this because they have been humiliated , because they have been deprived of rights equal to those which men enjoy . 
They take revenge for our sensuality they catch us in their nets . 
Yes , the whole thing is there . 
Women have made of themselves such a weapon to act upon the senses that a young man , and even an old man , cannot remain tranquil in their presence . 
Watch a popular festival , or our receptions or ball rooms . 
Woman well knows her influence there . 
You will see it in her triumphant smiles . 
As soon as a young man advances toward a woman , directly he falls under the influence of this opium , and loses his head . 
But now it simply terrifies me . 
And this is not a joke , by any means . 
As well set traps along our public streets , or worse than that . 
CHAPTER X. That , then , was the way in which I was captured . 
I was in love , as it is called not only did she appear to me a perfect being , but I considered myself a white blackbird . 
It is a commonplace fact that there is no one so low in the world that he cannot find some one viler than himself , and consequently puff with pride and self contentment . 
I was in that situation . 
I did not marry for money . 
Interest was foreign to the affair , unlike the marriages of most of my acquaintances , who married either for money or for relations . 
First , I was rich , she was poor . 
Yes , I was a wretch , convinced that I was an angel . 
The period of my engagement did not last long . 
I cannot remember those days without shame . 
What an abomination ! It is generally agreed that love is a moral sentiment , a community of thought rather than of sense . 
If that is the case , this community of thought ought to find expression in words and conversation . 
It was extremely difficult for us to talk with each other . 
Literally , we did not know what to say to each other . 
All that we could think of concerning the life that was before us and our home was said . 
And then what ? If we had been animals , we should have known that we had not to talk . 
, but believes in what he promises . 
Out of a hundred men , there is scarcely one who has not married before , and out of fifty scarcely one who has not made up his mind to deceive his wife . 
The great majority look upon this journey to the church as a condition necessary to the possession of a certain woman . 
Think then of the supreme significance which material details must take on . 
Is it not a sort of sale , in which a maiden is given over to a debauche , the sale being surrounded with the most agreeable details ? CHAPTER XI . 
All marry in this way . 
And I did like the rest . 
One day I was walking among the shows in Paris , when , attracted by a sign , I entered an establishment to see a bearded woman and a water dog . 
The woman was a man in disguise , and the dog was an ordinary dog , covered with a sealskin , and swimming in a bath . 
It must be the same with the persons who have passed through the abominations of the honeymoon . 
They do not dare to undeceive their neighbor . 
And I did the same . 
The felicities of the honeymoon do not exist . 
On the contrary , it is a period of uneasiness , of shame , of pity , and , above all , of ennui , of ferocious ennui . 
It is something like the feeling of a youth when he is beginning to smoke . 
He desires to vomit he drivels , and swallows his drivel , pretending to enjoy this little amusement . 
What ! Vice ? I said . 
But you are talking of one of the most natural things . 
Natural ! No , I consider on the contrary that it is against nature , and it is I , a perverted man , who have reached this conviction . 
My sister married , when very young , a man twice her own age , and who was utterly corrupt . 
You say natural ? It is natural to eat that is a pleasant , agreeable function , which no one is ashamed to perform from the time of his birth . 
No , it is not natural . 
A pure young girl wants one thing , children . 
Children , yes , not a lover . 
But , said I , with astonishment , how would the human race continue ? But what is the use of its continuing ? he rejoined , vehemently . 
What ! What is the use ? But then we should not exist . 
And why is it necessary that we should exist ? Why , to live , to be sure . 
Only they do not express themselves well . 
They say that Humanity should annihilate itself to avoid its sufferings , that its object should be to destroy itself . 
Now the object of Humanity cannot be to avoid sufferings by annihilation , since suffering is the result of activity . 
The object of activity cannot consist in suppressing its consequences . 
The object of Man , as of Humanity , is happiness , and , to attain it , Humanity has a law which it must carry out . 
This law consists in the union of beings . 
This union is thwarted by the passions . 
And that is why , if the passions disappear , the union will be accomplished . 
Humanity then will have carried out the law , and will have no further reason to exist . 
And before Humanity carries out the law ? In the meantime it will have the sign of the unfulfilled law , and the existence of physical love . 
As long as this love shall exist , and because of it , generations will be born , one of which will finally fulfil the law . 
When at last the law shall be fulfilled , the Human Race will be annihilated . 
At least it is impossible for us to conceive of Life in the perfect union of people . 
Strange theory ! cried I. Strange in what ? According to all the doctrines of the Church , the world will have an end . 
Science teaches the same fatal conclusions . 
Why , then , is it strange that the same thing should result from moral Doctrine ? 'Let those who can , contain , said Christ . 
And I take this passage literally , as it is written . 
That morality may exist between people in their worldly relations , they must make complete chastity their object . 
In tending toward this end , man humiliates himself . 
When he shall reach the last degree of humiliation , we shall have moral marriage . 
Think what a perversion of ideas must arise when the happiest situation of man , liberty , chastity , is looked upon as something wretched and ridiculous . 
The highest ideal , the best situation of woman , to be pure , to be a vestal , a virgin , excites fear and laughter in our society . 
I saw , then , in this nothing bad or shameful , and , hoping for great joys , I began to live the honeymoon . 
And very certainly none of these joys followed . 
But I had faith , and was determined to have them , cost what they might . 
But the more I tried to secure them , the less I succeeded . 
All this time I felt anxious , ashamed , and weary . 
Soon I began to suffer . 
I believe that on the third or fourth day I found my wife sad and asked her the reason . 
I began to embrace her , which in my opinion was all that she could desire . 
She put me away with her hand , and began to weep . 
At what ? She could not tell me . 
She was filled with sorrow , with anguish . 
Probably her tortured nerves had suggested to her the truth about the baseness of our relations , but she found no words in which to say it . 
I began to question her she answered that she missed her absent mother . 
It seemed to me that she was not telling the truth . 
I sought to console her by maintaining silence in regard to her parents . 
I did not imagine that she felt herself simply overwhelmed , and that her parents had nothing to do with her sorrow . 
She did not listen to me , and I accused her of caprice . 
I began to laugh at her gently . 
She dried her tears , and began to reproach me , in hard and wounding terms , for my selfishness and cruelty . 
Her whole face expressed hatred , and hatred of me . 
I cannot describe to you the fright which this sight gave me . 
I came in conflict with an immovable and cold hostility , so that , having no time to reflect , I was seized with keen irritation . 
The impression of this first quarrel was terrible . 
I say quarrel , but the term is inexact . 
It was the sudden discovery of the abyss that had been dug between us . 
Love was exhausted with the satisfaction of sensuality . 
We stood face to face in our true light , like two egoists trying to procure the greatest possible enjoyment , like two individuals trying to mutually exploit each other . 
So what I called our quarrel was our actual situation as it appeared after the satisfaction of sensual desire . 
I did not realize that this cold hostility was our normal state , and that this first quarrel would soon be drowned under a new flood of the intensest sensuality . 
I thought that we had disputed with each other , and had become reconciled , and that it would not happen again . 
But in this same honeymoon there came a period of satiety , in which we ceased to be necessary to each other , and a new quarrel broke out . 
It became evident that the first was not a matter of chance . 
'It was inevitable , I thought . 
This second quarrel stupefied me the more , because it was based on an extremely unjust cause . 
It was something like a question of money , and never had I haggled on that score it was even impossible that I should do so in relation to her . 
In short , something extraordinarily stupid and base , which was neither in my character nor in hers . 
I accused her of indelicacy . 
She made the same accusation against me , and the dispute broke out . 
In her words , in the expression of her face , of her eyes , I noticed again the hatred that had so astonished me before . 
With a brother , friends , my father , I had occasionally quarrelled , but never had there been between us this fierce spite . 
Our mutual hatred was again concealed beneath an access of sensual desire , and I again consoled myself with the reflection that these scenes were reparable faults . 
But when they were repeated a third and a fourth time , I understood that they were not simply faults , but a fatality that must happen again . 
That was what happened to me . 
Begun in the early days , it continued and increased with characteristics of fury that were ever more pronounced . 
Now I am astonished to think that I did not see my real situation . 
It was so easy to perceive it , in view of those quarrels , begun for reasons so trivial that afterwards one could not recall them . 
More extraordinary still was the absence of causes for reconciliation . 
Sometimes words , explanations , or even tears , but sometimes , I remember , after insulting words , there tacitly followed embraces and declarations . 
Abomination ! Why is it that I did not then perceive this baseness ? CHAPTER XIII . 
All of us , men and women , are brought up in these aberrations of feeling that we call love . 
I from childhood had prepared myself for this thing , and I loved , and I loved during all my youth , and I was joyous in loving . 
It had been put into my head that it was the noblest and highest occupation in the world . 
But when this expected feeling came at last , and I , a man , abandoned myself to it , the lie was pierced through and through . 
Theoretically a lofty love is conceivable practically it is an ignoble and degrading thing , which it is equally disgusting to talk about and to remember . 
It is not in vain that nature has made ceremonies , but people pretend that the ignoble and the shameful is beautiful and lofty . 
I will tell you brutally and briefly what were the first signs of my love . 
I abandoned myself to beastly excesses , not only not ashamed of them , but proud of them , giving no thought to the intellectual life of my wife . 
And not only did I not think of her intellectual life , I did not even consider her physical life . 
I was astonished at the origin of our hostility , and yet how clear it was ! This hostility is nothing but a protest of human nature against the beast that enslaves it . 
It could not be otherwise . 
This hatred was the hatred of accomplices in a crime . 
I am always giving you an account of the events that led to the murder of my wife . 
The imbeciles ! They think that I killed my wife on the th of October . 
It was long before that that I immolated her , just as they all kill now . 
Wein , Weiber und Gesang . 
That is what she is at Trouba , at Gratchevka , and in a court ball room . 
, then all assure us that they esteem woman . 
Some give up their seats to her , pick up her handkerchief others recognize in her a right to fill all offices , participate in government , etc . 
, but , in spite of all that , the essential point remains the same . 
She is , she remains , an object of sensual desire , and she knows it . 
It is slavery , for slavery is nothing else than the utilization of the labor of some for the enjoyment of others . 
That slavery may not exist people must refuse to enjoy the labor of others , and look upon it as a shameful act and as a sin . 
Actually , this is what happens . 
They abolish the external form , they suppress the formal sales of slaves , and then they imagine and assure others that slavery is abolished . 
They are unwilling to see that it still exists , since people , as before , like to profit by the labor of others , and think it good and just . 
This being given , there will always be found beings stronger or more cunning than others to profit thereby . 
The same thing happens in the emancipation of woman . 
At bottom feminine servitude consists entirely in her assimilation with a means of pleasure . 
She is always the humiliated and corrupt serf , and man remains always the debauched Master . 
The emancipation of woman is not to be effected in the public courts or in the chamber of deputies , but in the sleeping chamber . 
Prostitution is to be combated , not in the houses of ill fame , but in the family . 
They free woman in the public courts and in the chamber of deputies , but she remains an instrument . 
Teach her , as she is taught among us , to look upon herself as such , and she will always remain an inferior being . 
But why that ? I asked . 
Man does not wish to know the law of nature , children . 
But children are born and become an embarrassment . 
Then man devises means of avoiding this embarrassment . 
We have not yet reached the low level of Europe , nor Paris , nor the 'system of two children , nor Mahomet . 
We have discovered nothing , because we have given it no thought . 
We feel that there is something bad in the two first means but we wish to preserve the family , and our view of woman is still worse . 
With us woman must be at the same time mistress and nurse , and her strength is not sufficient . 
That is why we have hysteria , nervous attacks , and , among the peasants , witchcraft . 
Note that among the young girls of the peasantry this state of things does not exist , but only among the wives , and the wives who live with their husbands . 
The reason is clear , and this is the cause of the intellectual and moral decline of woman , and of her abasement . 
But if this is so , said I , it follows that one may love his wife only once every two years and as man . 
And as man has need of her , you are going to say . 
At least , so the priests of science assure us . 
I would force these priests to fulfil the function of these women , who , in their opinion , are necessary to man . 
I wonder what song they would sing then . 
Assure man that he needs brandy , tobacco , opium , and he will believe those poisons necessary . 
It follows that God did not know how to arrange matters properly , since , without asking the opinions of the priests , he has combined things as they are . 
Man needs , so they have decided , to satisfy his sensual desire , and here this function is disturbed by the birth and the nursing of children . 
What , then , is to be done ? Why , apply to the priests they will arrange everything , and they have really discovered a way . 
When , then , will these rascals with their lies be uncrowned ! It is high time . 
We have had enough of them . 
Only man does not know this , and is unwilling to know it . 
He cares only to have as much sensual enjoyment as possible . 
The king of nature , man ! In the name of his love he kills half the human race . 
Who is it that everywhere puts a check upon the progressive movement of humanity ? Woman . 
Why is it so ? For the reason that I have given , and for that reason only . 
Yes , much worse than the animal is man when he does not live as a man . 
But it is evident that the fault was not in her . 
She was like everybody else , like the majority . 
How many times we hear or read of reflections upon the abnormal condition of women , and upon what they ought to be . 
But these are only vain words . 
The education of women results from the real and not imaginary view which the world entertains of women's vocation . 
According to this view , the condition of women consists in procuring pleasure and it is to that end that her education is directed . 
From her infancy she is taught only those things that are calculated to increase her charm . 
Every young girl is accustomed to think only of that . 
As the serfs were brought up solely to please their masters , so woman is brought up to attract men . 
Every sort of feminine education has for its sole object the attraction of men . 
Some attract by music or curly hair , others by science or by civic virtue . 
, to seduce man in order to possess him . 
Imagine courses of instruction for women and feminine science without men , that is , learned women , and men not KNOWING them as learned . 
Oh , no ! No education , no instruction can change woman as long as her highest ideal shall be marriage and not virginity , freedom from sensuality . 
Until that time she will remain a serf . 
It is the opposite that would cause astonishment . 
Nine out of ten are tortured intolerably during the first period of maturity , and afterward provided they do not marry at the age of twenty . 
That is what we are unwilling to see , but those who have eyes see it all the same . 
that they are fit for nothing . 
They become animated only in the presence of men . 
Their whole life is spent in preparations for coquetry , or in coquetry itself . 
In the presence of men they become too animated they begin to live by sensual energy . 
But the moment the man goes away , the life stops . 
And that , not in the presence of a certain man , but in the presence of any man , provided he is not utterly hideous . 
You will say that this is an exception . 
No , it is a rule . 
Only in some it is made very evident , in other less so . 
But no one lives by her own life they are all dependent upon man . 
So it is in the life of young girls , and so it continues during marriage . 
In the life of young girls it is necessary in order to selection , and in marriage it is necessary in order to rule the husband . 
Here again the doctor interferes . 
With my wife , who desired to nurse her own children , and who did nurse six of them , it happened that the first child was sickly . 
Nevertheless , that is not the question but there was again awakened in my wife that coquetry which had been sleeping during the nursing period . 
Thanks to that , she reawakened in me the torments of jealousy which I had formerly known , though in a much slighter degree . 
Yes , jealousy , that is another of the secrets of marriage known to all and concealed by all . 
But by tacit consent it is determined to conceal them from all , and we conceal them . 
Knowing them , each one supposes in himself that it is an unfortunate peculiarity , and not a common destiny . 
So it was with me , and it had to be so . 
There cannot fail to be jealousy between husbands and wives who live immorally . 
, but even for the sake of conscience . 
, but of that unconscious jealousy which inevitably accompanies every immoral marriage , and which , having no cause , has no end . 
Frightful , that is the word . 
A young man speaks to my wife . 
He looks at her with a smile , and , as it seems to me , he surveys her body . 
I even see that she puts herself to trouble on his account . 
And in my soul there rises such a hatred for her that each of her words , each gesture , disgusts me . 
She notices it , she knows not what to do , and how assume an air of indifferent animation ? Ah ! I suffer ! That makes her gay , she is content . 
Then I get angry with myself . 
I go in again , inventing some pretext . 
Or sometimes I do not go in I remain near the door , and listen . 
He is what I was before my marriage . 
He even smiles when he looks at me , as much as to say 'What have you to do with this ? It is my turn now . 
Let me once become jealous of a being , and nevermore could I re establish with him simple human relations , and my eyes flashed when I looked at him . 
As for my wife , so many times had I enveloped her with this moral vitriol , with this jealous hatred , that she was degraded thereby . 
In the periods of this causeless hatred I gradually uncrowned her . 
I covered her with shame in my imagination . 
, I entered into the furrow dug formerly by my filthy suspicions , and I continually deepened it . 
She did the same thing . 
If I have reasons to be jealous , she who knew my past had a thousand times more . 
And she was more ill natured in her jealousy than I. And the sufferings that I felt from her jealousy were different , and likewise very painful . 
The situation may be described thus . 
We are living more or less tranquilly . 
I am even gay and contented . 
Suddenly we start a conversation on some most commonplace subject , and directly she finds herself disagreeing with me upon matters concerning which we have been generally in accord . 
And furthermore I see that , without any necessity therefor , she is becoming irritated . 
I think that she has a nervous attack , or else that the subject of conversation is really disagreeable to her . 
We talk of something else , and that begins again . 
Again she torments me , and becomes irritated . 
I am astonished and look for a reason . 
Why ? For what ? She keeps silence , answers me with monosyllables , evidently making allusions to something . 
I begin to divine , but I cannot say so . 
If I say so , I confirm her suspicions . 
I interrogate her , I question her . 
She does not answer , but she sees that I understand , and that confirms her suspicions . 
'What is the matter with you ? I ask . 
'Nothing , I am as well as usual , she answers . 
And at the same time , like a crazy woman , she gives utterance to the silliest remarks , to the most inexplicable explosions of spite . 
Sometimes I am patient , but at other times I break out with anger . 
I go to look for her . 
I am ashamed before people , before the children , but there is nothing to be done . 
She is in a condition where I feel that she is ready for anything . 
I run , and finally find her . 
Nights of torture follow , in which both of us , with exhausted nerves , appease each other , after the most cruel words and accusations . 
Yes , jealousy , causeless jealousy , is the condition of our debauched conjugal life . 
And throughout my marriage never did I cease to feel it and to suffer from it . 
There were two periods in which I suffered most intensely . 
The first time was after the birth of our first child , when the doctors had forbidden my wife to nurse it . 
I was particularly jealous , in the first place , because my wife felt that restlessness peculiar to animal matter when the regular course of life is interrupted without occasion . 
I see that you have no love for the doctors , said I , having noticed Posdnicheff's extraordinarily spiteful expression of face and tone of voice whenever he spoke of them . 
It is not a question of loving them or of not loving them . 
They have ruined my life , as they have ruined the lives of thousands of beings before me , and I cannot help connecting the consequence with the cause . 
I conceive that they desire , like the lawyers and the rest , to make money . 
, now mothers , under the pretext of a so called operation . 
No one has counted these murders , just as no one counted the murders of the Inquisition , because it was supposed that they were committed for the benefit of humanity . 
Innumerable are the crimes of the doctors ! But all these crimes are nothing compared with the materialistic demoralization which they introduce into the world through women . 
Everybody , according to their doctrine , should isolate himself , and never remove from his mouth a syringe filled with phenic acid . 
But I would pass over all these things . 
The supreme poison is the perversion of people , especially of women . 
One can no longer say now 'You live badly , live better . 
Your condition grows worse ? Again to the doctors , and more remedies ! An excellent business ! But to return to our subject . 
The children came rapidly , one after another , and there happened what happens in our society with children and doctors . 
Yes , children , maternal love , it is a painful thing . 
Women say it , they think it , and they feel it too . 
, but because the children may fall sick and die . 
They do not wish to give birth to them , and then not love them and when they love , they do not wish to feel fear for the child's health and life . 
That is why they do not wish to nurse them . 
'If I nurse it , they say , 'I shall become too fond of it . 
One would think that they preferred india rubber children , which could neither be sick nor die , and could always be repaired . 
And why ? Because , when a man does not live as a man , he is worse than a beast . 
A woman cannot look upon a child otherwise than as a pleasure . 
It is true that it is painful to give birth to it , but what little hands ! . 
But as for any idea as to the mysterious significance of the appearance of a new human being to replace us , there is scarcely a sign of it . 
Nothing of it appears in all that is said and done . 
No one has any faith now in a baptism of the child , and yet that was nothing but a reminder of the human significance of the newborn babe . 
But the animal has neither imagination , nor foresight , nor reason , nor a doctor . 
It is only a condition , and not that sorrow which becomes exaggerated to the point of despair , thanks to idleness and satiety . 
The cow has not that reasoning faculty which would enable it to ask the why . 
But then , how is it necessary to act , in your opinion , in order to treat children humanly ? I asked . 
How ? Why , love them humanly . 
Well , do not mothers love their children ? They do not love them humanly , or very seldom do , and that is why they do not love them even as dogs . 
Mark this , a hen , a goose , a wolf , will always remain to woman inaccessible ideals of animal love . 
Woman has the power to limit her physical love for her children , which an animal cannot do . 
, but she has other duties , human duties . 
She can restrain herself in the matter of animal love , and transfer her love to the soul of the child . 
That is what woman's role should be , and that is precisely what we do not see in our society . 
So it was with my wife . 
Whether there was one child or five , the feeling remained the same . 
In fact , it was a little better when there had been five . 
Life was always poisoned with fear for the children , not only from their real or imaginary diseases , but even by their simple presence . 
For my part , at least , throughout my conjugal life , all my interests and all my happiness depended upon the health of my children , their condition , their studies . 
Children , it is needless to say , are a serious consideration but all ought to live , and in our days parents can no longer live . 
Regular life does not exist for them . 
The whole life of the family hangs by a hair . 
The essential thing is the doctor , the enema , the temperature . 
Regular , steady family life does not exist . 
It is a perpetual peril . 
Scarcely do we believe ourselves out of it when a new danger comes more attempts to save . 
Always the situation of sailors on a foundering vessel . 
Sometimes it seemed to me that this was done on purpose , that my wife feigned anxiety in order to conquer me , since that solved the question so simply for her benefit . 
A torture to both of us , but to her the children were also a means of forgetting herself , like an intoxication . 
I often noticed , when she was very sad , that she was relieved , when a child fell sick , at being able to take refuge in this intoxication . 
It was involuntary intoxication , because as yet there was nothing else . 
On every side we heard that Mrs. So and so had lost children , that Dr . 
And the doctors , with a serious air , confirmed this , sustaining my wife in her opinions . 
She was not prone to fear , but the doctor dropped some word , like corruption of the blood , scarlatina , or else heaven help us diphtheria , and off she went . 
It was impossible for it to be otherwise . 
If the women of to day had something like this faith , they could endure more peacefully the sickness of their children . 
But of all that there does not remain even a trace . 
And yet it is necessary to believe in something consequently they stupidly believe in medicine , and not even in medicine , but in the doctor . 
One believes in X , another in Z , and , like all believers , they do not see the idiocy of their beliefs . 
They believe quia absurdum , because , in reality , if they did not believe in a stupid way , they would see the vanity of all that these brigands prescribe for them . 
, and yet every man in the city is a centre through which pass innumerable diameters , carrying threads of all sorts of contagions . 
There is no obstacle the baker , the tailor , the coachman , the laundresses . 
And I would undertake , for every man who moves on account of contagion , to find in his new dwelling place another contagion similar , if not the same . 
But that is not all . 
Every one knows rich people who , after a case of diphtheria , destroy everything in their residences , and then fall sick in houses newly built and furnished . 
Every one knows , likewise , numbers of men who come in contact with sick people and do not get infected . 
Our anxieties are due to the people who circulate tall stories . 
One woman says that she has an excellent doctor . 
'Pardon me , answers the other , 'he killed such a one , or such a one . 
It all lies in the fact that our women are savages . 
They have no belief in God , but some of them believe in the evil eye , and the others in doctors who charge high fees . 
If they had faith they would know that scarlatina , diphtheria , etc . 
, are not so terrible , since they cannot disturb that which man can and should love , the soul . 
There can result from them only that which none of us can avoid , disease and death . 
And from that time there is nothing to be done the doctors must be summoned . 
Thus the presence of the children not only did not improve our relations as husband and wife , but , on the contrary , disunited us . 
The children became an additional cause of dispute , and the larger they grew , the more they became an instrument of struggle . 
One would have said that we used them as weapons with which to combat each other . 
Each of us had his favorite . 
I made use of little Basile , she of Lise . 
Further , when the children reached an age where their characters began to be defined , they became allies , which we drew each in his or her own direction . 
They suffered horribly from this , the poor things , but we , in our perpetual hubbub , were not clear headed enough to think of them . 
The little girl was devoted to me , but the eldest boy , who resembled my wife , his favorite , often inspired me with dislike . 
I should not have understood the abyss of misfortune and ignoble falsehood in which I floundered about , feeling that something was not right . 
The principal cause of my subjection was the children . 
I should have liked to free myself , but I could not . 
Bringing up the children , and resting upon them , my wife ruled . 
Why is this so ? Evidently because husbands pervert them , and lower them to their own level . 
In truth , if boys and girls are born equal , the little girls find themselves in a better situation . 
In the first place , the young girl is not subjected to the perverting conditions to which we are subjected . 
She has neither cigarettes , nor wine , nor cards , nor comrades , nor public houses , nor public functions . 
And then the chief thing is that she is physically pure , and that is why , in marrying , she is superior to her husband . 
Consequently woman is necessarily superior to man , and must rule . 
Thus my wife despised me for my work at the Zemstvo , because she gave birth to children and nursed them . 
I , in turn , thought that woman's labor was most contemptible , which one might and should laugh at . 
Apart from the other motives , we were also separated by a mutual contempt . 
Our relations grew ever more hostile , and we arrived at that period when , not only did dissent provoke hostility , but hostility provoked dissent . 
Whatever she might say , I was sure in advance to hold a contrary opinion and she the same . 
Toward the fourth year of our marriage it was tacitly decided between us that no intellectual community was possible , and we made no further attempts at it . 
As to the simplest objects , we each held obstinately to our own opinions . 
With strangers we talked upon the most varied and most intimate matters , but not with each other . 
When we were together we were condemned to silence , or to conversations which , I am sure , might have been carried on by animals . 
'What time is it ? It is bed time . 
What is there for dinner to day ? Where shall we go ? What is there in the newspaper ? The doctor must be sent for , Lise has a sore throat . 
Unless we kept within the extremely narrow limits of such conversation , irritation was sure to ensue . 
The presence of a third person relieved us , for through an intermediary we could still communicate . 
She probably believed that she was always right . 
As for me , in my own eyes , I was a saint beside her . 
The periods of what we call love arrived as often as formerly . 
They were more brutal , without refinement , without ornament but they were short , and generally followed by periods of irritation without cause , irritation fed by the most trivial pretexts . 
As for me , a terrible execration was continually boiling up within me . 
I did not notice that these periods of irritation depended very regularly upon the periods of love . 
Each of the latter was followed by one of the former . 
A period of intense love was followed by a long period of anger a period of mild love induced a mild irritation . 
We did not understand that this love and this hatred were two opposite faces of the same animal feeling . 
To live thus would be terrible , if one understood the philosophy of it . 
But we did not perceive this , we did not analyze it . 
It is at once the torture and the relief of man that , when he lives irregularly , he can cherish illusions as to the miseries of his situation . 
Vodka before meals , and during meals two glasses of wine , so that a perpetual mist concealed the turmoil of existence . 
These new theories of hypnotism , of mental maladies , of hysteria are not simple stupidities , but dangerous or evil stupidities . 
But in us there was nothing requiring treatment . 
All this mental malady was the simple result of the fact that we were living immorally . 
Thanks to this immoral life , we suffered , and , to stifle our sufferings , we tried abnormal means , which the doctors call the 'symptoms' of a mental malady , hysteria . 
There was no occasion in all this to apply for treatment to Charcot or to anybody else . 
Neither suggestion nor bromide would have been effective in working our cure . 
The needful thing was an examination of the origin of the evil . 
It is as when one is sitting on a nail if you see the nail , you see that which is irregular in your life , and you avoid it . 
Then the pain stops , without any necessity of stifling it . 
It was because of this irregularity that my wife so passionately pursued her occupations . 
Thus we lived in a perpetual fog , in which we did not distinguish our condition . 
We were like two galley slaves fastened to the same ball , cursing each other , poisoning each other's existence , and trying to shake each other off . 
I was still unaware that ninety nine families out of every hundred live in the same hell , and that it cannot be otherwise . 
I had not learned this fact from others or from myself . 
The coincidences that are met in regular , and even in irregular life , are surprising . 
At the very period when the life of parents becomes impossible , it becomes indispensable that they go to the city to live , in order to educate their children . 
That is what we did . 
Posdnicheff became silent , and twice there escaped him , in the half darkness , sighs , which at that moment seemed to me like suppressed sobs . 
So we lived in the city . 
In the city the wretched feel less sad . 
One can live there a hundred years without being noticed , and be dead a long time before anybody will notice it . 
People have no time to inquire into your life . 
Business , social relations , art , the health of children , their education . 
And there are visits that must be received and made it is necessary to see this one , it is necessary to hear that one or the other one . 
In the city there are always one , two , or three celebrities that it is indispensable that one should visit . 
Now one must care for himself , or care for such or such a little one , now it is the professor , the private tutor , the governesses , . 
and life is absolutely empty . 
In this activity we were less conscious of the sufferings of our cohabitation . 
Thus we spent a winter . 
The following winter an incident happened to us which passed unnoticed , but which was the fundamental cause of all that happened later . 
would not permit her to conceive a child , and taught her how to avoid it . 
I struggled vainly against it , but she insisted frivolously and obstinately , and I surrendered . 
The last justification of our life as wretches was thereby suppressed , and life became baser than ever . 
The peasant and the workingman need children , and hence their conjugal relations have a justification . 
But we , when we have a few children , have no need of any more . 
They make a superfluous confusion of expenses and joint heirs , and are an embarrassment . 
Consequently we have no excuses for our existence as wretches , but we are so deeply degraded that we do not see the necessity of a justification . 
The majority of people in contemporary society give themselves up to this debauchery without the slightest remorse . 
We have no conscience left , except , so to speak , the conscience of public opinion and of the criminal code . 
But in this matter neither of these consciences is struck . 
There is not a being in society who blushes at it . 
Each one practices it , X , Y , Z , etc . 
But with us the suppression is effected opportunely and properly . 
Thus we passed two years more . 
The method prescribed by the rascals had evidently succeeded . 
My wife had grown stouter and handsomer . 
It was the beauty of the end of summer . 
She felt it , and paid much attention to her person . 
She had acquired that provoking beauty that stirs men . 
She was in all the brilliancy of the wife of thirty years , who conceives no children , eats heartily , and is excited . 
The very sight of her was enough to frighten one . 
She was like a spirited carriage horse that has long been idle , and suddenly finds itself without a bridle . 
As for my wife , she had no bridle , as for that matter , ninety nine hundredths of our women have none . 
Yes , he resumed she had grown stouter since ceasing to conceive , and her anxieties about her children began to disappear . 
'If only this world shall not vanish ! When time is past , when old age comes , one cannot recover it . 
Thus , I believe , she thought , or rather felt . 
Moreover , she could neither think nor feel otherwise . 
She had been brought up in this idea that there is in the world but one thing worthy of attention , love . 
In marrying , she had known something of this love , but very far from everything that she had understood as promised her , everything that she expected . 
That had made her glad . 
She had tried , and she was now revived for the only thing that she knew , for love . 
But love with a husband polluted by jealousy and ill nature was no longer her ideal . 
She began to think of some other tenderness at least , that is what I thought . 
She looked about her as if expecting some event or some being . 
I noticed it , and I could not help being anxious . 
When one is young , it is necessary to enjoy life . 
She began to devote herself passionately to the piano , which had formerly stood forgotten in the corner . 
There , at the piano , began the adventure . 
Posdnicheff seemed embarrassed , and twice again there escaped him that nasal sound of which I spoke above . 
I thought that it gave him pain to refer to the MAN , and to remember him . 
He made an effort , as if to break down the obstacle that embarrassed him , and continued with determination . 
He was a bad man in my eyes , and not because he has played such an important role in my life , but because he was really such . 
For the rest , from the fact that he was bad , we must conclude that he was irresponsible . 
He was a musician , a violinist . 
Not a professional musician , but half man of the world , half artist . 
His father , a country proprietor , was a neighbor of my father's . 
The father had become ruined , and the children , three boys , were all sent away . 
Our man , the youngest , was sent to his godmother at Paris . 
There they placed him in the Conservatory , for he showed a taste for music . 
He came out a violinist , and played in concerts . 
On the point of speaking evil of the other , Posdnicheff checked himself , stopped , and said suddenly In truth , I know not how he lived . 
I only know that that year he came to Russia , and came to see me . 
Well , he , with his music , was the cause of all . 
At the trial the affair was so represented that everything seemed attributable to jealousy . 
It is false , that is , not quite false , but there was something else . 
, and thus I was acquitted . 
I tried to explain the affair from my own point of view , but they concluded that I simply wanted to rehabilitate the memory of my wife . 
Her relations with the musician , whatever they may have been , are now of no importance to me or to her . 
The important part is what I have told you . 
Our quarrels in the last days were something terrible , and the more astonishing because they were followed by a brutal passion extremely strained . 
If it had not been he , some other would have come . 
If the pretext had not been jealousy , I should have discovered another . 
In order that you may understand me , I must tell you how this happened . 
We were living along , and all seemed well . 
Suddenly we began to talk of the children's education . 
I do not remember what words either of us uttered , but a discussion began , reproaches , leaps from one subject to another . 
'Yes , I know it . 
It has been so for a long time . 
'No , I did not say that . 
'Then I lie ? etc . 
And I felt that the frightful crisis was approaching when I should desire to kill her or else myself . 
I knew that it was approaching I was afraid of it as of fire I wanted to restrain myself . 
But rage took possession of my whole being . 
My wife found herself in the same condition , perhaps worse . 
She knew that she intentionally distorted each of my words , and each of her words was saturated with venom . 
All that was dear to me she disparaged and profaned . 
The farther the quarrel went , the more furious it became . 
I cried , 'Be silent , or something like that . 
She bounded out of the room and ran toward the children . 
I tried to hold her back to finish my insults . 
I grasped her by the arm , and hurt her . 
She cried 'Children , your father is beating me . 
She continued to utter falsehoods for the simple purpose of irritating me further . 
'Ah , it is not the first time , or something of that sort . 
The children rushed toward her and tried to quiet her . 
She said 'You look upon everything as a sham . 
You would kill a person and say he was shamming . 
That is what you want to do . 
'Oh , if you were only dead ! I cried . 
I remember how that terrible phrase frightened me . 
Never had I thought that I could utter words so brutal , so frightful , and I was stupefied at what had just escaped my lips . 
I fled into my private apartment . 
I sat down and began to smoke . 
I heard her go into the hall and prepare to go out . 
I asked her 'Where are you going ? She did not answer . 
'Well , may the devil take you ! said I to myself , going back into my private room , where I lay down again and began smoking afresh . 
I thought of these things , and I smoked , and smoked , and smoked . 
I thought of running away , of making my escape , of going to America . 
I went so far as to dream how beautiful it would be , after getting rid of her , to love another woman , entirely different from her . 
I should be rid of her if she should die or if I should get a divorce , and I tried to think how that could be managed . 
I saw that I was getting confused , but , in order not to see that I was not thinking rightly , I kept on smoking . 
And the life of the house went on as usual . 
The children's teacher came and asked 'Where is Madame ? When will she return ? The servants asked if they should serve the tea . 
I entered the dining room . 
The children , Lise , the eldest girl , looked at me with fright , as if to question me , and she did not come . 
The whole evening passed , and still she did not come . 
But where should I look for her ? At her sister's ? It seemed so stupid to go to ask where one's wife is . 
Moreover , may God forbid , I hoped , that she should be at her sister's ! If she wishes to torment any one , let her torment herself first . 
And suppose she were not at her sister's . 
Suppose she were to do , or had already done , something . 
Eleven o'clock , midnight , one o'clock . 
I did not go to my chamber . 
It is stupid to lie stretched out all alone , and to wait . 
But in my study I did not rest . 
I tried to busy myself , to write letters , to read . 
Impossible ! I was alone , tortured , wicked , and I listened . 
Toward daylight I went to sleep . 
Everything in the house went on as usual , and all looked at me in astonishment , questioningly . 
The children's eyes were full of reproach for me . 
And always the same feeling of anxiety about her , and of hatred because of this anxiety . 
Toward eleven o'clock in the morning came her sister , her ambassadress . 
Then began the usual phrases 'She is in a terrible state . 
What is the matter ? 'Why , nothing has happened . 
I spoke of her asperity of character , and I added that I had done nothing , and that I would not take the first step . 
If she wants a divorce , so much the better ! My sister in law would not listen to this idea , and went away without having gained anything . 
I was obstinate , and I said boldly and determinedly , in talking to her , that I would not take the first step . 
But I was bound by my word . 
Again I walked up and down , always smoking . 
At breakfast I drank brandy and wine , and I reached the point which I unconsciously desired , the point where I no longer saw the stupidity and baseness of my situation . 
Toward three o'clock she came . 
I thought that she was appeased , or admitted her defeat . 
I began to tell her that I was provoked by her reproaches . 
She answered me , with the same severe and terribly downcast face , that she had not come for explanations , but to take the children , that we could not live together . 
I answered that it was not my fault , that she had put me beside myself . 
She looked at me with a severe and solemn air , and said 'Say no more . 
I said that I could not tolerate comedies . 
Then she cried out something that I did not understand , and rushed toward her room . 
The key turned in the lock , and she shut herself up . 
I pushed at the door . 
Furious , I went away . 
A half hour later Lise came running all in tears . 
'What ! Has anything happened ? We cannot hear Mamma ! We went toward my wife's room . 
I pushed the door with all my might . 
The bolt was scarcely drawn , and the door opened . 
In a skirt , with high boots , my wife lay awkwardly on the bed . 
On the table an empty opium phial . 
We restored her to life . 
These scenes , and even worse , came now once a week , now every month , now every day . 
And invariably the same incidents . 
Once I was absolutely resolved to fly , but through some inconceivable weakness I remained . 
Such were the circumstances in which we were living when the MAN came . 
The man was bad , it is true . 
But what ! No worse than we were . 
When we moved to Moscow , this gentleman his name was Troukhatchevsky came to my house . 
It was in the morning . 
In former times we had been very familiar . 
He tried , by various advances , to re establish the familiarity , but I was determined to keep him at a distance , and soon he gave it up . 
At the first glance I saw that he was a filthy debauche . 
I was jealous of him , even before he had seen my wife . 
But , strange thing ! some occult fatal power kept me from repulsing him and sending him away , and , on the contrary , induced me to suffer this approach . 
He remembered that I used to play . 
I answered that I had abandoned music , but that my wife played very well . 
I was conscious that some frightful misfortune must result from the presence of this man , and , in spite of that , I could not help being amiable to him . 
I introduced him to my wife . 
She was pleased with him . 
In the beginning , I suppose , because of the pleasure of the violin playing , which she adored . 
She had even hired for that purpose a violinist from the theatre . 
But when she cast a glance at me , she understood my feelings , and concealed her impression . 
Then began the mutual trickery and deceit . 
I smiled agreeably , pretending that all this pleased me extremely . 
She tried to seem indifferent . 
But my expression , my jealous or false smile , which she knew so well , and the voluptuous glances of the musician , evidently excited her . 
We talked , at the first interview , of music , of Paris , and of all sorts of trivialities . 
Pressing his hat against his swaying hip , he stood erect , looking now at her and now at me , as if waiting to see what she would do . 
I remember that minute , precisely because it was in my power not to invite him . 
I need not have invited him , and then nothing would have happened . 
But I cast a glance first at him , then at her . 
She raised her eyes toward me with astonishment , and her face turned purple , as if she were seized with a sudden fear . 
She began to excuse herself , saying that she did not play well enough . 
This refusal only excited me the more . 
I could not help confessing to myself that this man's presence caused me suffering . 
'It is in my power , thought I , 'to so arrange things that I shall never see him again . 
But can it be that I , I , fear him ? No , I do not fear him . 
It would be too humiliating ! And there in the hall , knowing that my wife heard me , I insisted that he should come that very evening with his violin . 
He promised me , and went away . 
In the evening he arrived with his violin , and they played together . 
But for a long time things did not go well we had not the necessary music , and that which we had my wife could not play at sight . 
I amused myself with their difficulties . 
I aided them , I made proposals , and they finally executed a few pieces , songs without words , and a little sonata by Mozart . 
He played in a marvellous manner . 
He had what is called the energetic and tender tone . 
As for difficulties , there were none for him . 
Scarcely had he begun to play , when his face changed . 
He became serious , and much more sympathetic . 
He was , it is needless to say , much stronger than my wife . 
He helped her , he advised her simply and naturally , and at the same time played his game with courtesy . 
My wife seemed interested only in the music . 
She was very simple and agreeable . 
Throughout the evening I feigned , not only for the others , but for myself , an interest solely in the music . 
Really , I was continually tortured by jealousy . 
If I had been pure , I should not have dreamed of what he might think of her . 
But I looked at women , and that is why I understood him and was in torture . 
I could not help seeing this . 
I could not help suffering , or keep from being jealous . 
I was obliged , that I might not give way to a desire to kill him immediately , to 'caress' him . 
I told him that I would invite some of my acquaintances , lovers of his art , to hear him . 
And it was this , it was this in passing through the hall , I had noticed something which reminded me of HIM . 
Not until I reached my study did I realize what it was , and I returned to the hall to verify my conjecture . 
Yes , I was not mistaken . 
I passed near the parlor , through my children's study room . 
Lise , my daughter , was sitting before a book , and the old nurse , with my youngest child , was beside the table , turning the cover of something or other . 
In the parlor I heard a slow arpeggio , and his voice , deadened , and a denial from her . 
She said 'No , no ! There is something else ! And it seemed to me that some one was purposely deadening the words by the aid of the piano . 
My God ! How my heart leaped ! What were my imaginations ! When I remember the beast that lived in me at that moment , I am seized with fright . 
My heart was first compressed , then stopped , and then began to beat like a hammer . 
The principal feeling , as in every bad feeling , was pity for myself . 
'Before the children , before the old nurse , thought I , 'she dishonors me . 
I can endure it no longer . 
God knows what I should do if . 
But I must go in . 
The old nurse raised her eyes to mine , as if she understood , and advised me to keep a sharp watch . 
'I must go in , I said to myself , and , without knowing what I did , I opened the door . 
He was sitting at the piano and making arpeggios with his long , white , curved fingers . 
She was standing in the angle of the grand piano , before the open score . 
She saw or heard me first , and raised her eyes to mine . 
She blushed , but only a little later . 
This tone , and the way in which she said 'we' in speaking of herself and of him , revolted me . 
He shook hands with me directly , with a smile that seemed to me full of mockery . 
And as he spoke , he looked at me . 
It was all so natural , so simple , that there was absolutely nothing to be said against it . 
And at the same time I saw , I was sure , that it was false , that they were in a conspiracy to deceive me . 
are those social conditions which allow a very great and dangerous intimacy between a man and a woman under certain pretexts . 
In order that people may occupy themselves together with the noblest art , music , a certain intimacy is necessary , in which there is nothing blameworthy . 
Only a jealous fool of a husband can have anything to say against it . 
A husband should not have such thoughts , and especially should not thrust his nose into these affairs , or prevent them . 
And yet , everybody knows that precisely in these occupations , especially in music , many adulteries originate in our society . 
I had evidently embarrassed them , because for some time I was unable to say anything . 
I was like a bottle suddenly turned upside down , from which the water does not run because it is too full . 
I wanted to insult the man , and to drive him away , but I could do nothing of the kind . 
On the contrary , I felt that I was disturbing them , and that it was my fault . 
I said that I trusted to his taste , and I advised my wife to do the same . 
He remained just as long as it was necessary in order to efface the unpleasant impression of my abrupt entrance with a frightened face . 
He went away with an air of satisfaction at the conclusions arrived at . 
As for me , I was perfectly sure that , in comparison with that which preoccupied them , the question of music was indifferent to them . 
, and I shook his white , soft hand with fervent amiability . 
All that day I did not speak to my wife . 
Her proximity excited such hatred that I feared myself . 
At the table she asked me , in presence of the children , when I was to start upon a journey . 
I was to go the following week to an assembly of the Zemstvo , in a neighboring locality . 
She asked me if I would need anything for the journey . 
I sat silent at the table , and silently I retired to my study . 
In those last days she never entered my study , especially at that hour . 
An inexpressible hatred invaded my soul . 
The steps drew nearer , and nearer , and nearer yet . 
Would she pass by and go on to the other room ? No , the hinges creaked , and at the door her tall , graceful , languid figure appeared . 
In her face , in her eyes , a timidity , an insinuating expression , which she tried to hide , but which I saw , and of which I understood the meaning . 
I came near suffocating , such were my efforts to hold my breath , and , continuing to look at her , I took my cigarette , and lighted it . 
'What does this mean ? One comes to talk with you , and you go to smoking . 
And she sat down beside me on the sofa , resting against my shoulder . 
I recoiled , that I might not touch her . 
'I see that you are displeased with what I wish to play on Sunday , said she . 
'I am not at all displeased , said I. 'Can I not see ? 'Well , I congratulate you on your clairvoyance . 
Only to you every baseness is agreeable , and I abhor it . 
'If you are going to swear like a trooper , I am going away . 
Only know that , if the honor of the family is nothing to you , to me it is dear . 
As for you , the devil take you ! 'What ! What is the matter ? 'Go away , in the name of God . 
But she did not go away . 
Was she pretending not to understand , or did she really not understand what I meant ? But she was offended and became angry . 
'You have become absolutely impossible , she began , or some such phrase as that regarding my character , trying , as usual , to give me as much pain as possible . 
For the first time I desired to express this hatred physically . 
I leaped upon her , but at the same moment I understood my condition , and I asked myself whether it would be well for me to abandon myself to my fury . 
'Go away , or I will kill you ! I cried , purposely , with a frightful voice , and I grasped her by the arm . 
She did not go away . 
Then I twisted her arm , and pushed her away violently . 
'What is the matter with you ? Come to your senses ! she shrieked . 
'Go away , roared I , louder than ever , rolling my eyes wildly . 
'It takes you to put me in such a fury . 
I felt a terrible desire to beat her , to kill her , but I realized that that could not be , and I restrained myself . 
I drew back from her , rushed to the table , grasped the paper weight , and threw it on the floor by her side . 
An hour later the old servant came to me and said that my wife was in a fit of hysterics . 
I went to see her . 
She sobbed and laughed , incapable of expressing anything , her whole body in a tremble . 
She was not shamming , she was really sick . 
We sent for the doctor , and all night long I cared for her . 
Toward daylight she grew calmer , and we became reconciled under the influence of that feeling which we called 'love . 
Write him that I am indisposed , and that will end the matter . 
Only one thing annoys me , that any one could have thought him dangerous . 
I am too proud not to detest such thoughts . 
And she did not lie . 
She believed what she said . 
She hoped by her words to provoke in herself a contempt for him , and thereby to defend herself . 
But she did not succeed . 
Everything was directed against her , especially that abominable music . 
So ended the quarrel , and on Sunday our guests came , and Troukhatchevsky and my wife again played together . 
I think that it is superfluous to say that I was very vain . 
If one has no vanity in this life of ours , there is no sufficient reason for living . 
So for that Sunday I had busied myself in tastefully arranging things for the dinner and the musical soiree . 
I had purchased myself numerous things for the dinner , and had chosen the guests . 
Toward six o'clock they arrived , and after them Troukhatchevsky , in his dress coat , with diamond shirt studs , in bad taste . 
He bore himself with ease . 
Less because of my wife's assurances than because of the atrocious sufferings which I felt in jealousy , I no longer allowed myself to be jealous . 
In spite of that , I was not at ease with the musician or with her during dinner time and the time that elapsed before the beginning of the music . 
Involuntarily I followed each of their gestures and looks . 
The dinner , like all dinners , was tiresome and conventional . 
Not long afterward the music began . 
He went to get his violin my wife advanced to the piano , and rummaged among the scores . 
She sat down with that false air in front of the piano , and then began the usual preliminaries , the pizzicati of the violin and the arrangement of the scores . 
I remember then how they looked at each other , and cast a glance at their auditors who were taking their seats . 
They said a few words to each other , and the music began . 
They played Beethoven's 'Kreutzer Sonata . 
Do you know the first presto ? Do you know it ? Ah ! . 
Posdnicheff heaved a sigh , and was silent for a long time . 
A terrible thing is that sonata , especially the presto ! And a terrible thing is music in general . 
What is it ? Why does it do what it does ? They say that music stirs the soul . 
, but not in an ennobling way . 
It acts neither in an ennobling nor a debasing way , but in an irritating way . 
How shall I say it ? Music makes me forget my real situation . 
It transports me into a state which is not my own . 
Under the influence of music I really seem to feel what I do not feel , to understand what I do not understand , to have powers which I cannot have . 
And music transports me immediately into the condition of soul in which he who wrote the music found himself at that time . 
I become confounded with his soul , and with him I pass from one condition to another . 
But why that ? I know nothing about it ? But he who wrote Beethoven's 'Kreutzer Sonata' knew well why he found himself in a certain condition . 
That condition led him to certain actions , and for that reason to him had a meaning , but to me none , none whatever . 
And that is why music provokes an excitement which it does not bring to a conclusion . 
For instance , a military march is played the soldier passes to the sound of this march , and the music is finished . 
A dance is played I have finished dancing , and the music is finished . 
A mass is sung I receive the sacrament , and again the music is finished . 
In China music is under the control of the State , and that is the way it ought to be . 
But to incite an energy of feeling which corresponds to neither the time nor the place , and is expended in nothing , cannot fail to act dangerously . 
On me in particular this piece acted in a frightful manner . 
One would have said that new sentiments , new virtualities , of which I was formerly ignorant , had developed in me . 
What was this new thing that I thus learned ? That I did not realize , but the consciousness of this indefinite state filled me with joy . 
In that state there was no room for jealousy . 
The same faces , and among them HE and my wife , I saw in a different light . 
This music transported me into an unknown world , where there was no room for jealousy . 
Jealousy and the feelings that provoke it seemed to me trivialities , nor worth thinking of . 
After the presto followed the andante , not very new , with commonplace variations , and the feeble finale . 
Then they played more , at the request of the guests , first an elegy by Ernst , and then various other pieces . 
They were all very well , but did not produce upon me a tenth part of the impression that the opening piece did . 
I felt light and gay throughout the evening . 
As for my wife , never had I seen her as she was that night . 
During almost the whole evening I was not jealous . 
I inferred from that that he believed it impossible to come to my house during my absence , and that was agreeable to me . 
Now I was not to return before his departure from the city . 
So we bade each other a definite farewell . 
For the first time I shook his hand with pleasure , and thanked him for the satisfaction that he had given me . 
He likewise took leave of my wife , and their parting seemed to me very natural and proper . 
My wife and I retired , well satisfied with the evening . 
We talked of our impressions in a general way , and we were nearer together and more friendly than we had been for a long time . 
Two days later I started for the assembly , having bid farewell to my wife in an excellent and tranquil state of mind . 
In the district there was always much to be done . 
It was a world and a life apart . 
During two days I spent ten hours at the sessions . 
He had also proposed that they play again , but she had refused . 
For my part , I did not remember at all that he had promised any score . 
It had seemed to me on Sunday evening that he took a definite leave , and for this reason the news gave me a disagreeable surprise . 
I read the letter again . 
There was something tender and timid about it . 
It produced an extremely painful impression upon me . 
My heart swelled , and the mad beast of jealousy began to roar in his lair , and seemed to want to leap upon his prey . 
But I was afraid of this beast , and I imposed silence upon it . 
What an abominable sentiment is jealousy ! 'What could be more natural than what she has written ? said I to myself . 
I went to bed , thinking myself tranquil again . 
I thought of the business that remained to be done , and I went to sleep without thinking of her . 
During these assemblies of the Zemstvo I always slept badly in my strange quarters . 
That night I went to sleep directly , but , as sometimes happens , a sort of sudden shock awoke me . 
I thought immediately of her , of my physical love for her , of Troukhatchevsky , and that between them everything had happened . 
And a feeling of rage compressed my heart , and I tried to quiet myself . 
'How stupid ! said I to myself 'there is no reason , none at all . 
, was careful of his person , well fed , and not only without principles , but evidently with the principle that one should take advantage of the pleasure that offers itself . 
There was a bond between them , music , the most refined form of sensual voluptuousness . 
What was there to restrain them ? Nothing . 
Everything , on the contrary , attracted them . 
And she , she had been and had remained a mystery . 
I did not know her . 
I knew her only as an animal , and an animal nothing can or should restrain . 
'How could I have gone away ? said I to myself , as I recalled their faces . 
Now I remember with fright that look and that scarcely perceptible smile . 
'Yes , everything has happened , a voice said to me , and directly another said the opposite . 
'Are you mad ? It is impossible ! said the second voice . 
It was too painful to me to remain thus stretched in the darkness . 
I struck a match , and the little yellow papered room frightened me . 
I lighted a cigarette , and , as always happens , when one turns in a circle of inextricable contradiction , I began to smoke . 
I smoked cigarette after cigarette to dull my senses , that I might not see my contradictions . 
There was a train at eight o'clock . 
I awakened the keeper who was acting as my servant , and sent him to look for horses . 
At eight o'clock I got into a tarantass and started off . 
I had to go twenty five versts by carriage and eight hours by train . 
By carriage it was a very pleasant journey . 
The coolness of autumn was accompanied by a brilliant sun . 
You know the weather when the wheels imprint themselves upon the dirty road . 
The road was level , and the light strong , and the air strengthening . 
As I looked at the horses , the fields , and the people whom we passed , I forgot where I was going . 
Sometimes it seemed to me that I was travelling without an object , simply promenading , and that I should go on thus to the end of the world . 
And I was happy when I so forgot myself . 
But when I remembered where I was going , I said to myself 'I shall see later . 
When half way , an incident happened to distract me still further . 
The tarantass , though new , broke down , and had to be repaired . 
The delays in looking for a telegue , the repairs , the payment , the tea in the inn , the conversation with the dvornik , all served to amuse me . 
Toward nightfall all was ready , and I started off again . 
By night the journey was still pleasanter than by day . 
The moon in its first quarter , a slight frost , the road still in good condition , the horses , the sprightly coachman , all served to put me in good spirits . 
But this tranquil state , the power of conquering my preoccupation , all ended with the carriage drive . 
Scarcely had I entered the cars , when the other thing began . 
Those eight hours on the rail were so terrible to me that I shall never forget them in my life . 
And always the same things about what was happening at home during my absence . 
I burned with indignation , with rage , and with a peculiar feeling which steeped me in humiliation , as I contemplated these pictures . 
And I could not tear myself out of this condition . 
I could not help looking at them , I could not efface them , I could not keep from evoking them . 
The more I looked at these imaginary pictures , the more I believed in their reality , forgetting that they had no serious foundation . 
The vivacity of these images seemed to prove to me that my imaginations were a reality . 
One would have said that a demon , against my will , was inventing and breathing into me the most terrible fictions . 
Yes , it was very long ago . 
And here he , his brother , the musician , had found the honest woman . 
'It is true that she is no longer in her early youth . 
She has lost a tooth on one side , and her face is slightly bloated , thought I for Troukhatchevsky . 
'But what is to be done ? One must profit by what one has . 
'Yes , he is bound to take her for his mistress , said I to myself again 'and besides , she is not dangerous . 
'No , it is not possible' I rejoined in fright . 
'Nothing , nothing of the kind has happened , and there is no reason to suppose there has . 
I was like a beast in a cage . 
And Posdnicheff rose abruptly , took a few steps , and sat down again . 
Oh , I am afraid , I am afraid of railway carriages . 
I sat down again , and I said to myself 'I must think of something else . 
For instance , of the inn keeper at whose house I took tea . 
And then , in my imagination arose the dvornik , with his long beard , and his grandson , a little fellow of the same age as my little Basile . 
And again it all began , the circle of the same thoughts . 
One thing prevented me from doing so . 
It was pity ! It was pity for myself , evoking at the same time a hatred for her , for him , but not so much for him . 
Toward him I felt a strange sentiment of my humiliation and his victory , but toward her a terrible hatred . 
'But I cannot kill myself and leave her free . 
She must suffer , she must understand at least that I have suffered , said I to myself . 
At a station I saw people drinking at the lunch counter , and directly I went to swallow a glass of vodki . 
Beside me stood a Jew , drinking also . 
There I sat down beside the Jew , and , as it seemed , he told many anecdotes . 
First I listened to him , but I did not understand what he said . 
He noticed it , and exacted my attention to his person . 
Then I rose and entered my own compartment . 
'I must consider , said I to myself , 'whether what I think is true , whether there is any reason to torment myself . 
I sat down , wishing to reflect quietly but directly , instead of the peaceful reflections , the same thing began again . 
Instead of the reasoning , the pictures . 
, 'and then seen it end in nothing at all ? It is the same now . 
Perhaps , yes , surely , I shall find her quietly sleeping . 
She will awaken , she will be glad , and in her words and looks I shall see that nothing has happened , that all this is vain . 
Ah , if it would only so turn out ! 'But no , that has happened too often ! Now the end has come , a voice said to me . 
And again it all began . 
The frightful part was that I recognized in myself an indisputable right to the body of my wife , as if her body were entirely mine . 
And I was powerless against him and against her . 
He , like the Vanka of the song , would sing , before mounting the gallows , how he would kiss her sweet lips , etc . 
, and he would even have the best of it before death . 
With her it was still worse . 
If she HAD NOT DONE IT , she had the desire , she wished to do it , and I knew that she did . 
It would be better if she had already done it , to relieve me of my uncertainty . 
In short , I could not say what I desired . 
I desired that she might not want what she MUST want . 
I was cold , my jaw trembled so that my teeth chattered . 
Mechanically I left the station with the crowd , I took a tchik , and I started . 
I looked at the few people passing in the streets and at the dvorniks . 
I read the signs , without thinking of anything . 
Where had I put the bag ? Was it with me ? Yes , and the basket ? I bethought myself that I had totally forgotten my baggage . 
I took out my check , and then decided it was not worth while to return . 
I continued on my way . 
In spite of all my efforts to remember , I cannot at this moment make out why I was in such a hurry . 
I know only that I was conscious that a serious and menacing event was approaching in my life . 
It was a case of real auto suggestion . 
Was it so serious because I thought it so ? Or had I a presentiment ? I do not know . 
Perhaps , too , after what has happened , all previous events have taken on a lugubrious tint in my memory . 
I arrived at the steps . 
It was an hour past midnight . 
Without trying to account for this late illumination , I went up the steps , always with the same expectation of something terrible , and I rang . 
The servant , a good , industrious , and very stupid being , named Gregor , opened the door . 
The first thing that leaped to my eyes in the hall , on the hat stand , among other garments , was an overcoat . 
I ought to have been astonished , but I was not astonished . 
'That's it ! I said to myself . 
When I had asked Gregor who was there , and he had named Troukhatchevsky , I inquired whether there were other visitors . 
I remember the air with which he said that , with a tone that was intended to give me pleasure , and dissipate my doubts . 
'That's it ! that's it ! I had the air of saying to myself . 
'And the children ? 'Thank God , they are very well . 
They went to sleep long ago . 
I scarcely breathed , and I could not keep my jaw from trembling . 
Then it was not as I thought . 
I had often before returned home with the thought that a misfortune had awaited me , but had been mistaken , and everything was going on as usual . 
But now things were not going on as usual . 
All that I had imagined , all that I believed to be chimeras , all really existed . 
And pity for myself vanished , and there remained only the bestial need of some adroit , cunning , and energetic action . 
I became a beast , an intelligent beast . 
'No , no , said I to Gregor , who was about to announce my arrival . 
'Do this , take a carriage , and go at once for my baggage . 
He went along the hall to get his overcoat . 
Fearing lest he might frighten them , I accompanied him to his little room , and waited for him to put on his things . 
In the dining room could be heard the sound of conversation and the rattling of knives and plates . 
They had not heard the ring . 
'Now if they only do not go out , I thought . 
Gregor put on his fur collared coat and went out . 
I closed the door after him . 
I felt anxious when I was alone , thinking that directly I should have to act . 
How ? I did not yet know . 
I knew only that all was ended , that there could be no doubt of his innocence , and that in an instant my relations with her were going to be terminated . 
Before , I had still doubts . 
I said to myself 'Perhaps this is not true . 
Now all doubt had disappeared . 
And to surprise them more quickly , I started on tiptoe for the dining room , not through the parlor , but through the hall and the children's rooms . 
In the first room slept the little boy . 
In the second , the old nurse moved in her bed , and seemed on the point of waking , and I wondered what she would think when she knew all . 
And pity for myself gave me such a pang that I could not keep the tears back . 
Not to wake the children , I ran lightly through the hall into my study . 
I dropped upon the sofa , and sobbed . 
'I , an honest man , I , the son of my parents , who all my life long have dreamed of family happiness , I who have never betrayed ! . 
Perhaps all these children , supposed to be mine , are the children of my servants . 
, and this jealous animal would have remained forever in my heart , tearing it . 
What will the old nurse say ? And Gregor ? And the poor little Lise ? She already understands things . 
And this impudence , this falsehood , this bestial sensuality , that I know so well , I said to myself . 
My heart was beating so violently that I could not hold myself upon my legs . 
'Yes , I shall die of a rush of blood . 
That is what she wants . 
What is it to her to kill ? But that would be too agreeable to him , and I will not allow him to have this pleasure . 
Yes , here I am , and there they are . 
They are laughing , they . 
Yes , in spite of the fact that she is no longer in her early youth , he has not disdained her . 
At any rate , she is by no means ugly , and above all , not dangerous to his dear health , to him . 
And I recalled the state in which I was then . 
Not only did I recall it , but I again entered into the same bestial state . 
I took it from its sheath . 
I remember that the sheath fell upon the sofa , and that I said to myself 'I must look for it later it must not be lost . 
Then I took off my overcoat , which I had kept on all the time , and with wolf like tread started for THE ROOM . 
I remember nothing about it . 
I Remember only the expression of their faces when I opened the door . 
I remember that , because it awakened in me a feeling of sorrowful joy . 
It was an expression of terror , such as I desired . 
Never shall I forget that desperate and sudden fright that appeared on their faces when they saw me . 
He , I believe , was at the table , and , when he saw or heard me , he started , jumped to his feet , and retreated to the sideboard . 
Fear was the only sentiment that could be read with certainty in his face . 
In hers , too , fear was to be read , but accompanied by other impressions . 
And yet , if her face had expressed only fear , perhaps that which happened would not have happened . 
One would have said that her sole desire was not to be disturbed IN THE MOMENT OF HER HAPPINESS . 
But these expressions appeared upon their faces only for a moment . 
Terror almost immediately gave place to interrogation . 
Would they lie or not ? If yes , they must begin . 
If not , something else was going to happen . 
But what ? He gave her a questioning glance . 
On her face the expression of anguish and ennui changed , it seemed to me , when she looked at him , into an expression of anxiety for HIM . 
For a moment I stood in the doorway , holding the dagger hidden behind my back . 
Suddenly he smiled , and in a voice that was indifferent almost to the point of ridicule , he said 'We were having some music . 
'I did not expect , she began at the same time , chiming in with the tone of the other . 
But neither he nor she finished their remarks . 
The same rage that I had felt the previous week took possession of me . 
I felt the need of giving free course to my violence and 'the joy of wrath . 
No , they did not finish . 
That other thing was going to begin , of which he was afraid , and was going to annihilate what they wanted to say . 
I threw myself upon her , still hiding the dagger , that he might not prevent me from striking where I desired , in her bosom , under the breast . 
At that moment he saw . 
I must have been very terrible , for he turned as white as a sheet , to his lips . 
His eyes scintillated singularly , and again what I did not expect of him he scrambled under the piano , toward the other room . 
I tried to follow him , but a very heavy weight fell upon my left arm . 
I made an effort to clear myself . 
She clung more heavily than ever , refusing to let go . 
This unexpected obstacle , this burden , and this repugnant touch only irritated me the more . 
I perceived that I was completely mad , that I must be frightful , and I was glad of it . 
With a sudden impulse , and with all my strength , I dealt her , with my left elbow , a blow squarely in the face . 
She uttered a cry and let go my arm . 
In spite of my extreme rage , I was all the time conscious of the impression that I was making upon others , and even this impression partially guided me . 
She had fallen on the long easy chair , and , covering her face at the spot where I had struck her , she looked at me . 
Her features exhibited fear and hatred toward me , her enemy , such as the rat exhibits when one lifts the rat trap . 
At least , I saw nothing in her but that fear and hatred , the fear and hatred which love for another had provoked . 
Perhaps I still should have restrained myself , and should not have gone to the last extremity , if she had maintained silence . 
But suddenly she began to speak she grasped my hand that held the dagger . 
And the reply must correspond to the condition into which I had lashed myself , and which was increasing and must continue to increase . 
'Do not lie , wretch . 
Do not lie ! I roared . 
With my left hand I seized her hands . 
Then , without dropping my dagger , I seized her by the throat , forced her to the floor , and began to strangle her . 
With her two hands she clutched mine , tearing them from her throat , stifling . 
Then I struck her a blow with the dagger , in the left side , between the lower ribs . 
When people say that they do not remember what they do in a fit of fury , they talk nonsense . 
I did not lose my consciousness for a single moment . 
The more I lashed myself to fury , the clearer my mind became , and I could not help seeing what I did . 
I knew that I struck the blow between the ribs , and that the dagger entered . 
At the second when I did it , I knew that I was performing a horrible act , such as I had never performed , an act that would have frightful consequences . 
My thought was as quick as lightning , and the deed followed immediately . 
The act , to my inner sense , had an extraordinary clearness . 
I perceived the resistance of the corset and then something else , and then the sinking of the knife into a soft substance . 
She clutched at the dagger with her hands , and cut herself with it , but could not restrain the blow . 
I remembered the terrible consciousness which I felt , that I was killing a wife , MY wife . 
She straightened up and cried 'Nurse , he has killed me ! The old nurse , who had heard the noise , was standing in the doorway . 
I was still erect , waiting , and not believing myself in what had happened . 
But at that moment , from under her corset , the blood gushed forth . 
'I must not be agitated . 
I must be conscious of what I am doing , I said to myself , looking neither at her nor at the old nurse . 
The latter cried and called the maid . 
I passed through the hall , and , after having sent the maid , started for my study . 
'What shall I do now ? I asked myself . 
And immediately I understood what I should do . 
Directly after entering the study , I went straight to the wall , took down the revolver , and examined it attentively . 
Then I placed it on the table . 
Next I picked up the sheath of the dagger , which had dropped down behind the sofa , and then I sat down . 
I remained thus for a long time . 
I thought of nothing , I did not try to remember anything . 
I heard a stifled noise of steps , a movement of objects and of tapestries , then the arrival of a person , and then the arrival of another person . 
Then I saw Gregor bring into my room the baggage from the railway as if any one needed it ! 'Have you heard what has happened ? I asked him . 
'Have you told the dvornik to inform the police ? He made no answer , and went out . 
I rose , closed the door , took the cigarettes and the matches , and began to smoke . 
I had not finished one cigarette , when a drowsy feeling came over me and sent me into a deep sleep . 
I surely slept two hours . 
A knock at the door awoke me . 
'It is the police , thought I , as I opened my eyes . 
'I have killed , I believe . 
But perhaps it is SHE perhaps nothing has happened . 
I was solving the question 'Has it happened or not ? Yes , it has happened . 
I remembered the resistance of the corset , and then . 
'Yes , it has happened . 
Yes , it has happened . 
Yes , now I must execute myself , said I to myself . 
I said it , but I knew well that I should not kill myself . 
Now I not only could not kill myself , but I could not even think of it . 
'Why do it ? I asked myself , without answering . 
Another knock at the door . 
'Yes , but I must first know who is knocking . 
I put the revolver back on the table , and hid it under my newspaper . 
I went to the door and drew back the bolt . 
It was my wife's sister , a good and stupid widow . 
'Basile , what does this mean ? said she , and her tears , always ready , began to flow . 
'What do you want ? I asked roughly . 
I saw clearly that there was no necessity of being rough with her , but I could not speak in any other tone . 
'Basile , she is dying . 
Ivan Fedorowitch was the doctor , HER doctor , her counsellor . 
'Is he here ? I inquired . 
And all my hatred of her arose anew . 
Well , what ? 'Basile , go to her ! Ah ! how terrible it is ! said she . 
'If that is the proper thing , I must go , I repeated to myself . 
'Yes , if it is necessary , I shall still have time , said I to myself , thinking of my intention of blowing my brains out . 
And I followed my sister in law . 
'Now there are going to be phrases and grimaces , but I will not yield , I declared to myself . 
'Wait , said I to my sister in law , 'it is stupid to be without boots . 
Let me at least put on my slippers . 
Strange thing ! Again , when I had left my study , and was passing through the familiar rooms , again the hope came to me that nothing had happened . 
But the odor of the drugs , iodoform and phenic acid , brought me back to a sense of reality . 
'No , everything has happened . 
In passing through the hall , beside the children's chamber , I saw little Lise . 
She was looking at me , with eyes that were full of fear . 
I even thought that all the children were looking at me . 
As I approached the door of our sleeping room , a servant opened it from within , and came out . 
The first thing that I noticed was HER light gray dress upon a chair , all dark with blood . 
On our common bed she was stretched , with knees drawn up . 
She lay very high , upon pillows , with her chemise half open . 
Linen had been placed upon the wound . 
A heavy smell of iodoform filled the room . 
Before , and more than anything else , I was astonished at her face , which was swollen and bruised under the eyes and over a part of the nose . 
This was the result of the blow that I had struck her with my elbow , when she had tried to hold me back . 
Of beauty there was no trace left . 
I saw something hideous in her . 
I stopped upon the threshold . 
'Approach , approach her , said her sister . 
'Yes , probably she repents , thought I 'shall I forgive her ? Yes , she is dying , I must forgive her , I added , trying to be generous . 
With difficulty she raised her eyes , one of which was swollen , and uttered these words haltingly 'You have accomplished what you desired . 
And in her face , through the physical sufferings , in spite of the approach of death , was expressed the same old hatred , so familiar to me . 
I will not give them to you . 
But of that which I considered essential , of her fault , of her treason , one would have said that she did not think it necessary to say even a word . 
'Yes , revel in what you have done . 
At the door stood her sister with the children . 
, and for the first time I saw in her a human being , a sister . 
She was silent , with eyelids lowered , evidently having no strength to speak further . 
Then her deformed face began to tremble and shrivel , and she feebly pushed me back . 
'Why has all this happened ? Why ? 'Forgive me , said I. 'Yes , if you had not killed me , she cried suddenly , and her eyes shone feverishly . 
If I only do not die ! Ah , you have accomplished what you desired ! I hate you ! Then she grew delirious . 
She was frightened , and cried 'Fire , I do not fear . 
She no longer recognized the children , not even little Lise , who had approached . 
As for me , I was arrested before her death , at eight o'clock in the morning . 
Yes , I began to understand from the third day . 
The third day they took me to the house . 
Posdnicheff seemed to wish to add something , but , no longer having the strength to repress his sobs , he stopped . 
After a few minutes , having recovered his calmness , he resumed I began to understand only when I saw her in the coffin . 
He uttered a sob , and then immediately continued , with haste Then only , when I saw her dead face , did I understand all that I had done . 
I understood that it was I , I , who had killed her . 
He who has not lived through that cannot understand it . 
We remained silent a long time . 
Posdnicheff sobbed and trembled before me . 
His face had become delicate and long , and his mouth had grown larger . 
Yes , said he suddenly , if I had known what I now know , I should never have married her , never , not for anything . 
Again we remained silent for a long time . 
It is bound in paper covers and will be sent by mail , postage paid , upon receipt of cents . 
Address all orders to J. S. OGILVIE PUBLISHING COMPANY , Rose Street , New York . 
LESSON OF THE KREUTZER SONATA . 
With this request I shall now endeavor to comply . 
Both parents and the government , in consequence of this view , may be said to wink at profligacy , and even in the last resource to encourage its practice . 
I am of opinion that this is not right . 
I am not speaking of gymnastics , or of any of those occupations which may be fitly described as playing at work I mean the genuine toil that fatigues . 
No one need go far in search of proofs that this kind of abstemious living is not merely possible , but far less hurtful to health than excess . 
Hundreds of instances are known to every one . 
This is my first contention . 
I am of opinion that this is not right . 
The origin of the evil is twofold . 
This is my second contention . 
I am of opinion that this is not right . 
This is my third contention . 
They rig them out in all manner of fantastic costumes , wash them , over feed them , and refuse to make them work . 
And in over fed children , as in over fed animals , sensuality is engendered unnaturally early . 
And I am of opinion that this is not right . 
It is high time it ceased . 
This is my fourth contention . 
I am of opinion that this is not right . 
Now , this is not right and should not be done . 
This is my fifth contention . 
How about the human race ? If we admit that celibacy is better and nobler than marriage , evidently the human race will come to an end . 
But , if the logical conclusion of the argument is that the human race will become extinct , the whole reasoning is wrong . 
To that I reply that the argument is not mine I did not invent it . 
It may be pointed out in reply that only that is a true ideal , which , being unattainable , admits of infinite gradation in degrees of proximity . 
Such is the Christian ideal of the founding of God's kingdom , the union of all living creatures by the bonds of love . 
The conception of its attainment is incompatible with the conception of the movement of life . 
What kind of life could subsist if all living creatures were joined together by the bonds of love ? None . 
Our conception of life is inseparably bound up with the conception of a continual striving after an unattainable ideal . 
, nor Christian armies , Christian law courts , nor Christian States . 
This is what was always taught and believed by true Christians of the first and following centuries . 
A Christian's ideal is not marriage , but love for God and for his neighbor . 
Such a thing as Christian marriage never was and never could be . 
Christ did not marry , nor did he establish marriage neither did his disciples marry . 
But if Christian marriage cannot exist , there is such a thing as a Christian view of marriage . 
, I say , cannot view the marriage relation otherwise than as a deviation from the doctrine of Christ , as a sin . 
This is clearly laid down in Matt . 
, and the ceremony called Christian marriage does not alter its character one jot . 
A Christian will never , therefore , desire marriage , but will always avoid it . 
and to aspire together with her to free themselves of their sin . 
This is the Christian view of marriage and there cannot be any other for a man who honestly endeavors to shape his life in accordance with the teachings of Christ . 
To very many persons the thoughts I have uttered here and in The Kreutzer Sonata will seem strange , vague , even contradictory . 
I had not the faintest presentiment that the train of thought I had started would lead me whither it did . 
But man is weak , people will object . 
His task should be regulated by his strength . 
This is tantamount to saying , My hand is weak . 
The weaker my hand , the greater the need that my model should be perfect . 
Copyright , , by CHAS . 
and one daughter , Milania , born dumb . 
Simeon went to war , to serve the Czar Tarras went to a city and became a merchant and Ivan , with his sister , remained at home to work on the farm . 
For his valiant service in the army , Simeon received an estate with high rank , and married a noble's daughter . 
Besides his large pay , he was in receipt of a handsome income from his estate yet he was unable to make ends meet . 
What the husband saved , the wife wasted in extravagance . 
Simeon thereupon went to his father and said You are rich , batiushka little father , but you have given nothing to me . 
Give me one third of what you possess as my share , and I will transfer it to my estate . 
The old man replied You did not help to bring prosperity to our household . 
For what reason , then , should you now demand the third part of everything ? It would be unjust to Ivan and his sister . 
Yes , said Simeon but he is a fool , and she was born dumb . 
What need have they of anything ? See what Ivan will say . 
Ivan's reply was Well , let him take his share . 
Simeon took the portion allotted to him , and went again to serve in the army . 
Tarras also met with success . 
He became rich and married a merchant's daughter , but even this failed to satisfy his desires , and he also went to his father and said , Give me my share . 
It would be unjust , he repeated , to Ivan and his sister . 
Tarras replied But he does not need it . 
He is a fool , and cannot marry , for no one will have him and sister does not require anything , for she was born dumb . 
that the brothers did not quarrel over the division of the property , and that they separated peacefully and he cried out , calling his three small devils . 
See here , said he , there are living three brothers Simeon the soldier , Tarras Briukhan , and Ivan the Fool . 
It is necessary that they should quarrel . 
Now they live peacefully , and enjoy each other's hospitality . 
The Fool spoiled all my plans . 
Now you three go and work with them in such a manner that they will be ready to tear each other's eyes out . 
Can you do this ? We can , they replied . 
Very well I see you understand your business . 
Go , and do not return to me until you have created a feud between the three brothers or I will skin you alive . 
The three small devils went to a swamp to consult as to the best means of accomplishing their mission . 
This agreement being entered into , they appointed a time when they were again to meet in the swamp to find out who was through and who needed assistance . 
The time having arrived , the young devils met in the swamp as agreed , when each related his experience . 
The first , who went to Simeon , said I have succeeded in my undertaking , and to morrow Simeon returns to his father . 
His comrades , eager for particulars , inquired how he had done it . 
The Emperor made him commander in chief of the forces , and sent him with an army to fight the Viceroy of India . 
Having started on their mission of conquest , they were unaware that I , following in their wake , had wet all their powder . 
I also went to the Indian ruler and showed him how I could create numberless soldiers from straw . 
The soldiers , discouraged , retreated in great disorder . 
Thus Simeon brought upon himself the terrible disgrace of defeat . 
His estate was confiscated , and to morrow he is to be executed . 
All that remains for me to do , therefore , concluded the young devil , is to release him to morrow morning . 
Now , then , who wants my assistance ? The second small devil then related his story . 
I do not need any help , he began . 
My business is also all right . 
My work with Tarras will be finished in one week . 
In the first place I made him grow thin . 
He afterward became so covetous that he wanted to possess everything he saw , and he spent all the money he had in the purchase of immense quantities of goods . 
When his capital was gone he still continued to buy with borrowed money , and has become involved in such difficulties that he cannot free himself . 
At the conclusion of this narrative they inquired of the third devil how things had fared between him and Ivan . 
Well , said he , my report is not so encouraging . 
The first thing I did was to spit into his jug of quass a sour drink made from rye , which made him sick at his stomach . 
He afterward went to plow his summer fallow , but I made the soil so hard that the plow could scarcely penetrate it . 
I thought the Fool would not succeed , but he started to work nevertheless . 
Moaning with pain , he still continued to labor . 
I broke one plow , but he replaced it with another , fixing it securely , and resumed work . 
Going beneath the surface of the ground I took hold of the plowshares , but did not succeed in stopping Ivan . 
He concluded with Come , brothers , and help me , for if we do not conquer him our whole enterprise will be a failure . 
If the Fool is permitted successfully to conduct his farming , they will have no need , for he will support his brothers . 
Ivan having succeeded in plowing all but a small portion of his land , he returned the next day to finish it . 
The pain in his stomach continued , but he felt that he must go on with his work . 
He tried to start his plow , but it would not move it seemed to have struck a hard root . 
It was the small devil in the ground who had wound his feet around the plowshares and held them . 
This is strange , thought Ivan . 
There were never any roots here before , and this is surely one . 
Ivan put his hand in the ground , and , feeling something soft , grasped and pulled it out . 
It was like a root in appearance , but seemed to possess life . 
Holding it up he saw that it was a little devil . 
What can you do for me ? Tell me what it is you most wish for , the little devil replied . 
Ivan , peasant fashion , scratched the back of his head as he thought , and finally he said I am dreadfully sick at my stomach . 
Can you cure me ? I can , the little devil said . 
Ivan did as directed , and obtained instant relief . 
I beg of you to let me go now , the little devil pleaded I will pass into the earth , never to return . 
Ivan placed in his hat what roots he had left , and proceeded to plow . 
Soon finishing his work , he turned his plow over and returned home . 
When he reached the house he found his brother Simeon and his wife seated at the supper table . 
Turning to Ivan he said I came to ask you to care for us until I can find something to do . 
Very well , Ivan replied you may remain with us . 
Simeon the soldier turned to his brother and said My lady objects to the smell of your clothes . 
You may eat in the porch . 
Ivan said Very well , it is all the same to me . 
I will soon have to go and feed my horse any way . 
in the other , and left the room . 
He went to the field and searched everywhere , but could find nothing but the hole through which the small devil had disappeared . 
Well , this is strange , he said something must have happened to my companion , and I will have to take his place and continue the work he began . 
The Fool is through with his plowing , so I must look about me for some other means of compassing his destruction . 
I must overflow his meadow and prevent him from cutting the grass . 
Many times Ivan tried to cut the grass , but always without success . 
Hearing this , the little devil became thoughtful , saying That Ivan is a koolak hard case , and I must think of some other way of conquering him . 
Ivan soon returned with his sharpened scythe and started to mow . 
When Ivan came to the swamp he found that the grass was not very thick . 
Early next day , when the devil came to the field , he found that the oats had been already mowed . 
Ivan did it during the night , so as to avoid the loss that might have resulted from the grain being too ripe and dry . 
Seeing that Ivan again had escaped him , the little devil became greatly enraged , saying He cut me all over and made me tired , that fool . 
I did not meet such misfortune even on the battle field . 
He does not even sleep and the devil began to swear . 
I cannot follow him , he continued . 
I will go now to the heaps and make everything rotten . 
Accordingly he went to a heap of the new mown grain and began his fiendish work . 
After wetting it he built a fire and warmed himself , and soon was fast asleep . 
Ivan harnessed his horse , and , with his sister , went to bring the rye home from the field . 
Ivan exclaimed See here ! What nastiness ! You again here ? I am another one ! said the little devil . 
I am the one who was sent to your brother Simeon . 
Well , said Ivan , it matters not who you are . 
I will fix you all the same . 
As Ivan was about to strike the first blow the devil pleaded Let me go and I will do you no more harm . 
I will do whatever you wish . 
What can you do for me ? asked Ivan . 
I can make soldiers from almost anything . 
And what will they be good for ? Oh , they will do everything for you ! Can they sing ? They can . 
Take a bunch of straw and scatter it on the ground , and see if each straw will not turn into a soldier . 
Ivan shook the straws on the ground , and , as he expected , each straw turned into a soldier , and they began marching with a band at their head . 
Ishty look you , that was well done ! How it will delight the village maidens ! he exclaimed . 
The small devil now said Let me go you do not need me any longer . 
But Ivan said No , I will not let you go just yet . 
The devil replied Say 'So many soldiers , so much straw . 
Ivan did as directed , and got back his rye with the straw . 
The small devil again begged for his release . 
Soon afterward Ivan returned home , to find his brother Tarras and his wife there . 
Tarras Briukhan could not pay his debts , and was forced to flee from his creditors and seek refuge under his father's roof . 
With that announcement he removed his coat and seated himself at the supper table with the others . 
But Tarras Briukhan's wife objected to the smell of his clothes , saying I cannot eat with a fool neither can I stand the smell . 
Then Tarras Briukhan said Ivan , from your clothes there comes a bad smell go and eat by yourself in the porch . 
Very well , said Ivan and he took some bread and went out as ordered , saying , It is time for me to feed my mare . 
CHAPTER V. The small devil who had charge of Tarras finished with him that night , and according to agreement proceeded to the assistance of the other two to help them conquer Ivan . 
The small devil then went in search of Ivan . 
But he , having finished with the field , was nowhere to be found . 
He had gone to the forest to cut logs to build homes for his brothers , as they found it inconvenient for so many to live under the same roof . 
The small devil at last discovered his whereabouts , and going to the forest climbed into the branches of the trees and began to interfere with Ivan's work . 
In chopping down the next tree he met with the same difficulties , and also with the third . 
Ivan had supposed he could cut down fifty trees in a day , but he succeeded in chopping but ten before darkness put an end to his labors for a time . 
He was now exhausted , and , perspiring profusely , he sat down alone in the woods to rest . 
He soon after resumed his work , cutting down one more tree but the effort gave him a pain in his back , and he was obliged to rest again . 
Seeing this , the small devil was full of joy . 
Well , he thought , now he is exhausted and will stop work , and I will rest also . 
He then seated himself on some branches and rejoiced . 
Very much astonished , Ivan exclaimed Look you ! Such nastiness ! Are you again here ? I am another one , replied the devil . 
I was with your brother Tarras . 
Well , said Ivan , that makes no difference I will fix you . 
And he was about to strike him a blow with the axe when the devil pleaded Do not kill me , and whatever you wish you shall have . 
Ivan asked , What can you do ? I can make for you all the money you wish . 
Ivan then told the devil he might proceed , whereupon the latter began to explain to him how he might become rich . 
Take , said he to Ivan , the leaves of this oak tree and rub them in your hands , and the gold will fall to the ground . 
Ivan did as he was directed , and immediately the gold began to drop about his feet and he remarked This will be a fine trick to amuse the village boys with . 
Can I now take my departure ? asked the devil , to which Ivan replied , With God's blessing you may go . 
At the mention of the name of God , the devil disappeared into the earth . 
The brothers , having finished their houses , moved into them and lived apart from their father and brother . 
Ivan , when he had completed his plowing , made a great feast , to which he invited his brothers , telling them that he had plenty of beer for them to drink . 
The brothers , however , declined Ivan's hospitality , saying , We have seen the beer moujiks drink , and want none of it . 
, and told them they must sing his praises , saying that in return he would show them such sights as they had never before seen in their lives . 
The little girls laughed and began to sing songs praising Ivan , and when they had finished they said Very well now give us what you said you would . 
Ivan replied , I will soon show you , and , taking an empty bag in his hand , he started for the woods . 
The little girls laughed as they said , What a fool he is ! and resuming their play they forgot all about him . 
Some time after Ivan suddenly appeared among them carrying in his hand the bag , which was now filled . 
Shall I divide this with you ? he said . 
Yes divide ! they sang in chorus . 
So Ivan put his hand into the bag and drew it out full of gold coins , which he scattered among them . 
Batiushka , they cried as they ran to gather up the precious pieces . 
The moujiks then appeared on the scene and began to fight among themselves for the possession of the yellow objects . 
In the melee one old woman was nearly crushed to death . 
Ivan laughed and was greatly amused at the sight of so many persons quarrelling over a few pieces of gold . 
, he said , why did you almost crush the life out of the old grandmother ? Be more gentle . 
I have plenty more , and I will give them to you whereupon he began throwing about more of the coins . 
The people gathered around him , and Ivan continued throwing until he emptied his bag . 
They clamored for more , but Ivan replied The gold is all gone . 
Another time I will give you more . 
Now we will r sum our singing and dancing . 
The little children sang , but Ivan said to them , Your songs are no good . 
The children said , Then show us how to sing better . 
To this Ivan replied , I will show you people who can sing better than you . 
The people were astonished and could not understand how Ivan had produced the strangers . 
The soldiers sang for some time , to the great delight of the villagers and when Ivan commanded them to stop they instantly ceased . 
Ivan then ordered them off to the barn , telling the astonished and mystified moujiks that they must not follow him . 
Reaching the barn , he turned the soldiers again into straw and went home to sleep off the effects of his debauch . 
Explain to me , he said from whence did you bring the soldiers , and where did you take them ? And what do you wish to know for ? asked Ivan . 
Why , with soldiers we can do almost anything we wish whole kingdoms can be conquered , replied Simeon . 
This information greatly surprised Ivan , who said Well , why did you not tell me about this before ? I can make as many as you want . 
Simeon promised to do as Ivan wished , whereupon Ivan proceeded to convert the straw into soldiers . 
Out of one bundle of straw he made an entire regiment in fact , so many soldiers appeared as if by magic that there was not a vacant spot in the field . 
I have plenty of straw now . 
Simeon divided his soldiers into battalions and regiments , and after having drilled them he went forth to fight and to conquer . 
Ivan was greatly surprised on hearing this statement , and said You might have told me this before , for I can obtain for you as much money as you wish . 
Tarras was delighted , and he said , You might get me about three bushels . 
Well , said Ivan , we will go to the woods , or , better still , we will harness the horse , as we could not possibly carry so much money ourselves . 
Ivan then said If you wish more , come to me and I will rub as much as you want , for there are plenty of leaves . 
filled with gold , rode away to the city to engage in trade and increase his wealth and thus both brothers went their way , Simeon to fight and Tarras to trade . 
Simeon's soldiers conquered a kingdom for him and Tarras Briukhan made plenty of money . 
Some time afterward the two brothers met and confessed to each other the source from whence sprang their prosperity , but they were not yet satisfied . 
They went again to Ivan , and Simeon said I have not sufficient soldiers I want you to make me at least two divisions more . 
But Ivan shook his head as he said I will not create soldiers for nothing you must pay me for doing it . 
Well , but you promised , said Simeon . 
I know I did , replied Ivan but I have changed my mind since that time . 
With this reply Ivan remained stubborn and would not create any more soldiers . 
I cannot work without pay . 
Tarras then reminded him of his promise . 
I know I promised , replied Ivan but still I must refuse to do as you wish . 
But why , fool , will you not fulfill your promise ? asked Tarras . 
For the reason that your gold was the means of depriving Mikhailovna of her cow . 
But how did that happen ? inquired Tarras . 
It happened in this way , said Ivan . 
Our mother could not resist the temptation , and now we have no milk to drink . 
I gave you the gold pieces for your pleasure , and you put them to such poor use that I will not give you any more . 
The brothers , on hearing this , took their departure to discuss as to the best plan to pursue in regard to a settlement of their troubles . 
To this arrangement Tarras agreed , and both the brothers became rulers and very happy . 
Ivan remained on the farm and worked to support his father , mother , and dumb sister . 
It happened that when he turned out the bread the root which the little devil had given him fell out also . 
The old dog swallowed it with the bread and was almost instantly cured , when he jumped up and began to wag his tail as an expression of joy . 
Ivan's father and mother , seeing the dog cured so quickly , asked by what means he had performed such a miracle . 
Ivan replied I had some roots which would cure any disease , and the dog swallowed one of them . 
This announcement , of course , appeared in Ivan's village . 
Ivan's father and mother called him and said If you have any of those wonderful roots , go and cure the Czar's daughter . 
You will be much happier for having performed such a kind act indeed , you will be made happy for all your after life . 
Very well , said Ivan and he immediately made ready for the journey . 
As he reached the porch on his way out he saw a poor woman standing directly in his path and holding a broken arm . 
He produced a root which he handed to the poor woman and told her to swallow it . 
She did as Ivan told her and was instantly cured , and went away rejoicing that she had recovered the use of her arm . 
On hearing this his parents were much distressed , as they now believed him to be without the means of curing the Czar's daughter , and began to scold him . 
You had pity for a beggar and gave no thought to the Czar's daughter , they said . 
In due time he arrived at the palace , and the moment he appeared on the balcony the Czar's daughter was cured . 
The Czar was overjoyed and ordered Ivan to be brought into his presence . 
He dressed him in the richest robes and addressed him as his son in law . 
Ivan was married to the Czarevna , and , the Czar dying soon after , Ivan became ruler . 
Thus the three brothers became rulers in different kingdoms . 
The brothers lived and reigned . 
Simeon , the eldest brother , with his straw soldiers took captive the genuine soldiers and trained all alike . 
He was feared by every one . 
Tarras Briukhan , the other brother , did not squander the gold he obtained from Ivan , but instead greatly increased his wealth , and at the same time lived well . 
He kept his money in large trunks , and , while having more than he knew what to do with , still continued to collect money from his subjects . 
The people had to work for the money to pay the taxes which Tarras levied on them , and life was made burdensome to them . 
Ivan the Fool did not enjoy his wealth and power to the same extent as did his brothers . 
Having cast aside the insignia of his rank , he once more donned his peasant garb and started to work as of old . 
I felt lonesome , he said , and began to grow enormously stout , and yet I had no appetite , and neither could I sleep . 
Ivan sent for his father , mother , and dumb sister , and brought them to live with him , and they worked with him at whatever he chose to do . 
The people soon learned that Ivan was a fool . 
His wife one day said to him , The people say you are a fool , Ivan . 
Well , let them think so if they wish , he replied . 
She succeeded so well that she soon became a great help to Ivan . 
Seeing that Ivan was a fool , all the wise men left the kingdom and only the fools remained . 
They had no money , their wealth consisting only of the products of their labor . 
But they lived peacefully together , supported themselves in comfort , and had plenty to spare for the needy and afflicted . 
CHAPTER X. The old devil grew tired of waiting for the good news which he expected the little devils to bring him . 
He waited in vain to hear of the ruin of the brothers , so he went in search of the emissaries which he had sent to perform that work for him . 
The old devil next went in search of the brothers , but he could learn nothing of their whereabouts . 
After some time he found them in their different kingdoms , contented and happy . 
This greatly incensed the old devil , and he said , I will now have to accomplish their mission myself . 
, saying You , Simeon , are a great warrior , and I also have had considerable experience in warfare , and am desirous of serving you . 
Simeon questioned the disguised devil , and seeing that he was an intelligent man took him into his service . 
The new General taught Simeon how to strengthen his army until it became very powerful . 
New implements of warfare were introduced . 
Cannons capable of throwing one hundred balls a minute were also constructed , and these , it was expected , would be of deadly effect in battle . 
Simeon , on the advice of his new General , ordered all young men above a certain age to report for drill . 
On the same advice Simeon established gun shops , where immense numbers of cannons and rifles were made . 
The next move of the new General was to have Simeon declare war against the neighboring kingdom . 
This he did , and with his immense army marched into the adjoining territory , which he pillaged and burned , destroying more than half the enemy's soldiers . 
This so frightened the ruler of that country that he willingly gave up half of his kingdom to save the other half . 
Simeon , overjoyed at his success , declared his intention of marching into Indian territory and subduing the Viceroy of that country . 
But Simeon's intentions reached the ears of the Indian ruler , who prepared to do battle with him . 
In addition to having secured all the latest implements of warfare , he added still others of his own invention . 
He ordered all boys over fourteen and all single women to be drafted into the army , until its proportions became much larger than Simeon's . 
His cannons and rifles were of the same pattern as Simeon's , and he invented a flying machine from which bombs could be thrown into the enemy's camp . 
Simeon went forth to conquer the Viceroy with full confidence in his own powers to succeed . 
This time luck forsook him , and instead of being the conqueror he was himself conquered . 
The Viceroy took possession of his kingdom and Simeon had to fly for his life . 
Having finished with Simeon , the old devil next approached Tarras . 
He appeared before him disguised as one of the merchants of his kingdom , and established factories and began to make money . 
The merchant paid the highest price for everything he purchased , and the people ran after him to sell their goods . 
Through this merchant they were enabled to make plenty of money , paying up all their arrears of taxes as well as the others when they came due . 
Tarras was overjoyed at this condition of affairs and said Thanks to this merchant , now I will have more money than before , and life will be much pleasanter for me . 
He wished to erect new buildings , and advertised for workmen , offering the highest prices for all kinds of labor . 
Tarras thought the people would be as anxious to work as formerly , but instead he was much surprised to learn that they were working for the merchant . 
Thinking to induce them to leave the merchant , he increased his offers , but the former , equal to the emergency , also raised the wages of his workmen . 
Tarras , having plenty of money , increased the offers still more but the merchant raised them still higher and got the better of him . 
Thus , defeated at every point , Tarras was compelled to abandon the idea of building . 
The 'merchant' has bought them all , paying a very high price for them . 
Tarras was at last compelled to suspend business , as he could not find any one willing to work for him . 
They had all gone over to the merchant's side . 
The only dealings the people had with Tarras were when they went to pay their taxes . 
His money accumulated so fast that he could not find a place to put it , and his life became miserable . 
He abandoned all idea of entering upon the new venture , and only thought of how to exist peaceably . 
This he found it difficult to do , for , turn which way he would , fresh obstacles confronted him . 
Even his cooks , coachmen , and all his other servants forsook him and joined the merchant . 
With all his wealth he had nothing to eat , and when he went to market he found the merchant had been there before him and had bought up all the provisions . 
Still , the people continued to bring him money . 
Tarras at last became so indignant that he ordered the merchant out of his kingdom . 
He left , but settled just outside the boundary line , and continued his business with the same result as before , and Tarras was frequently forced to go without food for days . 
It was rumored that the merchant wanted to buy even Tarras himself . 
On hearing this the latter became very much alarmed and could not decide as to the best course to pursue . 
About this time his brother Simeon arrived in the kingdom , and said Help me , for I have been defeated and ruined by the Indian Viceroy . 
Tarras replied How can I help you , when I have had no food myself for two days ? CHAPTER XI . 
The old devil , having finished with the second brother , went to Ivan the Fool . 
This time he disguised himself as a General , the same as in the case of Simeon , and , appearing before Ivan , said Get an army together . 
It is disgraceful for the ruler of a kingdom to be without an army . 
You call your people to assemble , and I will form them into a fine large army . 
Ivan took the supposed General's advice , and said Well , you may form my people into an army , but you must also teach them to sing the songs I like . 
Thus was the devil foiled in securing recruits for his army so he returned to Ivan and said Your fools will not volunteer to be soldiers . 
It will therefore be necessary to force them . 
Very well , replied Ivan , you may use force if you want to . 
The old devil then announced that all the fools must become soldiers , and those who refused , Ivan would punish with death . 
We have been told that we are only to be killed . 
Yes , that is true , was the reply . 
The fools on hearing this became stubborn and refused to go . 
Better kill us now if we cannot avoid death , but we will not become soldiers , they declared . 
Oh ! you fools , said the old devil , soldiers may and may not be killed but if you disobey Ivan's orders you will find certain death at his hands . 
The fools remained absorbed in thought for some time and finally went to Ivan to question him in regard to the matter . 
Is it true ? Ivan began to laugh heartily on hearing this , and said Well , how I alone can punish you with death is something I cannot understand . 
If I was not a fool myself I would be able to explain it to you , but as it is I cannot . 
Well , then , we will not go , they said . 
Very well , replied Ivan , you need not become soldiers unless you wish to . 
The old devil , seeing his schemes about to prove failures , went to the ruler of Tarakania and became his friend , saying Let us go and conquer Ivan's kingdom . 
He has no money , but he has plenty of cattle , provisions , and various other things that would be useful to us . 
The Tarakanian ruler gathered his large army together , and equipping it with cannons and rifles , crossed the boundary line into Ivan's kingdom . 
The people went to Ivan and said The ruler of Tarakania is here with a large army to fight us . 
Let them come , replied Ivan . 
They soon reached the first village , which they began to plunder . 
The fools of both sexes looked calmly on , offering not the least resistance when their cattle and provisions were being taken from them . 
The soldiers decided to remain , finding the people happy and prosperous , with enough surplus food to supply many of their neighbors . 
We would much prefer the dangers of actual warfare to this unsoldierly method of subduing the village . 
The Tarakanian ruler , becoming enraged , ordered the soldiers to destroy the whole kingdom , plunder the villages , burn the houses and provisions , and slaughter the cattle . 
Should you disobey my orders , said he , I will have every one of you executed . 
Why do you treat us so cruelly ? they cried to the invading soldiers . 
The nobleman said to Ivan I desire to teach you wisdom and to render you other service . 
I will build you a palace and factories . 
Very well , said Ivan you may live with us . 
You are to build a house for me according to this plan . 
I will superintend the work myself , and will pay you for your services in gold , showing them at the same time the contents of his sack . 
They had never before seen any money . 
Their business was conducted entirely by exchange of farm products or by hiring themselves out to work by the day in return for whatever they most needed . 
The old devil was overjoyed as he thought , Now my enterprise is on a fair road and I will be able to ruin the Fool as I did his brothers . 
When they had secured all they wanted they stopped working and the noblemen did not get his house more than half finished . 
He had neither provisions nor cattle for the year , and ordered the people to bring him both . 
He directed them also to go on with the building of the palace and factories . 
He promised to pay them liberally in gold for everything they did . 
No one responded to his call only once in awhile a little boy or girl would call to exchange eggs for his gold . 
Thus was the nobleman deserted , and , having nothing to eat , he went to the village to procure some provisions for his dinner . 
He went to one house and offered gold in return for a chicken , but was refused , the owner saying We have enough of that already and do not want any more . 
I have three pieces which I keep as curiosities only . 
He then went to a peasant to buy bread , but he also refused to accept the gold . 
The old devil was so angry that he ran away from the peasant , spitting and cursing as he went . 
Not only did the offer to accept in the name of Christ anger him , but the very mention of the name was like the thrust of a knife in his throat . 
The old devil did not succeed in getting any bread , and in his efforts to secure other articles of food he met with the same failure . 
The people had all the gold they wanted and what pieces they had they regarded as curiosities . 
They said to the old devil If you bring us something else in exchange for food , or come to ask for Christ's sake , we will give you all you want . 
But the old devil had nothing but gold , and was too lazy to work and being unable to accept anything for Christ's sake , he was greatly enraged . 
What else do you want ? he said . 
I will give you gold with which you can buy everything you want , and you need labor no longer . 
But the fools would not accept his gold , nor listen to him . 
Thus the old devil was obliged to go to sleep hungry . 
Tidings of this condition of affairs soon reached the ears of Ivan . 
He only offers every one gold pieces . 
At first we gave him everything he wanted , taking the gold pieces in exchange just as curiosities but now we have enough of them and refuse to accept any more from him . 
The old devil saw no other way out of the difficulty and was obliged to submit . 
It soon came the old devil's turn to go to Ivan's house . 
He went there to dinner and found Ivan's dumb sister preparing the meal . 
She was often cheated by the lazy people , who while they did not work , yet ate up all the gruel . 
But she learned to know the lazy people from the condition of their hands . 
Those with great welts on their hands she invited first to the table , and those having smooth white hands had to take what was left . 
With it you must be satisfied . 
People who work for a living are not always forced to labor with their hands . 
Do you think wise men labor so ? Ivan replied Well , what do fools know about it ? We all work with our hands . 
And for that reason you are fools , replied the devil . 
I can teach you how to use your brains , and you will find such labor more beneficial . 
Ivan was surprised at hearing this , and said Well , it is perhaps not without good reason that we are called fools . 
It is not so easy to work with the brain , the old devil said . 
Then why do you not select some light work that you can perform with your hands ? Ivan asked . 
I have exercised my brain a great deal during my life , and now I am able to teach you . 
Ivan was greatly surprised and said Very well teach us , so that when our hands are tired we can use our heads to replace them . 
The devil promised to instruct the people , and Ivan announced the fact throughout his kingdom . 
So the old devil went up to the balcony and addressed the people . 
The fools came in great crowds to hear what the old devil had to say , thinking that he really meant to tell them how to work with the head . 
But the old devil only told them in words what to do , and did not give them any practical instruction . 
He said that men working only with their hands could not make a living . 
The fools did not understand what he said to them and looked at him in amazement , and then departed for their daily work . 
The old devil addressed them for two days from the balcony , and at the end of that time , feeling hungry , he asked the people to bring him some bread . 
But they only laughed at him and told him if he could work better with his head than with his hands he could also find bread for himself . 
He addressed the people for yet another day , and they went to hear him from curiosity , but soon left him to return to their work . 
Ivan asked , Well , did the nobleman work with his head ? Not yet , they said so far he has only talked . 
One day , while the old devil was standing on the balcony , he became weak , and , falling down , hurt his head against a pole . 
Seeing this , one of the fools ran to Ivan's wife and said , The gentleman has at last commenced to work with his head . 
She ran to the field to tell Ivan , who was much surprised , and said , Let us go and see him . 
While Ivan was looking , the old devil started down the steps head first as they supposed , to count them . 
Well , said Ivan , he told the truth after all that sometimes from this kind of work the head bursts . 
This is far worse than welts on the hands . 
The old devil fell to the ground head foremost . 
Ivan approached him , but at that instant the ground opened and the devil disappeared , leaving only a hole to show where he had gone . 
Ivan scratched his head and said See here such nastiness ! This is yet another devil . 
He looks like the father of the little ones . 
Ivan still lives , and people flock to his kingdom . 
His brothers come to him and he feeds them . 
To every one who comes to him and says , Give us food , he replies Very well you are welcome . 
We have plenty of everything . 
Then came Peter to Him , and said , Lord , how oft shall my brother sin against me , and I forgive him ? till seven times ? . 
So likewise shall My heavenly Father do also unto you , if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses . 
In a certain village there lived a peasant by the name of Ivan Scherbakoff . 
He was prosperous , strong , and vigorous , and was considered the hardest worker in the whole village . 
He had three sons , who supported themselves by their own labor . 
The eldest was married , the second about to be married , and the youngest took care of the horses and occasionally attended to the plowing . 
The peasant's wife , Ivanovna , was intelligent and industrious , while her daughter in law was a simple , quiet soul , but a hard worker . 
Ivan had plenty of everything three horses , with one colt , a cow with calf , and fifteen sheep . 
The women made the men's clothes , and in addition to performing all the necessary household labor , also worked in the field while the men's industry was confined altogether to the farm . 
What was left of the previous year's supply of provisions was ample for their needs , and they sold a quantity of oats sufficient to pay their taxes and other expenses . 
Thus life went smoothly for Ivan . 
The peasant's next door neighbor was a son of Gordey Ivanoff , called Gavryl the Lame . 
If the women of one house required the use of a sieve or pail , they borrowed it from the inmates of the other house . 
The same condition of affairs existed between the men . 
They lived more like one family , the one dividing his possessions with the other , and perfect harmony reigned between the two families . 
In the same way they had no secrets from each other . 
The doors of their houses and barns had neither bolts nor locks , so sure were they of each other's honesty . 
Not a shadow of suspicion darkened their daily intercourse . 
Thus lived the old people . 
In time the younger members of the two households started farming . 
It soon became apparent that they would not get along as peacefully as the old people had done , for they began quarrelling without the slightest provocation . 
A hen belonging to Ivan's daughter in law commenced laying eggs , which the young woman collected each morning , intending to keep them for the Easter holidays . 
She made daily visits to the barn , where , under an old wagon , she was sure to find the precious egg . 
One day the children frightened the hen and she flew over their neighbor's fence and laid her egg in their garden . 
I will go for the egg later on . 
When evening came , and she had finished her task , she went to the barn , and as usual looked under the old wagon , expecting to find an egg . 
But , alas ! no egg was visible in the accustomed place . 
Greatly disappointed , she returned to the house and inquired of her mother in law and the other members of the family if they had taken it . 
No , they said , we know nothing of it . 
Taraska , the youngest brother in law , coming in soon after , she also inquired of him if he knew anything about the missing egg . 
Yes , he replied your pretty , crested hen laid her egg in our neighbors' garden , and after she had finished cackling she flew back again over the fence . 
The young woman , greatly surprised on hearing this , turned and looked long and seriously at the hen , which was sitting with closed eyes beside the rooster in the chimney corner . 
She asked the hen where it laid the egg . 
At the sound of her voice it simply opened and closed its eyes , but could make no answer . 
We hunt only for the eggs our own hens lay , and have no use for the eggs other people's hens lay . 
Another thing I want to tell you , young woman we do not go into other people's yards to look for eggs . 
The neighbor replied in the same angry manner , and finally the women began to abuse each other and call vile names . 
It happened that old Ivan's wife , on her way to the well for water , heard the dispute , and joined the others , taking her daughter in law's part . 
Gavryl's housekeeper , hearing the noise , could not resist the temptation to join the rest and to make her voice heard . 
As soon as she appeared on the scene , she , too , began to abuse her neighbor , reminding her of many disagreeable things which had happened between them . 
She became so infuriated during her denunciations that she lost all control of herself , and ran around like some mad creature . 
Then all the women began to shout at the same time , each trying to say two words to another's one , and using the vilest language in the quarreller's vocabulary . 
You are such and such , shouted one of the women . 
You are a thief , a schlukha a mean , dirty , low creature your father in law is even now starving , and you have no shame . 
You beggar , you borrowed my sieve and broke it . 
You made a large hole in it , and did not buy me another . 
In the melee which followed they upset the pails of water . 
They tore the covering from each other's head , and a general fight ensued . 
Gavryl's wife had by this time joined in the fracas , and he , crossing the field and seeing the trouble , came to her rescue . 
Ivan and his son , seeing that their womenfolk were being badly used , jumped into the midst of the fray , and a fearful fight followed . 
Ivan was the most powerful peasant in all the country round , and it did not take him long to disperse the crowd , for they flew in all directions . 
During the progress of the fight Ivan tore out a large quantity of Gavryl's beard . 
By this time a large crowd of peasants had collected , and it was with the greatest difficulty that they persuaded the two families to stop quarrelling . 
and entered a complaint against Ivan . 
And so the quarrelling went on . 
He said to them You children are making a great fuss and much trouble about nothing . 
I beg of you to stop and think of what a little thing has caused all this trouble . 
It has arisen from only one egg . 
If our neighbors' children picked it up , it is all right . 
God bless them ! One egg is of but little value , and without it God will supply sufficient for all our needs . 
Ivan's daughter in law here interposed and said , But they called us vile names . 
Such conduct on your part would have been best for all concerned . 
He continued Well , you had a fight , you wicked people . 
Such things sometimes happen , but it would be better if you went afterward and asked forgiveness and buried your grievances out of sight . 
Scatter them to the four winds of heaven , for if you do not do so it will be the worse for you in the end . 
Ivan refused to go to his neighbor , as the grandfather wished , saying I did not tear out Gavryl's beard . 
He did it himself , and his son tore my shirt and trousers into shreds . 
Ivan entered suit against Gavryl . 
He first went to the village justice , and not getting satisfaction from him he carried his case to the village court . 
They said We saw him in the night time pass by our window , on his way to where the wagon was standing . 
And my kumushka sponsor , said one of them , told me that Ivan's son had offered it for sale at the kabak tavern . 
This accusation caused them again to go into court for a settlement of their grievances . 
While the heads of the families were trying to have their troubles settled in court , their home quarrels were constant , and frequently resulted in hand to hand encounters . 
Even the little children followed the example of their elders and quarrelled incessantly . 
At first the male members of the families were content with accusing each other of various crimes , such as stealing and like meannesses . 
But the trouble in this mild form did not last long . 
They soon resorted to other measures . 
They began to appropriate one another's things without asking permission , while various articles disappeared from both houses and could not be found . 
This was done out of revenge . 
This example being set by the men , the women and children also followed , and life soon became a burden to all who took part in the strife . 
, in addition to having been in court and calling on the justice of the peace . 
Both of the latter had grown tired of them and their incessant wrangling . 
One time Gavryl would succeed in having Ivan fined , and if he was not able to pay it he would be locked up in the cold dreary prison for days . 
Then it would be Ivan's turn to get Gavryl punished in like manner , and the greater the injury the one could do the other the more delight he took in it . 
The success of either in having the other punished only served to increase their rage against each other , until they were like mad dogs in their warfare . 
If anything went wrong with one of them he immediately accused his adversary of conspiring to ruin him , and sought revenge without stopping to inquire into the rights of the case . 
When the peasants went into court , and had each other fined and imprisoned , it did not soften their hearts in the least . 
They would only taunt one another on such occasions , saying Never mind I will repay you for all this . 
This state of affairs lasted for six years . 
Ivan's father , the sick old man , constantly repeated his good advice . 
Again was the wise advice of the old man rejected . 
At the beginning of the seventh year of the existence of the feud it happened that a daughter in law of Ivan's was present at a marriage . 
At the wedding feast she openly accused Gavryl of stealing a horse . 
The woman being in delicate health , the worst results were feared . 
On examining the complaint the district attorney would not consider it , as by that time the injured woman was walking about and as well as ever . 
By this means he succeeded in securing a verdict against Gavryl . 
The sentence was that Gavryl was to receive twenty lashes on his bare back , and the punishment was to be administered in the yard which surrounded the court house . 
When Ivan heard the sentence read he looked triumphantly at Gavryl to see what effect it would produce on him . 
Gavryl turned very white on hearing that he was to be treated with such indignity , and turning his back on the assembly left the room without uttering a word . 
A messenger was immediately sent in search of Gavryl , who was soon found and again brought into the presence of the judges . 
Is it true , they asked , that you said you would burn Ivan's house and all it contained ? Gavryl replied I did not say anything of the kind . 
You may give me as many lashes as you please that is , if you have the power to do so . 
It seems to me that I alone have to suffer for the truth , while he , pointing to Ivan , is allowed to do and say what he pleases . 
Gavryl wished to say something more , but his lips trembled , and the words refused to come so in silence he turned his face toward the wall . 
See here , my brothers , said one feeble old judge , looking at Ivan and Gavryl as he spoke , I think you had better try to arrange this matter peaceably . 
You , brother Gavryl , did wrong to strike a woman who was in delicate health . 
Go , Gavryl , and make friends with Ivan I am sure he will forgive you , and we will set aside the verdict just given . 
The secretary on hearing this said It is impossible to do this on the present case . 
According to Article this matter has gone too far to be settled peaceably now , as the verdict has been rendered and must be enforced . 
But the judges would not listen to the secretary , saying to him You talk altogether too much . 
You must remember that the first thing is to fulfill God's command to 'Love thy neighbor as thyself , and all will be well with you . 
Thus with kind words the judges tried to reconcile the two peasants . 
Their words fell on stony ground , however , for Gavryl would not listen to them . 
Well , he will have cause to remember this . 
At this Gavryl's voice trembled and he stopped speaking , and turning his back on the judges took his departure . 
It was about ten versts' distance from the court to the homes of the neighbors , and this Ivan travelled late . 
The women had already gone out for the cattle . 
, but found no one there . 
The men had not yet returned from their work in the field and the women had gone to look for the cattle , so that all about the place was quiet . 
Going into the room , Ivan seated himself on a wooden bench and soon became lost in thought . 
His thoughts were interrupted by the coughing of his father , who was lying on the oven . 
The old man , on seeing Ivan , came down off the oven , and slowly approaching his son seated himself on the bench beside him , looking at him as though ashamed . 
He continued to cough as he leaned on the table and said , Well , did they sentence him ? Yes , they sentenced him to receive twenty lashes , replied Ivan . 
Well , suppose his sentence IS carried out , and he gets the twenty lashes , what will it benefit you ? He will not again strike a woman , Ivan replied . 
You think that you know everything and that I do not know anything . 
No ! you are still a child , and as such you cannot see that a kind of madness controls your actions and blinds your sight . 
The sins of others are ever before you , while you resolutely keep your own behind your back . 
I know that what Gavryl did was wrong , but if he alone should do wrong there would be no evil in the world . 
Do you think that all the evil in the world is the work of one man alone ? No ! it requires two persons to work much evil in the world . 
You see only the bad in Gavryl's character , but you are blind to the evil that is in your own nature . 
If he alone were bad and you good , then there would be no wrong . 
You are behaving very badly yourself , and for that reason you are wrong . 
I did not act in such a manner , and certainly I never taught you to do so . 
I lived in peace with Gavryl's father all the time we were neighbors . 
We were always the best of friends . 
If he was without flour his wife would come to me and say , 'Diadia Frol Grandfather , we need flour . 
I would then say 'My good woman , go to the warehouse and take as much as you want . 
If he had no one to care for his horses I would say , 'Go , Ivanushka diminutive of Ivan , and help him to care for them . 
If I required anything I would go to him and say , 'Grandfather Gordey , I need this or that , and he would always reply , 'Take just whatever you want . 
By this means we passed an easy and peaceful life . 
You should think of the salvation of your soul . 
Is that the way to do it ? You say one unkind word to me and I will reply with two . 
You will give me one slap in the face , and I will retaliate with two slaps . 
No , my son Christ did not teach us foolish people to act in such a way . 
This is the way Christ taught us to live . 
He tells us that if a person smite us on the one cheek we should offer unto him the other . 
That is Christ's command to us , and we should follow it . 
You should therefore subdue your pride . 
Am I not right ? Ivan remained silent , but his father's words had sunk deep into his heart . 
The old man coughed and continued Do you think Christ thought us wicked ? Did he not die that we might be saved ? Now you think only of this earthly life . 
You are therefore at liberty to enjoy life and be happy . 
With the assistance of your children you could reach a high state of prosperity . 
But now your property instead of increasing is gradually growing less , and why ? It is the result of your pride . 
When it becomes necessary for you and your boys to go to the field to work , your enemy instead summons you to appear at court or before some kind of judicial person . 
If you do not plow at the proper time and sow at the proper time mother earth will not yield up her products , and you and your children will be left destitute . 
You have succeeded in getting him sentenced , but in the end the punishment will fall on your own shoulders . 
Oh ! my child , it would be better for you to attend to your work on the farm and train your boys to become good farmers and honest men . 
If any one offend you forgive him for Christ's sake , and then prosperity will smile on your work and a light and happy feeling will fill your heart . 
The old father in a pleading voice continued Take an old man's advice . 
Go and harness your horse , drive back to the court , and withdraw all these complaints against your neighbor . 
To morrow go to him , offer to make peace in Christ's name , and invite him to your house . 
The old man , surmising his uncertainty , said to Ivan Go , Ivanushka do not delay . 
Extinguish the fire in the beginning , before it grows large , for then it may be impossible . 
Ivan's father wished to say more to him , but was prevented by the arrival of the women , who came into the room chattering like so many magpies . 
They had already heard of Gavryl's sentence , and of how he threatened to set fire to Ivan's house . 
They found out all about it , and in telling it to their neighbors added their own versions of the story , with the usual exaggeration . 
Meeting in the pasture ground , they proceeded to quarrel with Gavryl's women . 
Ivan listened calmly to their stories , but his anger was soon aroused once more , when he abandoned his intention of making peace with Gavryl . 
As Ivan was always busy about the household , he did not stop to speak to the wrangling women , but immediately left the room , directing his steps toward the barn . 
Before getting through with his work the sun had set and the boys had returned from their plowing . 
Ivan met them and asked about their work , helping them to put things in order and leaving the broken horse collar aside to be repaired . 
He intended to perform some other duties , but it became too dark and he was obliged to leave them till the next day . 
By this time he had forgotten all about Gavryl and what his father had said to him . 
Yet , just as he touched the door knob , he heard sounds of quarrelling proceeding from his neighbor's house . 
What do I want with that devil ? shouted Gavryl to some one . 
He deserves to be killed ! Ivan stopped and listened for a moment , when he shook his head threateningly and entered the room . 
When he came in , the apartment was already lighted . 
His daughter in law was working with her loom , while the old woman was preparing the supper . 
The other son was sitting by the table reading a book . 
Ivan came in very cross , and , angrily throwing aside a cat which lay sleeping on the bench , cursed the women for having misplaced a pail . 
He looked very sad and serious , and , seating himself in a corner of the room , proceeded to repair the horse collar . 
He could not forget Gavryl , however the threatening words he had used in the court room and those which Ivan had just heard . 
His eldest brother wished to accompany him , but Ivan himself arose and went with him as far as the porch . 
The night was dark and cloudy and a strong wind was blowing , which produced a peculiar whistling sound that was most unpleasant to the ear . 
Ivan helped his son to mount his horse , which , followed by a colt , started off on a gallop . 
Ivan stood for a few moments looking around him and listening to the clatter of the horse's hoofs as Taraska rode down the village street . 
He heard him meet other boys on horseback , who rode quite as well as Taraska , and soon all were lost in the darkness . 
He is so desperate , thought Ivan , that he may set fire to my house regardless of the danger to his own . 
He may burn and steal without being found out , and thus go unpunished . 
I wish I could catch him . 
This thought so worried Ivan that he decided not to return to his house , but went out and stood on the street corner . 
He stepped back quickly and hid himself in the shadow of the building . 
Ivan stood and listened , but all was quiet . 
So dense was the darkness that it was at first impossible for Ivan to see more than a few feet beyond where he stood . 
After a time , however , his sight becoming accustomed to the gloom , he was enabled to see for a considerable distance . 
The plow and his other farming implements stood just where he had placed them . 
He could see also the opposite corner of the house . 
Still , Ivan was not satisfied , and decided to make a further examination of the premises . 
As on the previous occasion , he moved so very cautiously that he could not hear even the sound of his own footsteps . 
He had taken the precaution to remove his shoes , that he might step the more noiselessly . 
When he reached the corner of the barn it again seemed to him that he saw something moving , this time near the plow but it quickly disappeared . 
Ivan said Well , now , he cannot get away , for he will be caught in the very act . 
Ivan had taken a few more steps when suddenly a bright light flamed up , but not in the same spot in which he had seen the figure of the man sitting . 
While Ivan was regaining his feet Gavryl succeeded in reaching his house , but Ivan followed so quickly that he caught up with him before he could enter . 
Just as he was about to grasp him he was struck on the head with some hard substance . 
He had been hit on the temple as with a stone . 
The blow was struck by Gavryl , who had picked up an oaken stave , and with it gave Ivan a terrible blow on the head . 
When he recovered his senses , Gavryl was nowhere to be seen , but all around him was as light as day . 
Strange sounds proceeded from the direction of his house , and turning his face that way he saw that his barns were on fire . 
The rear parts of both were already destroyed , and the flames were leaping toward the front . 
What is this , brother ? Ivan cried out , as he beat his thighs with his hands . 
He next tried to run , but he could not move his feet , and his legs seemed to twist themselves around each other . 
After several attempts he succeeded in taking one or two steps , when he again began to stagger and gasp for breath . 
Dense volumes of smoke began to pour out of the room , which made it difficult to approach . 
A crowd of peasants had by this time gathered , but they found it impossible to save their homes , so they carried everything which they could to a place of safety . 
The cattle they drove into neighboring pastures and left some one to care for them . 
The wind carried the sparks from Ivan's house to Gavryl's , and it , too , took fire and was consumed . 
The wind continued to increase with great fury , and the flames spread to both sides of the street , until in a very short time more than half the village was burned . 
Everything was burned , including the cattle and all the farm implements . 
The women lost their trunks , which were filled with quantities of clothing , the accumulation of years . 
The storehouse and all the provisions perished in the flames , not even the chickens being saved . 
Gavryl , however , more fortunate than Ivan , saved his cattle and a few other things . 
The village was burning all night . 
But when he saw his home fall in a smouldering heap , in spite of the terrible heat he sprang into the midst of it and carried out a charred log . 
Still weak from the terrible blow which Gavryl had given him , he was overcome by the heat , and fell into the midst of the burning mass . 
Fortunately , his eldest son saw him fall , and rushing into the fire succeeded in getting hold of him and carrying him out of it . 
Ivan's hair , beard , and clothing were burned entirely off . 
His hands were also frightfully injured , but he seemed indifferent to pain . 
Grief drove him crazy , the people said . 
The fire was growing less , but Ivan still stood where he could see it , and kept repeating to himself , I should have taken , etc . 
sent his son to Ivan to tell him that the old man , his father , was dying , and wanted to see him to bid him good bye . 
In his grief Ivan had forgotten all about his father , and could not understand what was being said to him . 
In a dazed way he asked What father ? Whom does he want ? The elder's son again repeated his father's message to Ivan . 
Your aged parent is at our house dying , and he wants to see you and bid you good bye . 
Won't you go now , uncle Ivan ? the boy said . 
Finally Ivan understood , and followed the elder's son . 
When Ivan's father was carried from the oven , he was slightly injured by a big bunch of burning straw falling on him just as he reached the street . 
When Ivan arrived at the elder's home he found only the latter's wife and children , who were all seated on the brick oven . 
The old man was lying on a bench holding a lighted candle in his hand . 
Hearing a noise , he turned his face toward the door , and when he saw it was his son he tried to move . 
He placed the bunch of burning straw to the barn in my presence . 
Ivan , said the old man , death is fast approaching me , and remember that you also will have to die . 
Who did this dreadful thing ? Whose is the sin ? Ivan gazed at the noble face of his dying father and was silent . 
His heart was too full for utterance . 
What are you going to do , replied the old man , now that you have no home ? Ivan cried and said I do not know how we shall live now . 
The old man closed his eyes and made a movement with his lips , as if gathering his feeble strength for a final effort . 
Slowly opening his eyes , he whispered Should you live according to God's commands you will be happy and prosperous again . 
Forgive one sin of your neighbor's , and God will forgive two of yours . 
Grasping the candle with both hands , Ivan's father heaved a deep sigh , and , stretching himself out on his back , yielded up the ghost . 
Ivan for once accepted his father's advice . 
He did not betray Gavryl , and no one ever learned the origin of the fire . 
Ivan's heart became more kindly disposed toward his old enemy , feeling that much of the fault in connection with this sad affair rested with himself . 
Gavryl was greatly surprised that Ivan did not denounce him before all the villagers , and at first he stood in much fear of him , but he soon afterward overcame this feeling . 
The two peasants ceased to quarrel , and their families followed their example . 
Ivan remembered his dying father's command , and took deeply to heart the evident warning of God that A FIRE SHOULD BE EXTINGUISHED IN THE BEGINNING . 
If any one wronged him he did not seek revenge , but instead made every effort to settle the matter peaceably . 
If any one spoke to him unkindly , he did not answer in the same way , but replied softly , and tried to persuade the person not to speak evil . 
He taught the women and children of his household to do the same . 
Ivan Scherbakoff was now a reformed man . 
He lived well and peacefully , and again became prosperous . 
Let us , therefore , have peace , live in brotherly love and kindness , and we will be happy . 
POLIKUSHKA OR , The Lot of a Wicked Court Servant . 
CHAPTER I. Polikey was a court man one of the staff of servants belonging to the court household of a boyarinia . 
He held a very insignificant position on the estate , and lived in a rather poor , small house with his wife and children . 
were built of stone , and the interior was ten yards square . 
A Russian stove stood in the centre , around which was a free passage . 
was known as Polikey's corner . 
, and the three legged table , on which the meals were prepared and the family washing was done . 
At the latter also Polikey was at work on the preparation of some materials for use in his profession that of an amateur veterinary surgeon . 
A calf , some hens , the family clothes and household utensils , together with seven persons , filled the little home to the utmost of its capacity . 
It seemed hard to realize how so many persons managed to live in such close quarters . 
Polikey's wife , Akulina , did the washing , spun and wove , bleached her linen , cooked and baked , and found time also to quarrel and gossip with her neighbors . 
The monthly allowance of food which they received from the noblewoman's house was amply sufficient for the whole family , and there was always enough meal left to make mash for the cow . 
Their fuel they got free , and likewise the food for the cattle . 
In addition they were given a small piece of land on which to raise vegetables . 
They had a cow , a calf , and a number of chickens to care for . 
Polikey was employed in the stables to take care of two stallions , and , when necessary , to bleed the horses and cattle and clean their hoofs . 
In his treatment of the animals he used syringes , plasters , and various other remedies and appliances of his own invention . 
This shadow darkened the lives of the entire family . 
Polikey , while young , was employed in a horse breeding establishment in a neighboring village . 
The head stableman was a notorious horse thief , known far and wide as a great rogue , who , for his many misdeeds , was finally exiled to Siberia . 
Under his instruction Polikey underwent a course of training , and , being but a boy , was easily induced to perform many evil deeds . 
His father and mother died when he was but a child , and he had no one to point out to him the paths of virtue . 
In addition to his other numerous shortcomings , Polikey was fond of strong drink . 
He also had a habit of appropriating other people's property , when the opportunity offered of his doing so without being seen . 
Collar straps , padlocks , perch bolts , and things even of greater value belonging to others found their way with remarkable rapidity and in great quantities to Polikey's home . 
He did not , however , keep such things for his own use , but sold them whenever he could find a purchaser . 
His payment consisted chiefly of whiskey , though sometimes he received cash . 
This sort of employment , as his neighbors said , was both light and profitable it required neither education nor labor . 
This impending danger made life a burden for Polikey and his family . 
Such a setback indeed very nearly happened to Polikey early in his career . 
He married while still young , and God gave him much happiness . 
His wife , who was a shepherd's daughter , was a strong , intelligent , hard working woman . 
She bore him many children , each of whom was said to be better than the preceding one . 
Polikey still continued to steal , but once was caught with some small articles belonging to others in his possession . 
Among them was a pair of leather reins , the property of another peasant , who beat him severely and reported him to his mistress . 
From that time on Polikey was an object of suspicion , and he was twice again detected in similar escapades . 
His noble mistress severely reprimanded him his wife wept from grief for his downfall , and everything went from bad to worse . 
This habit he vainly endeavored to overcome . 
It often happened that when he returned home intoxicated , his wife , losing all patience , roundly cursed him and cruelly beat him . 
would elapse when Polikey would again mysteriously disappear from his home and be lost for several days on a spree . 
From what source does he get the money he spends so freely ? the neighbors inquired of each other , as they sadly shook their heads . 
One of his most unfortunate exploits in the matter of stealing was in connection with a clock which belonged to the estate of his mistress . 
The clock stood in the private office of the noblewoman , and was so old as to have outlived its usefulness , and was simply kept as an heirloom . 
He carried it to a town not far from the village , where he very readily found a purchaser . 
An investigation was immediately instituted , and all the details of Polikey's transaction were brought to light and reported to his noble mistress . 
He was called into her presence , and , when confronted with the story of the theft , broke down and confessed all . 
He fell on his knees before the noblewoman and plead with her for mercy . 
The kind hearted lady lectured him about God , the salvation of his soul , and his future life . 
She talked to him also about the misery and disgrace he brought upon his family , and altogether so worked upon his feelings that he cried like a child . 
In conclusion his kind mistress said I will forgive you this time on the condition that you promise faithfully to reform , and never again to take what does not belong to you . 
From that time on he was not again caught stealing , but his life became extremely sad , for he was regarded with suspicion by every one and pointed to as a thief . 
When the time came round for securing recruits for the army , all the peasants singled out Polikey as the first to be taken . 
The superintendent was especially anxious to get rid of him , and went to his mistress to induce her to have him sent away . 
The kind hearted and merciful woman , remembering the peasant's repentance , refused to grant the superintendent's request , and told him he must take some other man in his stead . 
Our lady has sent me to tell you to come up to the court immediately . 
As soon as Aksiutka had delivered her message she left the room in the same abrupt manner in which she had entered . 
Akulina , without saying a word , got up and brought her husband's boots to him . 
They were poor , worn out things which some soldier had given him , and his wife did not glance at him as she handed them to him . 
Are you going to change your shirt , Illitch ? she asked , at last . 
Akulina did not once look at him all the time he was putting on his boots and preparing to go to the court . 
Perhaps , after all , it was better that she did not do so . 
His face was very pale and his lips trembled . 
Polikey's next door neighbors were a joiner and his wife . 
A thin partition only separated the two families , and each could hear what the other said and did . 
She looked upon such a circumstance as a bad omen . 
She continued talking to herself and said Perhaps she wants to send him to the town to make some purchases for her household . 
I did not suppose she would select such a faithful man as you are to perform such a service for her . 
If it should prove that she DOES want to send you to the next town , just buy me a quarter pound of tea . 
This thought greatly distressed her , and burying her face in her hands she seated herself on the bed , where several of her progeny were fast asleep . 
Presently a little voice interrupted her meditations by crying out , Mamushka little mother , you are crushing me , and the child pulled her nightdress from under her mother's arms . 
Akulina , with her head still resting on her hands , said Perhaps it would be better if we all should die . 
I only seem to have brought you into the world to suffer sorrow and misery . 
About half an hour had passed when the youngest child began to cry and Akulina arose to feed it . 
She had by this time ceased to weep , and after feeding the infant she again fell into her old position , with her face buried in her hands . 
She was very pale , but this only increased her beauty . 
Presently she heard steps outside , and knew that her husband was returning . 
She hurriedly wiped away the last traces of her tears as she arose to let him pass into the centre of the room . 
Polikey made his appearance with a look of triumph on his face , threw his hat on the bed , and hastily removed his coat but not a word did he utter . 
What kind of business ? Akulina timidly inquired . 
But Polikey was in no hurry to answer her question . 
He lighted his pipe with a very imposing air , and spit several times on the floor before he replied . 
Still retaining his pompous manner , he said , She has ordered me to go to a certain merchant in the town and collect a considerable sum of money . 
You to collect money ? questioned Akulina . 
Polikey related all this in a loud voice , so that his neighbor might hear what he had to say . 
'You promised me to reform , my noble mistress said to me , 'and I will be the first to show you how much faith I have in your promise . 
I want you to ride into town , and , going to the principal merchant there , collect a sum of money from him and bring it to me . 
I said to my mistress 'Everything you order shall be done . 
I will only too gladly obey your slightest wish . 
I have been accused of every kind of evil deed that it is possible to charge a man with , but I have never done anything seriously wrong against you , your honor . 
And how much money are you to collect ? inquired Akulina . 
Fifteen hundred rubles , carelessly answered Polikey . 
Akulina sadly shook her head as she asked , When are you to start ? She ordered me to leave here to morrow , Polikey replied . 
'Take any horse you please , she said . 
'Come to the office , and I will see you there and wish you God speed on your journey . 
Glory to Thee , O Lord ! said Akulina , as she arose and made the sign of the cross . 
Illitch , she cried at last , excitedly , for God's sake promise me that you will not touch a drop of vodki . 
So Polikey and his wife went to sleep in a happy frame of mind and full of bright dreams for the future . 
the reins in ore hand , while with the other she endeavored to keep her green and yellow overcoat wound around her body , and also to hold Polikey's sheepskin coat . 
In the house there were the greatest noise and confusion . 
Akulina ceased from her cooking for a while and helped to get Polikey ready for the journey . 
Polikey's shirt was all ready , nice and clean , but his shoes badly needed repairing , and this fact caused his devoted wife much anxiety . 
She took from her own feet the thick woollen stockings she was wearing , and gave them to Polikey . 
She then began to repair his shoes , patching up the holes so as to protect his feet from dampness . 
He was anxious to look as clean as possible , and he declared his sash looked like a dirty rope . 
One of his daughters , enveloped in a sheepskin coat , was sent to a neighbor's house to borrow a hat . 
Within Polikey's home the greatest confusion reigned , for the court servants were constantly arriving with innumerable small orders which they wished Polikey to execute for them in town . 
Neighbor Nikita refused the loan of the hat , so the old one had to be patched up for the occasion . 
This occupied some time , as there were many holes in it . 
Finally Polikey was all ready , and jumping on the wagon started on his journey , after first making the sign of the cross . 
Polikey stopped the horse on hearing the children , and Akulina placed them in the wagon , together with two others belonging to a neighbor all anxious to have a short ride . 
As Akulina helped the little ones into the wagon she took occasion to remind Polikey of the solemn promise he had made her not to touch a drop of vodki during the journey . 
Polikey drove the children as far as the blacksmith's place , where he let them out of the wagon , telling them they must return home . 
He then arranged his clothing , and , setting his hat firmly on his head , started his horse on a trot . 
The weather was very cold , a sharp cutting wind blowing continuously but this did not disturb Polikey , whose mind was engrossed with pleasant thoughts . 
I am also riding in the same wagon that the superintendent himself uses when he is riding as a representative of the court . 
I have the same harness , leather horse collar , reins , and all the other gear . 
If I wished to I might run away to Odessa instead of taking the money to my mistress . 
But no I will not do that . 
I will surely carry the money straight to the one who has been kind enough to trust me . 
Striking the animal a sharp blow with the whip , he passed by the tavern . 
The performance was repeated when he reached the next kabak , which looked very inviting but he resolutely set his face against entering , and passed on . 
About noon he arrived at his destination , and getting down from the wagon approached the gate of the merchant's house where the servants of the court always stopped . 
Opening it he led the mare through , and fed her . 
Dinner over , he carried a letter to the merchant which the noblewoman had given him to deliver . 
Polikey tried to appear offended at this question , but did not succeed , and he only smiled . 
The merchant , after reading the letter a second time and being convinced that all was right , gave Polikey the money , which he put in his bosom for safe keeping . 
On his way to the house he did not once stop at any of the shops he passed . 
I have money enough to buy up everything , he said but I will not do so . 
The numerous commissions which he had received compelled him to go to the bazaar . 
There he bought only what had been ordered , but he could not resist the temptation to ask the price of a very handsome sheep skin coat which attracted his attention . 
The merchant to whom he spoke looked at Polikey and smiled , not believing that he had sufficient money to purchase such an expensive coat . 
But Polikey , pointing to his breast , said that he could buy out the whole shop if he wished to . 
He thereupon ordered the shop keeper to take his measure . 
He tried the coat on and looked himself over carefully , testing the quality and blowing upon the hair to see that none of it came out . 
Finally , heaving a deep sigh , he took it off . 
The price is too high , he said . 
If you could let me have it for fifteen rubles But the merchant cut him short by snatching the coat from him and throwing it angrily to one side . 
Polikey left the bazaar and returned to the merchant's house in high spirits . 
After supper he went out and fed the mare , and prepared everything for the night . 
Returning to the house he got up on the stove to rest , and while there he took out the envelope which contained the money and looked long and earnestly at it . 
He could not read , but asked one of those present to tell him what the writing on the envelope meant . 
It was simply the address and the announcement that it contained fifteen hundred rubles . 
The envelope was made of common paper and was sealed with dark brown sealing wax . 
There was one large seal in the centre and four smaller ones at the corners . 
Polikey continued to examine it carefully , even inserting his finger till he touched the crisp notes . 
He appeared to take a childish delight in having so much money in his possession . 
Many times on the way Polikey took off his hat to see that the money was safe . 
Once he said to himself , I think that perhaps it would be better if I should put it in my bosom . 
Akulina had carefully sewed all the holes in the hat , but it burst out in other places owing to Polikey's removing it so often . 
By this action he forced the envelope still further through the plush , and as he rode along his head bobbed up and down . 
Polikey did not awake till he arrived near his own house , and his first act was to put his hand to his head to learn if his hat was all right . 
Finding that it was in its place , he did not think it necessary to examine it and see that the money was safe . 
Touching the mare gently with the whip she started into a trot , and as he rode along he arranged in his own mind how much he was to receive . 
With the air of a man already holding a high position at the court , he looked around him with an expression of lofty scorn on his face . 
As he neared his house he could see before him the one room which constituted their humble home , and the joiner's wife next door carry ing her rolls of linen . 
He saw also the office of the court and his mistress's house , where he hoped he would be able presently to prove that he was an honest , trustworthy man . 
When near the house Polikey began to arrange his clothes , smoothing down his fur collar , re tying his sash , and stroking his hair . 
To do the latter he had to take off his hat , and when doing so felt in the lining for the envelope . 
Quicker and quicker he ran his hand around the lining , and not finding the money used both hands , first one and then the other . 
But the envelope was not to be found . 
Polikey was by this time greatly distressed , and his face was white with fear as he passed his hand through the crown of his old hat . 
Polikey stopped the mare and began a diligent search through the wagon and its contents . 
The whole day passed without any one in the village of Pokrovski having seen anything of Polikey . 
His poor wife felt a heavy load upon her heart , and was scarcely able to do her housework and put everything in order for the next day . 
The children also anxiously awaited their father's appearance , and , though for different reasons , could hardly restrain their impatience . 
The noblewoman and Akulina were concerned only in regard to Polikey himself , while the children were interested most in what he would bring them from the town . 
One of them had seen him also walking by the side of his tired out horse . 
I thought , said he , that the man was drunk , and had not fed his horse for two days the animal looked so exhausted . 
Unable to sleep , and with her heart palpitating at every sound , Akulina lay awake all night vainly awaiting Polikey's return . 
When the cock crowed the third time she was obliged to get up to attend to the fire . 
Day was just dawning and the church bells had begun to ring . 
Soon all the children were also up , but there was still no tidings of the missing husband and father . 
In the morning the chill blasts of winter entered their humble home , and on looking out they saw that the houses , fields , and roads were thickly covered with snow . 
The day was clear and cold , as if befitting the holy day they were about to celebrate . 
They were able to see a long distance from the house , but no one was in sight . 
Akulina noticed that he was very pale and that his face bore an expression of suffering as if he would like to have cried but could not do so . 
What ! she cried out , have you been to see our mistress ? Polikey still sat on the bed in his corner , glaring wildly about him , and smiling bitterly . 
Two things in the room seemed to engross the most of his attention the baby in the cradle , and the rope which was attached to the ladder . 
Approaching the cradle , he began with his thin fingers quickly to untie the knot in the rope by which the two were connected . 
After untying it he stood for a few moments looking silently at the baby . 
Akulina did not notice this proceeding , and with her cakes on the board went to place them in a corner . 
Polikey quickly hid the rope beneath his coat , and again seated himself on the bed . 
What is it that troubles you , Illitch ? inquired Akulina . 
I have not slept , he answered . 
This moment ! he cried . 
What more is wanted ? He spoke the last sentence so softly that Akulina became quieted in her mind , thinking that perhaps their mistress intended to reward her husband . 
Say that I will come immediately , he said . 
But Polikey failed to follow the girl , and went instead to another place . 
From the porch of his house there was a ladder reaching to the attic . 
Arriving at the foot of the ladder Polikey looked around him , and seeing no one about , he quickly ascended to the garret . 
Meanwhile the girl had reached her mistress's house . 
What does it mean that Polikey does not come ? said the noblewoman impatiently . 
Where can he be ? Why does he not come at once ? Aksiutka flew again to his house and demanded to see Polikey . 
About this time the joiner's wife , with hair unkempt and clothes bedraggled , went up to the loft to gather the linen which she had previously put there to dry . 
Suddenly a cry of horror was heard , and the woman , with her eyes closed , and crazed by fear , ran down the ladder like a cat . 
Illitch , she cried , has hanged himself ! Poor Akulina ran up the ladder before any of the people , who had gathered from the surrounding houses , could prevent her . 
With a loud shriek she fell back as if dead , and would surely have been killed had not one of the spectators succeeded in catching her in his arms . 
Ye have heard that it hath been said , an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth but I say unto you , That ye resist not evil . 
It was in the time of serfdom many years before Alexander II . 
's liberation of the sixty million serfs in . 
In those days the people were ruled by different kinds of lords . 
It was this latter class who made life literally a burden to those who were unfortunate enough to come under their rule . 
Many of them had arisen from the ranks of the peasantry to become superintendents of noblemen's estates . 
The peasants were obliged to work for their master a certain number of days each week . 
There was plenty of land and water and the soil was rich and fertile , while the meadows and forests were sufficient to supply the needs of both the peasants and their lord . 
There was a certain nobleman who had chosen a superintendent from the peasantry on one of his other estates . 
Michael Simeonovitch began his persecutions by compelling the peasants to perform more days of service on the estate every week than the laws obliged them to work . 
He established a brick yard , in which he forced the men and women to do excessive labor , selling the bricks for his own profit . 
On one occasion the overworked serfs sent a delegation to Moscow to complain of their treatment to their lord , but they obtained no satisfaction . 
When the superintendent passed through the village the people would run and hide themselves as from a wild beast . 
They would hold little meetings in secret places to bewail their misery and to confer with one another as to which would be the best way to act . 
It is surely not a sin to kill such a devil in human form . 
It happened once , before the Easter holidays , that one of these meetings was held in the woods , where Michael had sent the serfs to make a clearance for their master . 
At noon they assembled to eat their dinner and to hold a consultation . 
Why can't we leave now ? said one . 
Very soon we shall be reduced to nothing . 
Already we are almost worked to death there being no rest , night or day , either for us or our poor women . 
Only recently Anisim was tortured in irons till he died . 
We certainly cannot stand this much longer . 
Yes , said another , what is the use of waiting ? Let us act at once . 
Michael will be here this evening , and will be certain to abuse us shamefully . 
Let us , then , thrust him from his horse and with one blow of an axe give him what he deserves , and thus end our misery . 
We can then dig a big hole and bury him like a dog , and no one will know what became of him . 
Now let us come to an agreement to stand together as one man and not to betray one another . 
The last speaker was Vasili Minayeff , who , if possible , had more cause to complain of Michael's cruelty than any of his fellow serfs . 
The superintendent was in the habit of flogging him severely every week , and he took also Vasili's wife to serve him as cook . 
Accordingly , during the evening that followed this meeting in the woods Michael arrived on the scene on horseback . 
He began at once to find fault with the manner in which the work had been done , and to complain because some lime trees had been cut down . 
I told you not to cut down any lime trees ! shouted the enraged superintendent . 
Michael also severely punished Vasili , because he had not done sufficient work , after which the master rode safely home . 
Once a lot of sparrows conspired against a hawk , but no sooner did the bird of prey appear than they sneaked off in the grass . 
Selecting one of the choicest sparrows , the hawk took it away to eat , after which the others came out crying , 'Twee twee ! and found that one was missing . 
'Who is killed ? they asked . 
'Vanka ! Well , he deserved it . 
You , my friends , are acting in just the same manner . 
When Michael attacked Sidor you should have stood by your promise . 
If he has really forgotten God , they said , and shall continue to commit such crimes against us , it is truly necessary that we should kill him . 
If not , let us perish , for it can make no difference to us now . 
This despairing programme , however , met with considerable opposition from a peaceably inclined man named Peter Mikhayeff . 
Brethren , said he , you are contemplating a grievous sin . 
The taking of human life is a very serious matter . 
But , my friends , we must have patience . 
This pacific utterance only served to intensify the anger of Vasili . 
Said he Peter is forever repeating the same old story , 'It is a sin to kill any one . 
Certainly it is sinful to murder but we should consider the kind of man we are dealing with . 
We all know it is wrong to kill a good man , but even God would take away the life of such a dog as he is . 
It is our duty , if we have any love for mankind , to shoot a dog that is mad . 
It is a sin to let him live . 
If , therefore , we are to suffer at all , let it be in the interests of the people and they will thank us for it . 
If we remain quiet any longer a flogging will be our only reward . 
You are talking nonsense , Mikhayeff . 
But I shall not be going of my own free will , and God will know whose sin it is , and shall punish the offender accordingly . 
Yet we must not forget him . 
Brethren , I am not giving you my own views only . 
The law of God is not to return evil for evil indeed , if you try in this way to stamp out wickedness it will come upon you all the stronger . 
It is not difficult for you to kill the man , but his blood will surely stain your own soul . 
If you yield to misfortune it will surely come to you . 
As Peter was not without sympathizers among the peasants , the poor serfs were consequently divided into two groups the followers of Vasili and those who held the views of Mikhayeff . 
On Easter Sunday no work was done . 
Thus the official went through the village and directed the men to prepare for work the next day some by the river and others by the roadway . 
The poor people were almost overcome with grief , many of them shedding tears , but none dared to disobey the orders of their master . 
Michael arose rather late and took a walk about the farm . 
had been to church and returned . 
A steaming samovar awaited them , and they began to drink tea with Michael , who , after lighting his pipe , called the elder to him . 
Well , said the superintendent , have you ordered the moujiks to plough to day ? Yes , sir , I did , was the reply . 
Have they all gone to the field ? Yes , sir all of them . 
I directed them myself where to begin . 
That is all very well . 
You gave the orders , but are they ploughing ? Go at once and see , and you may tell them that I shall be there after dinner . 
I shall expect to find one and a half acres done for every two ploughs , and the work must be well done otherwise they shall be severely punished , notwithstanding the holiday . 
I hear , sir , and obey . 
The elder started to go , but Michael called him back . 
After hesitating for some time , as if he felt very uneasy , he said By the way , listen to what those scoundrels say about me . 
Doubtless some of them will curse me , and I want you to report the exact words . 
I know what villains they are . 
They don't find work at all pleasant . 
They would rather lie down all day and do nothing . 
They would like to eat and drink and make merry on holidays , but they forget that if the ploughing is not done it will soon be too late . 
So you go and listen to what is said , and tell it to me in detail . 
I hear , sir , and obey . 
Turning his back and mounting his horse , the elder was soon at the field where the serfs were hard at work . 
It happened that Michael's wife , a very good hearted woman , overheard the conversation which her husband had just been holding with the elder . 
Approaching him , she said My good friend , Mishinka diminutive of Michael , I beg of you to consider the importance and solemnity of this holy day . 
Do not sin , for Christ's sake . 
Let the poor moujiks go home . 
Michael laughed , but made no reply to his wife's humane request . 
Finally he said to her You've not been whipped for a very long time , and now you have become bold enough to interfere in affairs that are not your own . 
Mishinka , she persisted , I have had a frightful dream concerning you . 
You had better let the moujiks go . 
Yes , said he I perceive that you have gained so much flesh of late that you think you would not feel the whip . 
Lookout ! Rudely thrusting his hot pipe against her cheek , Michael chased his wife from the room , after which he ordered his dinner . 
Well , asked Michael , did they plough ? Yes , replied the elder they have accomplished about half the field . 
Is there no fault to be found ? Not that I could discover . 
The work seems to be well done . 
They are evidently afraid of you . 
How is the soil ? Very good . 
It appears to be quite soft . 
Tell me all , said he I want to know their exact words . 
If you tell me the truth I shall reward you but if you conceal anything from me you will be punished . 
I shall tell him the truth . 
Then turning suddenly to the superintendent he said They complain , Michael Simeonovitch ! They complain bitterly . 
But what did they say ? demanded Michael . 
Tell me ! Well , one thing they said was , 'He does not believe in God . 
Who said that ? he asked . 
It seemed to be their unanimous opinion . 
'He has been overcome by the Evil One , they said . 
Very good , laughed the superintendent but tell me what each of them said . 
But what did he say ? It is awful to repeat it , sir . 
Vasili said , 'He shall die like a dog , having no chance to repent ! Oh , the villain ! exclaimed Michael . 
He would kill me if he were not afraid . 
All right , Vasili we shall have an accounting with you . 
Mean or not you must tell me , I say ! Some of them declared that your back should be broken . 
Simeonovitch appeared to enjoy this immensely , for he laughed outright . 
We shall see whose back will be the first to be broken , said he . 
Was that Tishka's opinion ? While I did not suppose they would say anything good about me , I did not expect such curses and threats . 
And Peter Mikhayeff was that fool cursing me too ? No he did not curse you at all . 
He appeared to be the only silent one among them . 
Mikhayeff is a very wise moujik , and he surprises me very much . 
At his actions all the other peasants seemed amazed . 
What did he do ? He did something remarkable . 
He was diligently ploughing , and as I approached him I heard some one singing very sweetly . 
Looking between the ploughshares , I observed a bright object shining . 
Well , what was it ? Hurry up ! It was a small , five kopeck wax candle , burning brightly , and the wind was unable to blow it out . 
Peter , wearing a new shirt , sang beautiful hymns as he ploughed , and no matter how he handled the implement the candle continued to burn . 
In my presence he fixed the plough , shaking it violently , but the bright little object between the colters remained undisturbed . 
I did not say anything to him , but , on approaching the other moujiks , I found that they were laughing and making sport of their silent companion . 
'It is a great sin to plough on Easter Monday , they said . 
'You could not get absolution from your sin if you were to pray all your life . 
Simeonovitch had now ceased to ridicule , and , putting aside his guitar , his head dropped on his breast and he became lost in thought . 
Presently he ordered the elder and cook to depart , after which Michael went behind a screen and threw himself upon the bed . 
He was sighing and moaning , as if in great distress , when his wife came in and spoke kindly to him . 
Let them go home , and everything will be all right . 
Heretofore you have run far greater risks without any fear , but now you appear to be very much alarmed . 
He has conquered me ! he repeated . 
I am lost ! What do you mean ? demanded his wife , angrily . 
If you will go and do as I tell you there will be no danger . 
Come , Mishinka , she added , tenderly I shall have the saddle horse brought for you at once . 
When the horse arrived the woman persuaded her husband to mount the animal , and to fulfil her request concerning the serfs . 
At length Michael reached the other gate , which he found closed also , and , being unable to open it himself while seated on his horse , he called loudly for assistance . 
The superintendent fell across the fence and a very sharp picket pierced his stomach , when Michael fell unconscious to the ground . 
Toward the evening , when the serfs arrived at the village gate , their horses refused to enter . 
On looking around , the peasants discovered the dead body of their superintendent lying face downward in a pool of blood , where he had fallen from the fence . 
Peter Mikhayeff alone had sufficient courage to dismount and approach the prostrate form , his companions riding around the village and entering by way of the back yards . 
Peter closed the dead man's eyes , after which he put the body in a wagon and took it home . 
And thus the peasants clearly understood that the power of God is manifested not in evil , but in goodness . 
