LADDIE A TRUE BLUE STORY To LEANDER ELLIOT STRATTON The Way to Be Happy Is to Be Good Contents CHAPTER I. Little Sister II . 
The Last Day in Eden V. The First Day of School VI . 
When Sally Married Peter VIII . 
The Shropshire and the Crusader IX . 
Even So X. Laddie Takes the Plunge XI . 
Keeping Christmas Our Way XII . 
The Horn of the Hunter XIII . 
The Garden of the Lord XIV . 
The Crest of Eastbrooke XV . 
Laddie , the Princess , and the Pie XVI . 
The Pryor Mystery LADDIE CHARACTERS LADDIE , Who Loved and Asked No Questions . 
THE PRINCESS , From the House of Mystery . 
LEON , Our Angel Child . 
LITTLE SISTER , Who Tells What Happened . 
STANTON , Who Faced Life Shoulder to Shoulder . 
SALLY and PETER , Who Married Each Other . 
ELIZABETH , SHELLEY , MAY and Other Stanton Children . 
PRYOR , Father and Mother of the Princess . 
ROBERT PAGET , a Chicago Lawyer . 
FRESHETT , Who Offered Her Life for Her Friend . 
MISS AMELIA , the School Mistress . 
Interested Relatives , Friends , and Neighbours . 
CHAPTER I Little Sister And could another child world be my share , I'd be a Little Sister there . 
Have I got a Little Sister anywhere in this house ? inquired Laddie at the door , in his most coaxing voice . 
Yes sir , I answered , dropping the trousers I was making for Hezekiah , my pet bluejay , and running as fast as I could . 
There was no telling what minute May might take it into her head that she was a little sister and reach him first . 
Maybe he wanted me to do something for him , and I loved to wait on Laddie . 
Ask mother if you may go with me a while . 
Mother doesn't care where I am , if I come when the supper bell rings . 
All right ! said Laddie . 
He led the way around the house , sat on the front step and took me between his knees . 
Oh , is it going to be a secret ? I cried . 
Secrets with Laddie were the greatest joy in life . 
He was so big and so handsome . 
Sometimes I disobeyed father and mother I minded Laddie like his right hand . 
The biggest secret yet , he said gravely . 
Tell quick ! I begged , holding my ear to his lips . 
Not so fast ! said Laddie . 
Not so fast ! I have doubts about this . 
I don't know that I should send you . 
Possibly you can't find the way . 
Above all , there is never to be a whisper . 
Not to any one ! Do you understand ? What's the matter ? I asked . 
Something serious , said Laddie . 
You see , I expected to have an hour or two for myself this afternoon , so I made an engagement to spend the time with a Fairy Princess in our Big Woods . 
Father and I broke the reaper taking it from the shed just now and you know how he is about Fairies . 
I did know how he was about Fairies . 
He hadn't a particle of patience with them . 
A Princess would be the Queen's daughter . 
My father's people were English , and I had heard enough talk to understand that . 
I was almost wild with excitement . 
Tell me the secret , hurry ! I cried . 
It's just this , he said . 
It took me a long time to coax the Princess into our Big Woods . 
I had to fix a throne for her to sit on spread a Magic Carpet for her feet , and build a wall to screen her . 
Now , what is she going to think if I'm not there to welcome her when she comes ? She promised to show me how to make sunshine on dark days . 
Tell father and he can have Leon help him . 
But it is a secret with the Princess , and it's HERS as much as mine . 
If I tell , she may not like it , and then she won't make me her Prince and send me on her errands . 
Then you don't dare tell a breath , I said . 
Passing Gypsies sometimes laid down the fence and went there to camp . 
And that wasn't the beginning of it . 
Paddy Ryan had come back from the war wrong in his head . 
He wore his old army overcoat summer and winter , slept on the ground , and ate whatever he could find . 
Once Laddie and Leon , hunting squirrels to make broth for mother on one of her bad days , saw him in our Big Woods and he was eating SNAKES . 
Laddie was slipping the letter into my apron pocket . 
My knees threatened to let me down . 
Must I lift the leaves and hunt for her , or will she come to me ? I wavered . 
That's the biggest secret of all , said Laddie . 
Since the Princess entered them , our woods are Enchanted , and there is no telling what wonderful things may happen any minute . 
What is she like , Laddie ? I questioned , so filled with awe and interest , that fear was forgotten . 
She is taller than Sally , said Laddie . 
Her face is oval , and her cheeks are bright . 
Her eyes are big moonlit pools of darkness , and silken curls fall over her shoulders . 
One hair is strong enough for a lifeline that will draw a drowning man ashore , or strangle an unhappy one . 
But you will not see her . 
I'm purposely sending you early , so you can do what you are told and come back to me before she even reaches the woods . 
Go out our lane to the Big Woods , climb the gate and walk straight back the wagon road to the water . 
When you reach that , you must turn to your right and go toward Hoods' until you come to the pawpaw thicket . 
Go around that , look ahead , and you'll see the biggest beech tree you ever saw . 
You know a beech , don't you ? Of course I do , I said indignantly . 
Father taught me beech with the other trees . 
Among the beech roots there is a stone hidden with moss . 
Roll the stone back and there will be a piece of bark . 
Lift that , lay the letter in the box you'll find , and scamper to me like flying . 
I'll be at the barn with father . 
Is that all ? Not quite , said Laddie . 
If there is one , put it in your pocket , hold it close every step of the way , and you'll be safe coming home as you were going . 
But you mustn't let a soul see it you must slip it into my pocket when I'm not looking . 
If you let any one see , then the Magic will be spoiled , and the Fairy won't come again . 
No one shall see , I promised . 
I knew you could be trusted , said Laddie , kissing and hugging me hard . 
Now go ! If anything gets after you that such a big girl as you really wouldn't be ashamed to be afraid of , climb on a fence and call . 
I'll be listening , and I'll come flying . 
Father will think it's going to take me the remainder of the day to find the bolts he wants . 
We went down the front walk between the rows of hollyhocks and tasselled lady slippers , out the gate , and followed the road . 
Laddie held one of my hands tight , and in the other I gripped the letter in my pocket . 
So long as Laddie could see me , and the lane lay between open fields , I wasn't afraid . 
I was thinking so deeply about our woods being Enchanted , and a tiny Fairy growing big as our Sally , because she was in them , that I stepped out bravely . 
Every few days I followed the lane as far back as the Big Gate . 
This stood where four fields cornered , and opened into the road leading to the woods . 
Or I had ridden on the wagon with Laddie and Leon when they went to bring wood for the cookstove , outoven , and big fireplace . 
I played in them without a thought of fear . 
But our Big Woods ! Leon said the wildcats would get me there . 
I sat in our catalpa and watched the Gypsies drive past every summer . 
But you could excuse her for that . 
She had already bathed , spanked , sewed for , and reared eleven babies so big and strong not one of them ever even threatened to die . 
When you thought of that , you could see she wouldn't be likely to implore the Almighty to send her another , just to make her family even numbers . 
I never felt much hurt at her , but some of the others I never have forgiven and maybe I never will . 
That was the reason I loved him so and tried to do every single thing he wanted me to , just the way he liked it done . 
That was why I was facing the only spot on our land where I was in the slightest afraid because he asked me to . 
If he had told me to dance a jig on the ridgepole of our barn , I would have tried it . 
So I clasped the note , set my teeth , and climbed over the gate . 
I walked fast and kept my eyes straight before me . 
Besides , if I didn't look in the fence corners that I passed , maybe I wouldn't see anything to scare me . 
The bed was full of weeds and as I passed through , away ! went Something among them . 
Beside the camp shed there was corded wood , and the first thing I knew , I was on top of it . 
The next , my hand was on the note in my pocket . 
My heart jumped until I could see my apron move , and my throat went all stiff and dry . 
I gripped the note and waited . 
Father believed God would take care of him . 
I was only a little girl and needed help much more than a man maybe God would take care of me . 
There was nothing wrong in carrying a letter to the Fairy Princess . 
I thought perhaps it would help if I should kneel on the top of the woodpile and ask God to not let anything get me . 
On the whole , I thought it would be more honest to leave God out of it , and take the risk myself . 
That made me think of the Crusaders , and the little gold trinket in father's chest till . 
There were four shells on it and each one stood for a trip on foot or horseback to the Holy City when you had to fight almost every step of the way . 
He said any one with Crusader blood had to be brave as Richard the Lion hearted . 
Beyond our land lay the farm of Jacob Hood , and Mrs. Hood always teased me because Laddie had gone racing after her when I was born . 
She was in the middle of Monday's washing , and the bluing settled in the rinse water and stained her white clothes in streaks it took months to bleach out . 
I always liked Sarah Hood for coming and dressing me , though , because our Sally , who was big enough to have done it , was upstairs crying and wouldn't come down . 
I liked Laddie too , because he was the only one of our family who went to my mother and kissed her , said he was glad , and offered to help her . 
Maybe the reason he went was because he had an awful scare , but anyway he WENT , and that was enough for me . 
You see it was this way no one wanted me as there had been eleven of us , every one felt that was enough . 
May was six years old and in school , and my mother thought there never would be any more babies . 
You can't blame my mother so much . 
She must have been tired of babies and disliked to go back and begin all over after resting six years . 
And you mustn't be too hard on my father if he was not just overjoyed . 
He felt sure the cook would leave , and she did . 
They intended to leave her there until I was over the colic , at least . 
They knew the big married brothers and sisters would object , and they did . 
They said it would be embarrassing for their children to be the nieces and nephews of an aunt or uncle younger than themselves . 
They said it so often and so emphatically that father was provoked and mother cried . 
There never was a baby born who was any less wanted than I was . 
Because of that I was on the cordwood trying to find courage to go farther . 
Over and over Laddie had told me himself . 
He had been to visit our big sister Elizabeth over Sunday and about eight o'clock Monday morning he came riding down the road , and saw the most dreadful thing . 
There was not a curl of smoke from the chimneys , not a tablecloth or pillowslip on the line , not a blind raised . 
Laddie said his heart went just like mine did when the Something jumped in the creek bed , no doubt . 
Then he laid on the whip and rode . 
He flung the rein over the hitching post , leaped the fence and reached the back door . 
The young green girl , who was all father could get when the cook left , was crying . 
So were Shelley and little May , although she said afterward she had a boil on her heel and there was no one to poultice it . 
Laddie leaned against the door casing , and it is easy enough to understand what he thought . 
Great Day ! cried Laddie . 
He said I was the only living creature in that house who was not shedding tears , and I didn't begin for about six months afterward . 
In fact , not until Shelley taught me by pinching me if she had to rock the cradle then I would cry so hard mother would have to take me . 
He said he didn't believe I'd ever have learned by myself . 
He took a pillow from the bed , fixed it in the rocking chair and laid me on it . 
When he found that father was hitching the horses to send Leon for Doctor Fenner , Laddie rode back after Sarah Hood and spoiled her washing . 
I don't care about the reason . 
He took me to the fields with him in the morning and brought me back on the horse before him at noon . 
He could plow with me riding the horse , drive a reaper with me on his knees , and hoe corn while I slept on his coat in a fence corner . 
The winters he was away at college left me lonely , and when he came back for a vacation I was too happy for words . 
Maybe it was wrong to love him most . 
I knew my mother cared for and wanted me now . 
And all my secrets were not with Laddie . 
I had one with father that I was never to tell so long as he lived , but it was about the one he loved best , next after mother . 
Perhaps I should never tell it , but I wouldn't be surprised if the family knew . 
I followed Laddie like a faithful dog , when I was not gripping his waving hair and riding in triumph on his shoulders . 
He never had to go so fast he couldn't take me on his back . 
He never was in too big a hurry to be kind . 
He always had patience to explain every shell , leaf , bird , and flower I asked about . 
I was just as much his when pretty young girls were around , and the house full of company , as when we were alone . 
That was the reason I was shivering on the cordwood , gripping his letter and thinking of all these things in order to force myself to go farther . 
I was excited about the Fairies too . 
I often had close chances of seeing them , but I always just missed . 
Now here was Laddie writing letters and expecting answers our Big Woods Enchanted , a Magic Carpet and the Queen's daughter becoming our size so she could speak with him . 
Or maybe her voice was so fine he could not hear what she said . 
I had to get down some time I might as well start . 
I gripped the letter , slid to the ground , and ran toward the big gate straight before me . 
I climbed it , clutched the note again , and ran blindly down the road through the forest toward the creek . 
On either side of it I could not have run ten steps at a time . 
The big trees reached so high above me it seemed as if they would push through the floor of Heaven . 
I tried to shut my ears and run so fast I couldn't hear a sound , and so going , I soon came to the creek bank . 
There I turned to my right and went slower , watching for the pawpaw thicket . 
It led straight to the thicket . 
At the edge I stopped to look for the beech . 
It could be reached in one breathless dash , but there seemed to be a green enclosure , so I walked around until I found an entrance . 
Once there I was so amazed I stood and stared . 
I was half indignant too . 
Laddie hadn't done a thing but make an exact copy of my playhouse under the biggest maiden's blush in our orchard . 
He used the immense beech for one corner , where I had the apple tree . 
They were so fresh and green , no doubt they had taken root and were growing . 
Where I had a low bench under my tree , he had used a log but he had hewed the top flat , and made a moss cover . 
In each corner he had set a fern as high as my head . 
It was so beautiful it took my breath away . 
It was wonderful how the sound of my own voice gave me courage , even if it did seem a little strange . 
So I hurried to the beech , knelt and slipped the letter in the box , and put back the bark and stone . 
Laddie had said that nothing could hurt me while I had the letter , so my protection was gone as soon as it left my hands . 
There was nothing but my feet to save me now . 
I thanked goodness I was a fine runner , and started for the pawpaw thicket . 
Once there , I paused only one minute to see whether the way to the stream was clear , and while standing tense and gazing , I heard something . 
For an instant it was every bit as bad as at the dry creek . 
Then I realized that this was a soft voice singing , and I forgot everything else in a glow of delight . 
The Princess was coming ! Never in all my life was I so surprised , and astonished , and bewildered . 
She was just as Laddie said she would be she was so much more beautiful than you would suppose any woman could be , I stood there dumbly staring . 
She was not any more of a Princess . 
She had ridden over the roads , and been at our meeting house . 
There could be no mistake . 
And neither father nor mother would want her on our place . 
They didn't like her family at all . 
Mother called them the neighbourhood mystery , and father spoke of them as the Infidels . 
They had dropped from nowhere , mother said , bought that splendid big farm , moved on and shut out every one . 
Before any one knew people were shut out , mother , dressed in her finest , with Laddie driving , went in the carriage , all shining , to make friends with them . 
This very girl opened the door and said that her mother was indisposed , and could not see callers . 
In dis posed ! That's a good word that fills your mouth , but our mother didn't like having it used to her . 
She said the saucy chit was insulting . 
Then the man came , and he said he was very sorry , but his wife would see no one . 
He did invite mother in , but she wouldn't go . 
She told us she could see past him into the house and there was such finery as never in all her days had she laid eyes on . 
She said he was mannerly as could be , but he had the coldest , severest face she ever saw . 
They had two men and a woman servant , and no one could coax a word from them , about why those people acted as they did . 
They said 'orse , and 'ouse , and Hengland . 
They talked so funny you couldn't have understood them anyway . 
They never plowed or put in a crop . 
They made everything into a meadow and had more horses , cattle , and sheep than a county fair , and everything you ever knew with feathers , even peacocks . 
We could hear them scream whenever it was going to rain . 
Father said they sounded heathenish . 
The man had stacks of money or they couldn't have lived the way they did . 
He came to our house twice on business once to see about road laws , and again about tax rates . 
Father was mightily pleased at first , because Mr. Pryor seemed to have books , and to know everything , and father thought it would be fine to be neighbours . 
But the minute Mr. Pryor finished business he began to argue that every single thing father and mother believed was wrong . 
He said right out in plain English that God was a myth . 
Then their neighbours often saw the woman around the house and garden . 
She wouldn't let a soul know she had a pain until she dropped over and couldn't take another step , and father or Laddie carried her to bed . 
But she went everywhere , saw all her friends , and did more good from her bed than any other woman in our neighbourhood could on her feet . 
So we thought mighty little of those Pryor people . 
Every one said the girl was pretty . 
Then her clothes drove the other women crazy . 
Some of our neighbourhood came from far down east , like my mother . 
Our people back a little were from over the sea , and they knew how things should be , to be right . 
Many of the others were from Kentucky and Virginia , and they were well dressed , proud , handsome women none better looking anywhere . 
They followed the fashions and spent much time and money on their clothes . 
When it was Quarterly Meeting or the Bishop dedicated the church or they went to town on court days , you should have seen them until Pryors came . 
Then something new happened , and not a woman in our neighbourhood liked it . 
Pamela Pryor didn't follow the fashions . 
If every other woman made long tight sleeves to their wrists , she let hers flow to the elbow and filled them with silk lining , ruffled with lace . 
If they wore high neckbands , she had none , and used a flat lace collar . 
If she ever worked a stroke , no one knew it . 
She rode in sunshine and she rode in storm , until you would think she couldn't see her way through her tangled black hair . 
She rode through snow and in pouring rain , when she could have stayed out of it , if she had wanted to . 
She didn't seem to be afraid of anything on earth or in Heaven . 
Men took off their hats , got out of the road when she came pounding along , and stared after her like be addled mummies , my mother said . 
But that was all she , or any one else , could say . 
What dazed me was that she answered in every particular the description Laddie had given me of the Queen's daughter . 
At first it was because she was like they thought a Princess would be , but later they did it in meanness , to make fun . 
I was never in such a fix in all my life . 
She looked more as Laddie had said the Princess would than you would have thought any woman could , but she was Pamela Pryor , nevertheless . 
Every one called her the Princess , but she couldn't make reality out of that . 
She just couldn't be the Fairy Queen's daughter so the letter couldn't possibly be for her . 
She had no business in our woods you could see that they had plenty of their own . 
She went straight to the door of the willow room and walked in as if she belonged there . 
What if she found the hollow and took Laddie's letter ! Fast as I could slip over the leaves , I went back . 
She was on the moss carpet , on her knees , and the letter was in her fingers . 
It's a good thing to have your manners soundly thrashed into you . 
You've got to be scared stiff before you forget them . 
I wasn't so afraid of her as I would have been if I had known she WAS the princess , and have Laddies letter , she should not . 
Might I inquire for whom you put it there ? No ma'am ! That's a secret . 
You should have seen the light flame in her eyes , the red deepen on her cheeks , and the little curl of laughter that curved her lips . 
How interesting ! she cried . 
I wonder now if you are not Little Sister . 
I am to Laddie and our folks , I said . 
All the dancing lights went from her face . 
She looked as if she were going to cry unless she hurried up and swallowed it down hard and fast . 
That is quite true , she said . 
Of course I wouldn't even dare try that . 
I'm so sorry , was all I could think to say . 
I couldn't ask her to come to our house . 
I knew no one wanted her . 
But if I couldn't speak for the others , surely I might for myself . 
I let go the willows and went to the door . 
The Princess arose and sat on the seat Laddie had made for the Queen's daughter . 
Some way the Princess , who was not a Princess , appeared so real , I couldn't keep from becoming confused and forgetting that she was only just Pamela Pryor . 
Already the lovely lights had gone from her face until it made me so sad I wanted to cry , and I was no easy cry baby either . 
If I couldn't offer friendship for my family I would for myself . 
You may call me Little Sister , if you like , I said . 
I won't be a stranger . 
Why how lovely ! cried the Princess . 
You should have seen the dancing lights fly back to her eyes . 
I just had sense enough to reach over and pick Laddie's letter from her fingers , and then I was on her side . 
I like you , I said , reaching up to touch her curls . 
I never had seen her that I did not want to . 
They were like I thought they would be . 
I began trying to single out one hair . 
What are you doing ? she asked . 
I want to know if only one hair is strong enough to draw a drowning man from the water or strangle an unhappy one , I said . 
Believe me , no ! cried the Princess . 
It would take all I have , woven into a rope , to do that . 
Laddie knows curls that just one hair of them is strong enough , I boasted . 
I wonder now ! said the Princess . 
I think he must have been making poetry or telling Fairy tales . 
He was telling the truth , I assured her . 
Father doesn't believe in Fairies , and mother laughs , but Laddie and I know . 
Do you believe in Fairies ? Of course I do ! she said . 
Then you know that this COULD be an Enchanted Wood ? I have found it so , said the Princess . 
And MAYBE this is a Magic Carpet ? It surely is a Magic Carpet . 
And you might be the daughter of the Queen ? Your eyes are moonlit pools of darkness . 
If only your hair were stronger , and you knew about making sunshine ! Maybe it is stronger than I think . 
It never has been tested . 
Perhaps I do know about making sunshine . 
Possibly I am as true as the wood and the carpet . 
I drew away and stared at her . 
The longer I looked the more uncertain I became . 
Maybe her mother was the Queen . 
Perhaps that was the mystery . 
It might be the reason she didn't want the people to see her . 
It was hard to know what to think . 
I wish you'd tell me plain out if you are the Queen's daughter , I said . 
You can't have this letter unless I KNOW . 
It's the very first time Laddie ever trusted me with a letter , and I just can't give it to the wrong person . 
Then why don't you leave it where he told you ? But you have gone and found the place . 
You started to take it once you would again , soon as I left . 
Look me straight in the eyes , Little Sister , said the Princess softly . 
Am I like a person who would take anything that didn't belong to her ? No ! I said instantly . 
How do you think I happened to come to this place ? Maybe our woods are prettier than yours . 
How do you think I knew where the letter was ? I shook my head . 
If I show you some others exactly like the one you have there , then will you believe that is for me ? Yes , I answered . 
It just SEEMED so , the better you knew her . 
The Princess slipped her hand among the folds of the trailing pale green skirt , and from a hidden pocket drew other letters exactly like the one I held . 
Slowly I handed her the letter . 
You don't want me to have it ? she asked . 
I want you to have it if Laddie wrote it for you but mother and father won't , not at all . 
What makes you think so ? she asked gently . 
Don't you know what people say about you ? Some of it , perhaps . 
I have to believe that . 
Yes , you can't help believing that , said the Princess . 
Then can't you see why you'll be likely to show Laddie the way to find trouble , instead of sunshine ? I can see , said the Princess . 
Oh Princess , you won't do it , will you ? I cried . 
Don't you think such a big man as Laddie can take care of himself ? she asked , and the dancing lights that had begun to fade came back . 
Over there , she pointed through our woods toward the southwest , lives a man you know . 
What do his neighbours call him ? Stiff necked Johnny , I answered promptly . 
And the man who lives next him ? Pinch fist Williams . 
Her finger veered to another neighbour's . 
The girls of that house ? Giggle head Smithsons . 
What about the man who lives over there ? He beats his wife . 
And the house beyond ? Mother whispers about them . 
And the woman on the hill ? She doesn't do anything but gussip and make every one trouble . 
Exactly ! said the Princess . 
Yet most of these people come to your house , and your family goes to theirs . 
That I can't possibly do , she said , but maybe I could change their feelings toward me . 
Do it ! I cried . 
Oh , I'd just love you to do it ! I wish you would come to our house and be friends . 
Sally is pretty as you are , only a different way , and I know she'd like you , and so would Shelley . 
If Laddie writes you letters and comes here about sunshine , of course he'd be delighted if mother knew you because she loves him best of any of us . 
She depends on him most as much as father . 
Then will you keep the secret until I have time to try say until this time next year ? I'll keep it just as long as Laddie wants me to . 
Good ! said the Princess . 
No wonder Laddie thinks you the finest Little Sister any one ever had . 
Does Laddie think that ? I asked He does indeed ! said the Princess . 
Then I'm not afraid to go home , I said . 
And I'll bring his letter the next time he can't come . 
Were you scared this time ? I told her about that Something in the dry bed , the wolves , wildcats , Paddy Ryan , and the Gypsies . 
You little goosie , said the Princess . 
I am afraid that brother Leon of yours is the biggest rogue loose in this part of the country . 
Anyway , nothing could get me coming , because I held the letter tight in my hand , like Laddie said . 
If you'd write me one to take back , I'd be safe going home . 
I see , said the Princess . 
But I've no pencil , and no paper , unless I use the back of one of Laddie's letters , and that wouldn't be polite . 
You can make new fashions , I said , but you don't know much about the woods , do you ? I could fix fifty ways to send a message to Laddie . 
How would you ? asked the Princess . 
Running to the pawpaw bushes I pulled some big tender leaves . 
Then I took the bark from the box and laid a leaf on it . 
Press with one of your rings , I said , and print what you want to say . 
I write to the Fairies every day that way , only I use an old knife handle . 
She spoiled two or three by bearing down so hard she cut the leaves . 
She didn't even know enough to write on the frosty side , until she was told . 
But pretty soon she got along so well she printed all over two big ones . 
Then I took a stick and punched little holes and stuck a piece of foxfire bloom through . 
What makes you do that ? she asked . 
That's the stamp , I explained . 
But it's my letter , and I didn't put it there . 
Has to be there or the Fairies won't like it , I said . 
Well then , let it go , said the Princess . 
I put back the bark and replaced the stone , gathered up the scattered leaves , and put the two with writing on between fresh ones . 
Now I must run , I said , or Laddie will think the Gypsies have got me sure . 
I'll go with you past the dry creek , she offered . 
You better not , I said . 
I'd love to have you , but it would be best for you to change their opinion , before father or mother sees you on their land . 
Perhaps it would , said the Princess . 
I'll wait here until you reach the fence and then you call and I'll know you are in the open and feel comfortable . 
I am most all over being afraid now , I told her . 
Just to show her , I walked to the creek , climbed the gate and went down the lane . 
Almost to the road I began wondering what I could do with the letter , when looking ahead I saw Laddie coming . 
I was just starting to find you . 
You've been an age , child , he said . 
I held up the letter . 
No one is looking , I said , and this won't go in your pocket . 
You should have seen his face . 
Where did you get it ? he asked . 
I told him all about it . 
I never did see him so happy . 
If you be very , very careful never to breathe a whisper , I'll take you with me some day , he promised . 
It was supper time when we reached home , and Bobby was at the front gate to meet me . 
I have seen many white bantams , but never another like Bobby . 
My big brothers bought him for me in Fort Wayne , and sent him in a box , alone on the cars . 
Father and I drove to Groveville to meet him . 
He was the sauciest , spunkiest little fellow , and white as muslin . 
After supper I finished Hezekiah's trousers , and May cut his coat for me . 
School would begin in September and our clothes were being made , so I used the scraps to dress him . 
His suit was done by the next forenoon , and father never laughed harder than when Hezekiah hopped down the walk to meet him dressed in pink trousers and coat . 
The coat had flowing sleeves like the Princess wore , so Hezekiah could fly , and he seemed to like them . 
His suit was such a success I began a sunbonnet , and when that was tied on him , the folks almost had spasms . 
They said he wouldn't like being dressed that he would fly away to punish me , but he did no such thing . 
He stayed around the house and was tame as ever . 
When I became tired sewing that afternoon , I went down the lane leading to our meadow , where Leon was killing thistles with a grubbing hoe . 
I thought he would be glad to see me , and he was . 
Every one had been busy in the house , so I went to the cellar the outside way and ate all I wanted from the cupboard . 
Then I spread two big slices of bread the best I could with my fingers , putting apple butter on one , and mashed potatoes on the other . 
Leon leaned on the hoe and watched me coming . 
He was a hungry boy , and lonesome too , but he couldn't be forced to say so . 
Laddie is at work in the barn , he said . 
I'm going to play in the creek , I answered . 
The sheep had been put in the lower pasture so the cross old Shropshire ram was not there to bother us . 
Come to the shade , I said to Leon , and when we were comfortably seated under a big maple weighted down with trailing grapevines , I offered the bread . 
Leon took a piece in each hand and began to eat as if he were starving . 
Laddie would have kissed me and said What a fine treat ! Thank you , Little Sister . 
He ate so greedily you had to know he was glad to get it , but he wouldn't say so , not if he never got any more . 
When you knew him , you understood he wouldn't forget it , and he'd be certain to do something nice for you before the day was over to pay back . 
We sat there talking about everything we saw , and at last Leon said with a grin Shelley isn't getting much grape sap is she ? I didn't know she wanted grape sap . 
She read about it in a paper . 
It said to cut the vine of a wild grape , catch the drippings and moisten your hair . 
This would make it glossy and grow faster . 
I looked and there was the vine , dry as could be , and a milk crock beneath it . 
Too bad that she's going to be disappointed . 
She isn't ! She's going to find ample liquid to bathe her streaming tresses . 
Keep quiet and watch me . 
He picked up the crock , carried it to the creek and dipped it full of water . 
That's too much , I objected . 
She'll know she never got a crock full from a dry vine . 
She'll think the vine bled itself dry for her sake . 
Well then , how silly is she ? asked Leon , spilling out half . 
About so ? Not so bad as that . 
Less yet ! Anything to please the ladies , said Leon , pouring out more . 
Then we sat and giggled a while . 
What are you going to do now ? asked Leon . 
Play in the creek , I answered . 
All right ! I'll work near you . 
He rolled his trousers above his knees and took the hoe , but he was in the water most of the time . 
Pete was wrong in his head like Paddy Ryan , only worse . 
We looked at each other and never said a word . 
Leon chased them out with the hoe and they swam down stream faster than old ones . 
I stood in the shallow water behind them and kept them from going back to the deep place , while Leon worked to catch them . 
Every time he got one he brought it to me , and I made a bag of my apron front to put them in . 
The supper bell rang before we caught all of them . 
We were dripping wet with creek water and perspiration , but we had the ducks , every one of them , and proudly started home . 
I'll wager Leon was sorry he didn't wear aprons so he could carry them . 
He did keep the last one in his hands , and held its little fluffy body against his cheeks every few minutes . 
Couldn't anything be prettier than a young duck . 
Except a little guinea , I said . 
That's so ! said Leon . 
They are most as pretty as quail . 
I guess all young things that have down are about as cunning as they can be . 
I don't believe I know which I like best , myself . 
Nothing of ours is pretty as these . 
So they are , said Leon . 
Won't mother be pleased ? She was not in the least . 
She said we were a sight to behold that she was ashamed to be the mother of two children who didn't know tame ducks from wild ones . 
She remembered instantly that Amanda Deam had set a speckled Dorking hen on Mallard duck eggs , where she got the eggs , and what she paid for them . 
We went through the orchard , down the hill and across the meadow until we came to the creek . 
By that time we were tired of the basket . 
It was one father had woven himself of shaved and soaked hickory strips , and it was heavy . 
The sight of water suggested the proper place for ducks , anyway . 
Pigs couldn't have acted more contrary . 
They wouldn't go to Deams' . 
They just fought to swim back to us . 
Anyway , we had the worst time you ever saw . 
Leon cut long switches to herd them with , and both of us waded and tried to drive them , but they would dart under embankments and roots , and dive and hide . 
By the time we drove them under the floodgate crossing the creek between our land and the Deams' four were gone . 
Leon left me on the gate with both switches to keep them from going back and he ran to call Mrs. Deam . 
She had red hair and a hot temper , and we were not very anxious to see her , but we had to do it . 
While Leon was gone I was thinking pretty fast and I knew exactly how things would happen . 
First time mother saw Mrs. Deam she would ask her if the ducks were all right , and she would tell that four were gone . 
It had to be done quickly too , for I could hear Amanda Deam , her boy Sammy and Leon coming across the barnyard . 
I looked around in despair , but when things are the very worst , there is almost always some way out . 
On the dry straw worked between and pushing against the panels of the floodgate , not far from me , I saw a big black water snake . 
I rolled from the floodgate among the ducks , and cried , Snake ! They scattered everywhere . 
The snake lazily uncoiled and slid across the straw so slowly that thank goodness ! Amanda Deam got a fair look at it . 
She immediately began to jump up and down and scream . 
Leon grabbed a stick and came running to the water . 
I cried so he had to help me out first . 
Don't let her count them ! I whispered . 
Leon gave me one swift look and all the mischief in his blue eyes peeped out . 
He was the funniest boy you ever knew , anyway . 
Mostly he looked scowly and abused . 
He had a grievance against everybody and everything . 
He said none of us liked him , and we imposed on him . 
When he wanted to , he could smile the most winning smile , and he could coax you into anything . 
Right now he was the busiest kind of a boy . 
For a woman who had seen as many as she must have in her life , it was too funny . 
I don't think I could laugh harder , or Leon and Sammy . 
We enjoyed ourselves so much that at last she began to be angry . 
She quit dancing , and commenced hunting ducks , for sure . 
She held her skirts high , poked along the banks , jumped the creek and didn't always get clear across . 
Her hair shook down , she lost a sidecomb , and she couldn't find half the ducks . 
You younguns pack right out of here , she said . 
Me and Sammy can get them better ourselves , and if we don't find all of them , we'll know where they are . 
We haven't got any of your ducks , I said angrily , but Leon smiled his most angelic smile , and it seemed as if he were going to cry . 
Come on , Little Sister , let's go home . 
He started and I followed . 
As soon as we got around the bend we sat on the bank , hung our feet in the water , leaned against each other and laughed . 
We just laughed ourselves almost sick . 
When Amanda's face got fire red , and her hair came down , and she jumped and didn't go quite over , she looked a perfect fright . 
Will she ever find all of them ? I asked at last . 
Of course , said Leon . 
She will comb the grass and strain the water until she gets every one . 
Hoo hoo ! I looked at Leon . 
It was difficult to hurry , for after we had been soaped and scoured , we had to sit on the back steps and commit to memory verses from the Bible . 
At last we waded toward home . 
Two of the ducks we had lost swam before us all the way , so we knew they were alive , and all they needed was finding . 
If she hadn't accused mother of stealing her old ducks , I'd catch those and carry them back to her , said Leon . 
But since she thinks we are so mean , I'll just let her and little Sammy find them . 
There we heard another call , but that was only two . 
We sat there , rested and looked at the green apples above our heads , wishing they were ripe , and talking about the ducks . 
We could see Mrs. Deam and Sammy coming down the creek , one on each side . 
We slid from the fence and ran into a queer hollow that was cut into the hill between the never fail and the Baldwin apple trees . 
That hollow was overgrown with weeds , and full of trimmings from trees , stumps , everything that no one wanted any place else in the orchard . 
It was the only unkept spot on our land , and I always wondered why father didn't clean it out and make it look respectable . 
I said so to Leon as we crouched there watching down the hill where Mrs. Deam and Sammy hunted ducks with not such very grand success . 
They seemed to have so many they couldn't decide whether to go back or go on , so they must have found most of them . 
You know I've always had my suspicions about this place , said Leon . 
There is somewhere on our land that people can be hidden for a long time . 
Once I was awake in the night and heard voices . 
It made me want a drink , so I went downstairs for it , and ran right into the biggest , blackest man who ever grew . 
If father and mother hadn't been there I'd have been scared into fits . 
Next morning he was gone and there wasn't a whisper . 
Father said I'd had bad dreams . 
That night the horses made another mysterious trip . 
I'd have done the same thing . 
Father was a friend of the Governor . 
There were letters from him , and there was some good reason why father stayed at home , when he was crazy about the war . 
I think this farm was what they called an Underground Station . 
What I want to know is where the station was . 
Let's hunt , I said . 
If the black men were here some time , they would have to be fed , and this is not far from the house . 
So we took long sticks and began poking into the weeds . 
Then we moved the brush , and sure as you live , we found an old door with a big stone against it . 
I looked at Leon and he looked at me . 
Hoo hoo ! came mother's voice , and that was the third call . 
Hum ! Must be for us , said Leon . 
We better go as soon as we get a little dryer . 
He slid down the bank on one side , and I on the other , and we pushed at the stone . 
I thought we never would get it rolled away so we could open the door a crack , but when we did what we saw was most surprising . 
There was a little room , dreadfully small . 
There was straw scattered over the floor , very deep on one side , where an old blanket showed that it had been a bed . 
Across the end there was a shelf . 
On it was a candlestick , with a half burned candle in it , a pie pan with some mouldy crumbs , crusts , bones in it , and a tin can . 
Leon picked up the can and looked in . 
It had been used for water or coffee , as the plate had for food , once , but now it was stuffed full of money . 
When we got it in place we put the brush over it , and fixed everything like it had been . 
At last Leon said That's the time we got into something not intended for us , and if father finds it out , we are in for a good thrashing . 
All right ! Come on then , said Leon . 
I don't know but mother has been calling us . 
We started up the orchard path at the fourth call . 
Hoo hoo ! answered Leon in a sick little voice to make it sound far away . 
Must have made mother think we were on Deams' hill . 
Then we went on side by side . 
Say Leon , you found the Station , didn't you ? Don't talk about it ! snapped Leon . 
I changed the subject Whose money do you suppose that is ? Oh crackey ! You can depend on a girl to see everything , groaned Leon . 
The idea of being switched until it made me sick was too much for me . 
I shut my mouth tight and I never opened it about the Station place . 
As we reached the maiden's blush apple tree came another call , and it sounded pretty cross , I can tell you . 
Now , it's time to run . 
Let me do the talking . 
We were out of breath when we reached the back door . 
There stood the tub on the kitchen floor , the boiler on the stove , soap , towels , and clean clothing on chairs . 
Leon had his turn at having his ears washed first , because he could bathe himself while mother did my hair . 
Was Mrs. Deam glad to get her ducks back ? she asked as she fine combed Leon . 
Aw , you never can tell whether she's glad about anything or not , growled Leon . 
You'd have thought from the way she acted , that we'd been trying to steal her ducks . 
She said if she missed any she'd know where to find them . 
Well as I live ! cried mother . 
Why I wouldn't have believed that of Amanda Deam . 
You told her you thought they were wild , of course . 
I didn't have a chance to tell her anything . 
The minute the ducks struck the water they started right back down stream , and there was a big snake , and we had an awful time . 
We got wet trying to head them back , and then we didn't find all of them . 
They are like little eels . 
You should have helped Amanda . 
Well , you called so cross we thought you would come after us , so we had to run . 
One never knows , sighed mother . 
I thought you were loitering . 
Of course if I had known you were having trouble with the ducks ! I think you had better go back and help them . 
Didn't I do enough to take them home ? Can't Sammy Deam catch ducks as fast as I can ? I suppose so , said mother . 
And I must get your bathing out of the way of supper . 
You use the tub while I do Little Sister's hair . 
I almost hated Sunday , because of what had to be done to my hair on Saturday , to get ready for it . 
All week it hung in two long braids that were brushed and arranged each morning . 
But on Saturday it had to be combed with a fine comb , oiled and rolled around strips of tin until Sunday morning . 
She raked that fine comb over our scalps until she almost raised the blood . 
She hadn't time to fool with tangles , and we had so much hair she didn't know what to do with all of it , anyway . 
When she was busy talking she reached around too far and combed across our foreheads or raked the tip of an ear . 
But on Sunday morning we forgot all that , when we walked down the aisle with shining curls hanging below our waists . 
Mother was using the fine comb , when she looked up , and there stood Mrs. Freshett . 
We could see at a glance that she was out of breath . 
Have I beat them ? she cried . 
Whom are you trying to beat ? asked mother as she told May to set a chair for Mrs. Freshett and bring her a drink . 
The grave kiver men , she said . 
I wanted to get to you first . 
Well , you have , said mother . 
Rest a while and then tell me . 
But Mrs. Freshett was so excited she couldn't rest . 
I thought they were coming straight on down , she said , but they must have turned off at the cross roads . 
Says I , Josiah , to my way of thinkin' , she is top crust in this neighbourhood , and I'm on the safe side apin' her ways clost as possible . 
I'll gladly help you all I can , said my mother . 
Thanky ! said Mrs. Freshett . 
Josiah he says to me , Don't you be apin' nobody . 
Josiah , says I , it takes a pretty smart woman in this world to realize what she doesn't know . 
You ain't even got the remains of the cabin you started in for a cow shed . 
Says I , Josiah , Miss Stanton knows how to get out of a cabin an' into a grand big palace , fit fur a queen woman . 
She's a ridin' in a shinin' kerridge , 'stid of a spring wagon . 
She goes abroad dressed so's you men all stand starin' like cabbage heads . 
All hern go to church , an' Sunday school , an' college , an' come out on the top of the heap . 
She does jest what I'd like to if I knowed how . 
An' she ain't come uppety one morsel . 
I don't find the Pryors easy to become acquainted with , said mother . 
Well , I wouldn't have s'posed she was your kind , said Mrs. Freshett . 
If she is , I won't open my head against her any more . 
Anyway , it was the grave kivers I come about . 
Just what is it , Mrs. Freshett ? asked mother . 
It's two men sellin' a patent iron kiver for to protect the graves of your dead from the sun an' the rain . 
Who wants the graves of their dead protected from the sun and the rain ? demanded my mother sharply . 
I said to Josiah , I don't know how she'll feel about it , but I can't do more than ask . 
Do they carry a sample ? What is it like ? Jest the len'th an' width of a grave . 
They got from baby to six footer sizes . 
They are cast iron like the bottom of a cook stove on the under side , but atop they are polished so they shine somethin' beautiful . 
You can get them in a solid piece , or with a hole in the centre about the size of a milk crock to set flowers through . 
They come ten to the grave , an' they are mighty stylish lookin' things . 
I don't 'low for Henry to be slighted bekase he rid himself to death trying to make a president out of his pa's gin'ral . 
You never told me how you lost your son , said mother , feeling so badly she wiped one of my eyes full of oil . 
Law now , didn't I ? inquired Mrs. Freshett . 
Well mebby that is bekase I ain't had a chance to tell you much of anythin' , your bein' always so busy like , an' me not wantin' to wear out my welcome . 
Seemed as if when he got home , his pa was all tired out and glad to set down an' rest , but Henry was afire to be up an' goin' . 
His pa filled him so full o' Grant , it was runnin' out of his ears . 
Come the second run the Gin'ral made , peered like Henry set out to 'lect him all by hisself . 
He wore every horse on the place out , ridin' to rallies . 
Sometimes he was gone three days at a stretch . 
He'd git one place an' hear of a rally on ten miles or so furder , an' blest if he didn't ride plum acrost the state 'fore he got through with one trip . 
He set out in July , and he rid right straight through to November , nigh onto every day of his life . 
Last few days before votin' was cold an' raw an' Henry rid constant . 
Put me to bed an' kiver me warm . 
I forgot the sting in my eyes watching Mrs. Freshett . 
She was the largest woman I knew , and strong as most men . 
Her hair was black and glisteny , her eyes black , her cheeks red , her skin a clear , even dark tint . 
She was handsome , she was honest , and she was in earnest over everything . 
There was something about her , or her family , that had to be told in whispers , and some of the neighbours would have nothing to do with her . 
I stared at her steadily . 
She talked straight along , so rapidly you scarcely could keep up with the words you couldn't if you wanted to think about them any between . 
There was not a quiver in her voice , but from her eyes there rolled , steadily , the biggest , roundest tears I ever saw . 
He was speechifyin' to beat anythin' you ever heard . 
His pa said he was repeatin' what he'd heard said by every big stump speaker from Greeley to Logan . 
Suddenly Mrs. Freshett lifted her apron , covered her face and sobbed until her broad shoulders shook . 
Oh you poor soul ! said my mother . 
I'm so sorry for you ! I never knowed he was a goin' until he was gone , she said . 
He was the only one of mine I ever lost , an' I thought it would jest lay me out . 
I couldn't 'a' stood it at all if I hadn't 'a' knowed he was saved . 
I well know my Henry went straight to Heaven . 
Mother sprang up and ran to the door . 
Then there was a slam . 
What in the world is the matter ? she asked . 
Stepped out of the tub right on the soap , and it threw me down , explained Leon . 
For mercy sake , be careful ! said my mother , and shut the door . 
It wasn't a minute before the knob turned and it opened again a little . 
I heard you lost two when the scarlet fever was ragin' an' I'm goin' to do jest what you do . 
If you have kivers , I will . 
If you don't like them when you see how bright and shiny they are , I won't get any either . 
I don't want any cover for the graves of my dead but grass and flowers , and sky and clouds . 
I like the rain to fall on them , and the sun to shine , so that the grass and flowers will grow . 
If you are satisfied that the soul of Henry is safe in Heaven , that is all that is necessary . 
Laying a slab of iron on top of earth six feet above his body will make no difference to him . 
If he is singing with the angels , by all means save your money for the organ . 
I don't know about the singin' , but I'd stake my last red cent he's still hollerin' fur Grant . 
What good would it do ? asked mother . 
The iron would soon rust and grow dreadfully ugly lying under winter snow . 
'Twould be a poor idea for me , said Mrs. Freshett . 
Mother stiffened and Leon slipped again . 
He could have more accidents than any boy I ever knew . 
But it was only a few minutes until he came to mother and gave her a Bible to mark the verses he had to learn to recite at Sunday school next day . 
He took his Bible and he and May and I sat on the back steps and studied our verses . 
He and May were so big they had ten but I had only two , and mine were not very long . 
Leon giggled half the time he was studying . 
I haven't found anything so very funny in the Bible . 
Mrs. Freshett stayed so long mother had no time to hear him , but he told her he had them all learned so he could repeat them without a mistake . 
Next morning mother was busy , so she had no time then . 
Father , Shelley , and I rode on the front seat , mother , May , and Sally on the back , while the boys started early and walked . 
When we reached the top of the hill , the road was lined with carriages , wagons , spring wagons , and saddle horses . 
Father found a place for our team and we went down the walk between the hitching rack and the cemetery fence . 
Mother opened the gate and knelt beside two small graves covered with grass , shaded by yellow rose bushes , and marked with little white stones . 
She laid some flowers on each and wiped the dust from the carved letters with her handkerchief . 
The little sisters who had scarlet fever and whooping cough lay there . 
Mother was still a minute and then she said softly The Lord has given and the Lord has taken away . 
Blessed be the name of the Lord . 
She was very pale when she came to us , but her eyes were bright and she smiled as she put her arms around as many of us as she could reach . 
What a beautiful horse ! said Sally . 
Look at that saddle and bridle ! The Pryor girl is here . 
Why should she come ? asked Shelley . 
To show her fine clothes and queen it over us ! Children , children ! said mother . 
Judge not ! This is a house of worship . 
The Lord may be drawing her in His own way . 
It is for us to help Him by being kind and making her welcome . 
It suddenly seemed cheap to me to twist my hair when it was straight as a shingle , and cut my head on tin . 
If the Lord had wanted me to have curls , my hair would have been like Sally's . 
Seemed to me hers tried to see into what big soft curls it could roll . 
May said ours was so straight it bent back the other way . 
Anyway , I made up my mind to talk it over with father and always wear braids after that , if I could get him to coax mother to let me . 
Our church was quite new and it was beautiful . 
The windows were wide open and the wind drifted through , while the birds sang as much as they ever do in August , among the trees and bushes of the cemetery . 
Every one had planted so many flowers of all kinds on the graves you could scent sweet odours . 
Often a big , black striped , brown butterfly came sailing in through one of the windows , followed the draft across the room , and out of another . 
I was thinking something funny it was about what the Princess had said of other people , and whether hers were worse . 
I looked at my father sitting in calm dignity in his Sunday suit and thought him quite as fine and handsome as mother did . 
Every Sabbath he wore the same suit , he sat in the same spot , he worshipped the Lord in his calm , earnest way . 
The ministers changed , but father was as much a part of the service as the Bible on the desk or the communion table . 
I wondered if people said things about him , and if they did , what they were . 
Twisting in my seat , one by one I studied the faces on the men's side , and then the women . 
It was a mighty good looking crowd . 
Some had finer clothes than others that is always the way but as a rule every one was clean , neat , and good to see . 
From some you scarcely could turn away . 
She was French , from Virginia , and she talked like little tinkly notes of music . 
I just loved to hear her , and she walked like high up royalty . 
Her dress was always black , with white bands at the neck and sleeves , black rustly silk , and her eyes and hair were like the dress . 
There was a little red on her cheeks and lips , and her face was always grave until she saw you directly before her , and then she smiled the sweetest smile . 
Mrs. Fritz had a pretty face and dresses and manners , and so did Hannah Dover , only she talked too much . 
She reminded me of a scared cowslip that had been cut and laid in the sun an hour . 
I don't know as that expresses it . 
Perhaps a flower couldn't look scared , but it could be wilted and faded . 
I wondered if she ever had bright hair , laughing eyes , and red in her lips and cheeks . 
She must have been pretty if she had . 
At last I reached my mother . 
There was nothing scared or faded about her , and she was dreadfully sick too , once in a while since she had the fever . 
She was a little bit of a woman , coloured like a wild rose petal , face and body a piece of pink porcelain Dutch , father said . 
She had brown eyes , hair like silk , and she always had three best dresses . 
There was one of alpaca or woollen , of black , gray or brown , and two silks . 
When these grew too old for fine use , she wore them to Sunday school and had a fresh one for best . 
There was a new gray in her closet at home , so she put on the old brown to day , and she was lovely in it . 
Then the superintendent read the lesson over as impressively as he could . 
The secretary made his report , we sang another song , gathered the pennies , and each teacher took a class and talked over the lesson a few minutes . 
Beginning with the littlest people , we came to the big folks . 
Each one recited two texts until they reached the class above mine . 
We walked to the front , stood inside the altar , made a little bow , and the superintendent kept score . 
I could see that mother appeared worried when Leon's name was called for his class , for she hadn't heard him , and she was afraid he would forget . 
Among the funny things about Leon was this while you had to drive other boys of his age to recite , you almost had to hold him to keep him from it . 
Father said he was born for a politician or a preacher , if he would be good , and grow into the right kind of a man to do such responsible work . 
I forgot several last Sabbath , so I have thirteen to day , he said politely . 
Of course no one expected anything like that . 
You never knew what might happen when Leon did anything . 
He must have been about sixteen . 
He was a slender lad , having almost sandy hair , like his English grandfather . 
He wore a white ruffled shirt with a broad collar , and cuffs turning back over his black jacket , and his trousers fitted his slight legs closely . 
The wind whipped his soft black tie a little and ruffled the light hair where it was longest and wavy above his forehead . 
Such a perfect picture of innocence you never saw . 
There was one part of him that couldn't be described any better than the way Mr. Rienzi told about his brother in his Address to the Romans , in McGuffey's Sixth . 
The look of heaven on his face stayed most of the time again , there was a dealish twinkle that sparkled and flashed while he was thinking up something mischievous to do . 
When he was fighting angry , and going to thrash Absalom Saunders or die trying , he was plain white and his eyes were like steel . 
Mother called him Weiscope , half the time . 
I can only spell the way that sounds , but it means white head , and she always used that name when she loved him most . 
The look of heaven was strong on his face now . 
One , said the recording secretary . 
Jesus wept , answered Leon promptly . 
There was not a sound in the church . 
You could almost hear the butterflies pass . 
Father looked down and laid his lower lip in folds with his fingers , like he did sometimes when it wouldn't behave to suit him . 
Two , said the secretary after just a breath of pause . 
Abram straightened up suddenly and blinked in astonishment , while father held fast to his lip . 
Three , called the secretary hurriedly . 
Leon shifted his gaze to Betsy Alton , who hadn't spoken to her next door neighbour in five years . 
Hatred stirreth up strife , he told her softly , but love covereth all sins . 
Things were so quiet it seemed as if the air would snap . 
The mild blue eyes travelled back to the men's side and settled on Isaac Thomas , a man too lazy to plow and sow land his father had left him . 
They were not so mild , and the voice was touched with command Go to the ant , thou sluggard , consider her ways and be wise . 
Five , said the secretary hurriedly , as if he wished it were over . 
Back came the eyes to the women's side and past all question looked straight at Hannah Dover . 
As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout , so is a fair woman without discretion . 
Six , said the secretary and looked appealingly at father , whose face was filled with dismay . 
Again Leon's eyes crossed the aisle and he looked directly at the man whom everybody in the community called Stiff necked Johnny . 
I think he was rather proud of it , he worked so hard to keep them doing it . 
Lift not up your horn on high speak not with a stiff neck , Leon commanded him . 
Toward the door some one tittered . 
Seven , called the secretary hastily . 
Leon glanced around the room . 
But how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity , he announced in delighted tones as if he had found it out by himself . 
Eight , called the secretary with something like a breath of relief . 
Our angel boy never had looked so angelic , and he was beaming on the Princess . 
Thou art all fair , my love there is no spot in thee , he told her . 
Laddie would thrash him for that . 
Instantly after , Nine , he recited straight at Laddie I made a covenant with mine eyes why then should I think upon a maid ? More than one giggled that time . 
Ten ! came almost sharply . 
Leon looked scared for the first time . 
He actually seemed to shiver . 
Maybe he realized at last that it was a pretty serious thing he was doing . 
When he spoke he said these words in the most surprised voice you ever heard I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly . 
Perhaps these words are in the Bible . 
Suddenly Leon seemed to be forsaken . 
He surely shrank in size and appeared abused . 
The Lord is on my side I will not fear what can man do unto me ? inquired Leon of every one in the church . 
Then he soberly made a bow and walked to his seat . 
Father's voice broke that silence . 
Let us kneel in prayer , he said . 
He took a step forward , knelt , laid his hands on the altar , closed his eyes and turned his face upward . 
Our Heavenly Father , we come before Thee in a trying situation , he said . 
Thy word of truth has been spoken to us by a thoughtless boy , whether in a spirit of helpfulness or of jest , Thou knowest . 
Tears of compassion such as our dear Saviour wept are in our eyes this morning as we plead with Thee to help us to apply these words to the betterment of this community . 
Then father began to pray . 
If the Lord had been standing six feet in front of him , and his life had depended on what he said , he could have prayed no harder . 
Goodness knows how fathers remember . 
When he arose the tears were running down his cheeks , and before him stood Leon . 
He was white as could be , but he spoke out loudly and clearly . 
Please forgive me , sir I didn't intend to hurt your feelings . 
Please every one forgive me . 
I didn't mean to offend any one . 
It happened through hunting short verses . 
All the short ones seemed to be like that , and they made me think He got no farther . 
Father must have been afraid of what he might say next . 
That was another wonderful thing . 
My father didn't know the notes . 
He couldn't sing he said so himself . 
Neither could half the people there , yet all of them were singing at the tops of their voices , and I don't believe the angels in Heaven could make grander music . 
It is no right way to have to sit and keep still , and pay other people money to sing about Heaven to you . 
When she reached Betsy Alton she held her hand and led her down the aisle straight toward Rachel Brown . 
When Rachel saw them coming she hurried to meet them , and they shook hands and were glad to make up as any two people you ever saw . 
It was no wonder they felt glad . 
Mother came on , and as she passed me the verses were all finished and every one began talking and moving . 
Johnny Dover forgot his neck and shook hands too , and father pronounced the benediction . 
He always had to when the minister wasn't there , because he was ordained himself , and you didn't dare pronounce the benediction unless you were . 
Every one began talking again , and wondering if the minister wouldn't come soon , and some one went out to see . 
There was mother standing only a few feet from the Princess , and I thought of something . 
I took mother's hand and led her a few steps farther and said Mother , this is my friend , Pamela Pryor . 
I believe I did it fairly well . 
Mother must have been surprised , but she put out her hand . 
I didn't know Miss Pryor and you were acquainted . 
It's only been a little while , I told her . 
I met her when I was on some business with the Fairies . 
Can't you do something , mother ? Well , I should think so ! said mother , for her heart was soft as rose leaves . 
Maybe you won't believe this , but it's quite true . 
My mother took the Princess' arm and led her to Sally and Shelley , and introduced her to all the girls . 
When mother asked her to dinner she said Thank you kindly . 
I should be glad to go , but my people expect me at home and they would be uneasy . 
Anyway , the Princess had said she would come over mother and Shelley had been decent to her , and Sally hadn't been exactly insulting . 
It would be a little more than you could expect for her to be wild about the Princess . 
I believe she was pleased over having been invited to dinner , and as she was a stranger she couldn't know that mother had what we called the invitation habit . 
I have seen her ask from fifteen to twenty in one trip down the aisle on Sunday morning . 
She wanted them to come too the more who came , the better she liked it . 
If the hitching rack and barnyard were full on Sunday she just beamed . 
If the sermon pleased her , she invited more . 
Almost everyone in the church was the happiest that morning they had been in years . 
Maybe after all it's a good thing to tell people about their meanness and give them a stirring up once in a while . 
CHAPTER III Mr. Pryor's Door Grief will be joy if on its edge Fall soft that holiest ray , Joy will be grief if no faint pledge Be there of heavenly day . 
Have Sally and Peter said anything about getting married yet ? asked my big sister Lucy of mother . 
Lucy was home on a visit . 
She was bathing her baby and mother was sewing . 
Not a word ! Are they engaged ? Sally hasn't mentioned it . 
Well , can't you find out ? How could I ? asked mother . 
Why , watch them a little and see how they act when they are together . 
If he kisses her when he leaves , of course they are engaged . 
It would be best to wait until Sally tells me , laughed mother . 
I heard this from the back steps . 
Neither mother nor Lucy knew I was there . 
I went in to see if they would let me take the baby . 
Of course they wouldn't ! Mother took it herself . 
The colt sprang aside down went the boy in the dirt . 
Aw , don't sing my song to that little red , pug nosed bald head ! I said . 
Really , it was a very nice baby I only said that because I wanted to hold it , and mother wouldn't give it up . 
I tried to coax May to the dam snake hunting , but she couldn't go , so I had to amuse myself . 
I had a doll , but I never played with it except when I was dressed up on Sunday . 
Of course I knew moss wouldn't take root in our orchard as it did in the woods , neither would willow cuttings or the red flowers . 
Finally , I decided to go hunting . 
I went into the garden and gathered every ripe touch me not pod I could find , and all the portulaca . 
Then I stripped the tiger lilies of each little black ball at the bases of the leaves , and took all the four o'clock seed there was . 
Then I got my biggest alder popgun and started up the road toward Sarah Hood's . 
I was going along singing a little verse it wasn't Dutch either the old baby could have that if it wanted it . 
Good morning ! I said when I could speak . 
Am I correct in the surmise that you are on the chase with a popgun ? he asked politely . 
Yes sir , I answered , getting my breath the best I could . 
It came easier after I noticed he didn't seem to be angry about anything . 
Where is your hunting ground , and what game are you after ? he asked gravely . 
You can see the great African jungle over there . 
I am going to hunt for lions and tigers . 
Father is extremely particular about white hair . 
It is a crown of glory , when it is found in the way of the Lord . 
Mahlon Pryor had enough crown of glory for three men , but maybe his wasn't exactly glory , because he wasn't in the way of the Lord . 
He was in a way of his own . 
He must have had much confidence in himself . 
At our house we would rather trust in the Lord . 
I only told him about the lions and tigers because he asked me , and that was the way I played . 
But you should have heard him laugh . 
You wouldn't have supposed to see him that he could . 
Umph ! he said at last . 
I am a little curious about your ammunition . 
Just how to you bring down your prey ? I use portulaca powder and tiger lily bullets on the tigers , and four o'clocks on the lions , I said . 
You could have heard him a mile , dried up as he was . 
I used to wear a red coat and ride to the hounds fox hunting , he said . 
He went on asking questions and of course I had to tell him . 
Most of what he wanted to know , his people should have taught him before he was ten years old , but father says they do things differently in England . 
There doesn't seem to be many trees in the jungle . 
Well , there's one , and it's about the most important on our land , I told him . 
Father wouldn't cut it down for a farm . 
Father says a red bird and a yellow one keeping house in the same tree is the biggest thing that ever happened in our family . 
They come every year and that is their tree . 
I believe father would shoot any one who drove them away . 
Your father is a gunner also ? he asked , and I thought he was laughing to himself . 
Yes sir , my father can shoot if he wants to , better than any of our family except Laddie . 
And does Laddie shoot well ? Laddie does everything well , I answered proudly . 
He won't try to do anything at all , until he practises so he can do it well . 
Score one for Laddie , he said in a queer voice . 
Are you in a hurry about the lions and tigers ? Not at all , he answered . 
Well , here I always stop and let Governor Oglesby go swimming , I said . 
Mr. Mahlon Pryor sat on the bank of our Little Creek , took off his hat and shook back his hair as if the wind felt good on his forehead . 
I fished Dick Oglesby from the ammunition in my apron pocket , and held him toward the cross old man , and he wasn't cross at all . 
It's funny how you come to get such wrong ideas about people . 
My big married sister who lives in Westchester sent him to me last Christmas , I explained . 
I like Dick the best because he fits my apron pocket . 
What did he do ? He didn't want one named Morton that much . 
It's a new way , I said . 
He just stands still and the water swims around him . 
It's very easy for him . 
Then I carried Dick to the water , waded in and stood him against a stone . 
I found it out one day when I got some apple butter on the governor giving him a bite of my bread , and put him in the wash bowl to soak . 
He was two and a half inches tall but the minute you stood him in water he went down to about half that height and spread out to twice his size around . 
You should have heard Mr. Pryor . 
If you will lie on the bank and watch you'll have more to laugh at than that , I promised . 
He lay down and never paid the least attention to his clothes . 
Pretty soon a little chub fish came swimming around to make friends with Governor Oglesby , and then a shiner and some more chub . 
I took a shot at the crayfish with the tiger ammunition and then loaded for lions . 
At last I heard one . 
I touched Mr. Pryor's sleeve to warn him to keep his eyes on the trail . 
Pretty soon the lion came in sight . 
I never did hear any one laugh so . 
I thought if he enjoyed it like that , I'd let him shoot one . 
After we had waited a long time out came a muskrat , and started for the river . 
It won't stay all day ! He forgot how to push the ramrod like I showed him , so he reached out and tried to hit it with the gun . 
Don't do that ! I said . 
But it's getting away ! It's getting away ! he cried . 
Well , what if it is ? I asked , half provoked . 
Do you suppose I really would hurt a poor little muskrat ? Maybe it has six hungry babies in its home . 
It is perfectly wonderful about how some men can't get along without killing things , such little bits of helpless creatures too . 
I told him about it and he was interested and anxious to see the place . 
If there had been a shovel , I am quite sure he would have gone to digging . 
He kept poking around with his boot toe , and he said maybe the yokels didn't look good . 
He said our meadow was a beautiful place , and when he praised the creek I told him about the wild ducks , and he laughed again . 
He didn't seem to be the same man when we went back to the road . 
I pulled some sweet marsh grass and gave his horse bites , so Mr. Pryor asked if I liked animals . 
I said I loved horses , Laddie's best of all . 
He asked about it and I told him . 
Hasn't your father but one thoroughbred ? Father hasn't any , I said . 
Flos really belongs to Laddie , and we are mighty glad he has her . 
You should have one soon , yourself , he said . 
Well , if the rest of them will hurry up and marry off , so the expenses won't be so heavy , maybe I can . 
How many of you are there ? he asked . 
Only twelve , I said . 
He looked down the road at our house . 
Do you mean to tell me you have twelve children there ? he inquired . 
Oh no ! I answered . 
Some of the big boys have gone into business in the cities around , and some of the girls are married . 
Mother says she has only to show her girls in the cities to have them snapped up like hot cakes . 
I fancy that is the truth , he said . 
I've passed the one who rides the little black pony and she is a picture . 
A fine , healthy , sensible appearing young woman ! I don't think she's as pretty as your girl , I said . 
Perhaps I don't either , he replied , smiling at me . 
Then he mounted his horse . 
I don't remember that I ever have passed that house , he said , without hearing some one singing . 
Does it go on all the time ? Yes , unless mother is sick . 
And what is it all about ? Oh just joy ! Gladness that we are alive , that we have things to do that we like , and praising the Lord . 
Umph ! said Mr. Pryor . 
It's just letting out what our hearts are full of , I told him . 
Don't you know that song Tis the old time religion And you cannot keep it still ? He shook his head . 
It's an awful nice song , I explained . 
After it sings about all the other things religion is good for , there is one line that says IT'S GOOD FOR THOSE IN TROUBLE . 
I looked at him straight and hard , but he only turned white and seemed sick . 
So ? said Mr. Pryor . 
Well , thank you for the most interesting morning I've had this side England . 
I should be delighted if you would come and hunt lions in my woods with me some time . 
A mystery is the dreadfulest thing . 
Then if children don't matter , maybe I can come lion hunting some time with the Princess , after she has made the visit at our house she said she would . 
Indeed ! I hadn't been informed that my daughter contemplated visiting your house , he said . 
When was it arranged ? My mother invited her last Sunday . 
I didn't like the way he said O o o h ! Some way it seemed insulting to my mother . 
She did it to please me , I said . 
There was a Fairy Princess told me the other day that your girl felt like a stranger , and that to be a stranger was the hardest thing in all the world . 
She sat a little way from the others , and she looked so lonely . 
I pulled my mother's sleeve and led her to your girl and made them shake hands , and then mother HAD to ask her to come to dinner with us . 
She always invites every one she meets coming down the aisle she couldn't help asking your girl , too . 
She said she was expected at home , but she'd come some day and get acquainted . 
She needn't if you object . 
My mother only asked her because she thought she was lonely , and maybe she wanted to come . 
He sat there staring straight ahead and he seemed to grow whiter , and older , and colder every minute . 
Possibly she is lonely , he said at last . 
This isn't much like the life she left . 
Perhaps she does feel herself a stranger . 
It was very kind of your mother to invite her . 
If she wants to come , I shall make no objections . 
No , but my father will , I said . 
He straightened up as if something had hit him . 
Why will he object ? On account of what you said about God at our house , I told him . 
And then , too , father's people were from England , and he says real Englishmen have their doors wide open , and welcome people who offer friendliness . 
Mr. Pryor hit his horse an awful blow . 
It reared and went racing up the road until I thought it was running away . 
I could see I had made him angry enough to burst . 
I wondered what he would think . 
He wouldn't say anything , so Bobby and I went across the lane , and climbed the gate into the orchard to see if Hezekiah were there and wanted to fight . 
He hadn't time to fight Bobby because he was busy chasing every wild jay from our orchard . 
By the time he got that done , he was tired , so he came hopping along on branches above us as Bobby and I went down the west fence beside the lane . 
If I had been compelled to choose the side of our orchard I liked best , I don't know which I would have selected . 
The west side that is , the one behind the dooryard was running over with interesting things . 
Two gates opened into it , one from near each corner of the yard . 
Between these there was quite a wide level space , where mother fed the big chickens and kept the hens in coops with little ones . 
Then came a double row of prize peach trees rare fruit that mother canned to take to county fairs . 
One bore big , white freestones , and around the seed they were pink as a rose . 
One was a white cling , and one was yellow . 
There was a yellow freestone as big as a young sun , and as golden , and the queerest of all was a cling purple as a beet . 
Sometimes father read about the hairs of the head being numbered , because we were so precious in the sight of the Almighty . 
Father said there was a distinct relationship between a smoke house and a dog kennel , and bulldogs were best . 
Just at present we were out of bulldogs , but Jones , Jenkins and Co . 
could make as much noise as any dog you ever heard . 
On the left grew the plum trees all the way to the south fence , and I think there was one of every kind in the fruit catalogues . 
Father spent hours pruning , grafting , and fertilizing them . 
He said they required twice as much work as peaches . 
My ! but father was proud ! He always packed especially fine ones for Mr. White's family . 
He said he liked him , because he was a real sandy Scotchman , who knew when an apple was right , and wasn't afraid to say so . 
On the south side of the orchard there was the earliest June apple tree . 
The apples were small , bright red with yellow stripes , crisp , juicy and sweet enough to be just right . 
The tree was very large , and so heavy it leaned far to the northeast . 
This sounds like make believe , but it's gospel truth . 
Almost two feet from the ground there was a big round growth , the size of a hash bowl . 
The tree must have been hurt when very small and the place enlarged with the trunk . 
Now it made a grand step . 
All the bark on the south side was worn away and the trunk was smooth and shiny . 
The birds loved to nest among the branches , and under the peach tree in the fence corner opposite was a big bed of my mother's favourite wild flowers , blue eyed Marys . 
They had dainty stems from six to eight inches high and delicate heads of bloom made up of little flowers , two petals up , blue , two turning down , white . 
Perhaps you don't know about anything prettier than that . 
She got the hairs at our barn , for most of them were gray from our carriage horses , Ned and Jo . 
The east end ran along the brow of a hill so steep we coasted down it on the big meat board all winter . 
The board was six inches thick , two and a half feet wide , and six long . 
At least seven of us could go skimming down that hill and halfway across the meadow on it . 
In the very place we slid across , in summer lay the cowslip bed . 
The world is full of beautiful spots , but I doubt if any of them ever were prettier than that . 
We didn't sink deep , but all summer there was water standing there . 
I often had meeting all by myself , unless Bobby and Hezekiah were along , and I tried to tell God what I thought about things . 
It just seemed as if I must tell what I thought , and I felt better , not so full and restless after I had finished . 
All of us were alike about that . 
Lucy would be rocking her baby and singing , Hush , my dear , lie still and slumber . 
Candace just loved that song . 
She sang it all the time . 
Father would be whispering over to himself the speech he was preparing to make at the next prayer meeting . 
We never could learn his speeches , because he read and studied so much it kept his head so full , he made a new one every time . 
Over in the barn Leon was singing A life on the ocean wave , A home on the rolling deep , Where codfish waggle their tails 'Mid tadpoles two feet deep . 
He could make your hair stand a little straighter than any one else the best teachers we ever had , or even Laddie , couldn't make you shivery and creepy as he could . 
Because all of us kept going like that every day , people couldn't pass without hearing , so THAT was what Mr. Pryor meant . 
I had a pulpit in the southeast corner of the orchard . 
I liked that place best of all because from it you could see two sides at once . 
The very first little , old log cabin that had been on our land , the one my father and mother moved into , had stood in that corner . 
In the fence corner mother's big white turkey hen always nested . 
To protect her from rain and too hot sun , father had slipped some boards between the rails about three feet from the ground . 
After the turkey left , that was my pulpit . 
I stood there and used the top of the fence for my railing . 
I set Bobby and Hezekiah on the fence and stood between them . 
We will open service this morning by singing the thirty fifth hymn , I said . 
I sang all of it and then said Brother Hastings , will you lead us in prayer ? Then I knelt down , and prayed Brother Hastings' prayer . 
I loved words that filled your mouth , and sounded as if you were used to books . 
We beseech Thee to forgive our transgressions , Heal our backsliding , and love us freely . 
Sometimes from there on it changed a little , but it always began and ended exactly the same way . 
Father said Brother Hastings was powerful in prayer , but he did wish he'd leave out the worms of the dust . 
He said we were not worms of the dust we were reasoning , progressive , inventive men and women . 
Now if you are talking about cutworms or fishworms , father is right . 
Now I'll bet a cent THAT is the kind of worm Brother Hastings said we were . 
I must speak to father about it . 
I don't want him to be mistaken and I really think he is about worms . 
Of course he knows the kind that have wings and fly . 
Brother Hastings mixed him up by saying worms of the dust when he should have said worms of the leaves . 
So father and Brother Hastings were both partly right , and partly wrong . 
I had to stop the service to feed him a little wheat , to pay him for crowing but as no one was there except us , that didn't matter . 
Then Hezekiah crowded over for some , so I had to pretend I was Mrs. Daniels feeding her children caraway cake , like she always did in meeting . 
If I had been the mother of children who couldn't have gone without things to eat in church I'd have kept them at home . 
Blessed are all men , but most blessed are they who hold their tempers . 
We have only to look around us this morning to see that all men are blessed , I said . 
The sky is big enough to cover every one . 
If the sun gets too hot , there are trees for shade or the clouds come up for a while . 
If the earth becomes too dry , it always rains before it is everlastingly too late . 
It doesn't seem right for cows to eat flowers but maybe it is as right for them as it is for us . 
You notice , O Lord , the cows did not eat the flowers in this instance they merely rested among them , and goodness knows , that's enough for any cow . 
So every man is blessed , because Thy bounty has provided all these things for him , without money and without price . 
If some men are not so blessed as others , it is their own fault , and not Yours . 
You made the earth , and all that is therein , and You made the men . 
If there is anything at all , seems as if making Isaac Thomas work would be it . 
Mother thinks it isn't fair to feed Isaac and send him home with his stomach full , while Mandy and the babies are sick and hungry . 
But Isaac is some blessed , because he has religion and gets real happy , and sings , and shouts , and he's going to Heaven when he dies . 
He must wish he'd go soon , especially in winter . 
He looks like he was going to hit people , and he does hit his horse an awful crack . 
It's no way to hit a horse , not even if it balks , because it can't hit back , and it's a cowardly thing to do . 
Teach him to have a pleasant countenance , an open door , and to hold his temper . 
Have patience with him , and have mercy on him , O Lord ! Let us pray . 
That time I prayed myself . 
I looked into the sky just as straight and as far as I could see , and if I had any influence at all , I used it then . 
I do hope it got away . 
Anyway , I prayed as hard as I could , and every time I said the strongest thing I knew , I punched Bobby to crow , and he never came out stronger . 
Then I was Sister Dover and started Oh come let us gather at the fountain , the fountain that never goes dry . 
Just as I was going to pronounce the benediction like father , I heard something , so I looked around , and there went he and Dr . 
They were going toward the house , and yet , they hadn't passed me . 
I was not scared , because I knew no one was sick . 
When a meal was almost cooked she heaped some on a plate and he ate as he drove and left the plate next time he passed . 
Often he was so dead tired , he was asleep in his buggy , and his old gray horse always stopped at our gate . 
I ended with Amen , because I wanted to know if they had been listening so I climbed the fence , ran down the lane behind the bushes , and hid a minute . 
Sure enough they had ! I suppose I had been so in earnest I hadn't heard a sound , but it's a wonder Hezekiah hadn't told me . 
He was always seeing something to make danger signals about . 
He never let me run on a snake , or a hawk get one of the chickens , or Paddy Ryan come too close . 
They were talking about me . 
I can't account for her , said father . 
I can ! said Dr . 
She is the only child I ever have had in my practice who managed to reach earth as all children should . 
During the impressionable stage , no one expected her , so there was no time spent in worrying , fretting , and discontent . 
I don't mean that these things were customary with Ruth . 
No woman ever accepted motherhood in a more beautiful spirit but if she would have protested at any time , it would have been then . 
Instead , she lived happily , naturally , and enjoyed herself as she never had before . 
She was in the fields , the woods , and the garden constantly , which accounts for this child's outdoor tendencies . 
Then you must remember that both of you were at top notch intellectually , and physically , fully matured . 
She had the benefit of ripened minds , and at a time when every faculty recently had been stirred by the excitement and suffering of the war . 
Oh , you can account for her easily enough , but I don't know what on earth you are going to do with her . 
You'll have to go careful , Paul . 
I warn you she will not be like the others . 
Mother says she doubts if she can ever teach her to sew and become a housewife . 
She isn't cut out for a seamstress or a housewife , Paul . 
Tell Ruth not to try to force those things on her . 
Turn her loose out of doors give her good books , and leave her alone . 
You won't be disappointed in the woman who evolves . 
Right there I realized what I was doing , and I turned and ran for the pulpit with all my might . 
I could always repeat things , but I couldn't see much sense to the first part of that the last was as plain as the nose on your face . 
Fenner said they mustn't force me to sew , and do housework and mother didn't mind the Almighty any better than she did the doctor . 
I liked carpet rags a little better , because I didn't have to be so particular about stitches , and I always picked out all the bright , pretty colours . 
Mother said she could follow my work all over the floor by the bright spots . 
Perhaps if I were not to be kept in the house I wouldn't have to sew any more . 
That made me so happy I wondered if I couldn't stretch out my arms and wave them and fly . 
I sat on the pulpit wishing I had feathers . 
It made me pretty blue to have to stay on the ground all the time , when I wanted to be sailing up among the clouds with the turkey buzzards . 
Of course , I never heard a turkey buzzard sing . 
Laddie said they couldn't but that didn't prove it . 
He said half the members of our church couldn't sing , but they DID and when all of them were going at the tops of their voices , it was just grand . 
That was so exciting I thought I'd just try it , so I stood on the top rail , spread my arms , waved them , and started . 
The only consolation I had was what Dr . 
That would be the greatest possible help in managing father or mother . 
I was undecided about whether I would go to school , or not . 
I could spell quite well without looking at a schoolhouse , and read too . 
I was wondering if I ever would go at all , when I thought of something else . 
Fenner had said to give me plenty of good books . 
I was wild for some that were already promised me . 
Of course those would be interesting . 
I would just have to start school when Leon and May went in September . 
Tilly Baher , who lived across the swamp near Sarah Hood , had gone two winters already , and she was only a year older , and not half my size . 
I stood on the pulpit and looked a long time in every direction , into the sky the longest of all . 
I must go I might as well start and have it over . 
I couldn't look anywhere , right there at home , and not see more things I didn't know about than I did . 
When mother showed me in the city , I wouldn't be snapped up like hot cakes I'd be a blockhead no one would have . 
It made me so vexed to think I had to go , I set Hezekiah on my shoulder , took Bobby under my arm , and went to the house . 
CHAPTER IV The Last Day in Eden 'Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore , And coming events cast their shadows before . 
Of course the baby was asleep and couldn't be touched but there was some excitement , anyway . 
Father had come from town with a letter from the new school teacher , that said she would expect him to meet her at the station next Saturday . 
Mother thought she might as well get the room ready and let her stay at our house , because we were most convenient , and it would be the best place for her . 
She said that every time , and the teacher always stayed with us . 
Really it was because father and mother wanted the teacher where they could know as much as possible about what was going on . 
Sally didn't like having her at all she said with the wedding coming , the teacher would be a nuisance . 
Shelley had finished our school , and the Groveville high school , and instead of attending college she was going to Chicago to study music . 
May said it would be best to have the teacher with us , because she could help us with our lessons at home , and we could get ahead of the others . 
Once she had spelled down our school , when Laddie was not there . 
Father had met Peter Dover in town , and he had said that he was coming to see Sally , because he had something of especial importance to tell her . 
Did he say what it was ? asked Sally . 
Only what I have told you , replied father . 
Sally wanted to take the broom and sweep the parlour . 
It's clean as a ribbon , said mother . 
If you go in there , you'll wake the baby , said Lucy . 
Will it kill it if I do ? asked Sally . 
No , but it will make it cross as fire , so it will cry all the time Peter is here , said Lucy . 
I'll be surprised if it doesn't scream every minute anyway , said Sally . 
I hope it will , said Lucy . 
That will make Peter think a while before he comes so often . 
That made Sally so angry she couldn't speak , so she went out and began killing chickens . 
I helped her catch them . 
They were so used to me they would come right to my feet when I shelled corn . 
I'm going to kill three , said Sally . 
I'm going to be sure we have enough , but don't you tell until their heads are off . 
While she was working on them mother came out and asked how many she had , so Sally said three . 
Mother counted us and said that wasn't enough there would have to be four at least . 
The minute I saw Peter Dover he made me think of something . 
I rode his horse to the barn with Leon leading it . 
Guess what ! I cried . 
Never could ! laughed Laddie , giving Peter Dover's horse a slap as it passed him on the way to a stall . 
Four chickens , ham , biscuit , and cake ! I announced . 
Is it a barbecue ? asked Laddie . 
No , the extra one is for the baby , said Leon . 
Squally little runt , I call it . 
It's a nice baby ! said Laddie . 
What do you know about it ? demanded Leon . 
Well , considering that I started with you , and have brought up two others since , I am schooled in all there is to know , said Laddie . 
Guess what else ! I cried . 
Out with it ! Don't kill me with suspense . 
Father is going to town Saturday to meet the new teacher and she will stay at our house as usual . 
Leon yelled and fell back in a manger , while Laddie held harness oil to his nose . 
More ! cried Leon , grabbing the bottle . 
Are you sure ? asked Laddie of me earnestly . 
Mother said so , I told him . 
Name of a black cat , why ? demanded Laddie . 
Mother said we were most convenient for the teacher . 
Aren't there enough of us ? asked Leon , straightening up sniffing harness oil as if his life depended on it . 
Any unprejudiced person would probably say so to look in , said Laddie . 
I'll bet she'll be sixty and a cat , said Leon . 
Won't I have fun with her ? Maybe so , maybe not ! said Laddie . 
You can't always tell , for sure . 
Remember your Alamo ! You were going to have fun with the teacher last year , but she had it with you . 
Leon threw the oil bottle at him . 
Laddie caught it and set it on the shelf . 
I don't understand , said Leon . 
I do , said Laddie dryly . 
He hit Peter Dover's horse another slap . 
Maybe yes , said Leon . 
Shelley to music school , two . 
Peter Dovers are the greatest expense , and Peter won't happen but once . 
Shelley will have at least two years in school before it is her turn , and you come next , anyway . 
Shut up ! cried Laddie . 
Thanky ! Your orders shall be obeyed gladly . 
He laid down the pitchfork , went outside , closed the door , and latched it . 
Laddie called to him , but he ran to the house . 
When Laddie and I finished our work , and his , and wanted to go , we had to climb the stairs and leave through the front door on the embankment . 
The monkey ! said Laddie , but he didn't get mad he just laughed . 
The minute I stepped into the house and saw the parlour door closed , I thought of that something again . 
I walked past it , but couldn't hear anything . 
Of course mother wanted to know and she would be very thankful to me if I could tell her . 
I went out the front door , and thought deeply on the situation . 
The windows were wide open , but I was far below them and I could only hear a sort of murmur . 
Why can't people speak up loud and plain , anyway ? Of course they would sit on the big haircloth sofa . 
Didn't Leon call it the sparking bench ? The hemlock tree would be best . 
I climbed quieter than a cat , for they break bark and make an awful scratching with their claws sometimes my bare feet were soundless . 
Up and up I went , slowly , for it was dreadfully rough . 
They were not on the sofa . 
I could see plainly through the needles . 
Then I saw the spruce would have been better , for they were standing in front of the parlour door and Peter had one hand on the knob . 
His other arm was around my sister Sally . 
Breathlessly I leaned as far as I could , and watched . 
Father said he'd give me the money to buy a half interest , and furnish a house nicely , if you said yes , Sally , said Peter . 
Sally leaned back all pinksome and blushful , and while she laughed at him she Carelessly tossed off a curl That played on her delicate brow . 
exactly like Mary Dow in McGuffey's Third . 
Well , what did I SAY ? she asked . 
Come to think of it , you didn't say anything . 
Sally's face was all afire with dancing lights , and she laughed the gayest little laugh . 
Are you so very sure of that , Peter ? she said . 
I'm not sure of anything , said Peter , except that I am so happy I could fly . 
Try it , fool ! I said to myself , deep in my throat . 
I let go and rolled , tumbled , slid , and scratched down the hemlock tree , dropped from the last branch to the ground , and scampered around the house . 
I reached the dining room door when every one was gathering for supper . 
Sally made a dive at me , and I was so astonished I forgot to run , so she caught me . 
She started for the wood house with me , and mother followed . 
Sally turned at the door and she was the whitest of anything you ever saw . 
This is my affair , she said . 
I'll attend to this young lady . 
Very well , said mother , and as I live she turned and left me to my sad fate , as it says in a story book we have . 
I wish when people are going to punish me , they'd take a switch and strike respectably , like mother does . 
This thing of having some one get all over me , and not having an idea where I'm going to be hit , is the worst punishment that I ever had . 
I'd been down the hill and up the hemlock that day , anyway . 
I'd always been told Sally didn't want me . 
She PROVED it right then . 
Finally she quit , because she was too tired to strike again , so I crept among the shavings on the work bench and went to sleep . 
I THOUGHT they would like to know , and that I was going to please them . 
After that , you couldn't hear anything at our house but wedding . 
Sally's share of linen and bedding was all finished long ago . 
It was strange that Sally didn't want mother to go , but she said the trip would tire her too much . 
Mother said it was because Sally could coax more dresses from father . 
Anyway , mother told him to set a limit and stick to it . 
The next day a sewing woman came and all of them were shut up in the sitting room , while the sewing machine just whizzed on the working dresses . 
Sally said the wedding dress had to be made by hand . 
It was awfully exciting , but I wouldn't pretend I cared , because I was huffy at her . 
I told her I wouldn't kiss her goodbye , and I'd be GLAD when she was gone . 
May , Leon , and I went to do our share . 
All of us dropped everything and ran to the south windows . 
We looked at each other and groaned when father stopped at the hitching post and got out . 
If we had tried to see what a dreadful muss we could make , things could have looked no worse . 
She hopped from the carriage and came hopping after father . 
She was as tall as a clothes prop and scarcely as fat . 
There were gray hairs coming on her temples . 
Her face was sallow and wrinkled , and she had faded , pale blue eyes . 
Her dress was like my mother had worn several years before , in style , and of stiff gray stuff . 
She made me feel that no one wanted her at home , and probably that was the reason she had come so far away . 
Mother always went to meet people and May was old enough to know it . 
Oh do let me remain and help the dear children ! she cried . 
We can finish ! we answered in full chorus . 
How lovely of you ! she chirped . 
Chirp makes you think of a bird and in speech and manner Miss Amelia Pollard was the most birdlike of any human being I ever have seen . 
She hopped from the step to the walk , turned to us , her head on one side , playfulness in the air around her , and shook her finger at us . 
Be extremely particular that you leave things immaculate at the consummation of your labour , she said . 
Remember that cleanliness is next to Godliness ! Two terms of that ! gasped Leon , sinking on the stove hearth . 
Behold Job mourning as close the ashes as he can . 
Billy Wilson had the top lid off , so he reached down and got a big handful of ashes and sifted them over Leon . 
Why does the little feathered dear touch earth at all ? Why doesn't she fly ? demanded Silas Shaw . 
I'm going to get a hundred wads ready for Monday , said Jimmy Hood . 
We can shoot them when we please . 
Bet ten cents you can't hit her , said Billy Wilson . 
There ain't enough of her for a decent mark . 
Let's quit and go home , proposed Leon . 
This will look worse than it does now by Monday night . 
Then every one began talking at once . 
Suddenly May seized the poker and began pounding on the top of the stove for order . 
We must clean this up , she said . 
We might as well finish . 
Maybe you'll shoot wads and do what you please , and maybe you won't . 
Her eyes went around like a cat that smells mice . 
If she can spell the language she uses , she is the best we've ever had . 
That made us blink , and I never forgot it . 
Many times afterward while listening to people talk , I wondered if they could spell the words they used . 
Well , come on , then ! said Leon . 
So we cleaned up as well as we could , and Leon strutted like Bobby , because he locked the door and carried the key . 
When we reached home I was sorry I hadn't gone with father , so I could have seen mother , Sally , Candace , and Laddie when first they met the new teacher . 
The shock showed yet ! Miss Amelia had taken off her smothery woollen dress and put on a black calico , but it wasn't any more cheerful . 
She didn't know what to do , and you could see plainly that no one knew what to do with her , so they united in sending me to show her the place . 
I asked her what she would like most to see , and she said everything was so charming she couldn't decide . 
I thought if she had no more choice than that , one place would do as well as another , so I started for the orchard . 
Quick as we got there , I knew what to do . 
I led her straight to our best cling peach tree , told her to climb on the fence so she could reach easily , and eat all she chose . 
We didn't dare shake the tree , because the pigs ran on the other side of the fence , and they chanked up every peach that fell there . 
Those peaches were too good to feed even father's finest Berkshires . 
By the time Miss Amelia had eaten nine or ten , she was so happy to think she was there , she quit tilting her head and using big words . 
Of course she couldn't know how I loved to hear them , and maybe she thought I wouldn't know what they meant , and that they would be wasted on me . 
When she reached the place where she ate more slowly , she began to talk . 
She must have asked me most a hundred questions . 
She always inquired if people were well , if their crops were growing , how much fruit they had , and how near their quilts were finished . 
I told her all about Sally and the wedding , because no one cared who knew it , after I had been pounded to mince meat for telling . 
She asked if Shelley had any beaus , and I said there wasn't any one who came like Peter , but every man in the neighbourhood wanted to be her beau . 
Then she asked about Laddie , and I was taking no risks , so I said I only see him at home . 
I don't know where he goes when he's away . 
You'll have to ask him . 
Oh , I never would dare , she said . 
He is so handsome ! The girls would just compel him to go to see them . 
Not if he didn't want to go , I said . 
You must never , never tell him I said so , but I do think he is the handsomest man I ever saw . 
So do I , I said , and it wouldn't make any difference if I told him . 
Then do you mean you're going to tell him my foolish remark ? she giggled . 
No use , I said . 
Every time he parts his hair he sees how good looking he is . 
He says the only thing that counts with a man is to be big , strong , manly , and well educated . 
Is he well educated ? Yes , I think so , as far as he's gone , I answered . 
Of course he will go on being educated every day of his life , same as father . 
He says it is all rot about finishing' your education . 
You learn more important things each day , and by the time you are old enough to die , you have almost enough sense to know how to live comfortably . 
Pity , isn't it ? Yes , said Miss Amelia , it's an awful pity , but it's the truth . 
Is your mother being educated too ? Whole family , I said . 
We learn all the time , mother most of any , because father always looks out for her . 
Just ask her if you think she doesn't know things . 
I wouldn't know what to ask , said Miss Amelia . 
Just ask her ! Miss Amelia threw a peach stone through a fence crack and hit a pig . 
It was a pretty neat shot . 
I don't need ask any of that , she said scornfully . 
I know all of it now . 
All right ! What is best for worms ? I asked . 
Jayne's vermifuge , said Miss Amelia . 
Tea made from male fern root is best , because there's no morphine in it ! The supper bell rang and I was glad of it . 
Peaches are not very filling after all , for I couldn't see but that Miss Amelia ate as much as any of us . 
I noticed that she kept her head straight , and was not nearly so glib tongued and birdlike before mother and Sally as she had been at the schoolhouse . 
Maybe that was why father told mother that night that the new teacher would bear acquaintance . 
Sunday was like every other Sabbath , except that I felt so sad all day I could have cried , but I was not going to do it . 
In the afternoon Miss Amelia asked Laddie to take her for a walk to see the creek , and the barn , and he couldn't escape . 
I suppose our barn was exactly like hundreds of others . 
It was built against an embankment so that on one side you could drive right on the threshing floor with big loads of grain . 
On the sunny side in the lower part were the sheep pens , cattle stalls , and horse mangers . 
The big swinging doors front and back could be opened to let the wind blow through in a strong draft . 
From the east doors you could see for miles across the country . 
I said our barn was like others , but it was not . 
There was not another like it in the whole world . 
Father , the boys , and the hired men always kept it cleaned and in proper shape every day . 
The upper floor was as neat as some women's houses . 
The barn was our great playhouse on Sundays . 
One day May came down on a snake that had been brought in with a load . 
I can hear her yell now , and it made her so frantic she's been killing them ever since . 
It was only a harmless little garter snake , but she was so surprised . 
Seemed as if she might fly any minute . 
She thought our barn was the nicest she ever had seen and the cleanest . 
She asked him to take her to the meadow , but he excused himself , because he had an engagement . 
So she stood in the door , and watched him saddle Flos and start to the house to dress in his riding clothes . 
After that she didn't care a thing about the meadow , so we went back . 
Our house looked as if we had a party . 
We were all dressed in our best , and every one was out in the yard , garden , or orchard . 
Peter and Sally were under the big pearmain apple tree at the foot of the orchard , Shelley and a half dozen beaus were everywhere . 
Father was reading a wonderful new book to mother and some of the neighbours . 
Leon was perfectly happy because no one wanted him , so he could tease all of them by saying things they didn't like to hear . 
You think you're pretty slick , said Leon . 
I know something I'm saving to tell next time you get smart , Mr. Laddie . 
Laddie seemed annoyed and no one was quicker to see it than Leon . 
I begged Leon to tell , but he wouldn't say a word more . 
He went and talked to Miss Amelia as friendly as you please , and asked her to take a walk in the orchard and get some peaches , and she went flying . 
He got her all she could carry and guided her to Peter and Sally , introduced her to Peter , and then slipped away and left her . 
Then he and Sally couldn't talk about their wedding , and Peter couldn't squeeze her hand , and she couldn't fix his tie , and it was awful . 
Shelley and her boys almost laughed themselves sick over it , and then she cried , To the rescue ! and started , so they followed . 
They captured Miss Amelia and brought her back , and left her with father and the wonderful book , but I'm sure she liked the orchard better . 
I took Grace Greenwood under my arm , Hezekiah on my shoulder , and with Bobby at my heels went away . 
I didn't want my hair pulled , or to be teased that day . 
As I went down the lane Peter called to me to come and see him , but I knew exactly how he looked , and didn't propose to make up . 
There was not any sense in Sally clawing me all over , when I only tried to help mother and Lucy find out what they wanted to know so badly . 
I went down the hill , crossed the creek on the stepping stones , and followed the cowpath into the woods pasture . 
It ran beside the creek bank through the spice thicket and blackberry patches , under pawpaw groves , and beneath giant oaks and elms . 
Just where the creek turned at the open pasture , below the church and cemetery , right at the deep bend , stood the biggest white oak father owned . 
I knew it was the same , because I counted the arms time and again , and there were exactly fifty . 
There was a pawpaw and spice hedge around three sides of this one , and water on the other . 
Wild grapes climbed from the bushes to the lower branches and trailed back to earth again . 
Here , I had two secrets I didn't propose to tell . 
I can't begin to tell how I loved those hawks . 
They did the one thing I wanted to most , and never could . 
When I saw them serenely soar above the lowest of the soft fleecy September clouds , I was wild with envy . 
I would have gone without chicken myself rather than have seen one of those splendid big brown birds dropped from the skies . 
I parted the vines and crept where the roots of the big oak stretched like bony fingers over the water , that was slowly eating under it and baring its roots . 
I sat on them above the water and thought . 
Doubled on the sak roots , a troubled little soul , I settled it once more . 
I had to go , but no one will ever know what it cost . 
When the supper bell rang , I sat still . 
I couldn't see or hear a thing that was standing still . 
Father said even the rocks grew larger year by year . 
The trees were getting bigger , the birds were busy , and the creek was in a dreadful hurry to reach the river . 
But that couldn't be helped now . 
All there was left was to go this time , for sure . 
I wanted to surprise Leon and I did . 
Getting good , ain't you ? he asked . 
What do you want ? Nothing ! I said . 
I just heard you coming and I thought I'd help you . 
Where were you ? Playing . 
You don't look as if you'd been having much fun . 
I don't expect ever to have any , after I begin school . 
It is kind of tough the first day or two , but you'll soon get over it . 
You should have behaved yourself , and gone when they started you two years ago . 
Think I don't know it ? Leon stopped and looked at me sharply . 
I'll help you nights , if you want me to , he offered . 
Can I ever learn ? I asked , almost ready to cry . 
Of course you can , said Leon . 
You're smart as the others , I suppose . 
The sevens and nines of the multiplication table are the stickers , but you ought to do them if other girls can . 
You needn't feel bad because you are behind a little to start on you are just that much better prepared to work , and you can soon overtake them . 
You know a lot none of the rest of us do , and some day it will come your turn to show off . 
Cheer up , you'll be all right . 
Men are such a comfort . 
I pressed closer for more . 
Do you suppose I will ? I asked . 
Of course , said Leon . 
Any minute the woods , or birds , or flowers are mentioned your time will come and all of us will hear you read and help nights . 
I'd just as soon as not . 
That was the most surprising thing . 
He never offered to help me before . 
He never acted as if he cared what became of me . 
Maybe it was because Laddie always had taken such good care of me , Leon had no chance . 
He seemed willing enough now . 
I looked at him closely . 
You'll find out I'll learn things if I try , I boasted . 
And you will find out I don't tell secrets either . 
I've been waiting for you to pipe up about Well , I haven't piped , have I ? Not yet . 
I am not going to either . 
A girl you could trust would be a funny thing to see . 
Tell me what you know about Laddie , and see if I'm funny . 
You'd telltale sure as life ! Well , if you know it , he knows it anyway . 
He doesn't know WHAT I know . 
Well , be careful and don't worry mother . 
You know how she is since the fever , and father says all of us must think of her . 
If it's anything that would bother her , don't tell before her . 
Say , looky here , said Leon , turning on me sharply , is all this sudden consideration for mother or are you legging for Laddie ? For both , I answered stoutly . 
Mostly for Laddie , just the same . 
You can't fool me , missy . 
I won't tell you one word . 
You needn't ! I answered , I don't care ! Yes you do , he said . 
You'd give anything to find out what I know , and then run to Laddie with it , but you can't fool me . 
I'm too smart for you . 
All right , I said . 
You go and tell anything on Laddie , and I'll watch you , and first trick I catch you at , I'll do some telling myself , Smarty . 
That's a game more than one can play at , said Leon . 
Go ahead ! CHAPTER V The First Day of School Birds in their little nests agree . 
Nothing ever had happened to me as bad as that . 
I was not used to so much clothing . 
It was like taking a colt from the woods pasture and putting it into harness for the first time . 
That lovely September morning I followed Leon and May down the dusty road , my heart sick with dread . 
May was so much smaller that I could have picked her up and carried her . 
She was a gentle , loving little thing , until some one went too far , and then they got what they deserved , all at once and right away . 
Many of the pupils were waiting before the church . 
We just yelled and I forgot a little about myself . 
If she had not , I'm quite sure I'd have run away and fought until they left me in freedom , as I had two years before . 
I was ashamed that I knew so little , but there was no sense in her making me spell after a pencil , like a baby . 
I'd never seen the book she picked up . 
I can see Miss Amelia to day . 
Her pale face was lined deeper than ever , her drab hair was dragged back tighter . 
She wore a black calico dress with white huckleberries , and a white calico apron figured in large black apples , each having a stem and two leaves . 
In dress she was a fruitful person . 
She had been a surprise to all of us . 
Chipper as a sparrow , she had hopped , and chattered , and darted here and there , until the hour of opening . 
Then in the stress of arranging classes and getting started , all her birdlike ways slipped from her . 
Every one was so surprised you could notice it , except May , and she looked , I told you so ! even in the back . 
She had a way of doing that very thing as I never saw any one else . 
I followed that pencil point and in a husky voice repeated the letters . 
As I repeated the line Miss Amelia thought she saw her chance . 
She sprang to her feet , tripped a few steps toward the centre of the platform , and cried Classes , attention ! Our Youngest Pupil has just completed her first sentence . 
This sentence contains a Thought . 
It is a wonderfully beautiful Thought . 
A Thought that suggests a great moral lesson for each of us . 
Birrrds in their little nests agreeee . 
Never have I heard cooing sweetness to equal the melting tones in which Miss Amelia drawled those words . 
Then she continued , after a good long pause in order to give us time to allow the Thought to sink in There is a lesson in this for all of us . 
We are here in our schoolroom , like little birds in their nest . 
Let us all remember always this wonderful truth Birrrrds in their little nests agreeeee ! In three steps I laid hold of her apron . 
Only last night Leon had said it would come , yet whoever would have thought that I'd get a chance like this , so soon . 
Ho but they don't ! I cried . 
A red wave crossed her face , and her eyes snapped . 
I never had been so surprised in all my life . 
I was only going to tell her the truth . 
What she had said was altogether false . 
Ever since I could remember I had watched courting male birds fight all over the farm . 
After a couple had paired , and were nest building , the father always drove every other bird from his location . 
In building I had seen him pecked for trying to place a twig . 
Always the oldest and strongest climbed on top of the youngest and fooled his mammy into feeding him most by having his head highest , his mouth widest , and begging loudest . 
There could be no mistake . 
I was so amazed I forgot the blow , as I stared at the fool woman . 
I don't see why you slap me ! I cried . 
It's the truth ! Lots of times old birds pull out bunches of feathers fighting , and young ones in the nests bite each other until they squeal . 
Miss Amelia caught my shoulders and shook me as hard as she could and she proved to be stronger than you ever would have thought to look at her . 
Take your seat ! she cried . 
You are a rude , untrained child ! They do fight ! I insisted , as I held my head high and walked to my desk . 
Leon laughed out loud , and that made everyone else . 
Miss Amelia had so much to do for a few minutes that she forgot me , and I know now why Leon started it , at least partly . 
He said afterward it was the funniest sight he ever saw . 
My cheek smarted and burned . 
I could scarcely keep from feeling to learn whether it were swelling , but I wouldn't have shed a tear or raised my hand for anything you could offer . 
Recess was coming and I didn't know what to do . 
If I went to the playground , all of them would tease me and if I sat at my desk Miss Amelia would have another chance at me . 
That was too much to risk , so I followed the others outdoors , and oh joy ! there came Laddie down the road . 
He set me on one of the posts of the hitching rack before the church , and with my arms around his neck , I sobbed out the whole story . 
She didn't understand , said Laddie quietly . 
You stay here until I come back . 
I'll go explain to her about the birds . 
Perhaps she hasn't watched them as closely as you have . 
Recess was over before he returned . 
He had wet his handkerchief at the water bucket , and now he bathed my face and eyes , straightened my hair with his pocket comb , and began unlacing my shoes . 
What are you going to do ? I asked . 
Only the boys are barefoot . 
You are excused , answered Laddie . 
Three fourths of the day is enough to begin on . 
Miss Amelia says you may come with me . 
Where are you going ? Laddie was stripping off my stockings as he looked into my eyes , and smiled a peculiar little smile . 
Oh Laddie ! I cried . 
Will you take me ? Honest ! He laughed again and then he rubbed my feet . 
Poor abused feet , he said . 
Sometimes I wish shoes had never been invented . 
They feel pretty good when there's ice . 
So they do ! said Laddie . 
Then we turned and started straight toward our Big Woods . 
I could scarcely keep on the ground . 
How are the others getting along ? asked Laddie . 
She's cross as two sticks , I told him . 
Johnny Hood hasn't shot one paper wad , and Leon hadn't done a thing until he laughed about the birds , and I guess he did that to make her forget me . 
I didn't suppose the boy thought that far . 
Oh , you never can tell by looking at him , how far Leon is thinking , I said . 
That's so , too , said Laddie . 
Are your feet comfortable now ? Yes , but Laddie , isn't my face marked ? I'm afraid it is a little , said Laddie . 
We'll bathe it again at the creek . 
We must get it fixed so mother won't notice . 
What will the Princess think ? That you fell , perhaps , said Laddie . 
Do the tears show ? Not at all . 
We washed them all away . 
Did I do wrong , Laddie ? Yes , I think you did . 
But it wasn't true , what she said . 
We had reached the fence of the Big Woods . 
He lifted me to the top rail and explained , while I combed his waving hair with my fingers . 
She didn't strike you because what you said was not so , for it was . 
She knew instantly you were right , if she knows anything at all about outdoors . 
This is what made her angry it is her first day . 
She wanted to make a good impression on her pupils , to arouse their interest , and awaken their respect . 
When you spoke , all of them knew you were right , and she was wrong that made her ridiculous . 
Can't you see how it made her look and feel ? I didn't notice how she looked , but from the way she hit me , you could tell she felt bad enough . 
She surely did , said Laddie , kissing my cheek softly . 
Then she could have corrected herself at some convenient time and kept her dignity . 
Must I ask her pardon ? What you should do , is to put yourself in Miss Amelia's place and try to understand how she felt . 
Then if you think you wouldn't have liked any one to do to you what you did to her , you'll know . 
I hugged Laddie tight and thought fast there was no need to think long to see how it was . 
I got to tell her I was wrong , I said . 
Now let's go to the Enchanted Wood and see if we can find the Queen's daughter . 
All right ! said Laddie . 
He leaped the fence , swung me over , and started toward the pawpaw thicket . 
He didn't do much going around . 
He crashed through and over and soon he began whistling the loveliest little dancy tune . 
It made your head whirl , and your toes tingle , and you knew it was singing that way in his heart , and he was just letting out the music . 
That was why it made you want to dance and whirl it was so alive . 
But that wasn't the way in an Enchanted Wood . 
Laddie ! I cautioned , keep in the path ! You'll step on the Fairies and crush a whole band with one foot . 
No wonder the Queen makes her daughter grow big when she sends her to you . 
If you make so much noise , some one will hear you , then this won't be a secret any more . 
Secrets don't agree with me . 
I'm too big , and broad , and too much of a man , to go creeping through the woods with a secret . 
I prefer to print it on a banner and ride up the road waving it . 
Like , A youth who bore mid snow and ice , A banner with a strange device , I said . 
That would be a banner with a strange device , laughest Laddie . 
But , yes something like ! Have you told the Princess ? I have ! Laddie fairly shouted it . 
Docs SHE like secrets ? No more than I do ! Then why ? There you go ! said Laddie . 
Zeus , but the woman is beginning to measle out all over you ! You know as well as any one that there's something wrong at her house . 
I don't know what it is I can't even make a sensible guess as yet , but it's worse than the neighbours think . 
It's something that keeps a cultured gentleman and scholar raging up and down the roads and over the country like a madman . 
It shuts a white faced , lovely , little woman from her neighbours , but I have passed her walking the road at night with both hands pressed against her heart . 
Would it trouble them for her to know you , Laddie ? So long as they don't and won't become acquainted with me , or any one , of course it would . 
Can't you force them to know you ? That I can ! said Laddie . 
For all I know , she is merely using me to help pass a lonely hour . 
You see , people reared in England have ideas of class , that two or three generations spent here wash out . 
The Princess and her family are of the unwashed British . 
Father's people have been here long enough to judge a man on his own merits . 
Oh Laddie ! Precisely ! What are you going to do ? That I must find out . 
When it will make so much trouble , why not forget her , and go on like you did before she came ? Then , all of us were happy . 
Now , it makes me shiver to think what will happen . 
Me too , said Laddie . 
But look here , Little Sister , right in my face . 
Will you ever forget the Princess ? Never ! Then how can you ask me to ? I didn't mean forget her , exactly . 
I meant not come here and do things that will make every one unhappy . 
One minute , Chick a Biddy , said Laddie . 
Sometimes he called me that , when he loved me the very most of all . 
I don't believe any one except me ever heard him do it . 
Let me ask you this does our father love our mother ? Love her ? I cried . 
Why he just loves her to death ! He turns so white , and he suffers so , when her pain is the worst . 
Not with the Princess ! Now , can I forget her ? Can I keep away from even the chance to pass her on the road ? No , I said . 
No , you can't , Laddie . 
But can you ever make her love you ? It takes time to find that out , said Laddie . 
Can't you make her understand that God is not a myth ? I'm none too sure what I believe myself , said Laddie . 
Not that there is no God I don't mean that but I surely don't believe all father's teachings . 
If you believe God , do other little things matter , Laddie ? I think not , said Laddie , else Heaven would be all Methodists . 
As for the Princess , all she has heard in her life has been against there being a God . 
Now , she is learning something on the other side . 
After a while she can judge for herself . 
It is for us , who profess to be a Christian family , to prove to her why we believe in God , and what He does for us . 
But I almost made her do it . 
I don't believe she ever would alone , Laddie , or at least not for a long time yet . 
I saw that , and understood it perfectly , said Laddie . 
Thank you , Little Sister . 
He picked me up and hugged me tight . 
If it is with you about the Princess as it is with father and mother , why I do know . 
All right ! Here we are ! said Laddie . 
He parted the willows and we stepped on the Magic Carpet , and that minute the Magic worked . 
I forgot every awful , solemn , troublous thing we had been talking about , and looked around while Laddie knelt and hunted for a letter , and there was none . 
That meant the Princess was coming , so we sat on the throne to wait . 
We hadn't remembered to bathe my cheek , we had been so busy when we passed the water , and I doubt if we were thinking much then . 
Brown as the wood floor was her dress , and cardinal flowers blazed on her breast , and the same colour showed on her cheeks and lips . 
Her eyes were like Laddie's for brightness , and she was breathing the same way . 
I thought sure there was going to be something to remember a lifetime I was so excited I couldn't stand still . 
Before it could happen Laddie went and said it was a beautiful day , and she said it didn't show in the woods , but the pastures needed rain . 
Well if I ever ! I sank on the throne and sat there . 
They went on talking like that , until it was too dull to bear , so I slipped out and wandered away to see what I could find . 
After a while she came to this Thou are mated with a clown , And the grossness of his nature , will have weight to bear thee down . 
Laddie threw back his head , and how he laughed ! The Princess put down the book and looked at him so surprised . 
Are you reading that to me because you think it appropriate ? asked Laddie . 
I am reading it because it is conceded to be one of the most beautiful poems ever written , said the Princess . 
You knew when you began that you would come to those lines . 
I never even thought of such a thing . 
But you knew that is how your father would regard any relationship , friendly or deeper , with me ! I cannot possibly be held responsible for what my father thinks . 
It is natural that you should think alike . 
Not necessarily ! You told me recently that you didn't agree with your father on many subjects . 
My consenting to know and to spend a friendly hour with you here is sufficient answer . 
I have not found the slightest fault with your manners . 
I have seen no suspicion of grossness' about you . 
What has happened , Laddie ? This is not like you . 
Laddie sat straight and studied the beech branches . 
Father said beech trees didn't amount to much but I first learned all about them from that one , and what it taught me made me almost worship them always . 
Only he was studying so deeply you could almost feel what was in his mind , and it was not about the brook at all , even if one ran close . 
Not so bad ! he said . 
Rather a lowdown , common thing , a clod , don't you think ? And a clown' ! And gross' on top of that ! What can you mean ? asked the Princess . 
Since you don't seem to share the estimate of me , I believe I'll tell you , said Laddie . 
The other day I was driving from the gravel pit with a very heavy load . 
The road was wide and level on either side . 
A man came toward me on horseback . 
The man took half the road , and kept it until the nose of his horse touched one of the team I was driving . 
The law gives me this road when I am heavily loaded , and you are on foot or horseback . 
What did he do ? asked the Princess . 
And from the way she looked I just knew she guessed the man was the same one I thought of . 
He raised his whip to strike my horse , said Laddie . 
Ah , surely ! said the Princess . 
Always an arm raised to strike . 
And you , Man ? What did you do ? she cried eagerly . 
I stood on my load , suddenly , said Laddie , and I called Hold one minute ! And he ? breathed the Princess . 
Something made him pause with his arm still raised . 
I said to him You must not strike my horse . 
It never has been struck , and it can't defend itself . 
If you want to come a few steps farther and tackle me , come ahead ! I can take it or return it , as I choose . 
Go on ! said the Princess . 
That's all , said Laddie , or at least almost all . 
Did he strike ? He did not . 
What you read made me think of it , that is all . 
The Princess stared into the beech branches for a time and then she said I will ask your pardon for him . 
He always had a domineering temper , and trouble he had lately has almost driven him mad he is scarcely responsible at times . 
I hesitate about making him angry . 
I think perhaps , said Laddie , I would have done myself credit if I had recognized that , and given him the road , when he made a point of claiming it . 
Indeed no ! cried the Princess . 
To be beaten at the game he started was exactly what he needed . 
If you had turned from his way , he would have considered you a clod all his life . 
Since you made him go around , it may possibly dawn on him that you are a man . 
You did the very best thing . 
Then she began to laugh , and how she did laugh . 
I would give my allowance for a quarter to have seen it , she cried . 
I must hurry home and tell mother . 
Does your mother know about me ? he demanded . 
Does she know that you come here ? The Princess arose and stood very tall and straight . 
You may beg my pardon or cease to know me , she said . 
Whatever led you to suppose that I would know or meet you without my mother's knowledge ? Then she started toward the entrance . 
One minute ! cried Laddie . 
A leap carried him to her side . 
He caught her hands and held them tight , and looked straight into her eyes . 
Then he kissed her hands over and over . 
I thought from the look on her face he might have kissed her cheek if he had dared risk it but he didn't seem to notice . 
Then she stooped and kissed me , and turned toward home , while Laddie and I crossed the woods to the west road , and went back past the schoolhouse . 
I was so tired Laddie tied the strings together and hung my shoes across his shoulders and took me by the arm the last mile . 
All of them were at home when we got there , and Miss Amelia came to the gate to meet us . 
She was mealy mouthed and good as pie , not at all as I had supposed she would be . 
I wonder what Laddie said to her . 
But then he always could manage things for every one . 
That set me to wondering if by any possible means he could fix them for himself . 
I sat there until the supper bell rang , and then I washed and reached the table last . 
The next morning Miss Amelia finished the chapter that made two for our family . 
Father always read one before breakfast no wonder I knew the Bible quite well then we sang a song , and she made a stiff , little prayer . 
I had my doubts about her prayers she was on no such terms with the Lord as my father . 
I didn't feel any too good toward her , but when the blood of the Crusaders was in the veins , right must be done even if it took a struggle . 
I had to live up to those little gold shells on the trinket . 
Father said they knew I was coming down the line , so they put on a bird for me but I told him I would be worthy of the shells too . 
This took about as hard a fight for me as any Crusade would for a big , trained soldier . 
I had been wrong , Laddie had made me see that . 
So I held up my hand , and Miss Amelia saw me as she picked up Ray's arithmetic . 
What is it ? I held to the desk to brace myself , and tried twice before I could raise my voice so that she heard . 
Please , Miss Amelia , I said , I was wrong about the birds yesterday . 
The room was so still you could hear the others breathing . 
Miss Amelia picked up the ruler and started toward me . 
Possibly I raised my hands . 
The last glimpse I had of her in the midst of all my trouble made me think of Sabethany Perkins . 
Sabethany died , and they buried her at the foot of the hill in our graveyard before I could remember . 
When they moved away , they missed her so , they decided to come back and take her along . 
The men were at work , and Leon and I went to see what was going on . 
They told us , and said we had better go away , because possibly things might happen that children would sleep better not to see . 
Strange how a thing like that makes you bound you will see . 
We went and sat on the fence and waited . 
Soon they reached Sabethany , but they could not seem to get her out . 
They tried , and tried , and at last they sent for more men . 
It took nine of them to bring her to the surface . 
What little wood was left , they laid back to see what made her so fearfully heavy , and there she was turned to solid stone . 
They couldn't chip a piece off her with the shovel . 
When Gabriel blows his trumpet , and the dead arise and come forth , what on earth will they do with Sabethany ? I gasped . 
He acted sick and I felt that way so we went , but the last glimpse of Sabethany remained with me . 
As my head went down that day , I saw that Miss Amelia looked exactly like her . 
You would have needed a pick ax or a crowbar to flake off even a tiny speck of her . 
Miss Amelia's arm dropped and she glared at me . 
To laugh , of all things ! And then , of course , every one else just yelled . 
I was so mortified I dropped my head again and began to cry as I never would if she'd hit me . 
Don't feel badly ! said Miss Amelia . 
Certainly , I'll forgive you . 
I see you had no intention of giving offense , so none is taken . 
Get out your book and study hard on another lesson . 
I supposed I'd have to do the same one over , but I might take a new one . 
I was either getting along fast , or Miss Amelia had her fill of birds . 
As I studied I felt better , and when Miss Amelia came to hear me she was good as gold . 
But he never had taken out the window in the wall . 
I didn't care what she had . 
I just wanted to get ahead of her and see before she was ready , to pay her for beating me . 
I knew what she had , and I meant to tell her , and walk away with my nose in the air when she offered to show me but this was different . 
I was wild to see what was going on because the Princess was there . 
The room was small , and the big cherry four poster was very large , and all of them were talking , so no one paid the slightest attention to me . 
Mother sat in the big rocking chair , with Sally on one of its arms , leaning against her shoulder . 
Shelley and May and the sewing woman were crowded between the wall and the footboard , and the others lined against the wall . 
The bed was heaped in a tumble of everything a woman ever wore . 
Seemed to me there was more stuff there than all the rest of us had , put together . 
The working dresses and aprons had been made on the machine , but there were heaps and stacks of hand made underclothes . 
The Princess stood beside the bed . 
A funny little tight hat like a man's and a riding whip lay on a chair close by . 
I couldn't see what she wore her usual riding clothes probably for she had a nip in each shoulder of a dress she was holding to her chin and looking down at . 
After all , I hadn't seen everything ! Never before or since have I seen a lovelier dress than that . 
It was what always had been wrapped in the sheet on the foot of the bed and I hadn't got a peep at it . 
This was a wedding dress . 
You didn't need any one to tell you . 
The Princess had as much red as I ever had seen in her cheeks , her eyes were bright , and she was half laughing and half crying . 
Oh you lucky , lucky girl ! she was saying . 
The Princess lifted it and set it down softly . 
Oh look ! she cried . 
The skirt was so wide it almost filled the room . 
Every inch of that dress was lined with soft , white silk . 
There was exquisite lace made into a flat collar around the neck , and ruffled from sight up the inside of the wide sleeves . 
The finish was something you never saw anything like before . 
It was a trimming made of white and yellow beads . 
That went around the neck , the outside of the sleeves , and in a pattern like a big letter V all the way around the skirt . 
Sally , and mother , and all of them had smiled such wide smiles for so long , their faces looked almost as set as Sabethany's , but of course far different . 
Being dead was one thing , getting ready for a wedding another . 
It was not put on either , for there stood the dress , shimmering like the inside of a pearl lined shell , white as a lily , and the tinkly gold fringe . 
No one COULD have said enough about it , so no matter what the Princess said , it had to be all right . 
Do please show me the rest , begged the Princess . 
I know there are slippers and a bonnet ! Sally just oozed pride . 
These she touched softly , I'm not quite sure about the leaves , she said . 
The Princess had the bonnet , turning and tilting it . 
Quite perfect ! You need that touch of colour , and it blends with everything . 
How I envy you ! Oh why doesn't some one ask me , so I can have things like these ? I think your brother is a genius . 
I'm going to ride to Westchester tomorrow and give him an order to fill for me the next time he goes to the city . 
No one shows me such fabrics when I go , and Aunt Beatrice sends nothing from London I like nearly so well . 
Oh ! Oh ! She was on her knees now , lifting the skirt to set under little white satin slippers with gold buckles , and white bead buttons . 
When she had them arranged to suit her , she sat on the floor and kept straight on saying the things my mother and sisters seemed crazy to hear . 
It belongs with these things and I have no use for it . 
May I ? Please do ! I'll use it for the thing I borrow . 
But I mean it to be a gift , said the Princess . 
It was made to go with these lace mitts and satin slippers . 
You must take it ! Thank you very much , said Sally . 
If you really want me to have it , of course I'd love to . 
I'll bring it to morrow , promised the Princess . 
And I wish you'd let me try a way I know to dress hair for a wedding . 
You're kind , I'm sure , said Sally . 
I shan't touch it , said the Princess , studying Sally's face . 
But don't forget to wear something blue , and something borrowed for luck , and oh do please put on one of my garters ! Well for mercy sake ! cried my mother . 
Why ? So some one will propose to me before the year is out , laughed the Princess . 
When the right man comes I'll go half the mile to meet him ? you may be sure of that won't I , Mrs. Stanton ? the Princess turned to mother . 
I have known girls who went even farther , said my mother rather dryly . 
I draw the line at half , laughed the Princess . 
Now I must go I have been so long my people will be wondering what I'm doing . 
At the gate stood Laddie as he had come from the field . 
When he heard us coming he opened the gate , went to the rack , untied the Princess' horse and led it beside the mounting block . 
As she came toward him , he took off his hat and pitched it over the fence on the grass . 
Miss Pryor , allow me to make you acquainted with my son , said mother . 
I felt as if I would blow up . 
I couldn't keep my eyes from turning toward the Princess . 
Gee ! I could have saved my feelings . 
She made mother the prettiest little courtsey I ever set eyes on , and then turned and made a deeper one to Laddie . 
I met your son in one of the village stores some time ago , she said . 
Laddie bowed from the waist , and put the reins in her fingers all in one movement . 
He caught the glance she gave him too I could almost feel it like a band passing between them . 
Then she called a laughing good bye to all of us at once , and showed us how to ride right , as she flashed toward the Little Hill . 
That was riding , you may believe , and mother sighed as she watched her . 
If I were a girl again , she said , I would ride as well as that , or I'd never mount a horse . 
She's been trained from her cradle , and her father deals in horses . 
Half the battle in riding is a thoroughbred , said Laddie . 
No such horse as that ever stepped these roads before . 
And no such girl ever travelled them , said my mother , folding her hands one over the other on top of a post of the hitching rack . 
I must say I don't know how this is coming out , and it troubles me . 
Why , what's up ? asked Laddie , covering her hands with his and looking her in the eyes . 
Just this , said my mother . 
She's more beautiful of face and form than God ought to allow any woman to be , in mercy to the men who will be forced to meet her . 
Her speech is highly cultured . 
Her manners are perfect , and that is a big and unusual thing in a girl of her age . 
Every word she said , every move she made to day , was exactly as I would have been proud to hear , and to see a daughter of mine speak and move . 
With you youngsters it is different . 
You'll find her captivating , and you may let her ways sway you without even knowing it . 
It seems to me a craven way . 
I want no child of mine under its influence , or in contact with it . 
But when your time comes , if you said just those things to hers and won her , what a triumph , little mother ! If ! answered mother . 
Humph ! said my mother . 
And it is for you I fear . 
If a young man is given the slightest encouragement by a girl like that , even his God can't always hold him and you never have made a confession of faith , Laddie . 
It is you she will be most likely to captivate . 
Did Sally say you might come here ? I asked . 
No , said Miss Amelia , but I've been so crazy to see I just slipped in to take a peep when I noticed the open door . 
I didn't say what I would do , but I didn't intend to . 
What are you crying about ? I inquired . 
Ah , I too have known love , sobbed Miss Amelia . 
Once I made a wedding dress , and expected to be a happy bride . 
He died ! sobbed Miss Amelia . 
Right then I heard Sally coming , so I grabbed Miss Amelia and dragged her under the fourposter , where I always hid when caught doing something I shouldn't . 
Well upon my soul ! she cried , and sat flat on the floor , holding the ruffle , peering in . 
HE DIED ! I told Sally as pathetically as ever I could . 
Sally dropped the ruffle instantly , but I saw her knees shake against the floor . 
After a while she lifted the curtain and offered Miss Amelia her hand . 
I was leaving my dress to show you before putting it away , she said . 
I didn't believe it but that was what she said . 
Maybe it was an impulse . 
Mother always said Sally was a creature of impulse . 
When she took off her flannel petticoat and gave it to poor little half frozen Annie Hasty , that was a good impulse , but it sent Sally to bed for a week . 
That was a good impulse she had then , for she asked Miss Amelia to help her straighten the room , and of course that meant to fold and put away wedding things . 
Any woman would have been wild to do that . 
Miss Amelia wiped her eyes , and soon laughed and was just beaming . 
I wondered what her folks cooked at home . 
After supper Peter came , and the instant I saw him I thought of something , and it was such a teasing thought I followed around and watched him harder every minute . 
At last he noticed me , and put his arms around me . 
Well , what is it , Little Sister ? he asked . 
I did wish he would quit that . 
No one really had a right to call me that , except Laddie . 
I was thinking about that so hard , I didn't answer , and he asked again . 
I have seen Sally's wedding dress , I told him . 
But that's no reason why you should stare at me . 
That's just exactly the reason , I answered . 
I was trying to see what in the world there is about you to be worth a dress like that . 
The buttons were on her slippers her shoes laced . 
But it showed a humble spirit in Peter . 
Not that I care for humble spirits . 
I am sure the Crusaders didn't have them . 
I don't believe Laddie would lace even the Princess' shoes , at least not to make a steady business of it . 
But maybe Peter and Sally had an agreement to help each other . 
She was always fixing his tie , and straightening his hair . 
Maybe that was an impulse , though , and mother said Sally would get over being so impulsive when she cut her eye teeth . 
When they began arranging the house for the wedding , it could be seen that they had been expecting it , and getting ready for a long time . 
From all the closets , shelves and chests poured heaps of new things . 
Mother had some window blinds that Winfield had brought her from New York in the spring , and she had laid them away no one knew why , then . 
When mother was ready to put them up , father had a busy day and couldn't help her , and she was really provoked . 
When they finally got ready to hang the blinds no one knew how they went . 
Mother had neglected to ask Winfield on which side the rose belonged . 
Father said from the way the roll ran , it went inside . 
Mother said they were rolled that way to protect the roses , and that didn't prove anything . 
Laddie said he would jump on a horse and ride round the section , and see how Hannah Dover had hers , and exactly opposite would be right . 
Everyone laughed , but no one thought he meant it . 
Mother had father hold one against the window , and she stepped outside to see if she could tell from there . 
When she came in she said the flower looked mighty pretty , and she guessed that was the way , so father started hanging them . 
He had only two up when Laddie came racing down the Big Hill bareback , calling for him to stop . 
I tell you that's not right , mother ! he said as he hurried in . 
But I went outside and father held one , and it looked real pretty , said mother . 
One ! Yes ! said Laddie . 
And look here ! Laddie picked up a blind . 
See this plain back ? It's double coated like a glaze . 
That is so the sun shining through glass won't fade it . 
The flowers would be gone in a week . 
They belong inside , mother , sure as you live . 
Then when the blinds are rolled to the middle sash in the daytime no one can see them , wailed mother , who was wild about pink roses . 
But at night , when they are down , you can put the curtains back enough to let the roses show , and think how pretty they will look then . 
Laddie is right ! said father , climbing on the barrel to take down the ones he had fixed . 
What do you think , girls ? asked mother . 
I think the Princess is coming down the Little Hill , said Shelley . 
Hurry , father ! Take them down before she sees ! I'm sure they're wrong . 
Father got one all right , but tore the corner of the other . 
Mother scolded him dreadfully cross , and he was so flustered he forgot about being on the barrel , so he stepped back the same as on the floor , and fell crashing . 
He might have broken some of his bones , if Laddie hadn't seen and caught him . 
If you are SURE the flowers go inside , fix one before she comes ! cried mother . 
She came to bring Sally the handkerchief , and it was the loveliest one any of us ever had seen . 
There was a little patch in the middle about four inches square , and around it a wide ruffle of dainty lace . 
It was made to carry in a hand covered with white lace mitts , when you were wearing a wedding gown of silver silk , lined with white . 
Of course it wouldn't have been the slightest use for a funeral or with a cold in your head . 
After she had talked a few minutes she noticed the blinds going up . 
Laddie , in a front window , waved to her from the barrel . 
She laughed and answered with her whip , and then she laughed again . 
Do you know , she said , there is the funniest thing at Dovers' . 
I rode past on the way to Groveville this morning and they have some blinds like those you are putting up . 
Indeed ? inquired my mother . 
Winfield sent us these from New York in the spring , but I thought the hot summer sun would fade them , so I saved them until the fall cleaning . 
The wedding coming on makes us a little early but Well , they may not be exactly the same , said the Princess . 
I only saw from the highway . 
She meant road there were many things she said differently . 
Have yours big pink roses and silver scrolls inside ? Yes , said mother . 
The Princess bubbled until it made you think one of those yellow oriole birds had perched on her saddle . 
That poor woman has gone and put hers up wrong side out . 
The effect of all those big pink roses on her white house front is most amusing . 
It looks as if the house were covered with a particularly gaudy piece of comfort calico . 
Only fancy ! She laughed again and rode away . 
Mother came in just gasping . 
Well , for all His mercies , large and small , the Lord be praised ! she cried piously , as she dropped into the big rocking chair . 
THAT is what I consider escaping by the skin of your teeth ! Then father and Laddie laughed , and said they thought so too . 
Every so far on the silver there was a little pink moss rose having green leaves . 
The carpet was plum red and green in wide stripes , and the lace curtains were freshly washed , snowy , and touched the floor . 
The big rocker , the straight backed chairs , and the sofa were beautiful red mahogany wood , and the seats shining haircloth . 
If no one happened to be looking , you could sit on a sofa arm , stick your feet out and shoot off like riding down a haystack the landing was much better . 
On the sofa you bounced two feet high the first time one , the second and a little way the third . 
On the haystack , maybe you hit a soft spot , and maybe you struck a rock . 
THEN if you struck a rock , you were still , quite a while . 
But you never dared let mother see you on the sofa , I mean she didn't care about the haystack . 
There were pictures in oval black frames having fancy edges , and a whatnot where all our Christmas and birthday gifts , almost too dainty to handle , were kept . 
You fairly held your breath when you looked at the nest of spun green glass , with the white dove in it , that George Washington Mitchell gave to Shelley . 
Of course a dove's nest was never deep , and round , and green , and the bird didn't have red eyes and a black bill . 
I thought whoever could blow glass as beautifully as that , might just as easy have made it right while he was at it but anyway , it was pretty . 
Laddie asked Sally if she and Peter were going to have the ceremony performed while they sat on the sofa . 
They had done all their courting there , even on hot summer days but I supposed that was because Sally didn't want to be seen fixing Peter's tie until she was ready . 
She made no bones about it then . 
She fixed it whenever she pleased likewise he held her hand . 
Shelley said that was disgusting , and you wouldn't catch her . 
Leon said he bet a dollar he would and I said if he knew he'd get beaten as I did , I bet two dollars he wouldn't tell what he saw . 
The mantel was white , with vases of the lovely grasses that grew beside the stream at the foot of the Big Hill . 
Mother gathered the fanciest every fall , dried them , and dipped them in melted alum coloured with copperas , aniline , and indigo . 
Then she took bunches of the colours that went together best and made bouquets for the big vases . 
They were pretty in the daytime , but at night you could watch them sparkle and shimmer forever . 
I always thought the sitting room was nicer than the parlour . 
The woodwork was white enamel there too , but the bureau and chairs were just cherry and not too precious to use . 
They were every bit as pretty . 
The mantel was much larger . 
I could stand up in the fireplace , and it took two men to put on an everyday log , four the Christmas one . 
On each side were the book shelves above , and the linen closets below . 
The mantel set between these , and mother always used the biggest , most gorgeous bouquets there , because she had so much room . 
The hearth was a slab of stone that came far into the room . 
We could sit on it and crack nuts , roast apples , chestnuts , and warm our cider , then sweep all the muss we made into the fire . 
The wall paper was white and pale pink in stripes , and on the pink were little handled baskets filled with tiny flowers of different colours . 
We sewed the rags for the carpet ourselves , and it was the prettiest thing . 
One stripe was wide , all gray , brown , and dull colours , and the other was pink . 
There were green blinds and lace curtains here also , and nice braided rugs that all of us worked on of winter evenings . 
Everything got spicker and spanner each day . 
The dining room wall paper had a broad stripe of rich cream with pink cabbage roses scattered over it and a narrow pink stripe , while the woodwork was something perfectly marvellous . 
I didn't know what kind of wood it was , but a man who could turn his hand to anything , painted it . 
First , he put on a pale yellow coat and let it dry . 
You have to see a thing like that to understand how wonderful it is . 
He sent her a ring made of gold he dug himself . 
She always kept the ring in a bottle in her bureau , and she meant to wear it at the wedding , with her new silk dress . 
I had a new dress too . 
I don't know how they got everything done . 
All of them worked , until the last few days they were perfect cross patches . 
When they couldn't find another thing indoors to scour , they began on the yard , orchard , barn and road . 
Mother even had Leon stack the wood pile straighter . 
He had to pull every ragweed on each side of the road as far as our land reached , and lay every rail straight in the fences . 
May and I weeded the flowerbeds , picked all the ripe seed , and pulled up and burned all the stalks that were done blooming . 
Then they began to talk about arrangements for the ceremony , whether we should have our regular minister , or Presiding Elder Lemon , and what people they were going to invite . 
She had been visiting Peter's people , and we planned a lot while she was away . 
What's going on here ? she asked , standing in the doorway , dangling her bonnet by the ties . 
Her hair had blown out in little curls around her face from riding , her cheeks were so pink , and her eyes so bright . 
We were talking about having the ceremony in the church , so every one can be comfortably seated , and see and hear well , answered mother . 
Sally straightened up and began jerking the roses on her bonnet far too roughly for artificial flowers . 
Perhaps I surprised you with that artificial word , but I can spell and define it it's easy divided into syllables . 
Goodness knows , I have seen enough flowers made from the hair of the dead , wax , and paper , where you get the shape , but the colour never is right . 
These of Sally's were much too bright , but they were better than the ones made at our house . 
Hers were of cloth and bought at a store . 
Suppose you cease such reckless talk , and explain to us exactly what it is that you do want . 
Sally gave her bonnet an awful jerk . 
I have just loved this house ever since it was built , she said , and I've had as good times here as any girl ever had . 
If any one thinks I'm so very anxious to leave it , and you , and mother , and all the others , why it's a big mistake . 
I think That will do ! said father , wiping his eyes . 
That will do , Sally ! Your mother and I have got a pretty clear understanding of how you feel , now . 
Don't excite yourself ! Your wedding shan't be used to pay off our scores . 
First she put down all of our family , even many away in Ohio , and all of Peter's , and then his friends , and hers . 
Let her , if she can ! said Sally calmly . 
Then she began on our neighbourhood , thinking out loud and writing what she thought . 
I never had noticed that before . 
Sally went straight on and at last she came to Freshetts . 
I am going to have all of them , too , she said . 
If we ask her , then the others will . 
That described Isaac to the last tatter , only he couldn't waste money he never had any . 
Once I asked father what he thought Isaac would do with it , if by some unforeseen working of Divine Providence , he got ten dollars . 
Father said he could tell me exactly , because Isaac once sold some timber and had a hundred all at once . 
He went straight to town and bought Mandy a red silk dress and a brass breastpin , when she had no shoes . 
He got the children an organ , when they were hungry and himself a plug hat . 
Mandy and the children cried because he forgot candy and oranges until the last cent was gone . 
Father said the only time Isaac ever worked since he knew him was when he saw how the hat looked with his rags . 
He actually helped the men fell the trees until he got enough to buy a suit , the remains of which he still wore on Sunday . 
I asked father why he didn't wear the hat too , and father said the loss of that hat was a blow , from which Isaac never had recovered . 
Mother promised , and father sat and looked on and pulled his lower lip until his ears almost wiggled . 
She wanted all our family and Peter's , and only a few very close friends , but it was enough to fill the room . 
Elizabeth and Lucy came home , and every one began to work . 
They killed and killed , and Sarah Hood , Amanda Deam , and Mrs. Freshett picked and picked . 
I'll bet a dollar we get something this time besides ribs and neck , said Leon . 
How do you suppose thigh and breast would taste ? I was always crazy to try the tail , I said . 
Much chance you got , sniggered Leon . 
Gee , how mother scolded him after the preacher had gone ! You notice father hasn't asked that since . 
You keep your eyes on me . 
When the wedding gets going good , you watch me , and slip out . 
That's all ! I'll be fixed to do the rest . 
But mind this , get out when I do . 
All right , I promised . 
They must have wakened about four o'clock on the wedding day it wasn't really light when I got up . 
Every mantel and table and bureau was covered with flowers , and you could have smelled the kitchen a mile away , I know . 
The dining table was set for the wedding party , our father and mother , and Peter's , and the others had to wait . 
You couldn't have laid the flat of your hand on that table anywhere , it was so covered with things to eat . 
Everything was ready by the time it should have been . 
I had watched them until I was tired , when Sally came through the room where I was , and she said I might come along upstairs and see her dressed . 
When we reached the door I wondered where she would put me , but she pushed clothing together on a bed , and helped me up , and that was great fun . 
Well , talk about carriages ! No one ever had seen THAT one before . 
And such horses ! The funny 'orse , 'ouse man who made the Pryor garden was driving . 
He stopped at the gate , got out and opened a door , and the Princess' father stepped down , tall and straight , all in shiny black . 
He turned around and held out his hand , bowing double , and the Princess laid her hand in his and stepped out too . 
He walked with her to the gate , made another bow , kissed her hand , and stepped back , and she came down the walk alone . 
He got in the carriage , the man closed the door , and they drove away . 
Sally must have arranged before that the Princess was to come early , for she came straight upstairs . 
She wore a soft white silk dress with big faded pink roses in it , and her hair was fastened at each ear with a bunch of little pink roses . 
When Bess Kuntz prinked so long she made every one disgusted , the Princess said Oh save your trouble . 
No one will look at you when there's a bride in the house . 
They put a blue ribbon on Sally's stays for luck , and she borrowed Peter's sister Mary's comb to hold her back hair . 
They had the most fun , and when she was all ready except her dress they went away , and Sally stood in the middle of the room trembling a little . 
Outside you could hear carriage wheels rolling , the beat of horses' hoofs , and voices crying greetings . 
There was a sound of revelry , by day . 
She was dainty and pretty enough to have been a bride herself . 
Then she stepped to the door , and Peter , all shining and new , came in . 
I never liked to look at him very well because something had happened , and he had only one eye . 
He married those two people right there in the bedroom , all but about three words at the end . 
I heard and saw every bit of it . 
Then Sally said it was time for me to go to mother , but she followed me into the boys' room and shut the door . 
She laughed a breathless little catchy sort of laugh and said That's exactly what I do want . 
You didn't even want me , to begin with , I reminded her . 
There isn't a doubt but whoever told you that , could have been in better business , said Sally , angry like . 
I was much younger then , and there were many things I didn't understand , and it wasn't you I didn't want it was just no baby at all . 
I wouldn't have wanted a boy , or any other girl a bit more . 
I foolishly thought we had children enough in this house . 
I could just feel a regular beller coming in my throat . 
I was only fooling to pay you up . 
I meant all the time to kiss you good bye when the others did . 
It was like camp meeting . 
You could see the yard full through the windows . 
Just as I was thinking I'd go back to the boys' room , and from there into the garret , and down the back stairway , Laddie went and saw me . 
He came over , led me to the parlour door , put me inside , and there mother took my hand and held me tight , and I couldn't see Leon anywhere . 
I was caught , but they didn't have him . 
Mother never hung on as she did that day . 
I tried and tried to pull away , and she held tight . 
If it hadn't grown so solemn my mother sprung a tear , I never would have made it . 
She just had to let me go to sop her face , because tears are salty , and they would turn her new brown silk front yellow . 
The minute my hand was free , I slipped between the people and looked at the parlour door . 
It was wedged full and more standing on chairs behind them . 
No one could get out there . 
I thought I would fail Leon sure , and then I remembered the parlour bedroom . 
From there I reached the back dining room door easy enough , went around to the kitchen , and called Leon softly . 
He opened the door at once and I slipped in . 
He had just got there . 
We looked all around and couldn't see where to begin at first . 
There was enough cooked food there to load two wagons . 
He went over and knelt before the oven , while I followed and held open the case . 
Leon stirred the heap and piled four or five tails in the case . 
He put in six breasts . 
Then we took some of everything that wasn't too runny . 
Before very long , they began calling us , and called , and called . 
We hadn't an idea what they wanted , so we ate away . 
We heard them first while I was holding over a back to let Leon taste kidney , and it made him blink when he got it good . 
Well my soul ! he said . 
No wonder father didn't want to feed that to another man when mother isn't very well , and likes it ! No wonder ! Then he gave me a big bite of breast . 
It was sort of dry and tasteless I didn't like it . 
Why , I think neck or back beats that all to pieces ! I said in surprise . 
Fact is , they do ! said Leon . 
I guess the people who wish to choose breast , do it to get the biggest piece . 
I never had thought of it before , but of course that would be the reason . 
Allow me , Sister Stanton , said Leon , holding out a piece of thigh . 
He said that would do almost as well as the cellar , and the food would keep until to morrow . 
Leon took an apple and broke it in two , and we went in eating as if we were starving . 
If you'd only held your horses a minute , said father they were calling you to take places at the bride's table . 
Well for land's sake ! Our mouths dropped open until it's a wonder the cake and chicken didn't show , and we never said a word . 
You'll want all your horses . 
What could I ride ? If I find you a good horse and saddle will you go ? I will . 
I think it would be fine sport . 
Laddie turned and went from sight that minute . 
I took one look , ran to the Princess , and almost dragged her . 
Up raced Laddie , his face bright , his eyes snapping with fun . 
He rode Flos , was leading the Princess' horse Maud , and carrying a big bundle under his arm . 
He leaped from the saddle and fastened both horses . 
Gracious Heaven ! What have you done ? gasped the Princess . 
Brought your mount , said Laddie , quite as if he were used to going to Pryors' after the sausage grinder or the grain sacks . 
But the Princess was pale and trembling . 
She stepped so close she touched him , and he immediately got a little closer . 
You couldn't get ahead of Laddie , and he didn't seem to care who saw , and neither did she . 
Tell me exactly what occurred , she said , just as father does when he means to whale us completely . 
I rapped at the front door , said Laddie . 
And who opened it ? cried the Princess . 
Your father ! My father ? Yes , your father ! said Laddie . 
And because I was in such a hurry , I didn't wait for him to speak . 
I said Good morning , Mr. Pryor . 
I'm one of the Stanton boys , and I came for Miss Pryor's mount and habit . 
All the young people who are on horseback are going to ride an escort to the village , around my sister's bridal carriage , and Miss Pryor thinks she would enjoy going . 
Please excuse such haste , but we only this minute made the plan , and the train won't wait . 
And he ? He said Surely ! Hold one minute . 
He asked Did Miss Pryor say whether she preferred to ride home , or shall I escort her in the carriage ? She did not , I answered . 
The plan was so sudden she had no time to think that far . 
But since she will have her horse and habit , why not allow my father to escort her ? So you see , I'm going to take you home , exulted Laddie . 
But you told him your FATHER , said the Princess . 
Suppose he sets the dogs on you ! You know he keeps two dreadful ones . 
Beaucheous Lady , he said , I have fed those same dogs and rubbed their ears so many nights lately , he'll get the surprise of his life if he tries that . 
The Princess drew away and stared at Laddie the funniest . 
On my life ! she said at last . 
Well for a country clod ! Then she turned with the habit bundle , and ran into the house . 
Father and mother came from the front door arm in arm and walked to the carriage , and Sally and Peter followed . 
My , but they looked fine ! The Princess had gone to the garden and gathered flowers and lined all the children in rows down each side of the walk . 
It wasn't ME she didn't want it was just no baby . 
Then came a burst of thunder sound , as it says in Casablanca , and the horseback riders came sweeping around us , Laddie and the Princess leading . 
Sally looked just as if she had come into her own and was made for it I never did see her look so pretty , but Peter sweated and acted awful silly . 
Father had a time with the team . 
Ned and Jo became excited and just ranted . 
Ahead , Laddie and the Princess fairly tried themselves . 
She hadn't put on her hat or habit after all . 
When Laddie told her they were going to lead , she said Very well ! Then I shall go as I am . 
The dress makes no difference . 
It's the first time I've had a chance to spoil one since I left England . 
When the other girls saw what she was going to do , nearly every one of them left off their hats and riding skirts . 
Every family had saddle horses those days , and when the riders came racing up they looked like flying flowers , they were all laughing , bloom ladened , singing and calling jokes . 
Ahead , Laddie and the Princess just plain showed off . 
She said she'd starve before she'd sell it , and if her family were starving , she'd go to work and earn food for them , and keep her horse . 
Laddie's was a Kentucky thoroughbred he'd saved money for years to buy and he took a young one and trained it himself , almost like a circus horse . 
Both of them COULD ride so that day they did . 
They ran those horses neck and neck , right up the hill approaching Groveville , until they were almost from sight , then they whirled and came sweeping back fast as the wind . 
Will they break their foolish necks ? wailed mother . 
They are the handsomest couple I ever have seen in my life ! said father . 
Yes , and you two watch out , or you'll strike trouble right there , said Sally , leaning forward . 
I gave her an awful nudge . 
It made me so happy I could have screamed to see them flying away together like that . 
Well , if that girl represents trouble , said father , God knows it never before came in such charming guise . 
You can trust a man to forget his God and his immortal soul if a sufficiently beautiful woman comes along , said my mother dryly , and all of them laughed . 
She didn't mean that to be funny , though . 
You could always tell by the set of her lips and the light in her eyes . 
Just this side of Groveville we passed a man on horseback . 
He took off his hat and drew his horse to one side when Laddie and the Princess rode toward him . 
He had a big roll of papers under his arm , to show that he had been for his mail . 
Of course father and mother saw , so mother bowed , and father waved his whip as we passed . 
My heart ached for a man in trouble like that . 
I asked the Lord to preserve us from secrets we couldn't tell the neighbours ! At the station there wasn't a thing those young people didn't do . 
They tied flowers and ribbons all over Sally's satchel and trunk . 
They sowed rice as if it were seeding time in a wheatfield . 
They just smiled all the time no matter what was done to them . 
Some of it made me angry , but I suppose to be pleasant was the right way . 
Sally was strong on always doing the right thing , so she just laughed , and so did all of us . 
Going home it was wilder yet , for all of them raced and showed how they could ride . 
She was so tickled to be there , and see , and help , that mother had hard work to keep her from washing the linen that same night . 
Mother said it was a burning shame for any neighbourhood to let a woman get so starved out and lonesome she'd act that way . 
I felt sore , weepy , and tired out . 
If I ever get married I want a dress , and a wedding exactly like that , but I would like a man quite different from Peter like Laddie would suit me better . 
When he rode under the tree , I dropped from a limb into his arms , and went with him to the barn . 
When I told him mother was in bed crying like anything , he said I knew that had to come when she kept up so bravely at the station . 
Thank the Lord , she showed her breeding by holding in until she got where she had a right to cry if she pleased . 
Then I whispered for fear Leon might be around Did he set the dogs on you ? He did not , said Laddie , laughing softly . 
Did he call you names again ? He did ! said Laddie , but I started it . 
You see , when we got there , Thomas was raking the grass and he came to take the Princess' horse . 
Her father was reading on a bench under a tree . 
If my father knew anything about it , he would very much regret that company from Ohio detained him and compelled me to escort your daughter home . 
He would greatly have enjoyed the privilege , but I honestly believe that I appreciated it far more than he could . 
So I said to him Thank you very much for to day , anyway . 
I'm sure Miss Pryor has enjoyed this day , and it has been the happiest of my life one to be remembered always . 
Of course I won't come here if I am unwelcome , but I am in honour bound to tell you that I intend to meet your daughter elsewhere , whenever I possibly can . 
Oh Laddie , I wailed , now you've gone and ruined everything ! Not so bad as that , Little Sister , laughed Laddie . 
Not half so bad ! He exploded in another growl , and he shook his walking stick at me , and he said guess what he said . 
That he would kill you , I panted , clinging to him . 
Like , See the conquering hero comes ? Exactly ! laughed Laddie . 
What will mother say ? She hasn't made up her mind yet , answered Laddie . 
Do you mean ? I gasped again . 
Of course ! said Laddie . 
I wasn't going to let a girl get far ahead of me . 
The minute I knew she had told her mother , I told mine the very first chance . 
Mother knows that you feel about the Princess as father does about her ? Mother knows , answered Laddie , and so does father . 
I told both of them . 
Both of them knew ! And it hadn't made enough difference that any one living right with them every day could have told it . 
Time and work will be needed to understand grown people . 
Every one told mother for a week before the wedding that she would be sick when it was over , and sure enough she was . 
After a while she opened her eyes and looked at me , and I scarcely knew her . 
She smiled the bravest she could and said Sorry for mother , dear ? I nodded . 
Her eyes grew brighter and she seemed half interested . 
Why , Little Sister , she said , if you can catch some of those fish like you do sometimes , I believe I could eat one of them . 
I never had such a be hanged time getting started . 
I slipped from the room , and never told a soul even where I was going . 
I fell over the shovel and couldn't find anything quick enough but my pocket to put the worms in , and I forgot my stringer . 
I put the first worm on carefully , and if ever I prayed ! Sometimes it was hard to understand about this praying business . 
My mother was the best and most beautiful woman who ever lived . 
I lay down across the roots and pulled my bonnet far over my face and tried to see to the bottom . 
I read in school the other day And by those little rings on the water I know The fishes are merrily swimming below . 
Then one did , so I jerked with all my might , jerked so hard the fish and worm both flew off , and I had only the hook left . 
I put on the other half and tried again . 
I had no stringer to put it back in the water to keep cool , and the sun was hot that day , like times in the fall . 
Stretched on the roots , with it shining on my back , and striking the water and coming up from below , I dripped with heat and excitement . 
I threw that one away , put on another worm , and a big turtle took it , the hook , and broke my line , and almost pulled me in . 
I wouldn't have let go if it had , for I just had to have a fish . 
There was no help from the Lord in that , so I quit praying , only what I said when I didn't know it . 
I wished I had been where I couldn't have heard that , because I didn't intend going home until I had a fish that would do for mother if I stayed until night . 
So I bent another pin and tried again . 
I lost the next worm without knowing how , and then I turned baby and cried right out loud . 
Strange how thinking about them helped . 
I pretended so hard , that I got braver and stronger , and asked the Lord more like there was some chance of being heard . 
It looked like the whale that swallowed Jonah , as it went over my head . 
I laid the pole across the roots , jumped up and turned , and I had to grab the stump to keep from falling in the water and dying . 
If it gave one flop that way , it would slide down the hole straight back into the water and between me and the fish stood our cross old Shropshire ram . 
I was having more than my share that minute , and it bothered me a lot almost every day . 
Everything put together , I thought I couldn't stand it . 
I never wanted anything as I wanted that fish , and I never hated anything as I hated that sheep . 
It wasn't the sheep's fault either Leon teased it on purpose , just to see it chase Polly Martin but that was more her doings than his . 
She was a widow and she crossed our front meadow going to her sister's . 
She had two boys big as Laddie , and three girls , and father said they lived like the lilies of the field they toiled not , neither did they spin . 
We hadn't a particle of patience with such people . 
When you are lazy like that it is very probable that you'll live to see the day when your children will peep through the fence cracks and cry for bread . 
If , like the little busy bee , she had improved each shining hour , he never would have done it . 
Seems to me , she brought the trouble on her own head . 
At last it would butt the fence until it would knock itself down , and if he dangled the hat again , get right up and do it over . 
Father never caught Leon , so he couldn't understand what made the sheep so dreadfully cross , because he had thought it was quite peaceable when he bought it . 
Flop ! went the fish , and its tail touched the edge of the hole . 
Then I turned around and picked up the pole . 
I put my sunbonnet over the big end of it , and poked it at the ram , and drew it back as Leon did his hat . 
One more jump and mother's fish would be gone . 
I stood on the roots and waved my bonnet . 
The sheep lowered its head and came at it with a rush . 
I drew back the pole , and the sheep's forefeet slid over the edge , and it braced and began to work to keep from going in . 
The fish gave a big flop and went down the hole . 
Then I turned Crusader and began to fight , and I didn't care if I were whipped black and blue , I meant to finish that old black faced Shropshire . 
I set the pole on the back of its neck and pushed with all my might , and I got it in , too . 
You little demon , stop ! cried Laddie . 
I got in a good one right on the ram's nose . 
Then Laddie dropped the sheep and twisted the fish pole from my fingers , and I pushed him as hard as I could , but he was too strong . 
He lifted the sheep , pulled it to the bank , and rolled it , worked its jaws , and squeezed water from it , and worked and worked . 
I guess you've killed it ! he said at last . 
Goody ! Oh but I am glad it's dead ! What on earth has turned you to a fiend ? asked Laddie , beginning work on the sheep again . 
That ram ! I said . 
Ever since Leon made it cross so it would chase Polly Martin , it's got me oftener than her . 
I can't go anywhere for it , and to day it made me lose a big fish , and mother is waiting . 
She thought maybe she could eat some . 
Then I roared bet I sounded like Bashan's bull . 
Dear Lord ! said Laddie dropping the sheep and taking me in his wet arms . 
Tell me , Biddy ! Tell me how it is . 
Then he went and looked down the hole I showed him and he cried out quicklike , and threw himself on the grass , and in a second up came the fish . 
So I took the fish and ran as fast as I could , but I sent May back with the bottle , and did the scaling myself . 
No one at our house could do it better , for Laddie taught me the right way long ago , when I was small , and I'd done it hundreds of times . 
Then I went to Candace and she put a little bit of butter and a speck of lard in a skillet , and cooked the fish brown . 
I have to tell you the rest , too . 
Laddie made the ram come alive , and father sold it the next day for more than he paid for it . 
I went flying , and thank goodness ! he held out his arms . 
Oh Laddie ! I never did it ! I cried . 
I never , never did ! I couldn't ! Laddie , I love you best of any one you know I do ! Of course you didn't ! said Laddie . 
My Little Sister wasn't anywhere around when that happened . 
That was a poor little girl I never saw before , and she was in such trouble she didn't know WHAT she was doing . 
And I hope I'll never see her again , he ended , twisting his shoulder . 
But he kissed me and made it all right , and really I didn't do that I just simply couldn't have struck Laddie . 
Marrying off Sally was little worse than getting Shelley ready for school . 
That meant he'd spent what he had in the bank on Sally's wedding , and all that was in the Underground Station , or maybe the Station money wasn't his . 
Just when he was awfully bothered , mother said to never mind , she believed she could fix it . 
She sent all of us into the orchard to pick the fine apples that didn't keep well , and father made three trips to town to sell them . 
She had big jars of lard she wouldn't need before butchering time came again , and she sold dried apples , peaches , and raspberries from last year . 
She got lots of money for barrels of feathers she'd saved to improve her feather beds and pillows she said she would see to that later . 
Father hated to use it the worst way , but she said she'd saved it for an emergency , and now seemed to be the time . 
Father said maybe it did to the girl , and other women what he meant was that it made none to a man . 
I do wonder if I'm going to be too pretty to escape , when I put on long dresses . 
Sometimes I look in the glass to see if it's coming , but I don't suppose it's any use . 
Mother says you can't tell a thing at the growing age about how a girl is going to look at eighteen . 
Have you noticed the crock in passing ? Is there anything in it ? It was about half full , once when I went by , said Leon . 
I haven't seen it lately . 
Do please be a dear and look , when you go after the cows this evening , said Shelley . 
If there's anything in it , bring it up . 
Do it yourself for want of me , The boy replied quite manfully , quoted Leon from The Little Lord and the Farmer . 
I think you're mean as dirt if you don t bring it , said Shelley . 
You could see she wanted to . 
I can get it myself , she said angrily . 
What will you give me to bring it ? asked Leon , who never missed a chance to make a bargain . 
Are they not a proper reward ? asked Shelley . 
Thanks your foot ! said Leon . 
Will you bring something pretty from Chicago for Susie Fall's Christmas present ? Every one laughed , but Leon never cared . 
He liked Susie best of any of the girls , and he wanted every one to know it . 
So Shelley said she would get him something for Susie , and Leon brought the crock . 
Shelley looked at it sort of dubious like , tipped it , and stared at the dirt settled in the bottom , and then stuck in her finger and tasted it . 
She looked at Leon with a queer grin and said Smarty , smarty , think you're smart ! She threw the creek water into the swill bucket . 
No one said a word , but Leon looked much sillier than she did . 
Right at the last , she didn't seem to want to leave so badly , but all of them said she must . 
There were eight of us left , counting Candace and Miss Amelia , and you wouldn't think a house with eight people living in it would be empty , but ours was . 
The roses on the window blinds didn't look so bright as they had mother said the only way she could get along was to keep right on working . 
For Laddie , May and Leon he used the geography , the Bible , Roland's history , the Christian Advocate , and the Agriculturist . 
I knew most of them , from hearing the big folks repeat them so often and practise the proper way to read them . 
I could do Rienzi's Address to the Romans , Casablanca , Gray's Elegy , or Mark Antony's Speech , but best of all , I liked Lines to a Water fowl . 
When he was tired , if it were not bedtime yet , all of us , boys too , sewed rags for carpet and rugs . 
Laddie braided corn husks for the kitchen and outside door mats , and they were pretty , and very useful too , like the dog that got his head patted in McGuffey's Second . 
Then they picked the apples . 
These had to be picked by hand , wrapped in soft paper , packed in barrels , and shipped to Fort Wayne . 
Where they couldn't reach by hand , they stood on barrels or ladders , and used a long handled picker , so as not to bruise the fruit . 
Laddie helped with everything through the day , worked at his books at night , and whenever he stepped outside he looked in the direction of Pryors' . 
He climbed to the topmost limbs of the trees with a big basket , picked it full and let it down with a long piece of clothesline . 
Father said that law was wrong the man never should have been hanged in the first place . 
Gee , that was tough on the man ! said Leon , but I guess the law is all right . 
Of course he wouldn't want to die , and twice over at that , but I don't suppose the man he killed liked to die either . 
I think if you take a life , it's all right to give your own to pay for it . 
That's the law , and it's as good a way to make it as any . 
But I'm not going to kill any one . 
I've studied my physiology hard to find all the spots that will kill . 
I wonder how it feels to die . 
I'd like to be hanged enough to find out how it goes , and then come back , and brag about it . 
I don't think it hurts much I believe I'll try it . 
So Leon took the rope Laddie lowered the baskets with , and threw it over a big limb . 
Then he stepped from the barrel . 
It jerked me toward him about a yard , as he came down smash ! on his feet . 
I held with all my might , but he was too heavy and falling that way . 
The last thing I heard was Leon telling me to say when I was hanged enough . 
Even then I wasn't sure what he was going to do . 
And anyway , it didn't amount to so awful much . 
It was Thanksgiving by that time , and all of Winfield's , Lucy's , Sally and Peter , and our boys came home . 
Shelley wrote such lovely letters that mother saved them and after we had eaten as much dinner as we could , she read them before we left the table . 
I had heard most of them , but I liked to listen again , because they sounded so happy . 
You could hear Shelley laugh on every page . 
She told about how Peter's cousin was waiting when the train stopped . 
They couldn't room together right away , but they were going to the first chance they had . 
Shelley felt badly because they were so far apart , but she was in a nice place , where she could go with other girls of the school until she learned the way . 
She told of people she met , and how one of the teachers took a number of girls in his class to see a great picture gallery . 
Mother said she didn't see how he could say a thing like that about the child . 
Of course she couldn't tell in a letter about hundreds of pictures , but it was easy enough to tell all about a man . 
Mother said that would stop the child's confidences completely and she'd think all the time about the man , and never mention him again , so she wouldn't know what WAS going on . 
Mother didn't always read the letters to us , but she answered every one she got that same night . 
Sometimes she pushed the pen so she jabbed the paper , and often she smiled or laughed softly . 
We were wearing all our clothes from last fall that we could , and our coats from last winter to help out , but we didn't care . 
That looked sensible , and I thought it would be that way , too . 
We were talking it over coming from school one evening , and when we had settled it , we began to play Dip and Fade . 
We played it like that , because it was as near as we could come to working out a song Isaac Thomas sang every time he got happy . 
Every time he made exactly the same speech in meeting . 
He only looked funny , and made you want to laugh . 
It took Emanuel Ripley to raise your hair . 
In his sacred word ah , The Lord ah tells us , That we are all his childring ah . 
That went on until he was hoarse , then he prayed , and arose and sang his song . 
Other men spoke where they stood . 
In summer , mostly , they let him go . 
Isaac always was fattest in winter , especially during revivals , but at any time mother said he looked like a sheep's carcass after the buzzards had picked it . 
The way we played it was this we stood together at the edge of a roadside puddle and sang the first verse and the chorus exactly as Isaac did . 
Then we laughed like dunces , and then May began to sway and swing , and drone through her nose for me , and I was so excited I never looked . 
I just dipped and faded on the spot . 
A man passing on horseback pried me out with a rail and helped me home . 
Of course he didn't know how I happened to fall in , and I was too chilled to talk . 
I noticed May only said I fell , so I went to bed scorched inside with red pepper tea , and never told a word about dipping and fading . 
CHAPTER IX Even So All things whatsoever ye would That men should do to you , Do ye even so to them . 
They said they , themselves , once had been at the mercy of the people , and they knew how it felt . 
Then she always quoted All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you , do ye EVEN SO to them . 
Father said there were men who made a business of splitting hairs , and of finding different meanings in almost everything in the Bible . 
I would like to have seen any one split hairs about that , or it made to mean something else . 
It was just the hatefulest text of any , and made you squirm most . 
There was no possible way to get around it . 
And if there were the least flaw of crystal in the pencil , she found it , and bore down so hard that what she wrote never would come off . 
The girls always scolded dreadfully about the extra washing , but mother said she slept on sheets when she came out , and some one washed them . 
Sally said The talk at the church always led me to think that you flew to Heaven . 
Mother answered So I get there , I don't mind if I creep . 
Then Sally knew it was time to stop . 
I didn't like that man , but some of the others seemed to find him amusing . 
Maybe it was because I had nothing to do but sit and watch him , and so I saw more of him than the ones who came and went all the time . 
As long as there was any one in the room , he complained dreadfully about his sore foot , and then cheered up and talked , and he could tell interesting things . 
He was young , but he must have been most everywhere and seen everything . 
He was very brave and could stand off three men who were going to take from him the money he was carrying to buy a piece of land in Illinois . 
Father said he could load in a flash when it was necessary , but he was dubious about a loaded gun in a house full of children . 
Not one of us ever touched it , until the boys were big enough to have permission , like Laddie and Leon had . 
This man could , for he examined the lock and smiled in a pleased way over it , and he never limped a step going back to his chair . 
He kept on complaining , until father told him before bedtime that he had better rest a day or two , and mother said that would be a good idea . 
He talked so much we couldn't do our lessons or spell very well , but it was Friday and we'd have another chance Saturday , so it didn't make so much difference . 
Father said the traveller must be tired and sleepy and Leon should take a light and show him to bed . 
He stayed so long father went to the foot of the stairway , and asked him why he didn't come down and he said he was in bed too . 
The next morning he was sleepy at breakfast and Laddie said it was no wonder , because Leon and the traveller were talking when he went upstairs . 
The man turned to father and said That's a mighty smart boy , Mr. Stanton . 
Father frowned and said Praise to the face is open disgrace . 
I hope he will be smart enough not to disgrace us , anyway . 
Sunday evening all of us attended church , but the traveller was too tired , so when Leon said he'd stay with him , father thought it was all right . 
I could see no one wanted to leave the man alone in the house . 
He said they'd go to bed early , and we came in quite late . 
The lamp was turned low , the door unlocked , and everything in place . 
Laddie went to bed without a candle , and said he'd undress and slip in easy so as not to waken them . 
In the morning when he got up the traveller's bed hadn't been slept in , and neither had Leon's . 
He just said All gone ! Father and mother both sat down suddenly and hard . 
Then Laddie ran to the barn and came back and said none of the horses had been taken . 
Soon they went into the parlour and shut the door , and when they came out father staggered and mother looked exactly like Sabethany . 
Laddie ran to the barn , saddled Flos and rode away . 
Father started to say something , and mother held up her hand and just said , Paul ! and he sank back in the chair and kept still . 
Mother always had spoken of him as the Head of the Family , and here he wasn't at all ! He minded her quickly as I would . 
When Miss Amelia came downstairs they let her start to school and never told her a word , but mother said May and I were not to go . 
I slid down and picked it up , and there was one sheet of paper money left in it stuck to the sides . 
It was all plain as a pikestaff . 
He was so slim and light he could race for the doctor faster than Laddie or father , either one . 
Of course he loved his mother , just as all of us did he never , never could go away and not let her know about it . 
If he had gone , that watchful eyed man , who was lame only part of the time , had taken the gun and made him go . 
I knew precious well I would , if I were in his place . 
Do please hurry ! Then I listened , and all I could hear was a rat gnawing at a corner of the granary under the hay . 
Might as well have saved its teeth , it would strike a strip of tin when it got through , but of course it couldn't know that . 
Then I slipped in the front door , up the stairs , and searched the garret , even away back where I didn't like to very well . 
At last I went to the dining room , and I don't think either father or mother had moved , while Sabethany turned to stone looked good compared with them . 
In the kitchen Candace and May finished the morning work , and both of them cried steadily . 
I slipped to May , Whose money was it ? I whispered . 
Father's , or the county's , or the church's ? All three , said May . 
How would he find it ? None of us knew there was such a place before . 
Laddie seemed to know ! Oh Laddie ! Father trusts him about everything . 
They don't think HE told ? Of course not , silly . 
It's Leon who is gone ! Leon may have told about the Station ! I cried . 
He didn't touch the money . 
He never touched it ! Then I went straight to father . 
Keeping a secret was one thing seeing the only father you had look like that , was another . 
I held out the money . 
There's one piece old Even So didn't get , anyway , I said . 
Found it on the floor of the Station , where it was stuck to the can . 
Father sat and stared at me . 
He never offered to touch the money , not even when I held it against his hand . 
So I saw that money wasn't the trouble , else he'd have looked quick enough to see how much I had . 
They were thinking about Leon being gone , at least father was . 
Mother called me to her and asked You knew about the Station ? I nodded . 
When ? On the way back from taking Amanda Deam her ducks this summer . 
Leon was with you ? He found it . 
What were you doing ? Sitting on the fence eating apples . 
We were wondering why that ravine place wasn't cleaned up , when everywhere else was , and then Leon said there might be a reason . 
He told about having seen a black man , and that he was hidden some place , and we hunted there and found it . 
We rolled back the stone , and opened the door , and Leon went in , and both of us saw a can full of money . 
Father's arms shot out , and his head pitched on the table . 
Mother got up and began to walk the floor , and never went near or even touched him . 
I went and pulled his arm and put the bill under his hand . 
Laddie will stay home and work , and all of us . 
We can help get it back . 
We can sell a lot of things . 
We can manage about the money , father , indeed we can . 
But you don't dare think Leon took it ! He never did ! Why , he's yours ! Yours and mother's ! Father lifted his head and reached out his arms . 
You blessing ! he said . 
Perhaps Laddie will be back with word soon . 
But he almost had to carry her . 
Then I went out and climbed the catalpa tree to watch for Laddie . 
Soon I saw a funny thing , such as I never before had seen . 
Coming across the fields , straight toward our house , sailing over the fences like a bird , came the Princess on one of her horses . 
Its legs stretched out so far its body almost touched the ground , and it lifted up and swept over the rails . 
I ran before her and opened the sitting room door , but no one was there , so I went on to the dining room . 
Father had come in , and mother was sitting in her chair . 
Both of them looked at the Princess and never said a word . 
She stopped inside the dining room door and spoke breathlessly , as if she as well as the horse had raced . 
Is it true ? Practically , said my father . 
Then my mother motioned toward a chair . 
You are kind to come , she said . 
I'll tell you why I came , and then if there is nothing I can do here , and no errand I can ride for you , I'll go . 
Last night she was unusually ill , and I heard her leave the house , after I'd gone to my room . 
I watched from my window and saw her take a seat on a bench under the nearest tree . 
I was moving around and often I looked to see if she were still there . 
Then the dogs began to rave , and I hurried down . 
They used to run free , but lately , on account of her going out , father has been forced to tie them at night . 
They were straining at their chains , and barking dreadfully . 
I met her at the door , but she would only say some one passed and gave her a fright . 
When Thomas came in and told what he had heard , she said instantly that she had seen the man . 
He crossed our barnyard and went toward the northwest . 
If your gun is gone , there must have been two , and the other man took that and went a different way . 
Did two men stop here ? No , said father . 
The Princess looked at him thoughtfully . 
Your mother saw nothing of two men ? Only one , and she knows he didn't carry a gun . 
Except the man you took in , no stranger has been noticed around here lately ? No one . 
Even the gun was not loaded as it stood whoever took it carried the ammunition also , but he couldn't fire until he loaded . 
Father turned to the corner where the gun always stood and then he stooped and picked up two little white squares from the floor . 
They were bits of unbleached muslin in which he wrapped the bullets he made . 
The rifle was loaded before starting , and in a hurry , he said , as he held up the squares of muslin . 
You see the measure was overrun . 
Wouldn't the man naturally think the gun was loaded , and take it as it stood ? That would be a reasonable conclusion , said father . 
But he looked ! I cried . 
And he didn't limp a mite when I was the only one in the room . 
He and Leon knew it wasn't loaded , and I guess he didn't load it , for he liked having it empty so well . 
What it would save in this world if a child only knew when to talk and when to keep still . 
Little Sister , the next time you see a stranger examine my gun when I'm not in the room , suppose you take father out alone and whisper to him about it . 
Yes , sir , I said . 
I would have enjoyed knowing how one could be sure . 
Hereafter , it will be all right about the gun , anyway . 
Leon didn't take a horse . 
Father said there was nothing she could do , so she took my hand and we started for the gate . 
I do hope they will find him , and get back the money , and give him what he deserves ! she cried . 
Yes , father and mother are praying that they'll find him , I said . 
It doesn't seem to make the least difference to them about the money . 
Father didn't even look at a big paper piece I found where it was hidden . 
But they are anxious about the man . 
Mother says he is so young , we just must find him , and keep this a secret , and give him another chance . 
You won't tell , will you ? The Princess stood still on our walk , and then of all things ! if she didn't begin to go Sabethany like . 
The colour left her cheeks and lips and she shivered and shook and never said one word . 
Say , what ails you ? I cried . 
Mother stared above her head at father , with her eyebrows raised high , and he waved his hand toward me . 
Mother turned to me , but already she had put her arms around the Princess , and was trying to hold her together . 
What did you tell her that made her come back ? she asked sternlike . 
You forgot to explain that the man was so young , and you wanted to keep it a secret and give him another chance , I said . 
I just asked her not to tell . 
Mother looked at father and all the colour went from her face , and she began to shake . 
After a while it opened and they came out together , with both mother's arms around the Princess , and she had cried until she staggered . 
Mother lifted her face and kissed her , when they reached the door and said Tell your mother I understand enough to sympathize . 
I do wish she would give herself the comfort of asking God to help her . 
She does ! Oh , I'm sure she does ! said the Princess . 
It's father who has lost all judgment and reason . 
When father came in he looked at mother , and she said I haven't the details , but she understands too well . 
The Pryor mystery isn't much of a mystery any more . 
If she had known my mother as I did , she'd have known that she ALWAYS wanted to give every man a second chance , no matter whether he was young or old . 
She went to the door and watched as he rode up , but you could see by his face he had not heard of them . 
Nothing , but I have some men out . 
I am going east now , he said . 
I wish , father , you would rub Flos down , blanket her , and if you can , walk her slowly an hour while she cools off . 
I am afraid I've ruined her . 
How much had you there ? I haven't stopped to figure , said father . 
I think I'd better take the horse I have ready and go on one of the northwest roads . 
The Pryor girl was here a few moments ago , and her mother saw a man cross their place about the right time last evening . 
He ran and acted suspiciously when the dogs barked . 
But he was alone and he didn't have a gun . 
Was she sure ? Positive . 
Then it couldn't have been our man , but I'll ride in that direction and start a search . 
They would keep to the woods , I think ! You'd better stay with mother . 
I'll ask Jacob Hood to take your place . 
Mother went to bed , while father sat beside her reading aloud little scraps from the Bible , and they took turns praying . 
One thing was so curious , I asked May if she noticed , and she had . 
He went on hunting places where the Lord said sure and strong that He'd help people who loved Him . 
When either of them prayed , they asked the Lord to help those near them who were in trouble , as often and earnestly as they begged Him to help them . 
There were no people near us who were in trouble that we knew of , excepting Pryors . 
May said because they were big like that was why all of us loved them so . 
At almost dusk , and frozen so stiff I could scarcely hang to the limb , I heard the bulldogs at Pryors' begin to rave . 
They kept on steadily , and I thought Gypsies must be passing . 
Then from the woods came a queer party that started across the cornfield toward the Big Meadow in front of the house , and I thought they were hunters . 
I stood in the tree and watched until they climbed the meadow fence , and by that time I could see plainly . 
The traveller man got over first , then Leon and the dogs , and then Mr. Pryor handed Leon the gun , leaped over , and took it . 
I looked again , and then fell from the tree and almost bursted . 
As soon as I could get up , and breathe , I ran to the front door , screaming Father ! Father ! Come open the Big Gate . 
The traveller man wouldn't look up , he just slouched along . 
But Leon's chin was up and his head high . 
He was scratched , torn , and dirty . 
He was wheezing every breath most from his knees , and Mr. Pryor half carried him and the gun . 
When they met us , Leon reached in his trousers pocket and drew out a big roll of money that he held toward father . 
My fault ! he gasped . 
But I got it back for you . 
Then he fell over and father caught him in his arms and carried him into the house , and laid him on the couch in the dining room . 
Mr. Pryor got down and gathered up the money from the road . 
He followed into the house and set the gun in the corner . 
Don't be frightened , he said to mother . 
The boy has walked all night , and all day , with no sleep or food , and the gun was a heavy load for him . 
I gathered from what he said , when the dogs let us know they were coming , that this hound took your money . 
Your dog barked and awakened the boy and he loaded the gun and followed . 
The fellow had a good start and he didn't get him until near daybreak . 
It's been a stiff pull for the youngster and he seems to feel it was his fault that this cowardly cur you sheltered learned where you kept your money . 
When Leon drew a deep breath and his head rolled on the pillow , father looked at Mr. Pryor . 
I don't think he heard all of it , but he caught the last words . 
Hard on him ! Hard on him ! he said , the tears rolling down his cheeks . 
This my son , who was lost , is found ! Oh ! shouted Mr. Pryor , slamming the money on the table . 
Poor drivel to fit the circumstances . 
Father wet Leon's lips and arose . 
He held out his hand , and Mr. Pryor took it . 
I will pray God , he said , that it may happen even so' to you . 
Leon opened his eyes and caught only the last words . 
You had better look out for the Even So's , father , he said . 
I went and picked up the money and carried it to father to put away , and that time he took it . 
But even then he didn't stop to see if he had all of it . 
You see ! I said , I told you You did indeed ! said father . 
And you almost saved our reason . 
There are times when things we have come to feel we can't live without , so press us , that money seems of the greatest importance . 
When he can understand , your brother shall know of the wondrous faith his Little Sister had in him . 
Maybe he won't like what you and mother thought . 
Maybe we better not tell him . 
I can keep secrets real well . 
I have several big ones I've never told , and I didn't say a word about the Station when Leon said I shouldn't . 
After this there will be no money kept on the place , said father . 
It's saving time at too great cost . 
All we have goes into the bank , and some of us will cheerfully ride for what we want , when we need it . 
As for not telling Leon , that is as your mother decides . 
For myself , I believe I'd feel better to make a clean breast of it . 
Don't CRY , mammy ! he said . 
Sorry such a rumpus ! Let him fool me . 
Well , I be ding busted ! said Leon , sort of slow and wondering like , and father never opened his head to tell him that was no way to talk . 
I guess they thought Leon was about right after that . 
Laddie went and bent over him and took his hand . 
Don't be in quite such a hurry , old man , he said . 
Before you wink out I have got to tell you how proud I am of having a brother who is a real Crusader . 
The Lord knows this took nerve ! You're great , boy , simply great ! Leon grabbed Laddie's hand with both of his and held tight and laughed . 
You could see the big tears squeeze out , although he fought to wink them back . 
He held to Laddie and said low like , only for him to hear It's all right if you stay by a while , old man . 
He began to talk slowly . 
It was a long time before I caught up , and then I had to hide , and follow until day , and he wasn't so very easy to handle . 
Once I thought he had me sure ! It was an awful load , but if it hadn't been for the good old gun , I'd never have got him . 
Once we had it settled who walked ahead , and who carried the money and gun , we got along better , but I had to keep an eye on him every minute . 
To come through the woods was the shortest , but I'm tired out , and so is he . 
Getting close I most felt sorry for him , he was so forlorn , and so scared about what would be done to him . 
He stopped and pulled out another roll , and offered me all of it , if I'd let him go . 
I didn't know whether it was really his , or part of father's , so I told him he could just drop it until I found out . 
Made him sweat blood , but I had the gun , and he had to mind . 
So there may be more in the roll I gave father than Even So took . 
Father can figure up and keep what belongs to him . 
Father got out his books and figured up his own and the road money , and Miss Amelia's , and the church's . 
When father had everything counted there was more than his , quite a lot of it , stolen from other people who sheltered the traveller no doubt , father said . 
When you watched Leon sleep you could tell a lot more about what had happened to him than he could . 
But it did no good he went right off to sleep again , and it happened all over . 
Then father began getting his Crusader blood up , although he always said he was a man of peace . 
And he'd have done it too ! He was like that . 
He said they could see the lights and they were afraid the boy was ill , and could any of them help . 
Father said there was nothing they could do Leon was asleep . 
Then Mr. Pryor said If he is off sound , so it won't disturb him , I would like to see him again . 
Father told him Leon was restless , but so exhausted a railroad train wouldn't waken him , so Mr. Pryor came in and went to the couch . 
Laddie held it for him , but he didn't seem to remember he was there . 
I think father and Laddie sat beside Leon all night . 
The others went to sleep . 
A little after daybreak , just as Laddie was starting to feed , there was an awful clamour , and here came a lot of neighbours with Even So . 
Every few rods they met more men out searching who came with them , until there were so many , our front yard and the road were crowded . 
Of all the sights you ever saw , Even So looked the worst . 
You could see that he'd drop over at much more . 
Those men kept crying they were going to hang him but mother went out and talked to them , and said they mustn't kill a man for taking only money . 
The men didn't like it , but the traveller did . 
He grabbed and gobbled like a beast at the hot food and cried , and mother said she forgave him , and to let him go . 
He told all about getting ours back , and having had him at the house once before . 
They took him away on a horse and said they'd let him go , but that they'd escort him from the county . 
Father told Mr. Freshett that he was a little suspicious of them , and he would hold him responsible for the man's life . 
I don't know what Mr. Freshett calls safe , for they took Even So to Groveville and locked him up until night . 
Hannah Freshett told me at school the next day . 
Leon grew all right faster than you would think . 
He went to school day after next , and the boys were sick with envy . 
They asked and asked , but Leon wouldn't tell much . 
He didn't seem to like to talk about it , and he wouldn't play the game or even watch us . 
He talked a blue streak about the money . 
I used to pretend it was coming to me , and each day I thought of a new way to spend it . 
Pulling his boots one night , father said so too , and that the thoughts of it worried him . 
He said Mr. Pryor had shaded his price so that if the money had to go , he would be tempted to see if we couldn't manage it ourselves . 
I don't know how shading the price of a horse would make her feel better , but it did , and maybe Leon is going to get it . 
Watch me take the plunge ! said Laddie . 
Mad frenzy fires him now , quoted Leon . 
It was Sunday after dinner . 
We had been to church and Sunday school in the forenoon , and we had a houseful of company for dinner . 
All of them remained to spend the afternoon , because in our home it was perfectly lovely . 
We had a big dinner with everything good to start on , and then we talked and visited and told all the news . 
The women exchanged new recipes for cooking , advised each other about how to get more work done with less worry , to doctor their sick folks , and to make their dresses . 
Before he finished , he always managed to work in a lot about being honest , kind , and loving God . 
He and mother felt so good over Leon , and by this time they were beginning to see that they were mighty glad about the money too . 
Of course they looked at Laddie , and no one knew what he meant , so all the women and a few of the men asked him . 
Watch me , I said , laughed Laddie as he left the room . 
Before long the stair door of the sitting room opened , and there he stood . 
Of course he was bathed , and in clean clothing to start with , but he had washed and brushed some more , until he shone . 
His cheeks were as smooth and as clear pink as any girl's , his eyes blue gray and big , with long lashes and heavy brows . 
His hair was bright brown and wavy , and he was so big and broad . 
He never had been sick a day in his life , and he didn't look as if he ever would be . 
And clothes DO make a difference . 
I don't see how any man could possibly be handsomer or look finer . 
She said they acted like half broken colts fretting over restriction . 
I suppose those other men would have looked like ours if their mothers had told them . 
You can always see that a man needs a woman to help him out awful bad . 
Sarah , he said , 'member the day we spoiled the washing ? Every one laughed . 
They had made jokes about it until our friends knew what they meant . 
What are you going to spoil now ? asked Sarah . 
The Egyptians ! The furriners . 
I'm going right after them ! Well , you could be in better business , said Sarah Hood sharply . 
Laddie laughed and squeezed her chin , and hugged her head against him . 
Listen to that , now ! he cried . 
My best friend going back on me . 
Sarah , I thought you , of all people , would wish me luck . 
I do ! she said instantly . 
And that's the very reason I don't want you mixed up with that mysterious , offish , stuck up mess . 
Bless your dear heart ! said Laddie , giving her a harder squeeze than ever . 
You got that all wrong , Sarah . 
You'll live to see the day , very shortly , when you'll change every word of it . 
I haven't done anything but get surer about it every day for two years , anyway , said Sarah Hood . 
Exactly ! said Laddie , but wait until I have taken the plunge ! Let me tell you how the Pryor family strikes me . 
I once heard one of her best friends say she was distinctly plain . 
I didn't see how she could but she said that . 
and the most pitiful , Laddie went on . 
Sarah , said Laddie , I've seen her closely , watched her move , and studied her expression . 
There's not one grain of possibility that you , or mother , or Mrs. Fall , or any woman here , could be any closer connected with SHAME . 
I am not much on persistence in the face of a locked door , a cast iron man with a big cane , and two raving bulldogs , said Mrs. Hood . 
Wait , young man ! Just wait until he sets them on you . 
Laddie's head went back and how he laughed . 
Hist ! A word with you , Sarah ! he said . 
'Member I have a sort of knack with animals . 
I never yet have failed with one I undertook to win . 
Now those bulldogs of Pryors' are as mild as kittens with a man who knows the right word . 
Reason I know , Sarah , I've said the word to them , separately and collectively , and it worked . 
There is a contrast , Sarah , between what I say and do to those dogs , and the kicks and curses they get from their owner . 
They laughed as if that were funny . 
Well , I didn't know about this , said Sarah . 
Mother , I want a cup of peach jelly , and some of that exceptionally fine cake you served at dinner , to take to our sick neighbour . 
Father , I want permission to cut and carry a generous chestnut branch , burred , and full fruited , to the young woman . 
There is none save ours in this part of the country , and she may never have seen any , and be interested . 
And I want that article about foot disease in horses , for Mr. Pryor . 
I'll bring it back when he finishes . 
Father folded the paper and handed it to Laddie , who slipped it in his pocket . 
Take the finest branch you can select , father said , and I almost fell over . 
He was wild about trees , and bushes , so he made up his mind he'd have chestnuts . 
Finally , he put them , on the fourth move , on a little sandy ridge across the road from the wood yard , and that was the spot . 
That must have been what was in the back of Laddie's head when he wanted a branch for the Princess . 
If I'm invited in , I'm going to make the effort of my life at driving the entering wedge toward social intercourse between Pryors and their neighbours . 
If I'm not , I'll be back in thirty minutes and tell you what happened to me . 
Of course every one laughed they couldn't help it . 
I watched father and he laughed hardest of the men , but mother was more stiff lipped about it she couldn't help a little , though . 
And I noticed some of those women acted as if they had lost something . 
Well , that was all fair and plain . 
He had told those people , our very best friends , what he thought about everything , the way they acted included . 
He was carrying something to each member of the Pryor family , and he'd left a way to return joking and unashamed , if they wouldn't let him in . 
He had fixed things so no one had anything to guess at , and it would look much worse for the Pryors than it would for him , if he did come back . 
I wondered if he had been born that smart , or if he learned it in college . 
If he did , no wonder Leon was bound to go . 
Come to think of it , though , mother said Laddie was always like that . 
But I guess she couldn't have said that about uneasiness lately , for she couldn't keep from looking troubled as all of us followed to the gate to see him start . 
How they joked , and tried to tease him ! But they couldn't get a breath ahead . 
He shot back answers as fast as they could ask questions , while he cut the branch and untied the horse . 
He gave the limb and basket to mother to hold , kissed her good bye , and me too , before he mounted . 
Not the ghost of a secret ! he said . 
But you let me do the talking , until I tell you . 
Then he went on right out loud I'm riding up the road waving the banner of peace . 
If I suffer repulse , the same thing has happened to better men before , so I'll get a different banner and try again . 
Laddie mounted , swept a circle in the road , dropped Flos on her knees in a bow , and waved the branch . 
Leon began to sing at the top of his voice , Nothing but leaves , nothing but leaves , while Laddie went flashing up the road . 
You heard Laddie say he'd return immediately if they wouldn't let him in , he said . 
He's a man of his word . 
He will either enter or come home at once . 
It was pitch dark and we had supper before some of them left they never stayed so late . 
After we came from church , father read the chapter and we were ready for bed still Laddie hadn't come back . 
At bedtime he said to mother Well , they don't seem in a hurry about sending the boy back . 
Did you really think he WOULD be sent back ? asked mother . 
In a case like this , one can be reasonably certain , said mother . 
You don't know what social position they occupied at home . 
Their earmarks are all good . 
We've no such notions here as they have . 
Thank God for so much , at any rate , said mother . 
How old England would rise up and exult if she had a man in line with Laddie's body , blood and brain , to set on her throne . 
This talk about class and social position makes me sick . 
Men are men , and Laddie is as much above the customary timber found in kings and princes , physically and mentally , as the sky is above the earth . 
Talk me no talk about class ! If I catch it coming from any of mine , save you , I will beat it out of them . 
He has admitted he's in love with the girl the real question is , whether she's fit to be his wife . 
I should say she appears so , said father . 
Drat appearances ! cried mother . 
When it's a question of lifetime misery , and the soul's salvation of my son , if things go wrong , I've no time for appearances . 
I want to know ! He might have known he would make her angry when he laughed . 
She punched the pillow , and wouldn't say another word so I went to sleep , and didn't miss anything that time . 
That was all he would say until Miss Amelia started to school , then he took me on his lap and talked as he buttoned my coat . 
Thomas met me at the gate , he said , and held my horse while I went to the door . 
One of their women opened it , and I inquired for Mr. Pryor . 
She said he was in the field looking at the horses , so I asked for Miss Pryor . 
She came in a minute , so I gave her the branch , told her about it , and offered the jelly and cake for her mother . 
The Princess invited me to enter . 
I told her I couldn't without her father's permission , so I went to the field to see him . 
The dogs were with him and he had the surprise of his life when his man eaters rolled at my feet , and licked my hands . 
What did he say ? chuckled father . 
Told Thomas they'd been overfed and didn't amount to a brass farthing to take them to the woods and shoot them . 
Thomas said he'd see to it the very first thing in the morning , and then Mr. Pryor told him he would shoot him if he did . 
Charming man to work for , said mother . 
Then I looked him in the eye and said May I ? I'll warrant the women asked you to come in , he said . 
Miss Pryor was so kind , I answered , but I enter no man's house without his permission . 
Then she went to the next room and said Mother , father has given Mr. Stanton permission to pay us a call . 
What did she mean by that ? asked mother . 
She meant that I have haunted the road passing their place for two years , and she'd seen me so frequently that she came to recognize me . 
Laddie tell on ! I begged . 
Well , I sharpened all the wits I had and went to work . 
I never tried so hard in my life to be entertaining . 
Of course I had to feel my way . 
It was easy enough to talk to the Princess all young folks have a lot in common , we could get along on fifty topics it was different with the housebound mother . 
I did my best , and after a while Mr. Pryor came in . 
I asked him if any of his horses had been attacked with the trouble some of the neighbours were having , and told him what it was . 
He had the grace to thank me . 
He was interested in our colleges , state , and national laws , in land development , and everything that all live men are . 
Well , you should have seen me drop my hat and step up . 
I did my best , and while I talked to him a little , I made it most to the women . 
Any one could see they were starved for company , so I took the job of entertaining them . 
I told some college jokes , funny things that had happened in the neighbourhood , and everything of interest I could think up . 
I know we were at the table for two hours with things coming and going on silver platters . 
Just what did they have to eat , and how did they serve it ? she asked . 
Couldn't tell if I were to be shot for it , mummy , said Laddie . 
Forgive me ! Next time I'll take notes for you . 
This first plunge , I had to use all my brains , not to be a bore to them and to handle food and cutlery as the women did . 
It's quite a process , but as they were served first , I could do right by waiting . 
I never was where things were done quite so elaborately before . 
And they didn't know they would have company until you went to the table ? Well , they must have thought likely , there was a place for me . 
Fine idea ! Then any one who drops in can be served , and see that they are not a mite of trouble . 
Candace , always an extra place after this ! Father just shouted . 
I thought you'd get something out of it ! he said . 
Happy to have justified your faith ! replied mother calmly . 
Go on , son ! That's all ! said Laddie . 
We left the table and talked an hour more . 
Mrs. Pryor ate the cake and said it was fine and the conserve , she called it , delicious as she ever had tasted . 
She said all our fruits here had much more flavour than at home she thought it was the dryer climate and more sunshine . 
She sent her grateful thanks , and she wants your recipe before next preserving time . 
My ! but she did love to have the things she cooked , bragged on . 
Possibly she'd like my strawberries ? she said . 
There isn't a doubt about it , said Laddie . 
I've yet to see the first person who doesn't . 
Is that all ? asked mother . 
I can think of nothing more at this minute , answered Laddie . 
If anything comes to my mind later , I won't forget to tell you . 
Oh yes , there was one thing You couldn't keep Mr. Pryor from talking about Leon . 
He must have taken a great fancy to him . 
He talked until he worried the Princess , and she tried to keep him away from the subject , but his mind seemed to run on it constantly . 
When we were riding she talked quite as much as he , and it will hustle us to think what the little scamp did , any bigger than they do . 
Of course , father , you understood the price Mr. Pryor made on one of his very finest colts was a joke . 
There's a strain of Arab in the father he showed me the record and the mother is bluegrass . 
There you get gentleness and endurance combined with speed and nerve . 
I'd trade Flos for that colt as it stands to day . 
There's nothing better on earth in the way of horse . 
His offer is practically giving it away . 
I know , with the records to prove its pedigree , what that colt would bring him in any city market . 
I don't like it , said mother . 
That's the reason Mr. Pryor asked anything at all for the horse . 
It is my opinion that he would be greatly pleased to give it to Leon , if he could do what he liked . 
Well , that's precisely the thing he can't do in this family , said mother sternly . 
What do you think , father ? asked Laddie . 
I think Amen ! to that proposition , said father but I would have to take time to thresh it out completely . 
It appeals to me that Leon is old enough to recognize the value of the animal and that the care of it would develop and strengthen his character . 
It would be a responsibility that would steady him . 
You could teach him to tend and break it . 
Break it ! cried Laddie . 
Break it ! Why father , he's riding it bareback all over the Pryor meadow now , and jumping it over logs . 
And your best judgment is ? Laddie laughed as he tied my hood strings . 
Well I don't feel about the Pryors as the rest of you do , he said . 
If the money isn't claimed inside the time you specified , I would let Leon and Mr. Pryor make their own bargain . 
The boy won't know for years that it is practically a gift , and it would please Mr. Pryor immensely . 
What if we were under obligations to Mr. Pryor ? We were to Sarah Hood , and half the people we knew , and what was more , we LIKED to be . 
When I came from school that night father had been to town . 
He had an ax and was opening a big crate , containing two of the largest , bluest geese you ever saw . 
She said she had needed a new strain , for a long time , to improve her feathers now she would have pillows worth while , in a few years . 
They put them in the barn where our geese stayed over night , and how they did scream . 
That is , one of them did the other acted queerly and father said to Laddie that he was afraid the trip was hard on it . 
Laddie said it might have been hurt , and mother was worried too . 
Then she began saving for a featherbed . 
And still the goose didn't act as spry or feel as good as the gander . 
The first person who came to see them was Sarah Hood , and she left with the promise of a pair as soon as mother could raise them . 
Father said the only reason mother didn't divide her hair with Sarah Hood was because it was fast , and she couldn't . 
Mother said gracious goodness ! she'd be glad to get rid of some of it if she could , and of course Sarah should have first chance at it . 
The next caller the geese had was Mrs. Freshett . 
My ! she thought they were big and fine . 
Mother promised her a couple of eggs to set under a hen . 
Father said she was gradually coming down the scale of her feelings , and before two weeks she'd give Isaac Thomas , at least , a quill for a pen . 
Almost no one wrote with them any more , but often father made a few , and showed us how to use them . 
He said they were gone with candles , sand boxes , and snuff . 
He said it lent the dignity of a past day to an important occasion . 
I was awake when he came , or I'd never have known . 
It was almost midnight but they sat two hours at the table , and then all of them rode . 
Not the Missus ? Oh no ! She's not strong enough . 
She really has incurable heart trouble , the worst kind there is her daughter told me so . 
Then they better look out , said Mrs. Freshett . 
She is likely to keel over at a breath . 
That's why she keeps so quiet . 
And they had him to supper ? It was a dinner served at night . 
He took Mrs. Pryor in on his arm , and it was like a grand party , just as they fixed for themselves , alone . 
Waiters , and silver trays , and things carried in and out in courses . 
My land ! Well , I s'pose he had enough schoolin' to get him through it all right ! My mother's face grew red . 
She never left any one in doubt as to what she meant . 
Father said that was the Dutch of it . 
And mother always answered that if any one living could put things plainer than the English , she would like to hear them do it . 
He certainly had , said mother , or they wouldn't have invited him to come again . 
No 'fence , laughed Mrs. Freshett . 
I meant that maybe his years of college schoolin' had give him ways more like theirs than most of us have . 
It is contact with cultivated people , said mother . 
You are always influenced by it , without knowing it often . 
Maybe you are , bein' so fine yourself , said Mrs. Freshett . 
An' me too , I never get among my betters that I don't carry home a lot I put right into daily use , an' nobody knows it plainer . 
I come here expectin' to learn things that help me , an' when I go home I know I have . 
Why , thank you , said mother . 
I'm sure that is a very nice compliment , and I wish I really could feel that it is well deserved . 
Oh I guess you do ! said Mrs. Freshett laughing . 
I often noticed you makin' a special effort to teach puddin' heads like me somethin' , an' I always thank you for it . 
There's a world in right teachin' . 
So all I can pick up an' hammer into mine is a gain for me an' them . 
An' the little tow haired strip , takin' the gun an' startin' out alone after a robber , even if he wa'n't much of a man , that was downright spunky . 
If my boys will come out anywhere near like yourn , I'll be glad . 
I don't know how my boys will come out , said mother . 
But I work , pray , hope , and hang to them that's all I know to do . 
Well , if they don't come out right , they ought to be bumped ! said Mrs. Freshett . 
After all the chances they've had ! I don' know jest how Freshett was brung up , but I'd no chance at all . 
My folks well , I guess the less said little pitchers , you know ! I can't see as I was to blame . 
I was the youngest , an' I knew things was wrong . 
I fought to go to school , an' pap let me enough that I saw how other people lived . 
Come night I'd go to the garret , an' bar the trapdoor but there would be times when I couldn't help seein' what was goin' on . 
How'd you like chances such as that for a girl of yourn ? Dreadful ! said mother . 
Mrs. Freshett , please do be careful ! Sure ! laughed Mrs. Freshett . 
I was jest goin' to tell you about me an' Josiah . 
He come to our house one night , a stranger off the road . 
He said he was sick , an' tired , an' could he have a bed . 
Mother said , No , for him to move on . 
He tried an' he couldn't . 
Come mornin' he was a sick man . 
The man hadn't come , so I set to work the best I knowed . 
After a while he says , All right ! I guess I got this sized up . 
Marry me , you mean ? says I. They wa'n't ever any talk about marryin' at our house . 
You're a mighty likely lookin' girl ! I'll do fair by ye . 
An' he always has , too ! But I didn't feel right to let him go it blind , so I jest up and says . 
You 'member he is pitted considerable . 
He was so strong I jest couldn't keep him from disfigerin' himself , but he tied me . 
I begged to be loose , an' he wouldn't listen , so I got a clean face , only three little scars , an' they ain't deep to speak of . 
Josiah said he'd see I got all they was in it long that line , anyway . 
Josiah was good about it . 
He offered to sell the land , an' pull up an' go furder . 
What's the use ? says I. Hundreds know it . 
We can't go so far it won't be like to follow us le's stay here an' fight it . 
All right , says Josiah , but time an' ag'in he has offered to go , if I couldn't make it . 
Hang on a little longer , says I , every time he knew I was snubbed an' slighted . 
I never tole what he didn't notice . 
I am so glad ! said mother . 
I knowed he had money , but he never mentioned buildin' before , an' I always thought it was bekase he 'sposed likely we'd have to move on , some time . 
'Pears now as if we can settle , an' live like other folks , after all these years . 
I mighty proud of you , says he . 
Proud ! Think of that ! Miss Stanton , I'd jest wade fire and blood for you ! Oh my dear ! said mother . 
What a dreadful thing to say ! Gimme the chanct , an' watch if I don't , said Mrs. Freshett . 
I sure can't be held for what was done 'fore I was on earth , or since neither . 
She took Mrs. Freshett in her arms and hugged her tight , and kissed her mighty near like she does Sarah Hood . 
All of us are proud of her ! I boasted . 
I doubt if you are proud enough ! cried Mrs. Freshett . 
I have my doubts ! That night when I went home from school mother was worrying over the blue goose . 
When we went to feed , she told Leon that she was afraid it was weak , and not getting enough to eat when it fed with the others . 
She was starved to death , almost . 
She ate a whole ear in no time and looked for more , so Leon sent me after another . 
No such thing ! said Leon . 
You distinctly heard mother tell me to give her all she would eat . 
She's eating , isn't she ? Go bring another ear ! So she was , but I was doubtful about more . 
Leon said I better mind or he would tell mother , so I got it . 
She didn't begin on it with any enthusiasm . 
She stuck her bill higher , stretched her neck longer , and she looked so funny when she did it , that we just shrieked . 
Then Leon reached over , took her by the bill , and stripped her neck to help her swallow , and as soon as he let go , she began to eat again . 
You see ! said Leon , she's been starved . 
I must help her ! So he did help her every little bit . 
We set her down beside the corn , and she went to eating again . 
Go it , old mill hopper ! cried Leon . 
Right then there was an awful commotion in the barn , and from the squealing we knew one of the horses was loose , and fighting the others . 
We ran to fix them , and had a time to get Jo back into his stall , and tied . 
Before we had everything safe , the supper bell rang , and I bet Leon a penny I could reach the house while he shut the door and got there . 
We forgot every single thing about the goose . 
At supper mother asked Leon if he fed the goose all she would eat , and I looked at him guilty like , for I remembered we hadn't put her back . 
I didn't feed her ALL she would eat ! said Leon . 
If I had , she'd be at it yet . 
She was starved sure enough ! You never saw anything like the corn she downed . 
Well I declare ! said mother . 
Now after this , take her out alone , for a few days , and give her as much as she wants . 
All right ! chuckled Leon , because it was a lot of fun to see her run her bill around , and gobble up the corn , and stick up her head . 
Oh Leon , did you forget to come back and put her in ? Yes I did ! he said . 
Blast a girl ! If you ever amounted to anything , you could have put her in while I fixed the horses . 
At least you could have told me to . 
I stood there dumblike and stared at him . 
He has got the awfulest way of telling the truth when he is scared or provoked . 
Of course I should have thought of the goose when he was having such a hard fight with the horses . 
So I stood gawking , while Leon slowly turned whiter and whiter . 
We might as well see if we can find her , he said at last , so slow and hopeless like it made my heart ache . 
Leon came running and pulled her out . 
The swelled corn rolled in a little trail after her , and the pigs ran up and began to eat it . 
Pigs are named righter than anything else I know . 
Busted ! cried Leon in tones of awe about the worst awe you ever heard , and the worst bust you ever saw . 
From bill to breast she was wide open , and the hominy spilling . 
We just stood staring at her , and then Leon began to kick the pigs because it would be no use to kick the goose she would never know . 
Then he took her up , carried her into the barn , and put her on the floor where the other geese had stayed all night . 
We stood and looked at her some more , as if looking and hoping would make her get up and be alive again . 
But there's nothing in all this world so useless as wishing dead things would come alive we had to do something . 
What are you going to tell mother ? Shut up ! said Leon . 
I'll say it was as much my fault as yours . 
I'll take half whatever they do to you . 
Little fool ! said Leon . 
All right ! I said . 
Then I went out of the barn and slammed the door . 
For a minute I felt better but it was a short time . 
I SAID that to be mean , but I did care . 
I cared dreadfully I was partly to blame , and I knew it . 
So we went around the outside , entered at the door on the embankment , and he sat in the wheelbarrow on the threshing floor while I told him . 
Run along and play ! said Laddie , and don't tell any one else if you can help it . 
I'll hide the goose , and see if I can get another in time to take the place of this one , so mother won't be worried . 
I walked to the house slowly , but I was afraid to enter . 
When you are all choked up , people are sure to see it , and ask fool questions . 
I was across the road and slinking down inside the meadow fence before I knew it . 
There was no thought or plan . 
I started for Pryors' and went straight ahead , only I kept out of line with our kitchen windows . 
God of my life ! he fairly frothed . 
What did anybody send a dumb child here for ? Dumb child ! I didn't care if Mr. Pryor did wear a Crown of Glory . 
It wasn't going to do him one particle of good , unless he was found in the way of the Lord . 
That made me mad , and there was nothing that would help me to loosen up and talk fast , like losing my temper . 
I wondered what kind of a father he had . 
I should think not , if it had any chance at all to get away ! I was so angry by that time I meant to tell him what I thought . 
Polite or not polite , I'd take a switching if I had to , but I wasn't going to stand that . 
You haven't got any God in your life , I reminded him , and no one sent me here . 
I came to see the Princess , because I'm in awful trouble and I hoped maybe she could fix up a way to help me . 
Ye Gods ! he cried . 
He would stick to calling on God , whether he believed in Him or not . 
If it isn't Nimrod ! I didn't recognize you in all that bundling . 
Probably he didn't know it , but Nimrod was from the Bible too ! By bundling , he meant my hood and coat . 
Of course you will be glad if you can . 
She was so gracious and lovely I forgot what I went after . 
I've been much wetter than this , I told her , and I never have taken a chill , and anyway my throat's too full of trouble to drink . 
Why , you poor child ! said the Princess . 
Tell me quickly ! Is your mother ill again ? Not now , but she's going to be as soon as she finds out , I said , and then I told them . 
As we reached the road , I said to her You'd better go past Dovers' , for if we come down our Little Hill they will see us sure it's baking day . 
All right ! said the Princess , so we went the long way round the section , but goodness me ! when she drove no way was far . 
She said she wanted the broken one , because her father would enjoy seeing it . 
They looked at the goose , at me , the Princess , and each other , and neither said a word . 
She looked back a little bit , and then she laughed as hard as she could . 
Leon grew red , and he grinned ashamed like , so she laughed worse than ever . 
Laddie spoke to me You went to Mr. Pryor's and asked for that goose ? She did not ! said the Princess before I could answer . 
She never asked for anything . 
I wouldn't have had him miss the fun he got from it for any money . 
He laughed like home again . 
Now I must slip away before any one sees me , and spoils our secret . 
Miss Pryor , said Leon , did you care about what I said at you in church that day ? Thou art all fair , my love . 
There is no spot in thee . 
Well , it was a little pointed , but since you ask a plain question , I have survived it . 
I'm awfully sorry , said Leon . 
Of course I never would , if I'd known you could be this nice . 
The Princess looked at Laddie and almost gasped , and then both of them laughed . 
Leon saw that he had told her he was sorry he said she was fair , and no spot in her . 
Oh I don't mean that ! he said . 
Laddie and I followed to the road , where he unhitched the horse and helped her in . 
Then he stood stroking its neck , as he held the bridle . 
I don't know what to say ! said Laddie . 
In such case , I would counsel silence , advised the Princess . 
I hope you understand how I thank you . 
I fail to see what for . 
Father gave the goose to Little Sister . 
Her thanks and Leon's are more than enough for him . 
I insist on adding mine . 
Deep and fervent ! You take everything so serious . 
Can't you see the fun of this ? No , said Laddie . 
But if you can , I am glad , and I'm thankful for anything that gives me a glimpse of you . 
Bye , Little Sister , said the Princess , and when she loosened the lines the mud flew a rod high . 
CHAPTER XI Keeping Christmas Our Way I remember , I remember How my childhood fleeted by , The mirth of its December , And the warmth of its July . 
When dusk closed in it would be Christmas eve . 
All day I had three points a chair beside the kitchen table , a lookout melted through the frost on the front window , and the big sitting room fireplace . 
All the perfumes of Araby floated from our kitchen that day . 
There was the tempting odour of boiling ham and baking pies . 
The air was filled with the smell of more herbs and spices than I knew the names of , that went into mincemeat , fruit cake , plum pudding , and pies . 
It was my task , my delightful all day task , to hang the stockings . 
Father had made me a peg for each one , and I had ten feet of mantel front along which to arrange them . 
But it was no small job to do this to every one's satisfaction . 
If my own stocking lay on the hearth , Candace's had to go in a place that satisfied her that was one sure thing . 
Besides , I had to make up to her for what Leon did , because she was crying into the corner of her apron about that . 
Who does it belong to ? Candace Swartz . 
Bring extra candy , seven quarts She got so angry she just roared , so father made Leon stop it , but I couldn't help laughing myself . 
Then we had to pet her all day , so she'd cheer up , and not salt the Christmas dinner with her tears . 
There never had been such a flurry at our house since I could remember for to morrow would be Christmas and bring home all the children , and a house full of guests . 
Something had happened to her in Chicago . 
I wasn't so sure as I had been about a city being such a dreadful place of noise , bad air , and wicked people . 
She had grown so much that you could see she was larger . 
Her hair and face all of Shelley just shone . 
Her eyes danced , she talked and laughed all the time , and she hugged every one who passed her . 
She never loved us so before . 
Leon said she must have been homesick and coming back had given her a spell . 
I did hope it would be a bad one , and last forever . 
I would have liked for all our family to have had a spell if it would have made them act and look like Shelley . 
The Princess was not a speck lovelier , and she didn't act any nicer . 
I asked father if he noticed how much prettier and nicer she was , and he said he did . 
That was all he would say , but figuring it out was easy . 
But if any one thought I would tell anything I saw when he came they were badly mistaken . 
All of us rushed around like we were crazy . 
If father and mother hadn't held steady and kept us down , we might have raised the roof . 
Mother sat in the dining room beside the kitchen door , so that she could watch the baking , brewing , pickling , and spicing . 
Father drove to town in the sleigh , and the list of things to be purchased mother gave him as a reminder was almost a yard long . 
These they washed and carried to the cellar ready for use . 
It was almost dusk when father came through the kitchen loaded with bundles and found Candace and the girls still cooking . 
We were so excited we could scarcely be gathered around the supper table , and mother said we chattered until she couldn't hear herself think . 
After a while Laddie laid down his fork and looked at our father . 
Have you any objection to my using the sleigh to morrow night ? he asked . 
Had you planned to use it , mother ? Mother said No. If I go , I'll ride in the big sled with all of us . 
It is such a little way , and the roads are like glass . 
So father said politely , as he always spoke to us Then it will give me great pleasure for you to take it , my son . 
That made Leon bang his fork loudly as he dared and squirm in his chair , for well he knew that if he had asked , the answer would have been different . 
He knew our father would love to trust him the same as he did Laddie . 
He wouldn't always prove himself trustworthy , but he envied Laddie . 
You think you'll take the Princess to the spelling bee , don't you ? he sneered . 
I mean to ask her , replied Laddie . 
There was a quick catch in mother's breath and I felt her hand on my chair tremble . 
Father's lips tightened and a frown settled on his face , while Laddie fairly jumped . 
We all knew that he was suffering . 
At last Laddie drew a deep , quivering breath . 
I never thought of that , he said . 
Father's voice fairly boomed down the length of the table . 
Your mother always has found our sleigh suitable , he said . 
The fact was , father was rarely proud of it . 
He had selected the hickory in our woods , cut it and hauled it to the mill , cured the lumber , and used all his spare time for two winters making it . 
We had all watched him and been so proud of it , and now Leon was sneering at it . 
He might just as well have undertaken to laugh at father's wedding suit or to make fun of Clark's Commentaries . 
Laddie appealed to mother Do you think I'd better not ask her ? He spoke with an effort . 
Laddie , that is the first time I ever heard you propose to do any one an injustice , she said . 
I don't see how , said Laddie . 
Has she ever made you feel that anything you offered her or wanted to do for her was not good enough ? Never ! exclaimed Laddie fervently . 
Unless she changes , I would scarcely let a boy's foolish tongue disturb her pleasure . 
Moreover , as to the matter of wealth , your father may be as rich as hers but they have one , we have many . 
I've no doubt she would gladly exchange half she has for the companionship of a sister or a brother in her lonely life . 
Laddie turned to father , and father's smile was happy again . 
Mother was little but she was mighty . 
I suppose Laddie thought he was taking that trip alone , but really he was surrounded . 
I watched him from the window , and my heart went with him . 
Presently father went and sat beside mother's chair , and stroking her hand , whispered softly Please don't worry , little mother . 
It will be all right . 
Your boy will come home happy . 
I hope so , she answered , but I can't help feeling dreadfully nervous . 
If things go wrong with Laddie , it will spoil the day . 
I have much faith in the Princess' good common sense , replied father , and considering what it means to Laddie , it would hurt me sore to lose it . 
Mother sat still , but her lips moved so that I knew she was making soft little whispered prayers for her best loved son . 
But Laddie , plowing through the drift , never dreamed that all of us were with him . 
He really had two , a beautiful book and a necktie . 
It was the very jolliest Christmas we ever had , but the day seemed long . 
When night came we were in a precious bustle . 
Laddie had filled the kitchen oven with bricks and hung up a comfort at four o'clock to keep the Princess warm . 
At least , that is the impression she gave me this morning . 
No foolishness about her , when she has every chance . 
Hurrah for the Princess ! It was easy to see that she wasn't going to have nearly so hard a time changing father's opinion as she would mother's . 
It was not nearly a year yet , and here he was changed already . 
Laddie said good bye to mother he never forgot gathered up his comfort and bricks , and started for Pryors' downright happy . 
We went to the schoolhouse a little later , all of us scoured , curled , starched , and wearing our very best clothes . 
My ! but it was fine . 
There were many lights in the room and it was hung with greens . 
There was a crowd even though it was early . 
Our Shelley was the handsomest girl there , until the Princess came , and then they both were . 
Shelley wore one of her city frocks and a quilted red silk hood that was one of her Christmas gifts , and she looked just like a handsome doll . 
She made every male creature in that room feel that she was pining for him alone . 
But there was not a soul there who didn't have some sort of gift to rejoice over , and laughter and shouts of Merry Christmas ! filled the room . 
It was growing late and there was some talk of choosers , when the door opened and in a rush of frosty air the Princess and Laddie entered . 
Every one stopped short and stared . 
The Princess looked as if she had accidentally stepped from a frame . 
She was always lovely and beautifully dressed , but to night she was prettier and finer than ever before . 
Her dress was of scarlet cloth cut in forms , and it fitted as if she had been melted and poured into it . 
Shelley did go , but I noticed she didn't hurry . 
The choosers began at once , and Laddie was the first person called for our side , and the Princess for the visitors' . 
They had put me in a seat near the fire the spellers lined either wall , and a goodly number that refused to spell occupied the middle seats . 
I couldn't get a glimpse of Laddie or the home folks , or worst of all , of my idolized Princess . 
God never made anything more beautiful than those butterflies , with their wings of brightly painted velvet down , their bright eyes , their curious antennae , and their queer , tickly feet . 
I might have trusted Laddie . 
He never had forgotten me until he did , I should have kept unwavering faith . 
Miss Amelia began with McGuffey's spelling book , and whenever some poor unfortunate made a bad break the crowd roared with laughter . 
Peter Justice stood up to spell and before three rounds he was nodding on his feet , so she pronounced sleepy to him . 
From that on you could call it real spelling . 
They spelled from the grammars , hyperbole , synecdoche , and epizeuxis . 
They spelled from the physiology , chlorophyll , coccyx , arytenoid , and the names of the bones and nerves , and all the hard words inside you . 
They tried the diseases and spelled jaundice , neurasthenia , and tongue tied . 
They tried all the occupations and professions , and went through the stores and spelled all sorts of hardware , china and dry goods . 
Each side kept cheering its own and urging them to do their best , and every few minutes some man in the back of the house said something that was too funny . 
They branched over the country . 
May met her Jonah on the mountains . 
Katahdin was too much for her , and Laddie and the Princess were left to fight it out alone . 
I didn't think Laddie liked it . 
I'm sure he never expected it to turn out that way . 
It was an awful place to put him in , I could see that . 
Many times in later years I have tried to remember when the Princess was loveliest of all , and that night always stands first . 
Laddie was a big man . 
Men were strong on purpose so they could bear things . 
Laddie said , to be the man who conquered the Princess and to whom she lifted her lips for a first kiss was worth life itself . 
I made up my mind that night that he knew just exactly what he was talking about . 
Laddie didn't seem to be the only one who had been well drilled in spelling . 
Laddie nodded emphatically and moving a step nearer laid his elbow across my knees . 
Heavens , how they spelled ! They finished all the words I ever heard and spelled like lightning through a lot of others the meaning of which I couldn't imagine . 
Father never gave them out at home . 
They spelled epiphany , gaberdine , ichthyology , gewgaw , kaleidoscope , and troubadour . 
Then Laddie spelled one word two different ways and the Princess went him one better , for she spelled another three . 
They spelled from the Bible , Nebuchadnezzar , Potiphar , Peleg , Belshazzar , Abimelech , and a host of others I never heard the minister preach about . 
Then they did the most dreadful thing of all . 
They kept that up until I was nearly crazy with nervousness I forgot I was half frozen . 
I pulled Laddie's sleeve and whispered in his ear Do you think she'll cry if you beat her ? I was half crying myself , the strain had been awful . 
I was torn between these dearest loves of mine . 
Seen me have any chance to beat her ? retorted Laddie . 
Father often did that , so Laddie was safe there . 
They were just going it when Miss Amelia pronounced , Terra del Fuego , to the Princess . 
Next ! called Miss Amelia . 
T e r r a , Terra , d e l , del , F e u g o , spelled Laddie . 
Wrong ! wailed Miss Amelia , and our side breathed one big groan in concert , and I lifted up my voice in that also . 
It was well done and satisfied the crowd , which clapped and cheered but as I had heard him spell it many , many times for father , he didn't fool me . 
Laddie and the Princess drew slips for the book and it fell to her . 
He was so pleased he kissed me as he lifted me down and never noticed I was so stiff I could scarcely stand and I did fall twice going to the sleigh . 
Please let me go home . 
I think one glance must have satisfied her that it was true , for she said very kindly that I might , and she would send Leon along to take care of me . 
But my troubles were only half over when I had her consent . 
It was very probable I would be called a baby and sent back when I reached home , so I refused company and started alone . 
It seemed a mile past the cemetery . 
I decided that it would be so very dreadful , that the tears began to roll down my cheeks and freeze before they fell . 
Down the Big Hill slowly I went . 
I struck into the path as always but I was too stiff to run , for I tried . 
I walked on the ice , and being almost worn out , sat on the bridge and fell to watching the water bubbling under the glassy crust . 
Bless me ! Is it you , Little Sister ? she asked . 
Shall I give you a ride home ? Before I could scarcely realize she was there , I was beside her and she was tucking the fine warm robe over me . 
I lifted a pair of dull eyes to her face . 
Oh Princess , I am so glad you came , I said . 
I don't think I could have gone another step if I had frozen on the bridge . 
The Princess bent to look in my face . 
It was that window ! she exclaimed . 
I thought of it , but I trusted Laddie . 
That roused me a little . 
The Princess hugged me close and laughed merrily . 
You darling ! she cried . 
Then she shook me up sharply Don't you dare go to sleep ! she said . 
I must take you home first . 
Once there she quieted my mother's alarm , put me to bed , drove three miles for Dr . 
Fenner and had me started nicely on the road to a month of lung fever , before she left . 
To keep me from that danger sleep on the road , she shook me up and asked about the spelling bee . 
I thought it was the grandest thing I had ever seen in my life , and I told her so . 
She gathered me close and whispered Tell me something , Little Sister , please . 
The minx ! She knew I thought that a far finer title than hers . 
Would Laddie care ? I questioned . 
Not in the least ! Well then , I will . 
Can Laddie spell Terra del Fuego ? she whispered . 
Are you sure ? I have heard him do it over and over for father . 
The Princess forgot I was so sick , forgot her horse , forgot everything . 
She threw her head back and her hands up , until her horse stopped in answer to the loosened line , and she laughed and laughed . 
She laughed until peal on peal re echoed from our Big Woods clear across the west eighty . 
She laughed until her ringing notes set my slow pulses on fire , and started my numbed brain in one last effort . 
Oh you darling , splendid Princess ! I cried . 
Leon said our house reminded him of the mourners' bench before any one had come through . 
He said it was so deadly with Sally and Shelley away , that he had a big notion to marry Susie Fall and bring her over to liven things up a little . 
Mother said she thought that would be a good idea , and Leon started in the direction of Falls' , but he only went as far as Deams' . 
When he came back he had a great story to tell about dogs chasing their sheep , and foxes taking their geese . 
Father said sheep were only safe behind securely closed doors , especially in winter , and geese also . 
There was no answer to that , and Mr. Leon didn't try to make any . 
Mostly , he said something to keep on talking , but sometimes he saw when he had better quit . 
I was having a good time , myself . 
I could have Bobby on the footboard of my bed as long as I wanted him , and he would crow whenever I told him to . 
She was not nearly so sick as I was , though . 
We both grew better together , and , when Dr . 
Fenner brought me candy , she had her share . 
When I began to get well it was lovely . 
Such toast , chicken broth , and squirrels , as mother always had . 
Father would rock me and sing about Young Johnny , just as he had when I was little . 
We always laughed at it , we knew it was a fool song , but we liked it . 
The tune was smooth and sleepy like and the words went One day young Johnny , he did go , Way down in the meadow for to mow . 
The piece I liked best was poetry . 
The ones who really could , were Laddie and the Princess , except mother . 
Maybe I only THOUGHT I loved Laddie best . 
I guess if I had been forced to take my choice when I had the fever , I'd have stuck pretty tight to mother . 
Fenner said if I pulled through she'd have to make me . 
I might have been lying there yet , if it hadn't been for the book Frank sent me , with the poetry piece in it . 
It began Somewhere on a sunny bank , buttercups are bright , Somewhere 'mid the frozen grass , peeps the daisy white . 
I read that so often I could repeat it quite as well with the book shut as open , and every time I read it , I wanted outdoors worse . 
In one place it ran Welcome , yellow buttercups , welcome daisies white , Ye are in my spirit visioned a delight . 
Coming in the springtime of sunny hours to tell , Speaking to our hearts of Him who doeth all things well . 
That piece helped me out of bed , and the blue gander screaming opened the door . 
It was funny about it too . 
Yet that piece filled our meadow until I imagined I could roll on daisies . 
They might be a pest to farmers , but sheets of them were pretty good if you were burning with fever . 
Between the buttercups and the daisies I left the bed with a light head and wobbly legs . 
Of course I wasn't an idiot . 
I knew when I looked from our south window exactly what was to be seen . 
The person who wrote that piece was the idiot . 
It sang and sounded pretty , and it pulled you up and pushed you out , but really it was a fool thing , as I very well knew . 
I couldn't imagine daisies peeping through frozen grass . 
Any baby should have known they bloomed in July . 
Skunk cabbage always came first , and hepatica . 
If I had looked from any of our windows and seen daisies and buttercups in March , I'd have fallen over with the shock . 
I wasn't looking for buttercups and daisies either . 
I mighty well knew there wouldn't be any . 
But the sun was there . 
A little taste of willow , oak and maple was in the air . 
You could see the buds growing fat too , and you could smell them . 
You couldn't hear yourself think for the clatter of the turkeys , ganders , roosters , hens , and everything that had a voice . 
There was everything all ice and mud . 
They had no nests and babies to rejoice over . 
Right there I got that daisy thing figured out . 
THAT was what ailed the gander and the gobbler . 
They hadn't a thing to be thankful for yet , but something inside them was swelling and pushing because of what was coming . 
I simply had to get well and quickly too , for the wonderful time was beginning . 
That was how I came to study out the daisy piece . 
There was nothing in the silly , untrue lines the pull and tug was in what they made you think of . 
Are you worrying about Shelley ? asked father one night . 
Yes , I am , answered mother . 
What do you think is the trouble ? I'm afraid things are not coming out with Mr. Paget as she hoped . 
If they don't , she is going to be unhappy ? That's putting it mildly . 
Well , I was doubtful in the beginning . 
Now hold on , said mother . 
So was I but what are you going to do ? I can't go through the world with my girls , and meet men for them . 
I trained them just as carefully as possible before I started them out that was all I could do . 
Shelley knows when a man appears clean , decent and likable . 
She knows when his calling is respectable . 
She knows when his speech is proper , his manners correct , and his ways attractive . 
She found this man all of these things , and she liked him accordingly . 
At Christmas she told me about it freely . 
Have you any idea how far the thing has gone ? She said then that she had seen him twice a week for two months . 
He seemed very fond of her . 
Of course you told her yes . 
Certainly I told her yes . 
I wish now we'd saved money and you'd gone to visit her and met him when she first wrote of him . 
Had I better go now ? Too late ! said mother , and I could hear her throat go wrong and the choke come into her voice . 
I'll write her to morrow and suggest that you or Laddie pay her a visit and learn what she thinks . 
All right , said father . 
My , but the mother of a family like ours is never short of a lot of things to think of ! I had a new one myself . 
But all women were made alike on the outside , and that was as far as you could see . 
You couldn't find out whether they had pure blood , true hearts , or clean souls . 
No girl could be so very much prettier than Shelley they simply were not made that way . 
She knew how to behave she had it beaten into her , like all of us . 
This world was too much for me . 
I never worked and worried in all my life as I had over Laddie and the Princess , and Laddie said I , myself , never would know how I had helped him . 
Of course nothing was settled he had to try to make her love him by teaching her how lovable he was . 
We knew , because we always had known him , but she was a stranger and had to learn . 
But whatever ailed that man I couldn't possibly think . 
It had got to be him , for Shelley was so all right at Christmas , it made her look that pretty we hardly knew her . 
I was thinking about her until I scarcely could study my lessons , so I could recite to Laddie at night , and not fall so far behind at school . 
Anyway , Miss Amelia never told you a word but what was in the book , and how to read and spell it . 
Leon came in about that time with more fox stories . 
Been in Jacob Hood's chicken house and taken his best Dorking rooster , and father said it was time to do something . 
Laddie told it at Pryors' and the Princess wanted to go she asked to go with him , and if you please , Mr. Pryor wanted to go too , and their Thomas . 
They attended the meeting to tell how people chase foxes in England , where they seem to hunt them most of the time . 
Father said Thank God for even a foxchase , if it will bring Mr. Pryor among his neighbours and help him to act sensibly . 
Laddie had a horn that Mr. Pryor gave him when he told him this country was showing signs of becoming civilized at last but Leon grinned and said he'd beat that . 
Then when you wanted him , he was in the wood house loft at work , but father said he couldn't get into mischief there . 
He should have seen that churn when it was full of wedding breakfast ! We ate for a week afterward , until things were all moulded , and we didn't dare anymore . 
He had a hollow limb about six inches through and fourteen long . 
He had cut and burned it to a mere shell , and then he had scraped it with glass inside and out , until it shone like polished horn . 
He put the skin on damp so he could stretch it tight . 
Then he took it under his arm and we slipped across the orchard below the Station , and went into the hollow and tried it . 
It worked ! I almost fell dead with the first frightful sound . 
It just bellowed and roared . 
In only a little while he found different ways to make it sound by his manner of working the tongue . 
A long , steady , even pull got that kind of a roar . 
A short , quick one made it bark . 
A pull half the length of the thong , a pause , and another pull , made it sound like a bark and a yelp . 
To pull hard and quick , made it go louder , and soft and easy made it whine . 
He said he didn't propose to work as he had , and then have some one find out , and fix one like it . 
He said he wouldn't let it make a sound until the night before the chase , and then he'd raise the dead . 
I don't know about the dead but it was true of the living . 
Then Leon came in and showed us , and every one wanted to work the dumb bell , even mother . 
Leon marched around and showed off he looked See the conquering hero comes , all over . 
I never felt worse about being made into a girl than I did that night . 
I couldn't sleep for excitement , and mother said I might as well , for it would be at least one o'clock before they would round up in our meadow below the barn . 
No wonder I couldn't sleep ! I guess the foxes wouldn't either , if they had known what was coming . 
Maybe hereafter the mean old things would eat rabbits and weasels , and leave the Dorking roosters alone . 
If they had been the foxes , maybe they wouldn't have thought it was so funny but of course , people just couldn't have even their pigs and lambs taken . 
I wanted to get up too , but mother said I should stay in bed until the house was warm , because if I took more cold I'd be sick again . 
He said our back barn door opening from the threshing floor would afford a fine view of the meet , but Candace , May , and Miss Amelia wanted to be closer . 
Leon was to go on foot . 
Father said he would ride a horse to death . 
He just grinned and never made a word of complaint . 
I'm sure that money was stolen like ours , and the owner will claim it ! I feel it in my bones ! Aw , shucks ! said Leon . 
He won't either ! When they started , father took Leon behind him to ride as far as the county line . 
Laddie went to ride with the Princess . 
We could see people moving around in Pryors' barnyard when our men started . 
Candace washed , Miss Amelia wiped the dishes , May swept , and all of them made the beds , and then they went to Deams' , while I stayed with mother . 
When she thought it was time , she bundled me up warmly , and I went to the barn . 
I was really too warm there , and had to take off the scarf , untie my hood , and unbutton my coat . 
It was a trifle muddy , but the frost had not left the ground yet , the sparrows were singing fit to burst , so were the hens . 
I didn't care much for the music of the hen , but I could see she meant well . 
A hen had something was going to be the mother of a large family of them . 
A hen had something to sing about all right , and so had we , when we thought of poached eggs and fried chicken . 
Maybe one reason she sang was because she didn't know what was coming I hardly think she'd be so tuneful if she did . 
Sometimes the geese , shut in the barn , raised an awful clatter , and the horses and cattle complained about being kept from the sunshine and fresh air . 
It was a lovely day , and the big upper door the pleasantest place . 
I didn't care if the fox hunters never came , there was so much to see , hear , and smell . 
Bud perfume was stronger than last week , many doves and bluebirds were calling , and three days more of such sunshine would make cross country riding too muddy to be pleasant . 
I sat there thinking grown people never know how much children do think , they have so much time , and so many bothersome things to study out . 
I heard it behind me , a long , wailing , bellowing roar , and my hood raised right up with my hair . 
I could see nothing , but I heard a roar of dreadful sound steadily closing in a circle around me . 
No doubt the mean old foxes wished then they had let the Dorking roosters alone . 
Closer it came and more dreadful . 
Never again did I want to hear such sounds coming at me even when I knew what was making them . 
To save their skins ! I could hear myself breathe , and feel my teeth click , and my knees knock together . 
And then ! Oh dear ! There they came across our cornfield . 
Two of them ! And they could fly , almost . 
At least you could scarcely see that they touched the ground . 
The mean old things were paying up for the pigs and lambs now . 
Through the fence , across the road , straight toward me they came . 
One second , the first paused to glance toward either side , and threw back its head to listen . 
What it saw , and heard , showed it . 
Oh Lord ! Dear Lord ! Help me ! I prayed . 
It had to be me , there was no one else . 
I fell to the floor and the next thing I knew the doors were shut , and I was back at my place . 
They came pounding , roaring and braying right around the barn , and down the lane . 
The little door flew open and a strange man stuck in his head . 
Shut that door ! I screamed . 
You'll let them in on me , and they bite ! They're poison ! They'll kill me ! I hadn't even thought of it before . 
See any foxes ? cried the man . 
Two crossed our barnyard headed that way ! I cried back , pointing east . 
Shut the door ! The man closed it and ran calling as he went It's all right ! They crossed the barnyard . 
We've got them ! I began to dance and beat my hands , and then I stopped and held my breath . 
They were passing , and the noise was dreadful . 
They struck the sides of the barn , poked around the strawstack , and something made me look up , and at the edge of the hay stood a fox ready to spring . 
If it did , it would go from the door , right into the midst thereof . 
Nothing but my red hood sailing straight at it , and a yell I have , drove it back . 
No one hit the barn again , the line closed up , and went on at a run now , they were so anxious to meet and see what they had . 
Then came the beat of hoofs and I saw that all the riders had dropped back , and were behind the line of people on foot . 
I watched Laddie as he flew past waving to me , and I grabbed my scarf to wave at him . 
Then I sat down suddenly again . 
I was up again straining to see . 
Ep ! Ep ! Over ! rang the cry . 
There they went ! Laddie and the Princess too . 
I'll never spend another cent on paper dolls , candy , raisins , or oranges . 
I'll give all I have to help Leon buy his horse then I'm going to begin saving for mine . 
I couldn't count they moved so , but even at that distance I could see that some were poor little cotton tails . 
The scared things ! A whack over the head , a backward toss , and the dogs were mouthing them . 
I pulled the doors shut suddenly . 
I was so sick I could scarcely stand . 
I had to work , but at last I pushed the west doors open again . 
I don't think the Lord helped me any that time , for I knew what it took before , they just went . 
Or maybe He did help me quite as much , but I had harder work to do my share , because I felt so dizzy and ill . 
I gave them time to hear where the dreadful racket was , and then I jumped to the hay and threw the pitchfork at them . 
It came down smash ! and both of them sprang from the door . 
You saw Leon ! I cried . 
That I did ! she exulted , rocking on her toes the same as she does at the Meeting House when she is going to cry , Glory ! any minute . 
That I did ! Ah ! the brave little chap ! Ah ! the fine fellow ! Her cheeks were the loveliest pink , and her eyes blazed . 
What will father say ? If his father isn't every particle as proud of him as I am this day , I've a big disappointment coming , she answered . 
If Mr. Pryor chose to let him take that fine horse , and taught him how to ride it , father should be glad . 
If he'd gone into the creek , you wouldn't feel so fine . 
He did ! He was about halfway down the lane . 
He was where he could see fine . 
You didn't notice ? I was watching if Leon went under . 
One would have nothing to be ashamed of ! Could you do it , like you are now , and not cry , mother ? I asked wonderingly . 
Patience no ! said she . 
Before long you will find out , child , that the fountain head of tears and laughter lies in the same spot , deep in a woman's heart . 
Men were made for big things ! They must brave the wild animals , the Indians , fight the battles , ride the races , till the fields , build the homes . 
In the making of a new country men must have the thing in their souls that carried Leon across the creek . 
If he had checked that horse and gone to the ford , I would have fallen where I stood ! Father crossed the ford ! True ! But that's different . 
But remember this ! Your father's hand has never faltered , and his aim has never failed . 
All of us are here , safe and comfortable , through him . 
It was your father who led us across the wilderness , and fended from us the wildcat , wolf , and Indian . 
He built this house , cleared this land , and gave to all of us the thing we love . 
Get this in your head straight . 
Your father rode a plow horse he never tried flourishes in riding but no man can stick in the saddle longer , ride harder , and face any danger with calmer front . 
Tell me ! Please tell me ! I begged . 
Elizabeth was only nine months old , and father always said a mite the prettiest of any baby we ever had . 
Well , she was in the cradle , cooing and laughing , and I had my work all done , and cabin shining . 
I was heating a big poker red hot , and burning holes into the four corners of a board so father could put legs in it to make me a bench . 
A greasy old squaw came to the door with her papoose on her back . 
She wanted to trade berries for bread . 
There were berries everywhere for the picking I had more dried than I could use in two years . 
We planted only a little patch of wheat and father had to ride three days to carry to mill what he could take on a horse . 
I baked in an outoven and when it was done , a loaf of white bread was by far the most precious thing we had to eat . 
Sometimes I was caught , and forced to let it go . 
Often I baked during the night and hid the bread in the wheat at the barn . 
There was none in the cabin that day and I said so . 
She set her papoose on the floor beside the fireplace , and went to the cupboard . 
There wasn't a crumb there except cornbread , and she didn't want that . 
She said Brod ! Brod ! She learned that from the Germans in the settlement . 
There was only one thing to do , and I did it . 
I caught that red hot poker from the fire , and stuck it so close her baby's face , that the papoose drew back and whimpered . 
I scarcely saw how she snatched it up and left . 
When your father came , I told him , and we didn't know what to do . 
We knew she would come back and bring her band . 
We endangered any one with whom we sought refuge , so we gripped hands , knelt down and told the Lord all about it , and we felt the answer was to stay . 
Father cleaned the gun , and hours and hours we waited . 
About ten o'clock the next day they came , forty braves in war paint and feathers . 
I counted until I was too sick to see , then I took the baby in my arms and climbed to the loft , with our big steel knife in one hand . 
If your father fell , I was to use it , first on Elizabeth , then on myself . 
The Indians stopped at the woodyard , and the chief of the band came to the door , alone . 
Your father met him with his gun in reach , and for a whole eternity they stood searching each other's eyes . 
I was at the trapdoor where I could see both of them . 
Not once , but again and again in earlier days , he fended danger from me like that . 
I can shut my eyes and see his waving hair , his white brow , his steel blue eyes , his unfaltering hand . 
I don't remember that I had time or even thought to pray . 
I gripped the baby , and the knife , and waited for the thing I must do if an arrow or a shot sailed past the chief and felled father . 
They stood second after second , like two wooden men , and then slowly and deliberately the chief lighted his big pipe , drew a few puffs and handed it to father . 
He set down his gun , took the pipe and quite as slowly and deliberately he looked at the waiting band , at the chief , and then raised it to his lips . 
White squaw brave ! Heap much brave ! said the chief . 
In the strength of the Lord . 
I really got so I liked and depended on them , and father left me in their care when he went to mill , and I was safe as with him . 
I had to be , baby , she said . 
There's only one way to deal with an Indian . 
I had lived among them all my life , and I knew what must be done . 
I think both of you were brave , I said , you , the bravest ! Quite the contrary , laughed mother . 
I shall have to confess that what I did happened so quickly I'd no time to think . 
I only realized the coal red iron was menacing the papoose when it drew back and whimpered . 
It was a terror but I never have been sorry we went through it together . 
I have rested so securely in your father ever since . 
And he is as safe in you , I insisted . 
As you will , said mother . 
This world must have her women quite as much as her men . 
It is shoulder to shoulder , heart to heart , business . 
The clamour in the meadow arose above our voices and brought us back to the foxes . 
There goes another ! I said , the tears beginning to roll again . 
It is heathenish business , said mother . 
I don't blame you ! If people were not too shiftless to care for their stuff , the foxes wouldn't take their chickens and geese . 
They never get ours ! Hoods aren't shiftless ! I sobbed . 
There are always exceptions , said mother , and they are the exception in this case . 
The door flew open and Leon ran in . 
He was white with excitement , and trembling . 
Mother , come and see me take a fence on Pryor's Rocket ! he cried . 
Mother had him in her arms . 
You little whiffet ! she said . 
That will do for to day . 
Ride the horse home slowly , rub it down if they will allow you , and be sure to remember your manners when you leave . 
But , mother , he's been showing me for weeks , or I couldn't have done it to day . 
It was our secret to surprise you . 
When I get my horse , I'll be able to ride a little , as well as Mr. Laddie . 
Leon , don't , said mother , gripping him tighter . 
You must bear in mind , word about that money may come any day . 
Aw , it won't either , said Leon , pulling away . 
And say , mother , that dumb bell was like country boys make in England . 
Say , mother , take my word , he was some pumpkins in England . 
I bet he ordered the Queen around , when he was there ! No doubt ! laughed mother , kissing him and pushing him from the door . 
Some people are never satisfied . 
They said they lost them in our Big Woods . 
I didn't care one speck . 
And if the foxes took Hoods' Dorkings again , let them build a coop with safe foundations . 
The way was to use stone and heap up dirt around it in the fall , to be perfectly sure , and make it warmer . 
We took care of our chickens because we had to have them . 
All the year we needed them , but most especially for Easter . 
Mother said that was ordained chicken time . 
Turkeys for Thanksgiving , sucking pigs for Christmas , chickens for Easter , goose , she couldn't abide . 
She thought it was too strong . 
I am going to quit praying about little things I can manage myself . 
Father said no prayer would bring an answer unless you took hold and pulled with all your being for what you wanted . 
I had been intending for days to ask the Lord to help me find where Leon hid his Easter eggs . 
If we could locate the hiding place of any one else , we might take all theirs . 
The day before Easter they were brought in , mother put aside what she required , and the one who had the most got to sell all of them and take the money . 
Sometimes there were two washtubs full , and what they brought was worth having , for sure . 
So we watched all year for safe places , and when the time came we almost ran after the hens with a basket . 
Because Laddie and Leon were bigger they could outrun us , and lots of hens laid in the barn , so there the boys always had first chance . 
Often during the month we would find and take each other's eggs a dozen times . 
We divided them , and hid part in different places , so that if either were found there would still be some left . 
May had hers some place , and where Leon had his , none of us could find or imagine . 
I almost lay awake of nights trying to think , and every time I thought of a new place , the next day I would look , and they wouldn't be there . 
Three days before Easter , mother began to cook and get the big dinner ready , and she ran short of eggs . 
She told me to go to the barn and tell the boys that each of them must send her a dozen as quickly as they could . 
Of course that was fair , if she made both give up the same number . 
So I went to the barn . 
The lane was muddy , and as I had been sick , I wore my rubbers that spring . 
I thought to keep out of the deep mud , where horses and cattle trampled , I'd go up the front embankment , and enter the little door . 
My feet made no sound , and it so happened that the door didn't either , and as I started to open it . 
I saw Leon disappearing down the stairway , with a big sack on his back . 
He said he'd give me two dozen of his , and Leon could pay him back . 
We went together to get them , and there was only one there . 
If he had no time at all , then he'd go with his eyes twinkling over the thoughts of the fun it would have been if he possibly could have managed it . 
We hurried out and tried to find him , but he was swallowed up . 
You couldn't see him or hear a sound of him anywhere . 
Mother was as cross as she ever gets . 
Right there she made a new rule , and it was that two dozen eggs must be brought to the house each day , whether any were hidden or not . 
She had to stop baking until she got eggs . 
She said a few times she had used a goose egg in custard . 
I knew where one of our gray geese had a nest , and if she'd cook any goose egg , it would be a gray one . 
Of course I had sense enough not to take a blue one . 
So I slipped from the east door , crossed the yard and orchard corner , climbed the fence and went down the lane . 
There was the creek up and tearing . 
It was half over the meadow , and the floodgate between the pasture and the lane rocked with the rush of water still , I believed I could make it . 
So I got on the fence and with my feet on the third rail , and holding by the top one , I walked sidewise , and so going reached the floodgate . 
It was pretty wobbly , but I thought I could cross on the run . 
I knew I could if I dared jump at the other end but there the water was over the third rail , and that meant above my head . 
It was right at that time of spring when you felt so good you thought you could do most anything , except fly I tried that once so I went on . 
She had built on a little high place , among puddles , wild rose bushes , and thorns , and the old thing wouldn't get off . 
She just sat there and stuck out her head and hissed and hissed . 
I never noticed before that geese were so big and so aggravating . 
I wasn't going to give up , after that floodgate , so I hunted a big stick , set it against her wing , pushed her off and grabbed three eggs and ran . 
When I got to the fence , I was in a pickle for sure . 
I didn't know what in the world to do with the eggs . 
At last I unbuttoned my coat , put them in my apron front , gathered it up , and holding it between my teeth , started back . 
That was a good plan . 
At last one lark went almost from sight and he rang , twisted and trilled his call , until my heart swelled so big it hurt . 
I crossed on the jump with no time to think at all . 
That was a fine plan , for I made it , but I hit the post so hard I broke the middle egg . 
Mother was so pleased about the eggs she changed the apron and never said a word , except to brag on me . 
She said she couldn't keep house without me , and I guess that was a fact . 
I came in handy a lot of times . 
The boys laughed , but father said it was no laughing matter . 
Gracious ! He should have seen us going to school some days . 
Why , we even walked the top rail when it was the only one above water , and we could cross the bridge if we wanted to . 
At least when Laddie or Miss Amelia was not around , we did . 
Father said that was fair , so Leon went out and before so very long he came back with the eggs . 
She had an hour to rest , and she was going to spend it fixing decorations for our eggs . 
Of course there were always red and black aniline ones , and yellow and blue , but none of us ever like them half so well as those mother coloured , herself . 
And sometimes the onion skins slipped , and made things of themselves that she never put on . 
I was coming from the bin with an apron full of skins and I almost fell over . 
I couldn't breathe for a long time . 
I danced on my toes , and held my mouth to keep from screaming . 
On the garret floor before me lay a little piece of wet mud , and the faintest outline of a boot , a boot about Leon's size . 
That was all I needed to know . 
NOW he'd see what he'd get for taking Laddie's ! Then I stopped short . 
He never looked pleased at all , so I knew I had been right . 
He kissed me , and thanked me , and then said slowly It's mighty good of you , Little Sister , but you see it wouldn't be FAIR . 
He found mine himself , so he had a right to take them . 
But I don't dare touch his , when you tell me where they are . 
I never in a month of Sundays would have looked for them in the house . 
I was going to search the wood house and smoke house this afternoon . 
But thank you just as much . 
Then I went to father and he laughed . 
How he did laugh ! Laddie is right ! he said at last . 
He didn't find them , and he mustn't take them . 
But you may ! They're yours ! That front door scheme of Leon's was fairly well , but it wasn't quite good enough . 
If he'd cleaned his feet as he should , before he crossed mother's carpet and climbed the stairs , he'd have made it all right . 
His tracks betrayed him , as tracks do all of us , if we are careless enough to leave any . 
The eggs are yours , and to night is the time to produce them . 
But when I did think , I liked it . 
The more I thought , the funnier it grew . 
Under mother's bed , I whispered . 
But I never can get them . 
They're in wheat sacks , and full so high , and they'll have to be handled like eggs . 
I'll do the carrying , laughed father . 
Come show me ! So we took all those eggs , and put them under mother's bed . 
Of course she and Candace saw us , but they didn't hunt eggs and they'd never tell . 
After a while he came in , fussed around , and finally went into the sitting room , and the key turned and he went upstairs . 
When I did get a peep , gracious but he was black ! Maybe it wasn't going to be so much fun after all . 
But he had the money last year , and the year before , and if he'd cleaned his feet well I was not hunting his eggs , when I found them . 
His tracks betrayed him , as father said . 
I was thankful supper was ready just then , and while it was going on mother said As soon as you finish , all bring in your eggs . 
I want to wrap the ones to colour to night , and bury them in the fireplace so they will colour , dry , and be ready to open in the morning . 
No one said a word , but neither Laddie nor Leon looked very happy , and I took awful bites to keep my face straight . 
When all of us finished May brought a lot from the bran barrel in the smoke house , but Laddie and Leon only sat there and looked silly it really was funny . 
I must have more eggs than this ? said mother . 
Easy son ! said father . 
You lost through your own carelessness . 
You left wet mud on the garret floor , and she saw it when mother sent her for the onion skins . 
You robbed Laddie of his last egg this morning be a good loser yourself ! Well , anyway , you didn't get 'em , said Leon to Laddie . 
When the table was cleared , Laddie and Leon made tallow pencils from a candle and wrote all sorts of things over eggs that had been prepared to colour . 
The onion ones would be done in the morning . 
It came out real pretty with roses on it and lots of words he wouldn't let any of us read but of course it was for Susie Fall . 
Next morning he slipped it to her at church . 
How is he making it ? asked Sally . 
You could see she was making it all right she never looked lovelier , and mother said Peter was letting her spend away too much money on her clothes . 
All I know is , said mother , that he goes there every whipstitch , and the women , at least , seem glad to have him . 
He says Mr. Pryor treats him decently , and that is more than he does his own family and servants . 
He and the girl and her mother are divided about something . 
She treats her father respectfully , but she's in sympathy with mother . 
Laddie can't find out what the trouble is ? I don't think that he tries . 
Maybe he'd feel better not to know , said Peter . 
You seem to be reconciled , said Elizabeth . 
That girl would reconcile a man to anything , said father . 
Not to the loss of his soul , I hope , said mother stiffly . 
Souls are not so easy to lose , said father . 
Besides , I am counting on Laddie saving hers . 
CHAPTER XIII The Garden of the Lord With what content and merriment , Their days are spent , whose minds are bent To follow the useful plow . 
That spring I decided if school didn't stop pretty soon , I'd run away again , and I didn't in the least care what they did to me . 
He said our language was founded on the alphabet , and to master it you had to begin with a . 
He said Atlas in the geography book , carrying the world on his back , was only a symbol , but it was a good one . 
Our road was like the barn floor , where you drove on each side was a wide grassy strip , and not a weed the length of our land . 
He said that was such a shortsighted proceeding , he would be ashamed to indulge in it . 
They swarmed over those trees until spring , for the tiny sour apples stuck just like oak leaves waiting for next year's crop to push them off . 
She never noticed us , either . 
After a few frosts , we could almost get tipsy on those apples there was not a tree in our orchard that had the spicy , teasing tang of Johnny Appleseed's apples . 
You could graft red haws on them too , and grow great big , little haw apples , that were the prettiest things you ever saw , and the best to eat . 
Father said if it didn't spoil the looks of the road , he wouldn't care how many of his neighbours straightened their fences . 
He said he would much rather have a few good apples picked by robins or jays , than untouched trees , loaded with wormy falling ones he could neither use nor sell . 
The windows should be cut to the floor , and stand wide open , so the birds and butterflies could pass through . 
You should do your arithmetic sitting under trees adding hickory nuts , subtracting walnuts , multiplying butternuts , and dividing hazelnuts . 
You could use apples for fractions , and tin cups for liquid measure . 
You could spell everything in sight and this would teach you the words that are really used in the world . 
Every single one of us could spell incompatibility , but I never heard father , or the judge , or even the Bishop , put it in a speech . 
I bet if Polly Martin wore a blue calico dress so short her spindle shanks showed , and flew across our farm , you couldn't tell her from a heron . 
One day they had thumped and fought for half an hour she had looked from every window in the room , and at last there was an awful whacking , and then silence . 
It grew so exciting I raised my hand , and almost before she nodded permission , Which whipped ? I asked . 
Miss Amelia turned red as a beet . 
Gee , but she was mad ! I did ! she said . 
Or at least I will . 
You may remain for it after school is dismissed . 
At that instant from the fence not far from my window came a triumphant crow that fairly ripped across the room . 
Oh , it was the Dorking ! I said . 
I had to be careful after that to be mighty good to May and Leon . 
When school was out they sat on the steps before the door and waited . 
Miss Amelia fussed around and there they sat . 
Then her face grew more gobblerish than usual , and she went out and told them to go home . 
Plain as anything I heard May say It She's been awful sick , you know , and mother wouldn't allow it . 
And then Leon piped up You DID watch the roosters , all the time they fought , and of course all of us wanted to see just as badly as you did . 
She told them if they didn't go right home she'd bring them back and whip them too so they had to start , and leave me to my sad fate . 
She arranged her table , cleaned the board , emptied the water bucket , and closed the windows . 
Then she told me I was a rude , untrained child . 
She said if I wanted her to love me , I mustn't be a saucy , impudent girl , and I should go straight home and think it over . 
If you cried , we were coming back and pitch into her , said Leon . 
Next time , first cut she gave me , I decided to scream bloody murder . 
But that would be no Crusader way . 
There was one thing though . 
No Crusader ever sat and heard a perfectly lovely fight going on , and never even wondered which whipped . 
There we sat on a log , I told them , and we just laughed . 
I didn't know what I could do to pay them , for they saved me sure as fate that time . 
I wished we lived in the woods the way it was when father and mother were married and moved to Ohio . 
I wished father had time to take our school . 
When I went to supper one night father had been to Groveville , and he was busy over his papers . 
Well that beats me ! I had faith in that prayer I was going to make , and here the very thing I intended to ask for happened before I prayed . 
I had almost scared it to death , and it arose on flapping wings and paid me back by frightening me so I screamed as I dodged its shadow . 
What is all this ? asked father behind me . 
Come up and take a seat , and I'll try to tell you , I said . 
His hair curled a little and it was black and fine . 
His cheeks were pink and his eyes the brightest blue , with long lashes , and heavier brows than any other man I ever have seen . 
He was the best looking always so clean and fresh , and you never had to be afraid of him , unless you had been a bad , sinful child . 
So I explained all this , and more too . 
Every little thing that troubled me or that I wanted , I told him . 
I do indeed ! said father . 
But I had thought of this running short of school funds as a calamity . 
If I had been praying about it , I would have asked Him to show me a way to raise money to continue until middle May at least . 
Oh father ! I just crumpled up in his arms and began to cry to save me I couldn't help it . 
At last he said I think you are a little overstrained this spring . 
Maybe you were sicker than we knew , or are growing too fast . 
Don't worry any more about school . 
Possibly father can fix it . 
I never learned lessons so quick and so easy in all my life father , Laddie , and every one of them had to say so . 
One night , father said to Laddie This child is furnishing evidence that our school system is wrong , and our methods of teaching far from right . 
We are not going at children in a way to gain and hold their interest , and make them love their work . 
There must be a better way of teaching , and we should find different teachers . 
You'll have to try the school next year yourself , Laddie . 
I have a little plan about a piece of land I am hoping to take before then , answered Laddie . 
It's time for me to try my wings at making a living , and land is my choice . 
I stick to the soil ! Amen ! cried father . 
I hate to see sons of mine thriving on law , literally making their living out of the fruit of other men's discord . 
I dislike seeing them sharpen their wits in trade , buying at the lowest limit , extorting the highest . 
After all , land and its products are the basis of everything the city couldn't exist a day unless we feed and clothe it . 
In the things that I consider important , you are a king among men , with your feet on soil you own . 
So I figure it , said Laddie . 
And you are the best educated man I have reared , said father . 
Take this other thought with you on land , the failure of the bank does not break you . 
The fire another man's carelessness starts , does not wipe out your business or home . 
You are not in easy reach of contagion . 
Any time you want to branch out , your mother and I will stand back of you . 
Thank you ! said Laddie . 
You backed none of the others . 
I'll make the best start I can myself , and as they did , stand alone . 
Father looked at him and smiled slowly . 
You are right , as always , he said . 
I hadn't thought so far . 
At any rate , let me inspect and help you select your land . 
That of course ! said Laddie . 
I suspect it's not a very nice thing for me to tell , but all of us were tickled silly the day Miss Amelia packed her trunk and left for sure . 
Mother said she never tried harder in all her days , but Miss Amelia was the most distinctly unlovable person she ever had met . 
As he sang Leon stretched out his arms after her vanishing form . 
I like hoptoads , owls , and shitepokes . 
So no one was any gladder than I when she was gone . 
After that , spring came pushing until you felt shoved . 
Our family needed me then . 
If they never had known it before , they found out there was none too many of us . 
Every day I had to watch the blue goose , and bring in her egg before it was chilled , carrying it carefully so it would not be jarred . 
I had to hunt the turkey nests and gather their eggs so they would be right for setting . 
There had to be straw carried from the stack for new nests , eggs marked , and hens set by the dozen . 
Garden time came , so leaves had to be raked from the beds and from the dooryard . 
Coming from church that Sunday , when we reached the top of the Big Hill , mother touched father's arm . 
You know the spot , don't you ? You may well believe I know it , said father . 
I can hit it to the inch . 
When we decided the Ohio land was not quite what we wanted , she sent me farther west to prospect , while she stayed at home and kept the baby . 
When I reached this land , found it for sale , and within my means , I bought it , and started home happy . 
She raised one hand and laid it on the lamp near him . 
He shifted the lines , picked up her hand , and held it tight . 
Mother stood there looking , just silently looking . 
Made you almost crazy to know what they said . 
The Little Creek flowed at our feet across the road , through the blue flag swamp , where the red and the yellow birds lived . 
Suddenly she raised her face to father . 
Paul , she said , that first day , did you ever dream it could be made to look like this ? No ! said father . 
What is it , Ruth ? The Home Feeling ! said mother . 
It is in my heart so big this morning I am filled with worship . 
Just filled with the spirit of worship . 
She was rocking on her toes like she does when she becomes too happy at the Meeting House to be quiet any longer , and cries , Glory ! right out loud . 
She pointed to the orchard , an immense orchard of big apple trees in full bloom , with two rows of peach trees around the sides . 
It looked like a great , soft , pinkish white blanket , with a deep pink border , spread lightly on the green earth . 
That's exactly what I did , said father . 
Many's the hour , all told , that I have stopped my horse on one of these hilltops and studied how to make the place beautiful , as well as productive . 
That was a task you set me , my girl . 
You always considered BEAUTY as well as USE about the house and garden , and wherever you worked . 
I had to hold my part in line . 
You have made it all a garden , said mother . 
You have made it a garden growing under the smile of the Master a very garden of the Lord , father . 
Father drew up her hand and held it tight against his heart . 
Your praise is sweet , my girl , sweet ! he said . 
I have tried , God knows I have tried , to make it first comfortable , then beautiful , for all of us . 
To the depths of my soul I thank Him for this hour . 
I am glad , Oh I am so glad you like your home , Ruth ! I couldn't endure it if you complained , found fault and wished you lived elsewhere . 
Why , father ! said my mother in the most surprised voice . 
Why , father , it would kill me to leave here . 
We have made it by and through the strength of the Lord and our love for each other . 
I wish we had a row the length of it ! They wouldn't grow , said father . 
Now we'll go home and have our dinner and a good rest . 
I'm a happy woman this day , father , a happy , happy woman . 
Thy faith hath made thee whole , quoted father . 
Times when he had us children out alone , he went until you couldn't see the spokes in the wheels . 
He just loved to speed up once in a while on a piece of fine road to let us know how going fast felt . 
Mother sat there trembling a little , smiling , misty eyed . 
I was thinking , for I knew what the fly in the ointment was . 
In the start she didn't want to go at all , unless she could stay three years , at the very least . 
Next morning mother was feeling fine , the world was lovely , Miss Amelia was gone , May was home to help , so she began housecleaning by washing all the curtains . 
She had been in the kitchen to show Candace how . 
I slid from the tree , ran and opened the gate , and led the way up the walk . 
I opened the front door and asked him in , and then I did the wrong thing . 
The instant I saw mother's face , I knew what I had done . 
I had made a mess of it . 
There she came right in the door , just as she was from the tub . 
Her cheeks were pink , her eyes bright , her lips red as a girl's , and her neck was soft and white . 
The V shaped place showed a little spot like baby skin , right where her neck went into her chest . 
Sure as father kissed her lips , he always tipped back her head , bent lower and kissed that spot too . 
I had seen hundreds of them go there , and I had tried it myself , lots of times , and it WAS the sweetest place . 
Seeing what I had done , I stopped breathless . 
You have to beat most everything you teach a child right into it properly to keep it from making such a botch of things as that . 
I hardly dared to peep at mother , but when I did , she took my breath worse than the mistake I had made . 
Caught , she stood her ground . 
She never paused a second . 
Straight to him she went , holding out her hand , and I could see that it was red and warm from pressing the lace in the hot suds . 
Mother asked him to be seated , so he took one of the chairs nearest him , and sat holding his hat in one hand , his whip in the other . 
Mother drew a chair beside the dining table , dropped her hands on each other , and looking in his eyes , she smiled at him . 
Then as I watched her for how she felt decided what would happen to me , after Mr. Pryor was gone I saw something I never had noticed until that minute . 
She could laugh all over her face , before her lips parted until her teeth showed . 
She was doing it now . 
With a wide smile running from cheek to cheek , pushing up a big dimple at each end , her lips barely touching , her eyes dancing , she sat looking at him . 
This IS the most blessed season for warming up the heart , she said . 
If you want the half of my kingdom , ask quickly . 
I'm in the mood to bestow it . 
How she laughed ! He just had to loosen up a little , and smile back , even though it looked pretty stiff . 
Well , I'll not tax you so far , he said . 
I only want Mr. Stanton . 
But he is the whole of the kingdom , and the King to boot ! she laughed , dimpled , and flamed redder . 
Mr. Pryor stared at her wonderingly . 
You could even see the wonder , like it was something you could take hold of . 
I suppose he wondered what could make a woman so happy , like that . 
Lucky man ! he said . 
All of us are not so fortunate . 
Then it must be you don't covet the place or the title , said mother more soberly . 
Any woman will crown the man she marries , if he will allow her . 
I wonder how ! said Mr. Pryor , his eyes steadily watching mother's face . 
By never failing in a million little things , that taken as a whole , make up one mighty big thing , on which he stands like the Rock of Ages . 
Yet they tell me that you are the mother of twelve children , he said , as if he marvelled at something . 
Yes ! cried mother , and the word broke right through a bubbling laugh . 
She reached out , laid a hand on me , drew me to her , and lightly touched my arm , sending my spirits sky high . 
He couldn't quit that , no matter how cross he was . 
The funniest thing came into my mind . 
I'll bet all I got , he'd have turned to stonier stone than Sabethany . 
You could see that no one ever served HIM like that in all his old , cold , hard , cross , mysterious , shut in life . 
It was enough to stand beside mother , and hear every word they said . 
What was more , she wanted me , because she kept her hand on mine , or touched my apron every little while . 
I'm so sorry ! she said . 
He was called to town on business . 
The County Commissioners are sitting to day . 
They are deciding about the Groveville bridge , and pike ? Yes . 
He is working so hard for them . 
The devil you say ! I beg pardon ! But it was about that I came . 
I'm three miles from there , and I'm taxed over sixty pounds for it . 
But you cross the bridge every time you go to town , and travel the road . 
Groveville is quite a resort on account of the water and lovely country . 
Paul is very anxious to have the work completed before the summer boarders come from surrounding cities . 
We are even farther from it than you but it will cost us as much . 
They will benefit us and our children through all the years to come . 
Talk about the land of the free' ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
This is a tax ridden nation . 
It's a beastly outrage ! Ever since I came , it's been nothing but notice of one assessment after another . 
I won't pay it ! I won't endure it . 
I'll move ! Mother let go of me , gripped her hands pretty tight together on the table , and she began to talk . 
As for freedom no man ever was , or is , or will be free , she said , quite as forcibly as he could speak . 
You certainly studied the situation . 
Studied the situation' ! His whip beat across his knee . 
Studied the situation' ! My leaving England was er the result of intolerable conditions there in the nature of flight from things not to be endured . 
I had only a vague idea of the States . 
If England is intolerable , and the United States an outrage , I don't know where in this world you'll go , said mother softly . 
Mr. Pryor stared at her sharply . 
Madame is pleased to be facetious , he said sneeringly . 
Mother's hands parted , and one of them stretched across the table toward him . 
Forgive me ! she cried . 
I know you are in dreadful trouble . 
I'd give I'd almost give this right hand to comfort you . 
I'd do nearly anything to make you feel that you need bear no burden alone that we'd love to help support you . 
I believe you would , he said slowly , his eyes watching her again . 
I wonder why ! All men are brothers , in the broader sense , said mother , and if you'll forgive me , your face bears marks of suffering almost amounting to torture . 
She stretched out the other hand . 
You couldn't possibly let us help you ? Slowly he shook his head . 
Think again ! urged mother . 
A trouble shared is half over to start with . 
We'll not discuss it , he said . 
You can't possibly imagine the root of my trouble . 
I shan't try ! said mother . 
You're a load on my shoulders , without your consent . 
I have implored God , I shall never cease to implore Him , until your brow clears , your head is lifted , and your heart is at rest . 
You can't prevent me ! This hour I shall go to my closet and beg Him to have mercy on your poor soul , and when His time comes , He will . 
You can't help yourself , or you would have done so , long ago . 
You must accept aid ! This must end , or there will be tragedy in your house . 
Madame , there has been ! said Mr. Pryor , shaking as he sat . 
I recognize that , said mother . 
The question is whether what has passed is not enough . 
You simply cannot understand ! he said . 
Mr. Pryor , she said , you're in the position of a man doubly bereft . 
You are without a country , and without a God . 
Your face tells every passer by how you are enjoying that kind of life . 
Forgive me , if I speak plainly . 
I haven't a doubt in my mind but that your trouble is not one half so dreadful as you imagine while brooding over it . 
Let me tell you how we feel about this road matter . 
You see we did our courting in Pennsylvania , married and tried Ohio , and then came on here . 
We took this land when it was mostly woods . 
We moved into the cabin that was on the land first , later built a larger one , and finally this home as we had planned it . 
Every fruit tree , bush , vine , and flower we planted . 
Here our children have been born , lived , loved , and left us some for the graveyard down yonder , some for homes of their own . 
Always we have planned and striven to transform this into the dearest , the most beautiful spot on earth . 
In making our home the best we can , in improving our township , county , and state , we are doing our share toward upbuilding this nation . 
She put in the birds to keep away the worms , the trees to break the wind , the creeks to save the moisture . 
She whanged him , and she banged him , up one side , and down the other . 
She didn't stop to be mincy . 
She shot things at him like a man talking to another man who had plenty of sense but not a particle of reason . 
She gave him the reason . 
She told him exactly why , and how , and where , and also just WHAT he must do to feel RIGHT toward his neighbours , his family , and his God . 
No preacher ever talked half so well . 
Yea verily , she was as interesting as the Bishop himself , and far pleasanter to look at . 
When she ran short of breath , and out of words , she reached both hands toward him again . 
OH DO PLEASE THINK OF THESE THINGS ! she begged . 
Do try to believe that I am a sensible person , and know what I am talking about . 
Madame , said Mr. Pryor , there's no doubt in my mind but you are the most wonderful woman I ever have met . 
Surely I believe you ! Surely I know your plan of life is the true , the only right way . 
It is one degree added to my humiliation that the ban I am under keeps me from friendly intercourse with so great a lady . 
Lady' ? said my mother , her eyes widening . 
Lady' ? Now it is you who are amused . 
I don't understand ! he said . 
Certainly you are a lady , a very great lady . 
Goodness , gracious me ! cried my mother , laughing until her dimples would have held water . 
That's the first time in all my life I was ever accused of such a thing . 
Again , I do not comprehend , said Mr. Pryor , as if vexed about all he would endure . 
Mother laughed on , and as she did so she drew back her hands and studied them . 
Then she looked at him again , one pink dimple flashing here and there , all over her face . 
Well , to begin at the root of the matter , she said , that is an enormous big word that you are using lightly . 
Any one in petticoats is not a lady by no means ! A lady must be born of unsullied blood for at least three generations , on each side of her house . 
Think for a minute about where you are going to fulfil that condition . 
Then she must be gentle by nature , and rearing . 
She must know all there is to learn from books , have wide experience to cover all emergencies , she must be steeped in social graces , and diplomatic by nature . 
She must rise unruffled to any emergency , never wound , never offend , always help and heal , she must be perfect in deportment , virtue , wifehood and motherhood . 
She must be graceful , pleasing and beautiful . 
She must have much leisure to perfect herself in learning , graces and arts Madame , you draw an impossible picture ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
I draw the picture of the only woman on earth truly entitled to be called a lady . 
You use a good word lightly . 
I have told you what it takes to make a lady now look at me ! How she laughed ! Mr. Pryor looked , but he didn't laugh . 
More than ever you convince me that you are a lady , indeed , he said . 
My dear man ! she cried , I'm the daughter of a Dutch miller , who lived on a Pennsylvania mountain stream . 
There never was a school anywhere near us , and father and mother only taught us to work . 
Paul Stanton took a grist there , and saw me . 
He married me , and brought me here . 
He taught me to read and write . 
I learned my lessons with my elder children . 
He has always kept school in our house , every night of his life . 
Our children supposed it was for them I knew it was quite as much for me . 
While I sat at knitting or sewing , I spelled over the words he gave out . 
I know nothing of my ancestors , save that they came from the lowlands of Holland , down where there were cities , schools , and business . 
They were well educated , but they would not take the trouble to teach their children . 
As I have spoken to you , my husband taught me . 
All I know I learn from him , from what he reads aloud , and places he takes me . 
I exist in a twenty mile radius , but through him , I know all lands , principalities and kingdoms , peoples and customs . 
I need never be ashamed to go , or afraid to speak , anywhere . 
Indeed not ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
By all accounts , a lady would have reached for her smelling salts and gracefully fainted away in fact , a lady never would have been in such a place at all . 
Once I was driven to face a big squaw , and threatened the life of her baby with a red hot poker while she menaced mine with a hunting knife . 
There is not one cold , rough , hard experience of pioneer life that I have not endured . 
Many's the night I have shivered in a barn doctoring sick cattle and horses we could ill afford to lose . 
Time and again I have hung on and brought things out alive , after the men gave up and quit . 
A lady ? How funny ! The amusement is all on your part , Madame . 
So it seems ! said mother . 
But you see , I know so well how ridiculous it is . 
I thank God for any part I have been able to take . 
That is life work for any woman , and to be a good woman is the greatest thing on earth . 
Never mind about the ladies if you can honestly say of me , she is a good woman , you have paid me the highest possible tribute . 
I have nothing to change , in the face of your argument , said Mr. Pryor . 
Our loved Queen on her throne is no finer lady . 
That time mother didn't laugh . 
She looked straight at him a minute and then she said Well , for an Englishman , as I know them , you have said the last word . 
Higher praise there is none . 
But believe me , I make no such claim . 
To be a good wife and mother is the end toward which I aspire . 
To hold the respect and love of my husband is the greatest object of my life . 
You stand a monument to wifehood your children prove your idea of motherhood , said Mr. Pryor . 
How in this world have you managed it ? The members of your family whom I have seen are fine , interesting men and women , educated above the average . 
It is not idle curiosity . 
I am deeply interested in knowing how such an end came to be accomplished here on this farm . 
I wish you would tell me just how you have gone about schooling your children . 
By educating ourselves before their coming , and with them afterward . 
Self control , study , work , joy of life , satisfaction with what we have had , never ending strife to go higher , and to do better Dr . 
Fenner laughs when I talk of these things . 
He says he can take a little naked Hottentot from the jungle , and educate it to the same degree that I can one of mine . 
From the start we have rigorously guarded our speech and actions before them . 
From the first tiny baby my husband has taught all of them to read , write and cipher some , before they went to school at all . 
Sometimes there has been a little of all of it in one day , always reading , spelling , and memory exercises at night . 
He has a sister who twice in her life has repeated the Bible as a test before a committee . 
He , himself , can go through the New Testament and all of the Old save the books of the generations . 
He always says he considers it a waste of gray matter to learn them . 
She has to bake bread , pie , cake , and cook any meat or vegetable we have . 
She has had her bolt of muslin to make as she chose for her bedding , and linen for her underclothing . 
The quilts she pieced and the blankets she wove have been hers . 
All of them have been as well provided for as we could afford . 
They can knit , darn , patch , tuck , hem , and embroider , set a hen and plant a garden . 
I go on a vacation and leave each of them to keep house for her father a month , before she enters a home of her own . 
They are strong , healthy girls I hope all of them are making a good showing at being useful women , and I know they are happy , so far at least . 
Wonderful ! said Mr. Pryor . 
They must be able to select good seed grain , boil sap , and cure meat . 
As yet I'm sorry to say but one of them has come back to the land . 
You mean Laddie ? Yes . 
He has decided to be a farmer ? He is determined to make the soil yield his living . 
I am sorry sorry indeed to hear it , said Mr. Pryor . 
He has brain and education to make a brilliant figure at law or statesmanship he would do well in trade . 
What makes you think he would not do well on land ? Wasted ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
He would be wasted ! Hold a bit ! said mother , her face flushing as it did when she was very provoked . 
My husband is , and always has been , on land . 
He is far from being wasted . 
He is a power in this community . 
He has sons in cities in law and in trade . 
Not one of them has the friends , and the influence on his time , that his father has . 
Any day he says the word , he can stand in legislative halls , and take any part he chooses in politics . 
All this is news to me , said Mr. Pryor . 
You didn't expect us to come over , force our way in and tell you ? It was his turn to blush and he did . 
Laddie has been at our house often , he said . 
He might have mentioned Mother laughed . 
She was the gayest that morning . 
He might , but he never would . 
Neither would I if you hadn't seemed to think that the men who do the things Mr. Stanton REFUSES to do are the ones worth while . 
He could accomplish much in legislative halls . 
He figures in the large . 
Besides , he really loves his land , his house , and family . 
He says no man has a right to bring twelve children into the world and not see personally to rearing and educating them . 
He thinks the farm and the children too much for me , and he's sure he is doing the biggest thing for the community at large , to go on as he does . 
Perhaps so , said Mr. Pryor slowly . 
I make no doubt ! said mother , lifting her head proudly . 
And as Laddie feels and has fitted himself , I look to see him go head and shoulders above any other son I have . 
Trade is not the only way to accumulate . 
Law is not the only path to the legislature . 
Comfort , independence , and freedom , such as we know here , is not found in any city I ever have visited . 
We think we have the best of life , and we are content on land . 
But we make no complaint . 
We could have branched off into fifty different things after we had a fair start here . 
We didn't , because we preferred life as we worked it out for ourselves . 
To own land , and to love it , is a wonderful thing , Mr. Pryor . 
She made me think of something . 
Ever since I had added to my quill and arrow money , the great big lot at Easter , father had shared his chest till with me . 
I wasn't to touch a thing , save my own , and I never did but I knew precious well what was there . 
He picked it up and held it a minute , until he finished what he was saying to mother , and then he looked at it . 
Then he looked long and hard . 
Then he straightened up and looked again . 
God bless my soul ! he cried . 
You see when he was so astonished he didn't know what he was saying , he called on God , just as father says every one does . 
I took a side look at mother . 
Her face was a little extra flushed , but she was still smiling so I knew she wasn't angry with me , though of course she wouldn't have shown the thing herself . 
She and father never did , except as each of us grew big enough to be taught about the Crusaders . 
Father said he didn't care the snap of his finger about it , except as it stood for hardihood and bravery . 
But Mr. Pryor cared ! He cared more than he could say . 
Stanton house ! he repeated . 
Why why , the name ! It's scarcely possible , but But there it is ! laughed mother . 
A mere bauble for show and amounting to nothing on earth save as it stands a mark for brave men who have striven to conquer . 
Surgere tento ! read Mr. Pryor , from the little shield . 
Four shells ! Madame , I know men who would give their lives to own this , and to have been born with the right to wear it . 
It came to your husband in straight line ? Yes , said mother , but generations back . 
He only saves it for the children . 
It goes to your eldest son ? By rights , I suppose it should , said mother . 
But father mentioned it the other night . 
At our death it goes to Laddie I am quite sure . 
Well , I hope I hope , said Mr. Pryor , that the young man has the wit to understand what this would mean to him in England . 
His wit is just about level with his father's , said mother . 
He never has been in England , and most probably he never will be . 
I don't think it means a rap more to Laddie than it does to my husband . 
The child of my family to whom that trinket really means something is Little Sister , here . 
When Leon came in with the thief , I thought he should have it but after all , she is the staunchest little Crusader I have . 
Mr. Pryor looked me over with much interest . 
Yes , yes ! No doubt ! he said . 
He apologized for staying so long , and mother said it hadn't been long , and asked him the nicest ever to come again . 
She walked in the sunlight with him and pointed out the chestnuts . 
They wandered around the yard and into the garden . 
She sent me to bring a knife , trowel , and paper , so when he started for home , he was carrying a load of cuttings , and roots to plant . 
Some of it must have been joy carried over from yesterday . 
Praise God , the wedge is in ! she cried . 
What has happened , mother ? he asked . 
Mr. Pryor came over about the road and bridge tax , and oh Paul ! I've said every word to him I've been bursting to say from the very start . 
Every single word , Paul ! How did he take it ? Time will tell . 
Anyway , he heard it , all of it , and he went back carrying a load of things to plant . 
Only think of that ! Once he begins planting , and watching things grow , the home feeling is bound to come . 
Any objections to my beginning to break ground on the west eighty to day ? asked Laddie of father at breakfast Monday morning . 
I had thought we would commence on the east forty , when planning the work . 
So had I , said Laddie . 
Father looked at him sharply , and so , I think , did all of us . 
And because we loved him deeply , we saw that his face was a trifle pale for him his clear eyes troubled , in spite of his laughing way . 
He knew we were studying him too , but he wouldn't have said anything that would make us look and question if he had minded our doing it . 
That was exactly like Laddie . 
He meant it when he said he hated a secret . 
He didn't wait for father to ask why he'd changed his mind about the place to begin . 
Oh Laddie ! cried mother . 
Abominable foolishness ! roared father like he does roar once in about two years . 
Isn't it now ? asked Laddie sweetly . 
I don't know what has got into her head . 
She has seen me plowing fifty times since their land has joined ours , and she never objected before . 
I can tell you blessed well ! said mother . 
She didn't care two hoots how much my son plowed , but it makes a difference when it comes to her lover . 
Be serious ! said father sternly . 
This is no laughing matter . 
That's precisely why I am laughing , said Laddie . 
Father tried to look stern , but he just had to laugh . 
All right then , plow it ! he said . 
What did she say ? asked mother . 
Phew ! Laddie threw up both hands . 
She must have been bottled some time on the subject . 
The ferment was a spill of considerable magnitude . 
The flood rather overwhelmed me , because it was so unexpected . 
I had been taking for granted that she accepted my circumstances and surroundings as she did me . 
On more than a friendly footing' ? repeated mother . 
You have her exact words , said Laddie . 
What did you say ? Nothing ! I am going to plow the answer . 
Please don't object to my beginning this morning . 
You try yourself all winter to get as far as you have , and then upset the bowl like this ? cried mother . 
Softly , mummy , softly ! said Laddie . 
What am I to do ? I've definitely decided on my work . 
I see land and life , as you and father taught me , in range and in perspective far more than you've got from it . 
You had a first hand wrestle . 
The land I covet has been greatly improved already . 
I can do what I choose with it , making no more strenuous effort than plowing and I am proud to say that I LOVE to plow . 
I like my feet in the soil . 
I want my head in the spring air . 
I can become almost tipsy on the odours that fill my nostrils . 
Music evolved by the Almighty is plenty good enough for me . 
I'm proud of a spanking big team , under the control of a touch or a word . 
I enjoy farming , and I am going to be a farmer . 
Plowing is one of the most pleasing parts of the job . 
Mother , I hope you don't mind if I take your grays . 
I'll be very careful but the picture I present to my girl to day is going to go hard with her at best , so I'd like to make it level best . 
He arose , went around and knelt beside mother . 
He took her , chair and all , in his arms Best of mothers ! on my breast Lean thy head , and sink to rest . 
Mammy , he asked bending toward her , am I clean ? You goose ! she said , putting her arms around him and holding him tight . 
Gander love , said Laddie , turning up his face for a kiss . 
All of you know how perfectly repulsive he is and always has been to me . 
That's an ugly word ! There are a whole lot of unpleasant things that peep around corners occasionally , said Laddie . 
But whoever of you dear people it was that showed Mr. Pryor the Crest of Eastbrooke , brought out this particular dragon for me to slay . 
Tut , tut ! Now what does that mean ? said father . 
Have we had a little exhibition of that especial brand of pride that goes before a fall ? We have ! and I take the tumble , said Laddie . 
Watch me start ! Jack fell down and broke his crown . 
Question will Jill come tumbling after ? My heart stopped and I was shaking in my bare feet , because I wore no shoes to shake in . 
Oh my soul ! No matter how Laddie jested I knew he was almost killed the harder he made fun , the worse he was hurt . 
I opened my mouth to say I did it , I had to , but Leon began to talk . 
Well , I think she's smart ! he cried . 
You're sure you are all signed , sealed , and delivered on this plowing business , are you ? asked Leon . 
Dead sure ! said Laddie . 
All right , if you like it ! said Leon . 
None for me after college ! But say , you can be a farmer and not plow , you know . 
You go trim the trees , and work at cleaner , more gentlemanly jobs . 
I'd just as soon as not . 
I plowed last year and you said I did well , didn't you , father ? Yes , on the potato patch , said father . 
A cornfield is a different thing . 
I fear you are too light . 
Oh but that was a year ago ! cried Leon . 
He pushed back his chair and went to father . 
Just feel my biceps now ! Most like steel ! he boasted . 
A fellow can grow a lot in a year , and all the riding I've been doing , and all the exercise I've had . 
Cert' I can plow that meadow . 
You're all right , shaver , said Laddie . 
I'll not forget your offer but in this case it wouldn't help . 
Either the Princess takes her medicine or I take mine . 
I'm going to live on land I'm going to plow in plain sight of the Pryor house this week , if I have to hire to Jacob Hood to get the chance . 
May I plow , and may I take the grays , father ? Yes ! said father roundly . 
Then here goes ! said Laddie . 
You needn't fret , mother . 
I must give a concert simultaneous with this plowing performance , and I'm particular about the music , so I can't go too fast . 
Also , I'll wrap the harness . 
Goodness knows I'm not thinking about the horses , said mother . 
My soul and body ! AND I HAD DONE IT ! I might as well get it over . 
I showed Mr. Pryor the trinket , I said . 
How did you come to do that ? asked father sternly . 
When he was talking with mother . 
He told her Laddie would be wasted' farming Wasted ? That's what he said . 
Mother told him you had always farmed and you were a power in this community . 
I THOUGHT it would help And so it will , said mother . 
They constantly make the best showing they can , we might as well , too . 
The trouble is they got more than they expected . 
Now they seem to demand that we quit work Move to the city , sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam , suggested father . 
They'll have to find out we are running our own business but I'm sorry it fell to Laddie to show them . 
You could have done it better . 
It will come out all right . 
The Princess is not going to lose a man like Laddie on account of how he makes his money . 
Don't be too confident , said father . 
With people of their stripe , how much money a man can earn , and at what occupation , constitute the whole of life . 
Yesterday she had been so happy she almost flew . 
Pretty soon we heard a racket on the road , so we went out . 
There was Laddie with the matched team of carriage horses and a plow . 
Now , in dreadfully busy times , father let Ned and Jo work a little , but not very much . 
They were not plow horses they were roadsters . 
They liked to prance , and bow their necks and dance to the carriage . 
It shamed them to be hitched to a plow . 
They drooped their heads and slunk along like dogs caught sucking eggs . 
But they were a sight on the landscape . 
They were lean and slender and yet round too , matched dapple gray on flank and side , with long snow white manes and tails . 
No wonder mother didn't want them to work . 
Laddie had reached through the garden fence and hooked a bunch of red tulips and yellow daffodils . 
The red was at Jo's ear , and the yellow at Ned's , and they did look fine . 
Bobolink in maple high , trills a note of glee , Farmer boy in gay reply now whistles cheerily . 
The chorus was all whistle , and it was written for folks who could . 
It went up until it almost split the echoes , and Laddie could easily sail a measure above the notes . 
As for me , I kept from sight . 
For a week Laddie whistled and plowed . 
He wore that tune threadbare , and got an almost continuous pucker on his lips . 
Leon said if he didn't stop whistling , and sing more , the girls would think he was doing a prunes and prisms stunt . 
So after that he sang the words , and whistled the chorus . 
But he made no excuse to go , and he didn't go , to Pryors' . 
When Sunday came , he went to Westchester to see Elizabeth , and stayed until Monday morning . 
Not once that week did the Princess ride past our house , or her father either . 
By noon Monday Laddie was back in the field , and I had all I could bear . 
He was neither whistling nor singing so much now , because he was away at the south end , where he couldn't be seen or heard at Pryors' . 
He almost scoured the skin from him , and he wore his gloves more carefully than usual . 
If he soiled his clothing in the least , and it looked as if he would make more than his share of work , he washed the extra pieces at night . 
Tuesday morning I hurried with all my might , and then I ran to the field where he was . 
I climbed on the fence , sat there until he came up , and then I gave him some cookies . 
He stopped the horses , climbed beside me and ate them . 
Then he put his arms around me and hugged me tight . 
Laddie , do you know I did it ? I wailed . 
Did you now ? said Laddie . 
No , I didn't know for sure , but I had suspicions . 
You always have had such a fondness for that particular piece of tinware . 
But Laddie , it means so much ! Doesn't it ? said Laddie . 
A few days ago no one could have convinced me that it meant anything at all to me , or ever could . 
Just look at me now ! Don't joke , Laddie ! Something must be done . 
Well , ain't I doing it ? asked Laddie . 
Look at all these acres and acres of Jim dandy plowing ! Don't ! I begged . 
Why don't you go over there ? No use , Chicken , said Laddie . 
You see her exact stipulation was that I must CHANGE MY OCCUPATION before I came again . 
What does she want you to do ? Law , I think . 
Unfortunately , I showed her a letter from Jerry asking me to enter his office this fall . 
I just couldn't , and I just won't ! What can you do ? I might compromise on stock , he said . 
I could follow the same occupation as her father , and with better success . 
Neither he nor his men get the best results from horses . 
They don't understand them , especially the breeds they are attempting to handle . 
Most Arab horsemen are tent dwellers . 
They travel from one oasis to another with their stock . 
At night their herds are gathered around them as children . 
As children they love them , pet them , feed them . 
Each is named for a divinity , a planet or a famous ruler , and the understanding between master and beast is perfect . 
A beast of that breed , jerked , kicked , and scolded is a fine horse ruined . 
If I owned half the stock Mr. Pryor has over there , I could put it in such shape for market that I could get twice from it what his men will . 
Are Thomas and James rough with the horses ? Like master , like man , quoted Laddie . 
They are ! They are foolish with the Kentucky strain , and fools with the Arab and yet , that combination beats the world . 
But I must get on with the P. C. job . 
He slid from the fence , took a drink from his water jug , and pulled a handful of grass for each horse . 
As he stood feeding them , I almost fell from the top rail . 
Look ! Mr. Pryor is halfway across the field on Ranger . 
Now I wonder Shall I go ? No indeed ! said Laddie . 
Stay right where you are . 
It can't be anything of much importance . 
At first it didn't seem to be . 
They talked about the weather , the soil , the team . 
Laddie scooped a handful of black earth , and holding it out , told Mr. Pryor all about how good it was , and why , and he seemed interested . 
Then they talked about everything until if he had been Jacob Hood , he would have gone away . 
But just at the time when I expected him to start , he looked at Laddie straight and hard . 
I missed you Sabbath evening , he said . 
Then I looked at him . 
He had changed , some way . 
He seemed more human , more like our folks , less cold and stern . 
I sincerely hope it was unanimous , said Laddie . 
Mr. Pryor had to laugh . 
It was a majority , at any rate . 
You see that was kind of a joke . 
An easy one , because I caught it but we were not accustomed to expecting a jest from Mr. Pryor . 
Not one of us dreamed there was a joke between his hat crown and his boot soles . 
Then Laddie laughed but he sobered quickly . 
I'm mighty sorry if Mrs. Pryor missed me , he said . 
I have grown to be her devoted slave , and I hoped she liked me . 
You put it mildly , said Mr. Pryor . 
Since you didn't come when she expected you , we've had the worst time with her that we have had since we reached this da ah er um this country . 
Could you make any suggestion ? asked Laddie . 
I could ! I would suggest that you act like the sensible fellow I know you to be , and come as usual , at your accustomed times . 
But I'm forbidden , man ! cried Laddie . 
Ugh ! Such awful things as Mr. Pryor said . 
Is a man's roof his own , or is it not ? While I live , I propose to be the head of my family . 
I invite you ! I ask you ! Mrs. Pryor and I want you ! What more is necessary ? TWO things , said Laddie , just as serenely . 
That Miss Pryor wants me , and that I want to come . 
Now wasn't that a good fight ? he inquired . 
I'm mighty proud of it ! But not now , or ever , do I wish to enter your house again , if Miss Pryor doesn't want , and welcome me . 
Then he went over , took Mr. Pryor's horse by the head , and began working with its bridle . 
It didn't set right some way , and Mr. Pryor had jerked , spurred , and mauled , until there was a big space tramped to mortar . 
Laddie slid his fingers beneath the leather , eased it a little , and ran his hands over the fretful creature's head . 
It just stopped , stood still , pushed its nose under his arm , and pressed against his side . 
Mr. Pryor arose in one stirrup , swung around and alighted . 
He looped an arm through the bridle rein , and with both hands gripped his whipstock . 
How the devil do you do it ? he asked , as if he were provoked . 
First , the bridle was uncomfortable next , you surely know , Mr. Pryor , that a man can transfer his mental state to his mount . 
Laddie pointed to the churned up earth . 
THAT represents your mental state THIS he slid his hand down the neck of the horse portrays mine . 
Mr. Pryor's face reddened , but Laddie was laughing so heartily he joined in sort of sickly like . 
Oh I doubt if you are so damnably calm ! he cried . 
I'm CALM enough , so far as that goes , said Laddie . 
I'm not denying that I've got about all the heartache I can conveniently carry . 
If ever I felt sorry for any one , I did then for Mr. Pryor . 
Um er he said at last . 
I see ! said Laddie . 
If I could , and she gave me permission , then I intended coming to you the instant I knew how she felt . 
But in such a case as this , I don't think I shall find the slightest hesitation in telling you anything you want to know , that I am able . 
You don't know how you stand with her ? Laddie took off his hat and ran his fingers through his hair . 
His feet were planted widely apart , and his face was sober enough for any funeral now . 
I've been trying to figure that out , he said slowly . 
I believe the situation is as open to you as it is to me . 
She was a desperately lonely , homesick girl , when she caught my eye and heart and I placed myself on her horizon . 
I found a way to let her see that I wanted to be friends , and she accepted my friendship , and at the same time allowed it go only so far . 
You probably have seen her meet and entertain her friends frequently . 
I should think you would be more nearly able to gauge my standing with her than I am . 
You haven't told her that you love her ? Haven't I though ? cried Laddie . 
Man alive ! What do you think I'm made of ? Putty ? Told her ? I've told her a thousand times . 
I've said it , and sung it and whistled it , and looked it , and lived it . 
Told her ? Ye Gods ! I should say I've told her ! If any of Pryors had been outdoors they certainly could have heard Mr. Pryor . 
How he laughed ! He shook until he tottered . 
Laddie took his arm and led him to the fence . 
He lifted a broad top rail , pushed it between two others across a corner and made a nice comfortable seat for him . 
After a while Mr. Pryor wiped his eyes . 
Laddie stood watching him with a slow grin on his face . 
And she hasn't given the signal you are waiting for ? he asked at last . 
Laddie slowly shook his head . 
Nary the ghost of a signal ! he said . 
Now we come to Sunday before last . 
I only intimated , vaguely , that a hint of where I stood would be a comfort and played Jonah . 
The whale swallowed me at a gulp , and for all my inches , never batted an eye . 
You see , a few days before I showed her a letter from my brother Jerry , because I thought it might interest her . 
There was a culmination like a thunder clap in a January sky . 
And for answer you've split the echoes with some shrill , abominable air , and plowed , before her very eyes , for a week ! Then Laddie laughed . 
Do you know , he said that's a good one on me ! It never occurred to me that she would not be familiar with that air , and understand its application . 
I listened to it by the hour , myself , trying to make out exactly what it did mean . 
It seemed to combine defiance with pleading , and through and over all ran a note of glee that was really quite charming . 
You have quoted a part of it , literally , said Laddie . 
A note of glee' the cry of a glad heart , at peace with all the world , busy with congenial work . 
I shouldn't have thought you'd have been so particularly joyful . 
Oh , the joy was in the music , said Laddie . 
That was a whistle to keep up my courage . 
The joy was in the song , not in me ! Last week was black enough for me to satisfy the most exacting pessimist . 
I wish you might have seen the figure you cut ! That fine team , flower bedecked , and the continuous concert ! But I did ! cried Laddie . 
That song can't be beaten . 
I know this team is all right , and I'm not dwarfed or disfigured . 
That was the pageant of summer passing in review . 
It represented the tilling of the soil the sowing of seed , garnering to come later . 
You buy corn and wheat , don't you ? They are vastly necessary . 
Much more so than the settling of quarrels that never should have taken place . 
But if you will believe it , he was laughing again . 
I prefer that you don't , said Laddie , or on Ranger either . 
See how he likes being gentled . 
Then he straightened and drew a deep breath . 
I never in my whole life have had enough impure blood in my body to make even one tiny eruption on my skin . 
I never have been ill a day in my life . 
I never have touched a woman save as I lifted and cared for my mother , and hers , or my sisters . 
As to my family and education she can judge for herself . 
I offer her the first and only love of my heart . 
She objects to farming , because she says it is dirty , offensive work . 
There are parts of it that are dirty . 
Thank God , it only soils the body , and that can be washed . 
Will you kindly tell her that word for word , and that I asked you to ? Mr. Pryor was standing before I saw him rise . 
He said those awful words again , but between them he cried You're right ! It's the truth ! It's the eternal truth ! It IS the truth , said Laddie . 
I've only to visit the offices , and examine the business of those of my family living by law , to KNOW that it's the truth . 
Of course there's another side ! There are times when there are great opportunities to do good I recognize that . 
To some these may seem to overbalance that to which I object . 
If they do , all right . 
I am merely deciding for myself . 
Once and for all , for me it is land . 
It is born in me to love it , to handle it easily , to get the best results from stock . 
I am going to take the Merriweather place adjoining ours on the west , and yours on the south . 
I had thought to fix up the place and begin farming . 
If Miss Pryor has any use whatever for me , and prefers stock , that is all right with me . 
I'll go into the same business she finds suitable for you . 
I can start in a small way and develop . 
I can afford a maid for her from the beginning , but I couldn't clothe her as she has been accustomed to being dressed , for some time . 
I would do my best , however . 
I know what store my mother sets by being well gowned . 
And as a husband , I can offer your daughter as loving consideration as woman ever received at the hands of man . 
You are a physical specimen to be reckoned with , and I believe what you say of yourself . 
There's something so clean and manly about you , it amounts to confirmation . 
A woman should set her own valuation on that and the height of it should correspond with her knowledge of the world . 
Thank you ! said Laddie . 
You are more than kind ! more than generous ! As to the arrangements you could make for Pamela , said Mr. Pryor , she's all we have . 
Everything goes to her , ultimately . 
She has her stipulated allowance now whether in my house or yours , it would go with her . 
Surely you wouldn't be so callous as to object to our giving her anything that would please us ! Why should I ? asked Laddie . 
That's only natural on your part . 
Your child is your child no matter where or what it is , you expect to exercise a certain amount of loving care over it . 
My father and mother constantly send things to their children absent from home , and they take much pleasure in doing it . 
That is between you and your daughter , of course . 
I shouldn't think of interfering . 
Mr. Pryor sat down so suddenly , the rail almost broke . 
I thought the truth was , that he had heart trouble , himself . 
He stopped up , choked on things , flopped around , and turned so white . 
I suppose he thought it was womanish , and a sign of weakness . 
and so he didn't tell , but I bet anything that he had it bad ! I'll try to make the little fool see ! he said . 
Gently , gently ! You won't help me any in that mood , said Laddie . 
The chances are that Miss Pryor repeated what she heard from you long ago , and what she knows you think and feel , unless you've changed recently . 
That's the amount of it ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
All my life I've had a lot of beastly notions in my head about rank , and class , and here they don't amount to a damn ! There's no place for them . 
You certainly make a friend at court . 
But you won't come until she does ? Man alive ! I can't ! cried Laddie . 
Your daughter said positively exactly what she meant . 
It was unexpected and it hit me so hard I didn't try to argue . 
I simply took her at her word , her very explicit word . 
Fool ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
The last thing on earth any woman ever wants or expects is for a man to take her at her word . 
Will you ? Yes , said Mr. Pryor , I will . 
I'll keep cool and do my best , but I am so unfortunate in my temper . 
I could manage slaves better than women . 
This time I'll be calm , and reason things out with her , or I'll blow out my brains . 
Don't you dare ! laughed Laddie . 
You and I are going to get much pleasure , comfort and profit from this world , now that we have come to an understanding . 
Mr. Pryor arose and held out his hand . 
You see , said Mr. Pryor , I've been thinking things over deeply , deeply ! ever since talking with your mother . 
I find myself watching them , watching them daily , and oftener , and there seems to be a sort of home feeling creeping around my heart . 
I wish Pamela would listen to reason ! I wish she would marry you soon ! I wish there would be little children . 
Nothing else on earth would come so close to comforting my wife , and me also . 
Nothing ! Go ahead , lad , plow away ! I'll put your special pleading up to the girl . 
He clasped Laddie's hand , mounted and rode back to the gate he had entered when he came . 
Laddie sat on the rail , so I climbed down beside him . 
He put his arm around me . 
Do I feel any better ? he asked dubiously . 
Of course you do ! I said stoutly . 
You feel whole heaps , and stacks , and piles better . 
You haven't got him to fight any more , or Mrs. Pryor . 
It's now only to convince the Princess about how it's all right to plow . 
Small matter , that ! said Laddie . 
And easy ! Just as simple and easy ! Have you asked the Fairies to help you ? Aye , aye , sir , said Laddie . 
Also the winds , the flowers , the birds and the bees ! I have asked everything on earth to help me except you , Little Sister . 
And anyway , in the long run , I must be honest enough to admit that it may have helped . 
It may be , you can't tell ! Anyway , it's very evident that it did no real harm . 
And forget my jesting , Chicken . 
A man can't always cry because there are tears in his heart . 
I think quite as much of that crest as you do . 
In the sum of human events , it is a big thing . 
No one admires a Crusader more than I. No one likes a good fight better . 
No Crusader ever put up a stiffer battle than I have in the past week while working in these fields . 
Every inch of them is battlefield , every furrow a separate conflict . 
Gaze upon the scene of my Waterloo ! When June covers it with green , it will wave over the resting place of my slain heart ! Oh Laddie ! I sobbed . 
There you go again ! How can you ? Whoo pee ! cried Laddie . 
That's the question ! How can I ? Got to , Little Sister ! There's no other way . 
No , I was forced to admit , there isn't . 
What are we going to do now ? Life saver , we'll now go to dinner , said Laddie . 
Nothing except the partnership implied in we' sustains me now . 
Of course her father had made a botch of it ! Bet I could have told her Laddie's message straighter than he did . 
I could think it over , and see exactly how he'd do . 
He'd talk nicely about one minute , and the first word she said , that he didn't like , he'd be ranting , and using unsuitable words . 
Just as like as not he told her that he'd lay his whip across her shoulders , like he had Laddie . 
Sunday Laddie went to Lucy's . 
He said he was having a family reunion on the installment plan . 
Of course we laughed , but none of us missed the long look he sent toward Pryors' as he mounted to start in the opposite direction . 
I didn't see how it could , but it did . 
Father and mother had quit worrying about God especially father . 
He seemed to think that God and Laddie could be trusted to take care of the Princess , and I don't know exactly what mother thought . 
No doubt she saw she couldn't help herself , and so she decided it was useless to struggle . 
The plowing on the west side was almost finished , and some of the seed was in . 
Laddie went straight ahead flower trimmed and whistling until his face must have ached as badly as his heart . 
And you couldn't help seeing the roundness and the colour go from his face , a little more every day . 
My ! but being in love , when you couldn't have the one you loved , was the worst of all . 
I hadn't tried the one big prayer toward the east yet but I was just about to the place where I intended to do it soon . 
CHAPTER XV Laddie , the Princess , and the Pie O whistle , and I'll come to you , my lad . 
Candace was baking the very first batch of rhubarb pies for the season and the odour was so tempting I couldn't keep away from the kitchen door . 
As I reached for the generous big piece I thought of Laddie poor Laddie , plowing away at his Crusader fight , and not a hint of victory . 
No one in the family liked rhubarb pie better than he did . 
I knew there was no use to ask for a plate . 
Wait oh wait ! I cried . 
I ran to the woodshed , pulled a shining new shingle from a bale stacked there , and held it for Candace . 
Then I slipped around the house softly . 
I didn't want to run any one's errands that morning . 
I laid the pie on the horseblock and climbed the catalpa carefully , so as not to frighten my robins . 
I hunted the biggest leaf I could see , and wiped it clean on my apron , although it was early for much dust . 
It covered the pie nicely , because it was the proper shape , and I held the stem with one hand to keep it in place . 
If I had made that morning myself I couldn't have done better . 
It seemed to wash right through and through and make you all over . 
The longer you breathed it the clearer your head became , and the better you felt , until you would be possessed to try and see if you really couldn't fly . 
I tried that last summer , and knocked myself into jelly . 
You'd think once would have been enough , but there I was going down the road with Laddie's pie , and wanting with all my heart to try again . 
Sometimes I raced , but I was a little afraid the pie would shoot from the shingle and it was like pulling eye teeth to go fast that morning . 
I loved the soft warm dust , that was working up on the road . 
Spat ! Spat ! I brought down my bare feet , already scratched and turning brown , and laughed to myself at the velvety feel of it . 
There were little puddles yet , where May and I had dipped and faded last fall , and it was fun to wade them . 
The roadsides were covered with meadow grass and clover that had slipped through the fence . 
On slender green blades , in spot after spot , twinkled the delicate bloom of blue eyed grass . 
Never in all this world was our Big Creek lovelier . 
Oh there's no use to try it was just SPRING when it couldn't possibly be any better . 
I was going along being very careful the more I thought about how he would like it , so I was not watching the road so far ahead as I usually did . 
I always kept a lookout for Paddy Ryan , Gypsies , or Whitmore's bull . 
For days I'd been in a ferment , like the vinegar barrel when the cider boils , or the yeast jar when it sets too close to the stove . 
To have Laddie and the Princess separated was dreadful , and knowing him as I did , I knew he never really would get over it . 
I had tried to help once , and what I had done started things going wrong no wonder I was slow about deciding what to try next . 
Here was my chance coming right at me . 
She was far up the road , riding Maud like racing . 
I began to breathe after a while , like you always do , no matter how you are worked up , and with my brain whirling , I went slowly toward her . 
I only wish you might have seen her that morning . 
Of course the morning was part of it . 
A morning like that would make a fence post better looking . 
Half a mile away you could see she was tipsy with spring as I was , or the song sparrows , or the crazy babbling old bobolinks on the stakes and riders . 
She made such a bright splash against the pink fence row , with her dark hair , flushed cheeks , and red lips , she took my breath . 
Father said she was the loveliest girl in three counties , and Laddie stretched that to the whole world . 
Now if the Princess was gleaming and flashing like that , for the same reason , there wasn't any one for her to love so far as I knew , except Laddie . 
Then smash ! came another thought . 
She HAD to love him ! She couldn't help herself . 
I was in for it . 
Then I didn't know what to do next , but she helped me out . 
What have you there ? she asked . 
I bet she never saw a nicer piece . 
The Princess slid her hand down Maud's neck to quiet her prancing , and leaned in the saddle , her face full of interest . 
I couldn't see a trace of anything to discourage me her being on our road again looked favourable . 
She seemed to think quite as much of that pie as I did . 
She was the finest little thoroughbred . 
She understood so well , I was sorry I couldn't give it to her . 
It made her mouth water all right , for she drew a deep breath that sort of quivered but it was no use , she didn't get that pie . 
I think it looks delicious , she said . 
Are you carrying it for Candace ? No ! She gave it to me . 
And you're doing without it yourself to carry it to Laddie , I'll be bound ! cried the Princess . 
I'd much rather , I said . 
Do you love Laddie so dearly ? she asked . 
I have been wanting to see you , she said at last . 
In fact I think I came this way hoping I'd meet you . 
Do you know the words to a tune that goes like this ? Then she began to whistle The Merry Farmer Boy . 
I wish you might have heard the flourishes she put to it . 
Of course I do , I answered . 
All of us were brought up on it . 
Well , I have some slight curiosity to learn what they are , she said . 
Would you kindly repeat them for me ? Yes , I said . 
This is the first verse See the merry farmer boy tramp the meadows through , Swing his hoe in careless joy while dashing off the dew . 
Bobolink in maple high Of course you can see for yourself that they're not . 
There isn't a single one of them higher than a fence post . 
The person who wrote the piece had to put it that way so high would rhyme with reply , which is coming in the next line . 
I see ! said the Princess . 
Bobolink in maple high , trills a note of glee Farmer boy a gay reply now whistles cheerily . 
Then you whistle the chorus like you did it . 
You do indeed ! said the Princess . 
Proceed ! Then the farmer boy at noon , rests beneath the shade , Listening to the ceaseless tune that's thrilling through the glade . 
Long and loud the harvest fly winds his bugle round , Long , and loud , and shrill , and high , he whistles back the sound . 
He does ! He does indeed ! I haven't a doubt about that ! cried the Princess . 
Long , and loud , and shrill , and high , he whistles over and over the sound , until it becomes maddening . 
Is that all of that melodious , entrancing production ? No , evening comes yet . 
My life ! cried the Princess . 
Was that he doing those bird cries ? Why , I hunted , and hunted , and so did father . 
We'd never seen a whip poor will . 
Just fancy us ! If you'd only looked at Laddie , I said . 
My patience ! cried the Princess . 
Looked at him ! There was no place to look without seeing him . 
And that ear splitting thing will ring in my head forever , I know . 
Now any one knows that tulips and daffodils are NOT modest and shrinking . 
If any flowers just blaze and scream colour clear across a garden , they do . 
She was provoked , you could see that . 
Well , he only did it to please you , I said . 
He didn't care anything about it . 
He never plowed that way before . 
Greatly obliged , I'm sure ! cried the Princess . 
He showed me ! He certainly did ! And so he feels that there's no escaping' plowing , does he ? Then I knew where I was . 
I'd have given every cent of mine in father's chest till , if mother had been in my place . 
Well , you see , he CAN'T escape it , I said . 
He'd do anything in all this world for you that he possibly could but there are some things no man CAN do . 
I didn't suppose there was anything you thought Laddie couldn't do , she said . 
A little time back , I didn't , I answered . 
And of course you don't mind telling me what that is ? coaxed the Princess in her most wheedling tones . 
Not at all ! He told our family , and I heard him tell your father . 
No , a city wouldn't be like this , she said slowly . 
And that isn't even the beginning , I said . 
Not one of us ever in our lives have been able to make him quarrel , even one word . 
But he can't make Laddie fuss , and nobody can . 
He NEVER would at school , or anywhere . 
That's what he said about you , that you had to take your medicine I made a mistake there . 
That made her too mad for any use . 
Oh , she cried , I do ? I'll jolly well show the gentleman ! Oh , you needn't take the trouble , I cried . 
He's showing you ! She just blazed like she'd break into flame . 
Any one could fuss with her all right but that was the last thing on earth I wanted to do . 
You see he already knows about you , I explained as fast as I could talk , for I was getting into an awful mess . 
You see he knows that you want him to be a lawyer , and that he must quit plowing before he can be more than friends with you . 
That's what he's plowing for ! If it wasn't for that , probably he wouldn't be plowing at all . 
He asked father to let him , and he borrowed mother's horses , and he hooked the flowers through the fence . 
I ventured an upward peep . 
Her temper seemed to be cooling , but her face was a jumble . 
I couldn't find any one thing on it that would help me , so I just stumbled ahead guessing at what to say . 
He didn't WANT to do it . 
Those fields were his Waterloo . 
Every furrow was a FIGHT , but he was FORCED to show you . 
Exactly WHAT was he trying to show me ? I can think of three things he told me , I answered . 
That plowing could be so managed as not to disfigure the landscape The dunce ! she said . 
That he could plow or do dirtier work , and not be repulsive The idiot ! she said . 
That he was FORCED The soldier ! she said . 
Oh Princess , he didn't want to ! I cried . 
He tells me secrets he doesn't any one else , unless you . 
He told me how he hated it but he just had to do it . 
He says if all men will do that the millennium will come to morrow . 
I 'spose you know what the millennium is ? I do ! said the Princess . 
But I don't know what your father and his friend Oliver P. Morton have to do with Laddie . 
Why , everything on earth ! Laddie is father's son , you see , and he is made like father . 
None of our other boys is . 
Not one of them loves land . 
Gee , I thought he'd killed him ! Laddie did too for a while , but he only said the man deserved it . 
And so he did ! cried the Princess angrily . 
How beastly ! That's one reason Laddie sticks so close to land . 
He says he doesn't meet nearly so many two legged beasts in the country . 
Almost every time he goes to town he either gets into a fight or he sees something that makes him fighting mad . 
Princess , you think this beautiful , don't you ? I just pointed anywhere . 
All the world was in it that morning . 
You couldn't look right or left and not see lovely places , hear music , and smell flowers . 
Yes ! It is altogether wonderful ! she said . 
I know I'm a fool . 
He WANTS to do every least thing you'd like him to . 
He will , almost any thing else in the world , he would this he would in a minute , but he just CAN'T . 
Don't ! Oh please don't do it ! The Princess was looking at the world . 
She was gazing at it so dazed like she seemed to be surprised at what she saw . 
She acted as if she'd never really seen it before . 
She looked and she looked . 
She even turned her horse a full circle to see all of it , and she went around slowly . 
I stepped from one foot to the other and sweat but I kept quiet and let her look . 
I don't know that I'm so crazy about a city myself , and I perfectly hate lawyers . 
Come to thing of it , a lawyer helped work ruin in our family , and I never have believed , I never will believe She stopped talking and began looking again . 
I gave her all the time she needed . 
I was just straining to be wise , for mother says it takes the very wisest person there is to know when to talk , and when to keep still . 
As I figured it , now was the time not to say another word until she made up her mind about what I had told her already . 
If Pryors didn't know what we thought of them by that time , it wasn't mother's fault or mine . 
As she studied things over she kept on looking . 
What she saw seemed to be doing her a world of good . 
Her face showed it every second plainer and plainer . 
Pretty soon it began to look like she was going to come through as Amos Hurd did when he was redeemed . 
The Princess stroked Maud's neck a long time and thought while she studied our farm , theirs beyond it , and at the last , the far field where Laddie was plowing . 
She thought , and thought , and afraid to cheep , I stood gripping the shingle and waited . 
Finally she said The last time Laddie was at our house , I said to him those things he repeated to you . 
He went away at once , hurt and disappointed . 
Now , if you like , along with your precious pie , you may carry him this message from me . 
You may tell him that I said I am sorry ! I could have cried Glory ! and danced and shouted there in the road , but I didn't . 
It was no time to lose my head . 
That was all so fine and splendid , as far as it went , but it didn't quite cover the case . 
I could come up , you know , I offered . 
A dull red flamed in her cheeks and her lips closed tight . 
What about that wonderful pie ? she asked me . 
I ran to the nearest fence corner , and laid the shingle on the gnarled roots of a Johnny Appleseed apple tree . 
Then I set one foot on the arch of the Princess' instep and held up my hands . 
One second I thought she would not lift me , the next I was on her level and her lips met mine in a touch like velvet woven from threads of flame . 
Then with a turn of her stout little wrist , she dropped me , and a streak went up our road . 
Nothing so amazing and so important ever had happened to me . 
It was an occasion that demanded something unusual . 
As I followed the cool , damp furrow , and Laddie's whistle , clear as the lark's above the wheat , thrilled me , I was almost insane with joy . 
Just joy ! Pure joy ! Oh what a good world it was ! most of the time ! Most of the time ! Of course , there WERE Paget men in it . 
But anyway , THIS couldn't be beaten . 
I had her kiss , that I didn't know what would do to him , and I also had a big piece of juicy rhubarb pie not yet entirely cold . 
If that didn't wipe out the trouble I had made showing the old crest thing , nothing ever could . 
I knew even then , that men were pretty hard to satisfy , but I was quite certain that Laddie would be satisfied that morning . 
As I hurried along I wondered whether it would be better to give him my gift first , or the Princess' . 
Mother send it ? asked Laddie . 
People were curious that morning , as if I had a habit of stealing pie . 
I only took pieces of cut ones from the cellar when mother didn't care . 
So I explained again that Candace gave it to me , and I was free to bring it . 
Oh I see ! said Laddie . 
Once he started a thing , he just simply wouldn't give up . 
He unbuttoned his neckband until I could see his throat where it was white like a woman's , took out his knife and ate that pie . 
Of course we knew better than to use a knife at the table , but there was no other way in the field . 
He ate that pie , slowly and deliberately , and between bites he talked . 
I watched him with a wide grin , wondering what in this world he WOULD say , in a minute . 
I don't think I ever had quite such a good time in all my life before , and I never expect to again . 
When the last morsel was finished , Laddie looked at me steadily . 
I couldn't hold in another second , I could hear my heart beat . 
Oh Laddie ! I shouted , jumping up , that pie is only the beginning of the good things I have brought you . 
I have a message , and a gift besides , Laddie ! A message and a gift ? Laddie repeated . 
From the Princess ! he exclaimed . 
A message and a gift for me , Little Sister ? You never would let Leon put you up to serve me a trick ? That hurt . 
He should have KNOWN I wouldn't , and besides , Leon feels just as badly about this as any of us , I said . 
Have you forgotten he offered to plow , and let you do the clean , easy work ? Forgive me ! I'm overanxious , said Laddie , his arms reaching for me . 
Before I had finished Laddie was breathing as Flos does when he races her the limit . 
He sat motionless for a long time , while over his face slowly crept a beauty that surpassed that of Apollo in his Greek book . 
And her gift ? It was only a breath . 
She helped me up , and she sent you this , I answered . 
Then I set my lips on his , and held them there a second , trying my level best to give him her very kiss , but of course I could only try . 
Oh , Laddie , I cried . 
Remembering it would be all I'd ever have . 
Peter wasn't a patching to him ! That night Laddie rode to Pryors' . 
I broke one of those rank green sprouts from the snowball bush and brushed away the flies , so she wouldn't fret , stamp , and throw dust on herself . 
Then Laddie came , fresh from a tubbing , starched linen , dressed in his new riding suit , and wearing top hat and gauntlets . 
He looked the very handsomest I ever had seen him and at the same time , he seemed trembling with tenderness , and bursting with power . 
Goodness sake ! I bet the Princess took one good look and came down like Davy Crockett's coon . 
Mother was on his arm and she walked clear to the gate with him . 
LADDIE , ARE YOU SURE ENOUGH TO GO ? I heard her ask him whisper like . 
SURE AS DEATH ! Laddie answered . 
She held it toward him , smiling bravely and beautifully , but the tears were running straight down her cheeks . 
Take it to her , she said . 
I think , my son , it is very like . 
Laddie took her in his arms and wiped away the tears he told her everything would come out all right about God , and the mystery , even . 
It hadn't been so easy , but I guess you'll admit that paid . 
Then he rode away with the damask rose waving over his heart . 
Mother and I stood beside the hitching rack and looked after him , with our arms tight around each other while we tried to see which one could bawl the hardest . 
CHAPTER XVI The Homing Pigeon A millstone and the human heart , Are ever driven round , And if they've nothing else to grind , They must themselves be ground . 
It seemed to me that my mother was the person who really could have been excused for having heart trouble . 
The more I watched her , the more I wondered that she didn't . 
I hoped soon it would all be gone . 
Then they could have been happy for sure , if some of us hadn't popped up and kept them in hot water all the time . 
I can't tell you about Laddie when he came back from Pryors' . 
He tore down the house , then tore it up , and then threw around the pieces , and none of us cared . 
Every one was just laughing , shouting , and every bit as pleased as he was , while I was the Queen Bee . 
Laddie said so , himself , and if he didn't know , no one did . 
Pryors had been lovely to him . 
When mother asked him how he made it , he answered I rode over , picked up the Princess and helped myself . 
After I finished , I remembered the little unnecessary formality of asking her to marry me and she said right out loud that she WOULD . 
Now , I'm only needing yours , to make me a king among men . 
They gave it quite as willingly , I am sure , although you could see mother scringe when Laddie said Father and Mother Pryor . 
She adored Laddie , like the Bible says you must adore the Almighty . 
From a tiny baby Laddie had taken care of her . 
He used to go back , take her hand , and try to help her over rough places while he still wore dresses . 
She knew he had to go . 
She wanted him to be happy . 
She was as sure of the man he was going to be as she was sure of the mercy of God . 
That is the strongest way I know to tell it . 
She was unshakably sure of the mercy of God , but I wasn't . 
Laddie was happy , and all of us were , in a way and in another we were almost stiff with misery . 
I always would be , for that matter but there was going to be a mighty big difference . 
I had the poor comfort that I'd done the thing myself . 
Maybe she'd go yet , as mysteriously as she had come , and take him along . 
Sometimes I almost wished I hadn't tried to help him but of course I didn't really . 
Why , how unspeakably selfish I have been ! No little lost sheep ever ran this farm so desolate as you will be without your brother . 
If you could call anything happiness , that was mixed with feeling like that , why , then , we were happy about Laddie . 
But from things I heard father and mother say , I knew they could have borne his going away , and felt a trifle better than they did . 
He said he had such a high opinion of Mr. Pryor's integrity that he didn't believe he'd encourage Laddie to enter his family if it would involve the boy in serious trouble . 
Anyway , the thing was done , and by fall , no doubt , Laddie would leave us . 
Mother sat and stared at father , and father went to hitch the horses to drive to Groveville . 
There's only one other day of my life that stands out as clearly as that . 
The house was clean as we could make it . 
I finished feeding early , and had most of the time to myself . 
I went down to the Big Hill , and followed the top of it to our woods . 
Then I turned around , and started toward the road , just idling . 
If I saw a lovely spot I sat down and watched all around me to see if a Fairy really would go slipping past , or lie asleep under a leaf . 
I peeked and peered softly , going from spot to spot , watching everything . 
Sometimes I hung over the water , and studied tiny little fish with red , yellow , and blue on them , bright as flowers . 
The dragonflies would alight right on me , and some wore bright blue markings and some blood red . 
There was a blue beetle , a beautiful green fly , and how the blue wasps did flip , flirt and glint in the light . 
So did the blackbirds and the redwings . 
That embankment was left especially to shade the water , and to feed the birds . 
Every foot of it was covered with alders , wild cherry , hazelbush , mulberries , everything having a berry or nut . 
There were several scrub apple trees , many red haws , the wild strawberries spread in big beds in places , and some of them were colouring . 
In a way , it was the most peculiar day of my life . 
I had plenty to think of , but I never thought at all . 
I sat watching the world go past through a sort of golden haze the sun made . 
When a pair of kingbirds and three crows chased one of my hawks pell mell across the sky , I looked on and didn't give a cent what happened . 
Any other time I would have hunted a stick and made the snake let loose . 
To day I just sat there and let things happen as they did . 
Bobby flew under the Bartlett pear tree and crowed for me , but I never called him . 
I sat there and lived on , and mostly watched the bees tumble over the bluebells . 
They were almost ready to be cut to put in the buttered tumblers for perfume , like mother made for us . 
Then I went into the house and looked at Grace Greenwood , but I didn't take her along . 
I dragged my bare feet through the warm grass , and finally sat under the beet red peach tree . 
Bobby came again , but I didn't pay any attention to him . 
Then I heard the carriage cross the bridge . 
I knew when it was father , every single time his team touched the first plank . 
So I ran like an Indian , and shinned up a cedar tree , scratching myself until I bled . 
Away up I stood on a limb , held to the tree and waited . 
Father drove to the gate , and mother came out , with May , Candace , and Leon following . 
When Shelley touched the ground and straightened , any other tree except a spruce having limbs to hold me up , I would have fallen from it . 
She looked exactly as if she had turned to tombstone with eyes and hair alive . 
Well , I should say it did ! I quit living , and began thinking in a hooray , and so did every one else at our house . 
Once I had been sick and queened it over them for a while , now all of us strained ourselves trying to wait on Shelley but she wouldn't have it . 
She only said she was tired to death , to let her rest , and she turned her face to the wall and lay there . 
Once she said she never wanted to see a city again so long as she lived . 
When mother told her about Laddie and the Princess to try to interest her , she never said a word I doubted if she even listened . 
Father and mother looked at each other , when they thought no one would see , and their eyes sent big , anxious questions flashing back and forth . 
I made up my mind I'd keep awake that night and hear what they said , if I had to take pins to bed with me and stick myself . 
Once mother said to Shelley that she was going to send for Dr . 
Fenner , and she answered All right , if you need him . 
Don't you dare for me ! I'll not see him . 
All I want is a little peace and rest . 
The idea ! Not one of us ever had spoken to mother like that before in all our born days . 
I held my breath to see what she would do , but she didn't seem to have heard it , or to notice how rude it had been . 
Well , THAT told about as plain as anything what we had on our hands . 
I wandered around and NOW there was no trouble about thinking things . 
They came in such a jumble I could get no sense from them but one big black thought came over , and over , and over , and wouldn't be put away . 
It just stood , stayed , forced you , and made you look it in the face . 
If Shelley weren't stopped quickly she was going up on the hill with the little fever and whooping cough sisters . 
There was no trouble about keeping awake that night I couldn't sleep . 
I stood at the window and looked down the Big Hill through the soft white moonlight , and thought about it , and then I thought of mother . 
I guess NOW you see what kind of things mothers have to face . 
She's sick ? asked father , at last . 
Heartsick ! said mother bitterly . 
We'd better have Doc come ? She says she isn't sick , and she won't see him . 
She will if I put my foot down . 
Best not , Paul ! She'll feel better soon . 
She's so young ! She must get over it . 
They were silent for a long time and then father asked in a harsh whisper Ruth , can she possibly have brought us to shame ? God forbid ! cried mother . 
Then those two people knelt on each side of that bed , and I could hear half the words they muttered , until I was wild enough to scream . 
I wished with all my heart that I hadn't listened . 
I had always known it was no nice way . 
I must have gone to sleep after a while , but when I woke up I was still thinking about it , and to save me , I couldn't quit . 
All day , wherever I went , that question of father's kept going over in my head . 
I thought about it until I was almost crazy , and I just couldn't see where anything about shame came in . 
She THOUGHT he loved her , and he didn't . 
Besides , Laddie had done exactly the same thing . 
The more I thought , the worse I got worked up , and I couldn't see how Shelley was to blame for anything at all . 
Love just came to her , like it came to Laddie . 
You could see for yourself she wouldn't do that . 
I finished my work , and then I tried to do things for her , and she wouldn't let me . 
Do let me be ! Mother was listening . 
I could see her standing outside the door . 
She motioned to me to come away , so I went to her and she was white as Shelley . 
Mostly I sat to watch something that promised to become interesting , and before I knew it , I was back on the shame question . 
That's the most dreadful word in the dictionary . 
There's something about it that makes your face burn , only to have it in your mind . 
Laddie said he never had met any man who knew the origin of more words than father . 
He could even tell every clip what nationality a man was from his name . 
Thinking about that and planning out what it was that I wanted to know , gave me another idea . 
From the way Laddie and father hated them , they were a poor place for men , and they must have been much worse for girls . 
She wouldn't any more than slap me and sick as she was , I made up my mind not to get angry at her , or ever to tell , if she did . 
I'd rather have her hit me when she was so sick than to have Sally beat me until she couldn't strike another lick , just because she was angry . 
But I forgave her that , and I was never going to think of it again only I did . 
Mother kept sending Leon to the post office , and she met him at the gate half the time herself and fairly snatched the letters from his hands . 
Hum ! She couldn't pull the wool over my eyes . 
I knew she hoped somehow , some way , there would be a big fat one with Paget , Legal Adviser , or whatever a Chicago lawyer puts on his envelopes . 
Jerry's just say Attorney at Law . 
No letter ever came that had Paget in the corner , or anything happened that did Shelley any good . 
Far otherwise ! Just before supper Leon came from Groveville one evening , and all of us could see at a glance that he had been crying like a baby . 
He had wiped up , and was trying to hold in , but he was killed , next . 
I nearly said , Well , for heaven's sake , another ! when I saw him . 
Of course all of us knew exactly what that letter was from the way he acted . 
Treat a horse ugly , and we'd have gone on the thrashing floor ourselves . 
Father laid the letter face down , his hand on it , and shook his head . 
This is too bad ! he said . 
The description of the man who robbed us is perfect . 
The money was from the sale of some prize cattle . 
It will have to be returned . 
Just let me see the letter a minute , said Laddie . 
He read it over thoughtfully . 
He was long enough about it to have gone over it three times then he looked at Leon , and his forehead creased in a deep frown . 
The tears slid down mother's cheeks , but she didn't know it , or else she'd have wiped them away . 
She was never mussy about the least little thing . 
Father ! That was as far as she could go . 
The man must have his money , said father , but we'll look into this He pushed back the plates and tablecloth , and cleared his end of the table . 
Mother never budged to stack the plates , or straighten the cloth so it wouldn't be wrinkled . 
I never had seen him look either old or tired before but he did then . 
Mother noticed it too , for her lips tightened , she lifted her head , wiped her eyes , and pretended that she felt better . 
Laddie said something about doing the feeding , and slipped out . 
Just then Shelley came into the room , stopped , and looked questioningly at us . 
Her eyes opened wide , and she stared hard at Leon . 
Why what ails him ? she asked mother . 
Shelley crossed the room swiftly , dropped beside him and whispered something in his ear . 
Quick as a shot his arm reached out and went around her . 
She hid her head deep in the pillow beside him , and they went to pieces together . 
Clear to pieces ! Pretty soon father had to take off his glasses and wipe them so he could see the figures . 
I have tried to plan an extra good one this evening . 
NOW , I guess you know about all I can tell you of mother ! I can't see that there's a thing left . 
That was the kind of soldier she was . 
It was so loud one wanted to pitch it from the window . 
May and I sat still as mice when the cat is near . 
Candace couldn't keep away from the kitchen door to save her , and where mother went I hadn't an idea , but she wasn't getting an extra good supper . 
Shelley and Leon were quieter now . 
May nudged me , and I saw that his arm around her was gripping her tight , while her hand on his head was patting him and fingering his hair . 
Ca lumph ! Ca lumph ! came the funniest sound right on the stone walk leading to the east door , then a shrill whicker that made father drop his pencil . 
She was sticking her nose toward Leon , whinnying softly , as she lifted one foot , and if Laddie hadn't backed her , she would have walked right into the dining room . 
Come on , Weiscope , she's yours ! said Laddie . 
Take her to the barn , and put her in one of the cow stalls , until we fix a place for her . 
Leon crossed the room , but he never touched the horse . 
He threw his arms around Laddie's neck . 
Son ! Son ! Haven't you let your feelings run away with you ? What does this mean ? asked father sternly . 
There's nothing remarkable in a big six footer like me buying a horse , said Laddie . 
I expect to purchase a number soon , and without a cent to pay , in the bargain . 
I contracted to give five hundred dollars for this mare . 
She is worth more but that should be satisfactory all around . 
I get one hundred each , and my expenses for the job . 
I'll have as much fun doing it as I ever had at anything . 
It suits me far better than plowing , even . 
Mother entered the room at a sweep , and pushed Leon aside . 
Oh you man of my heart ! she cried . 
You man after my own heart ! Laddie bent and kissed her , holding her tight as he looked over her head at father . 
It's all right , of course ? he said . 
I never have known of anything quite so altogether right , said father . 
If the others had looked to see why he was gone so long , they would have seen him on his knees beside his bed thanking God , as usual . 
Leon couldn't have come closer than when he said , The same yesterday , to day , and forever , about father . 
Leon had his arms around the neck of his horse now , and he was kissing her , patting her , and explaining to Shelley just why no other horse was like her . 
Then he said Just hop on her back from that top step and ride her to the barn , if you want to see the motion she has . 
Shelley said Has a woman ever been on her back ? Won't she shy at my skirts ? No , explained Leon . 
I've been training her with a horse blanket pinned around me , so Susie could ride her ! She'll be all right . 
So Shelley mounted , and the horse turned her head , and tried to rub against her , as she walked away , tame as a sheep . 
I wondered if she could be too gentle . 
If she went like the wind , as Leon said , it didn't show then . 
Why , you have the whole thing right there in a nutshell , Little Sister , he said . 
You see it's like this the Book tells us most distinctly that God is love . 
Now it was love that sent Laddie to bind himself for a long , tedious job , to give Leon his horse , wasn't it ? Of course ! I said . 
He wouldn't have been likely to do it if he hated him . 
It was love , of course ! Then it was God , said father , because God is love . 
They are one and the same thing . 
Then he kissed me , and THAT was settled . 
I decided it all went back to God though , for most of the time probably we wouldn't know who the right one was to try to awaken love in . 
Mother said it had done more to make a man of him than anything that ever happened . 
It helped Shelley , too . 
Something seemed to break in her , when she cried so with Leon , because he was in trouble . 
If you don't think by this time that my mother was the beatenest woman alive , I'll prove it to you . 
When the supper bell rang there was strawberry preserves instead of the apple butter , biscuit , fried chicken , and mashed potatoes . 
She must have slapped those chickens into the skillet before they knew their heads were off . 
She fumbled over her plate , but scarcely touched even the livers , and those delicious little kidneys in the tailpiece like Leon and I had at Sally's wedding . 
Then she bowed her head , so all of us did too . 
O Lord , we praise Thee for all Thy tender mercies , and all Thy loving kindness . 
Maybe I haven't told everything about her , after all . 
Shelley he held long and close , and patted her a little when he let her go . 
It made me wonder if the rest of us didn't get ours , so he'd have a chance at her without her noticing it . 
One thing was perfectly clear . 
If shame came to us , they were going to love her , and stick tight to her right straight through it . 
But I wanted to get her away off alone , so no one would see if she slapped me . 
I didn't know how long I'd have to wait . 
I tried coaxing her to the orchard to see a bluebird's nest , but she asked if bluebirds were building any different that year , and I had to admit they were not . 
Just as I was beginning to think I'd have to take that to the Lord in prayer , I got my chance by accident . 
May and Candace were forever going snake hunting . 
They did have heaps of fun and wild excitement . 
Candace cried so much because Frederick Swartz had been laid in the tomb , that mother was pleased to have her cheer up , even enough to go snake hunting . 
That afternoon Mehitabel Heasty had come to visit May , so she went along , and I followed . 
They poked around the driftwood at the floodgate behind the barn , and were giving up the place . 
Candace had crossed the creek and was coming back , and May had started , when she saw a tiny little one and chased it . 
Candace screamed at May to look behind her , but May was busy with the snake and didn't look quick enough , so the old mammy struck right in her back . 
She just caught in the hem of May's skirt , and her teeth stuck in the goods you know how a snake's teeth turn back so she couldn't let go . 
But she jumped and said that , while May ran and screamed , and Candace gripped her big hickory stick and told May to stand still . 
Then she bruised that serpent with her whole foot , for she stood on it , and swatted it until she broke its neck . 
Then she turned ready for the other one , but when it saw what happened to its mate , it decided to go back . 
She jumped as if I had been a snake when she saw me , then she said , Oh , is it you ? like she was half glad of it . 
I went to her , sat close beside her and tried snuggling up a little . 
She put her arm around me , drew me tight , rubbed her cheek against my head and we sat there . 
I was wondering how in the world I could ask her , and not get slapped . 
I was growing most too big for that slapping business , anyway . 
She used to like to have me play with it so well , she'd give me pennies if I did . 
I got up , and began pulling out her pins carefully . 
I knew I was getting a start because right away she put up her hand to help me . 
When I reached over her shoulder to drop them in her lap , being so close I kissed her cheek . 
Then I shook down her hair , spread it out , lifted it , parted it , and held up strands to let the air on her scalp . 
She shivered and said Mercy child , how good that does feel ! My head has ached lately until it's a wonder there's a hair left on it . 
So I was pleasing her . 
I never did handle hair so carefully . 
Shelley , I said , they told you about Laddie and the Princess , didn't they ? I knew they had , but I had to make a beginning some way . 
I'm glad of it ! I think she's pretty as a picture , and nice as she looks . 
Laddie may have to hump himself to support her , but if he can't get her as fine clothes as she has , her folks can help him . 
They seem to have plenty , and she's their only child . 
I heard Mr. Pryor ask Laddie if he'd be so unkind as to object to them having the pleasure of giving her things . 
Well , the greenhorn didn't say he would ! No. He didn't want to put his nose to the grindstone quite that close . 
He said it was between them . 
I should think so ! Shelley , there's a question I've been wanting to ask some one for quite a while . 
Well , now , 'spose she never had loved him , would he have had anything to be ashamed of ? I can't see that he would . 
Some one must start a courtship , or there would be no marrying , and it's conceded to be the place of the man . 
No. He might be disappointed , or dreadfully hurt , but there would be no shame about it . 
Now I was getting somewhere ! Of course you would ! I said . 
Or at least , I'd have waited until I THOUGHT sure as death , I knew . 
It seems that sometimes you can be fooled about those things . 
What are you driving at , Blatherskite ? What have you got into your head ? Oh just studying about things , I said , which was exactly the truth . 
Sally getting married last fall , and Laddie going to this , just started me to wondering . 
Fooled her , too ! Oh well , there's no harm done , she said . 
The sooner you get these matters straightened out , the better able you will be to take care of yourself . 
If you ever go to a city , you'll find out that a girl needs considerable care taken of her . 
Of course you haven't ! I cried . 
Of course you wouldn't have ! I just kissed her over and over for joy I was so glad my heart hurt for father and mother . 
Shame had not come to them ! Now , I guess I'll run to the house and get a comb , I told her . 
Go on , said Shelley . 
I know you are tired . 
I'm not in the least , I said . 
Don't you remember I always use a comb when I fuss with your hair ? It is better , said Shelley . 
As I got up to start I took a last look at her , and there was something in her face that I couldn't bear . 
I knelt beside her , and put both arms around her neck . 
Shelley , it's a secret , I said in a breathless half whisper . 
It's a great , big secret , but I'm going to tell you . 
Twice now I've had a powerful prayer all ready to try . 
It's the kind where you go to the barn , all alone , stand on that top beam below the highest window and look toward the east . 
I KNOW it will come true . 
I knew he was at the barn and he was going to be too happy for words in a minute . 
But as I went up the lane , I wasn't sure whether I'd rather pray about that Paget man or bruise him with my heel like a serpent . 
The only way I could fix it was to remember if Shelley loved him so , he must be mighty nice . 
Praise the Lord ! said father like I knew he would , but you should have seen his face . 
Tell me about it ! I told him and he said Well , I don't know but this is the gladdest hour of my life . 
Go straight and repeat to your mother exactly what you've said to me . 
Take her away all alone , and then forget about it , you little blessing . 
Father , have you got too many children ? No ! he said . 
I wish I had a dozen more , if they'd be like you . 
When I went up the lane I was so puffed up with importance I felt too dignified to run . 
I strutted like our biggest turkey gobbler . 
The only reason you couldn't hear my wings scrape , was because through mistake they grew on the turkey . 
If I'd had them , I would have dragged them sure , and cried Ge hobble hobble ! at every step . 
I took mother away alone and told her , and she asked many more questions than father , but she was even gladder than he . 
She almost hugged the breath out of me . 
Sometimes I get things RIGHT , anyway ! Then I took the comb and ran back to Shelley . 
I thought you'd forgotten me , she said . 
She had wiped up and was looking better . 
If ever I combed carefully I did then . 
Just when I had all the tangles out , there came mother . 
She had not walked that far in a long time . 
I thought maybe she could comfort Shelley , so I laid the comb in her lap and went to see how the snake hunters were coming on . 
It must be all right , when the Bible says so , but the African Jungle will do for me , and a popgun is not going to scatter families . 
I never felt so strongly about breaking home ties in my life as I did then . 
It was not where I wanted to be , so I thought I'd go back to the barn , and hang around father , hoping maybe he'd brag on me some more . 
Going up the lane I saw a wagon passing with the biggest box I ever had seen , and I ran to the gate to watch where it went . 
It stopped at our house and Frank came toward me as I hurried up the road . 
Where are the folks ? he asked , without paying the least attention to my asking him over and over what was in the box . 
May and Candace are killing every snake in the driftwood behind the barn , Shelley and mother are down in the orchard , and father and the boys are hauling corn . 
Go tell the boys to come quickly and keep quiet , he said . 
But don't let any one else know I'm here . 
That was so exciting I almost fell over my feet running , and all three of them came quite as fast . 
I stood back and watched , and I just danced a steady hop from one foot to the other while those men got the big box off the wagon and opened it . 
On the side I spelled Piano , so of course it was for Shelley . 
It was so heavy it took all six of them , father and the three boys , the driver and another very stylish looking man to carry it . 
Father and the boys gathered up every scrap , swept the walk , and put all the things they had used back where they got them , like we always did . 
Then Frank took a card from his pocket and tied it to the music rack , and it read For Shelley , from her brothers in fact , and in law . 
To a corner of the cover he pinned another card that read From Peter . 
What is that ? asked father . 
That's from Peter , said Frank . 
Peter is great on finishing touches . 
He had to outdo the rest of us that much or bust . 
Fact is , none of us thought of a cover except him . 
How about this ? asked father , staring at it as if it were an animal that would bite . 
Put yours in the bank , and try the feel of a surplus once more . 
Haven't had much lately , have you , father ? Well , not to speak of , said father . 
Now let's shut everything up , ring the bell to call them , and get Shelley in here and surprise her . 
She's not very well , said father . 
Mother thinks she worked too hard . 
She's all right now , father , I said . 
She is getting pink again and rounder , and this will fix her grand . 
Wouldn't it though ! There wasn't one anywhere , short of the city . 
Even the Princess had none . 
Father hunted up a song book , opened it and set it on the rack . 
Then all of us went out . 
We'll write to the boys , mother and I , and Shelley also , said father . 
I can't express myself just now . 
This is a fine thing for all of you to do . 
Frank seemed to think so too , and looked rather puffed up , until Leon began telling about his horse . 
Your mother will like that instrument as well as Shelley , son , said father . 
He walked between mother and Shelley , with an arm around each one . 
If he thought Shelley looked badly , he didn't mention it . 
What he did say was that he was starved , and to fly around and get supper . 
They began to cook , and the boys went to feed and see Leon's horse , and then we had supper . 
I just sat and stared at Frank and grinned . 
Do finish your supper , said mother . 
I never saw anything take your appetite like seeing your brother . 
You'll be wanting a piece before bedtime . 
I didn't say a word , because I was afraid to , but I kept looking at Leon and he smiled back , and we had great fun . 
Mother couldn't have eaten a bite if she'd known about that great shining thing , all full of wonderful sound , standing in our parlour . 
When the last slow person had finished , father said Shelley , won't you step into the front room and bring me that book I borrowed from Frank on Taxation . 
I want to talk over a few points . 
All of us heard her little breathless cry , and mother said , There ! as if she'd been listening for something , and she beat all of us to the door . 
Then she cried out too , and such a time as we did have . 
CHAPTER XVII In Faith Believing Nor could the bright green world around A joy to her impart , For still she missed the eyes that made The summer of her heart . 
So I got Laddie to promise surely that he'd wake me when he got up the next morning . 
I laid my clothes out all ready he merely touched my foot , and I came to , slipped out with him , and he helped me dress . 
We went to the barn when the morning was all gray . 
What the dickens have you got in your head now , Chicken ? he asked . 
Is it business with the Fairies ? No , this is with the Most High , I said solemnly , like father . 
Go away and leave me alone . 
Well of all the queer chickens ! he said , but he kissed me and went . 
There I stood looking at the top of the world . 
A gray mist was rising like steam from the earth , there was a curious colour in the east , stripes of orange and flames of red , where the sun was coming . 
I folded my hands on the sill , faced the sky , and stood staring . 
Just stood , and stood , never moving a muscle . 
Little cold chills began going up my back , and soon I was talking to the Lord exactly as if He stood before me on the reddest ray that topped our apple trees . 
I don't know all I said . 
I began by reminding Him that He knew everything , and so He'd understand if what I asked was for the best . 
Not one thing ! It was so beautiful , and I was so in earnest my heart hurt but that was like any other sunrise on a fine July morning . 
If I had held the letter in my hand saying he would arrive on the noon train , I couldn't have grown surer . 
Why , I even looked down the first time I moved , to see if I had it but I was certain anyway . 
Shelley was at the orchard gate , waiting so I knew they had missed me , and Laddie had told them where I was and not to call . 
She had the strangest look on her face , as she asked Where have you been ? I looked straight and hard at her and said , It's all right , Shelley . 
I left Shelley standing there with her eyes wide , also her mouth . 
She looked about as intelligent as Mehitabel Heasty , and it wouldn't have surprised me if she had begun to jump up and down and say there were snakes in HER shoes . 
Maybe it took her longer , because mother wasn't there , to remind her about her mouth , and I didn't propose to mention it . 
At breakfast , mother said father was going to drive Frank home in the carriage , and if I would like , I might go along . 
I would have to sit on the back seat alone , going but coming home I could ride beside and visit with father . 
I loved that , for you could see more from the front seat , and father would stop to explain every single thing . 
He always gave me the money and let me pay the toll . 
So he drove across the street , stopped at the curb , and left me to hold the team . 
We never drove into the barn with one speck of mud or dust on it . 
That was how particular mother was . 
I watched the team carefully I had to if I didn't want my neck broken but I also kept an eye on that veranda . 
You could see at a glance that those were stylish women . 
I got it out so far I thought every minute he'd notice , and tell me not to do that , but I could only see Stanton . 
All of us were Stanton , so it might be for me , for that matter . 
Jerry might be sending me pictures , or a book , he did sometimes , but there was an exciting thing about it . 
Besides being fatter than it looked right at the end , it was plastered with stamps lots of them , enough to have brought it clear around the world . 
I pushed that end back , pulled out the other , and took one good look . 
I almost fell from the carriage . 
I grabbed father's arm and cried Stop ! Stop this team quick . 
Stop them and see if I can read . 
Are you crazy , child ? asked father , but he checked the horses . 
No , but you are going to be in a minute , I said . 
Look at that ! I yanked the letter from the bundle , and held it over . 
I THOUGHT I could read , but I was too scared to be sure . 
I thought it said in big , strong , upstanding letters , Miss Shelley Stanton , Groveville , Indiana . 
And in the upper corner , Blackburn , Yeats and PAGET , Counsellors of Law , to State St . 
I put my finger on the Paget , and looked into father's face . 
I was no fool after all . 
He was not a bit surer that HE could read than I was , from the dazed way he stared . 
You see ! I said . 
It says Paget ! he said , like he would come nearer believing it if he heard himself pronounce the word . 
I THOUGHT it said Paget , I gasped , but I wanted to know if you thought so too . 
Yes , it's Paget plain enough , said father , but he acted like there was every possibility that it might change to Jones any minute . 
It says Paget , plain as print . 
Would it , father ? It doesn't seem probable , said father . 
Father don't you think it means there's been some big mistake , and it takes so much to tell how it can be fixed ? It seems reasonable . 
I gripped him tighter , and maybe shook him a little . 
Father , doesn't it just look HURRY , all over ? Can't you speed up a little ? They have all day to cool off . 
Oh father , won't you speed a little ? That I will ! said father . 
Get a tight hold , and pray God it is good word we carry . 
But I prayed the one big prayer to get this , I said . 
It wouldn't be sent if it wasn't good . 
The thing to do now is to thank the Lord for all his loving kindnesses , like mother said . 
Then I gripped the top supports with one hand , the mail with the other , and hung on for dear life . 
I took one good look at father . 
His feet were on the brace , his face was clear , even white , his eyes steely , and he never moved a muscle . 
We whizzed past the church and cemetery , and scarcely touched the Big Hill . 
People ran to their doors , even to the yards , and I was sure they thought we were having a runaway , but we were not . 
He tied them , and followed me into the house instead of going to the barn . 
I ran ahead calling Shelley ! Where is Shelley ? What in this world has happened , child ? asked mother , catching my arm . 
Her letter has come ! Her Paget letter ! The one you looked for until you gave up . 
It's come at last ! Oh , where is she ? Be calmer , child , you'll frighten her , said mother . 
May snatched the letter from my fingers and began to read all that was on it aloud . 
Make her give that back ! I sobbed to father . 
It's mine ! I found it . 
Father , make her let me take it ! Give it to her ! said father . 
I rather feel that it is her right to deliver it . 
I think probably she's gone back where she was the other day . 
Gee , but we ran ! And there she was ! As we came up , she heard us and turned . 
She just had to take her time to sense it . 
Shall I open it for you ? I asked , merely to make her see that it was time she was doing it herself . 
Blest if she didn't reach it toward me ! sort of woodenlike . 
I stuck my finger under the flap , gave it a rip across and emptied what was inside into her lap . 
She sat staring at the heap , touching one , another , and repeating Robert Paget ? as she picked each up in turn . 
What do you suppose it means ? she asked May . 
You must read the loose sheet , she advised . 
No doubt that will explain . 
But Shelley never touched it . 
She handled those letters and stared at them . 
Father and mother came through the orchard and stood together behind us , so father knelt down at last , reached across Shelley's shoulder , picked one up and looked at it . 
Have you good word , dear ? asked mother of Shelley . 
Why , I don't understand at all , said Shelley . 
Just look at all these queer letters , addressed to Mr. Paget . 
Why should they be sent to me ? I mustn't open them . 
There must be some mistake . 
These are DEAD LETTERS , said father . 
You've heard of dead letters , haven't you ? I suppose so , said Shelley . 
I don't remember just now but there couldn't be a better name . 
They've come mighty near killing me . 
If you'd only read that note ! urged May , putting it right into her fingers . 
I'm afraid of it , she said exactly like I'd have spoken if there had been a big rattlesnake coming right at me , when I'd nothing at hand to bruise it . 
Laddie and Leon came from the barn . 
They had heard me calling , seen May and me run , and then father and mother coming down , so they walked over . 
What's up ? asked Leon . 
I hardly know , said Shelley . 
I brought her a big letter with all those little ones and a note in it , and they are from the Paget man , I explained to him . 
But she won't even read the note , and see what he writes . 
Poor child ! No wonder ! said Laddie , sitting beside her and putting his arm around her . 
Suppose I read it for you . 
May I ? Yes , said Shelley . 
She leaned against him , while he unfolded the white sheet . 
This DOES look bad for you . 
It begins My own darling Girl . 
Let me see ! cried Shelley , suddenly straightening , and reaching her hand . 
Laddie held the page toward her , but she only looked , she didn't offer to touch it . 
He couldn't talk about much else . 
It was his first case . 
It was for a friend of his who had been robbed of everything in the world honour , relatives , home , and money . 
Good gracious ! cried mother , picking up one and clutching it tight as if she meant to see that it didn't get away again . 
Go on ! cried Shelley . 
I am enclosing some of them as they came back to me , in proof of my statement . 
I drove at once to your boarding place and found you had not been there for weeks , and your landlady was distinctly crabbed . 
Then I went to the college , only to find that you had fallen ill and gone to your home . 
That threw me into torments , and all that keeps me from taking the first train is the thought that perhaps you refused to accept these letters , for some reason . 
Shelley , you did not , did you ? There is some mistake somewhere , is there not One would be led to think so , said father sternly . 
Seems as if he might have managed some way Don't you blame him ! cried Shelley . 
I bet anything she wouldn't give the postman my new address , to pay me back . 
I left it , of course . 
Likely there isn't much in Chicago to give a girl who never had been away from her family before , confidence' in herself or any one else . 
Surely , you encouraged me in thinking you cared for me a little , Shelley . 
Only a little will do to begin with You see , I DID have something to go on ! cried Shelley , wiping her eyes and straightening up . 
No doubt you misunderstood and resented my going without coming to explain , and bid you good bye in person , but Shelley , I SIMPLY DARED NOT . 
An hour's delay might mean the loss of everything in the world to me , even you . 
If I could catch the train in an hour , I could take a boat at New York , and go straight through with no loss of time . 
So I wrote you a note that probably said more than I would have ventured in person , and paid a boy to deliver it . 
Kept the money and tore up the note , I bet ! said May . 
I wrote on the train , but found after sailing that I had rushed so I had failed to post it in New York . 
I kept on writing every day on the boat , and mailed you six at Liverpool . 
All the time I have written frequently there are many more here that this envelope will not hold , that I shall save until I hear from you . 
Well , well ! said father . 
Shelley , I beat death , reached my man , got the testimony I had to have , and won my case . 
Listen to that ! More weddings ! cried Leon . 
He dropped on his knees before Shelley . 
Will you marry me , my pretty maid ? he begged . 
Young man , if you cut any capers right now , I'll cuff your ears ! cried father . 
Quick ! I'm half insane to see you . 
I have many things to tell you , first of all how dear you are to me . 
Saddle a horse , Leon ! father cried as he unstrapped his wallet . 
Laddie , take down her message . 
Can you put it into ten words ? asked Laddie . 
Mother , what would you say ? questioned Shelley . 
Leon held up his fingers and curled down one with each word . 
Come when you get ready . 
But then I won't know when he's coming , objected Shelley . 
You don't need to , said Leon . 
You can take it for granted from that epistolary effusion that he won't let the grass grow under his feet while coming here . 
That's a bully message ! It sounds as if you weren't crazy over him , and it's a big compliment to mother . 
Looks as if she didn't have to know when people are coming like she's ready all the time . 
Write it out and let me see , said Shelley . 
So Laddie wrote it , and she looked at it a long time , it seemed to me , at last she said I don't like that get . 
Wouldn't are' be better ? Come when you are ready , repeated Laddie . 
Why not put it , Come when you choose ? suggested mother . 
That will leave it with him to start whenever he likes . 
Yes ! yes ! cried Shelley . 
That's much better ! Say , Come when you choose ! Right ! said Laddie as he wrote it . 
Now I'll take this ! Oh no you won't ! cried Leon . 
Father told me to saddle my horse . 
She's got enough speed in her to beat yours a mile . 
I take that ! Didn't you say for me to saddle , father ? Such important business , I think I better , said Laddie , and Leon began to cry . 
I think you should both go , said Shelley . 
It is so important , and if one goes to make a mistake , maybe the other will notice it . 
Yes , that's the best way , said mother . 
Yes , both go , said father . 
It was like one streak when they went up the Big Hill . 
Poor judgment that , he said . 
Never run a horse up hill ! But they're in such a hurry , Shelley reminded him . 
So they are , said father . 
In this case I might have broken the rule myself . 
Now come all of you , and let the child get at her mail . 
But I want you to stay , said Shelley . 
I'm so addle pated this morning . 
I need my family to help me . 
Of course you do , child , said mother . 
Families were made to cling together , and stand by each other in every circumstance of life joy or sorrow . 
Of course you need your family . 
May began sorting the letters by dates so Shelley could start on the one that had been written first . 
Father ran his knife across the top of each , and cut all the envelopes , and Shelley took out the first and read it that was the train one . 
We talked it over , and all of us thought the boy had kept the money and torn up the note . 
Next she read one written on the boat . 
The next one told it all over again , and more . 
He told her if the ship he was on passed another , they were going to stop and send back the mail . 
He begged her to write often , and to say she forgave him for starting away without seeing her , as he had been forced to . 
The next one was the same thing over , only a little more yet . 
For the real straight sense there was in that letter , I could have done as well myself . 
Seems to me that's a mighty important case for a young lawyer to be trusted with , in a first effort . 
But he hasn't found the people who must have back their money , said May . 
He will have to go to England again . 
And he wants to take you , Shelley . 
My ! You'll get to sail on a big steamer , cross the Atlantic Ocean , and see London . 
YOU KNOW I told you . 
Of course I do ! But what made you think so ? That was the answer . 
Just that he was coming . 
What are you two talking about ? asked mother . 
Shelley looked at me , and waited for me to tell mother as much as I wanted to , of what had happened . 
You did ? Well of all the world ! I can't see why . 
Oh something told me ! I just FELT that way . 
More of that Fairy nonsense ? asked father sharply . 
No. I didn't get that from the Fairies . 
Well , never mind ! said Shelley , rising , because she saw that I had told all I wanted to . 
Little Sister DID tell me this morning that he was coming , that everything would be made right , and it's the queerest thing , but instantly I believed her . 
Didn't I sing all morning , mother ? The first note since Robert didn't come when I expected him in Chicago , weeks ago . 
That's a wonderfully strange thing . 
I can't see what made you think so . 
Anyway , I did ! I said . 
Now let's go have dinner . 
I caught May's hand , and ran to get away from them . 
Father and mother walked one on each side of Shelley , while with both hands she held her letters before her . 
When we reached the house we just talked about them all the time . 
Pretty soon the boys were back , and then they told about sending the telegram . 
Leon vowed he gave the operator a dime extra to start that message with a shove , so it would go faster . 
It will go all right , said Laddie , and how it will go won't be a circumstance to the way he'll come . 
If there's anything we ought to do , before he gets here , we should hustle . 
Chicago isn't a thousand miles away . 
That message can reach him by two o'clock , it's probable he has got ready while he was waiting , so he will start on the first train our way . 
He could reach Groveville on the ten , to morrow . 
Yes , we'll meet it , said mother . 
Is the carriage perfectly clean ? Father said It must be gone over . 
Our general manager here ordered me to speed up , and we drove a little coming from town . 
Mother went to planning what else should be done . 
Don't do anything ! cried Shelley . 
The house is all right . 
There's no need to work and worry into a sweat . 
He won't notice or care how things look . 
I miss my guess if he doesn't notice and care very much indeed , said mother emphatically . 
No one need think they don't see when things are not as they should be , just because they're not cattish enough to let you know it , like a woman always does . 
Shelley , wouldn't you like to ride over and spend the afternoon with the Princess ? Nope ! said Shelley . 
It's her turn to come to see me . 
Besides , you don't get me out of the way like that . 
I know what you'll do here , and I intend to help . 
Do you need one of the boys at the house ? asked father , and if you'll believe it , both of them wanted to stay . 
Father said he must have one to help wash the carriage and do a little fixing around the barn so he took Leon , but he didn't like to go . 
He said I don't see what all this fuss is about , anyway . 
Probably he'll be another Peter . 
Shelley looked at him Oh Mr. Paget isn't nearly so large as Peter , she said , and his hair is whiter than yours , while his eyes are not so blue . 
Saints preserve us ! cried Leon . 
Come on , father , let's only dust the carriage ! He's not worth washing it for . 
Is he like that ? asked mother anxiously . 
Wait and see ! said Shelley . 
Looks don't make a man . 
He has proved what he can do . 
Then all of us went to work . 
Before night we were hunting over the yard , and beside the road , to see if we could find anything to pick up . 
Six chickens were in the cellar , father was to bring meat and a long list of groceries from town in the morning . 
That made a little more trouble for father , but there was not the slightest necessity for making Mr. Paget feel that he had ridden in a delivery wagon . 
The carriage was shining when it came to the gate , so was father . 
I thought there was going to be a vacant seat beside him , and I asked if I might go along . 
He said Yes , if mother says so . 
He always would stick that in . 
So I ran to ask her , and she didn't care , if Shelley made no objections . 
I was just starting to find her , when here she came , all shining too , but Laddie was with her . 
I hadn't known that he was going , and I was so disappointed I couldn't help crying . 
What's the matter ? asked Shelley . 
Father and mother both said I might go , if you didn't care . 
Why , I'm dreadfully sorry , said Shelley , but I have several things I want Laddie to do for me . 
Laddie stooped down to kiss me good bye and he said Don't cry , Little Sister . 
The way to be happy is to be good . 
Then they drove to Groveville , and we had to wait . 
But there was so much to do , it made us fly to get all of it finished . 
So mother sent Leon after Mrs. Freshett to help in the kitchen , while Candace wore her white dress , and waited on the table . 
Mother cut flowers for the dining table , and all through the house . 
Then all of us put on our best dresses . 
Mother looked as glad and sweet as any girl , when she sat to rest a little while . 
I don't know where Leon went . 
Father stopped with a flourish , Laddie hurried around and helped Shelley , and then Mr. Paget stepped down . 
Goodness , gracious , sakes alive ! Little ? Towhead ? He was taller than Laddie . 
His hair was most as black as ink , and wavy . 
His eyes were big and dark he was broad and strong and there was the cleanest , freshest look about him . 
We went into the house , and he LIKED us , his room , and everything went exactly right . 
Robert went to shake hands , and Leon said right to his teeth Well a divil of a towhead you are ! Towhead ? said Robert , bewildered like . 
Shelley said you were a little bit of a man , with watery blue eyes , and whiter hair than mine . 
Oh I say ! cried Robert . 
Then we had dinner , and I don't remember that we ever had quite such a feast before . 
Mother had put on every single flourish she knew . 
She used her very best dishes , and linen , and no cook anywhere could beat Candace alone now she had Mrs. Freshett to help her , and mother also . 
Candace LIKED to wear her white dress , and carry things around , and they certainly were good . 
And talk ! Father , Laddie , and Robert talked over all creation . 
Shelley was very quiet she scarcely spoke or touched that delicious food . 
Once the Paget man turned to her , looking at her so fondlike , as he picked up one of her sauce dishes and her spoon and wanted to feed her . 
And he said Heah child , eat your dinnah ! You have nawthing to be fussed ovah ! I mean to propose to you , and your parents befowr night . 
That is what I am heah for . 
Every one laughed so , Shelley never got the bite but after that she perked up more and ate a little by herself . 
At last father couldn't stand it any longer , so he began asking Robert about his trip to England , and the case he had won . 
When the table was cleared for dessert , Mr. Paget asked mother to have Candace to bring his satchel . 
He opened it and spread papers all over , so that father and Laddie could see the evidence , while he told them how it was . 
It seemed there was a law in England , all of us knew about it , because father often had explained it . 
Then he left it to his eldest son , and his other boys had to work for a living . 
It kept the big estates together but my ! it was hard on the younger sons , and no one seemed even to think about the daughters . 
I never heard them mentioned . 
Now there was a very rich man he had only two sons , and each of them married , and had one son . 
The younger son died , and sent his boy for his elder brother to take care of . 
He pretended to be good , but for sure , he was bad as ever he could be . 
He knew that if his cousin were out of the way , all that land and money would be his when his uncle died . 
So he went to work and he tried for years , and a lawyer man who had no conscience at all , helped him . 
At first he didn't care what he did , so he came over here . 
So Robert went all of a sudden , like the Dead Letters told about . 
Robert had it all written out , signed and sworn to . 
He had worked for life for his friend , because the whole thing meant so much to both of them . 
I didn't propose to lose Shelley , if it were in my powah to win heh . 
When I secuahed the requiahed evidence , I couldn't wait to finish , so I came straight ovah , to make sure of heh . 
He arose and handed the satchel to father . 
I notice you have a very good looking gun convenient , he said . 
Father picked up the satchel , set it on his knees , and stroked it as if it were alive . 
Well ! Well ! he said . 
Now would any one think such a little thing could contain so much ? Shelley leaned toward Robert . 
Now about that hoss you wanted to show me he turned to Leon . 
Mother gave the signal , and we left the table . 
Father carried the satchel to his chest , made room for it , locked it in and put the key in his pocket . 
Then our men started to the barn to show the Arab Kentucky horse . 
It was beastly when I reached Chicago , had back all my letters , and found she had gone home ill . 
I've much suffering to recompense . 
I'll atone for a small portion immediately . 
He lifted Shelley right off the floor that's how big and strong he was he hugged her tight , and kissed her forehead , cheeks , and eyes . 
In the meantime , you be fixing your mouth to say , yes , also , when I propose to you , because it's coming befowr you sleep . 
Shelley was like a peach blossom . 
She reached up and touched his cheek , while she looked at mother all smiling , and sparkling , as she said You see ! Mother smiled back . 
I do , indeed ! she answered . 
Leon pulled Mr. Paget's sleeve . 
Aw quit lally gaggin' and come see a real horse , he said . 
Robert put his other arm around Leon , drew him to his side and hugged him as if he were a girl . 
I'm so glad Shelley has a lawge family , he said . 
I'm so proud of all the brothers I'm going to have . 
I was the only boy at home . 
You haven't told us about your family , said mother . 
No , said Robert , but I intend to . 
I have a family ! One of the finest on uth . 
We'll talk about them after this hoss is inspected . 
He let Shelley go and walked away , his arm still around Leon . 
Shelley ran to mother and both of them sobbed out loud . 
NOW YOU SEE HOW IT WAS ! she said . 
You poor child ! cried mother . 
Indeed I DO see how it was . 
You've been a brave girl . 
A good , brave girl ! Father and I are mighty proud of you ! Oh mother ! I thought you were ashamed of me ! sobbed Shelley . 
Oh my child ! said mother quavery like . 
Oh my child ! You surely see that none of us could understand , as we do now . 
She patted Shelley , and told her to run upstairs and lie down for a while , because she was afraid she would be sick . 
We mustn't have a pale , tired girl right now , said mother . 
Well ! said Shelley , but she just stood there holding mother . 
Well ? said mother gripping her . 
You see ! said Shelley . 
Child , said mother , I DO see ! I see six feet of as handsome manhood as I ever have seen anywhere . 
His manner is perfect , and I find his speech most attractive . 
I am delighted with him . 
I do see indeed ! Your father is quite as proud and pleased as I am . 
Shelley held up her lips , and then went . 
The Paget man stood there looking and listening gravely , as he studied the horse . 
At last he went over her , and gee ! but he knew horse ! Then Laddie brought out Flos and they talked all about her , and then went into the barn . 
Then they went into the orchard , sat under the trees and began talking about business conditions . 
That was so dry I went back to the house . 
It was the one the Princess had come to Sally's wedding in so I knew she was in the house visiting Shelley . 
They talked about everything , and it was easy to see that the Pryor door was OPEN so far as we were concerned , anyway . 
Mrs. Pryor was just as nice and friendly as she could be , and so was he . 
She met a young man in Chicago last fall and he's here now to ask our consent . 
All of us are quite charmed with him . 
That's why she's so happy . 
Then the Princess sprang up and kissed Shelley , so did Mrs. Pryor , while such a chatter you never heard . 
No one could repeat what they said , for as many as three talked at the same time . 
Oh do let's have a double wedding ! cried the Princess when the excitement was over a little . 
I think it would be great fun do let's ! When are you planning for ? Nothing is settled yet , said Shelley . 
We've had no time to talk ! Mercy ! cried the Princess . 
Go make your arrangements quickly ! Hurry up , then come over , and we'll plan for the same time . 
It will be splendid ! Don't you think that would be fine , Mrs. Stanton ? I can't see any objections to it , said mother . 
Where is your young man ? I'm crazy to see him , cried the Princess . 
If you have gone and found a better looking one than mine , I'll never speak to you again . 
She hasn't ! cried Mrs. Pryor calmly , like that settled it . 
They're not made ! I am not so sure of that , said Shelley proudly . 
The Paget man was all right , but I wasn't going to lose my head over him . 
Go see where the men are , said Shelley to me . 
I went to the back door , and their heads were bobbing far down in the orchard . 
They're under the greening apple tree , I reported . 
If you will excuse us , said Shelley to Mr. and Mrs. Pryor , we'll walk down a few minutes and prove that I'm right . 
Don't stay , said Mrs. Pryor . 
This trip is so unusual for me that I'm quite tired . 
For a first venture , in such a long time , I think I've done well . 
But now I'm beginning to feel I should go home . 
Go straight along , said the Princess . 
I'll walk across the fields , or Thomas can come back after me . 
So Mr. and Mrs. Pryor went away , while the Princess , Shelley , May , and I walked through the orchard toward the men . 
At last the Paget man drew a deep , quivery breath and sort of shook himself as he gazed at her . 
Why , Pam ! he cried . 
She covered her eyes with her hands . 
He drew back and smiled , the red rushed into his face , and he began to be alive again . 
Laddie went to the Princess and took her hands . 
What does this mean ? he begged . 
She pulled away from him , and went to the Paget man slowly , her big eyes wild and strained . 
Robert ! how did you get here ? Were you hunting us ? All ovah England , yes , he said . 
Not heah ! I came heah to see Shelley . 
When they were together you wondered why in this world you hadn't thought of it the instant you saw him alone . 
They were like as two peas . 
We gazed at them , open mouthed , like as not , and no one said a word . 
At last Mr. Paget looked over the Princess' shoulder at father and said I can explain this , Mr. Stanton , in a very few wuds . 
The case was my own . 
The evidence I secuahed was for myself . 
This is my only sisteh . 
Heh people are mine The relationship is apparent , said father . 
There is a striking likeness between you and your sister , and I can discern traces of your parents in your face , speech and manner . 
He's much worse ! The longer he broods , the more mother grieves , the bitterer he becomes . 
Mr. Stanton , he is always armed . 
Oh what shall we do ? Miss Pamela , said Leon , did your man Thomas know your brother in England ? All his life . 
Well , then , we'd better be doing something quick . 
He tied the horses and was walking up and down the road while he waited , and he saw us plainly when we crossed the wood yard a while ago . 
He followed us and stared so , I couldn't help noticing him . 
I must have seen him in the village this morning . 
A man reminded me of him , then I remembered how like people of his type are , and concluded I was mistaken . 
Mr. Stanton , you have agreed that the evidence I hold is sufficient . 
She knows what provocation I had , and exactly what happened . 
Let heh tell you ! I don't feel that I require any further information , said father . 
You see , I happen to be fairly well acquainted with Mr. Pryor . 
Pryor ? He made us use that name here , explained the Princess . 
WELL , HIS NAME IS PAGET ! said Robert angrily . 
Laddie told me long ago he didn't believe it was Pryor . 
Shelley caught him by the arm . 
No wonder ! She hadn't been proposed to , or even had a kiss on her lips . 
You come straight to the house , she said . 
Thomas may tell your father he thought he saw you . 
That was about as serious as anything could be , but nothing ever stopped Leon . 
Would Thomas tell your father ? she asked the Princess . 
The instant he saw him alone , yes . 
Hold one minute ! cried father . 
We must think of our mother , just a little . 
Shelley , you and the girls run up and explain how this is . 
Better all of you go to the house , except Mr. Paget . 
He'll be safe here as anywhere . 
Mr. Pryor will stop there , if he comes . 
So it would be best for you to keep out of sight , Robert , until I have had a little talk with him . 
I'll stay here , I offered . 
We'll talk until you get Mr. Pryor cooled off . 
He can be awful ragesome when he's excited , and it doesn't take much to start him . 
You're right about that ! agreed Robert . 
My ! but she'd be glad ! It would save her many a powerful prayer . 
I was telling Robert all about the time his father visited us , and what my mother said to him , and he said She'd be the one to talk with him now . 
Possibly he'd listen to her , until he got it through his head that his own son is not a common thief . 
Maybe he'll have to be held , like taking quinine , and made to listen , I said . 
That would be easy , if he were not a walking ahsenal , said Robert . 
You have small chance to reason with a half crazy man while he is handling a pistol . 
But he'll shoot ! I cried . 
The Princess said he'd shoot ! So he will ! said Robert . 
Shoot first , then find out how things are , and kill himself and every one else with remorse , afterward . 
He is made that way . 
Then he doesn't dare see you until he finds out how mistaken he has been , I said , for I was growing to like Robert better every minute longer I knew him . 
Besides , there was the Princess , looking like him as possible , and loving him of course , like I did Laddie , maybe . 
CHAPTER XVIII The Pryor Mystery And now old Dodson , turning pale , Yields to his fate so ends my tale . 
It didn't take me long to see why Shelley liked Robert Paget . 
He was one of the very most likeable persons I ever had seen . 
He had ridden through the pasture , and was coming down the creek bank . 
He was a spectacle to behold . 
A mile away you could see that Thomas had told him he had seen Robert , and where he was . 
Father had been mistaken in thinking Mr. Pryor would go to the house . 
He had lost his hat , his white hair was flying , his horse was in a lather , and he seemed to be talking to himself . 
Robert took one good look . 
Ye Gods ! he cried . 
There he comes now , a chattering madman ! The Station , I panted . 
Up that ravine ! Roll back the stone and pull the door shut after you . 
Quick ! He never could have been inside , before Mr. Pryor's horse was raving along the embankment beside the fence . 
Where is he ? he cried . 
Saw who ? I asked with clicking teeth . 
A tall , slender man , with a handsome face , and the heart of a devil . 
Yes , there was a man here like that in the face . 
I didn't see his heart , I said . 
Which way ? raved Mr. Pryor . 
Which way ? Is he at your house ? Then I saw that he had the reins in his left hand , and a big revolver in his right . 
So there was no mistake about whether he'd really shoot . 
But that gun provoked me . 
People have no business to be careless with those things . 
They're dangerous ! He didn't do what you think he did , I cried , and he can prove he didn't , if you'll stop cavorting , and listen to reason . 
Mr. Pryor leaned over the fence , dark purple like a beet now . 
You tell me where he is , or I'll choke it out of you , he said . 
I guess he meant it . 
I took one long look at his lean , clawlike fingers , and put both hands around my neck . 
He knew Thomas saw him . 
He went that way , I said , waving off toward the north . 
Hah ! striking for petticoats , as usual ! he cried , and away he went in the direction of his house . 
Then I flew for the Station . 
Come from there , quick ! I cried . 
I've sent him back to his house , but when he finds you're not there , he will come here again . 
Hurry , and I'll put you in the woodshed loft . 
He'd never think of looking there . 
He came out and we started toward the house , going pretty fast . 
Almost to the back gate we met Shelley . 
Does mother know ? I asked . 
I just told her , she said . 
Father , I cried , going in the back dining room door . 
Mr. Pryor was down in the meadow on Ranger . 
Thomas did see Robert , and his father is hunting him with a gun . 
Oh father , he'll come again , and he's crazy , father ! Clear , raving crazy ! I know he'll come again ! Yes , said father calmly . 
I think it very probable that he will come again . 
Then he started around shutting and latching windows , closing and locking the doors , and he carefully loaded his gun , and leaned it against the front casing . 
Then he put on his glasses , and began examining the papers they had brought out again . 
Robert stood beside him , and explained and showed him . 
You see with me out of the way , the English law would give everything to my cousin , he said , and he explained it all over again . 
And to think how he always posed for a perfect saint ! cried the Princess . 
Oh I hope the devil knows how to make him pay for what all of us have suffered ! Child ! Child ! cried mother . 
I can't help it ! said the Princess . 
Let me tell you , Mr. Stanton . 
It made father what he is , she said . 
He would have killed Robert , if our friends hadn't helped him away . 
He will now , if he isn't stopped . 
In a minute he'll be back again . 
Oh what are we going to do ? Father was laying out the papers that he wanted to use very carefully . 
These constitute all the proof any court would require , he said to Robert . 
If he returns , all of you keep from sight . 
This is my house I'll manage who comes here , in my own way . 
But you must be allowed to take no risk ! cried Robert . 
I cawn't consent to youah facing danger for me . 
There will be no risk , said father . 
There is no reason why he should want to injure me . 
As the master of this house , I am accustomed to being obeyed . 
If he comes , step into the parlour there , until I call you . 
He was busy with the papers when he saw Mr. Pryor coming . 
I wondered if he would jump the yard fence and ride down mother's flowers , but he left his horse at the hitching rack , and pounded on the front door . 
Did any of you notice whether he was displaying a revolver ? asked father . 
Yes father ! Yes ! I cried . 
And he's shaking so I'm afraid he'll make it go , when he doesn't intend to . 
Father picked up and levelled his rifle on the front door . 
Leon , he said , you're pretty agile . 
Open this door , keep yourself behind it , and step around in the parlour . 
The rest of you get out , and stay out of range . 
Those nearest hurried into the parlour . 
There had been nothing for Mrs. Freshett to do all afternoon , so she had gone over to visit an hour with Amanda Deam . 
Now Mr. Pryor probably thought father would meet him with the Bible in his hand , and read a passage about loving your neighbour as yourself . 
I'll bet anything you can mention that he never expected to find himself looking straight down the barrel of a shining big rifle when that door swung open . 
It surprised him so , he staggered , and his arm wavered . 
If he had shot and hit anything then , it would have been an accident . 
Got you over the heart , said father , in precisely the same voice he always said , This is a fine day we are having . 
Now why are you coming here in such a shape ? This was a little cross . 
I'm not the man to cringe before you ! This was quite boastful . 
You'll get bullet for bullet , if you attempt to invade my house with a gun . 
This pinged as if father shot words instead of bullets . 
I want my daughter to come home , said Mr. Pryor . 
And if you're sheltering the thief she is trying to hide , yield him up , if you would save yourself . 
Calm yourself , man , and hear what there is to be said ! Examine the proof , that is here waiting to be offered to you . 
Once and but once , send them out , or I'll enter over you ! cried Mr. Pryor . 
Sorry , said father , but if only a muscle of your trigger finger moves , you fall before I do . 
I've the best range , and the most suitable implement for the work . 
She had come back to help get supper , and because the kitchen was locked , she had gone around the house to see if she could get in at the front . 
What she saw closed her mouth , and straightened her back . 
WHY , YOU TWO OLD FOOLS ! she cried . 
IF YE AIN'T DRAWED A BEAD ON EACH OTHER ! None of us saw her do it . 
We only knew after it was over what must have happened . 
She had said she'd risk her life for mother . 
She never stopped an instant when her chance came . 
She must have turned , and thrown her big body against Mr. Pryor . 
He was tired , old , and shaking with anger . 
They went down together , she gripping his right wrist with both hands , and she was strong as most men . 
Father set the gun beside the door , and bent over them . 
A minute more and he handed the revolver to Leon , and helped Mrs. Freshett to her feet . 
Mr. Pryor lay all twisted on the walk , his face was working , and what he said was a stiff jabber no one could understand . 
He had broken into the pieces we often feared he would . 
Robert and Laddie came running to help father carry him in , and lay him on the couch . 
I hope , Miss Stanton , said Mrs. Freshett , that I wa'n't too rough with him . 
Mother put her arms around her as far as they would reach . 
Undoubtedly you have kept us from a fearful tragedy possibly you have saved my husband for me . 
None of us ever can thank you enough . 
Loosen his collar and give him air , said Mrs. Freshett pushing mother away . 
I think likely he has bust a blood vessel . 
Father sent Leon flying to bring Dr . 
We poured hot stuff down his throat , put warm things around him , and rubbed him until the sweat ran on us , trying to get his knotted muscles straightened out . 
Seemed to me having Mrs. Freshett come against you like that , could be called a good deal more than a stroke , but I couldn't think of the right word then . 
And after all , perhaps stroke was enough . 
He couldn't have been much worse off if the barn had fallen on him . 
Leon said if the sparkin' bench didn't bring him to , nothing would . 
Laddie sat beside him and mother kept peeping . 
Fenner go , because she said Mr. Pryor just must come out of it right , and have a few years of peace and happiness . 
Mrs. Pryor came back with Laddie and Robert . 
He carried her in , put her in the big rocking chair again , and he sat beside her , stroking and kissing her , while she held him with both hands . 
You could see NOW why his mother couldn't sleep , walked the road , and held her hands over her heart . 
She was a brave woman , and she had done well to keep alive and going in any shape at all . 
There had been only the few hours when it seemed possible that one of our boys had taken father's money and was gone . 
I well remembered what happened to our mother then . 
Mrs. Pryor didn't want to see Mr. Pryor I can't get used to calling them Paget and she didn't ask anything about him . 
I guess she was pretty mad at him . 
That's a very bad thing . 
A woman should always have some money . 
She works as hard as any one , and usually she has more that worries her , so it's only fair for her to have part of what the work and worry bring . 
Why , she has so much , she can help father out when he is pushed with bills , as she did last fall , to start Shelley to music school . 
It's no way to be forced to live with a man , just to get a home , food , and clothing . 
I don't believe mother ever would do it in all this world . 
But then mother has worked all her life , and so if father doesn't do as she wants him to , she'd know exactly how to go about taking care of herself . 
After all Mrs. Pryor didn't need to sit back on her dignity and look so abused . 
He couldn't knock her down , and drag her clear here . 
I bet if she'd had one tenth of the ginger mother has , she'd have stopped the whole fuss in the start . 
I looked at her almost steadily , trying to figure out just what mother would have done in her place . 
She always thinks a minute , if she's in doubt she asks father if he can't decide , both of them ask God and then you ought to see things begin to fly . 
I had a big notion to tell her to come on , and I would show her where the cannister was , but I thought I better not . 
I wanted to , though . 
She'd have felt much better if she had got up and worked like the rest of us . 
That I jest would ! said Mrs. Freshett . 
I'll do it , if you say the word . 
Mother bit her lip , and fought her face to keep it straight , as she said confidential like No , I'm not going to toady to her . 
I only want her to see that a meal really consists of food after all I don't mind putting my best foot foremost , but I won't ape her . 
Huccome they to fuss like this , peaceable as Mr. Stanton be , an' what's Shelley's beau to them ? I should think you could tell by looking at Pryors , said mother . 
He's their mystery , and also their son . 
Shelley met him in Chicago , he came here to see her , and ran right into them . 
I'll tell you about it before you go . 
I bet you don't get shet of them the night , said Mrs. Freshett . 
All right ! said mother . 
I won't have Mr. Pryor moved until it can't hurt him , if he stays a week . 
I blame her quite as much as I do him from what I know . 
There ! What did I tell you ? I feel as good as if father had patted me on the head and bragged on me a lot . 
I THOUGHT mother wouldn't think that Mr. Pryor was ALL to blame , and she didn't . 
I figured that out by myself , too . 
Every minute Mr. Pryor grew better . 
She hurried to tell Mrs. Pryor , and I know mother didn't like it when she never even said she was glad , or went to see for herself . 
Laddie and the Princess watched him , while every one else went to supper . 
Laddie picked up Mrs. Pryor's chair , carried her to the dining room , and set her in my place beside father . 
Fenner next her , and left Robert to sit with Shelley . 
I don't think Mrs. Pryor quite liked that , but no one asked her . 
I watched and listened until everything seemed to be going right there , and then I slipped into the parlour , where Laddie and the Princess were caring for Mr. Pryor . 
With one hand Laddie held hers , the other grasped Mr. Pryor's wrist . 
Laddie never took his eyes from that white , drawn face , except to smile at her , and squeeze her hand every little while . 
He struggled to sit up and the colour came into his face . 
So Laddie let go the Princess , and held him down while he said Mr. Pryor , answer me this . 
Oh yes you do ! said Laddie , the same as he'd have talked to Leon . 
You can't stuff me on that , and you needn't try . 
Being dead is a cold , clammy proposition , that all of us put off as long as we can . 
You know you want to see Pamela in her own home . 
You know you are interested in how I come out with those horses . 
You know you want the little people you spoke of , around you . 
You know the pain and suspense you have borne have almost driven you insane , and it was because you cared so deeply . 
Hold steady ! You must hear this ! The sooner you know it , the better you'll feel . 
You remember , don't you , that before your nephew entered your home , you idolized your son . 
You thought the things he did were amusing . 
A boy is a boy , and if he's alive , he's very apt to be lively . 
Mother could tell you a few pranks that Leon has put us through but they're only a boy's foolishness , they are not unusual or unforgivable . 
I've gone over the evidence your son brings , with extreme care , so has father . 
Both of us are quite familiar with common law . 
He has every proof you can possibly desire . 
You can't get around it , even if your heart wasn't worn out with rebellion , and you were not crazy to have the loving sympathy of your family again . 
I don't believe a word of it ! You have got to ! I tell you it is PROOF , man ! The documents are in this house now . 
He forged them , or stole them , as he took the money ! Laddie just laughed . 
How you do long , and fight , to be convinced ! he said . 
I don't blame you ! When anything means this much , of course you must be sure . 
But you'll know your nephew's signature also your lawyer's . 
You'll know letters from old friends who are above question . 
Sandy McSheel has written you that he was with Robert through all of it , and he gives you his word that everything is all right . 
Tell me ! he said at last , so they took turns explaining everything plain as day , and soon he listened without being held . 
When they had told him everything they could think of , he asked Did Robert kill Emmet ? I am very happy to be able to tell you that he did not . 
It would have been painful , and not helped a bad matter a particle . 
Your nephew had dissipated until he was only a skeleton just breathing his last . 
It's probable that his fear of death helped your son out , so that he got the evidence he wanted easier than he hoped to in the beginning . 
I don't mean that he is dead now but he is passing slowly , and loathsomely . 
Robert thinks word that he has gone will come any hour . 
Aren't some people too curious ? Laddie carefully laid him down , straightened him out and held him again . 
Mother always said he was patient as Job , and that day it proved to be a good thing . 
You're determined to keep yourself well supplied with trouble , laughed Laddie . 
I don't believe any one else would have dared . 
Now to an unbiased observer , it would seem that you'd be ready to let well enough alone . 
He went with Robert fully intending to do that very thing for you , but the poor creature was too loathsome . 
The sight of him made Sandy sick . 
He writes you that when he saw the horrible spectacle , all he could think of was to secure the evidence needed and get away . 
Suddenly the Princess arose and knelt beside the davenport . 
She put her arms around her father's neck and drew his wrinkled , white old face up against her lovely one . 
Daddy ! Dear old Daddy ! she cried . 
I've had such a hard spot in my heart against you for so long . 
Oh do let's forget everything , and begin all over again begin away back where we were before Emmet ever came . 
Oh Daddy , do let's forget , and begin all over new , like other people ! He held her tight a minute , then his lips began whispering against her ear . 
Finally he said Take yourselves off , and send Robert here . 
Then Leon went to tell Thomas , and he came with the big carriage . 
That fall there were two weddings at our church at the same time . 
Sally's had been fine but it wasn't worth mentioning beside Laddie and the Princess , and Robert and Shelley . 
I guess I gave Mr. Pryor the first , that time he got so angry he hit his horse until it almost ran away . 
Mother delivered the second when she curry combed him about the taxes , and Mrs. Freshett finished the job . 
The last two lines read as if they had been especially written about him And now old Dodson , turning pale , Yields to his fate so ends my tale . 
