He was a man of exuberant fancy , and , withal , of an authority so irresistible that , at his will , he turned his varied fancies into facts . 
He was greatly given to self communing , and , when he and himself agreed upon anything , the thing was done . 
Directly opposite him , on the other side of the inclosed space , were two doors , exactly alike and side by side . 
It was the duty and the privilege of the person on trial to walk directly to these doors and open one of them . 
He could open either door he pleased he was subject to no guidance or influence but that of the aforementioned impartial and incorruptible chance . 
The exercises , as in the other instance , took place immediately , and in the arena . 
This was the king's semi barbaric method of administering justice . 
Its perfect fairness is obvious . 
On some occasions the tiger came out of one door , and on some out of the other . 
There was no escape from the judgments of the king's arena . 
The institution was a very popular one . 
When the people gathered together on one of the great trial days , they never knew whether they were to witness a bloody slaughter or a hilarious wedding . 
This element of uncertainty lent an interest to the occasion which it could not otherwise have attained . 
As is usual in such cases , she was the apple of his eye , and was loved by him above all humanity . 
Among his courtiers was a young man of that fineness of blood and lowness of station common to the conventional heroes of romance who love royal maidens . 
This love affair moved on happily for many months , until one day the king happened to discover its existence . 
He did not hesitate nor waver in regard to his duty in the premises . 
The youth was immediately cast into prison , and a day was appointed for his trial in the king's arena . 
This , of course , was an especially important occasion , and his majesty , as well as all the people , was greatly interested in the workings and development of this trial . 
Never before had such a case occurred never before had a subject dared to love the daughter of the king . 
In after years such things became commonplace enough , but then they were in no slight degree novel and startling . 
Of course , everybody knew that the deed with which the accused was charged had been done . 
From far and near the people gathered , and thronged the great galleries of the arena , and crowds , unable to gain admittance , massed themselves against its outside walls . 
The king and his court were in their places , opposite the twin doors , those fateful portals , so terrible in their similarity . 
A door beneath the royal party opened , and the lover of the princess walked into the arena . 
Tall , beautiful , fair , his appearance was greeted with a low hum of admiration and anxiety . 
Half the audience had not known so grand a youth had lived among them . 
His eyes were fixed upon the princess , who sat to the right of her father . 
She knew in which of the two rooms , that lay behind those doors , stood the cage of the tiger , with its open front , and in which waited the lady . 
But gold , and the power of a woman's will , had brought the secret to the princess . 
He had expected her to know it . 
Then it was that his quick and anxious glance asked the question Which ? It was as plain to her as if he shouted it from where he stood . 
There was not an instant to be lost . 
The question was asked in a flash it must be answered in another . 
Her right arm lay on the cushioned parapet before her . 
She raised her hand , and made a slight , quick movement toward the right . 
No one but her lover saw her . 
Every eye but his was fixed on the man in the arena . 
He turned , and with a firm and rapid step he walked across the empty space . 
Every heart stopped beating , every breath was held , every eye was fixed immovably upon that man . 
Without the slightest hesitation , he went to the door on the right , and opened it . 
It involves a study of the human heart which leads us through devious mazes of passion , out of which it is difficult to find our way . 
She had known she would be asked , she had decided what she would answer , and , without the slightest hesitation , she had moved her hand to the right . 
The question of her decision is one not to be lightly considered , and it is not for me to presume to set myself up as the one person able to answer it . 
