Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Of course , being a prince , people said this but it was true besides . 
When he looked at the candle , his eyes had an expression of earnest inquiry quite startling in a new born baby . 
The only person who was not quite happy was the King's brother , the heir presumptive , who would have been king one day had the baby not been born . 
The Prince's christening was to be a grand affair . 
When he came of age , he himself had to choose the name and the godfather or god mother that he liked the best , for the rest of his days . 
As for the palace which was no different from other palaces it was clean turned out of the windows , as people say , with the preparations going on . 
The only quiet place in it was the room which , though the Prince was six weeks old , his mother the Queen had never quitted . 
All the world was absorbed in admiring the baby . 
The christening day came at last , and it was as lovely as the Prince himself . 
She was a very uncomplaining person , the Queen and her name was Dolorez . 
Everything went on exactly as if she had been present . 
All , even the king himself , had grown used to her absence for she was not strong , and for years had not joined in any gayeties . 
She always did her royal duties , but as to pleasures , they could go on quite well without her , or it seemed so . 
Soon the ceremony was over , and everybody satisfied except , perhaps , the little Prince himself , who moaned faintly under his christening robes , which nearly smothered him . 
In truth , though very few knew , the Prince in coming to the chapel had met with a slight disaster . 
To be sure , she contrived to pick him up again the next minute and the accident was so slight it seemed hardly worth speaking of . 
Consequently nobody did speak of it . 
It would have been a pity to let anything trouble such a day of felicity . 
So , after a minute's pause , the procession had moved on . 
Her hair was gray , and her eyes also even her complexion had a soft gray shadow over it . 
Take care ! Don't let the baby fall again . 
The grand young lady nurse started , flushing angrily . 
Keep away his Royal Highness is just going to sleep . 
Nevertheless I must kiss him . 
I am his god mother . 
You ! cried the elegant lady nurse . 
You ! repeated all the gentlemen and ladies in waiting . 
You ! echoed the heralds and pages and they began to blow the silver trumpets in order to stop all further conversation . 
She stretched herself on tiptoe by the help of her stick , and gave the little Prince three kisses . 
This is intolerable ! cried the young lady nurse , wiping the kisses off rapidly with her lace handkerchief . 
Such an insult to his Royal Highness ! Take yourself out of the way , old woman , or the King shall be informed immediately . 
My friend in the palace is the King's wife . 
King's have not wives , but queens , said the lady nurse , with a contemptuous air . 
You are right , replied the old woman . 
Nevertheless I know her Majesty well , and I love her and her child . 
I choose to take him for my own , and be his godmother , ready to help him whenever he wants me . 
You help him ! cried all the group breaking into shouts of laughter , to which the little old woman paid not the slightest attention . 
Her soft gray eyes were fixed on the Prince , who seemed to answer to the look , smiling again and again in the causeless , aimless fashion that babies do smile . 
His Majesty must hear of this , said a gentleman in waiting . 
His Majesty will hear quite enough news in a minute or two , said the old woman sadly . 
And again stretching up to the little Prince , she kissed him on the forehead solemnly . 
Be called by a new name which nobody has ever thought of . 
Be Prince Dolor , in memory of your mother Dolorez . 
In memory of ! Everybody started at the ominous phrase , and also at a most terrible breach of etiquette which the old woman had committed . 
In Nomansland , neither the king nor the queen was supposed to have any Christian name at all . 
They dropped it on their coronation day , and it never was mentioned again till it was engraved on their coffins when they died . 
Old woman , you are exceedingly ill bred , cried the eldest lady in waiting , much horrified . 
How you could know the fact passes my comprehension . 
They listened , mute and horror stricken . 
Some one counted one two three four up to nine and twenty just the Queen's age . 
It was , indeed , the Queen . 
Her Majesty was dead ! In the midst of the festivities she had slipped away out of her new happiness and her old sufferings , not few nor small . 
So gazing , she had quietly died . 
When the little Prince was carried back to his mother's room , there was no mother to kiss him . 
And , though he did not know it , there would be for him no mother's kiss any more . 
She put her hand before her own , screaming loudly . 
When she took them away the old woman was gone . 
CHAPTER II Everybody was very kind to the poor little prince . 
I think people generally are kind to motherless children , whether princes or peasants . 
He had a magnificent nursery and a regular suite of attendants , and was treated with the greatest respect and state . 
It could not be said that the Prince missed his mother children of his age cannot do that but somehow after she died everything seemed to go wrong with him . 
From a beautiful baby he became sickly and pale , seeming to have almost ceased growing , especially in his legs , which had been so fat and strong . 
This happened so many times that at last people began to talk about it . 
Everybody knew , though nobody said it , that something , it was impossible to guess what , was not quite right with the poor little Prince . 
Of course , nobody hinted this to the King his father it does not do to tell great people anything unpleasant . 
And besides , his Majesty took very little notice of his son , or of his other affairs , beyond the necessary duties of his kingdom . 
People had said he would not miss the Queen at all , she having been so long an invalid , but he did . 
After her death he never was quite the same . 
How old is his Royal Highness ? said he suddenly to the nurse . 
Two years , three months , and five days , please your Majesty . 
It does not please me , said the King , with a sigh . 
He ought to be far more forward than he is now ought he not , brother ? You , who have so many children , must know . 
Nothing to make your Majesty at all uneasy . 
No doubt his Royal Highness will outgrow it in time . 
Outgrow what ? A slight delicacy ahem ! in the spine something inherited , perhaps , from his dear mother . 
Ah , she was always delicate but she was the sweetest woman that ever lived . 
Come here , my little son . 
And as the Prince turned round upon his father a small , sweet , grave face , so like his mother's , his Majesty the King smiled and held out his arms . 
But when the boy came to him , not running like a boy , but wriggling awkwardly along the floor , the royal countenance clouded over . 
I ought to have been told of this . 
It is terrible terrible ! And for a prince too . 
Send for all the doctors in my kingdom immediately . 
They came , and each gave a different opinion and ordered a different mode of treatment . 
Did nobody remember ? No , nobody . 
The whole thing was too painful , and his Majesty never liked painful things . 
Sometimes he inquired after Prince Dolor , and they told him his Royal Highness was going on as well as could be expected , which really was the case . 
He could not walk , it is true his limbs were mere useless appendages to his body but the body itself was strong and sound . 
And his face was the same as ever just his mother's face , one of the sweetest in the world . 
If anything should befall me , I have appointed you Regent . 
In case of my death , you will take care of my poor little boy ? Certainly , certainly but do not let us imagine any such misfortune . 
I assure your Majesty everybody will assure you that it is not in the least likely . 
He knew , however , and everybody knew , that it was likely , and soon after it actually did happen . 
He was more than that now , though . 
In Nomansland , as in other countries , the people were struck with grief one day and revived the next . 
Very unfortunate ! Exceedingly unfortunate , repeated the second lord . 
It is always bad for a nation when its king is a child but such a child a permanent cripple , if not worse . 
Let us hope not worse , said the first lord in a very hopeless tone , and looking toward the Regent , who stood erect and pretended to hear nothing . 
And I will do my humble best to govern the country . 
All things went on as usual indeed , after the Regent had brought his wife and her seven sons , and established them in the palace , rather better than usual . 
For they gave such splendid entertainments and made the capital so lively that trade revived , and the country was said to be more flourishing than it had been for a century . 
They rather perplexed people , those childish eyes they were so exceedingly innocent and yet so penetrating . 
Now , I have nothing to say against uncles in general . 
They are usually very excellent people , and very convenient to little boys and girls . 
Even the cruel uncle of the Babes in the Wood I believe to be quite an exceptional character . 
And this cruel uncle of whom I am telling was , I hope , an exception , too . 
He did not mean to be cruel . 
If anybody had called him so , he would have resented it extremely he would have said that what he did was done entirely for the good of the country . 
So he tried to get it , and got it too , as people like him very often do . 
Whether they enjoy it when they have it is another question . 
He had fallen ill on the road and died within a few hours at least so declared the physician in attendance and the nurse who had been sent to take care of him . 
They brought his coffin back in great state , and buried it in the mausoleum with his parents . 
So Prince Dolor was seen no more . 
The country went into deep mourning for him , and then forgot him , and his uncle reigned in his stead . 
That illustrious personage accepted his crown with great decorum , and wore it with great dignity to the last . 
But whether he enjoyed it or not there is no evidence to show . 
CHAPTER III And what of the little lame Prince , whom everybody seemed so easily to have forgotten ? Not everybody . 
Not a bush not a tree not a resting place for bird or beast was in that dreary plain . 
Not a pleasant place to live in and nobody did live there , apparently . 
Rose right up out of the ground , as if it had grown of itself , like a mushroom . 
But it was not at all mushroom like on the contrary , it was very solidly built . 
Its height was nearly a hundred feet , and it had a battlemented parapet showing sharp against the sky . 
As the plain was quite desolate almost like a desert , only without sand , and led to nowhere except the still more desolate seacoast nobody ever crossed it . 
Whatever mystery there was about the tower , it and the sky and the plain kept their secret to themselves . 
It was a very great secret indeed , a state secret , which none but so clever a man as the present King of Nomansland would ever have thought of . 
How he carried it out , undiscovered , I cannot tell . 
And what was the fact ? Why , that this tower , which seemed a mere mass of masonry , utterly forsaken and uninhabited , was not so at all . 
A charming place to live in ! if you once got up there , and never wanted to come down again . 
For its only inhabitant , except a nurse of course , was a poor solitary child . 
She was to inhabit the lonely tower with the child , and was allowed to live as long as the child lived no longer . 
This in order that she might take the utmost care of him for those who put him there were equally afraid of his dying and of his living . 
And he was very helpless , with his poor , small shriveled legs , which could neither stand nor run away for the little forlorn boy was Prince Dolor . 
He had not been dead at all or buried either . 
The latter was deaf and dumb , so could neither tell nor repeat anything . 
When they reached the foot of the tower , there was light enough to see a huge chain dangling from the parapet , but dangling only halfway . 
The deaf mute took from his saddle wallet a sort of ladder , arranged in pieces like a puzzle , fitted it together , and lifted it up to meet the chain . 
Leaving them there , the man descended the ladder , took it to pieces again and packed it in his pack , mounted the horse and disappeared across the plain . 
Every month they used to watch for him , appearing like a speck in the distance . 
He fastened his horse to the foot of the tower , and climbed it , as before , laden with provisions and many other things . 
He always saw the Prince , so as to make sure that the child was alive and well , and then went away until the following month . 
While his first childhood lasted Prince Dolor was happy enough . 
He had every luxury that even a prince could need , and the one thing wanting , love , never having known , he did not miss . 
His nurse was very kind to him though she was a wicked woman . 
It was not an unhappy life . 
There was nobody to tease or ill use him , and he was never ill . 
In fact , he was very much like a puppy or a kitten , as thoughtless and as merry scarcely ever cross , though sometimes a little weary . 
By and by he began to learn lessons not that his nurse had been ordered to teach him , but she did it partly to amuse herself . 
It was a dull life , but he had never known any other anyhow , he remembered no other , and he did not pity himself at all . 
Not for a long time , till he grew quite a big little boy , and could read quite easily . 
From this time a change came over the boy . 
He began to look sad and thin , and to shut himself up for hours without speaking . 
For his nurse hardly spoke , and whatever questions he asked beyond their ordinary daily life she never answered . 
She had , indeed , been forbidden , on pain of death , to tell him anything about himself , who he was , or what he might have been . 
He knew he was Prince Dolor , because she always addressed him as My Prince and Your Royal Highness , but what a prince was he had not the least idea . 
He had no idea of anything in the world , except what he found in his books . 
He sat one day surrounded by them , having built them up round him like a little castle wall . 
Not a very cheerful view , just the plain and the sky , but he liked it . 
Not that he understood much what dying meant , but it must be a change , and any change seemed to him a blessing . 
And I wish I had somebody to tell me all about it about that and many other things somebody that would be fond of me , like my poor white kitten . 
Yes , I wish I had something better than a kitten a person , a real live person , who would be fond of me and kind to me . 
A little woman , no bigger than he might himself have been had his legs grown like those of other children but she was not a child she was an old woman . 
Her hair was gray , and her dress was gray , and there was a gray shadow over her wherever she moved . 
But she had the sweetest smile , the prettiest hands , and when she spoke it was in the softest voice imaginable . 
And you are very welcome , madam , replied the Prince , trying to speak politely , as princes always did in books and I am exceedingly obliged to you . 
May I ask who you are ? Perhaps my mother ? For he knew that little boys usually had a mother , and had occasionally wondered what had become of his own . 
Will you tell her to come and see me , then ? She cannot but I dare say she knows all about you . 
And she loves you very much and so do I and I want to help you all I can , my poor little boy . 
Why do you call me poor ? asked Prince Dolor , in surprise . 
Looking at him , instead of sighing , she smiled . 
I beg your pardon , my Prince , said she . 
Yes , I am a prince , and my name is Dolor will you tell me yours , madam ? The little old woman laughed like a chime of silver bells . 
I have not got a name or , rather , I have so many names that I don't know which to choose . 
However , it was I who gave you yours , and you will belong to me all your days . 
Hurrah ! cried the little Prince I am glad I belong to you , for I like you very much . 
Will you come and play with me ? So they sat down together and played . 
By and by they began to talk . 
Are you very dull here ? asked the little old woman . 
Not particularly , thank you , godmother . 
I have plenty to eat and drink , and my lessons to do , and my books to read lots of books . 
And you want nothing ? Nothing . 
Yes perhaps If you please , godmother , could you bring me just one more thing ? What sort of thing ! A little boy to play with . 
The old woman looked very sad . 
Just the thing , alas I which I cannot give you . 
My child , I cannot alter your lot in any way , but I can help you to bear it . 
But why do you talk of bearing it ? I have nothing to bear . 
My poor little man ! said the old woman in the very tenderest tone of her tender voice . 
Kiss me ! What is kissing ? asked the wondering child . 
His godmother took him in her arms and embraced him many times . 
By and by he kissed her back again at first awkwardly and shyly , then with all the strength of his warm little heart . 
You are better to cuddle than even my white kitten , I think . 
What is it ? A traveling cloak . 
I don't want a cloak , for I never go out . 
Sometimes nurse hoists me on to the roof , and carries me round by the parapet but that is all . 
I can't walk , you know , as she does . 
The more reason why you should ride and besides , this traveling cloak Hush ! she's coming . 
There sounded outside the room door a heavy step and a grumpy voice , and a rattle of plates and dishes . 
It's my nurse , and she is bringing my dinner but I don't want dinner at all I only want you . 
Will her coming drive you away , godmother ? Perhaps but only for a little while . 
Never mind all the bolts and bars in the world couldn't keep me out . 
I'd fly in at the window , or down through the chimney . 
Only wish for me , and I come . 
Thank you , said Prince Dolor , but almost in a whisper , for he was very uneasy at what might happen next . 
Nobody but his nurse was in the room . 
What a muddle your Royal Highness is sitting in , said she sharply . 
Such a heap of untidy books and what's this rubbish ? knocking a little bundle that lay beside them . 
It was , though he did not know this , his wonderful traveling cloak . 
He did this at once , for fear his nurse should see it , and kept it there all day all night , too . 
Till after his next morning's lessons he had no opportunity of examining his treasure . 
Prince Dolor had never seen anything like it . 
In spite of his disappointment , he examined it curiously spread it out on the door , then arranged it on his shoulders . 
It felt very warm and comfortable but it was so exceedingly shabby the only shabby thing that the Prince had ever seen in his life . 
And what use will it be to me ? said he sadly . 
I have no need of outdoor clothes , as I never go out . 
He did not want her to find it , or to laugh at it or at his godmother as he felt sure she would , if she knew all . 
At last , seeing he really was getting well , she left him to himself which he was most glad of , in spite of his dullness and dreariness . 
There he lay , alone , quite alone . 
I am so tired , so tired and nobody cares for me . 
Nobody ever did care for me , except perhaps my godmother . 
Stop , stop ! cried she , pretending to be smothered . 
I see you have not forgotten my teachings . 
Kissing is a good thing in moderation . 
Only just let me have breath to speak one word . 
A dozen ! he said . 
Well , then , tell me all that has happened to you since I saw you or , rather , since you saw me , which is quite a different thing . 
Nothing has happened nothing ever does happen to me , answered the Prince dolefully . 
And are you very dull , my boy ? So dull that I was just thinking whether I could not jump down to the bottom of the tower , like my white kitten . 
Don't do that , not being a white kitten . 
I wish I were I wish I were anything but what I am . 
And you can't make yourself any different , nor can I do it either . 
You must be content to stay just what you are . 
The little old woman said this very firmly , but gently , too with her arms round his neck and her lips on his forehead . 
Where is your traveling cloak ? Prince Dolor blushed extremely . 
I I put it away in the cupboard I suppose it is there still . 
You have never used it you dislike it ? He hesitated , no wishing to be impolite . 
Don't you think it's just a little old and shabby for a prince ? The old woman laughed long and loud , though very sweetly . 
Prince , indeed ! Why , if all the princes in the world craved for it , they couldn't get it , unless I gave it them . 
She touched his poor little legs . 
These are not like those of other little boys . 
Indeed ! my nurse never told me that . 
But it is time you were told and I tell you , because I love you . 
Though not wholly comprehending , he began dimly to guess what his godmother meant . 
He had never seen any real live boys , but he had seen pictures of them running and jumping which he had admired and tried hard to imitate but always failed . 
His was a separate life , in which he must find out new work and new pleasures for himself . 
He fought against it for a while , and then , quite overcome , turned and sobbed bitterly in his godmother's arms . 
That is right , my Prince ! that is being like a prince . 
, and there is no wheel to put our shoulders to , said the child sadly . 
You little matter of fact goose ! Well for you that you have a godmother called What ? he eagerly asked . 
Stuff and nonsense ! What a funny name ! Some people give it me , but they are not my most intimate friends . 
These call me never mind what , added the old woman , with a soft twinkle in her eyes . 
So as you know me , and know me well , you may give me any name you please it doesn't matter . 
But I am your godmother , child . 
I have few godchildren those I have love me dearly , and find me the greatest blessing in all the world . 
Bring it out of the rubbish cupboard , and shake the dust off it , quick ! said she to Prince Dolor , who hung his head , rather ashamed . 
Spread it out on the floor , and wait till the split closes and the edges turn up like a rim all round . 
It all seemed so exceedingly silly he wondered that a wise old woman like his godmother should talk such nonsense . 
Stuff and nonsense , you mean , said she , answering , to his great alarm , his unspoken thoughts . 
Did I not tell you some people called me by that name ? Never mind it doesn't harm me . 
And she laughed her merry laugh as child like as if she were the Prince's age instead of her own , whatever that might be . 
She certainly was a most extraordinary old woman . 
Believe me or not , it doesn't matter , said she . 
A puff of most pleasant air passing by him . 
and making him feel for the moment quite strong and well , was all the Prince was conscious of . 
His most extraordinary godmother was gone . 
Really now , how rosy your Royal Highness' cheeks have grown ! You seem to have got well already , said the nurse , entering the room . 
I think I have , replied the Prince very gently he felt gently and kindly even to his grim nurse . 
And now let me have my dinner , and go you to your sewing as usual . 
Alas ! it was not there . 
Though he seldom played with them now , he liked just to feel they were there . 
They were all gone and with them the traveling cloak . 
He sat down on the floor , looking at the empty shelves , so beautifully clean and tidy , then burst out sobbing as if his heart would break . 
He never let his nurse hear him cry . 
She only laughed at him , as he felt she would laugh now . 
And it is all my own fault ! he cried . 
I ought to have taken better care of my godmother's gift . 
Oh , godmother , forgive me ! I'll never be so careless again . 
I don't know what the cloak is exactly , but I am sure it is something precious . 
Help me to find it again . 
Oh , don't let it be stolen from me don't , please ! Ha , ha , ha ! laughed a silvery voice . 
Why , that traveling cloak is the one thing in the world which nobody can steal . 
It is of no use to anybody except the owner . 
Open your eyes , my Prince , and see what you shall see . 
His dear old godmother , he thought , and turned eagerly round . 
But no he only beheld , lying in a corner of the room , all dust and cobwebs , his precious traveling cloak . 
Prince Dolor darted toward it , tumbling several times on the way , as he often did tumble , poor boy ! and pick himself up again , never complaining . 
Snatching it to his breast , he hugged and kissed it , cobwebs and all , as if it had been something alive . 
Then he began unrolling it , wondering each minute what would happen . 
What did happen was so curious that I must leave it for another chapter . 
Having said this , I return to Prince Dolor , that little lame boy whom many may think so exceedingly to be pitied . 
We respect , we admire them . 
One can respect and admire even a little child . 
When Prince Dolor had patiently untied all the knots , a remarkable thing happened . 
The cloak began to undo itself . 
The Prince watched it rather anxiously it was such an extraordinary , not to say a frightening , thing . 
And I am not sure but that in this way he showed more real valor than if he had had six pairs of proper legs . 
He said to himself What a goose I am ! As if my dear godmother would ever have given me anything to hurt me . 
But there he sat , steady and silent , waiting for what might happen next . 
And then and then Now I don't expect anybody to believe what I am going to relate , though a good many wise people have believed a good many sillier things . 
The cloak rose , slowly and steadily , at first only a few inches , then gradually higher and higher , till it nearly touched the skylight . 
Prince Dolor's head actually bumped against the glass , or would have done so had he not crouched down , crying Oh , please don't hurt me ! in a most melancholy voice . 
But the minute the window was opened , out it sailed right out into the clear , fresh air , with nothing between it and the cloudless blue . 
Prince Dolor had never felt any such delicious sensation before . 
But to him even the level plain looked beautiful and then there was the glorious arch of the sky , with a little young moon sitting in the west like a baby queen . 
The dews fell damp on his curls he began to shiver . 
Perhaps I had better go home , thought he . 
But how ? For in his excitement the other words which his godmother had told him to use had slipped his memory . 
They were only a little different from the first , but in that slight difference all the importance lay . 
As he repeated his Abracadabra , trying ever so many other syllables after it , the cloak only went faster and faster , skimming on through the dusky , empty air . 
The poor little Prince began to feel frightened . 
Instantly the words came rushing into his head Abracadabra , tum tum ti ! Was that it ? Ah ! yes for the cloak began to turn slowly . 
He reached the skylight , which he found exactly as he had left it , and slipped in , cloak and all , as easily as he had got out . 
Prince ! what can you be thinking of ? You are the silliest boy I ever knew . 
Am I ? said he absently , and never heeding her crossness for his only anxiety was lest she might find out anything . 
She would have been a very clever person to have done so . 
If the nurse had seen it , which she didn't , she would have taken it for a mere bundle of rubbish not worth noticing . 
Shutting the skylight with an angry bang , she brought in the supper and lit the candles with her usual unhappy expression of countenance . 
But Prince Dolor hardly saw it he only saw , hid in the corner where nobody else would see it , his wonderful traveling cloak . 
Poor woman ! he thought , when he paused a minute to listen and look at her with those quiet , happy eyes , so like his mother's . 
So next day he opened his eyes with the sun , and went with a good heart to his lessons . 
They had hitherto been the chief amusement of his dull life now , I am afraid , he found them also a little dull . 
He was accustomed to sit so quietly always that his nurse , though only in the next room , perceived no difference . 
And besides , she might have gone in and out a dozen times , and it would have been just the same she never could have found out his absence . 
No more did Prince Dolor , though he tried to find them out by recalling any pictures he had seen of them . 
But he was too far off and though it was pleasant enough to admire them as brilliant patches of color , still he would have liked to examine them all . 
He was , as a little girl I know once said of a playfellow , a very examining boy . 
I wonder , he thought , whether I could see better through a pair of glasses like those my nurse reads with , and takes such care of . 
How I would take care of them , too , if I only had a pair ! Immediately he felt something queer and hard fixing itself to the bridge of his nose . 
Then , just to rest his eyes , he turned them up to the sky the blue , bright , empty sky , which he had looked at so often and seen nothing . 
Now surely there was something . 
A long , black , wavy line , moving on in the distance , not by chance , as the clouds move apparently , but deliberately , as if it were alive . 
He might have seen it before he almost thought he had but then he could not tell what it was . 
And Prince Dolor blushed when he had said it , and hoped nobody had heard him . 
Yet there they were , making their fearless way through the sky . 
Oh , I wish I were going with you , you lovely creatures ! I'm getting so tired of this dull plain , and the dreary and lonely tower . 
The boy looked after them with envy . 
Then he settled himself down in the center of the cloak , feeling quite sad and lonely . 
I think I'll go home , said he , and repeated his Abracadabra , tum tum ti ! with a rather heavy heart . 
CHAPTER VI The fourth day it happened that the deaf mute paid his accustomed visit , after which Prince Dolor's spirits rose . 
Suppose I was a knight , he said to himself then I should be obliged to ride out and see the world . 
But he kept all these thoughts to himself , and just sat still , devouring his new books till he had come to the end of them all . 
Thus almost all the ordinary delights of boy life had been taken away from , or rather never given to this poor little prince . 
What a lot of things there are that I should like to do ! But first I should like to go and see the world . 
Apparently it was his godmother's plan always to let him try , and try hard , before he gained anything . 
Off we go ! cried he , when the cloak stirred itself with a slight , slow motion , as if waiting his orders . 
Anywhere anywhere , so that I am away from here , and out into the world . 
As he spoke , the cloak , as if seized suddenly with a new idea , bounded forward and went skimming through the air , faster than the very fastest railway train . 
Gee up ! gee up ! cried Prince Dolor in great excitement . 
This is as good as riding a race . 
What does it matter , though ? said he . 
I'm a boy , and boys ought not to mind anything . 
Still , for all his good will , by and by , he began to shiver exceedingly also , he had come away without his dinner , and he grew frightfully hungry . 
Shall I turn back ? meditated he . 
Suppose I say Abracadabra ? Here he stopped , for already the cloak gave an obedient lurch , as if it were expecting to be sent home immediately . 
No I can't I can't go back ! I must go forward and see the world . 
Hold on , cloak , we'll make the best of it . 
It was not meat , nor pudding , but a combination of both , and it served him excellently for both . 
He ate his dinner with the greatest gusto imaginable , till he grew so thirsty he did not know what to do . 
Couldn't I have just one drop of water , if it didn't trouble you too much , kindest of godmothers ? For he really thought this want was beyond her power to supply . 
All the water which supplied Hopeless Tower was pumped up with difficulty from a deep artesian well there were such things known in Nomansland which had been made at the foot of it . 
But around , for miles upon miles , the desolate plain was perfectly dry . 
And above it , high in the air , how could he expect to find a well , or to get even a drop of water ? He forgot one thing the rain . 
Also , as soon as it was empty the rain filled it again , so that he was able to wash his face and hands and refresh himself exceedingly . 
Then the sun came out and dried him in no time . 
The next minute he was sound asleep . 
When he awoke , he found himself floating over a country quite unlike anything he had ever seen before . 
First , there was a river . 
Afterward it went steadily on for a while , like a good grown up person , till it came to another big rock , where it misbehaved itself extremely . 
After that it went along , deep and quiet , but flowing steadily on , till it reached a large lake , into which it slipped and so ended its course . 
All this the boy saw , either with his own naked eye or through his gold spectacles . 
He saw also as in a picture , beautiful but silent , many other things which struck him with wonder , especially a grove of trees . 
and never to have seen trees ! As he floated over these oaks , they seemed to him trunk , branches , and leaves the most curious sight imaginable . 
Yet how wonderful they are every one of them a little different . 
The plan of this world is infinite similarity and yet infinite variety . 
Prince Dolor examined his leaves with the greatest curiosity and also a little caterpillar that he found walking over one of them . 
It amused him for a long time and when a sudden gust of wind blew it overboard , leaves and all , he felt quite disconsolate . 
Still there must be many live creatures in the world besides caterpillars . 
I should like to see a few of them . 
It was made up of cornfields , pasturefields , lanes , hedges , brooks , and ponds . 
Also , in it were what the prince desired to see a quantity of living creatures , wild and tame . 
I have as good as two pairs of eyes , he thought . 
I wonder if my godmother would give me a second pair of ears . 
Scarcely had he spoken than he found lying on his lap the most curious little parcel , all done up in silvery paper . 
There is something which we listen to daily and never notice . 
I mean the sounds of the visible world , animate and inanimate . 
And oh ! if you had seen his face . 
He listened , listened , as if he could never have done listening . 
And he looked and looked , as if he could not gaze enough . 
But , these creatures having four legs , and he only two , the difference did not strike him painfully . 
This creature had only two but they were long , straight , and strong . 
And it had a lithe , active body , and a curly head of black hair set upon its shoulders . 
It was a boy , a shepherd boy , about the Prince's own age but , oh ! so different . 
Not that he was an ugly boy though his face was almost as red as his hands , and his shaggy hair matted like the backs of his own sheep . 
Might he come and play with me ? I would drop down to the ground to him , or fetch him up to me here . 
Oh , how nice it would be if I only had a little boy to play with me . 
But the cloak , usually so obedient to his wishes , disobeyed him now . 
There were evi dently some things which his godmother either could not or would not give . 
The cloak hung stationary , high in air , never attempting to descend . 
The shepherd lad evidently took it for a large bird , and , shading his eyes , looked up at it , making the Prince's heart beat fast . 
The boy turned round , with a long , loud whistle seemingly his usual and only way of expressing his feelings . 
He could not make the thing out exactly it was a rather mysterious affair , but it did not trouble him much he was not an examining boy . 
Hollo ! Let's warm ourselves by a race . 
They started off together , boy and dog barking and shouting , till it was doubtful which made the more noise or ran the faster . 
They did not seem to have anything to run for but as if they did it , both of them , for the mere pleasure of motion . 
And what a pleasure that seemed ! To the dog of course , but scarcely less so to the boy . 
Then the sweet , pale face grew a trifle paler , the lips began to quiver , and the eyes to fill . 
How nice it must be to run like that ! he said softly , thinking that never no , never in this world would he be able to do the same . 
You're no good to me , he said , patting them mournfully . 
You never will be any good to me . 
I wonder why I had you at all . 
I wonder why I was born at all , since I was not to grow up like other boys . 
There is much that we do not know and cannot understand we big folks no more than you little ones . 
We have to accept it all just as you have to accept anything which your parents may tell you , even though you don't as yet see the reason of it . 
You may sometime , if you do exactly as they tell you , and are content to wait . 
You have heard it hundreds of times , my children , and so have I. When I was a child I thought there was nothing so sweet and I think so still . 
Oh , you beautiful , beautiful bird ! cried he I should dearly like to take you in and cuddle you . 
That is , if I could if I dared . 
The little brown creature with its loud heavenly voice almost made him afraid . 
Nevertheless , it also made him happy and he watched and listened so absorbed that he forgot all regret and pain , forgot everything in the world except the little lark . 
But , instead of dropping to the ground , it dropped right into the little boy's breast . 
What a pride , what a delight ! To have something that nobody else had something all his own . 
But when he got in sight of Hopeless Tower a painful thought struck him . 
And , though the merry lark immediately broke into the loudest carol , as if saying derisively that he defied anybody to eat him , still , Prince Dolor was very uneasy . 
In another minute he had made up his mind . 
No , my bird , nothing so dreadful shall happen to you if I can help it I would rather do without you altogether . 
Fly away , my darling , my beautiful ! Good by , my merry , merry bird . 
Opening his two caressing hands , in which , as if for protection , he had folded it , he let the lark go . 
It was only a bird . 
The dear little lark ! it had not flown away , after all . 
Whenever he listened for a moment , he heard it singing still . 
He went to sleep as happy as a king . 
CHAPTER VII Happy as a king . 
How far kings are happy I cannot say , no more than could Prince Dolor , though he had once been a king himself . 
Sometimes he speculated about himself , whether he had had a father and mother as other little boys had what they had been like , and why he had never seen them . 
Then , in his history lessons , of course he read about kings and princes , and the governments of different countries , and the events that happened there . 
He had plenty of time for thinking . 
After his last journey in the traveling cloak , the journey which had given him so much pain , his desire to see the world somehow faded away . 
All during the winter so far as there ever was any difference between summer and winter in Hopeless Tower the little bird cheered and amused him . 
He scarcely needed anything more not even his traveling cloak , which lay bundled up unnoticed in a corner , tied up in its innumerable knots . 
Nor did his godmother come near him . 
It seemed as if she had given these treasures and left him alone to use them or lose them , apply them or misapply them , according to his own choice . 
That is all we can do with children when they grow into big children old enough to distinguish between right and wrong , and too old to be forced to do either . 
Prince Dolor was now quite a big boy . 
Not tall alas ! he never could be that , with his poor little shrunken legs , which were of no use , only an encumbrance . 
But he was stout and strong , with great sturdy shoulders , and muscular arms , upon which he could swing himself about almost like a monkey . 
As if in compensation for his useless lower limbs , Nature had given to these extra strength and activity . 
His face , too , was very handsome thinner , firmer , more manly but still the sweet face of his childhood his mother's own face . 
How his mother would have liked to look at him ! Perhaps she did who knows ? The boy was not a stupid boy either . 
He could learn almost anything he chose and he did choose , which was more than half the battle . 
But , thought he , men work , and it must be so grand to be a man a prince too and I fancy princes work harder than anybody except kings . 
The princes I read about generally turn into kings . 
So long a time had passed by since her crime if it were a crime and her sentence , that she now seldom thought of either . 
Even her punishment to be shut up for life in Hopeless Tower she had gradually got used to . 
Something might happen who could tell ? Changes might occur . 
Possibly a crown would even yet be set upon those pretty , fair curls which she began to think prettier than ever when she saw the imaginary coronet upon them . 
A mere quibble a mean , miserable quibble . 
But then she was a miserable woman , more to be pitied than scorned . 
His face grew pale , and then flushed all over he held himself erect . 
Lame as he was , anybody could see he was born to be a king . 
Hush ! said the nurse , as he was beginning to speak . 
And then , terribly frightened all the while , people who have done wrong always are frightened , she wrote down in a few hurried sentences his history . 
How his parents had died his uncle had usurped his throne , and sent him to end his days in this lonely tower . 
I , too , added she , bursting into tears . 
Unless , indeed , you could get out into the world , and fight for your rights like a man . 
And fight for me also , my Prince , that I may not die in this desolate place . 
Poor old nurse ! said the boy compassion ately . 
He scarcely slept that night , and even though he heard his little lark singing in the sunrise , he barely listened to it . 
Things more serious and important had taken possession of his mind . 
They might only laugh at me poor helpless creature that I am but still I might show them I could do something . 
At any rate , I might go and see if there were anything for me to do . 
But I must now learn to be independent , thought he . 
So was Prince Dolor or felt as if he were . 
He jumped into the middle of it , said his charm , and was out through the skylight immediately . 
Good by , pretty lark ! he shouted , as he passed it on the wing , still warbling its carol to the newly risen sun . 
You have been my pleasure , my delight now I must go and work . 
Sing to old nurse till I come back again . 
Perhaps she'll hear you perhaps she won't but it will do her good all the same . 
But this journey was not for pleasure as before . 
He was not a baby now , to do nothing but play big boys do not always play . 
Nor men neither they work . 
Thus much Prince Dolor knew though very little more . 
But he crouched down , silent and quiet what was the use of making a fuss ? and , wrapping himself up in his bear skin , waited for what was to happen . 
After some time he heard a murmur in the distance , increasing more and more till it grew like the hum of a gigantic hive of bees . 
And all this wretchedness is close behind the grandeur like the two sides of the leaf of a book . 
An awful sight is a large city , seen any how from any where . 
Do you ? Prince Dolor had need to be a king that is , a boy with a kingly nature to be able to stand such a sight without being utterly overcome . 
But he was very much bewildered as bewildered as a blind person who is suddenly made to see . 
He gazed down on the city below him , and then put his hand over his eyes . 
I can't bear to look at it , it is so beautiful so dreadful . 
And I don't understand it not one bit . 
There is nobody to tell me about it . 
I wish I had somebody to speak to . 
Do you ? Then pray speak to me . 
I was always considered good at conversation . 
The voice that squeaked out this reply was an excellent imitation of the human one , though it came only from a bird . 
I haven't the honor of your acquaintance , sir , said the boy politely . 
Ma'am , if you please . 
I am a mother bird , and my name is Mag , and I shall be happy to tell you everything you want to know . 
For I know a great deal and I enjoy talking . 
My family is of great antiquity we have built in this palace for hundreds that is to say , dozens of years . 
I am intimately acquainted with the king , the queen , and the little princes and princesses also the maids of honor , and all the inhabitants of the city . 
I talk a good deal , but I always talk sense , and I daresay I should be ex ceedingly useful to a poor little ignorant boy like you . 
I am a prince , said the other gently . 
And I am a magpie . 
You will find me a most respectable bird . 
I have no doubt of it , was the polite answer though he thought in his own mind that Mag must have a very good opinion of herself . 
But she was a lady and a stranger , so of course he was civil to her . 
Mag said so and of course she knew . 
Nevertheless , there were a few things in it which surprised Prince Dolor and , as he had said , he could not understand them at all . 
Can't the world be made a little more level ? I would try to do it if I were a king . 
But you're not the king only a little goose of a boy , returned the magpie loftily . 
And I'm here not to explain things , only to show them . 
Shall I show you the royal palace ? It was a very magnificent palace . 
It had terraces and gardens , battlements and towers . 
It extended over acres of ground , and had in it rooms enough to accommodate half the city . 
Its windows looked in all directions , but none of them had any particular view except a small one , high up toward the roof , which looked out on the Beautiful Mountains . 
But since the queen died there it had been closed , boarded up , indeed , the magpie said . 
It was so little and inconvenient that nobody cared to live in it . 
Besides , the lower apartments , which had no view , were magnificent worthy of being inhabited by the king . 
I should like to see the king , said Prince Dolor . 
Always doing right , and never wrong The king can do no wrong was a law laid down in olden times . 
This , probably , was what Prince Dolor expected to see . 
And what did he see ? But I must tell you how he saw it . 
Ah , said the magpie , no levee to day . 
The King is ill , though his Majesty does not wish it to be generally known it would be so very inconvenient . 
He can't see you , but perhaps you might like to go and take a look at him in a way I often do ? It is so very amusing . 
Amusing , indeed ! The prince was just now too much excited to talk much . 
He is a king , and that's enough . 
For the rest nobody knows . 
Now look in , my Prince . 
Make haste , for I must soon shut it up again . 
Isn't it rude ? won't they think us intruding ? Oh , dear no ! there's a hole like this in every palace dozens of holes , indeed . 
Everybody knows it , but nobody speaks of it . 
Where is the King ? asked the puzzled boy . 
There , said Mag , pointing with one wrinkled claw to a magnificent bed , large enough to contain six people . 
A sight not ugly nor frightening , only solemn and quiet . 
And so very silent two little flies buzzing about the curtains of the bed being the only audible sound . 
Is that the King ? whispered Prince Dolor . 
Yes , replied the bird . 
Many times the boy had felt as if , king as he was , he should like to strike him , this great , strong , wicked man . 
What is the matter with him ? asked the Prince . 
He is dead , said the Magpie , with a croak . 
No , there was not the least use in being angry with him now . 
On the contrary , the Prince felt almost sorry for him , except that he looked so peaceful with all his cares at rest . 
And this was being dead ? So even kings died ? Well , well , he hadn't an easy life , folk say , for all his grandeur . 
Perhaps he is glad it is over . 
Good by , your Majesty . 
With another cheerful tap of her beak , Mistress Mag shut down the little door in the tiles , and Prince Dolor's first and last sight of his uncle was ended . 
He sat in the center of his traveling cloak , silent and thoughtful . 
What shall we do now ? said the magpie . 
There's nothing much more to be done with his majesty , except a fine funeral , which I shall certainly go and see . 
He interested the world exceedingly when he was alive , and he ought to do it now he's dead just once more . 
There'll be such a row in the city presently . 
Suppose we float up again and see it all at a safe distance , though . 
It will be such fun ! What will be fun ? A revolution . 
Whether anybody except a magpie would have called it fun I don't know , but it certainly was a remarkable scene . 
The murmur now and then rose into a shout , and the shout into a roar . 
When Prince Dolor , quietly floating in upper air , caught the sound of their different and opposite cries , it seemed to him as if the whole city had gone mad together . 
For me , I don't like changes , unless pretty sure that they are for good . 
Prince Dolor saw it all . 
Things happened so fast one after another that they quite confused his faculties . 
Good by , then , said the magpie , flapping her wings . 
You've had enough , I suppose , of seeing the world ? Oh , I have I have ! cried the prince , with a shudder . 
That is , till next time . 
All right , your royal highness . 
You don't know me , but I know you . 
We may meet again some time . 
But the minute afterward she became only a bird , and with a screech and a chatter , spread her wings and flew away . 
Generally his nurse rather worried him by breaking his slumbers , coming in and setting things to rights , as she called it . 
It was striking ten now , and still no nurse was to be seen . 
Very uncomfortable he felt , of course and just a little frightened . 
Especially when he began to call and call again , but nobody answered . 
Nurse , dear nurse , please come back ! he called out . 
Come back , and I will be the best boy in all the land . 
And when she did not come back , and nothing but silence answered his lamentable call , he very nearly began to cry . 
This won't do , he said at last , dashing the tears from his eyes . 
It's just like a baby , and I'm a big boy shall be a man some day . 
What has happened , I wonder ? I'll go and see . 
He sprang out of bed , not to his feet , alas ! but to his poor little weak knees , and crawled on them from room to room . 
He might live like a prince , as the proverb is , for several days . 
But the place was entirely forsaken there was evidently not a creature but himself in the solitary tower . 
A great fear came upon the poor boy . 
Lonely as his life had been , he had never known what it was to be absolutely alone . 
A kind of despair seized him no violent anger or terror , but a sort of patient desolation . 
This feeling , however , did not last long , for he was young and strong , and , I said before , by nature a very courageous boy . 
I wonder is there a remedy now , and could I find it ? cried the Prince , jumping up and looking out of the window . 
He only saw the broad , bleak , sunshiny plain that is , at first . 
He has come and gone , taking nurse away with him . 
Poor nurse ! how glad she would be to go ! That was Prince Dolor's first thought . 
His second wasn't it natural ? was a passionate indignation at her cruelty at the cruelty of all the world toward him , a poor little helpless boy . 
Then he determined , forsaken as he was , to try and hold on to the last , and not to die as long as he could possibly help it . 
So , of course , she had gone . 
I hope she'll enjoy it , miserable woman if they don't cut off her head too . 
Possibly she did not mean to be cruel . 
I won't judge her , said he . 
And afterward he was very glad that he had so determined . 
For the second time he tried to dress himself , and then to do everything he could for himself even to sweeping up the hearth and putting on more coals . 
It's a funny thing for a prince to have to do , said he , laughing . 
But my godmother once said princes need never mind doing anything . 
And then he thought a little of his godmother . 
But he seemed to have seen and learned so much within the last few days that he scarcely felt like a boy , but a man until he went to bed at night . 
Not a lesson to learn but no ! I always liked learning my lessons . 
For I was a lonely little thing , who liked quietness as many children do which other children , and sometimes grown up people even , cannot understand . 
And so I can understand Prince Dolor . 
After his first despair , he was not merely comfortable , but actually happy in his solitude , doing everything for himself , and enjoying everything by himself until bedtime . 
Then he did not like it at all . 
No more , I suppose , than other children would have liked my im aginary house in a tree when they had had sufficient of their own company . 
But the Prince had to bear it and he did bear it , like a prince for fully five days . 
All that time he got up in the morning and went to bed at night without having spoken to a creature , or , indeed , heard a single sound . 
A very strange existence it was , those five lonely days . 
He never entirely forgot it . 
On the sixth day Prince Dolor had a strange composure in his look , but he was very grave and thin and white . 
He made up his mind to die . 
Not that he wished to die on the contrary , there was a great deal that he wished to live to do but if he must die , he must . 
And there he sat very calm and patient , like a king in his castle , waiting for the end . 
Still , I wish I had done something first something worth doing , that somebody might remember me by , thought he . 
A tear came into the little fellow's eyes , and he listened intently through the dead silence for some hopeful sound . 
Was there one ? was it his little lark , whom he had almost forgotten ? No , nothing half so sweet . 
But it really was something something which came nearer and nearer , so that there was no mistaking it . 
It was the sound of a trumpet , one of the great silver trumpets so admired in Nomansland . 
Not pleasant music , but very bold , grand , and inspiring . 
As he listened to it the boy seemed to recall many things which had slipped his memory for years , and to nerve himself for whatever might be going to happen . 
What had happened was this . 
The poor condemned woman had not been such a wicked woman after all . 
Perhaps her courage was not wholly disinterested , but she had done a very heroic thing . 
It was a bold stroke , but it succeeded . 
Hurrah for Prince Dolor ! Let Prince Dolor be our sovereign ! rang from end to end of the kingdom . 
Nobody remembered his lameness or , if they did , they passed it over as a matter of no consequence . 
Yes , he said , if you desire it , I will be your king . 
And I will do my best to make my people happy . 
Then there arose , from inside and outside the tower , such a shout as never yet was heard across the lonely plain . 
Prince Dolor shrank a little from the deafening sound . 
How shall I be able to rule all this great people ? You forget , my lords , that I am only a little boy still . 
Not so very little , was the respectful answer . 
We have searched in the records , and found that your Royal Highness your Majesty , I mean is fifteen years old . 
Am I ? said Prince Dolor and his first thought was a thoroughly childish pleasure that he should now have a birthday , with a whole nation to keep it . 
Then he remembered that his childish days were done . 
He was a monarch now . 
Even his nurse , to whom , the moment he saw her , he had held out his hand , kissed it reverently , and called him ceremoniously his Majesty the King . 
He could take nothing with him indeed , he soon saw that , however politely they spoke , they would not allow him to take anything . 
If he was to be their king , he must give up his old life forever . 
It will be a new life in a new world , said he to himself but I'll remember the old things still . 
And , oh ! if before I go I could but once see my dear old godmother . 
Sliding down it , as if she had been made of air , came the little old woman in gray . 
So beautiful looked she old as she was that Prince Dolor was at first quite startled by the apparition . 
Then he held out his arms in eager delight . 
Oh , godmother , you have not forsaken me ! Not at all , my son . 
You may not have seen me , but I have seen you many a time . 
How ? Oh , never mind . 
I can turn into anything I please , you know . 
Ha ! laughed the prince , a new light breaking in upon him as he caught the infection sic of her tone , lively and mischievous . 
Ha ! ha ! a lark , for instance ? Or a magpie , answered she , with a capital imitation of Mistress Mag's croaky voice . 
They clasped one another in a close embrace . 
Suddenly Prince Dolor looked very anxious . 
You will not leave me now that I am a king ? Otherwise I had rather not be a king at all . 
Promise never to forsake me ! The little old woman laughed gayly . 
Forsake you ? that is impossible . 
But it is just possible you may forsake me . 
Your mother never did , and she was a queen . 
The sweetest queen in all the world was the Lady Dolorez . 
Tell me about her , said the boy eagerly . 
As I get older I think I can understand more . 
You couldn't hear me for the trumpets and the shouting . 
But when you are come to the palace , ask for a long closed upper room , which looks out upon the Beautiful Mountains open it and take it for your own . 
Whenever you go there you will always find me , and we will talk together about all sorts of things . 
Now I must go , said she , as the trumpets blared louder and louder , and the shouts of the people showed that they would not endure any delay . 
Good by , good by ! Open the window and out I fly . 
Prince Dolor repeated gayly the musical rhyme but all the while tried to hold his godmother fast . 
So Prince Dolor quitted his tower which he had entered so mournfully and ignominiously as a little helpless baby carried in the deaf mute's arms quitted it as the great King of Nomansland . 
And I'm tired , children , tired as grown up people sometimes are , though not always with play . 
I have related as well as I could the history of Prince Dolor , but with the history of Nomansland I am as yet unacquainted . 
If anybody knows it , perhaps he or she will kindly write it all down in another book . 
However , of this I am sure , that Prince Dolor made an excellent king . 
Also , she helped him out of any difficulty which now and then occurred for there never was such a wise old woman . 
Lean upon the wisdom of others till you have gained your own . 
He learned how to take advice before attempting to give it , to obey before he could righteously command . 
He assembled round him all the good and wise of his kingdom laid all its affairs before them , and was guided by their opinions until he had maturely formed his own . 
Only now it was less for his own pleasure and amusement than to see something or investigate something for the good of the country . 
But he prized his godmother's gift as dearly as ever . 
It was a comfort to him in all his vexations , an enhancement of all his joys . 
It made him almost forget his lameness which was never cured . 
However , the cruel things which had been once foreboded of him did not happen . 
His misfortune was not such a heavy one , after all . 
It proved to be of much less inconvenience , even to himself , than had been feared . 
Therefore other people grew to love him so well that I think hundreds of his subjects might have been found who were almost ready to die for their poor lame king . 
He never gave them a queen . 
When they implored him to choose one , he replied that his country was his bride , and he desired no other . 
His twenty four other godfathers and godmothers , or as many of them as were still alive , crowded round him as soon as he ascended the throne . 
He did a good many things , however , unlike most men and most kings , which a little astonished his subjects . 
First , he pardoned the condemned woman who had been his nurse , and ordained that from henceforth there should be no such thing as the punishment of death in Nomansland . 
Another surprise he shortly afterward gave the nation . 
He recalled his uncle's family , who had fled away in terror to another country , and restored them to all their honors in their own . 
, and had him educated in the royal palace , as the heir to the throne . 
One cannot make one's self , but one can sometimes help a little in the making of somebody else . 
He sent for her to visit him once a year , and treated her with great honor until she died . 
But as she was so grand a personage now , any little faults she had did not show . 
Thus King Dolor's reign passed year after year , long and prosperous . 
Whether he were happy as happy as a king is a question no human being can decide . 
They were too far off , and the city lay so low . 
But there they were , all the time . 
Everybody marveled , but nobody opposed him . 
He lifted up his thin , slender hand , and there came a silence over the vast crowd immediately . 
My people , I am tired I want to rest . 
I have had a long reign , and done much work at least , as much as I was able to do . 
Many might have done it better than I but none with a better will . 
Now I leave it to others I am tired , very tired . 
There arose a murmur of content or discontent none could well tell then it died down again , and the assembly listened silently once more . 
I am not anxious about you , my people my children , continued the King . 
You are prosperous and at peace . 
I leave you in good hands . 
But he seemed as if he heard them not . 
Yes , I must go . 
It is time for me to go . 
Remember me sometimes , my people , for I have loved you well . 
And I am going a long way , and I do not think I shall come back any more . 
He drew a little bundle out of his breast pocket a bundle that nobody had ever seen before . 
It was small and shabby looking , and tied up with many knots , which untied themselves in an instant . 
With a joyful countenance , he muttered over it a few half intelligible words . 
And after him sprang a bird a dear little lark , rising from whence no one could say , since larks do not usually build their nests in the pavement of city squares . 
But there it was , a real lark , singing far over their heads , louder and clearer and more joyful as it vanished further into the blue sky . 
Shading their eyes , and straining their ears , the astonished people stood until the whole vision disappeared like a speck in the clouds the rosy clouds that overhung the Beautiful Mountains . 
King Dolor was never again beheld or heard of in his own country . 
Whither he went , or who went with him , it is impossible to say . 
But I myself believe that his godmother took him on his traveling cloak to the Beautiful Mountains . 
What he did there , or where he is now , who can tell ? I cannot . 
But one thing I am quite sure of , that , wherever he is , he is perfectly happy . 
The king was quite sensible of the evil disposition of his son , but the queen in her excessive fondness saw no fault whatever in her dear Furibon , as he was named . 
The surest way to win her favor was to praise Furibon for charms he did not possess . 
When he came of age to have a governor , the king made choice of a prince who had an ancient right to the crown , but was not able to support it . 
This prince had a son , named Leander , handsome , accomplished , amiable in every respect the opposite of Prince Furibon . 
The two were frequently together , which only made the deformed prince more repulsive . 
As it was , the affair produced a quarrel , which ended in Leander's being sent to a far away castle belonging to his father . 
One day as he was walking in the garden , finding the heat increase , he retired into a shady grove and began to play upon the flute to amuse himself . 
But the adder , looking steadfastly in his face , seemed to beg his pardon . 
In the meantime all the court ladies were extremely troubled at his absence , and he was the subject of all their discourse . 
To which purpose she advised Furibon to go a hunting with some of his confidants , and contrive it so that Leander should make one of the party . 
Then , said she , you may find some way to punish him for pleasing everybody . 
Furibon understood her , and accordingly went a hunting and Leander , when he heard the horns and the hounds , mounted his horse and rode to see who it was . 
But he was surprised to meet the prince so unexpectedly he alighted immediately and saluted him with respect and Furibon received him more graciously than usual and bade follow him . 
When he recovered , Leander presented him his horse to remount . 
They accordingly surrounded Leander , who , setting his back to a tree , behaved with so much bravery that he laid them all dead at his feet . 
Furibon , believing him by this time slain , rode eagerly up to the spot . 
When Leander saw him he advanced to meet him . 
Sir , said he , if it was by your order that these assassins came to kill me , I am sorry I made any defense . 
You are an insolent villain ! replied Furibon , and if ever you come into my presence again , you shall surely die . 
Her habit was of purple satin , embroidered with pearls and diamonds she advanced toward him with a gracious smile . 
Young prince , said she , you find no longer your pet snake , but me , the fairy Gentilla , ready to requite your generosity . 
For know that we fairies live a hundred years in flourishing youth , without diseases , without trouble or pain and this term being expired , we become snakes for eight days . 
During that time it is not in our power to prevent any misfortune that may befall us and if we happen to be killed , we never revive again . 
But these eight days being expired , we resume our usual form and recover our beauty , our power , and our riches . 
The young prince , who had never conversed with a fairy till now , was so surprised that it was a long time before he could speak . 
Gentilla thereupon stroking his face three times , Be a spirit , said she and then , embracing him , she gave him a little red cap with a plume of feathers . 
When you put on this cap you shall be invisible but when you take it off you shall again become visible . 
Then , without staying to receive his thanks , she wished him success in his travels and disappeared . 
But when he came , he showed so much courage and resolution that Furibon ran to the queen's chamber and prayed her to order him to be seized . 
The queen , who was extremely diligent in everything that her son desired , went immediately to the king . 
But when they came running toward him , thinking to have seized him , he was not to be seen he had slipped behind Furibon , who was in a bad condition already . 
Yet he seemed to be both handsome and young his garments had been magnificent , but he had torn them all to tatters . 
The prince , moved with compassion , made toward him , and mildly accosted him . 
Sir , said he , your condition appears so deplorable that I must ask the cause of your sorrow , assuring you of every assistance in my power . 
Does she love you , then ? asked Leander . 
I flatter myself so , answered the young man . 
Where is she ? continued Leander . 
In the castle at the end of this forest , replied the lover . 
Very well , said Leander stay you here till I come again , and in a little while I will bring you good news . 
He then put on his little red cap and wished himself in the castle . 
Leander now became invisible , and placed himself in a corner of the room . 
The woman , frightened to hear such a terrible sentence pronounced upon her , and yet not know from whence it came , gave a loud shriek and dropped upon the floor . 
Her husband laughed at her and called her a fool . 
But the invisible Leander accosting the man , threatened him in the same way , which frightened him so terribly that he also insisted on the marriage being broken off . 
The real lover soon appeared , and he and his fair mistress fell joyfully into one another's arms , the parents consenting to their union . 
Leander , assuming his own shape , appeared at the hall door , as if he were a stranger drawn thither by the report of this extraordinary wedding . 
Two of her brothers led her by each hand , and her mother followed her with a great crowd of men and women . 
They looked about , but could not conceive from whence these terrible menaces came . 
The multitude fled , the vestals ran away , and Leander was left alone with the victim immediately he pulled off his red cap and asked her wherein he might serve her . 
She answered him that there was a certain gentleman whom she would be glad to marry , but that he wanted an estate . 
Leander then shook his rose so long that he supplied them with ten millions after which they were married and lived happily together . 
But his last adventure was the most agreeable . 
Entering into a wide forest , he heard lamentable cries . 
One of them stayed to take care of the young lady , while the three others went after Gris de line , who gave them a great deal of unwelcome exercise . 
Meantime the young lady continued her cries and complaints . 
He then went to the second , and taking him by both arms , bound him in the same manner to another tree . 
In the meantime Abricotina made the best of her good fortune and betook herself to her heels , not knowing which way she went . 
And now Leander only wanted to overtake Abricotina for he thought her so handsome that he wished to see her again . 
He found her leaning against a tree . 
When she saw Gris de line coming toward her , How lucky am I ! cried she this pretty little horse will carry me to the palace of pleasure . 
Oh , how great was Abricotina's fear to feel herself fast embraced , and yet see nobody ! She durst not stir , and shut her eyes for fear of seeing a spirit . 
But Leander took off his little cap . 
Surely , replied Leander , the danger you have been in has disturbed you and cast a mist before your eyes . 
Abricotina would not seem to doubt him , though she was otherwise extremely sensible . 
Accept , noble prince , my best thanks for your valor , which I shall never forget . 
Leander said how happy he was to have served her , and asked if he could not obtain admission into the island . 
Abricotina assured him this was impossible , and therefore he had better forget all about it . 
While they were thus conversing , they came to the bank of a large river . 
Abricotina alighted with a nimble jump from the horse . 
Farewell , sir , said she to the prince , making a profound reverence I wish you every happiness . 
And I , said Leander , wish that I may now and then have a small share in your remembrance . 
Abricotina did not deceive me , said Leander to himself they have banished from hence the very idea of men now let us see what they have lost by it . 
He viewed a vast number of these apartments , some full of china , no less fine than curious others lined with porcelain , so delicate that the walls were quite transparent . 
Coral , jasper , agates , and cornelians adorned the rooms of state , and the presence chamber was one entire mirror . 
The throne was one great pearl , hollowed like a shell the princess sat , surrounded by her maidens , none of whom could compare with herself . 
In her was all the innocent sweetness of youth , joined to the dignity of maturity in truth , she was perfection and so thought the invisible Leander . 
Not seeing Abricotina , she asked where she was . 
Upon that , Leander , being very desirous to speak , assumed the tone of a parrot , for there were many in the room , and addressed himself invisibly to the princess . 
Most charming princess , said he , Abricotina will return immediately . 
She was in great danger of being carried away from this place but for a young prince who rescued her . 
The princess was surprised at the parrot , his answer was so extremely pertinent . 
You are very rude , little parrot , said the princess and Abricotina , when she comes , shall chastise you for it . 
In truth , pretty parrot , cried the princess , it is a pity you are not every day so diverting I should love you dearly . 
Ah ! if prattling will please you , princess , replied Leander , I will prate from morning till night . 
But , continued the princess , how shall I be sure my parrot is not a sorcerer ? He is more in love than any sorcerer can be , replied the prince . 
Leander observed everything , and continued to chatter as he had begun . 
Abricotina is ungrateful , madam , said he that poor stranger will die for grief if he sees you not . 
Leander was overjoyed to find that Abricotina's and the parrot's discourse had made such an impression on the princess . 
He looked upon her with pleasure and delight . 
Leander had traveled a journey long enough to give him a good appetite , which made him draw near the table , where the very smell of such viands was agreeable and refreshing . 
The princess had a curious tabby cat , for which she had a great kindness . 
He was served on a golden plate with a laced napkin before him and the plate being supplied with meat , Bluet sat with the solemn importance of an alderman . 
The whole court said no act sic ever ate with a better appetite . 
The princess observing it , Bring that fricassee and that tart to poor Bluet , said she see how he cries to have them . 
Leander laughed to himself at the pleasantness of this adventure but he was very thirsty , not being accustomed to make such large meals without drinking . 
The princess now retired into her boudoir , ordering Abricotina to follow her and make fast the door but they could not keep out Leander , who was there as soon as they . 
The princess sighed and was silent for a time then resuming her speech I am glad , said she , thou didst not bring him with thee . 
Abricotina durst make no reply and the princess , having waited her answer for some time , asked her whether she had anything to say . 
Yet , for all that , said the princess , I could wish my picture were in the hands of this same stranger . 
Leander heard all this discourse , and lost not a tittle of what she said some of her expressions gave him hope , others absolutely destroyed it . 
The princess presently asked Abricotina whether she had seen anything extraordinary during her short travels . 
I wish I had one of them , said the princess but if they are so nimble as you say they are , it is impossible to catch one . 
Leander , who passed through the same forest , knew what Abricotina meant , and presently wished himself in the place . 
He taught six green monkeys to draw it they were harnessed with fine traces of flame colored morocco leather . 
He went to another place , where he met with two monkeys of merit , the most pleasant of which was called Briscambril , the other Pierceforest both very spruce and well educated . 
The country monkeys began to show a thousand tricks , which far surpassed those of Briscambril and Pierceforest . 
To say the truth , Leander conducted the whole machine . 
The princess' surprise may be easily imagined . 
Moreover , Briscambril made a sign for Pierceforest to come and dance with him . 
The most celebrated dancers were not to be compared with them in activity . 
Leander , satisfied with having seen the delight the princess had taken in beholding the monkeys , thought of nothing now but to get a little repose , which he greatly wanted . 
Having made fast the door , he composed himself to sleep . 
Next day he rose very early , and looking about on every side , he spied a painter's pallet , with colors ready prepared and pencils . 
seated himself before a mirror and drew his own picture first then , in an oval , that of the princess . 
He had painted himself upon one knee , holding the princess' picture in one hand , and in the other a label with this inscription , She is better in my heart . 
She persuaded herself that it was Abricotina's doing and all she desired to know was whether the portrait was real or imaginary . 
Rising in haste , she called Abricotina , while the invisible Leander , with his little red cap , slipped into the cabinet , impatient to know what passed . 
The princess bade Abricotina look upon the picture and tell her what she thought of it . 
After she had viewed it , I protest ! said she , 'tis the picture of that generous stranger to whom I am indebted for my life . 
Yes , yes , I am sure it is he his very features , shape , and hair . 
Thou pretendest surprise , said the princess , but I know it was thou thyself who put it there . 
Who ! I , madam ? replied Abricotina . 
I protest I never saw the picture before in my life . 
How I tremble for fear , madam ! said Abricotina . 
Was it not rather some lover ? And therefore , if you will take my advice , let us burn it immediately . 
'Twere a pity to burn it , cried the princess , sighing a finer piece , methinks , cannot adorn my cabinet . 
And saying these words , she cast her eyes upon it . 
But Abricotina continued obstinate in her opinion that it ought to be burned , as a thing that could not come there but by the power of magic . 
Abricotina ran away immediately for some fire , while the princess went to look out at the window . 
Leander , unwilling to let his performance be burned , took this opportunity to convey it away without being perceived . 
He had hardly quitted the cabinet , when the princess turned about to look once more upon that enchanting picture , which had so delighted her . 
The princess had a universal taste for amusement . 
One day , she was saying to her attend ants that it would give her great pleasure to know how the ladies were dressed in all the courts of the universe . 
There needed no more words to send Leander all over the world . 
He wished himself in China , where he bought the richest stuffs he could lay his hands on , and got patterns of all the court fashions . 
They were all dressed differently , and as magnificent as could be , and Leander placed them all in the princess' closet . 
When she entered the grotto , she made a sign that nobody should follow her , so that her young damsels dispersed themselves into the neighboring walks . 
The princess threw herself upon a bank of green turf , sighed , wept , and even talked , but so softly that Leander could not hear what she said . 
He had put his red cap on , that she might not see him at first but having taken it off , she beheld him standing on the pedestal . 
At first she took him for a real statue , for he observed exactly the attitude in which he had placed himself , without moving so much as a finger . 
She beheld with a kind of pleasure intermixed with fear , but pleasure soon dispelled her fear , and she continued to view the pleasing figure , which so exactly resembled life . 
It was a long time before she durst speak , and her spirits were in a confused agitation between fear and hope . 
She was afraid of the spirit , but loved the figure of the unknown . 
For , thought he , if I again affright the object I adore and make her fear me , she will not love me . 
This consideration caused him to keep silence . 
But Abricotina found the fairy in an angry humor . 
Nothing that my daughter does , said she , escapes my knowledge . 
The Prince Leander is now in her palace he loves her , and she has a tenderness for him . 
All my cares and precepts have not been able to guard her from the tyranny of love , and she is now under its fatal dominion . 
Abricotina returned with these ill tidings , whereat the princess was almost distracted and this was soon perceived by Leander , who was near her , though she did not see him . 
He beheld her grief with the greatest pain . 
Thereupon , he dressed himself like an Amazon , and wished himself in the forest , to catch his horse . 
Immediately the little fellow put on his royal robes , and having placed himself upon his throne , he looked like a great toad counterfeiting a king . 
He told Leander , therefore , that he would have thirty chambers of gold , all full to the ceiling . 
Leander , being conducted into the chambers , took his rose and shook it , till every room was filled with all sorts of coin . 
Immediately Leander put on his little red cap and disappeared . 
Suddenly she beheld a head hanging in the air , with nobody to hold it . 
Abricotina , knowing Leander's voice , cried I protest , madam , the invisible person who speaks is the very stranger that rescued me . 
The princess seemed astonished , but yet pleased . 
Oh , said she , if it be true that the invisible and the stranger are the same person , I confess I shall be glad to make him my acknowledgments . 
As soon as Leander appeared there in his usual habit , everybody knew him all the officers and soldiers surrounded him , uttering the loudest acclamations of joy . 
This done he returned to his princess , ordering his army to march back into his kingdom . 
The princess was gone to bed . 
She took a full view of him , and was convinced that he was the person whose picture she had in her diamond box . 
While she was thus occupied , her mother , the fairy entered with such a noise that Leander started out of his sleep . 
But how deeply was he afflicted to behold his beloved princess in the most deplorable condition ! Her mother dragged her by the hair and loaded her with a thousand bitter reproaches . 
He ran to her , threw himself at her feet , and besought her to have pity upon a young prince who would never change in his affection for her daughter . 
The princess , encouraged , also embraced her mother's knees , and declared that without Leander she should never be happy . 
Happy ! cried the fairy you know not the miseries of love nor the treacheries of which lovers are capable . 
Pardon , then , this lovely princess consent to her nuptials with this young prince . 
Charming Gentilla , cried the fairy , I consent to whatever you desire . 
Come , my dear children , and receive my love . 
So saying , she embraced them both . 
Abricotina , just then entering , cast her eyes upon Leander she knew him again , and saw he was perfectly happy , at which she , too , was quite satisfied . 
Prince , condescendingly said the fairy mother , I will remove the Island of Calm Delights into your own kingdom , live with you myself , and do you great services . 
This short compliment pleased the fairy exceedingly , for she belonged to those ancient days when people used to stand a whole day upon one leg complimenting one another . 
The nuptials were performed in a most splendid manner , and the young prince and princess lived together happily many years , beloved by all around them . 
PRINCE CHERRY PRINCE CHERRY LONG ago there lived a monarch , who was such a very , honest man that his subjects entitled him the Good King . 
One day , when he was out hunting , a little white rabbit , which had been half killed by his hounds , leaped right into his majesty's arms . 
Said he , caressing it This poor creature has put itself under my protection , and I will allow no one to injure it . 
The same night , when he was alone in his chamber , there appeared to him a beautiful lady . 
She was dressed neither in gold , nor silver , nor brocade but her flowing robes were white as snow , and she wore a garland of white roses on her head . 
The Good King was greatly astonished at the sight for his door was locked , and he wondered how so dazzling a lady could possibly enter but she soon removed his doubts . 
I am the fairy Candide , said she , with a smiling and gracious air . 
You saved me and now I know that those who are merciful to dum beasts will be ten times more so to human beings . 
You merit the name your subjects give you you are the Good King . 
I thank you for your protection , and shall be always one of your best friends . 
You have but to say what you most desire , and I promise you your wish shall be granted . 
Madam , replied the king , if you are a fairy , you must know , without my telling you , the wish of my heart . 
I have one well beloved son , Prince Cherry whatever kindly feeling you have toward me , extend it to him . 
I will make him the handsomest , richest , or most powerful prince in the world choose whichever you desire for him . 
None of the three , returned the father . 
I only wish him to be good the best prince in the whole world . 
You mortals can do the same with your children . 
Ah , yes ! said the king , sighing . 
Still , he felt that the kindness of a fairy was something gained for his son , and died not long after , content and at peace . 
Prince Cherry mourned deeply , for he dearly loved his father , and would have gladly given all his kingdoms and treasures to keep him in life a little longer . 
Two days after the Good King was no more , Prince Cherry was sleeping in his chamber , when he saw the same dazzling vision of the fairy Candide . 
Poor as it looks , it is more precious than diamonds for whenever you do ill it will prick your finger . 
If , after that warning , you still continue in evil , you will lose my friendship , and I shall become your direst enemy . 
So saying , she disappeared , leaving Cherry in such amazement that he would have believed it all a dream , save for the ring on his finger . 
But one unlucky day he was out hunting and found no sport , which vexed him so much that he showed his ill temper by his looks and ways . 
The creature , accustomed to nothing but caresses , tried to attract his attention by pulling at his garments , when Prince Cherry turned and gave it a severe kick . 
At this moment he felt in his finger a prick like a pin . 
What nonsense ! said he to himself . 
The fairy must be making game of me . 
I a fairy am as much above you as you are above your dog . 
I might punish you , kill you , if I chose but I prefer leaving you to amend your ways . 
You have been guilty of three faults today bad temper , passion , cruelty do better to morrow . 
He found out now that even a king cannot always do that it vexed him and made him angry . 
His ring began to prick him so often that his little finger was continually bleeding . 
He disliked this , as was natural , and soon began to consider whether it would not be easier to throw the ring away altogether than to be constantly annoyed by it . 
He did it , and became every day more and more miserable . 
One day he saw a young girl , so beautiful that , being always accustomed to have his own way , he immediately determined to espouse her . 
He never doubted that she would be only too glad to be made a queen , for she was very poor . 
But Zelia that was her name answered , to his great astonishment , that she would rather not marry him . 
Do I displease you ? asked the prince , into whose mind it had never entered that he could displease anybody . 
Not at all , my prince , said the honest peasant maiden . 
You are very handsome , very charming but you are not like your father the Good King . 
I will not be your queen , for you would make me miserable . 
Sir , said this man , if I were in your majesty's place , I would never vex myself about a poor silly girl . 
You will be disgraced should you suffer yourself to be conquered by a simple girl . 
Cherry sent immediately , and ordered his old friend to be brought to him , loaded heavily with irons . 
The fairy Candide stood before him . 
Prince , said she , in a severe voice , I promised your father to give you good counsels and to punish you if you refused to follow them . 
My counsels were forgotten , my punishment despised . 
Take , therefore , in your new form the likeness of all these animals . 
Scarcely had Prince Cherry heard these words than to his horror he found himself transformed into what the Fairy had named . 
He was a creature with the head of a lion , the horns of a bull , the feet of a wolf , and the tail of a serpent . 
All this the poor monster heard . 
I know his heart , said the honest and faithful old man it is tainted , but not corrupt . 
If alive , he may reform yet , and be all his father over again to you , his people , whom he has caused to suffer so much . 
However , he owned he had deserved it all , and began to make amends by showing himself very obedient to his keeper . 
This man was almost as great a brute as the animals he had charge of , and when he was in ill humor he used to beat them without rhyme or reason . 
One day , while he was sleeping , a tiger broke loose and leaped upon him , eager to devour him . 
Cherry at first felt a thrill of pleasure at the thought of being revenged then , seeing how helpless the man was , he wished himself free , that he might defend him . 
Immediately the doors of his cage opened . 
The keeper , waking up , saw the strange beast leap out , and imagined , of course , that he was going to be slain at once . 
Instead , he saw the tiger lying dead , and the strange beast creeping up and laying itself at his feet to be caressed . 
The queen wished to have the charming little dog and Cherry would have been exceedingly happy could he have forgotten that he was originally a man and a king . 
He was lodged most elegantly , had the richest of collars to adorn his neck , and heard himself praised continually . 
But instead of the stream he saw a splendid palace , glittering with gold and precious stones . 
Entering the doors was a crowd of men and women , magnificently dressed and within there was singing and dancing and good cheer of all sorts . 
Yet , however grandly and gayly the people went in , Cherry noticed that those who came out were pale , thin , ragged , half naked , covered with wounds and sores . 
Cherry perceived one woman , who was trying feebly to gather and eat some green herbs . 
So the little dog ran up to her and dropped his bread at her feet she picked it up and ate it with avidity . 
Oh , how he wished himself a monster again , as when he slew the tiger ! for the young girl was no other than his beloved Zelia . 
And then he lay down outside the palace door , determined to watch and see what had become of Zelia . 
And at the same time the voice in the air repeated again , Good actions never go unrewarded and Cherry found himself changed into a beautiful little white pigeon . 
He remembered with joy that white was the color of the fairy Candide , and began to hope that she was taking him into favor again . 
So he stretched his wings , delighted that he might now have a chance of approaching his fair Zelia . 
He flew up to the palace windows , and , finding one of them open , entered and sought everywhere , but he could not find Zelia . 
Then , in despair , he flew out again , resolved to go over the world until he beheld her once more . 
He took flight at once and traversed many countries , swiftly as a bird can , but found no trace of his beloved . 
At length in a desert , sitting beside an old hermit in his cave and par taking with him his frugal repast , Cherry saw a poor peasant girl and recognized Zelia . 
Transported with joy , he flew in , perched on her shoulder , and expressed his delight and affection by a thousand caresses . 
She , charmed with the pretty little pigeon , caressed it in her turn , and promised it that if it would stay with her she would love it always . 
What have you done , Zelia ? said the hermit , smiling and while he spoke the white pigeon vanished , and there stood Prince Cherry in his own natural form . 
Your enchantment ended , prince , when Zelia promised to love you . 
Indeed , she has loved you always , but your many faults constrained her to hide her love . 
These are now amended , and you may both live happy if you will , because your union is founded upon mutual esteem . 
Cherry and Zelia threw themselves at the feet of the hermit , whose form also began to change . 
His soiled garments became of dazzling whiteness , and his long beard and withered face grew into the flowing hair and lovely countenance of the fairy Candide . 
Rise up , my children , said she I must now transport you to your palace and restore to Prince Cherry his father's crown , of which he is now worthy . 
The king went to a good fairy to inquire what he should do . 
Said the fairy , after receiving him graciously Sir , I will tell you a great secret . 
That will not be very difficult , thought the king to himself , and departed , resolving to trample the cat's tail to pieces rather than not succeed in walking upon it . 
He went immediately to the palace of his fair mistress and the cat the animal came in front of him , arching its back in anger as it was wont to do . 
The king lifted up his foot , thinking nothing would be so easy as to tread on the tail , but he found himself mistaken . 
Minon that was the creature's name twisted itself round so sharply that the king only hurt his own foot by stamping on the floor . 
At last the king had the good fortune to catch Minon sleeping , when tramp ! tramp ! he trod on the tail with all his force . 
Minon woke up , mewed horribly , and immediately changed from a cat into a large , fierce looking man , who regarded the king with flashing eyes . 
You must marry the princess , cried he , because you have broken the enchantment in which I held her but I will be revenged on you . 
And if you ever tell anybody of this threat of mine , you shall die on the spot . 
So saying the magician disappeared . 
The king , who was at first much terrified , soon began to laugh at this adventure . 
My son might have a worse misfortune than too long a nose , thought he . 
At least it will hinder him neither in seeing nor hearing . 
I will go and find the princess and marry her at once . 
He did so , but he only lived a few months after , and died before his little son was born , so that nobody knew anything about the secret of the nose . 
The little prince was so much wished for that when he came into the world they agreed to call him Prince Wish . 
He had beautiful blue eyes and a sweet little mouth , but his nose was so big that it covered half his face . 
All great soldiers , they said , had great noses , as everybody knew . 
The queen was so very fond of her son that she listened eagerly to all this comfort . 
But grow as they would , they never could grow as long as that of Prince Wish . 
When he was twenty years old his mother and his people wished him to marry . 
They procured for him the likenesses of many princesses , but the one he preferred was Princess Darling , daughter of a powerful monarch and heiress to several kingdoms . 
Alas ! with all her beauty , this princess had one great misfortune , a little turned up nose , which , every one else said made her only the more bewitching . 
But here , in the kingdom of Prince Wish , the courtiers were thrown by it into the utmost perplexity . 
At this information Prince Wish was so delighted that he made the courtier a very handsome present , and immediately sent off ambassadors to demand Princess Darling in marriage . 
She accepted his offer at once , and returned with the ambassadors . 
Prince Wish , almost beside himself with grief , declared that nothing should induce him to return to his throne and kingdom till he had found Darling . 
The horse entered a wide extended plain , and trotted on steadily the whole day without finding a single house . 
What a funny nose ! cried the one . 
Not so funny as yours , madam , returned the other . 
But pray let us leave our noses alone , and be good enough to give me something to eat , for I am dying with hunger , and so is my poor horse . 
With all my heart , answered the fairy . 
Although your nose is ridiculously long , you are no less the son of one of my best friends . 
I loved your father like a brother he had a very handsome nose . 
What is wanting to my nose ? asked Wish rather savagely . 
Oh ! nothing at all . 
On the contrary , there is a great deal too much of it but never mind , one may be a very honest man , and yet have too big a nose . 
As I said , I was a great friend of your father's he came often to see me . 
The fairy , pleased at his civility , called her servants and bade them supply him at once with all he needed . 
And , added she , I must say you are very polite and very good tempered , in spite of your nose . 
What has the old woman to do with my nose ? thought the prince . 
If I were not so very hungry , I would soon show her what she is a regular old gossip and chatterbox . 
She to fancy she talks little , indeed ! One must be very foolish not to know one's own defects . 
This comes of being born a princess . 
Flatterers have spoiled her and persuaded her that she talks little . 
Little , indeed ! I never knew anybody chatter so much . 
While the prince thus meditated , the servants were laying the table , the fairy asking them a hundred unnecessary questions , simply for the pleasure of hearing herself talk . 
But they could never deceive me . 
I know all my own weak points , I trust . 
As truly he believed he did . 
So he went on eating contentedly , nor stopped till the old fairy began to address him . 
Prince , said she , will you be kind enough to turn a little ? Your nose casts such a shadow that I cannot see what is on my plate . 
And , as I was saying , your father admired me and always made me welcome at court . 
I wish you would cease to speak of my nose , said the prince , becoming annoyed . 
It is what it is , and I do not desire it any shorter . 
Oh ! I see that I have vexed you , returned the fairy . 
He traveled for a long time , half over the world , but he heard no news of Princess Darling . 
However , in each place he went to , he heard one remarkable fact the great length of his own nose . 
So the poor prince became gradually quite forlorn and solitary he thought all the world was mad , but still he never thought of there being anything queer about his own nose . 
At last the old fairy , who , though she was a chatterbox , was very good natured saw that he was almost breaking his heart . 
He leaped from his horse and ran toward her . 
She held out her hand for him to kiss , but he could not get at it for the glass . 
Transported with eagerness and delight , he dashed his sword through the crystal and succeeded in breaking a small opening , to which she put up her beautiful rosy mouth . 
But it was in vain Prince Wish could not approach it . 
He twisted his neck about , and turned his head on all sides , till at length , putting up his hand to his face , he discovered the impediment . 
It must be confessed , 't exclaimed he , that my nose is too long . 
That moment the glass walls all split asunder , and the old fairy appeared , leading Princess Darling . 
Avow , prince , said she , that you are very much obliged to me , for now the enchantment is ended . 
You may marry the object of your choice . 
Now behold it ! and she held up a crystal mirror . 
Are you satisfied to be no different from other people ? Perfectly , said Prince Wish , who found his nose had shrunk to an ordinary length . 
And taking the Princess Darling by the hand , he kissed her courteously , affectionately , and satisfactorily . 
Then they departed to their own country , and lived very happily all their days . 
Now , near the king's castle was a large dark forest and in the forest , under an old linden tree , was a deep well . 
This was her favorite amusement . 
The king's daughter followed it with her eyes , but the ball had vanished , and the well was so deep that no one could see down to the bottom . 
Then she began to weep , wept louder and louder every minute , and could not console herself at all . 
While she was thus lamenting some one called to her What is the matter with you , king's daughter ? You weep so that you would touch the heart of a stone . 
She looked around to see whence the voice came , and saw a frog stretching his thick ugly head out of the water . 
Ah ! it is you , old water paddler ! said she . 
I am crying for my golden ball , which has fallen into the well . 
Oh , yes ! said she I promise you every thing , if you will only bring me back my golden ball . 
In a little while up he came again with the ball in his mouth , and threw it on the grass . 
The king's daughter was overjoyed when she beheld her pretty plaything again , picked it up , and ran away with it . 
Wait ! wait ! cried the frog take me with you . 
I cannot run as fast as you . 
Alas ! of what use was it that he croaked after her as loud as he could . 
She would not listen to him , but hastened home , and soon forgot the poor frog , who was obliged to plunge again to the bottom of his well . 
For this I promised him he should be my companion , but I never thought he could come out of his well . 
Now he is at the door , and wants to come in . 
Then said the king , What you promised you must perform . 
Go and open the door . 
She went and opened the door the frog hopped in , always following and following her till he came up to her chair . 
There he sat and cried out , Lift me up to you on the table . 
She refused , till the king , her father , commanded her to do it . 
When the frog was on the table , he said , Now push your little golden plate nearer to me , that we may eat together . 
She did as he desired , but one could easily see that she did it unwillingly . 
The frog seemed to enjoy his dinner very much , but every morsel she ate stuck in the throat of the poor little princess . 
At this the daughter of the king began to weep for she was afraid of the cold frog , who wanted to sleep in her pretty clean bed . 
But the king looked angrily at her , and said again What you have promised you must perform . 
The frog is your companion . 
It was no use to complain whether she liked it or not , she was obliged to take the frog with her up to her little bed . 
The next day a carriage drove up to the palace gates with eight white horses , having white feathers on their heads and golden reins . 
Behind it stood the servant of the young prince , called the faithful Henry . 
Now the carriage came to convey the prince to his kingdom , so the faithful Henry lifted in the bride and bridegroom and mounted behind , full of joy at his lord's release . 
But when they had gone a short distance , the prince heard behind him a noise as if something was breaking . 
Yes , replied her mother , whenever a young man shall appear who is worthy of her . 
Soon afterward they sat down to dinner , and her mother said , Alice , go down into the cellar and draw some beer . 
So Clever Alice took the jug down from the wall , and went into the cellar , jerking the lid up and down on her way , to pass away the time . 
Presently she perceived , after much peeping into this corner and that corner , a hatchet , which the bricklayers had left behind ? sticking out of the ceiling right above her head . 
Meanwhile the good folks upstairs were waiting for the beer , but as Clever Alice did not come , her mother told the maid to go and see what she was stopping for . 
Oh , said the maid , what a clever Alice we have ! And sitting down , she began to weep , too , for the misfortune that was to happen . 
When she had finished , the boy exclaimed , What a clever Alice we have ! and fell weeping and howling with the others . 
Then the mother likewise exclaimed , Oh , what a clever Alice we have ! and , sitting down , began to weep as much as any of the rest . 
When he entered , there sat the five crying and groaning , each one in a louder key than his neighbor . 
What misfortune has happened ? he asked . 
And , taking her hand , he led her home , and celebrated the wedding directly . 
Yes , she answered , I will do so , dear Hans . 
And when he was gone , she cooked herself a nice mess of pottage to take with her . 
When he had done this , he went back again and shut to the house door , and , seating himself on his stool , began working very industriously . 
At last she thought she would go home and ask whether she was really herself supposing somebody would be able to tell her . 
But as soon as the folks within heard the jingling of the bells in her net , they refused to open their doors , and nobody would receive her . 
So she ran straight away from the village , and no one has ever seen her since . 
