Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
On her knees , with stiff brush and much soapy water , she had scrubbed the kitchen floor until the boards dried white as kitchen floors may be . 
She had baked a loaf of gingerbread , that came from the oven with a most delectable odor , and had wrapped it in a clean cloth to cool on the kitchen table . 
Her dad and Lite Avery would show cause for the baking of it when they sat down , fresh washed and ravenous , to their supper that evening . 
I mention Jean and her scrubbed kitchen and the gingerbread by way of proving how the Lazy A went unwarned and unsuspecting to the very brink of its disaster . 
Jean's father , big Aleck Douglas , had saddled and ridden away alone upon business of his own . 
In ten minutes or so she went galloping down the coulee and out upon the trail to town , which was fifteen miles away and held a chum of hers . 
The sun was warm , and cloud shadows drifted lazily across the coulee with the breeze that blew from the west . 
The rooster was wallowing luxuriously in a dusty spot in the corral . 
The young colt lay stretched out on the fat of its side in the sun , sound asleep . 
The sorrel mare lay beside it , asleep also , with her head thrown up against her shoulder . 
Somewhere in a shed a calf was bawling in bored lonesomeness away from its mother feeding down the pasture . 
Lite Avery , riding toward home just when the shadows were beginning to grow long behind him , wondered if Jean would be back by the time he reached the ranch . 
He hoped so , with a vague distaste at finding the place empty of her cheerful presence . 
Be looked at his watch it was nearly four o'clock . 
She ought to be home by half past four or five , anyway . 
He glanced sidelong at Jim and quietly slackened his pace a little . 
Jim believed he was listening , and drove home the point of his story . 
Yes , sir , them's his very words . 
He'll do it , too , take it from me , Crofty is shore riled up this time . 
Always is , Lite observed , without paying much attention . 
I'll turn off here , Jim , and cut across . 
Got some work I want to get done yet to night . 
He swung away from his companion , whose trail to the Bar Nothing led him straight west , passing the Lazy A coulee well out from its mouth , toward the river . 
Lite could save a half mile by bearing off to the north and entering the coulee at the eastern side and riding up through the pasture . 
He wanted to see how the grass was coming on , anyway . 
The last rain should have given it a fresh start . 
He was in no great hurry , after all he had merely been bored with Jim's company and wanted to go on alone . 
And then he could get the fire started for Jean . 
The novelty of her presence on the ranch was still fresh enough to fill his thoughts with her slim attractiveness . 
Town hadn't spoiled her , he thought glowingly . 
She was the same good little pal , only she was growing up pretty fast , now . 
She was a young lady already . 
His first involuntary glance was towards the house , and there was unacknowledged expectancy in his eyes . 
But he did not see Jean , nor any sign that she had returned . 
Instead , he saw her father just mounting in haste at the corral . 
Lite quickened his own pace . 
Lite let down the rails of the barred gate from the meadow into the pasture , mounted , and went galloping across the uneven sod . 
His first anxious thought was for the girl . 
Had something happened to her ? At the stable he looked and saw that Jean's saddle did not hang on its accustomed peg inside the door , and he breathed freer . 
She could not have returned , then . 
He turned his own horse inside without taking off the saddle , and looked around him puzzled . 
Nothing seemed wrong about the place . 
Not a thing seemed unusual . 
Yet Lite stood just outside the stable , and the sensation that something was wrong grew keener . 
He was not a nervous person , you would have laughed at the idea of nerves in connection with Lite Avery . 
He felt that something was wrong , just the same . 
It was not altogether the hurried departure of Aleck Douglas , either , that made him feel so . 
He looked at the house setting back there close to the bluff just where it began to curve rudely out from the narrowest part of the coulee . 
It was still and quiet , with closed windows and doors to tell there was no one at home . 
And yet , to Lite its very silence seemed sinister . 
He heard the mantel clock in the living room ticking with the resonance given by a room empty of all other sound . 
Because his ears were keen , he heard also the little alarm clock in the kitchen tick tick tick on the shelf behind the stove where Jean kept it daytimes . 
He pushed the door open and stepped inside . 
Then for a full minute he did not move . 
On the floor that Jean had scrubbed till it was so white , a man lay dead , stretched upon his back . 
On the floor , where it had dropped from his hand perhaps when he fell , a small square piece of gingerbread lay , crumbled around the edges . 
Tragic halo around his head , a pool of blood was turning brown and clotted . 
Lite shivered a little while he stared down at him . 
In a minute he lifted his eyes from the figure and looked around the small room . 
The stove shone black in the sunlight which the open door let in . 
Nothing else seemed in the least to bear any evidence of what had taken place . 
Lite's thoughts turned in spite of him to the man who had ridden from the coulee as though fiends had pursued . 
The conclusion was obvious , yet Lite loyally rejected it in the face of reason . 
Reason told him that there went the slayer . 
For this dead man was what was left of Johnny Croft , the Crofty of whom Jim had gossiped not more than half an hour before . 
Death had undoubtedly been immediate . 
Lite thought of these things while he stood there just inside the door . 
Then he turned slowly and went outside , and stood hesitating upon the porch . 
If the rider had been fleeing from his crime , as was likely , Lite had no mind to raise at once the hue and cry . 
He was half tempted to ride away and say nothing for a while . 
He could let it appear that he had not been at the house at all and so had not discovered the crime when he did . 
That would give Aleck Douglas more time to get away . 
But there was Jean , due at any moment now . 
He could not go away and let Jean discover that gruesome thing on the kitchen floor . 
He could not take it up and hide it away somewhere he could not do anything , it seemed to him , but just wait . 
It was unreal , it was unthinkable , that Aleck Douglas , the man who met but friendly glances , ride where he might , had done this thing . 
And yet there was nothing else to believe . 
Johnny Croft had worked here on the ranch for a couple of months , off and on . 
He had not been steadily employed , and he had been paid by the day instead of by the month as was the custom . 
He had worked also for Carl Douglas at the Bar Nothing back and forth , for one or the other as work pressed . 
Lite knew that there had been some dispute when he had left he had claimed payment for more days than he had worked . 
Aleck was a just man who paid honestly what he owed he was also known to be close fisted . 
He would pay what he owed and not a nickel more , hence the dispute . 
Johnny had gone away seeming satisfied that his own figures were wrong , but later on he had quarreled with Carl over wages and other things . 
Carl had a bad temper that sometimes got beyond his control , and he had ordered Johnny off the ranch . 
This was part of the long , full detailed story Jim had been telling . 
Johnny had left , and he had talked about the Douglas brothers to any one who would listen . 
He had said they were crooked , both of them , and would cheat a working man out of his pay . 
He had come back , evidently , to renew the argument with Aleck . 
That was Johnny's way , a way that went unquestioned , since he had lived there long enough to feel at home . 
He had come back , and he had helped himself to the gingerbread . 
And then he had been shot down . 
He was lying in there now , just as he had fallen , and his blood was staining deep the fresh scrubbed floor . 
And Jean would be coming home soon . 
Lite thought it would be better if he rode out to meet her , and told her what had happened , so that she need not come upon it unprepared . 
He had reached the stable when a horse walked out from behind the hay corral and stopped , eyeing him curiously . 
Even as improvident a cowpuncher as Johnny Croft had been likes to own a private horse , one that is his own and can be ridden when and where the owner chooses . 
Lite turned and went over to it , caught it by the dragging bridle reins , and led it into an empty stall . 
Lite was too thorough a horseman not to be thoughtful of an animal's comfort . 
He led his own horse out , and then he stopped abruptly . 
For Pard stood in front of the kitchen door , and Jean was untying a package or two from the saddle . 
He opened his mouth to call to her he started forward but he was too late to prevent what happened . 
He did not call to her . 
What was the use ? She had seen . 
She had dropped her packages , and turned and ran to meet him , and caught him by the arm in a panic of horror . 
Lite patted her hand awkwardly , not knowing what he ought to say . 
What made you go in there ? came of its own accord from his lips . 
That's no place for a girl . 
It's Johnny Croft ! she gasped just above her breath . 
How did it happen , Lite ? I don't know , said Lite slowly , looking down and still patting her hand . 
Your father and I have both been gone all day . 
I just got back a few minutes ago and found out about it . 
He led her back to where Pard stood , and told her to get on . 
Without asking him why , Jean obeyed him , with a shudder when her wide eyes strayed fascinated to the open door and to what lay just within . 
You can't stay here , he explained , when she looked at him inquiringly . 
Do you want to go over and stay at Carl's , or would you rather go back to town ? He rode down toward the gate , and Jean kept beside him . 
I'm going to stay with dad , she told him shakily . 
If he stays , I'll I'll stay . 
You'll not stay , he contradicted her bluntly . 
And he added self reproachfully I never thought of your cutting across the bench and riding down the trail back of the house . 
I meant to head you off It's shorter , said Jean briefly . 
I if I can't stay , I'd rather go to town , Lite . 
I don't like to stay over at Uncle Carl's . 
Therefore , when they reached the mouth of the coulee , Lite turned into the trail that led to town . 
But Jean was too upset to notice them , and for that Lite was thankful . 
They did not talk much , beyond the commonplace speculations which tragedy always brings to the lips of the bystanders . 
Comments that were perfectly obvious they made , it is true . 
Jean said it was perfectly awful , and Lite agreed with her . 
Jean wondered how it could have happened , and Lite said he didn't know . 
Neither of them said anything about the effect it would have upon their future I don't suppose that Jean , at least , could remotely guess at the effect . 
It is certain that Lite preferred not to do so . 
They were no more than half way to town when they met a group of galloping horsemen , their coming heralded for a mile by the dust they kicked out of the trail . 
In the midst rode Jean's father . 
Alongside him rode the coroner , and behind him rode the sheriff . 
The rest of the company was made up of men who had heard the news and were coming to look upon the tragedy . 
Lite drew a long breath of relief . 
Aleck Douglas , then , had not been running away . 
CHAPTER II CONCERNING LITE AND A FEW FOOTPRINTS Lucky you was with me all day , up to four o'clock , Lite , Jim said . 
That lets you out slick and clean , seeing the doctor claims he'd been dead six hours when he seen him last night . 
Crofty why , Crofty was laying in there dead when I was talking about him to you ! Kinda gives a man the creeps to think of it . 
Who do you reckon done it , Lite ? How'n hell do I know ? Lite retorted irritably . 
I didn't see it done . 
Jim studied awhile , an ear cocked for the signal that the coroner was ready to begin the inquest . 
Packed a lunch , same as I did . 
The answer seemed to satisfy Jim and to eliminate from his mind any slight suspicion he may have held , but Lite had a sudden impulse to improve upon his statement . 
I saw Aleck ride into the ranch as I was coming home , he said . 
As he spoke , his face lightened as with a weight lifted from his mind . 
Later , when the coroner questioned him about his movements and the movements of Aleck , Lite repeated the lie as casually as possible . 
It was only when he had discovered Johnny Croft's horse at the haystack , he said , that he began to wonder where the rider could be . 
He had gone to the house and found him on the kitchen floor . 
Lite had not heard this statement , for the simple reason that , being a closely interested person , he had been invited to remain outside while Aleck Douglas testified . 
The coroner also had given him a queer look , but he had not made any comment . 
Aleck , too , had turned his head and stared at Lite in a way which Lite preferred to think he had not understood . 
Beyond that one statement which had produced such a curious effect , Lite did not have anything to say that shed the faintest light upon the matter . 
He told where he had been , and that he had discovered the body just before Jean arrived , and that he had immediately started with her to town . 
The coroner did not cross question him . 
Counting from four o'clock , which Jim had already named as the time of their separation , Lite would have had just about time to do the things he testified to doing . 
The only thing he claimed to have done and could not possibly have done , was to see Aleck Douglas riding into the coulee . 
Aleck himself had branded that a lie before Lite had ever uttered it . 
The result was just what was to be expected . 
It was Lite who told her . 
It'll come out all right , he said , in his calm way that might hide a good deal of emotion beneath it . 
It's just to have something to work from , don't mean anything in particular . 
It's a funny way the law has got , he explained , of arresting the last man that saw a fellow alive , or the first one that sees him dead . 
Jean studied this explanation dolefully . 
They ought to find out the last one that saw him alive , she said resentfully , and arrest him , then , and leave dad out of it . 
There's no sense in the law , if that's the way it works . 
Well , I didn't make the law , Lite observed , in a tone that made Jean look up curiously into his face . 
Why don't they find out who saw him last ? she repeated . 
Somebody must have gone there with him . 
Lite , do you know that Art Osgood came into town with his horse all in a lather of sweat , and took the afternoon train yesterday ? I saw him . 
I met him square in the middle of the street , and he didn't even look at me . 
He was in a frightful hurry , and he looked all upset . 
If I was the law , I'd leave dad alone and get after Art Osgood . 
He acted to me , she added viciously , exactly as if he were running away ! He wasn't , though . 
Jim told me Art was going to leave yesterday that was in the forenoon . 
He's going to Alaska , been planning it all spring . 
And Carl said he was with Art till Art left to catch the train . 
Somebody else from town here had seen him take the train , and asked about him . 
No , it wasn't Art . 
Well , who was it , then ? Never before had Lite failed to tell Jean just what she wanted to know . 
He failed now , and he went away as though he was glad to put distance between them . 
He did not know what to think . 
He did not want to think . 
Certainly he did not want to talk , to Jean especially . 
For lies never came easily to the tongue of Lite Avery . 
Several men tried to stop him and talk about it , but he put them off . 
He was due at the ranch , he said , to look after the stock . 
He didn't know a thing about it , anyway . 
Lazy A coulee , when he rode into it , seemed to wear already an air of depression , foretaste of what was to come . 
The trail was filled with hoofprints , and cut deep with the wagon that had borne the dead man to town and to an unwept burial . 
At the gate he met Carl Douglas , riding with his head sunk deep on his chest . 
From the look of his face , Carl also would have avoided the meeting , if he could have done so . 
He glanced up as Lite passed through . 
Hell of a verdict , Lite made brief comment when he met Carl's eyes . 
Carl stopped , leaning against his horse with one hand thrown up to the saddle horn . 
He was a small man , not at all like Aleck in size or in features . 
He looked haggard now and white . 
What do you make of it ? he asked Lite . 
Do you believe ? Of course I don't ! Great question for a brother to ask , Lite retorted sharply . 
It's not in Aleck to do a thing like that . 
What made you say you saw him ride home ? You didn't , did you ? You heard what I said take it or leave it . 
Lite scowled down at Carl . 
What made you do that ? It won't help Aleck none . 
Well , what are you going to do about it ? Lite slouched miserably in the saddle , and eyed the other without really seeing him at all . 
They can't prove anything on Aleck , he added with faint hope . 
I don't see myself how they can . 
His being alone all day is bad he can't furnish the alibi you can furnish . 
But they can't prove anything . 
They'll turn him loose , the grand jury will they'll have to . 
They can't indict him on the evidence . 
They haven't got any evidence , not any more than just the fact that he rode in with the news . 
No need to worry he'll be turned loose in a few days . 
He picked up the gate , dragged it after him as he went through , and fumbled the wire loop into place over the post . 
I wish , he said when he had mounted with the gate between them , you hadn't been so particular to say you saw him ride home about the same time you did . 
That looks bad , Lite . 
Bad for who ? Lite turned in the saddle aggressively . 
I don't see what made you do that not when you knew Jim and Aleck had both testified before you did . 
Lite rode slowly down the road to the stable , and cursed the impulse that had made him blunder so . 
He had no compunctions for the lie , if only it had done any good . 
It had done harm he could see now that it had . 
But he could not believe that it would make any material difference in Aleck's case . 
As the story had been repeated to Lite by half a dozen men , who had heard him tell it , Aleck's own testimony had been responsible for the verdict . 
Men had told Lite plainly that Aleck was a fool not to plead self defense , even in face of the fact that Johnny Croft had not drawn any weapon . 
Jim had declared that Aleck could have sworn that Johnny reached for his gun . 
Others admitted voluntarily that while it would be a pretty weak defense , it would beat the story Aleck had told . 
Lite turned the mare and colt into a shed for the night . 
Still , it occurred to him that he might as well go on with the routine of the place until they knew to a certainty what the grand jury would do . 
So he went in and put away the milk . 
After that , Lite let other work wait while he cleaned the kitchen and tried to wash out that brown stain on the floor . 
His face was moody , his eyes dull with trouble . 
Like a treadmill , his mind went over and over the meager knowledge he had of the tragedy . 
He could not bring himself to believe Aleck Douglas guilty of the murder yet he could not believe anything else . 
Johnny Croft , it had been proven at the inquest , rode out from town alone , bent on mischief , if vague , half drunken threats meant anything . 
He had told more than one that he was going to the Lazy A , but it was certain that no one had followed him from town . 
As to enemies , no one had particularly liked Johnny . 
He was not a likeable sort he was too mouthy according to his associates . 
It was inconceivable to Lite that any man had trailed Johnny Croft to the Lazy A and shot him down in the kitchen while he was calmly helping himself to Jean's gingerbread . 
Still , he must take that for granted or else believe what he steadfastly refused to confess even to himself that he believed . 
It was nearly dark when he threw out the last pail of water and stood looking down dissatisfied at the result of his labor , while he dried his hands . 
The stain was still there , in spite of him , just as the memory of the murder would cling always to the place . 
He went out and watered Jean's poppies and sweet peas and pansies , still going over and over the evidence and trying to fill in the gaps . 
He had blundered with his lie that had meant to help . 
The lie had proven to every man who heard him utter it that his faith in Aleck's innocence was not strong it had proven that he did not trust the facts . 
That hurt Lite , and made it seem more than ever his task to clear up the matter , if he could . 
If he could not , then he would make amends in whatever way he might . 
He had thought until his brain felt heavy and stupid and the last cigarette he lighted he threw away , for he had smoked until his tongue was sore . 
He went in and went to bed . 
For a long time he lay awake . 
It was when he went in to cook his belated breakfast that Lite noticed something which had no logical explanation . 
There were footprints on the kitchen floor that he had scrubbed so diligently . 
He stood looking at them , much as he had looked at the stain that would not come out , no matter how hard he scrubbed . 
He had not gone in the room after he had pulled the door shut and gone off to water Jean's dowers . 
He was positive upon that point and even if he had gone in , his tracks would scarcely have led straight across the room to the cupboard where the table dishes were kept . 
The tracks led to the cupboard , and were muddled confusedly there , as though the maker had stood there for some minutes . 
Lite could not see any sense in that . 
They were very distinct , just as footprints always show plainly on clean boards . 
The floor had evidently been moist still , Lite had scrubbed man fashion , with a broom , and had not been very particular about drying the floor afterwards . 
Also he had thrown the water straight out from the door , and the fellow must have stepped on the moist sand that clung to his boots . 
In the dark he could not notice that , or see that he had left tracks on the floor . 
Lite went to the cupboard and looked inside it , wondering what the man could have wanted there . 
It was one of those old fashioned safes such as our grandmothers considered indispensable in the furnishing of a kitchen . 
Clearly there was nothing there to tempt a thief , and there was nothing disturbed . 
He pulled out the two small drawers just under the cupboard top and looked within them . 
The first held pipes and sacks of tobacco and books of cigarette papers Lite knew well enough the contents of that drawer . 
He appraised the supply of tobacco , remembered how much had been there on the morning of the murder , and decided that none had been taken . 
He helped himself to a fresh ten cent sack of tobacco and inspected the other drawer . 
Here were merchants' bills , a few letters of no consequence , a couple of writing tablets , two lead pencils , and a steel pen and a squat bottle of ink . 
This was called the writing drawer , and had been since Lite first came to the ranch . 
Here Lite believed the confusion was recent . 
Jean had been very domestic since her return from school , and all disorder had been frowned upon . 
Lately the letters had been stacked in a corner , whereas now they were scattered . 
But they were of no consequence , once they had been read , and there was nothing else to merit attention from any one . 
Lite looked down at the tracks and saw that they led into another room , which was Aleck's bedroom . 
He went in there , but he could not find any reason for a night prowler's visit . 
Aleck's desk was always open . 
There was never anything there which he wanted to hide away . 
His account books and his business correspondence , such as it was , lay accessible to the curious . 
There was nothing intricate or secret about the running of the Lazy A ranch nothing that should interest any one save the owner . 
It occurred to Lite that incriminating evidence is sometimes placed surreptitiously in a suspected man's desk . 
He had heard of such things being done . 
He could not imagine what evidence might be placed here by any one , but he made a thorough search . 
He did not find anything that remotely concerned the murder . 
He could not find any excuse for those footprints . 
He cooked and ate his breakfast absent mindedly , glancing often down at the footprints on the floor , and occasionally at the brown stain in the center . 
He decided that he would not say anything about those tracks . 
He would keep his eyes open and his mouth shut , and see what came of it . 
You would think that Aleck Douglas could not be convicted of murder just because he had reported that a man was shot down in Aleck's house . 
The report of Aleck Douglas' trial is not the main feature of this story it is merely the commencement , one might say . 
Aleck's position was dishearteningly simple , and there was nothing much that one could do to soften the facts or throw a new light on the murder . 
Lite watched , wide awake and eager , many a night for the return of that prowler , but he never saw or heard a thing that gave him any clue whatever . 
So the footprints seemed likely to remain the mystery they had seemed on the morning when he discovered them . 
He laid traps , pretending to ride away from the ranch to town before dark , and returning cautiously by way of the trail down the bluff behind the house . 
But nothing came of it . 
Lazy A ranch was keeping its secret well , and by the time the trial was begun , Lite had given up hope . 
Once he believed the house had been visited in the daytime , during his absence in town , but he could not be sure of that . 
Jean went to Chinook and stayed there , so that Lite saw her seldom . 
Carl also was away much of the time , trying by every means he could think of to swing public opinion and the evidence in Aleck's favor . 
He prevailed upon Rossman , who was Montana's best known lawyer , to defend the case , for one thing . 
He seemed to pin his faith almost wholly upon Rossman , and declared to every one that Aleck would never be convicted . 
Perhaps he did not , after all , handle things right . 
For in spite of Rossman , and Aleck's splendid reputation , and the meager evidence against him , he was found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to eight years in Deer Lodge penitentiary . 
Rossman had made a great speech , and had made men in the jury blink back unshed tears . 
But he could not shake from them the belief that Aleck Douglas had ridden home and met Johnny Croft , calmly making himself at home in the Lazy A kitchen . 
He could not convince them that there had not been a quarrel , and that Aleck had not fired the shot in the grip of a sudden , overwhelming rage against Croft . 
By Aleck's own statement he had been at the ranch some time before he had started for town to report the murder . 
By the word of several witnesses , it had been proven that Croft had left town meaning to collect wages which he claimed were due him or else he would get even . 
There is no means of knowing just how far reaching was the effect of that impulsive lie which Lite had told at the inquest . 
He did not repeat the blunder at the trial . 
Beyond that he would not go , question him as they might . 
You know how those things go . 
These things are not put in the papers . 
Lite took her by the arm and swung her away from the curious crowd which she did not see . 
You're my girl now , and I'm going to start right in using my authority . 
I've got Pard here in the stable . 
You go climb into your riding clothes , and we'll hit it outa this darned burg where every man and his dog has all gone to eyes and tongues . 
Where ? Jean held back a little with vague stubbornness against the thought of taking up life again without her dad . 
This this is the jumping off place , Lite . 
We're taking the long way round , he observed because I'm going to talk to you like a Dutch uncle for saying things like that . 
I had a talk with your dad last night , Jean . 
He's turned you over to me to look after till he gets back . 
I wish he coulda turned the ranch over , along with you , but he couldn't . 
That's been signed over to Carl , somehow I didn't go into that with your dad we didn't have much time . 
Seems Carl put up the money to pay Rossman , and other things , and took over the ranch to square it . 
Anyway , I haven't got anything to say about the business end of the deal . 
I've got permission to boss you , though , and I'm sure going to do it to a fare you well . 
He cast a sidelong glance down at her . 
He could not see anything of her face except the droop of her mouth , a bit of her cheek , and her chin that promised firmness . 
Her mouth did not change expression in the slightest degree until she moved her lips in speech . 
What is there to boss me about ? The world has stopped . 
Her voice was steady , and it was also sullen . 
Right there is where the need of bossing begins . 
You can't stay in town any longer . 
I'm going to work for Carl , from now on . 
You're going out there to the Bar Nothing He felt a stiffening of the muscles under his fingers , and answered calmly the signal of rebellion . 
Sure , that's the place for you . 
Your dad and Carl fixed that up between them , anyway . 
That's to be your home so my saying so is just an extra rope to bring you along peaceable . 
You're going to stay at the Bar Nothing . 
And I'm going to make a top hand outa you , Jean . 
I'm going to teach you to shoot and rope and punch cows and ride , till there won't be a girl in the United States to equal you . 
What for ? Jean still had an air of sullen apathy . 
That won't help dad any . 
It'll start the world moving again . 
Lite forced himself to cheerfulness in the face of his own despondency . 
It's us that have stopped . 
We've come to a blind pocket , you might say , in the trail we've been taking through life . 
We've got to start in a new place , that's all . 
Now , I know you're dead game , Jean at least I know you used to be , and I'm gambling on school not taking that outa you . 
You're maybe thinking about going away off somewhere among strangers but that wouldn't do at all . 
Your dad always counted on keeping you away from town life . 
I'm just going to ride herd on you , Jean , and see to it that you go on the way your dad wanted you to go . 
He can't be on the job , and so I'm what you might call his foreman . 
I know how he wants you to grow up I'm going to make it my business to grow you according to directions . 
He saw a little quirk of her lips , at that , and was vastly encouraged thereby . 
Has it struck you that you're liable to have your hands full ? she asked him with a certain drawl that Jean had possessed since she first learned to express herself in words . 
Sure ! I'll likely have both hand and my hat full of trouble . 
But she's going to be done according to contract . 
Dad never did that you know he never did it . 
She turned upon him fiercely . 
Do you think he did ? she demanded , her eyes boring into his . 
Now , that's a bright question to be asking me , ain't it ? Lite rebuked . 
That's a real bright , sensible question , I must say ! I reckon you ought to be stood in the corner for that , but I'll let it go this time . 
Only don't never spring anything like that again . 
I could doubt God Himself , right now , she gritted through her teeth . 
Well , don't doubt me , unless you want a scrap on your hands , Lite warned . 
I'm sure ashamed of you . 
We'll stop here at the stable and get the horses . 
You can ride sideways as far as the Allens' , and get your riding skirt and come on . 
The sooner you are on top of a horse , the quicker you're going to come outa that state of mind . 
It was pitifully amusing to see Lite Avery attempt to bully any one , especially Jean , who might almost be called Lite's religion . 
His method of comforting her and easing her through the first stage of black despair was unorthodox , but it was effective . 
He set the pace , and he set it for speed . 
There was color in her cheeks , and the dullness was gone from her eyes when she returned his glance inquiringly . 
The droop of her lips was no longer the droop of a weak yielding to sorrow , but rather the beginning of a brave facing of the future . 
Lite managed a grin that did not look forced . 
I'll make a real range hand outa you yet , he announced confidently . 
I'll make a lady of you yet , darned if I don't . 
At that Jean laughed unexpectedly . 
Lite drew a long breath of relief . 
JEAN The still loneliness of desertion held fast the clutter of sheds and old stables roofed with dirt and rotting hay . 
The melancholy of emptiness hung like an invisible curtain before the sprawling house with warped , weather blackened shingles , and sagging window frames . 
This was Jean's room , held sacred to her own needs and uses , in defiance of the dreariness that compassed it close . 
A square of old rag carpet covered the center of the floor , and beyond its border the warped boards were painted a dull , pale green . 
The walls were ugly with a cheap , flowered paper that had done its best to fade into inoffensive neutral tints . 
Jean had helped , where she could , by covering the intricate rose pattern with old prints cut from magazines and with cheap , pretty souvenirs gleaned here and there and hoarded jealously . 
And there were books , which caught the eyes and held them even to forgetfulness of the paper . 
You would laugh at Jean's room . 
First you would notice an old wooden cradle , painted blue , that stood in a corner . 
Hanging directly over the cradle by a stirrup was Jean's first saddle , a cheap pigskin affair with harsh straps and buckles , that her father had sent East for . 
Jean never had liked that saddle , even when it was new . 
She used to stand perfectly still while her father buckled it on the little buckskin pony she rode and she would laugh when he picked her up and tossed her into the seat . 
A kit fox found it one day that is how the edge of the cantle came to have that queer , chewed look . 
There were magazines everywhere and you may be sure that Jean had read them all , even to the soap advertisements and the sanitary kitchens and the vacuum cleaners . 
There was an old couch with a coarse , Navajo rug thrown over it , and three or four bright cushions that looked much used . 
Half the slats were broken . 
There was a guitar and an old , old sewing machine with a reloading shotgun outfit spread out upon it . 
There was a desk made of boxes , and on the desk lay a shot loaded quirt that more than one rebellious cow horse knew to its sorrow . 
There was a rawhide lariat that had parted its strands in a tussle with a stubborn cow . 
Jean meant to fix the broken end of the longest piece and use it for a tie rope , some day when she had time , and thought of it . 
Somewhere in the desk were verses which Jean had written , dozens of them , and not nearly as bad as you might think . 
On the whole , the room was contradictory . 
But Jean herself was somewhat contradictory , and the place fitted her . 
Here was where she spent those hours when her absence from the Bar Nothing was left unexplained to any one save Lite . 
She never opened the door into the kitchen . 
There was another just beyond the sewing machine , that gave an intimate look into the face of the bluff which formed that side of the coulee wall . 
There were hollyhocks along the path that led to this door , and stunted rosebushes which were kept alive with much mysterious assistance in the way of water and cultivation . 
The rest of the house might be rat ridden and desolate . 
There was no stock anywhere in the coulee , and she would save a little trouble by leaving the gate open until she came out on her way home . 
She stepped aside to inspect the meadow lark's nest cunningly hidden under a wild rosebush , and then mounted and went on to the stable , still whistling carelessly . 
She turned Pard into the shed where she invariably left him when she came to the Lazy A , and went on up the grass grown path to the house . 
Then she knew and she stopped full and stared down at the loose sand just before the warped kitchen steps . 
There were footprints in the path , alien footprints and they pointed toward that forbidden door into the kitchen of gruesome memory . 
Jean looked up frowning , and saw that the door had been opened and closed again carelessly . 
And upon the top step , strange feet had pressed a little caked earth carried from the trail where she stood . 
There were the small heeled , pointed prints of a woman's foot , and there were the larger tracks of a man , a man of the town . 
Jean stood with her quirt dangling loosely from her wrist and glanced back toward the stables and down the coulee . 
She completely forgot that she wanted a rhyme for hills . 
She twitched her shoulders and went around to the door leading into her own room . 
The door stood wide open when it should have been closed . 
Inside there were evidences of curious inspection . 
She went hot with an unreasoning anger when she saw the wide open door into the kitchen first of all she went over and closed that door , her lips pressed tightly together . 
To her it was as though some wanton hand had forced up the lid of a coffin where slept her dead . 
She stood with her back against the door and looked around the room , breathing quickly . 
She felt the woman's foolish amusement at the old cradle with the rag doll tucked under the patchwork quilt , and at her pitiful attempts at adorning the tawdry walls . 
Without having seen more than the prints of her shoes in the path , Jean hated the woman who had blundered in here and had looked and laughed . 
She hated the man who had come with the woman . 
She went over to her desk and stood staring at the litter . 
A couple of sheets of cheap tablet paper , whereon Jean had scribbled some verses of the range , lay across the quirt she had forgotten on her last trip . 
They had prowled among the papers , even ! They had respected nothing of hers , had considered nothing sacred from their inquisitiveness . 
Jean picked up the paper and read the verses through , and her cheeks reddened slowly . 
Then she discovered something else that turned them white with fresh anger . 
Jean had an old ledger wherein she kept a sporadic kind of a diary which she had entitled More or Less the Record of my Sins . 
Some one else had read , however at least the book had been pulled out of its place and inspected , along with her other personal belongings . 
She did not say anything . 
More dusty search produced a hasp and some staples , and then she went back and nailed two planks across the door which opened into the kitchen . 
Hammer in hand she backed away and read the words judicially , her head tilted sidewise ONLY SNEAKS GO WHERE THEY ARE NOT WANTED . 
ARE YOU A SNEAK ? The hint was plain enough . 
She took the hammer back to the shop and led Pard out of the stable and down to the gate , her eyes watching suspiciously the trail for tracks of trespassers . 
She closed the gate so thoroughly with baling wire twisted about a stake that the next comer would have troubles of his own in getting it open again . 
No groping for rhythmic phrasings to fit the beauty of the land she lived in Jean was in the mood to combat anything that came in her way . 
There were no ranches out this way . 
The land was too broken and too barren for anything but grazing , so that she felt fairly sure of having her solitude unspoiled by anything human . 
Solitude was what she wanted . 
And then she came up out of a hollow upon a little ridge and saw three horsemen down in the next coulee . 
She pulled up and watched them , puzzled for a minute at their presence and behavior . 
This looked queer to Jean , accustomed all her life to seeing men go calmly about their business upon the range , careless of observation because they had nothing to conceal . 
She urged Pard a little nearer , keeping well behind the bushes still , and leaned forward over the saddle horn , watching the men closely . 
Their next performance was enlightening , but incredibly bold for the business they were engaged in . 
One of the three got off his horse and started a little fire of dry sticks under a convenient ledge . 
Another untied the rope from his saddle , widened the loop , swung it twice over his head and flipped it neatly over the head of a calf . 
Jean did not wait to see any more than that she did not need to see any more to know them for rustlers . 
Brazen rustlers , indeed , to go about their work in broad daylight like that . 
Whether it did or not , Jean was not one to ride away and leave range thieves calmly at work . 
She hurried as much as she dared . 
What she would do after she had ridden upon them , she did not quite know . 
So she came presently around the turn that revealed them to her . 
They were still fussing with the calf , or it may have been another one , and did not see her until she was close upon them . 
The three stood up and stared at her , their jaws sagging a little at the suddenness of her appearance , and their eyes upon the gun . 
Jean held it steady , and she had all the look of a person who knew exactly what she meant , and who meant business . 
She eyed them curiously , noting the fact that they were strangers , and cowboys , though of a type that she had never seen on the range . 
She glanced sharply at the beaded , buckskin jacket of one of them , and the high , wide brimmed sombrero of another . 
Well , she said at length , turn your backs , you've had a good look at me . 
Turn your backs , I said . 
Now , drop those guns on the ground . 
Walk straight ahead of you till you come to that bank . 
You needn't look around I'm still here . 
She leaned a little , sending Pard slowly forward until he was close to the six shooters lying on the ground . 
She glanced at the cattle huddled in the narrow mouth of the draw behind them , and saw that they were indeed Bar Nothing and Lazy A stock . 
The horses the three had been riding she did not remember to have seen before . 
Jean hesitated , not quite knowing what she ought to do next . 
So far she had acted merely upon instincts born of her range life and training the rest would not be so easy . 
With her boot toe she kicked them close together , and stooped and picked one up . 
The last man in the line turned toward her protestingly , and Jean fired so close to his head that he ducked . 
She frowned down at the rustler's gun in her hand . 
There was something queer about that gun . 
Hey , Burns , called the man in the middle , without venturing to turn his head , come out of there and explain to the lady . 
This ain't in the scene ! Oh , yes , it is ! a voice retorted chucklingly . 
It was just some trick , very likely , meant to throw her off her guard . 
There were more than the three , and the fourth man probably had her covered with a gun . 
But she would not turn her head toward his voice , for all that . 
The gentleman called Burns may walk out into the open and explain , if he can , she announced sharply , her eyes upon the three whom she had captured so easily . 
She heard the throaty chuckle again , from somewhere to the left of her . 
She saw the three men in front of her look at each other with sickly grins . 
She felt that the whole situation was swinging against her , that she had somehow blundered and made herself ridiculous . 
She heard a rattle of bushes and the soft crunching of footsteps coming toward her . 
Still she would not turn her head , nor would she lower the gun if it was a trick , they should not say that it had been successful . 
It's all right , sister , said the chuckling voice presently , almost at her elbow . 
This isn't any real , honest to John bandit party . 
We're just movie people , and we're making pictures . 
He stopped , but Jean did not move or make any reply whatever , so he went on . 
I must say I appreciate the compliment you paid us in taking it for the real dope , sister Don't call me sister again . 
Jean flashed him a sidelong glance of resentment . 
You've already done it twice too often . 
Come around in front where I can see you , if you're what you claim to be . 
Well , don't shoot , and I will , soothed the chuckling voice . 
My , my , it certainly is a treat to see a real , live Prairie Queen once . 
Beats making them to order We'll omit the superfluous chatter , please . 
Jean looked him over and tagged him mentally with one glance . 
Perfectly harmless , but Jean would not yield to the extent of softening her glance or her manner one hundredth of a degree . 
The more harmless these people , the more ridiculous she had made herself appear . 
The chuckly one grinned and removed his soft gray hat , held it against his generous equator , and bowed so low as to set him puffing a little afterward . 
His eyes , however , appraised her shrewdly . 
Omitting all superfluous chatter , as you suggest , I am Robert Grant Burns , of the Great Western Film Company . 
These men are also members of that company . 
He was about to indulge in what he would have termed a little kidding of the girl , but wisely refrained after another shrewd reading of her face . 
Jean looked at the three men , who had taken it for granted that they might leave their intimate study of the clay bank and were coming toward her . 
Did you get permission to haze our cattle around like this ? she asked abruptly , to hide how humiliated she really felt . 
Just for a few scenes , I did not consider it necessary . 
Plainly , the chuckly Mr. Burns was taken at a disadvantage . 
You are making rather free with another man's personal property , when you use my uncle's cattle for your rustling scenes . 
Your uncle ? Well , I shall be very glad to make some arrangement with your uncle , if that is customary . 
Sorry to have infringed upon your property rights , I am sure . 
Mr. Burns did not sound so chuckly now but that may have been because the three picture rustlers were quite openly pleased at the predicament of their director . 
She tossed the blank loaded gun back upon the ground and turned to her horse . 
It does seem hard to impress it upon city people that we savages do have a few rights in this country . 
We should have policemen stationed on every hilltop , I suppose , and No Trespassing' signs planted along every cow trail . 
Even then I doubt whether we could convince some people that we are perfectly human and that we actually do own property here . 
While she drawled the last biting sentences , she stuck her toe in the stirrup and went up into the saddle as easily as any cowpuncher in the country could have done . 
Robert Grant Burns had never , in all his experience in directing Western pictures , seen a girl mount a horse with such unconscious ease of every movement . 
Jean twitched the reins and turned towards him , looking down at the little group with unfriendly eyes . 
I don't want to seem inhospitable or unaccommodating , Mr. Burns , she told him , but I fear that I must take these cattle back home with me . 
You probably will not want to use them any longer . 
Mr. Burns did not say whether she was right or wrong in her conjecture . 
Rather , he made no reply to Jean , but he waved his three rustlers back , retreating himself to where the bank stopped them . 
And he turned toward the bushes that had at first hidden him from Jean , waved his hand in an imperative gesture , and called guardedly through cupped palms . 
Take that ! All you can get of it ! Which goes far to show why he was considered one of the best directors the Great Western Film Company had in its employ . 
So Jean unconsciously made a picture which caused the eyes of Robert Grant Burns to glisten while he watched . 
Cattle are stubborn things at best , and this little bunch seemed determined to seek the higher slopes . 
She would not have glanced toward Robert Grant Burns to save her life , and she did not hear him saying Great ! Great stuff ! Get it all , Pete . 
My Lord ! You wouldn't get stuff like that in ten years . 
I wish Gay could handle herself like that in the saddle , but there ain't a leading woman in the business to day that could put that over the way she's doing it . 
By George ! Say , Gil , you get on your horse and ride after her , and find out where she lives . 
We can't work any more now , anyway she's gone off with the cattle . 
And , say ! You don't want to let her get a sight of you , or she might take a shot at you . 
At that time and in that locality he was quite anxious that she should not discover him . 
Gil was not such a bad fellow , even though he did play heavies in all the pictures which Robert Grant Burns directed . 
A villain he was on the screen , and a bad one . 
Many's the man he had killed as cold bloodedly as the Board of Censorship would permit . 
But in his everyday life , Gil Huntley was very good looking , very good natured , and very harmless . 
His position and his salary as heavy in the Great Western Company he owed chiefly to his good acting and his thick eyebrows and his facility for making himself look treacherous and mean . 
He followed Jean because the boss told him to do so , in the first place . 
In the second place , he followed her because he was even more interested in her than his director had been , and he hoped to have a chance to talk with her . 
Gil did not take the time or trouble to analyze the difference , but he knew that he was glad the boss had not sent Johnny or Bill in his place . 
He grinned when he saw her turn the cattle loose down the very next coulee and with a final flip of her rope loop toward the hindermost cow , ride on without them . 
He should have ridden in haste then to tell Robert Grant Burns that the cattle could be brought back in twenty minutes or so and the picture making go on as planned . 
It was not likely that the girl would come back they could go on with their work and get permission from the girl's uncle afterward . 
But he did not turn and hurry back . 
Without mirror or cold cream , he was not very successful , so that he rode on somewhat spotted in appearance and looking even more sinister than before . 
But he was much more comfortable in his mind , which meant a good deal in the interview which he hoped by some means to bring about . 
With Jean a couple of hundred yards in advance , they crossed a little flat so bare of concealment that Gil Huntley was worried for fear she might look back and discover him . 
But she did not turn her head , and he rode on more confidently . 
Gil , knowing very little of the ways of the range folk , and less of the country , kicked his horse into a swifter pace and galloped after her . 
Fifty yards beyond the currant bushes he heard a sound and looked back and there was Jean , riding out from her hiding place , and coming after him almost at a run . 
While he was trying to decide what to do about it , she overtook him rather , the wide loop of her rope overtook him . 
He ducked , but the loop settled over his head and shoulders and pulled tight about the chest . 
Jean took two turns of the rope around the saddle horn and then looked him over critically . 
In spite of herself , she smiled a little at his face , streaked still with grease paint , and at his eyes staring at her from between heavily penciled lids . 
That's what you get for following , she said , after a minute of staring at each other . 
To be haughtily indignant with this honest eyed , embarrassed young fellow with the streaky face and heavily penciled eyelids was out of the question . 
She laughed again and rode over to where the hat had lodged . 
Gil Huntley , to save himself from being dragged ignominiously from the saddle , kicked his horse and kept pace with her . 
Jean leaned far over and picked up the hat , and examined it with amusement . 
If you could just live up to your hat , my , wouldn't you be a villain , though ! she commented , in a soft , drawling voice . 
You don't look so terribly blood thirsty without it I just guess I'd better keep it for a while . 
It would make a dandy waste basket . 
Do you know , if your face were clean , I think you'd look almost human , for an outlaw . 
She started on up the trail , nonchalantly leading her captive by the rope . 
Gil Huntley could have wriggled an arm loose and freed himself , but he did not . 
He wanted to see what she was going to do with him . 
He grinned when she had her back turned toward him , but he did not say anything for fear of spoiling the joke or offending her in some way . 
So presently Jean began to feel silly , and the joke lost its point and seemed inane and weak . 
She turned back , threw off the loop that bound his arms to his sides , and coiled the rope . 
I wish you play acting people would keep out of the country , she said impatiently . 
Twice you've made me act ridiculous . 
I don't know what in the world you wanted to follow me for , and I don't care . 
Whatever it was , it isn't going to do you one particle of good , so you needn't go on doing it . 
She looked at him full , refused to meet half way the friendliness of his eyes , tossed the hat toward him , and wheeled her horse away . 
Good by , she said shortly , and touched Pard with the spurs . 
Where'd you say that spring was , Gil ? We'll eat before we do anything else . 
One thing about this blamed country is we don't have to be afraid of the light . 
While he waited for the trickle to yield him a drink , he cocked his head sidewise and looked up quizzically at his heavy . 
You must have come within speaking distance , Gil , he guessed shrewdly . 
Got any make up along ? You look like a mild case of the measles , right now . 
What did she have to say , anyhow ? Nothing , said Gil shortly . 
I didn't talk to her at all . 
I didn't want to run my horse to death trying to say hello when she didn't want it that way . 
Huh ! grunted Robert Grant Burns unbelievingly , and fished a bit of grass out of the cup with his little finger . 
He drank and said no more . 
Easy enough to locate the outfit , by the cattle brand . 
What was it ? Whereupon Robert Grant Burns rolled his eyes helplessly toward Gil Huntley . 
I noticed it at the time , but what was that brand , Gil ? And Gil , if you would believe me , did not remember , either . 
While he drew one after the other , he did a little thinking . 
Must have been the Bar Nothing , or else the Lazy A cattle you got hold of , he concluded , pointing to the pencil marks on the margin of the paper . 
They range down in there , and Jean Douglas answers your description of the girl , as far as looks go . 
She ain't all that wild and dangerous , though . 
Don't anybody live there now . 
It's been left alone ever since the trouble out there . 
House and barns and corrals , everything you want . 
He leaned closer with a confidential tone creeping into his voice , for Robert Grant Burns and his company were profitable guests and should be given every inducement to remain in the country . 
It ain't but fifteen miles out there you could go back and forth in your machine , easy . 
You go out and see Carl Douglas , anyway won't do no harm . 
You offer him a little something for the use of the Lazy A he'll take anything that looks like money . 
Take it from me , that's the place you want to take your pictures in . 
And , say ! You want a written agreement with Carl . 
Have the use of his stock included , or he'll tax you extra . 
Have everything included , advised the old cowman , with a sweep of his palm and his voice lowered discreetly . 
Won't need to cost you much , not if you don't give him any encouragement to expect much . 
Carl's that kind , good fellow enough , but he wants the big end . 
I know him , you bet ! And , say ! Don't let on to Carl that I steered you out there . 
And , say ! Real enthusiasm for the idea began to lighten his eyes . 
If you want good range dope , right out there's where you can sure find it . 
You play up to them Bar Nothing boys Lite Avery and Joe Morris and Red . 
You ought to get some great pictures out there , man . 
They talked a long while after that . 
Gradually it dawned upon Burns that he had heard of the Lazy A ranch before , though not by that euphonious title . 
Along every trail which owns certain obstacles to swift , easy passing , there are places commonly spoken of as that place . 
Even then they stuck fast , as often as not , if the load were heavy , though Bar Nothing drivers gaged their loads with that hollow in mind . 
If they could pull through there without mishap , they might feel sure of having no trouble elsewhere . 
Robert Grant Burns had come into the hollow unsuspectingly . 
He wanted to take a few exterior ranch house scenes that day , for Robert Grant Burns was far more energetic than his bulk would lead one to suppose . 
He had Pete Lowry , his camera man , in the seat beside him . 
At the top of the hill which guarded the deceptive hollow , Robert Grant Burns grinned over his shoulder at his character woman . 
Wait till we start back I'll know the road then , and we'll do some traveling ! he promised darkly , and laid his toe lightly on the brake . 
It pleased him to be considered a dare devil driver that is why he always drove whatever machine carried him . 
They went lurching down the curving grade into the hollow , and struck the patch of sand that had worn out the vocabularies of more eloquent men than he . 
Robert Grant Burns fed more gas , and the engine kicked and groaned , and sent the wheels bur rowing like moles to where the sand was deepest . 
Axles under , they stuck fast . 
Pete Lowry always ducked his head lower over the jack when he saw the heaving of flesh which heralded these resting times , so that the boss could not catch him laughing . 
Lee thought that it would take about that many mules to pull them out . 
The two riders pulled up , smiling pityingly , just as well mounted riders invariably smile upon stalled automobilists . 
This was not the first machine that had come to grief in that hollow , though they could not remember ever to have seen one sunk deeper in the sand . 
I guess you wouldn't refuse a little help , about now , Lite observed casually to Lee , who was most in evidence . 
We wouldn't refuse a little , but a lot is what we need , Lee amended glumly . 
Any ranch within forty miles of here ? We need about twelve good horses , I should say . 
Lee's experience with sand had been unhappy , and his knowledge of what one good horse could do was slight . 
Shall we snake 'em out , Jean ? Lite asked her , as if he himself were absolutely indifferent to their plight . 
Oh , I suppose we might as well . 
We'll be blocking the trail a good long while if we stay here till you move us , snapped Lee , who was rather sensitive to tones . 
Then Robert Grant Burns gave a heave and a wriggle , and came up for air and a look around . 
He had been composing a monologue upon the subject of sand , and he had not noticed that strange voices were speaking on the other side of the machine . 
Hello , sis How de do , Miss , he greeted Jean guardedly , with a hasty revision of the terms when he saw how her eyebrows pinched together . 
I wonder if you could tell us where we can find teams to pull us out of this mess . 
I don't believe this old junk wagon is ever going to do it herself . 
How do you do , Mr. Burns ? Lite and I offered to take you out on solid ground , but your man seemed to think we couldn't do it . 
What man was that ? Wasn't me , anyway . 
I think you can do just about anything you start out to do , if you ask me . 
Thank you , chilled Jean , and permitted Pard to back away from his approach . 
Say , you're some rider , he praised tactlessly , and got no reply whatever . 
Jean merely turned and rode around to where Lite eased his long legs in the stirrups and waited her pleasure . 
Shall we help them out , Lite ? she asked distinctly . 
I think perhaps we ought to it's a long walk to town . 
I guess we better won't take but a minute to tie on , Lite agreed , his fingers dropping to his coiled rope . 
Seems queer to me that folks should want to ride in them things when there's plenty of good horses in the country . 
No accounting for tastes , Lite , Jean replied cheerfully . 
If that thin man will start the engine , he doesn't weigh more than half as much as you do , Mr. Burns , we'll pull you out on solid ground . 
And if you have occasion to cross this hollow again , I advise you to keep out there to the right . 
There's a little sod to give your tires a better grip . 
It's rough , but you could make it all right if you drive carefully , and the bunch of you get out and walk . 
Don't try to keep around on the ridge there's a deep washout on each side , so you couldn't possibly make it . 
We can't with the horses , even . 
Jean did not know that there was a note of superiority in her voice when she spoke the last sentence , but her listeners winced at it . 
Only Pete Lowry grinned while he climbed obediently into the machine to advance his spark and see that the gears were in neutral . 
Don't crank up till we're ready ! Lite expostulated . 
These cayuses of ours are pretty sensible , and they'll stand for a whole lot but there's a limit . 
Wait till I get the ropes fixed , before you start the engine . 
And the rest of you all be ready to give the wheels a lift . 
When Jean dismounted and hooked the stirrup over the horn so that she could tighten the cinch , the eyes of Robert Grant Burns glistened at the picture stuff she made . 
He glanced eloquently at Pete , and Pete gave a twisted smile and a pantomime of turning the camera crank whereat Robert Grant Burns shook his head regretfully and groaned again . 
Muriel Gay was a conscientious worker who tried hard to please her director . 
Sometimes it seemed to her that her director demanded impossibilities of her that he was absolutely soulless where picture effects were concerned . 
Her riding had all along been a subject of discord between them . 
I've tied my rope , Lite , Jean drawled , with a little laugh at what might happen . 
Lite turned his face toward her . 
You better not , be warned . 
Things are liable to start a popping when that engine wakes up . 
Well , then I'll want both hands for Pard . 
I've taken a couple of half hitches , anyway . 
You folks want to be ready at the wheels , Lite directed , waiving the argument . 
When we start , you all want to heave ho together . 
Good team work will do it . 
All set ? he called to Jean , when Pete Lowry bent his back to start the engine . 
Business'll be pickin' up , directly ! All set , replied Jean cheerfully . 
It seemed then that everything began to start at once , and to start in different directions . 
The engine snorted and pounded so that the whole machine shook with ague . 
When Pete jumped in and threw in the clutch , there was a backfire that sounded like the crack of doom . 
The two horses went wild , as their riders had half expected them to do . 
They lunged away from the horror behind them , and the slack ropes tightened with a jerk . 
Then Pard looked back and saw the thing coming after him , and tried to bolt . 
When he found that he could not , because of the rope , he bucked as he had not done since he was a half broken broncho . 
That started Lite Avery's horse to pitching and Pete , absorbed in watching what would have made a great picture , forgot to shut off the gas . 
Don't you cut my rope , Jean warned , when she saw him come plunging toward her , knife in hand . 
At long rifle range , he circled and faced the thing that had scared him so , and after a little Jean persuaded him to go back as far as the trail . 
Nearer he would not stir , so she waited there for Lite . 
Never even thanked us , Lite grumbled when he came up , his mouth stretched in a wide smile . 
That girl with the kalsomine on her face made remarks about folks butting in . 
And the fat man talked into his double chin dunno what all he was saying . 
Here's what's left of your rope . 
I'll get you another one , Jean . 
I was afraid that gazabo was going to run over you , is why I cut it . 
What's the matter over there ? Aren't they glad they're out of the sand ? Jean held her horse quiet while she studied the buzzing group . 
I guess we done some damage . 
Lite grinned and watched them over his shoulder . 
You needn't go any further with me , Lite . 
That fat man's the one that had the cattle . 
I am going over to the ranch for awhile , but don't tell Aunt Ella . 
She turned to ride on up the hill toward the Lazy A , but stopped for another look at the perturbed motorists . 
Well anyway , we snaked them out of the sand , didn't we , Lite ? We sure did , Lite chuckled . 
They don't seem thankful , but I guess they ain't any worse off than they was before . 
Anyway , it serves them right . 
They've no business here acting fresh . 
CHAPTER VIII JEAN SPOILS SOMETHING Jean found the padlock key where she had hidden it under a rock ten feet from the door , and let herself into her room . 
She wandered aimlessly around the room , brushing the dust from her books and straightening a tiny fold in the cradle quilt . 
She wiped and polished the stamped leather with a painstaking tenderness that had in it a good deal of yearning , and finally left it with a gesture of hopelessness . 
She went next to her desk and fumbled the quirt that lay there still . 
Then she pulled out the old ledger , picked up a pencil , and began to write , sitting on the arm of an old , cane seated chair while she did so . 
She wrote rapidly , and she did not always take the trouble to finish her sentences properly , as if she never could quite keep pace with her thoughts . 
So this is what that page held when finally she slammed the book shut and slid it back into the desk I don't know what's the matter with me lately . 
I feel as if I wanted to shoot somebody , or rob a bank or run away I guess it's the old trouble nagging at me . 
I KNOW dad never did it . 
I don't know why , but I know it just the same and I know Uncle Carl knows it too . 
I'd like to take out his brain and put it into some scientific machine that would squeeze out his thoughts hope it wouldn't hurt him I'd give him ether , maybe . 
What I want is money enough to buy back this place and the stock . 
I don't believe Uncle Carl spent as much defending dad as he claims he did not enough to take the whole ranch anyway . 
If I had money I'd find Art Osgood if I had to hunt from Alaska to Africa don't believe he went to Alaska at all . 
If I could find Art Osgood I believe I could make him tell I know he knows something , even if he didn't do it himself . 
I don't blame Aunt Ella so much but thank goodness , I can do without a shoulder to weep on , anyway . 
What's life for if you've got to spend your days hopping round and round in a cage . 
It wouldn't be a cage if I could have dad back I'd be doing things for him all the time and that would make life worth while . 
Poor dad four more years is I can't think about it . 
I'll go crazy if I do It was there that she stopped and slammed the book shut , and pushed it back out of sight in the desk . 
Some day , it was predicted , the benchland would be cut into squares and farmed , some day when the government brought to reality a long talked of irrigation project . 
But in the meantime , the land lay unfenced and free . 
One could look far away to the north , and at certain times see the smoke of passing trains through the valley off there . 
One could look south to the distant river bluffs , and east and west to the mountains . 
Jean often climbed the bluff just for the wide outlook she gained . 
The cage did not seem so small when she could stand up there and tire her eyes with looking . 
Life did not seem quite so purposeless , and she could nearly always find little whispers of hope in the winds that blew there . 
She walked aimlessly and yet with a subconscious purpose for ten minutes or so , and her face was turned directly toward the eastern hills . 
Her eyes cleared of their troubled look and grew dreamy . 
Her mouth lost its tenseness and softened to a half smile . 
She was not looking now into the past that was so full of heartbreak , but into the future as hope pictured it for her . 
She was seeing the Lazy A alive again and all astir with the business of life and her father saddling Sioux and riding out to look after the stock . 
She was seeing herself riding with him , or else cooking the things he liked best for his dinner when he came back hungry . 
She sat there for a long , long while and never moved . 
A sparrow hawk swooped down quite close to Jean and then shot upward with a little brown bird in its claws , and startled her out of her castle building . 
But she did not move , and the hawk circled and came back on his way to the nesting place in the trees along the creek below . 
He came quite close , and Jean shot him as he lifted his wings for a higher flight . 
The hawk dropped head foremost to the grass and lay there crumpled and quiet . 
Jean put back her gun in its holster and went over to where the hawk lay . 
Lite had taught her to shoot like that , straight and quick . 
Jean proved by her scant interest in the hawk how well she had learned the lesson , and how sure she was of hitting where she aimed . 
The little brown bird had been gashed in the breast by a sharp talon . 
Jean was much concerned over the wound , even though it did not reach any vital organ . 
She was afraid of septic poisoning , she told the bird but added comfortingly There you needn't worry one minute over that . 
I'm almost sure there's a bottle of peroxide down at the house , that isn't spoiled . 
We'll go and put some on it right away and then we'll go bug hunting . 
So it was not until she was at the spring , looking at the moist earth there for fat bugs for the bird , that she had any inkling of visitors . 
Then she heard voices and went quickly around the corner of the house toward the sound . 
It seemed to her that she was lately fated to come plump into the middle of that fat Mr. Burns' unauthorized picture making . 
Close beside her the two women were standing in animated argument which they carried on in undertones with many gestures to point their meaning . 
Hey , you're in the scene ! called Pete Lowry , and abruptly stopped counting and turning the crank . 
You're in the scene , sister . 
Step over here to one side , will you ? The fat director waved his pink cameoed hand impatiently . 
An old bench had been placed beside the house , under a window . 
Jean backed a step and sat down upon the bench , and looked from one to the other . 
The two women glanced at her wide eyed and moved away with mutual embracings . 
Did I spoil something ? she inquired casually , and watched curiously the pulling of many feet of narrow film from the camera . 
About fifteen feet of good scene , Pete Lowry told her dryly , but with that queer , half smile twisting his lips . 
But what she did was to cross her feet and murmur a sympathetic sentence to the little brown bird . 
Inwardly she resented deeply this bold trespass of Robert Grant Burns but she meant to guard against making herself ridiculous again . 
She meant to be sure of her ground before she ordered them off . 
The memory of her humiliation before the supposed rustlers was too vivid to risk a repetition of the experience . 
When you're thoroughly rested , said Robert Grant Burns , in the tone that would have shriveled the soul of one of his actors , we'd like to make that scene over . 
I am pretty tired , she said in that soft , drawly voice that could hide so effectually her meaning . 
She leaned her head against the wall and gave a luxurious sigh , and crossed her feet the other way . 
She believed that she knew why Robert Grant Burns was growing so red in the face and stepping about so uneasily , and why the women were looking at her like that . 
Very likely they expected her to prove herself crude and uncivilized , but she meant to disappoint them even while she made them all the trouble she could . 
She pushed back her hat until its crown rested against the rough boards , and cuddled the little brown bird against her cheek again , and talked to it caressingly . 
Though she seemed unconscious of his presence , she heard every word that Robert Grant Burns was muttering to himself . 
Some of the words were plain , man sized swearing , if she were any judge of language . 
It occurred to her that she really ought to go and find that peroxide , but she could not forego the pleasure of irritating this man . 
I always supposed that fat men were essentially sweet tempered , she observed to the world in general , when the mutterings ceased for a moment . 
Gee ! I'd like to make that , Pete Lowry said in an undertone to his assistant . 
But she looked at him curiously , with an impulse to ask questions about what he was doing with that queer looking camera , and how he could inject motion into photography . 
While she watched , he drew out a narrow , gray strip of film and made mysterious markings upon it with the pencil , which he afterwards thrust absent mindedly behind his ear . 
He closed a small door in the side of the camera , placed his palm over the lens and turned the little crank several times around . 
Then he looked at Jean , and from her to the director . 
Robert Grant Burns gave a sweeping , downward gesture with both hands , a gesture which his company knew well , and came toward Jean . 
You may not know it , he began in a repressed tone , but we're in a hurry . 
We've got work to do . 
We ain't here on any pleasure excursion , and you'll be doing me a favor by getting out of the scene so we can go on with our work . 
Jean sat still upon the bench and looked at him . 
I suppose so but why should I be doing you favors ? You haven't seemed to appreciate them , so far . 
Of course , I dislike to seem disobliging , or anything like that , but your tone and manner would not make any one very enthusiastic about pleasing you , Mr. Burns . 
In fact , I don't see why you aren't apologizing for being here , instead of ordering me about as if I worked for you . 
This bench is my bench . 
This ranch is where I have lived nearly all my life . 
The two women exclaimed under their breaths to each other and moved farther away , as if from an impending explosion . 
The assistant camera man gurgled and turned his back abruptly . 
Lee Milligan , wandering up from the stables , stopped and stared . 
No one , within the knowledge of those present , had ever spoken so to Robert Grant Burns no one had ever dreamed of speaking thus to him . 
They had seen him when rage had mastered him and for slighter cause it was not an experience that one would care to repeat . 
Robert Grant Burns walked up to Jean as if he meant to lift her from the bench and hurl her by sheer brute force out of his way . 
He stopped so close to her that his shadow covered her . 
She was looking at the dainty beak of the little brown bird , and was telling herself that she could not be bullied into losing control of herself . 
She forced herself to observe the wonderfully delicate feathers on the bird's head . 
It seemed more content now in the little nest her two palms had made for it . 
Its heart did not flutter so much , and she fancied that the tiny , bead like eyes were softer in their bright regard of her . 
Robert Grant Burns came to a pause . 
Jean sensed that he was waiting for some reply , and she looked up at him . 
His hand was just reaching out to her shoulder , but it dropped instead to his coat pocket and fumbled for his handkerchief . 
Her eyes strayed to Pete Lowry . 
He was looking upward with that measuring glance which belongs to his profession , estimating the length of time the light would be suitable for the scene he had focussed . 
She followed his glance to where the shadow of the kitchen had crept closer to the bench . 
I should dearly love to watch you work , she said to him frankly . 
But you see how it is Mr. Burns hasn't got hold of himself yet . 
How much longer will it be before this bench is in the shade ? she asked him next . 
Half an hour , maybe a little longer . 
Pete glanced again anxiously upward . 
And how long do these spasms usually last ? Jean's head tilted toward Robert Grant Burns as impersonally as if she were indicating a horse with colic . 
But the camera man had gone as far as was wise , if he cared to continue working for Burns , and he made no reply whatever . 
So Jean turned her attention to the man whose bulk shaded her from the sun , and whose remarks would have been wholly unforgivable had she not chosen to ignore them . 
If you really are anxious to go on making pictures , why don't you stop all that ranting and be sensible about it ? she asked him . 
You can't bully me into being afraid of you , you know . 
And really , you are making an awful spectacle of yourself , going on like that . 
Listen here ! Are you going to get off that bench and out of the scene ? By a tremendous effort Robert Grant Burns spoke that sentence with a husky kind of calm . 
That all depends upon yourself , Mr. Burns . 
First , I want to know by what right you come here with your picture making . 
You haven't explained that yet , you know . 
The highest paid director of the Great Western Film Company looked at her long . 
With her head tilted back , Jean returned the look . 
Oh , all right all right , he surrendered finally . 
That ought to satisfy you that we ain't trespassing here or anywhere else . 
So Robert Grant Burns folded his arms across his heaving chest and watched her and studied her and measured her with his mind while she read . 
He saw the pulling together of her eyebrows , and the pinching of her under lip between her teeth . 
Sitting so , she made a picture that appealed to him . 
Jean recognized her uncle's ostentatious attempt at legal phraseology and knew , even without the evidence of his angular writing , that the document was genuine . 
She knew also that Robert Grant Burns was justified in ordering her off that bench she had no right there , where he was making his pictures . 
She forced back the bitterness that filled her because of her own helplessness , and folded the paper carefully . 
The little brown bird chirped shrilly and fluttered a feeble protest when she took away her sheltering hand . 
Jean returned the paper hastily to its owner and took up the bird . 
I beg your pardon for delaying your work , she said coldly , and rose from the bench . 
But you might have explained your presence in the first place . 
Robert Grant Burns turned slowly on his heels and watched her go , and until she had led out her horse , mounted and ridden away , he said never a word . 
Some rider , Lee Milligan commented to the assistant camera man , and without any tangible reason regretted that he had spoken . 
Robert Grant Burns turned harshly to the two women . 
Now then , you two go through that scene again . 
And when you put out your hand to stop Muriel , don't grab at her , Mrs. Gay . 
Hesitate ! You want your son to get the warning , but you've got your doubts about letting her take the risk of going . 
And , Gay , when you read the letter , try and show a little emotion in your face . 
You saw how that girl looked see if you can't get that hurt , bitter look GRADUALLY , as you read . 
The way she got it . 
Put in more feeling and not so much motion . 
You know what I mean you saw the girl . 
That's the stuff that gets over . 
Ready ? Camera ! CHAPTER IX A MAN SIZED JOB FOR JEAN Jean was just returning wet lashed from burying the little brown bird under a wild rose bush near the creek . 
She had known all along that it would die everything that she took any interest in turned out badly , it seemed to her . 
The wonder was that the bird had lived so long after she had taken it under her protection . 
All that day her Aunt Ella had worn a wet towel turban wise upon her head , and the look of a martyr about to enter a den of lions . 
Add that to the habitual atmosphere of injury which she wore , and Aunt Ella was not what one might call a cheerful companion . 
There never was anything she could do , but conscience and custom required her to observe the ceremony of asking . 
Aunt Ella found some languid satisfaction in replying dolorously that there was nothing that anybody could do , and that her part in life seemed to be to suffer . 
Her conscience knew Jean pretty well , and did not attempt to reprove her for what she had done . 
Then she found the bird dead in the little nest she had made for it , and things went all wrong . 
The sight of him incensed her suddenly . 
His attitude was one of gloomy meditation , and her own mood supplied the subject . 
She watched him for a minute or two , and his abstraction was so deep that he did not feel her presence . 
Uncle Carl , just how much did the Lazy A cost you ? she asked so abruptly that she herself was surprised at the question . 
His eyes hardened a little while he looked at her , for between these two there was scant affection . 
What do you want to know for ? he countered , when she persisted in looking at him as though she was waiting for an answer . 
Because I've a right to know . 
Some time , within four years , I mean to buy back the Lazy A. I want to know how much it will take . 
Until that moment Jean had merely dreamed of some day buying it back . 
Until she spoke she would have named the idea a beautiful , impossible desire . 
Where you going to get the money ? Carl looked at her curiously , as if he almost doubted her sanity . 
Rob a bank , perhaps . 
How much will it take to square things with you ? Of course , being a relative , I expect to be cheated a little . 
Dad told me dad told me that there was something left over for me . 
He didn't explain there wasn't time , and I couldn't listen to dollar talk then . 
I can see what you're driving at And I'm a pretty fair driver , too , Jean cut in calmly . 
I'll reach my destination , I think , give me time enough . 
Whatever fool notion you've got in your head , you'd better drop it , Carl told her harshly . 
There ain't anything you can do to better matters . 
Don't dare say that ! How can you say that , and think of dad ? He got the worst of it . 
He's the one that suffers most and he's as innocent as you or I. You know it . 
Carl rose from the porch and faced her like an enemy . 
And some things were not proved , to my satisfaction , at least . 
And you know how long the jury was out , and what a time they had agreeing . 
It was simply that they couldn't point to any one else . 
You know that was it . 
If I could find Art Osgood What's he got to do with it ? Her uncle leaned a little and peered into her face , which the dusk was veiling . 
That is what I want to find out . 
Jean's voice was quiet , but it had a quality which he had never before noticed . 
You'd better , he advised her tritely , let sleeping dogs lie . 
That's the trouble with sleeping dogs they do lie , more often than not . 
These particular dogs have lied for nearly three years . 
I'm going to stir them up and see if I can't get a yelp of the truth out of them . 
Oh , you are ! Carl laughed ironically . 
You'll stir up a lot of unpleasantness for yourself and the rest of us , is what you'll do . 
The thing's over and done with . 
Folks are beginning to forget it . 
You've got a home Jean laughed , and her laugh was extremely unpleasant . 
You get as good as the rest of us get , her uncle reminded her sharply . 
The Lazy A didn't make me rich , I can tell you that . 
It just barely helped to tide things over . 
You've got a home here , and you can come and go as you please . 
What you ain't got , he added bitterly , is common gratitude . 
She had said things that until lately she had not realized were in her mind . 
She had never thought of quarrelling , and yet one could scarcely call this encounter less than a quarrel . 
And the strange part of it was that she still believed what she had said she still intended to do the things she declared she would do . 
Just how she would do them she did not know , but her purpose was hardening and coming clean cut out of the vague background of her mind . 
After awhile the dim outline of the high shouldered hills glowed under a yellowing patch of light . 
Jean sat with her chin in her palms and watched the glow brighten swiftly . 
At last it was up , launched fairly upon its leisurely , drifting journey across to the farther hills behind her . 
It was not quite round . 
That was because one edge had scraped too hard against the side of the hill , perhaps . 
But warped though it was , its light fell softly upon Jean's face , and showed it set and still and stern eyed and somber . 
She sat there awhile longer , until the slopes lay softly revealed to her , their hollows filled with inky shadows . 
She rose and went into the house and to her room , and changed the hated striped percale for her riding clothes . 
A tall , lank form detached itself from the black shade of the bunk house as she went by , hesitated perceptibly , and then followed her down to the corral . 
When she had gone in with a rope and later led out Pard , the form stood forth in the white light of the moon . 
Where are you going , Jean ? Lite asked her in a tone that was soothing in its friendliness . 
That you , Lite ? I'm going well , just going . 
She pulled Pard's bridle off the peg where she always hung it , and laid an arm over his neck while she held the bit against his clinched teeth . 
Pard never did take kindly to the feel of the cold steel in his mouth , and she spoke to him sharply before his jaws slackened . 
Want me to go along with you ? Lite asked , and reached for his saddle and blanket . 
No , I want you to go to bed . 
Jean's tone was softer than it had been for that whole day . 
You've had all the riding you need . 
I've been shut up with Aunt Ella and her favorite form of torture . 
Got your gun ? Lite gave the latigo a final pull which made Pard grunt . 
Why ? Nothing , only it's a good night for coyotes , and you might get a shot at one . 
Another thing , a gun's no good on earth when you haven't got it with you . 
Yes , and you've told me so about once a week ever since I was big enough to pull a trigger , Jean retorted , with something approaching her natural tone . 
Maybe I won't come back , Lite . 
Maybe I'll camp over home till morning . 
Lite did not say anything in reply to that . 
He leaned his long person against a corral post and watched her out of sight on the trail up the hill . 
Then he caught his own horse , saddled it leisurely , and rode away . 
And that the gruesome memory of what had happened there did not make the place seem utterly horrible merely proves how unshakable was her faith in him . 
A coyote trotted up out of a hollow facing her , stiffened with astonishment , dropped nose and tail , and slid away in the shadow of the hill . 
A couple of minutes later Jean saw him sitting alert upon his haunches on a moon bathed slope , watching to see what she would do . 
She did nothing and the coyote pointed his nose to the moon , yap yap yapped a quavering defiance , and slunk out of sight over the hill crest . 
Her mind now was more at ease than it had been since the day of horror when she had first stared black tragedy in the face . 
She was passing through that phase of calm elation which follows close upon the heels of a great resolve . 
She had not yet come to the actual surmounting of the obstacles that would squeeze hope from the heart of her she had not yet looked upon the possibility of absolute failure . 
She was going to buy back the Lazy A from her Uncle Carl , and she was going to tear away that atmosphere of emptiness and desolation which it had worn so long . 
She was going to prove to all men that her father never had killed Johnny Croft . 
She was going to do it ! Then life would begin where it had left off three years ago . 
And when this deadening load of trouble was lifted , then perhaps she could do some of the glorious , great things she had all of her life dreamed of doing . 
Or , if she never did the glorious , great things , she would at least have done something to justify her existence . 
She would be content in her cage if she could go round and round doing things for dad . 
A level stretch of country lay at the foot of the long bluff , which farther along held the Lazy A coulee close against its rocky side . 
The high ridges stood out boldly in the moonlight , so that she could see every rock and the shadow that it cast upon the ground . 
Little , soothing night noises fitted themselves into her thoughts and changed them to waking dreams . 
She came into Lazy A coulee , half fancying that it was a real home coming . 
But when she reached the gate and found it lying flat upon the ground away from the broad tread of the picture people's machine , her mind jarred from dreams back to reality . 
From sheer habit she dismounted , picked up the spineless thing of stakes and barbed wire , dragged it into place across the trail , and fastened it securely to the post . 
She remounted and went on , and a little of the hopefulness was gone from her face . 
I'll just about have to rob a bank , I guess , she told herself with a grim humor at the tremendous undertaking to which she had so calmly committed herself . 
This is what dad would call a man sized job , I reckon . 
I'll just about have to rob a bank , or write a book that will make me famous . 
She touched Pard with a rein end and went on slowly . 
Robbing a bank would be the quickest and easiest , she decided whimsically , as she neared the place where she always sheltered Pard . 
I guess I'll write a book . 
It should be something real thrilly , so the people will rush madly to all the bookstores to buy it . 
And I think some Indians and outlaws would add several dollars' worth of thrills or else a ghost and a haunted house . 
And the wicked one would look over his shoulder and then utter a sardonic laugh . 
Sardonic is such an effective word I don't believe Indians would give him any excuse for sardonic laughter . 
She swung down from the saddle and led Pard into his stall , that was very black next the manger and very light where the moon shone in at the door . 
I must have lots of moonlight and several stormy sunsets , and the wind soughing in the branches . 
She groped in the manger and decided that there was hay enough to last him till morning , and went out and closed the door . 
Her shadow fell clean cut upon the rough planks , and she stood for a minute looking at it as if it were a person . 
She studied it abstractedly , as she would study herself in her mirror , conscious of the individuality , its likeness to herself . 
I don't know what kind of a mess you'll make of it , she said to her shadow , but you're going to tackle it , just the same . 
You can't do a thing till you get some money . 
She turned then and went thoughtfully up to the house and into her room , which had as yet been left undisturbed behind the bars she had placed against idle invasion . 
She turned her eyes to the familiar bold outline of the bluff that swung round in a crude oval to the point where the trail turned into the coulee from the southwest . 
Half way between the base and the ragged skyline , the boulder that looked like an elephant's head stood out , white of profile , hooded with black shade . 
She remembered the incident now as a small thread in the memory pattern she was weaving . 
After a long while her hands unclasped themselves from behind her head and dropped numbly to her lap . 
So she got up and crept under the Navajo blanket upon the couch , tucked it close about her shoulders , and shut her eyes deliberately . 
Just at first she did not know what it was that awakened her , though her eyes were open and fixed upon the lighted square of the window . 
She sighed and turned her face away from the moonlight , and closed her eyes again contentedly . 
Half dreaming she opened them again and stared up at the low ceiling . 
Somewhere in the house she heard footsteps . 
Very slowly she wakened enough to listen . 
They were footsteps , the heavy , measured tread of some man . 
She heard a drawer pulled out . 
? Jean thrilled then with a tremor of fear . 
She had wakened fully enough to remember . 
That was not her dad , out there in the kitchen . 
She did not know who it was it was some strange man prowling through the house , hunting for something . 
She felt again the tremor of fear that is the heritage of womanhood alone in the dark . 
She listened to the sound of that drawer being pushed back , and the other drawer being pulled out , and she shivered under the blanket . 
Then she reached out her hand and got hold of her six shooter which she had laid down unthinkingly upon a chair near the couch . 
She wondered if she had locked the outside door when she came in . 
She could not remember having done so probably she had not , since it is not the habit of honest ranch dwellers to lock their doors at night . 
She wanted to get up and see , and fasten it somehow but she was afraid the man out there might hear her . 
As it was , she reasoned nervously with herself , he probably did not suspect that there was any one in the house . 
It was an empty house . 
And unless he had seen Pard in the closed stall . 
She wondered if he had heard Pard there , and had investigated and found him . 
She wondered if he would come into this room . 
She remembered how securely she had nailed up the door from the kitchen , and she breathed freer . 
She remembered also that she had her gun , there under her hand . 
She closed her trembling fingers on the familiar grip of it , and the feel of it comforted her and steadied her . 
Yet she had no desire , no slightest impulse to get up and see who was there . 
She was careful not to move , except to cover the doorway to the kitchen with her gun . 
After a few minutes the man came and tried the door , and Jean lifted herself cautiously upon her elbow and waited in grim desperation . 
If he forced that door open , if he came in , she certainly would shoot and if she shot , well , you remember the fate of that hawk on the wing . 
The man did not force the door open , which was perhaps the luckiest thing that ever happened to him . 
He fussed there until he must have made sure that it was fastened firmly upon the inside , and then he left it and went into what had been the living room . 
Jean did not move from her half sitting position , nor did she change the aim of her gun . 
He might come back and try again . 
She heard him moving about in the living room . 
Surely he did not expect to find money in an empty house , or anything else of any commercial value . 
What was he after ? Finally he came back to the kitchen , crossed it , and stood before the barred door . 
He pushed against it tentatively , then stood still for a minute and finally went out . 
Jean heard him step upon the porch and pull the kitchen door shut behind him . 
She knew that squeal of the bottom hinge , and she knew the final gasp and click that proved the latch was fastened . 
She heard him step off the porch to the path , she heard the soft crunch of his feet in the sandy gravel as he went away toward the stable . 
Very cautiously she got off the couch and crept to the window and with her gun gripped tight in her hand , she looked out . 
Jean gave a long sigh of nervous relaxation , and crept shivering under the Navajo blanket . 
The gun she slid under the pillow , and her fingers rested still upon the cool comfort of the butt . 
Soon she heard a horse galloping , and she went to the window again and looked out . 
The moon hung low over the bluff , so that the trail lay mostly in the shadow . 
But down by the gate it swung out in a wide curve to the rocky knoll , and there it lay moon lighted and empty . 
She fixed her eyes upon that curve and waited . 
In a moment the horseman galloped out upon the curve , rounded it , and disappeared in the shadows beyond . 
A horseman did not fit that theory anywhere . 
That particular horseman had come there deliberately , had given the house a deliberate search , and had left in haste when he had finished . 
Whether he had failed or succeeded in finding what he wanted , he had left . 
He had not searched the stables , unless he had done that before coming into the house . 
Jean stared up in the dark and puzzled long over the identity of that man , and his errand . 
And the longer she thought about it , the more completely she was at sea . 
All the men that she knew were aware that she kept this room habitable , and visited the ranch often . 
That was no secret it never had been a secret . 
No one save Lite Avery had ever been in it , so far as she knew , unless she counted those chance trespassers who had prowled boldly through her most sacred belongings . 
So that almost any one in the country , had he any object in searching the house , would know that this room was hers , and would act in that knowledge . 
There could be no errand , so far as she knew . 
There were no missing papers such as plays and novels are accustomed to have cunningly hidden in empty houses . 
, and decided that her book should certainly have a ghost in it she was sure that she could describe with extreme vividness the effect of a ghost upon her various characters . 
In this wise she recovered her composure and laughed at her fear , and planned new and thrilly incidents for her novel . 
She would not tell Lite anything about it , she decided . 
She wished , just the same , that Lite was there . 
It would be much more comfortable if he were near instead of away over to the Bar Nothing , sound asleep in the bunk house . 
As a self appointed guardian , Jean considered Lite something of a nuisance , when he wasn't funny . 
But as a big , steady nerved friend and comrade , he certainly was a comfort . 
CHAPTER XI LITE'S PUPIL DEMONSTRATES Jean awoke to hear the businesslike buzzing of an automobile coming up from the gate . 
Evidently they were going to make pictures there at the house , which did not suit her plans at all . 
She intended to spend the early morning writing the first few chapters of that book which to her inexperience seemed a simple task , and to leave before these people arrived . 
As it was , she was fairly caught . 
From behind the curtains she watched them for a few minutes . 
Muriel Gay watched the two covertly , it seemed to Jean , and she also looked dissatisfied over something . 
Burns and the camera man walked down toward the stables , studying the bluff and the immediate surroundings , and still talking together . 
Burns ought to cut out those scenes , Gay , he began sympathetically . 
You can't do any more than you did yesterday . 
And believe me , you put it over in good style . 
I don't see what he wants more than you did . 
What he wants , said Muriel Gay dispiritedly , is for me to pull off stunts like that girl . 
I never saddled a horse in my life till he ordered me to do it in the scene yesterday . 
Why didn't he tell me far enough ahead so I could rehearse the business ? Latigo ! It sounds like some Spanish dish with grated cheese on top . 
I don't believe he knows himself what he meant . 
He's getting nutty on Western dope , sympathized Lee Milligan . 
I don't see where this country's got anything on Griffith Park for atmosphere , anyway . 
Burns says that he's got to retake that saddling scene just as soon as the horses get here . 
It looks just as simple , she added spitefully , as climbing to the top of the Berry Building tower and doing a leap to a passing airship . 
In fact , I'd choose the leap . 
A warm impulse of helpfulness stirred Jean . 
She caught up her hat , buckled her gun belt around her from pure habit , tucked a few loose strands of hair into place , and went out where they were . 
If you'll come down to the stable with me , she drawled , while they were staring their astonishment at her unexpected appearance before them , I'll show you how to saddle up . 
Pard's awfully patient about being fussed with you can practice on him . 
He's mean about taking the bit , though , unless you know just how to take hold of him . 
The three of them , Muriel Gay and her mother and Lee Milligan , stared at Jean without speaking . 
To her it seemed perfectly natural that she should walk up and offer to help the girl to them it seemed not so natural . 
For a minute the product of the cities and the product of the open country studied each other curiously . 
Come on , urged Jean in her lazily friendly drawl . 
It's simple enough , once you get the hang of it . 
And she smiled before she added , A latigo is just the strap that fastens the cinch . 
I'll bet Bobby Burns doesn't know that , said Muriel Gay , and got up from the bench . 
It's awfully good of you Mr. Burns is so I noticed that , said Jean , while Muriel was waiting for a word that would relieve her feelings without being too blunt . 
Burns and Pete Lowry and the assistant had gone down the coulee , still studying the bluff closely . 
I've got to ride down that bluff , Muriel informed Jean , her eyes following her director gloomily . 
He asked me last night if I could throw a rope . 
I don't know what for it's an extra punch he wants to put in this picture somewhere . 
I wish to goodness they wouldn't let him write his own scenarios he just lies awake nights , lately , thinking up impossible scenes so he can bully us afterwards . 
He's simply gone nutty on the subject of punches . 
Well , it's easy enough to learn how to saddle a horse , Jean told Muriel cheerfully . 
First you want to put on the bridle Burns told me to put on the saddle first and then he cuts the scene just as I pick up the bridle . 
The trouble is to get the saddle on right , and then that latigo dope ! But you ought to bridle him first , Jean insisted . 
Well , that isn't the way Burns directed the scene yesterday , Muriel Gay contended . 
The scene ends where I pick up the bridle . 
Then Robert Grant Burns doesn't know . 
I've seen men put on the bridle last but it's wrong . 
Lite Avery , and everybody who knows Muriel Gay looked at Jean with a weary impatience . 
What I have to do , she stated , is what Burns tells me to do . 
I should worry about it's being right or wrong I'm not the producer . 
Jean faced her , frowning a little . 
Then she laughed , hung the bridle back on the rusty spike , and took down the saddle blanket . 
We'll play I'm Robert Grant Burns , she said . 
Maybe I had better do it first , and show you . 
Then you'll get the idea . 
So Jean , with the best intention in the world , saddled Pard , and wondered what there was about so simple a process that need puzzle any one . 
If your saddle isn't hanging up , that's the way it should be put on the ground , she said . 
It was easy for Jean , but Muriel did not find it so simple . 
Jean went through the whole performance a second time , though she was beginning to feel that nature had never fitted her for a teacher of young ladies . 
Muriel , she began to suspect , rather resented the process of being taught . 
In another minute Muriel confirmed the suspicion . 
I think I've got it now , she said coolly . 
Thank you ever so much . 
Robert Grant Burns returned then , and close behind him rode Gil Huntley and those other desperados who had helped to brand the calf that other day . 
Gil was leading a little sorrel with a saddle on , Muriel's horse evidently . 
Jean had started back to the house and her own affairs , but she lingered with a very human curiosity to see what they were all going to do . 
Of his company , Pete Lowry was the only one who did know it , but that was because Pete himself was trained in the art of observation . 
I'd rather work with live things , said Jean after a while . 
But I can see where this must be rather fascinating , too . 
This is working with live things , if anybody wants to know , Pete declared . 
Wait till you see Burns in action handling bronks is easy compared to About where does the side line come , Pete ? Burns interrupted . 
If Gil stands here and holds the horse for that close up saddling He whirled upon Gil Huntley . 
Lead that sorrel up here , he commanded . 
We'll have to cut off his head so the halter won't show . 
Now , how's that ? This was growing interesting . 
She watched Robert Grant Burns walking back and forth , growling and chuckling by turns as things pleased him or did not please him . 
She watched Lee Milligan carry the saddle up and throw it down upon the ground , with skirts curled under and stirrups sprawling . 
Oh , don't leave it that way , she remonstrated . 
Lay it on its side ! You'll have the skirts kinked so it never will set right . 
Muriel Gay gasped and looked from her to Robert Grant Burns . 
For betraying your country and your flag is no crime at all compared with telling your director what he must do . 
Bring that saddle over here , commanded Burns , indicating another spot eighteen inches from the first . 
And don't slop it down like it was a bundle of old clothes . 
Lay it on its side . 
Lee Milligan moved the saddle and placed it upon its side , and Burns went to the camera and eyed the scene critically for its photographic value . 
How's Gil outside the line , Pete ? All right . 
Now , Miss Gay , remember , you're in a hurry , and you're worried half to death . 
You've just time enough to get there if you use every second . 
You were crying when the letter scene closed , and this is about five minutes afterwards you just had time enough to catch your horse and lead him out here to saddle him . 
Register a sob when you turn to pick up the saddle . 
You ought to do this all right without rehearsing . 
Get into the scene and start your action at the same time . 
Pete , you pick it up just as she gets to the horse's shoulder and starts to turn . 
Don't forget that sob , Gay . 
Ready ? Camera ! Jean was absorbed , fascinated by this glimpse into a new and very busy little world , the world of moving picture makers . 
She leaned forward and watched every moment , every little detail . 
Grab the horn with your right hand , Miss Gay ! she cried involuntarily , when Muriel stooped and started to pick up the saddle . 
Muriel registered that sob and a couple more before she succeeded in heaving the saddle upon the back of the flinching sorrel . 
Because she took up the saddle by horn and cantle instead of doing it as Jean had taught her , she bungled its adjustment upon the horse's back . 
Then the sorrel began to dance away from her , and Robert Grant Burns swore under his breath . 
Stop the camera ! he barked and waddled irately up to Muriel . 
This , he observed ironically , is drama , Miss Gay . 
We are not making slap stick comedy to day and you needn't give an imitation of boosting a barrel over a fence . 
Tears that were real slipped down over the rouge and grease paint on Muriel's cheeks . 
Why don't you make that girl stop butting in ? she flashed unexpectedly . 
I'm not accustomed to working under two directors ! She registered another sob which the camera never got . 
This brought Jean over to where she could lay her hand contritely upon the girl's shoulder . 
I'm awfully sorry , she drawled with perfect sincerity . 
I didn't mean to rattle you but you know you never in the world could throw the stirrup over free , the way you had hold of the saddle . 
Jean looked at him questioningly and walked back to the pile of posts . 
I won't butt in any more , she called out to Muriel . 
Burns shouted Sob ! and Muriel sobbed with her face toward the camera . 
Burns commanded her to pick up the saddle , and Muriel picked up the saddle and flung it spitefully upon the back of the sorrel . 
Oh , you forgot the blanket ! exclaimed Jean , and stopped herself with her hand over her too impulsive mouth , just as Burns stopped the camera . 
The director bowed his head and shook it twice slowly and with much meaning . 
He did not say anything at all no one said anything . 
Gil Huntley looked at Jean and tried to catch her eye , so that he might give her some greeting , or at least a glance of understanding . 
But Jean was wholly concerned with the problem which confronted Muriel . 
It was a shame , she thought , to expect a girl , and when she had reached that far she straightway put the thought into speech , as was her habit . 
It's a shame to expect that girl to do something she doesn't know how to do , she said suddenly to Robert Grant Burns . 
You seem determined to get into the foreground somehow get up and go through that scene and show us how a girl gets a saddle on a horse . 
Jean sat still for ten seconds and deliberated while she looked from him to the horse . 
Again she made a picture that drove its elusive quality of individuality straight to the professional soul of Robert Grant Burns . 
I will if you'll let me do it the right way , she said , just when he was thinking she would not answer him . 
She did not wait for his assurance , once she had decided to accept the challenge , or the invitation she did not quite know which he had meant it to be . 
I'm going to bridle him first though , she informed him . 
And you can tell that star villain to back out of the way . 
Still Burns did not say anything . 
He was watching her , studying her , measuring her , seeing her as she would have looked upon the screen . 
Jean went first and placed the saddle to her liking upon the ground . 
You want me to act just as if you were going to take a picture of it , don't you ? she asked Burns over her shoulder . 
She was not sure whether he nodded , but she acted upon the supposition that he did , and took the lead rope from Gil's hand . 
Shall I be hurried and worried and shall I sob ? she asked , with the little smile at the corners of her eyes and just easing the line of her lips . 
Robert Grant Burns seemed to make a quick decision . 
You saw the action as Miss Gay went through it . 
Do as she did only we'll let you have your own ideas of saddling the horse . 
He turned his head toward Pete and made a very slight gesture , and Pete grinned . 
All ready ? Start the action ! After that he did not help her by a single suggestion . 
He tapped Pete upon the shoulder , and stood with his feet far apart and his hands on his hips , watching her very intently . 
Jean was plainly startled , just at first , by the business like tone in which he gave the signal . 
Then she laughed a little . 
I must be hurried and worried and I must sob , she corrected herself . 
So she hurried , and every movement she made counted for something accomplished . 
She picked up the bridle and shortened her hold upon the lead rope , and discovered that the sorrel had a trick of throwing up his head and backing away from the bit . 
She got the bridle on , and then she saddled the sorrel . 
But she only went a couple of rods before she pulled him up sharply and dismounted . 
That didn't take me long , did it ? she asked . 
I could have hurried a lot more if I had known the horse . 
Then she stopped dead still and looked at Robert Grant Burns . 
Oh , my goodness , I forgot to sob ! she gasped . 
And she caught her hat brim and pulling her Stetson more firmly down upon her head , turned and ran up the path to the house , and shut herself into her room . 
The memory of last night came to her vividly , and she smiled while she fished with a pair of scissors for an olive . 
She would start the book off weirdly with mysterious sounds in an empty room . 
That , she argued , should fix firmly the interest of the reader right at the start . 
By the time she had fished the olive from the bottle , however , her thoughts swung from the artistic to the material aspect of those mysterious footsteps . 
What had the man wanted or expected to find ? She set down the olive bottle impulsively and went out and around to the kitchen door and opened it . 
In spite of herself , she shuddered as she went in , and she walked close to the wall until she was well past the brown stain on the floor . 
She went to the old fashioned cupboard and examined the contents of the drawers and looked into a cigar box which stood open upon the top . 
She went into her father's bedroom and looked through everything , which did not take long , since the room had little left in it . 
At the same time , there must have been a reason . 
Men of that country did not ride abroad during the still hours of the night just for the love of riding . 
Most of them went to bed at dark and slept until dawn . 
Say , he called , just before she disappeared around the corner . 
I want to talk to you . 
Jean waited , and the fat man came up breathing hard because of his haste in the growing heat of the forenoon . 
Say , I'd like to use you in a few scenes , he began abruptly when he reached her . 
Gay can't put over the stuff I want and I'd like to have you double for her in some riding and roping scenes . 
You're about the same size and build , and I'll get you a blond wig for close ups , like that saddling scene . 
I believe you've got it in you to make good on the screen anyway , the practice you'll get doubling for Gay won't do you any harm . 
Jean looked at him , tempted to consent for the fun there would be in it . 
I'd like to , she told him after a little silence . 
I really would love it . 
But I've got some work that I must do . 
Let the work wait , urged Burns , relieved because she showed no resentment against the proposal . 
I want to get this picture made . 
It's going to be a hummer . 
There's something I need it for . 
You'll earn money at this , he told her bluntly . 
You didn't think I'd ask you to work for nothing , I hope . 
It's like this If you'll work in this picture and put over what I want , it'll be feature stuff . 
Of course , I can't say just how much , this is just a try out you understand that . 
But if you can deliver the goods , I'll see that you get treated right . 
Some producers might play the cheap game just because you're green but I ain't that kind , and my company ain't that kind . 
Involuntarily his eyes turned toward the bluff . 
There's a ride down the bluff that I want , and a roping say , can you throw a rope ? Jean laughed . 
Lite Avery says I can , she told him , and Lite Avery can almost write his name in the air with a rope . 
There's no place here in the coulee where you can ride down the bluff , Jean informed him , except back of the house , and that's out of sight . 
Farther over there's a kind of trail that a good horse can handle . 
I came down it on a run , once , with Pard . 
So I made a run down off the point , and got to him in time to rope him out . 
You might use that trail . 
Robert Grant Burns stood and stared at her as though he did not see her at all . 
In truth , he was seeing with his professional eyes a picture of that dash down the bluff . 
He was seeing a close up of Jean whirling her loop and lassoing the drowning man just as he had given up hope and was going under for the third time . 
Lee Milligan was the drowning man ! and the agony of his eyes , and the tenseness of Jean's face , made Robert Grant Burns draw a long breath . 
Lord , what feature stuff that would make ! he said under his breath . 
I'll write a scenario around that rescue scene . 
It is not well for a director to permit his enthusiasm to carry him into injudicious speech . 
He chuckled to hide his eagerness . 
Well , you can show me that location , he said , and we'll get to work . 
You'll have to use the sorrel , of course but I guess he'll be all right . 
This saddling scene will have to wait till I send for a wig . 
You can change clothes with Miss Gay and get by all right at a distance , just as you are . 
A little make up , maybe she'll fix that . 
Come on , let's get to work . 
And don't worry about the salary I'll tell you to night what it'll be , after I see you work . 
When he was in that mood , Robert Grant Burns swept everything before him . 
He swept Jean into his plans before she had really made up her mind whether to accept his offer or stick to her literary efforts . 
I'm glad you are going to double in that ride down the bluff , anyway , Muriel declared , while she blacked Jean's brows and put shadows around her eyes . 
I could have done it , of course but mamma is so nervous about my getting hurt that I hate to do anything risky like that . 
It upsets her for days . 
There isn't much risk in riding down the bluff , said Jean carelessly . 
Not if you've got a good horse . 
I wonder if that sorrel is rope broke . 
Have you ever roped off him ? No , said Muriel , I haven't . 
She might have added that she never roped off any horse , but she did not . 
I'll have to try him out and see what he's like , before I try to rope for a picture . 
I wonder if there'll be time now ? Jean was pleasantly excited over this new turn of events . 
She had dreamed of doing many things , but never of helping to make moving pictures . 
She went straight up to Burns and waited for his verdict . 
Do I look like Miss Gay ? she drawled . 
The keen eyes of Burns half closed while he studied her . 
No , I can't say that you do , he said after a moment . 
Walk off toward the corrals , and , say ! Mount the sorrel and start off like you were in a deuce of a hurry . 
How far shall I ride ? Jean's eyes had a betraying light of interest . 
Oh to the gate , maybe . 
But you'll have to make it right away , or else wait till to morrow . 
The sun's getting around pretty well in front . 
We'll take it right after this rehearsal , if the girl can put the stuff over right , Burns muttered . 
And she can , or I'm badly mistaken . 
Pete , that girl's He stopped short , because the shadow of Lee Milligan was moving up to them . 
All right , Miss say , what's your name , anyway ? He was told , and went on briskly . 
Miss Douglas , just start from off that way , about where that round rock is . 
You'll come into the scene a little beyond . 
Hurry straight up to the sorrel and mount and ride off . 
Your lover is going to be trapped by the bandits , and you've just heard it and are hurrying to save him . 
Get the idea ? Now let's see you do it . 
You don't want me to sob , do you ? Jean looked over her shoulder to inquire . 
Because if I were going to save my lover , I don't believe I'd want to waste time weeping around all over the place . 
You can cut out the sob , he permitted . 
Just go ahead like it was real stuff . 
Jean was standing by the rock , ready to start . 
She looked at Burns speculatively . 
Oh , well , if it were real , I'd run ! Go ahead and run then ! Burns commanded . 
Run she did , and startled the sorrel so that it took quick work to catch him . 
Camera ! She might not do it like that again , ever ! cried Burns . 
She was up in the saddle and gone in a flurry of dusts while Robert Grant Burns stood with his hands on his hips and watched her gloatingly . 
Lord ! But that girl's a find ! he ejaculated , and this time he did not seem to care who heard him . 
He cut the scene just as Jean pulled up at the gate . 
See how she set that sorrel down on his haunches ? he chuckled to Pete . 
Talk about feature stuff that girl will jump our releases up ten per cent . 
, Pete , with the punches I can put into Gay's parts now . 
How many feet was that scene , twenty five ? Fifteen , corrected Pete . 
And every foot with a punch in it . 
Too bad she's got to double for Gay . 
She's got the face for close up work , believe me ! To this tentative remark Robert Grant Burns made no reply whatever . 
Muriel Gay was a leading woman with a certain assured following among movie audiences . 
Daring horsewomanship would greatly increase that following , and therefore the financial returns of these Western pictures . 
Burns was her director , and it was to his interest to build up her popularity . 
I don't know about your hair , he told her , when she came up to him and stopped . 
We'll run the negative to night and see how it shows up . 
The rest of the scene was all right . 
I had Pete make it . 
I'm going to take some scenes down here by the gate , now , with the boys . 
I won't need you till after lunch , probably then I'll have you make that ride down off the bluff and some close up rope work . 
I suppose I ought to ride over to the ranch , Jean said undecidedly . 
And I ought to try out this sorrel if you want me to use him . 
Would some other day do just In the picture business , interrupted Robert Grant Burns dictatorially , the working hours of an actor belong to the director he's working for . 
If I use you in pictures , your time will belong to me on the days when I use you . 
Otherwise it will belong to me . 
Well , we might as well get down to brass tacks and have things thoroughly understood , he decided . 
I'll use you as an extra to double for Miss Gay where there's any riding stunts and so on . 
Miss Gay is a good actress , but she can't ride to amount to anything . 
With the clothes and make up you impersonate her . 
See what I mean ? And for straight riding I'll pay you five dollars a day five dollars for your time on the days that I want to use you . 
For any feature stuff , like that ride down the bluff , and the roping , and the like of that , it'll be more . 
Twenty five dollars for feature stuff , say , and five dollars for straight riding . 
Get me ? I do , yes . 
Jean's drawl gave no hint of her inner elation at the prospect of earning so much money so easily . 
What , she wondered , would Lite say to that ? Well , that part's all right then . 
Well , I'll have use for that , too , later on . 
The more stunts you can pull off , the bigger hits these pictures are going to make . 
You see that , of course . 
And what I've offered you is a pretty good rate but I expect to get results . 
I told you I wasn't any cheap John to work for . 
Now get this point , and get it right I'll expect you to report to me every morning here , at eight o'clock . 
I may need you that day and I may not , but you're to be on hand . 
If I do need you , you get paid for that day , whether it's one scene or twenty you're to work in . 
If I don't need you that day , you don't get anything . 
That's what being an extra means . 
You start in to day , and if you make the ride down the bluff , it'll be twenty five to day . 
But you can't go riding off somewhere else , and maybe not be here when I want you . 
You're under my orders , like the rest of the company . 
Get that ? I'll try it for a week , anyway , she said . 
Obeying your orders will be the hardest part of it , Mr. Burns . 
I always want to stamp my foot and say I won't' when any one tells me I must do something . 
You'll probably fire me before the week's out , she prophesied . 
I'll be as meek as possible , but if we quarrel , well , you know how sweet tempered I can be ! Burns looked at her queerly and laughed . 
I'll take a chance on that , he said , and went chuckling back to the camera . 
I'd like to use you , anyway , she added frankly , to practice on . 
You can ride past , you know , and let me rope you . 
Oh , it won't hurt you and there'll be no risk at all , she hastened to assure the other , when she saw refusal in Muriel's eyes . 
I'll not take any turns around the horn , you know . 
I don't want Muriel taking risks like that , put in Mrs. Gay hastily . 
That's just why Burns is going to have you double for her . 
A leading woman can't afford to get hurt . 
Muriel , you stay here and rest while you have a chance . 
Goodness knows it's hard enough , at best , to work under Burns . 
Jean looked at her and turned away . 
So that was it a leading woman could not afford to be hurt ! Some one else , who didn't amount to anything , must take the risks . 
She had received her first little lesson in this new business . 
She went straight to Burns , interrupted him in coaching his chief villain for a scene , and asked him if he could spare a man for half an hour or so . 
I want some one to throw a rope over on the run , she explained naively , to try out this sorrel . 
Burns regarded her somberly he hated to be interrupted in his work . 
Ain't there anybody else you can rope ? he wanted to know . 
Where's Gay ? A leading woman , quoted Jean serenely , can't afford to get hurt ! Burns chuckled . 
He knew who was the author of that sentence he had heard it before . 
Well , if you're as fatal as all that , I can't turn over my leading man for you to practice on , either , he pointed out to her . 
What's the matter with a calf or something ? You won't let me ride out of your sight to round one up , Jean retorted . 
There are no calves handy that's why I asked for a man . 
Whereupon the villains looked at one another queerly , and the chuckle of their director exploded into a full lunged laugh . 
I'm going to use all these fellows in a couple of scenes , he told her . 
Can't you practice on a post ? I don't have to practice . 
It's the sorrel I want to try out . 
Jean's voice lost a little of its habitual , soft drawl . 
Really , these picture people did seem very dense upon some subjects ! Well , now look here . 
Robert Grant Burns caught at the shreds of his domineering manner . 
My part of this business is producing the scenes . 
You'll have to attend to the getting ready part . 
I wish I had Lite here but I guess Pard and I can handle the sorrel ourselves . 
Sorry to have disturbed you . 
Robert Grant Burns , his leading man and all his villains stood and watched her walk away from them to the stable . 
They watched her lead Pard out and turn him loose in the biggest corral . 
When they saw her take her coiled rope , mount the sorrel and ride in , they went , in a hurried group , to where they might look into that corral . 
They watched her pull the gate shut after her , lean from the saddle , and fasten the chain hook in its accustomed link . 
Oh , I thought you were all so terribly busy ! taunted Jean , while her loop was circling over her head . 
Pard wheeled just then upon his hind feet , but the loop settled true over his head and drew tight against his shoulders . 
The sorrel lunged and fought the rope , and snorted and reared . 
It took fully two minutes for Jean to force him close enough to Pard so that she might flip off the loop . 
While she was coiling her rope , he was making half hearted buck jumps across the corral . 
When she swished the rope through the air to widen her loop , he reared and whirled . 
She jabbed him smartly with the spurs , and he kicked forward at her feet . 
With that she was off across the corral at a tearing pace that made the watchers gasp . 
The sorrel swung clear of the fence . 
He came near going down in a heap , but recovered himself after scrambling along on his knees . 
Jean brought him to a stand before Burns . 
I'll have to ask you to raise your price , Mr. Burns , if you want me to run this animal down the bluff , she stated firmly . 
He's just what I thought he was all along a ride around the block horse from some livery stable . 
When it comes to range work , he doesn't know as much as Some people . 
I get you , Burns cut in drily . 
How about that horse of yours ? Would you be willing to let me have the use of him at so much per ? If I do the riding , yes . 
Now , since you're here , and don't seem as busy as you thought you were , I'll show you the difference between this livery stable beast and a real rope horse . 
She dismounted and called to Pard , and Pard came to her , stepping warily because of the sorrel and the rope . 
Now , that's a real , typical , livery stable saddle and bridle , she observed to Burns , pointing scornfully at the sorrel . 
I was going to tell you that I'd hate to be seen in a picture riding that outfit , anyway . 
Now , you watch how differently Pard behaves with a rope and everything . 
And you watch the sorrel get what's coming to him . 
Shall I bust' him ? You mean throw him ? Burns , in his eagerness , began to climb the corral fence , until he heard a rail crack under his weight . 
Yes , BUST him , if you want to . 
John Jimpson ! if you can rope and throw that sorrel Jean did not reply to that half finished sentence . 
She was busy saddling Pard now she mounted and widened her loop with a sureness of the result that flashed a thrill of expectation to her audience . 
Twice the loop circled over her head before she flipped it out straight and true toward the frantic sorrel as he surged by . 
She caught him fairly by both front feet and swung Pard half away from him . 
Pard's muscles stiffened against the jerk of the rope , and the sorrel went down with a bump . 
Pard backed knowingly and braced himself like the trained rope horse he was , and Jean looked at Robert Grant Burns and laughed . 
I didn't bust him , she disclaimed whimsically . 
He done busted himself ! She touched Pard with her heel and rode up so that the rope slackened , and she could throw off the loop . 
Did you see how Pard set himself ? she questioned eagerly . 
I could have gotten off and gone clear away , and Pard would have kept that horse from getting on his feet . 
Now you see the difference , don't you ? Pard never would have gone down like that . 
Oh , you'll do , chuckled Robert Grant Burns , I'll pay you a little more and use you and your horse together . 
Come on , boys , let's get to work . 
Lite , of course , knew all about that soon to be famous book . 
He usually did know nearly everything that concerned Jean or held her interest . 
Whether , after three years of futile attempts , Lite still felt himself entitled to be called Jean's boss , I cannot say for a certainty . 
He had grown rather silent upon that subject , and rather inclined to keep himself in the background , as Jean grew older and more determined in her ways . 
But certainly he was Jean's one confidential friend , her pal . 
So Lite , perforce , listened while Jean told him the plot of her story . 
Lee Milligan she visualized as the human wolf who looked with desire upon Lillian . 
Muriel Gay was likely to become the most famous photo play actress in the West , he believed . 
That is , she would if Jean continued to double for her in everything save the straight dramatic work . 
Jean did not care just at that time how much glory Muriel Gay was collecting for work that Jean herself had done . 
Jean was seeing the Lazy A restored to its old time home like prosperity . 
She was seeing her dad there , going tranquilly about the everyday business of the ranch , holding his head well up , and looking every man straight in the eye . 
She could not and she would not let even Lite persuade her to give up risking her neck for the money the risk would bring her . 
She did not know that she was doubling the profit on these Western pictures which Robert Grant Burns was producing . 
She did not know that it would have hastened the attainment of her desires had her name appeared in the cast as the girl who put the punches in the plays . 
Jean started a savings account in the little bank where her father had opened an account before she was born , and Lite was made to writhe inwardly with her boasting . 
He had the same object which Jean had lately adopted so zealously , but he did not tell her these things . 
He listened instead while Jean read gloatingly her balance , and talked of what she would do when she had enough saved to buy back the ranch . 
She had stolen unwittingly the air castle which Lite had been three years building , but he did not say a word about it to Jean . 
Very soon she could go boldly to a lawyer and ask him to do something about her father's case . 
And she wished she knew how to get about setting some one on the trail of Art Osgood . 
Jean was sure that Art Osgood knew something about the murder , and she frequently tried to make Lite agree with her . 
Sometimes she was sure that Art Osgood was the murderer , and would argue and point out her reasons to Lite . 
Still , Art Osgood was less friendly with Johnny than most of the men in the country , and just after the murder he had left the country . 
Jean laid a good deal of stress upon the circumstance of Art Osgood's leaving on that particular afternoon , and she seemed to resent it because no one had tried to find Art . 
Sometimes , in the throes of literary composition , she could not think of the word that she wanted . 
Always her thoughts traveled in a wide circle and came back finally to the starting point to free her father , and to give him back his home , she must have money . 
To have money , she must earn it she must work for it . 
It was very creepy , in spots . 
You want to cut out this story writing , he said abruptly , when she paused to find the next page . 
It's bad enough to work like you do in the pictures . 
This is going a little too strong you're as jumpy to night as a guilty conscience . 
I'm just doing that for dramatic effect . 
This is very weird , Lite . 
I ought to have a green shade on the lamp , to get the proper effect . 
I don't you think er those footsteps are terribly mysterious ? Lite looked at her sharply for a minute . 
I sure do , he said drily . 
Where did you get the idea , Jean ? Out of my head , she told him airily , and went on reading while Lite studied her curiously . 
That night Jean awoke and heard stealthy footsteps , like a man walking in his socks and no boots , going all through the house but never coming to her room . 
She did not get up to see who it was , but lay perfectly still and heard her heart thump . 
Then she remembered the bar of light under the door , and the pack rat theory was spoiled . 
She had taken the board off the doorway into the kitchen , so that she could use the cookstove . 
The man could have come in if he had wanted to , and that knowledge she found extremely disquieting . 
She went all through the house that morning , looking and wondering . 
Yet she was sure that some one had been prowling in there in the night . 
Jean did not tell Lite about the footsteps . 
She did not know Lite as well as she imagined , which is frequently the case with the closest of friends . 
As a matter of fact , Jean had never spent one night alone on the ranch , even though she did believe she was doing so . 
Lite had a homestead a few miles away , upon which he was supposed to be sleeping occasionally to prove his good faith in the settlement . 
For three years Lite had lain aside the mystery of the footprints on the kitchen floor on the night after the inquest , as a puzzle he would probably never solve . 
He had come to remember them as a vagrant incident that carried no especial meaning . 
But now they seemed to carry a new significance , if only he could get at the key . 
And now Jean herself seemed to be leading him unconsciously face to face with doubt and mystery . 
He knew the prowler , and for that reason he was all the more puzzled . 
What had he wanted or expected to find ? Lite was tempted to face the man and ask him but on second thought he knew that would be foolish . 
He would say nothing to Jean . 
He thanked the Lord she slept soundly ! and he would wait and see what happened . 
It can't go on like this forever , he told her impressively for the second time , before he was sure of her attention and her interest . 
Think of you , working extra under a three day guarantee ! Why , you're what's making the pictures ! I had a letter from a friend of mine he's with the Universal . 
He'd been down to see one of our pictures , that first one you worked in . 
And he wanted to know who was doubling for Gay , up here . 
You see , he got next that it was a double he knows darned well Gay never could put over that line of stuff . 
You could tell it was a girl and no man doubling the part . 
Gloomy says everybody around the studio has begun to watch for our releases , and go just to see you ride and rope and shoot . 
And Gay gets all the press notices ! Say , it makes me sick ! He looked at Jean wistfully . 
The trouble is , you don't realize what a raw deal you're getting , he said , with much discontent in his tone . 
As an extra , you're getting fine treatment and fine pay I admit that . 
But the point is , you've no business being an extra . 
Where you belong is playing leads . 
You don't know what that means , but I do . 
Jean's drawl was soft , and her eyes were friendly and amused . 
So far had their friendship progressed . 
It's awfully dear of you to want to see me a real leading lady . 
I appreciate it , and I won't take off that lock of hair I said I'd take when I shoot you in the foreground . 
Are aren't you afraid of me , Gil ? Afraid of you ? Gil's horse swung closer , and Gil's eyes threatened the opening of a tacitly forbidden subject . 
It's that lightning draw business I have to do , Gil . 
I'm to stand three quarters to the camera , with my face turned away , watching you . 
You keep coming , and you stop just an instant when you're almost within reach of me . 
In that instant I have to grab my gun and shoot and it has to look as if I got you , Gil . 
I've got to come pretty close , in order to bring the gun in line with you for the camera . 
Bobby wants to show off the quick draw that Lite Avery taught me . 
That's to be the punch' in the scene . 
I showed him this morning what it is like , and Bobby is just tickled to death . 
You see , I don't shoot the way they usually do in pictures I should say not ! Gil interrupted admiringly . 
You haven't seen that quick work , either . 
It'll look awfully real , Gil , and you mustn't dodge or duck , whatever you do . 
It will be just as if you really were a man I'm deadly afraid of , that has me cornered at last against that ledge . 
I'm going to do it as if I meant it . 
I won't have time to take a fine aim , you know . 
Listen ! said Gil , leaning toward her with his eyes very earnest . 
I know all about that . 
I heard you and Burns talking about it . 
You go ahead and shoot , and put that scene over big . 
Don't you worry about me I'm going to play up to you , if I can . 
Listen ! Pete's just waiting for a chance to register your face on the film . 
Burns has planned his scenes to prevent that , but we're just lying low till the chance comes . 
It's got to be dramatic , and it's got to seem accidental . 
Get me ? I shouldn't have told you , but I can't seem to trick you , Jean . 
You're the kind of a girl a fellow's got to play fair with . 
Bobby has told me five times already to remember and keep my face away from the camera , Jean pointed out the second time . 
Makes me feel as if I had lost my nose , or was cross eyed or something . 
I do feel as if I'd lose my job , Gil . 
Anyway , you can forget what I've said , if you'll feel more comfortable . 
It's up to Pete and me , and we'll put it over smooth , or we won't do it at all . 
Bobby won't realize it's happened till he hears from it afterwards . 
He turned his grease painted face toward her hearteningly and smiled as endearingly as the sinister , painted lines would allow . 
Listen ! he repeated as a final encouragement , because he had sensed her preoccupation and had misread it for worry over the picture . 
You go ahead and shoot , and don't bother about me . 
Shoot as close as you like . 
If you pink me a little I won't care , if you'll promise to be my nurse . 
I want a vacation , anyway . 
Robert Grant Burns had discovered that he had at least two persons in his company who were perfectly willing to do anything he asked them to do . 
He had set tasks before Jean Douglas that many a man would have refused without losing his self respect , and Jean had performed those tasks with enthusiasm . 
She had climbed that same rock rim , with the aid of that same rope , and with her face hidden as usual from the camera . 
Gil Huntley had also done many things that were risky . 
Jean had shot at him with real bullets so many times that her nervousness on this particular day was rather unaccountable to him . 
Jean had lassoed him and dragged him behind Pard through brush . 
Gil Huntley's part it was always to die a violent death , or to be captured spectacularly , because he was the villain whose horrible example must bear a moral to youthful brains . 
Since Jean had become one of the company , he nearly always died at her hands or was captured by her . 
This left Muriel Gay unruffled and unhurt , so that she could weep and accept the love of Lee Milligan in the artistic ending of which Robert Grant Burns was so fond . 
Jean had never before considered it necessary to warn Gil and implore him not to be nervous , and Gil took her solicitude as an encouraging sign and was visibly cheered thereby . 
Each morning the two stood side by side and were carefully inspected by Robert Grant Burns , to make sure that hair and costumes were exactly alike in the smallest detail . 
This also helped to carry on the deception to those who were not aware of Muriel's limitations . 
Their faces were not at all alike and that is why Jean's face must never be seen in a picture . 
She was not supposed to know where her flight was taking her . 
, and seeking with hands or feet for a hold upon the rough face of the rock . 
During the last two or three scenes Gil Huntley had been shown gaining upon her . 
So they came to the location where the shooting scene was to be made that morning . 
Burns , with the camera and Pete and Muriel and her mother and Lee Milligan , drove to the place in the machine . 
Jean and Gil Huntley found them comfortably disposed in the shade , out of range of the camera which Pete was setting up somewhat closer than usual , under the direction of Burns . 
There won't be any rehearsal of this , Burns stated at last , stepping back . 
When it's done , if you don't bungle the scene , it'll be done . 
You stand here , Jean , and kind of lean against the rock as if you're all in from that chase . 
Well , Gil , you come from behind that bush . 
She'll be looking toward you then without turning too much . 
You grin , and come up with that eager , I got you now look . 
Don't hurry too much we'll give this scene plenty of time . 
This is the feature scene . 
Jean , you're at the end of your rope . 
You couldn't run another step if you wanted to , and you're cornered anyway , so you can't get away get me ? You're scared . 
Did you ever get scared in your life ? Yes , said Jean simply , remembering last night when she had pulled the blanket over her head . 
Well , you think of that time you were scared . 
And you make yourself think that you're going to shoot the thing that scared you . 
You don't put in half the punch when you shoot blanks I've noticed that all along . 
So that's why you shoot a bullet . 
See ? And you come as close to Gil as you can and not hit him . 
Gil , when you're shot , you go down all in a heap you know what I mean . 
The scene stops right there , just as you start towards him . 
Then Gay takes it up and does the remorse and horror stuff because she's killed a man . 
That will be a close up . 
All right , now take your places . 
Sure your gun is loose so you can pull it quick ? That's the feature of this scene , remember . 
You want to get it across BIG ! And make it real , the scare , and all that . 
Hey , you women get behind the camera ! Bullets glance , sometimes , and play the very mischief . 
He looked all around to make sure that everything was as it should be , faced Jean again , and raised his hand . 
But after the first few seconds his strained expression relaxed anxiety gave place to something like surprise . 
Her face was dropped upon her arms flung up against the rock in an attitude of complete exhaustion and despair . 
Burns involuntarily nodded his head approvingly the girl had the idea , all right , even if she never had been trained to act a part . 
Come into the scene , Gil ! he commanded , when Jean made a move as though she was tempted to drop down upon the ground and sob hysterically . 
Jean , register that you hear him coming . 
Jean's head came up and she listened , every muscle stiffening with fear . 
She turned her face toward Gil , who stopped and looked at her most villainously . 
Gil , you must know , had come from legitimate and was a clever actor . 
Jean recoiled a little before the leering face of him pressed her shoulder hard against the ledge that had trapped her , and watched him in an agony of fear . 
One felt that she did , though one could not see her face . 
Gil spoke a few words and came on with a certain tigerish assurance of his power , but Jean did not move a muscle . 
She had backed as far away from him as she could get . 
She was not the kind to weep and plead with him . 
She just waited and one felt that she was keyed up to the supreme moment of her life . 
She did not know what it was he had in mind , but whatever it was , she knew what it meant . 
He was almost within reach , so close that one saw Jean shrink a little from his nearness . 
Gil stiffened , and his hand flew up to his temple . 
His eyes became two staring questions that bored into the soul of Jean . 
His hand dropped to his side , and his head sagged forward . 
He lurched , tried to steady himself and then went down limply . 
Jean dropped her gun and darted toward him , her face like chalk , as she turned it for one horrified instant toward Burns . 
She went down on her knees and lifted Gil's head , looking at the red blotch on his temple and the trickle that ran down his cheek . 
She laid his head down with a gentleness wholly unconscious , and looked again at Burns . 
I've killed him , she said in a small , dry , flat voice . 
She put out her hands gropingly and fell forward across Gil's inert body . 
It was the first time in her life that Jean had ever fainted . 
Stop the camera ! Burns croaked tardily , and Pete stopped turning . 
Pete had that little , twisted grin on his face , and he was perfectly calm and self possessed . 
She's fainted ! She's hit him ! cried Burns , and waddled over to where the two of them lay . 
The two women drew farther away , clinging to each other with excited exclamations . 
How was that for a punch ? he inquired of his director . 
I didn't tell her I was going to furnish the blood sponge I thought it might rattle her . 
I never thought she'd take it so hard Robert Grant Burns stopped and looked at him in heavy silence . 
Good Lord ! he snapped out at last . 
I dunno whether to fire you off the job or raise your salary ! You got the punch , all right . 
And the chances are you've ruined her nerve for shooting , into the bargain . 
I'm after the punch every time , Burns went on ruefully , but there's no use being a hog about it . 
Where's that water bag , Lee ? Go get it out of the machine . 
Say ! Can't you women do something besides stand there and howl ? Nobody's hurt , or going to be . 
But it hurt the professional soul of Robert Grant Burns to retake a scene so compellingly dramatic , because it had been so absolutely real . 
Gil Huntley was showing a marked tendency to repeat himself . 
He jumped up and gave his attention to Burns . 
Gil , take that same position you had when you fell . 
Put a little more blood on your face you wiped most of it off . 
That right leg is sprawled out too far . 
Draw it up a little . 
Throw out your left arm a little more . 
Now , Gay , you take Jean's gun and hold it down by your side , where her hand dropped right after she fired . 
You stand right about here , where her tracks are . 
Get INTO her tracks ! We're picking up the scene right where Gil fell . 
She looked straight into the camera and spoiled the rest , or I'd let it go in . 
Some acting , if you ask me , seeing it wasn't acting at all . 
He sent one of his slant eyed glances toward Jean , who bit her lips and looked away . 
Lean forward a little , and hold that gun like you knew what it was made for , anyway ! He regarded Muriel glumly . 
Say ! that ain't a stick of candy you're trying to hide in your skirt , he pointed out , with an exasperated , rising inflection at the end of the sentence . 
Say , you drop it the second the camera starts . 
You pick up the action where Jean dropped the gun and started for Gil . 
See if you can put it over the way she did . 
She really thought she'd killed him , remember . 
You saw the real , honest to John , horror dope that time . 
Now see how close you can copy it . 
All ready ? START your ACTION ! he barked . 
Yet the man's energy was dynamic his callousness was born of his passion for the making of good pictures . 
He swept even Jean out of the emotional whirlpool and into the calm , steady current of the work they had to do . 
He instructed Pete to count as spoiled those fifteen feet of film which recorded Jean's swift horror . 
But Pete Lowry did not always follow slavishly his instructions . 
He sent the film in as it was , without comment . 
And they waited and after awhile they began to show a marked interest in the mail from the west . 
You would never think , for instance , that Gil Huntley and his blood sponge would pull from the future a chain of incidents that would eventually well , never mind what . 
Just follow the chain of incidents and see what lies at the end . 
There were certain orders from the higher ups which Robert Grant Burns must heed . 
They were , briefly , the immediate transfer of Muriel Gay to the position of leading woman in a new company which was being sent to Santa Barbara to make light comedy dramas . 
Robert Grant Burns grunted when he read that , though it was a step up the ladder for Muriel which she would be glad to take . 
The next paragraph instructed him to place the young woman who had been doubling for Miss Gay in the position which Miss Gay would leave vacant . 
It was politely suggested that he adapt the leading woman's parts to the ability of this young woman which meant that he must write his scenarios especially with her in mind . 
He was informed that he should feature the young woman in her remarkable horsemanship , etc . 
He said John Jimpson ! just above a whisper . 
He held the letter in his two hands and regarded it strangely . 
Then he looked up , caught the quizzical , inquiring glance of Pete Lowry , and beckoned that secret smiling individual over to him . 
Read that ! he grunted . 
Read it and tell me what you think of it . 
Pete Lowry read it carefully , and grinned when he handed it back . 
He did not , however , tell Robert Grant Burns just exactly what he thought of it . 
He merely said that it had to come sometime , he guessed . 
She can't put over the dramatic stuff , objected Robert Grant Burns . 
She's got the face for it , all right , and when she registers real emotions , it gets over big . 
The bottled up kind of people always do . 
If you ask me , that little girl can act . 
Well , whether she can or not , she's got to try it , said Burns with some foreboding . 
She's been going big , with Gay to do all the close up , dramatic work . 
You must know the rest , as well as I do . 
She'd turn around and give me a call down , and get on her horse and ride off and I and my picture could go to thunder , for all of her . 
That's the point she ain't been through the mill . 
She don't know anything about taking orders from me or anybody else . 
It is a pity that Lite did not hear that ! He might have amended the statement a little . 
Jean had been taking orders enough she knew a great deal about receiving ultimatums . 
The trouble was that she seldom paid any attention to them . 
Lite was accustomed to that , but Robert Grant Burns was not , and it irked him sore . 
Well , she's sure got the screen personality , Pete defended . 
I've said it all along . 
That girl don't have to act . 
Put her in the part , and she is the part ! She's got something better than technique , Burns . 
She puts herself in a character and lives it . 
Put her on a horse and she does , Burns conceded gloomily . 
You can't let your leading character do a whole two or three reel picture on horseback . 
There wouldn't be any contrast . 
Dewitt don't know that girl the way I do . 
There'll be fun when she gets to playing love scenes opposite Lee . 
You better let him take the heavies , and put Gil in for leads , Burns . 
Robert Grant Burns had long ago learned to adjust himself to circumstances which in themselves were not to his liking . 
He adjusted himself now to the idea of making Jean the Western star his employers seemed to think was inevitable . 
That night before he went to bed he wrote a play which had in it fifty two scenes . 
Thirty five of them were what is known technically as exteriors . 
In most of them Jean was to ride on horseback through wild places . 
The rest were dramatic close ups . 
Jean did not hesitate five minutes before she signed the contract which Burns presented to her the next morning . 
She was human , and she had learned enough about the business to see that , speaking from a purely professional point of view , she was extremely fortunate . 
Not every girl , surely , can hope to jump in a few weeks from the lowly position of an inexperienced extra to the supposedly exalted one of leading woman . 
And to her that hundred dollars a week which the contract insured her looked a fortune . 
It spelled home to her , and the vindication of her beloved dad , of whom she dared not think sometimes , it hurt her so . 
Her book was not progressing as fast as she had expected when she began it . 
She had been working at it sporadically now for eight weeks , and she had only ten chapters done , and some of these were terribly short . 
She had even divided those thirty into three parts , and had impartially allotted ten to adventure , ten to mystery and horror , and ten to love making . 
Such an arrangement should please everybody , surely , and need only be worked out smoothly to prove most satisfying . 
But , as it happened , comedy would creep into the mystery and horror , which she mentally lumped together as agony . 
Adventure ran riot , and straight love making chapters made her sleepy , they bored her so . 
She had tried one or two , and she had found it impossible to concentrate her mind upon them . 
So she signed the contract and worked that day so light heartedly that Robert Grant Burns forgot his pessimism . 
She did not see Lite anywhere about the ranch , and so she did not put her hopes and her plans and her good fortune into speech . 
Her Aunt Ella made it perfectly plain to Jean that she , for one , did not consider it respectable . 
Her Aunt Ella said that Carl was going to do something about it , if things weren't changed pretty quick . 
Jean did not appear to regard her aunt's disapproval as of any importance whatever , but the words stung . 
She had herself worried a little over the love making scenes which she knew she would now be called upon to play . 
She would do it , she supposed , if she had to she wanted the salary . 
But she would hate it intolerably . 
She made reply with sarcasm which she knew would particularly irritate her Aunt Ella , and left the house feeling that she never wanted to enter it again as long as she lived . 
She went up quietly enough , however . 
Indeed , she went up so quietly that he started when she appeared almost beside him and picked up Pard's reins , and took the stirrup to mount and ride away . 
I see you've been staking yourself to a new bridle , Carl began in a tone quite as sour as his look . 
You must have bought out all the tin decorations they had in stock , didn't you ? Jean swung up into the saddle before she looked at him . 
If I did , it's my own affair , she retorted . 
I paid for the tin decorations with my own money . 
Oh , you did ! Well , you might have been in better business than paying for that kind of thing . 
Jean could not ride off under the sting of that gratuitous insult . 
She held Pard quiet and looked down at him with hate in her eyes . 
What do you think I would mean ? Let go my bridle . 
I don't want to quarrel with you . 
What did you mean by proving what do you expect to prove ? His hand was heavy on the rein , so that Pard began to fret under the restraint . 
You've got to quit running around all over the country with them show folks , and stay at home and behave yourself . 
You've got to quit hanging out at the Lazy A. I've stood as much as I'm going to stand of your performances . 
She must have dug Pard with her spurs , because the first thing that she realized was the lunge he gave . 
Carl's hold slipped from the rein , as he was jerked sidewise . 
He made an ineffective grab at Jean's skirt , and he called her a name she had never heard spoken before in her life . 
A rod or so away she pulled up and turned to face him , but the words she would have spoken stuck in her throat . 
He called her to come back . 
He made threats of what he would do if she refused to obey him . 
He shook his fist at her . 
He behaved like a man temporarily robbed of his reason his eyes , as he came up glaring at her , were the eyes of a madman . 
Jean felt a tremor of dread while she looked at him and listened to him . 
He was almost within reach of her again when she wheeled and went off up the trail at a run . 
CHAPTER XVI FOR ONCE AT LEAST LITE HAD HIS WAY Half a mile she galloped , and met Lite coming home . 
She glanced over her shoulder before she pulled Pard down to a walk , and Lite's greeting , as he turned and rode alongside her , was a question . 
He wanted to know what was the matter with her . 
He listened with his old manner of repression while she told him , and he made no comment whatever until she had finished . 
You must have made him pretty sore , he said dispassionately . 
I don't think myself that you ought to stay over to the ranch alone . 
Why don't you do as he says ? And go back to the Bar Nothing ? Jean shivered a little . 
Nothing could make me go back there ! Lite , you don't understand . 
He acted like a crazy man and I hadn't said anything to stir him up like that . 
He was Lite , he scared me ! I couldn't stay on the ranch with him . 
I couldn't be in the same room with him . 
You can't go on staying at the Lazy A , Lite told her flatly . 
There's no other place where I'd stay . 
You could , Lite pointed out , stay in town and go back and forth with the rest of the bunch . 
It would be a lot better , any way you look at it . 
It would be a lot worse . 
There's my book I wouldn't have any chance to write on that . 
I'm saving every nickel I possibly can , Lite , and you know what for . 
And there's the bunch I see enough of them during working hours . 
I'd go crazy if I had to live with them . 
I rode over to tell you about it . 
It seemed to be good news , when I left home . 
But now , it's just a part of the black tangle that life's made up of . 
Aunt Ella started things off by telling me what a disgrace it is for me to work in these pictures . 
And Uncle Carl She shivered in spite of herself . 
I just can't understand Uncle Carl's going into such a rage . 
Lite rode for some distance before he lifted his head or spoke . 
Then he looked at Jean , who was staring straight ahead and seeing nothing save what her thoughts pictured . 
He did not say a word about her going to Los Angeles . 
He was the bottled up type the things that hit him hardest he seldom mentioned , so by that rule it might be inferred that her going hit hard . 
He said in the tone of an ultimatum If you're bound to stay at the ranch , you've got to have somebody with you . 
I'll ride in and get Hepsy Atwood in the morning . 
I don't believe you take time to cook enough to eat . 
You can't work on soda crackers and sardines . 
The old lady won't charge much to come and stay with you . 
I'll come over after I'm through work to morrow and help her get things looking a little more like living . 
You'll do nothing of the sort . 
Jean looked at him mutinously . 
I'm all right just as I am . 
I won't have her , Lite . 
Sure , it's settled , Lite agreed , with more than his usual pertinacity . 
I'll have her out here by noon , and a supply of real grub . 
How are you fixed for bedding ? I won't have her , I tell you . 
You're always trying to make me do things I won't do . 
Lite shifted in the saddle with the air of a man who rides at perfect ease with himself and with the world . 
She'll likely have plenty of bedding of her own , he meditated , after a brief silence . 
Lite , if you haul Hepsibah out here , I'll send her back ! I'll haul her out , said Lite in a tone of finality , but you won't send her back . 
She ain't much protection , maybe , he remarked somewhat enigmatically , but it'll beat staying alone nights . 
You you can't tell who might come prowling around the place . 
What do you mean ? Do you know about Jean caught herself on the verge of betrayal . 
You want to keep your gun handy . 
Just on general principles , Lite remonstrated . 
You can't tell it's away off from everywhere . 
I won't have Hepsy Atwood . 
Haven't I enough to drive me mad , without her ? Is there anybody else that you'd rather have ? Lite looked at her speculatively . 
It would be a nuisance having some old lady in the house gabbling and gossiping . 
I'm not the least bit afraid , except , I'm not afraid , and I like to be alone . 
I won't have her , Lite . 
Lite said no more about it until they reached the house , huddled lonesomely against the barren bluff , its windows staring black into the dusk . 
Jean did not seem to expect Lite to dismount , but he did not wait to see what she expected him to do . 
In his most matter of fact manner he dismounted and turned his horse , still saddled , into the stable with Pard . 
He preceded Jean up the path , and went into the kitchen ahead of her lighted a match and found the lamp , and set its flame to brightening the dingy room . 
Jean had not done much in the way of making that part of the house more attractive . 
She used the kitchen to cook in , because the stove was there , and the dishes . 
She had spread an old braided rug over the brown stain on the floor , and she ate in her own room with the door shut . 
Without being told , Lite seemed to know all about her secret aversion to the kitchen . 
He took up the lamp and went now on a tour of inspection through the house . 
Lite went into all the rooms and held the lamp so that its brightness searched out all the corners . 
He looked into the small , stuffy closets . 
He stood in the middle of her father's room and seemed to meditate deeply , while Jean stood in the doorway and watched him inquiringly . 
He came back finally to the kitchen and looked into the cupboard , as though he was taking an inventory of her supply of provisions . 
You might cook me some supper , Jean , he said , when he had put the lamp on the table . 
I see you've got eggs and bacon . 
I'm pretty hungry , for a man that had his dinner six or seven hours ago . 
Jean cooked supper , and they ate together in the kitchen . 
She almost recovered her spirits under the stimulus of Lite's presence , and she quite forgot that he had threatened her with Hepsibah Atwood . 
That mattress in the little bedroom looks all right , he said . 
I'll pack it outside before I go , so it will have all day to morrow out in the sun . 
I'll have Hepsy bring her own bedding . 
Jean would have sworn in perfect good faith that Lite led his horse out of the stable , mounted it , and rode away to the Bar Nothing . 
He did mount and ride away as far as the mouth of the coulee . 
But that night he spent in the loft over the shop , and he did not sleep five minutes during the night . 
Most of the time he spent leaning against his rolled bedding , smoking and gazing at the silent house where Jean slept . 
You may interpret that as you will . 
He did not wait for Jean to order them away . 
He hurried the unloading , released the wagon brake , and drove off . 
So Jean , coming from the spring behind the house , really got her first sight of him as he went rattling down to the gate . 
Jean stood and looked after him , twitched her shoulders in a mental yielding of the point for the time being , and said How da do to the old lady . 
She was not so old , as years go fifty five or thereabouts . 
And she could have whispered into Lite's ear without standing on her toes or asking him to bend his head . 
Lite was a tall man , at that . 
She had gray hair that was frizzy around her brows and at the back of her neck , and she had an Irish disposition without the brogue to go with it . 
The third night after Hepsy's arrival , Jean awoke to hear a man's furtive footsteps in her father's room . 
This was the fifth time that the prowler had come in the night , and custom had dulled her fear a little . 
She had not reached the point yet of getting up to see who it was and what he wanted . 
It was much easier to lie perfectly still with her six shooter gripped in her hand and wait for him to go . 
Jean listened to the faint creaking of old boards which told her that he was approaching Hepsy's room , and she wondered if Hepsy would hear him . 
There was a squeak of the old bedstead that told how a hundred and seventy two pounds of indignant womanhood was rising to do battle . 
The man's footsteps retreated hurriedly . 
Jean heard the kitchen door open and slam shut with a shrill squeal of its rusty hinges , and the sound of a man running down the path . 
She heard Hepsy muttering threats while she followed to the door and looked out , and she heard the muttering continue while Hepsy returned to bed . 
She listened the next morning to Hepsy's colorful account of the affair , but she did not tell Hepsy that the man had been there before . 
She did not even tell her that she had heard the disturbance , and was lying with her gun in her hand ready to shoot if he came into her room . 
For a girl as frank and outspoken as was Jean , she had almost as great a talent as Lite for holding her tongue . 
CHAPTER XVII WHY DON'T YOU GIVE THEM SOMETHING REAL ? Well , you don't seem crazy about it . 
Without realizing it in the least , Jean's opinion had come to have a certain weight with Robert Grant Burns . 
What's wrong with that ? Burns , having sat up until two o'clock to finish that particular scenario to his liking , plainly resented the expression on Jean's face while she read it . 
I'd like to do something real for a change . 
Robert Grant Burns grunted and reached for his slighted brain child . 
What you want ? Mother on , knitting . 
Lover arrives they sit on front steps and spoon . 
Lover hitches up team , girl climbs into wagon , they drive to town . 
Ten scenes of driving to town . 
Lover gets out , ties team in front of courthouse . 
Goes in and gets license . 
Three scenes of license business . 
Two scenes of driving to minister and hitching team to gate . 
One scene of getting to door . 
One scene getting inside the house . 
One scene preacher calling his wife and hired girl . 
One scene Do you take this woman , one scene I do . 
Fifteen scenes getting team untied and driving back to ranch . 
That's about as much pep as there is in real life in the far West , these days . 
Something like that would suit you , maybe . 
It don't suit the people who pay good nickels and dimes to get a thrill , though . 
Neither does this sort of junk , if they've got any sense . 
Real adventures and real tragedies She stopped , and Burns turned his eyes involuntarily toward the kitchen . 
He had heard all about the history of the Lazy A , though he had been very careful to hide the fact that he had heard it . 
Jean's glance , following that of her director , was a revealing one . 
She bit her lip and in a moment she went on , with her chin held a shade higher and her pride revolting against subterfuge . 
I didn't mean that , she said quietly . 
But well , up to a certain point , I don't mind if you put in real things , if it will be good picture stuff . 
You're featuring me , anyway , it seems . 
Her eyes took that farseeing look of the dreamer . 
She was looking full at Burns , but he knew that she did not see him at all . 
She was looking at a mental picture of her own conjuring , he judged . 
He stood still and waited curiously , wondering , to use his manner of speech , what the girl was going to spring now . 
Listen Instead of all this impossible piffle , let's start a real story . 
I I've What kind of a real story ? The tone of Robert Grant Burns was carefully non committal , but his eyes betrayed his eagerness . 
The girl did have some real ideas , sometimes ! And Robert Grant Burns was not the one to refuse a real idea because it did not come from his own brain . 
Suppose suppose they killed my brother when he was about to round them up , and they want to drive me and my mother out of the country . 
Scare us out , you know . 
Well , she hesitated and glanced diffidently at the boys who had edged up to listen , that would leave room for all kinds of feature stuff . 
Say that I have just one or two boys that I can depend on , boys that I know are loyal . 
With an outfit the size of ours , that keeps me in the saddle every day and all day and I would have some narrow escapes , I reckon . 
You've got your rustlers all made to order , only I'd make them up differently , if I were doing it . 
Have them look real , you know , instead of stagey . 
Lee could be one of my loyal cowboys you'd want some dramatic acting , I reckon , and he could do that . 
But I'd want one puncher who can ride and shoot and handle a rope . 
For that , to help me do the real work in the picture , I want Lite Avery . 
There are things I can do that you have never had me do , for the simple reason that you don't know the life well enough ever to think of them . 
Real stunts , not these made to order , shoot the villain and run to the arms of the hero stuff . 
I'd have to have Lite Avery I wouldn't start without him . 
Robert Grant Burns still tried to sound non committal , but he was plainly eager to hear all that she had to say . 
Well , that's the idea . 
They're trying to drive us out of the country , without really hurting me . 
And I've got my mind set on staying . 
Not only that , but I believe they killed my brother , and I'm going to hunt them down and break up their gang or die in the attempt . 
It needn't be overdone in the least , to have thrills enough . 
And there would be all kinds of chance for real range stuff , like the handling of cattle and all that . 
We can use this ranch just as it is , and have the outlaws down next the river . 
I'm glad you haven't taken any scenes that show the ranch as a whole . 
Lite can find him and bring him home . 
Lite would know just how to do that sort of thing , and make people see it's real stuff . 
I believe he'd show he was a real cow puncher , even to the people who never saw one . 
There's an awful lot of difference between the real thing and your actors . 
She was so perfectly sincere and so matter of fact that the men she criticised could do no more than grin . 
You might , for the sake of complications , put a traitor and spy on the ranch . 
Oh , I tell you ! Have Hepsibah be the mother of one of the outlaws . 
She wouldn't need to do any acting you could show her sneaking out in the dark to meet her son and tell him what she has overheard . 
And show her listening , perhaps , through the crack in a door . 
Mrs. Gay would have to be the mother . 
Gil says that Hepsibah has the figure of a comedy cook and what he calls a character face . 
She blushed and laughed a little , and shrugged her shoulders . 
That's just a suggestion , she said with forced lightness . 
I'm subject to attacks of acute imagination , sometimes . 
Don't mind me , Mr. Burns . 
Your scenario is a very nice scenario , I'm sure . 
Nice was not the adjective one would apply to it in sincere admiration . 
Robert Grant Burns himself had mentally called it a hummer . 
He did not reply to Jean's tentative apology for her own plot idea . 
He was thinking about the idea itself . 
Robert Grant Burns was not what one would call petty . 
He would not , for instance , stick to his own story if he considered that Jean's was a better one . 
There was no question of hurt pride to be debated within the mind of him , therefore . 
He was just weighing the idea itself for what it was worth . 
Seems to me your plot idea isn't so much tamer than mine , after all . 
He tested her shrewdly after a prolonged pause . 
What I mean , I can't explain it to you , I'm afraid but I have it in my head . 
She looked at him with that lightening of the eyes which was not a smile , really , but rather the amusement which might grow into laughter later on . 
You'd better fine me for insubordination , she drawled whimsically , and tell me whether it's to be braids or curls , so I can go and make up . 
Gil , she thought , was trying to draw her away before she went too far with her trouble inviting freedom of speech . 
Braids or curls ? she insisted . 
And please , sir , I won't do so no more , honest . 
Robert Grant Burns looked at her from under his eyebrows and made a sound between his grunt of indignation and his chuckle of amusement . 
Sure you won't ? he queried shortly . 
Stay the way you are , if you want to chances are you won't go to work right away , anyhow . 
Jean flashed him a glance of inquiry . 
She pursed her lips with a rueful resignation , and followed Gil to the spring behind the house . 
Say , you mustn't hand out things like that , Jean ! he protested , when they were quite out of sight and hearing of the others . 
Let me give you a tip , girl . 
help it he's putting on some awfully stagey plots , and they cost just as much to produce as Listen here . 
That plot of yours could be worked up into a dandy series the idea of a story running through a lot of pictures is great . 
What I mean is , it's worth something . 
You don't have to give stuff like that away , make him a present of it , you know . 
I just want to put you wise . 
If you've got anything that's worth using , make 'em pay for it . 
Put 'er into scenario form and sell it to 'em . 
Burns has been writing his own plays to fit his company but aside from the features you've been putting into it , it's old stuff . 
He's a darned good director , and all that , but he hasn't got the knack of building real stories . 
You see what I mean . 
You see , you've got the dope on the West , and he knows it . 
Why , I've been watching how he takes the cue from you right along for his features . 
Ever since you told Lee Milligan how to lay a saddle on the ground , Burns has been getting tips and half the time you didn't even know you were giving them . 
Get into this game right , Jean . 
Make 'em pay for that kind of thing . 
Jean regarded him thoughtfully , tempted to yield . 
Mrs. Gay says a hundred dollars a week It's good pay for a beginner . 
She's right , and she's wrong . 
They're featuring you in stuff that nobody else can do . 
You're in a class by yourself , Jean . 
You want to keep that in mind . 
They aren't just trying to be nice to you it's hard boiled business with the Great Western . 
You're going awfully strong with the public . 
Why , my chum writes me that you're announced ahead on the screen at one of the best theaters on Broadway ! Coming Jean Douglas in So and so . 
Do you know what that means ? No , you don't of course not . 
But let me tell you that it means a whole lot ! I wish I'd had a chance to tip you off to a little business caution before you signed that contract . 
That salary clause should have been doctored to make a sliding scale of it . 
As it is , you're stuck for a year at a hundred dollars a week , unless you spring something the contract does not cover . 
Don't give away any more dope . 
You've got an idea there , if Burns will let you work up to it . 
Make 'em pay for it . 
O h h , Gil ! came the throaty call of Burns and Gil , with a last , earnest warning , left her hurriedly . 
Jean sat down on a rock and meditated , her chin in her palms , and her elbows on her knees . 
Vague shadows of thoughts clouded her mind and then slowly clarified into definite ideas . 
Unconsciously she had been growing away from her first formulated plans . 
She was gradually laying aside the idea of reaching wealth and fame by way of the story trail . 
It was too unreal , too fantastic . 
It was almost funny , in the most tragic parts . 
She was ready now to dismiss the book as she had dismissed her earlier ambitions to become a poet . 
But if she and Lite together could really act a story that had the stamp of realism which she instinctively longed for , surely it would be worth while . 
There never had been an organized gang of outlaws just here in this part of the country , but there might have been . 
Her dad could remember when Sid Cummings and his bunch hung out in the Bad Lands fifty miles to the east of there . 
But she had the country , and she had Lite Avery , and to her it was very , very easy to visualize a story that had no foundation in fact . 
It was what she had done ever since she could remember the day dreaming that had protected her from the keen edge of her loneliness . 
Jean smiled abstractedly up at him . 
Robert Grant Burns chuckled fatly and held out his hand with a big , pink cameo on his little finger . 
Let's see what a famous scenario looks like . 
What is it , that plot you were telling me awhile ago ? Why , yes . 
I'm putting on the meat . 
There was a slight hesitation before Jean handed him the pages she had done . 
I expect it's awfully crude , she apologized , with one of her diffident spells . 
I'm afraid you'll laugh at me . 
Robert Grant Burns was reading rapidly , mentally photographing the scenes as he went along . 
He held out his hand again without looking toward her . 
Lemme take your pencil a minute . 
I believe I'd have a panoram of the coulee , a long shot from out there in the meadow . 
And show the brother and you leaving the house and riding toward the camera at the gate , you separate . 
You're going to town , say . 
He rides on toward the hills . 
See what I mean ? He scribbled a couple of lines , crossed out a couple , and went on reading to where he had interrupted Jean in the middle of a sentence . 
Lite , declared Jean with a positiveness that would have thrilled Lite , had he heard her , can put over anything he tries to put over . 
And he'll do it , if I tell him he must ! Which showed what were Jean's ideas , at least on the subject of which was the master . 
What you going to call it a The Perils of the Prairie , say ? Burns abandoned further argument on the subject of Lite's ability . 
Oh , no ! That's awfully cheap . 
That would stamp it as a melodrama before any of the picture appeared on the screen . 
Robert Grant Burns had not been serious he had been testing Jean's originality . 
We'll call it does it hurt if we use real names that we've a right to ? She got a head shake for answer . 
, if I know the game . 
Featuring Jean herself pictures made right at the Lazy A Ranch . 
Say , the dope I can give our publicity man Thereupon Jean , remembering Gil Huntley's lecture on the commercial side of the proposition , startled his enthusiasm with one naive question . 
How much will the Great Western Film Company pay me extra for furnishing the story I play in ? How much ? Robert Grant Burns blurted the words automatically . 
How much ? If it will jump your releases ten per cent . 
they ought to pay me quite a lot more than they're paying me now . 
You're doing pretty well as it is , Burns reminded her , with a visible dampening of his eagerness . 
For keeping your cut and dried stories from falling flat , yes . 
And you'll have to pay Lite a decent salary , or I'll quit right here . 
I'm thinking up stunts for us two that are awfully risky . 
You'll have to pay for that . 
But it will be worth while . 
He would have been exuberant , but he would never have dared to say the things that Jean said , or to have taken the stand that she took . 
Robert Grant Burns found himself very much in the position which Lite had occupied for three years . 
Burns was always extremely firm in the matter of having the goods delivered that was why he was the Great Western's leading director . 
Mere dollars he would yield , if driven into a corner and kept there long enough , but he must have results . 
Several times he grunted words of approbation , and several times he let his fat , black cigar go out , while he visualized the scenes which Jean's flying pencil portrayed . 
I'll go over and get Lite , she said at last , rubbing the cramp out of her writing hand and easing her shoulders from their strain of stooping . 
There'll be time , while you send the machine after some real hats for your rustlers . 
He'll lead the rustlers , and you want the audience to be able to spot him a mile off . 
Lite and I will fix the horse we'll put spots on him like a horse Uncle Carl used to own . 
Maybe you can't get Lite , Burns pointed out , eyeing her over a match blaze . 
He never acted to me like he had the movie fever at all . 
Passes us up with a nod , and has never showed signs of life on the subject . 
Lee can ride pretty well , he added artfully , even if he wasn't born in the saddle . 
And we can fake that rope work . 
All right you can send the machine in with a wire to your company for a leading woman . 
Jean picked up her gloves and turned to pull the door shut behind her , and by other signs and tokens made plain her intention to leave . 
Oh , well , you can see if he'll come . 
I said I'd try him out , but He'll come . 
I told you that before . 
Jean stopped and looked at her director coldly . 
And you'll keep your word . 
And we won't have any fake stuff in this , except the spots on the pinto . 
We wouldn't do that , but there isn't a pinto in the country right now that would be what we want . 
You had better get your bunch together , because I'll be back in a little while with Lite . 
As it happened , Lite was on his way to the Lazy A , and met Jean in the bottom of the sandy hollow . 
His eyes lightened when he saw her come loping up to him . 
But when she was close enough to read the expression of his face , it was schooled again to the frank friendship which Jean always had accepted as a matter of course . 
Hello , Lite ! I've got a job for you with the movies , Jean announced , as soon as she was within speaking distance . 
You can come right back with me and begin . 
It's going to be great . 
And we're going to put in the ranch , the REAL Lazy A , Lite . 
Not these dinky little sets that Burns has toggled up with bits of the bluff showing for background , but the ranch just as it it used to be . 
Jean's eyes grew wistful while she looked at him and told him her plans . 
I'm writing the scenario myself , she explained , and that's why you have to be in it . 
I've written in stuff that the other boys can't do to save their lives . 
Why have you got that stubborn look to your mouth ? Lite , see here . 
Before you say a word , I want to tell you that you are not to refuse this . 
It it means money , Lite for you , and for me , too . 
And that means dad at home again . 
Lite Bite looked at her , looked away and bit his lips . 
It was long since he had seen tears in Jean's steady , brown eyes , and the sight of them hurt him intolerably . 
There was nothing that he could say to strengthen her faith , absolutely nothing . 
He did not see how money could free her father before his sentence expired . 
Money could not help them , except that it could buy back the Lazy A and restock it , and make of it the home it had been three years ago . 
Lite , in the secret heart of him , did not want Jean to set her heart on doing that . 
Lite , you won't spoil everything now , just when I'm given this great opportunity , will you ? Jean's voice was steady again . 
She could even meet his eyes without flinching . 
Gil says it's a great opportunity , in every way . 
It's a series of pictures , really , and they are to be called Jean , of the Lazy A. Gil says they will be advertised a lot , and make me famous . 
I don't care about that but the company will pay me more , and that means that means that I can get out and find Art Osgood sooner , and get dad home . 
And you will have to help . 
The whole thing , as I have planned it , depends upon you , Lite . 
The riding and the roping , and stuff like that , you'll have to do . 
You'll have to work right alongside me in all that outdoor stuff , because I am going to quit doing all those spectacular , stagey stunts , and get down to real business . 
I've made Burns see that there will be money in it for his company , so he is perfectly willing to let me go ahead with it and do it my way . 
Our way , Lite , because , once you start with it , you can help me plan things . 
Whereupon , having said almost everything she could think of that would tend to soften that stubborn look in Lite's face , Jean waited . 
He would then know just where he stood , and what he would have to do , and what legal steps he must take . 
He looked at Jean and grinned a little . 
I'm not pretty enough for a picture actor , he said whimsically . 
Better let me be a rustler and wear a mask , if you don't want folks to throw fits . 
You'll be what I want you to be , Jean told him with the little smile in her eyes that Lite had learned to love more than he could ever say . 
I'm going to make us both famous , Lite . 
Now , come on , Bobby Burns has probably chewed up a whole box of those black cigars , waiting for us to show up . 
It is the story of the Lazy A and the problem that both Jean and Lite were trying to solve . 
Robert Grant Burns had intended taking his company back to Los Angles in August , when the hot winds began to sweep over the range land . 
But Jean's story was going big . 
Jean was throwing herself into the part heart and mind . 
With Lite riding beside her , helping her with all his skill and energy and much enthusiasm , she almost forgot her great undertaking sometimes , she was so engrossed with her work . 
They were just well started when August came with its hot winds . 
They stayed and worked upon the serial until it was finished , and that meant that they stayed until the first October blizzard caught them while they were finishing the last reel . 
You will remember it , if you have been frequenting the silent drama and were fortunate enough to see the picture . 
You may have wondered at the realism of those blizzard scenes , and you may have been curious to know how the camera got the effect . 
Jean was so cold when she turned the rustlers over to Lite that when she started to dismount and fell in a heap , you remember ? she was not acting at all . 
Neither was Lite acting when he plunged through the drift and caught Jean in his arms and held her close against him just as that scene ended . 
In the name of realism they cut the scene , because Lite showed that he forgot all about the outlaws and the part he was playing . 
So they finished the picture , and the whole company packed their trunks thankfully and turned their faces and all their thoughts westward . 
Jean was not at all sure that she wanted to go . 
But there were certain things which comforted her Lite was going along to look after the horses , he told her just the day before they started . 
For Robert Grant Burns , with an eye to the advertising value of the move , had decided that Pard must go with them . 
He would have to hire an express car , anyway , he said , for the automobile and the scenery sets they had used for interiors . 
The car would run in passenger service , Burns said , he'd fix that , so Lite would be right with the company all the way out . 
Jean appreciated all that as a personal favor , which merely proved how unsophisticated she really was . 
She did not know that Robert Grant Burns was thinking chiefly of furnishing material for the publicity man to use in news stories . 
Jean was concerned chiefly with attending to certain matters which seemed to her of vital importance . 
If she must go , there was something which she must do first , something which for three years she had shrunk from doing . 
When she boarded the train at Helena , she did not tell even Lite just where she had been or what she had been doing . 
She did not need to tell Lite . 
He looked into her face and saw there the shadow of the high , stone wall that shut her dad away from the world , and he did not ask a single question . 
No less a man than Dewitt , President of the Great Western Film Company , clasped her hand and held it , while he said how glad he was to welcome her . 
Jean turned toward him abruptly . 
Where's Lite ? Did you send some one to help him with Pard ? she asked with real concern in her voice . 
Those three horses aren't used to towns the size of this , Mr. Burns . 
Lite is going to have his hands full with Pard . 
If you will excuse me , Mr. Dewitt , I think I'll go and see how he's making out . 
Mr. Dewitt glanced over her head and met the delighted grin of Jim Gates , the publicity manager . 
The grin said that Jean was running true to form , which was a pet simile with Jim Gates , and usually accompanied that particular kind of grin . 
I've got men here to help with the horses , Mr. Dewitt assured her , while he gently urged her into the machine . 
They'll be brought right out to the studio . 
I'm taking you home with me in obedience to my wife's , orders . 
She is anxious to meet the young woman who can out ride and out shoot any man on the screen , and can still be sweet and feminine and lovable . 
I'm quoting my wife , you see , though I won't say those are not my sentiments also . 
Your poor wife is going to receive a shock , said Jean in an unimpressed tone . 
But it's dear of her to want to meet me . 
Robert Grant Burns , half facing her on a folding seat , sent her a queer , puzzled glance from under his eyebrows . 
Four months had Jean been working under his direction four months had he studied her , and still she puzzled him . 
Burns made a sound between a grunt and a chuckle , and turned his eyes away immediately but Dewitt chose to make speech upon the subject . 
You haven't spoiled our new leading woman yet , he observed idly . 
Oh , but he has , Jean dissented . 
He has got me trained so that when he says smile , my mouth stretches itself automatically . 
When he says sob , I sob . 
He just snaps his fingers , Mr. Dewitt , and I sit up and go through my tricks very nicely . 
You ought to see how nicely I do them . 
Mr. Dewitt put up a hand and pulled at his close cropped , white mustache that could not hide the twitching of his lips . 
I have seen , he said drily , and leaned forward for a word with the liveried chauffeur . 
Turn up on Broadway and stop at the Victoria , he said , and the chin of the driver dropped an inch to prove he heard . 
Dewitt laid his fingers on Jean's arm to catch her attention . 
Do you see that picture on the billboard over there ? he asked , with a special inflection in his nice , crisp voice . 
Does it look familiar to you ? Jean looked , and pinched her brows together . 
Just at first she did not comprehend . 
There was her name in fancy letters two feet high JEAN , OF THE LAZY A. It blared at the passer by , but it did not look familiar at all . 
Beneath was a high colored poster of a girl on a horse . 
The horse was standing on its hind feet , pawing the air its nostrils flared red its tail swept like a willow plume behind . 
The machine slowed and stopped for the traffic signal at the crossing , and still Jean studied the poster . 
It certainly did not look in the least familiar . 
Is that supposed to be me , on that plum colored horse ? she drawled , when they slid out slowly in the wake of a great truck . 
Why , don't you like it ? Dewitt looked at Jim Gates , who was again grinning delightedly and surreptitiously scribbling something on the margin of a folded paper he was carrying . 
Jean turned upon him a mildly resentful glance . 
Pard is not purple he's brown . 
And he's got the dearest white hoofs and a white sock on his left hind foot and he doesn't snort fire and brimstone , either . 
She glanced anxiously at the jam of wagons and automobiles and clanging street cars . 
I don't know , though , she amended ruefully , I think perhaps he will , too , when he sees all this . 
I really ought to have stayed with him . 
You don't think Lite quite capable of taking care of him . 
Oh , yes , of course he is ! But I just feel that way . 
Dewitt shifted a little , so that he was half facing her , and could look at her without having to turn his head . 
Before they had worked their way into the next block , he decided that Jean was not greatly interested in any of these things , and he wondered why . 
The machine slowed , swung to the curb , and crept forward and stopped in front of the Victoria . 
Dewitt looked at Burns and Pete Lowry , who was on the front seat . 
I thought you'd like to take a glance at the lobby display the Victoria is making , he said casually . 
They are running the Lazy A series , you know , to capacity houses , too , they tell me . 
Shall we get out ? The chauffeur reached back with that gesture of toleration and infinite boredom common to his kind and swung open the door . 
Robert Grant Burns started up . 
Come on , Jean , he said eagerly . 
I don't suppose that eternal calm of yours will ever show a wrinkle on the surface , but let's have a look , anyway . 
Pete Lowry was already out and half way across the pavement . 
Jean herself was not so eager . 
She did not remember when the picture was taken , but she liked that best of all . 
She saw herself leaning out of the window of her room at the Lazy A. She remembered that time . 
She was talking to Gil outside , and Pete had come up and planted his tripod directly in front of her , and had commanded her to hold her pose . 
She did not count them , but she had curious impressions of dozens of pictures of herself scattered here and there along the walls of the long , cool looking lobby . 
Every single one of them was marked Jean , of the Lazy A. Just that . 
It looks awfully queer , said Jean to Mr. Dewitt , who wanted to know what she thought of it all they don't explain what it's all about , or anything . 
Dewitt pulled his mustache and piloted her back to the machine . 
No , echoed Robert Grant Burns , with the fat chuckle of utter content in the knowledge of having achieved something . 
From the looks of things , they don't have to . 
He looked at Jean so intently that she stared back at him , wondering what was the matter and when he saw that she was wondering , he gave a snort . 
Good Lord ! he said to himself , just above a whisper , and looked away , despairing of ever reading the riddle of Jean's unshakable composure . 
Nor was she one to pose the absolute sincerity of her terrific frankness was what had worried Robert Grant Burns most . 
She must know that she had jumped into the front rank of popular actresses , and stood out before them all , for the time being , at least . 
She had reached what seemed to Robert Grant Burns the final heights . 
As a matter of fact , having accepted the fact that she seemed to have made a success of her pictures , her thoughts had drifted to what seemed to her more vital . 
Had she done wrong to come away out here , away from her problem ? The distance worried her . 
She had not even found out who was the mysterious night prowler , or what he wanted . 
He had never come again , after that night when Hepsy had scared him away . 
She wished now that she had told Lite about it . 
She was foolish not to have done something , instead of sticking her head under the bedclothes and just shivering till he left . 
Lite would have found out who the man was , and what he wanted . 
Lite would never have let him come and go like that . 
But the visits had seemed so absolutely without reason . 
There was nothing to steal , and nothing to find . 
Still , she wished she had told Lite , and let him find out who it was . 
Then her talk with the great lawyer had been disquieting . 
He had not wanted to name his fee for defending her dad but when he had named it , it did not seem so enormous as she had imagined it to be . 
He had asked a great many questions , and most of them puzzled Jean . 
That , he said , had already been arranged , though he did not feel at liberty to name his client . 
But he wanted to assure her that everything was being done that could be done . 
She herself had seen her father . 
She shrank within herself and tried not to think of that horrible meeting . 
Her soul writhed under the tormenting memory of how she had seen him . 
She had not been able to talk to him at all , scarcely . 
The words would not come . 
She had said that she and Lite were on their way to Los Angeles , and would be there all winter . 
He had patted her shoulder with a tragic apathy in his manner , and had said that the change would do her good . 
And that was all she could remember that they had talked about . 
It was the same when , the next day , Dewitt himself took her over to the big plant which he spoke of as the studio . 
It was immense , and yet Jean seemed unimpressed . 
She was gladder to see Pard and Lite again than she was to meet the six hundred a week star whose popularity she seemed in a fair way to outrival . 
She felt the warm air of good fellowship that followed her everywhere . 
All of these people seemed to accept her at once as one of themselves . 
When she noticed it , she was amused at the way the extras stood back and looked at her and whispered together . 
More than once she overheard what seemed almost to have become a catch phrase out here Jean of the lazy A was the phrase . 
Jean was not made of wood , understand . 
In a manner she recognized all these little tributes , and to a certain degree she appreciated them . 
For the easier they made life for her , the greater contrast did they make between her and her dad . 
Dewitt himself sensed that something was wrong with her . 
She was not her natural self , and he knew it , though his acquaintance with her was a matter of hours only . 
Part of his business it was to study people , to read them he read Jean now , in a general way . 
Not being a clairvoyant , he of course had no inkling of the very real troubles that filled her mind , though the effect of those troubles he saw quite plainly . 
He watched her quietly for a day , and then he applied the best remedy he knew . 
You've just finished a long , hard piece of work , he said in his crisp , matter of fact way , on the second morning after her arrival . 
I consider you worth it , he added , with a quieting gesture of uplifted hand , or you may be sure I wouldn't pay it . 
Get some nice old lady to chaperone you , and go and play . 
The ocean is good get somewhere on the beach . 
Or go to Catalina and play there . 
Or stay here , and go to the movies . 
Go and see Jean , of the Lazy A , and watch how the audience lives with her on the screen . 
Go up and talk to the wife . 
She told me to bring you up for dinner . 
You go climb into my machine , and tell Bob to take you to the house now . 
Run along , Jean of the Lazy A ! This is an order from your chief . 
She held the roses , that she almost hated for their very beauty and fragrance , close pressed in her arms , while she went away toward the machine . 
Dewitt looked after her , thought she meant to obey him , and turned to greet a great man of the town who had been waiting for five minutes to speak to him . 
Jean did not climb into the purple car and tell Bob to drive her to the house . 
She walked past it without even noticing that it stood there , an aristocrat among the other machines parked behind the great studio that looked like a long , low warehouse . 
She knew the straightest , shortest trail to the corrals , you may be sure of that . 
Pard was standing in a far corner under a shed , switching his tail methodically at the October crop of flies . 
Pard was not worrying about anything . 
He looked so luxuriously happy that Jean had not the heart to disturb him , even with her comfort seeking caresses . 
She leaned her elbows on the corral gate and watched him awhile . 
She asked a bashful , gum chewing youth if he could tell her where to find Lite Avery . 
But the youth seemed never to have heard of Lite Avery , and Jean was too miserable to explain and describe Lite , and insist upon seeing him . 
She walked over to the nearest car line and caught the next street car for the city . 
Part of her chief's orders at least she would obey . 
She wanted to see the ranch again . 
She wanted to see the dear , familiar line of the old bluff that framed the coulee , and ride again with Lite through those wild places they had chosen for the pictures . 
She wanted to lose herself for a little while among the hills that were home . 
CHAPTER XX CHANCE TAKES A HAND A huge pipe organ was filling the theater with a vast undertone that was like the whispering surge of a great wind . 
Jean went into the soft twilight and sat down , feeling that she had shut herself away from the harsh , horrible world that held so much of suffering . 
She sighed and leaned her head back against the curtained enclosure of the loges , and closed her eyes and listened to the big , sweeping harmonies that were yet so subdued . 
Down next the river , in a sheltered little coulee , there was a group of great bull pines . 
Sometimes she had gone there and leaned against a tree trunk , and had shut her eyes and listened to the vast symphony which the wind and the water played together . 
She forgot that she had come to see a picture which she had helped to create . 
But the music changed , and her mood changed with it . 
A Mexican series of educational pictures were being shown . 
Jean looked , and leaned forward with a little gasp . 
But even as she fixed her eyes and startled attention upon it , that scene was gone , and she was reading mechanically of refugees fleeing to the border line . 
She must have been asleep , she told herself , and had gotten things mixed up in her dreams . 
She shook herself mentally and remembered that she ought to take off her hat and she tried to fix her mind upon the pictures . 
Perhaps she had been mistaken perhaps she had not seen what she believed she had seen . 
Then she had , for the first time in her life , the strange experience of seeing herself as others saw her . 
The screen announcement and expectant stir that greeted it caught her attention , and pulled her back from the whirl of conjecture into which she had been plunged . 
She watched , and she saw herself ride up to the foreground on Pard . 
She saw herself look straight out at the audience with that peculiar little easing of the lips and the lightening of the eyes which was just the infectious beginning of a smile . 
Involuntarily she smiled back at her pictured self , just as every one else was smiling back . 
For that , you must know , was what had first endeared her so to the public the human quality that compelled instinctive response from those who looked at her . 
So Jean in the loge smiled at Jean on the screen . 
Jean in the loge heard the ripple of applause among the audience and responded to it with a perfectly human thrill . 
Presently she was back at the Lazy A , living again the scenes which she herself had created . 
This was the fourth or fifth picture , she did not at the moment remember just which . 
You will remember that Robert Grant Burns had told Pete to take all of that encounter , and he had later told Jean to write her scenario so as to include that incident . 
Jean blushed when she saw herself ride up to those three and throw down on them with her gun . 
She had been terribly chagrined over that performance ! But now it looked awfully real , she told herself with a little glow of pride . 
Poor old Gil ! They hadn't caught her roping him , anyway , and she was glad of that . 
He would have looked absurd , and those people would have laughed at him . 
She loved Pard , for the way he tossed his head and whirled the cricket in his bit with his tongue , and obeyed the slightest touch on the rein . 
The audience applauded that cattle drive and Jean was almost betrayed into applauding it herself . 
Lite rode close to the camera and looked straight at her , and Jean bit her lips sharply as tears stung her lashes for some inexplicable reason . 
Jean's eyes softened , cleared , and while she looked , her lips parted a little , and she did not know that she was smiling . 
There was the faint aroma of tobacco about the place . 
Jean had known at once just why that bed was there , and almost she knew how long it had been there . 
She had never once hinted that she knew and Lite would never tell her , by look or word , that he was watching her welfare . 
Here came Gil , dashing up to the brow of the hill , dismounting and creeping behind a rock , that he might watch them working with the cattle in the valley below . 
Jean met his pictured approach with a little smile of welcome . 
Gil had taken it all in good faith the camera proved now how well he had followed her instructions . 
She blushed a little and wondered if Gil remembered that tentative love making scene which Burns had unconsciously cut short with a bellowing order to rehearse the next scene . 
It was wonderful , it was fascinating to sit there and see those days of hard , absorbing work relived in the story she had created . 
Jean lost herself in watching how Jean of the Lazy A came and went and lived her life bravely in the midst of so much that was hard . 
There'll be a cut back to show her down on her knees crying before Bob's chair . 
Let that tired , worried look come into your face , the load's dropping on to your shoulders again , that kind of dope . 
Get me ? Jean in the loge remembered how she had been told to do this deliberately , just out of her imagination . 
Then Jean in the loge looked and saw screen Jean's mother kneeling before Bob's chair and sobbing so that her shoulders shook . 
She looked and saw screen Jean stop whistling and swinging her quirt saw her stand still in the path and listen saw the smile fade out of her eyes . 
Jean in the loge thought suddenly of that moment when she had looked at dad coming in where she waited , and swallowed a lump in her throat . 
Jean in the loge gave a sigh of relaxed tension and looked around her . 
The seats were nearly all full , and every one was gazing fixedly forward , lost in the pictured story of Jean on the screen . 
She knew , furthermore , that she had done them remarkably well so well that people responded to every emotion she presented to them . 
She was surprised at the vividness of every one of those cut and dried scenes . 
They imposed upon her , even , after all the work and fussing she had gone through to get them to Burns' liking . 
And there , in the cool gloom of the Victoria , Jean for the first time realized to the full the true ability of Robert Grant Burns . 
For the first time she really appreciated him and respected him , and was grateful to him for what he had taught her to do . 
Her mood changed abruptly when the Jean picture ended . 
The music changed to the strain that had filled the great place when she entered , nearly an hour before . 
Warring Mexico ! That was the name of it a Lubin special release , of the kind technically called educational . 
Jean held her breath , waiting for the scene that might mean so much to her . 
There this must be it , she thought with a flush of inner excitement . 
This surely must be the one NOGALES , MEXICO . 
FEDERAL TROOPS OF GENERAL KOSTERLISKY , WITH AMERICAN SOLDIERS OF FORTUNE SERVING ON STAFF OF NOTED GENERAL . 
Jean had it stamped indelibly upon her brain . 
She waited , with a quick intake of breath when the picture stood out with a sudden clarity before her eyes . 
A close up group of officers and men , and some of the men Americans in face , dress , and manner . 
But it was one man , and one only , at whom she looked . 
Standing there with his weight all on one foot , in that attitude which cowboys call hipshot . 
Art Osgood ! She was sure of it ! Her hands clenched in her lap . 
Art Osgood , at Nogales , Mexico . 
Serving on the staff of General Kosterlisky . 
He smiled anew and lifted his American made Stetson a few inches above his head and held it so in salute . 
Just so had he lifted and held his hat high one day , when she had turned and ridden away from him down the trail . 
Jean caught herself just as her lips opened to call out to him in recognition and sharp reproach . 
He turned and walked away to where the troopers were massed in the background . 
She waited a minute , staring abstractedly at the refugees who were presented next . 
She wished that she knew when the picture had been taken , how long ago . 
Still , this was , in a sense , a news release , and therefore in all probability hurried to the public . 
Art Osgood might still be at Nogales , Mexico , wherever that was . 
He might and Jean made up her mind and laid her plans while she sat there pinning on her hat . 
She got up quietly and slipped out . 
She was going to Nogales , Mexico , wherever that was . 
She was going to get Art Osgood , and she didn't care whether she had to fight her way clear through Warring Mexico . 
She would find him and get him and bring him back . 
Why , Lite ! she said , a little startled . 
Why , Jean ! he mimicked , in the bantering voice that was like home to her . 
Don't rush off haven't seen you to day . 
Wait till I get you a ticket , and then you come back and help me admire ourselves . 
I came down on a long lope when somebody said you caught a street car headed this way . 
Thought maybe I'd run across you here . 
Knew you couldn't stay away much longer from seeing how you look . 
Ain't too proud to sit alongside a rough neck puncher , are you ? Jean looked at him understandingly . 
She unpinned her hat which she had been at some pains to adjust at the exact angle decreed by fashion . 
Yes , I'll go back with you , she drawled . 
I want to see how you like the sight of yourself just as you are . 
It it's good for one , after the first shock wears off . 
That would make her doubly sure of her self . 
She could do what she meant to do without any misgivings whatsoever . 
She could afford to wait a little while and have the pleasure of Lite's presence beside her . 
Lite was homesick and lonesome she felt it in every tone and in every look almost as homesick and lonesome as she was herself . 
Lite believed Art Osgood was in the Klondyke . 
She would wait and see what he believed after he had seen that Nogales picture She waited . 
When it came at last , Jean turned her head and watched Lite . 
And Lite gave a real start and said something under his breath , and plucked at her sleeve afterwards to attract her attention . 
Look quick ! That fellow standing there with his arms folded . 
Skin me alive if it isn't Art Osgood ! Are you sure ? Jean studied him . 
Sure ? Where're your eyes ? Look at him ! It sure ain't anybody else , Jean . 
At any rate , she watched him stalk away on his high heeled riding boots , and she thought that his mind was perfectly at ease . 
This young man appeared to know a great deal , and to be almost eager to pass along his wisdom . 
Here the nice young man became facetious . 
Bible tells us a city divided against itself cannot stand , he informed Jean quite gratuitously . 
Well , maybe that's straight goods , too . 
But Nogales is cut right through at the waist line with the international boundary line . 
United States customhouse on one corner of the street , Mexican customhouse in talking distance on the other corner . 
Great place for holdups , that ! This was a joke , and Jean smiled obligingly . 
First the United States holds you up , and then the Mexicans . 
You get it coming and going . 
Well , Nogales don't have to stand . 
Jean was interested , and she did not discourage the nice young man . 
She let him say all he could think of on the subject of Nogales and the Federal troops stationed there , and on warring Mexico generally . 
When she left him , she felt as if she knew a great deal about the end of her journey . 
So she smiled and thanked the nice young man in that soft drawl that lingered pleasantly in his memory , and went over to another window and bought a ticket to Nogales . 
She moved farther along to another window and secured a Pullman ticket which gave her lower five in car four for her comfort . 
With an impulse of wanting to let her Uncle Carl know that she was not forgetting her mission , she sent him this laconic telegram Have located Art . 
Will bring him back with me . 
After that , she went home and packed a suit case and her six shooter and belt . 
It was all just as the nice young man had told her . 
Jean arrived in Tucson , and she left on time , on the once a day train to Nogales . 
Lite also arrived in Tucson on time , though Jean did not see him , since he descended from the chair car with some caution just as she went into the depot . 
Lite saw the last pair of wheels it owned go clipping over the switch , and he stood in the middle of the track and swore . 
Then he went to the telegraph office and found out that a freight left for Nogales in ten minutes . 
He hunted up the conductor and did things to his bank roll , and afterwards climbed into the caboose on the sidetrack . 
Lite has been so careful to keep in the background , through all these chapters , that it seems a shame to tell on him now . 
But I am going to say that , little as Jean suspected it , he had been quite as interested in finding Art Osgood as had she herself . 
But it just shows how great minds run in the same channel and how , without suspecting one another , these two started at the same time upon the same quest . 
Jean stared out over the barrenness that was not like the barrenness of Montana , and tried not to think that perhaps Art Osgood had by this time drifted on into obscurity . 
Still , if he had drifted on , surely she could trace him , since he had been serving on the staff of a general and should therefore be pretty well known . 
What she really hated most to think of was the possibility that he might have been killed . 
They did get killed , sometimes , down there where there was so much fighting going on all the time . 
She went back and dipped fastidious fingers into the box of chocolates , and settled herself to nibble candy and wait for what might come . 
She felt very calm and self possessed and sure of herself . 
Her only fear was that Art Osgood might have been killed , and his lips closed for all time . 
So they rattled away through the barrenness and drew near to Nogales . 
So far , everything had run smoothly , like a well staged play . 
The trip from Tucson had been terribly tiresome she was weary in every fibre , it seemed to her . 
But for all that she intended , sometime that evening , to meet Art Osgood if he were in town . 
She intended to take him with her on the train that left the next morning . 
She thought it would be a good idea to rest now , and to proceed deliberately , lest she frustrate all her plans by over eagerness . 
Perhaps she slept a little while she lay upon the bed and schooled herself to calmness . 
A band , somewhere , playing a pulsing Spanish air , brought her to her feet . 
She went to the window and looked out , and saw that the street lay cool and sunless with the coming of dusk . 
From the American customhouse just on the opposite corner came Lite Avery , stalking leisurely along in his high heeled riding boots . 
Jean drew back with a little flutter of the pulse and watched him , wondering how he came to be in Nogales . 
That at least was understandable . 
But to her there was something uncanny about his being here in Nogales . 
When he was gone , she stepped out through the open window to the veranda that ran the whole length of the hotel , and looked across the street into Mexico . 
She was , she decided critically , about fifteen feet from the boundary line . 
Just across the street fluttered the Mexican flag from the Mexican customhouse . 
A Mexican guard lounged against the wall , his swarthy face mask like in its calm . 
The boom of the sundown salute followed immediately after . 
In the street below her , Mexicans and Americans mingled amiably and sauntered here and there , killing time during that bored interval between eating and the evening's amusement . 
Jean looked them over curiously . 
Mexicans they were not , though they had some of the dress which belonged on that side of the boundary . 
Americans they were one knew by the set of their shoulders , by the little traits of race which have nothing to do with complexion or speech . 
Jean caught her breath and leaned forward . 
There was Art Osgood , standing with his back toward her and with one palm spread upon his hip in the attitude she knew so well . 
Jean , now that the crisis had arrived , used her woman's wile , rather than the harsher but perhaps less effective weapons of a man . 
Jean's fingers were close to her gun , though she was not conscious of it , or of the strained , tense muscles that waited the next move . 
Art , contrary to her expectations , did the most natural thing in the world . 
He grinned and came hurrying toward her with the long , eager steps of one who goes to greet a friend after an absence that makes of that meeting an event . 
Jean watched him cross the street . 
She waited , dazed by the instant success of her ruse , while he disappeared under the veranda . 
She heard his feet upon the stairs . 
She heard him come striding down the hall to the glass paneled door . 
She saw him coming toward her , still grinning in his joy at the meeting . 
Jean Douglas ! By all that's lucky ! he was exclaiming . 
Where in the world did you light down from ? He came to a stop directly in front of her , and held out his hand in unsuspecting friendship . 
CHAPTER XXII JEAN MEETS ONE CRISIS AND CONFRONTS ANOTHER Well , say ! This is like seeing you walk out of that picture that's running at the Teatro Palacia . 
How is Lite , anyway ? If Art Osgood felt any embarrassment over meeting her , he certainly gave no sign of it . 
He sat down on the railing , pushed back his hat , and looked as though he was preparing for a real soul feast of reminiscent gossip . 
Just get in ? he asked , by way of opening wider the channel of talk . 
He lighted a cigarette and flipped the match down into the street . 
I've been here three or four months . 
I'm part of the Mexican revolution , though I don't reckon I look it . 
We been keeping things pretty well stirred up , down this way . 
You looking for picture dope ? Lubin folks are copping all kinds of good stuff here . 
You ain't with them , are you ? Jean braced herself against slipping into easy conver sation with this man who seemed so friendly and unsuspicious and so conscience free . 
Killing a man , she thought , evidently did not seem to him a matter of any moment perhaps because he had since then become a professional killer of men . 
After planning exactly how she should meet any contingency that might arise , she found herself baffled . 
She had not expected to meet this attitude . 
She was not prepared to meet it . 
She had taken it for granted that Art Osgood would shun a meeting that she would have to force him to face her . 
She eyed him uncertainly , trying to adjust herself to this emergency . 
Art came to a pause and looked at her inquiringly . 
What's the matter ? he demanded . 
I know the symptoms , believe me ! You're sore about something I've said . 
What , don't you like to have anybody talk about you being a movie queen ? You sure are all of that . 
You've got a license to be proud of yourself . 
Or maybe you didn't know you was speaking to a Mexican soldier , or something like that . 
He made a move to rise . 
Ex cuse ME , if I've said something I hadn't ought . 
I'll beat it , while the beating's good . 
You'll stay right where you are . 
His frank acceptance of her hostile attitude steadied Jean . 
Do you think I came all the way down here just to say hello ? Search me . 
I never could keep track of what you thought and what you meant , and I guess you haven't grown any easier to read since I saw you last . 
I'll be darned if I know what you came for but it's a cinch you didn't come just to be riding on the cars . 
No , drawled Jean , watching him . 
Art Osgood stared , while his cheeks darkened with the flush of confusion . 
I sure wish that was the truth , he said . 
Jean , you never would have to go very far after any man with two eyes in his head . 
I did , said Jean calmly . 
I'd have found you if I had to hunt all through Mexico and fight both armies for you . 
Jean ! There was a queer , pleading note in Art's voice . 
I wish I could believe that , but I can't . 
You were a fool when you thought you could go away and no one think you knew anything at all about Johnny Croft . 
Art's fingers had been picking at a loose splinter on the wooden rail whereon he sat . 
He looked down at it , jerked it loose with a sharp twist , and began snapping off little bits with his thumb and forefinger . 
In a minute he looked up at Jean , and his eyes were different . 
They were not hostile they were merely cold and watchful and questioning Well ? Well , somebody did think so . 
I've thought so for three years , and so I'm here . 
Still , her voice had sounded calm enough . 
Art Osgood sat with his shoulders drooped forward a little , and painstakingly snipped off tiny bits of the splinter . 
After a short silence , he turned his head and looked at her again . 
I shouldn't think you'd want to stir up that trouble after all this while , he said . 
I can't see , myself , why you'd want to bother hunting me up on account of that . 
Jean weighed his words , his look , his manner , and got no clue at all to what was going on back of his eyes . 
On the surface , he was just a tanned , fairly good looking young man who has been reluctantly drawn into an unpleasant subject . 
Well , I did consider it worth while bothering to hunt you up , she told him flatly . 
If you don't think it's important , you at least won't object to going back with me ? Again his glance went to her face , plainly startled . 
Go back with you ? he repeated . 
What for ? Well Jean still had some trouble with her breath and to keep her quiet , smooth drawl , let's make it a woman's reason . 
Art's face settled to a certain hardness that still was not hostile . 
Becauses don't go , he said . 
Not with a girl like you they might with some . 
What do you want me to go back for ? Well , I want you to go because I want to clear things up , about Johnny Croft . 
It's time it was cleared up . 
Well , I don't see yet what's back of that first BECAUSE , he sparred . 
There's nothing I can do to clear up anything . 
Art , don't lie to me about it . 
I know What do you know ? Art's eyes never left her face , now . 
They seemed to be boring into her brain . 
Jean began to feel a certain confusion . 
To be sure , she had never had any experience whatever with fugitive murderers but no one would ever expect one to act like this . 
A little more , she thought resentfully , and he would be making her feel as if she were the guilty person . 
She straightened herself and stared back at him . 
I know you left because you you didn't want to stay and face things . 
I I have felt as if I could kill you , almost , for what you have done . 
I I don't see how you can SIT there and and look at me that way . 
She stopped and braced herself . 
I don't want to argue about it . 
I came here to make you go back and face things . 
It's horrible She was thinking of her father then , and she could not go on . 
Jean , you're all wrong . 
I don't know what idea you've got , but you may as well get one or two things straight . 
Maybe you do feel like killing me but I don't know what for . 
I haven't the slightest notion of going back there's nothing I could clear up , if I did go . 
Jean looked at him dumbly . 
She supposed she should have to force him to go , after all . 
Of course , you couldn't expect that a man who had committed a crime will admit it to the first questioner you couldn't expect him to go back willingly and face the penalty . 
She would have to use her gun perhaps even call on Lite , since Lite had followed her . 
Lite's hand , also , was close to his gun , to be perfectly sure of Jean's safety . 
But he had no intention of spoiling her feeling of independence if he could help it . 
He had lots of faith in Jean . 
What has cropped up , anyway ? Art asked her curiously , as if he had been puzzling over her reasons for being there . 
I thought that affair was settled long ago , when it happened . 
What innocent man ? Art threw away the stub of the splinter and sat up straight . 
I knew Johnny had been around knocking the outfit , and making some threats , and saying things he had no business to say . 
I never did have any use for him , just because he was so mouthy . 
I wasn't surprised to hear how it ended up . 
To hear ! You weren't there , when it happened ? Jean was watching him for some betraying emotion , some sign that she had struck home . 
She got a quick , sharp glance from him , as if he were trying to guess just how much she knew . 
Why should I have been there ? The last time I was ever at the Lazy A , he stated distinctly , was the day before I left . 
I didn't go any farther than the gate then . 
I had a letter for your father , and I met him at the gate and gave it to him . 
A letter for dad ? It was not much , but it was better than nothing . 
Jean thought she might lead him on to something more . 
Yes ! A note , or a letter . 
Carl sent me over with it . 
Carl ? What was it about ? I never heard I never read it . 
Ask your dad what it was about , why don't you ? I don't reckon it was anything particular . 
Maybe it was , though . 
She would pretend to be interested in the letter , and trip Art somehow when he was off his guard . 
Are you sure that it was the day before you left ? Yes . 
Some high talk in the street caught his attention , and Art turned and looked down . 
Jean caught at the chance to study his averted face , but she could not read innocence or guilt there . 
Art , she decided , was not as transparent as she had always believed him to be . 
He turned back and met her look . 
I know it was the day before . 
Why ? Oh , I wondered . 
Dad didn't say What did he do with it the letter ? He opened it and read it . 
A smile of amused understanding of her finesse curled Art's lips . 
And he stuck it in the pocket of his chaps and went on to wherever he was going . 
His eyes challenged her impishly . 
And it was from Uncle Carl , you say ? Art hesitated , and the smile left his lips . 
It it was from Carl , yes . 
Why ? Oh , I just wondered . 
Jean was wondering why he had stopped smiling , all at once , and why he hesitated . 
Anyway , that's the last time I was ever over there . 
Ask dad ! Jean's anger flamed out suddenly . 
Art Osgood , when I think of dad , I wonder why I don't shoot you ! I wonder how you dare sit there and look me in the face . 
My father ! Jean's voice broke upon the word . 
And you She did not attempt to finish the charge . 
Art sat looking at her with a queer intensity . 
Your father ! he repeated . 
Aleck ! I never knew that , Jean . 
Take my word , I never knew that ! He seemed to be thinking pretty fast . 
Where's Carl at ? he asked irrelevantly . 
Uncle Carl ? He's home , running both ranches . 
I I never could make Uncle Carl see that you must have been the one . 
Been the one that shot Crofty , you mean ? Art gave a short laugh . 
He got up and stood in front of her . 
Good reason why he couldn't see it ! He knows well enough I didn't do it . 
He bit his lips then , as if he feared that he had said too much . 
Uncle Carl knows ? Then why doesn't he tell ? It wasn't dad ! Jean took a defiant step toward him . 
Art Osgood , if you dare say it was dad , I I'll kill you ! Art smiled at her with a brief lightening of his eyes . 
I believe you would , at that , he said soberly . 
But it wasn't your dad , Jean . 
Who was it ? I don't know . 
You do ! You do know , Art Osgood ! And you ran off and they gave dad eight years Art spoke one word under his breath , and that word was profane . 
I don't see how that could be , he said after a minute . 
She was biting her lips to keep back the tears . 
It was the lack of opposition , that lack of fear , that baffled her so . 
Art , she felt dimly , must be very sure of his own position was it because he was so close to the Mexican line ? Jean glanced desperately that way . 
The guard over there spoke to a friend , and she could hear the words he said . 
She must not let Art Osgood go back across that street . 
She could cover him with her gun Art knew how well she could use it ! and she would call for an American officer and have him arrested . 
Or , Lite was somewhere below she would call for Lite , and he could go and get an officer and a warrant . 
How soon you going back ? Art asked abruptly , as though he had been pondering a problem and had reached the solution . 
I'll have to get a leave of absence , or go down on the books as a deserter and I wouldn't want that . 
I can get it , all right . 
I'll go back with you and straighten this thing out , if it's the way you say it is . 
I sure didn't know they'd pulled your dad for it , Jean . 
This , coming so close upon the heels of her own decision , set Jean all at sea again . 
She looked at him doubtfully . 
I thought you said you didn't know , and you wouldn't go back . 
I'll lie any time to help a friend , he admitted frankly . 
What I do draw the line at is lying to help some cowardly cuss double cross a man . 
Your father got the double cross I don't stand for anything like that . 
Say , Jean ! Want to go across with me and meet the general ? You can make my talk a whole lot stronger by telling what you came for . 
I'll get leave , all right , then . 
And you'll know for sure that I'm playing straight . 
You see that two story 'dobe about half way down the block , the one with the Mexican flag over it ? He pointed . 
Want to go over ? Any objections to taking me along with you ? This was Lite , coming nonchalantly toward them from the doorway . 
Lite was still perfectly willing to let Jean manage this affair in her own way , but that did not mean that he would not continue to watch over her . 
Lite was much like a man who lets a small boy believe he is driving a skittish team all alone . 
Jean believed that she was acting alone in this , as in everything else . 
She had yet to learn that Lite had for three years been always at hand , ready to take the lines if the team proved too fractious for her . 
Art turned and put out his hand . 
Why , hello , Lite ! Sure , you can come along glad to have you . 
I'll gamble you've heard all we've been talking about , he said . 
That would be you , all right ! So you don't need any wising up . 
Come on I want to catch the chief before he goes off somewhere . 
Even Jean was smiling , in a tired , anxious way . 
She walked close to Lite and never once asked him how he came to be there , or why . 
She was glad that he was there . 
She was glad to shift the whole matter to his broad shoulders now , and let him take the lead . 
They had a real Mexican dinner in a queer little adobe place where Art advised them quite seriously never to come alone . 
Lite ate mostly with his left hand . 
That might have been pure chance , and it might not . 
But Art was evidently playing fair . 
A little later they came back to the Casa del Sonora , and Jean went up to her room feeling that a great burden had been lifted from her shoulders . 
Lite and Art Osgood were out on the veranda , gossiping of the range , and in Art's pocket was a month's leave of absence from his duties . 
Once she heard Lite laugh , and she stood with one hand full of hairpins and the other holding the brush and listened , and smiled a little . 
It all sounded very companionable , very care free , not in the least as though they were about to clear up an old wrong . 
Lite was on guard he would not lose his caution just because Art seemed friendly and helpfully inclined , and had meant no treachery over in that queer restaurant . 
Lite would not be easily tricked . 
So she presently fell asleep . 
CHAPTER XXIII A LITTLE ENLIGHTENMENT Sometime in the night Jean awoke to hear footsteps in the corridor outside her room . 
She sat up with a start , and her right hand went groping for her gun . 
Just for the moment she thought that she was in her room at the Lazy A , and that the night prowler had come and was beginning his stealthy search of the house . 
Then she heard some one down in the street call out a swift sentence in Spanish , and get a laugh for an answer . 
But Jean , now that she knew where she was , lay wide awake and thinking . 
Suddenly she sat up again , staring straight before her . 
Pockets in chaps were not , as a general thing , much used . 
Men carried matches in them sometimes , or money . 
The flap over her dad's chap pocket was buttoned down , and the leather was stiff perhaps the letter was there yet . 
She got up and turned on the light , and looked at her watch . 
She wanted to start then , that instant , for Los Angeles . 
There was no particular reason for believing that this was of any particular importance , or had any bearing whatever upon the crime . 
But the idea was there , and it nagged at her . 
Her watch said that it was twenty five minutes after two o'clock . 
The train , Lite had told her , would leave for Tucson at seven forty five in the morning . 
But she could not sleep . 
She kept thinking of the letter , and trying to imagine what clue it could possibly give if she found it still in the pocket . 
Carl had sent it , Art said . 
All at once , like a flashlight turned upon a dark corner of her mind , she remembered something about that night . 
She remembered how bitter her uncle had become . 
Then he had gone into that rage , and she had not at the time seen any connection between her words and his raving anger . 
But perhaps there was a connection . 
Perhaps Oh , my goodness ! she exclaimed aloud . 
She was remembering the telegram which she had sent him just before she left Los Angeles for Nogales . 
She remembered how he had changed when he found that her father was being punished for the crime . 
She did not know , just yet , how all these tangled facts were going to work out . 
She had not yet come to the final question that she would presently be asking herself . 
She got up and dressed unfastening her window , she stepped out on the veranda . 
The street was quiet at that time in the morning . 
A sentry stood on guard at the corner , and here and there a light flared in some window where others were wakeful . 
But for the most part the town lay asleep . 
Over in what was really the Mexican quarter , three or four roosters were crowing as if they would never leave off . 
She shivered , and turned back to get the gay serape which she had bought from an old Mexican woman when they were coming out of that queer restaurant last evening . 
When she came out again , Lite was standing there , smoking a cigarette and leaning against a post . 
You'd better get some sleep , Jean , he reproved her when she came and stood beside him . 
You had a pretty hard day yesterday and to day won't be any easier . 
Better go back and lie down . 
Jean merely pulled the serape snugger about her shoulders and sat down sidewise upon the railing . 
I couldn't sleep , she said . 
I got myself all worked up trying to make out what he was trying to say in his sleep , and then I found out it wasn't my kinda talk , anyway . 
What's the matter that you can't sleep ? Jean stared down at the shadowy street . 
A dog ran out from somewhere , sniffed at a doorstep , and trotted over into Mexico and up to the sentry . 
The sentry patted it on the head and muttered a friendly word or two . 
Did you hear Art tell about taking a letter to dad the day before ? she asked abruptly . 
He wasn't telling the truth , not all the time . 
But somehow I believe that was the truth . 
He said dad stuck it in the pocket of his chaps . 
I believe it's there yet , Lite . 
I don't remember ever looking into that pocket . 
And I believe Lite , I never said anything about it , but somebody kept coming to the house in the night and hunting around through all the rooms . 
He never came into my room , so I I didn't bother him but I've wondered what he was after . 
It just occurred to me that maybe I never could figure out what he was after , either , Lite observed quietly . 
You ? Jean turned her head , so that her eyes shone in the light of a street lamp while she looked up at him . 
How in the world did you know about him ? Lite laughed drily . 
I don't think there's much concerns you that I don't know , he confessed . 
I saw him , I guess , every time he came around . 
He couldn't have made a crooked move , and got away with it . 
But I never could figure him out exactly . 
Jean looked at him , touched by the care of her that he had betrayed in those few words . 
She had sensed it , but she had never faced it openly . 
She pulled her thoughts away from it now . 
Did you know who he was ? It was like Jean to come straight to the point . 
Lite smiled faintly he knew that question would come , and he knew that he would have to answer it . 
I made it my business to know who he was . 
Who was it , Lite ? Lite did not say . 
He knew that question was coming also , but he did not know whether he ought to answer it . 
It was Uncle Carl , wasn't it ? Lite glanced down at her quickly . 
You're a good little guesser . 
Then it was that letter he was after . 
She was silent for a minute , and then she looked at her watch . 
And I can't get at those chaps before to morrow ! She sighed and leaned back against the post . 
Lite , if it was worth all that hunting for , it must mean something to us . 
I wonder what it can be don't you know ? No , said Lite slowly , I don't . 
And it's something a man don't want to do any guessing about . 
This , Jean felt , was a gentle reproof for her own speculations upon the subject . 
She said no more about the letter . 
I sent him a telegram , she informed Lite irrelevantly , saying I'd located Art and was going to take him back there . 
I wonder what he thought when he got that ! Lite turned half around and stared down at her . 
He opened his lips to speak , hesitated , and closed them without making a sound . 
He turned away and stared down into the street that was so empty . 
After a little he glanced at his own watch , with the same impulse Jean had felt . 
The hours and minutes were beginning to drag their feet as they passed . 
You go in , he ordered gently , and lie down . 
You'll be all worn out when the time comes for you to get busy . 
We don't know what's ahead of us on this trail , Jean . 
Right now , it's peaceful as Sunday morning down in Maine so you go in and get some sleep , while you have a chance , and stop thinking about things . 
I'll call you plenty early you needn't be afraid of missing the train . 
Jean smiled a little at the tender , protective note of authority in his voice and manner . 
Whether she permitted it or not , Lite would go right on watching over her and taking care of her . 
With a sudden desire to please him , she rose obediently . 
When she passed him , she reached out and gave his arm a little squeeze . 
But under that surface calm , the heart of Lite Avery was thumping violently . 
His arm quivered still under the thrill of Jean's fingers . 
He stood there a long while , staring out upon the darkness , his eyes shining . 
Jean had sat and listened to the wheels of the Golden State Limited clank over the cryptic phrase that meant so much . 
Little by little they drew near to Los Angeles . 
And then they were there , sliding slowly through the yards in a drab drizzle of one of California's fall rains . 
Then they were in a taxicab , making for the Third Street tunnel . 
Then Jean stared heavy eyed at the dripping palms along the boulevard which led away from the smoke of the city and into Hollywood , snuggled against the misty hills . 
Letter in the chaps ! her tired brain repeated it still . 
Then she was in the apartment shared with Muriel Gay and her mother . 
These two were over at the studio , the landlady told her when she let them in , and Jean was glad that they were gone . 
She knelt , still in her hat and coat and with her gloves on , and fitted her trunk key into the lock . 
She sat back on the floor and shivered with the chill of a fireless room in California , when a fall rain is at its drizzling worst . 
In the next room one of the men coughed afterwards she heard Lite's voice , saying something in an undertone to Art Osgood . 
She heard Art's voice mutter a reply . 
She raised herself again to her knees , turned the key in the lock , and lifted the trunk lid with an air of determination . 
Down next the bottom of her big trunk they lay , just as she had packed them away , with her dad's six shooter and belt carefully disposed between the leathern folds . 
She groped with her hands under a couple of riding skirts and her high , laced boots , got a firm grip on the fringed leather , and dragged them out . 
She had forgotten all about the gun and belt until they fell with a thump on the floor . 
She pulled out the belt , left the gun lying there by the trunk , and hurried out with the chaps dangling over her arm . 
She was pale when she stood before the two who sat there waiting with their hats in their hands and their faces full of repressed eagerness . 
Her fingers trembled while she pulled at the stiff , leather flap of the pocket , to free it from the button . 
Maybe it ain't there yet , Art hazarded nervously , while they watched her . 
But that's where he put it , all right . 
Jean's fingers went groping into the pocket , stayed there for a second or two , and came out holding a folded envelope . 
That's it ! Art leaned toward her eagerly . 
That's the one , all right . 
Jean sat down suddenly because her knees seemed to bend under her weight . 
Three years and that letter within her reach all the time ! Let's see , Jean . 
Lite reached out and took it from her nerveless fingers . 
Maybe it won't amount to anything at all . 
Jean tried to hold herself calm . 
Read it out loud , she said . 
She tried to smile , and made so great a failure of it that she came very near crying . 
The faint crackle of the cheap paper when Lite unfolded the letter made her start nervously . 
Read it no matter what it is , she repeated , when she saw Lite's eyes go rapidly over the lines . 
Lite glanced at her sharply , then leaned and took her hand and held it close . 
His firm clasp steadied her more than any words could have done . 
Without further delay or attempt to palliate its grim significance , he read the note Aleck If Johnny Croft comes to you with anything about me , kick him off the ranch . 
He claims he knows a whole lot about me branding too many calves . 
Don't believe anything he tells you . 
He's just trying to make trouble because he claims I underpaid him . 
He was telling Art a lot of stuff that he claimed he could prove on me , but it's all a lie . 
Send him to me if he comes looking for trouble . 
I'll give him all he wants . 
Art found a heifer down in the breaks that looks like she might have blackleg . 
I'm going down there to see about it . 
Maybe you better ride over and see what you think about it we don't want to let anything like that get a start on us . 
Don't pay any attention to Johnny . 
I'll fix him if he don't keep his face shut . 
Carl ! Jean repeated the name mechanically . 
I kinda thought it was something like that , Art Osgood interrupted her to say . 
Now you know that much , and I'll tell you just what I know about it . 
It was Carl shot Crofty , all right . 
I rode over with him to the Lazy A I was on my way to town and we went that far together . 
I rode that way to tell you good by . 
He looked at Jean with a certain diffidence . 
I kinda wanted to see you before I went clear outa the country , but you weren't at home . 
Johnny Croft's horse was standing outside the house when we rode up . 
I guess he must have just got there ahead of us . 
Carl got off and went in ahead of me . 
Johnny was eating a snack when I went in . 
He said something to Carl , and Carl flared up . 
I saw there wasn't anybody at home , and I didn't want to get mixed up in the argument , so I turned and went on out . 
And I hadn't more than got to my horse when I heard a shot , and Carl came running out with his gun in his hand . 
Well , Johnny was dead , and there wasn't anything I could do about it . 
Carl told me to beat it outa the country , just like I'd been planning he said it would be a whole lot better for him , seeing I wasn't an eye witness . 
Well , I thought it over for a minute , and I didn't see where it would get me anything to stay . 
I couldn't help Carl any by staying , because I wasn't in the house when it happened . 
So I hit the trail for town , and never said anything to anybody . 
He looked at the two contritely . 
I never knew , till you folks came to Nogales looking for me , that things panned out the way they did . 
I thought Carl was going to give himself up , and would be cleared . 
I never once dreamed he was the kinda mark that would let his own brother take the blame that way . 
Lite folded the letter and pushed it back into the envelope . 
I can look back now , though , and see how it come about . 
To let dad suffer all this while ! Lite , when did you say that train left for Salt Lake ? We can take the taxi back down town , and save time . 
She was at the door when she turned toward the two again . 
CHAPTER XXV LITE COMES OUT OF THE BACKGROUND For hours Jean had sat staring out at the drear stretches of desert dripping under the dismal rain that streaked the car windows . 
The clouds hung leaden and gray close over the earth the smoke from the engine trailed a funereal plume across the grease wood covered plain . 
Away in the distance a low line of hills stretched vaguely , as though they were placed there to hold up the sky that was so heavy and dank . 
Alongside the track every ditch ran full of clay colored water that wrapped little , ragged wreaths of dirty foam around every obstruction , like the tawdry finery of the slums . 
Jean turned toward him a face as depressed as the desert out there under the rain . 
Lite , looking at her keenly , saw on her cheeks the traces of tears . 
He let himself down wearily into the seat beside her , reached over calmly , and took her hand from off her lap and held it snugly in his own . 
This is likely a snowstorm , up home , he said in his quiet , matter of fact way . 
I guess we'll have to make our headquarters in town till I get things hauled out to the ranch . 
That's it , when you can't look ahead and see what's coming . 
I could have had everything ready to go right on out , only I thought there wouldn't be any use , before spring , anyway . 
But if this storm ain't a blizzard up there , a couple of days will straighten things out . 
Jean turned her head and regarded him attentively . 
Out where ? she asked him bluntly . 
What are you talking about ? Have you and Art been celebrating ? She knew better than that . 
Lite never indulged in liquid celebrations , and Jean knew it . 
Lite reached into his pocket with the hand that was free , and drew forth a telegram envelope . 
He released her hand while he drew out the message , but he did not hand it to her immediately . 
I wired Rossman from Los Angeles , he informed her , and told him what was up , and asked him to put me up to date on that end of the line . 
I got this back there at that last town . 
He laid his hand over hers again , and looked down at her sidelong . 
I had that idea all along that you've had this summer getting hold of the Lazy A and fixing it up so your dad would have a place to come back to . 
His eyes went surreptitiously to her face , and lingered there wistfully . 
So after the trouble I buckled down to work and saved a little faster , if anything . 
It looked to me like there wasn't much hope of doing anything for your dad till his sentence ran out , so I never said anything about it . 
Long as Carl didn't try to sell it to anybody else , I just waited and got together all the money I could . 
I didn't see as there was anything else to do . 
Jean was chewing a corner of her lip , and was staring out of the window . 
I didn't know I was stealing your thunder , Lite , she said dispiritedly . 
Why didn't you tell me ? Wasn't anything to tell till there was something to tell . 
Now , this telegram here , this is what I started out to talk about . 
It'll be just as well if you know it before we get to Helena . 
I showed it to Art , and he thought the same as I did . 
So I wrote to Rossman . 
He knew Carl , too , so that made it easier . 
You knew I wanted to . 
So I got Rossman started , quite a while back . 
He thought as I did , that Carl was acting mighty funny . 
I was with Carl more than you was , and I could tell he had something laying heavy on his mind . 
But then , the rest of us had things laying pretty heavy on our minds , too , that wasn't guilt so there wasn't any way to tell what was bothering Carl . 
Lite made no attempt to answer the question she had asked . 
Now , here's this wire Rossman sent me . 
You don't want to get the wrong idea , Jean , and feel too bad about this . 
You don't want to think you had anything to do with it . 
Carl was gradually building up to something of this kind , has been for a long time . 
His coming over to the ranch nights , looking for that letter that he had hunted all over for at first , shows he wasn't right in his mind on the subject . 
But Well , heavens and earth , Lite ! Jean's tone was exasperated more than it was worried . 
Why don't you say what you want to say ? What's it all about ? Let me read that telegram and be done with it . 
I I should think you'd know I can stand things , by this time . 
I haven't shown any weak knees , have I ? Well , I hate to pile on any more , Lite muttered defensively . 
But you've got to know this . 
I wish you didn't , but Jean did not say any more . 
She reached over and with her free hand took the telegram from him . 
She did not pull away the hand Lite was holding , however , and the heart of him gave an exultant bound because she let it lie there quiet under his own . 
She pinched her brows together over the message , and let it drop into her lap . 
Her head went back against the towel covered head rest , and for a minute her eyes closed as if she could not look any longer upon trouble . 
L Avery , En Route Train , S. L. D. R. R. Carl Douglas suicided yesterday , leaving letter confessing murder of Croft . 
Had just completed transfer of land and cattle to your name . 
Am taking steps placing matter before governor immediately expect him to act at once upon pardon . 
Bring your man my office at once deposition may be required . 
Now , I told you not to worry about this , Lite reminded the girl firmly . 
Looks to me like it takes a load off our hands , Carl's doing what he done . 
Saves us dragging it all through court again and , Jean , it'll let your dad out a whole lot quicker . 
Sounds kinda cold blooded , maybe , but if you could look at it as good news , that's the way it strikes me . 
Jean did not say a word , just then . 
Now , that's long enough to cry , he whispered to her , after a season of mental intoxication such as he had never before experienced . 
I started out three years ago to be the boss . 
I ain't been working at it regular , as you might say , all the time . 
But I'm going to wind up that way . 
I hate to turn you over to your dad without some little show of making good at the job . 
Jean gave a little gurgle that may have been related to laughter , and Lite's lips quirked with humorous embarrassment as he went on . 
I don't guess , he said slowly , that I'm going to turn you over at all , Jean . 
I guess I've just about got to keep you . 
How how does that sound to you , Jean ? Jean was wiping her eyes as unobtrusively as she might . 
How does it sound , you and me making a home together ? Lite was growing pale , and his hands trembled . 
It sounds good , said Jean unsteadily . 
For several minutes Lite did not say a word . 
They sat there holding hands quite foolishly , and stared out at the drenched desert . 
Soon as your dad comes , he said at last , very simply , we'll be married . 
He was silent another minute , and added under his breath like a prayer , And we'll all go home . 
She had not done much . 
And now , with Lite and her dad standing outside the door , she almost dreaded the meeting . 
But she took a deep breath and walked to the door and opened it . 
Hello , dad , she cried with a nervous gaiety . 
Give your dear daughter a kiss ! She had not meant to say that at all . 
He did not say anything at all and the kiss she asked for he laid softly upon her hair . 
Lite stood in the doorway and looked at the two of them for a moment . 
I'm going down to see about things . 
I'll be back in a little while . 
And , Jean , will you be ready ? Jean looked up at him understandingly , and with a certain shyness in her eyes . 
If it's all right with dad , she told him , I'll be ready . 
Lite's a man ! Aleck stated unsmilingly , with a trace of that apathy which had hurt Jean so in the warden's office . 
I'm glad you'll have him to take care of you , Jean . 
So Lite closed the door softly and went away and left those two alone . 
In a very few words I can tell you the rest . 
There were a few things to adjust , and a few arrangements to make . 
The greatest adjustment , perhaps , was when Jean begged off from that contract with the Great Western Company . 
He was very nice , therefore , to Jean . 
He told her by all means to consider herself free to give her time wholly to her father and her husband . 
He also congratulated Lite in terms that made Jean blush and beat a hurried retreat from his office , and that made Lite grin all the way to the hotel . 
So the public lost Jean of the Lazy A almost as soon as it had learned to welcome her . 
So that detail was soon adjusted . 
At the Lazy A there was a great deal to do before the traces of its tragedy were wiped out . 
I think , on the whole , we shall leave them doing that work , too . 
As much as human love and happiness could do toward wiping out the bitterness they would accomplish , you may be sure , give them time enough . 
