Even prior to this , transoceanic commerce had practically ceased , owing to the perils and hazards of the mine strewn waters of both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans . 
A heavy sea and the excellent seamanship of the master of the Brazilian permitted the Pan American to escape and report this last of a long series of outrages upon our commerce . 
God alone knows how many hundreds of our ancient ships fell prey to the roving steel sharks of blood frenzied Europe . 
Since that day peace had reigned from the western shores of the Azores to the western shores of the Hawaiian Islands , nor has any man of either hemisphere dared cross dW . 
From d to d is ours from d to d is peace , prosperity and happiness . 
Beyond was the great unknown . 
Even the geographies of my boyhood showed nothing beyond . 
We were taught of nothing beyond . 
For two hundred years the Eastern Hemisphere had been wiped from the maps and histories of Pan America . 
Its mention in fiction , even , was forbidden . 
Our ships of peace patrol thirty and one hundred seventy five . 
The fate of the relinquished provinces which lay beyond the dead lines we could only speculate upon . 
The government already possesses a complete official report of my adventures beyond thirty . 
Now , in all the Western Hemisphere dwells no man who may not find a school house within walking distance of his home , or at least within flying distance . 
My name is Jefferson Turck . 
I am a lieutenant in the navy in the great Pan American navy , the only navy which now exists in all the world . 
I was born in Arizona , in the United States of North America , in the year of our Lord . 
Therefore , I am twenty one years old . 
In early boyhood I tired of the teeming cities and overcrowded rural districts of Arizona . 
Every generation of Turcks for over two centuries has been represented in the navy . 
The navy called to me , as did the free , wide , unpeopled spaces of the mighty oceans . 
And so I joined the navy , coming up from the ranks , as we all must , learning our craft as we advance . 
My promotion was rapid , for my family seems to inherit naval lore . 
We are born officers , and I reserve to myself no special credit for an early advancement in the service . 
At twenty I found myself a lieutenant in command of the aero submarine Coldwater , of the SS class . 
Much of my service had been spent aboard the great merchantmen of war . 
We had been riding out a storm at an altitude of about three thousand feet . 
All night we had hovered above the tossing billows of the moonlight clouds . 
I was at breakfast when my chief engineer entered and saluted . 
His face was grave , and I thought he was even a trifle paler than usual . 
He drew the back of his forefinger nervously across his brow in a gesture that was habitual with him in moments of mental stress . 
The gravitation screen generators , sir , he said . 
Number one went to the bad about an hour and a half ago . 
We have been working upon it steadily since but I have to report , sir , that it is beyond repair . 
Number two will keep us supplied , I answered . 
In the meantime we will send a wireless for relief . 
But that is the trouble , sir , he went on . 
I knew it would come , sir . 
I made a report on these generators three years ago . 
I advised then that they both be scrapped . 
Their principle is entirely wrong . 
And , with a grim smile , I shall at least have the satisfaction of knowing my report was accurate . 
Have we sufficient reserve screen to permit us to make land , or , at least , meet our relief halfway ? I asked . 
No , sir , he replied gravely we are sinking now . 
Have you anything further to report ? I asked . 
No , sir , he said . 
Very good , I replied and , as I dismissed him , I rang for my wireless operator . 
When he appeared , I gave him a message to the secretary of the navy , to whom all vessels in service on thirty and one hundred seventy five report direct . 
I explained our predicament , and stated that with what screening force remained I should continue in the air , making as rapid headway toward St . 
Johns as possible , and that when we were forced to take to the water I should continue in the same direction . 
The accident occurred directly over d and about d N. The surface wind was blowing a tempest from the west . 
To attempt to ride out such a storm upon the surface seemed suicidal , for the Coldwater was not designed for surface navigation except under fair weather conditions . 
To cross thirty or one hundred seventy five has been , as you know , the direst calamity that could befall a naval commander . 
There has been in the past no excuse , no circumstance , that could palliate the offense . 
He was in command , and he took his ship across thirty ! That was sufficient . 
In a way , the regulation was a good one , for it certainly accomplished that for which it was intended . 
However , I'd hate to vouch for this . 
Well , to get back to my narrative we kept on dropping slowly toward the surface the while we bucked the west wind , clawing away from thirty as fast as we could . 
The waves were running to tremendous heights , and the Coldwater was not designed to meet such waves head on . 
Her elements were the blue ether , far above the raging storm , or the greater depths of ocean , which no storm could ruffle . 
It needed but a glance at him to assure me that something was amiss . 
What now ? I asked . 
The wireless , sir ! he cried . 
My God , sir , I cannot send . 
But the emergency outfit ? I asked . 
I have tried everything , sir . 
I have exhausted every resource . 
We cannot send , and he drew himself up and saluted again . 
There was no finer operator in Pan America than he . 
I had ordered the message sent solely because regulations required it , and not with any particular hope that we could benefit by it in our present extremity . 
Most of my officers were older men than I. John Alvarez , my first officer , is twenty years my senior . 
He stood at my side on the bridge as the ship glided closer and closer to those stupendous waves . 
He watched my every move , but he was by far too fine an officer and gentleman to embarrass me by either comment or suggestion . 
We were making headway , though slowly , and it began to look as though we were going to pull through . 
Alvarez never left my side , though I all but ordered him below for much needed rest . 
My second officer , Porfirio Johnson , was also often on the bridge . 
He left the bridge finally and went below . 
He seemed nervous and ill at ease a fact which made little impression on me at the time , but which both Alvarez and I recalled subsequently . 
Not three minutes after his reappearance at my side the Coldwater suddenly commenced to lose headway . 
Numbers one , two , and five engines have broken down , sir , he called . 
Shall we force the remaining three ? We can do nothing else , I bellowed into the transmitter . 
They won't stand the gaff , sir , he returned . 
Can you suggest a better plan ? I asked . 
No , sir , he replied . 
Then give them the gaff , lieutenant , I shouted back , and hung up the receiver . 
For twenty minutes the Coldwater bucked the great seas with her three engines . 
I doubt if she advanced a foot but it was enough to keep her nose in the wind , and , at least , we were not drifting toward thirty . 
Johnson and Alvarez were at my side when , without warning , the bow swung swiftly around and the ship fell into the trough of the sea . 
The other three have gone , I said , and I happened to be looking at Johnson as I spoke . 
Was it the shadow of a satisfied smile that crossed his thin lips ? I do not know but at least he did not weep . 
You always have been curious , sir , about the great unknown beyond thirty , he said . 
You are in a good way to have your curiosity satisfied . 
And then I could not mistake the slight sneer that curved his upper lip . 
There must have been a trace of disrespect in his tone or manner which escaped me , for Alvarez turned upon him like a flash . 
Johnson turned and eyed me narrowly . 
Shall I place him under arrest ? he asked . 
You shall not , I replied . 
You become a party to his crime ! he cried angrily . 
You may go below , Mr. Johnson , I said , and attend to the work of unpacking the extra instruments and having them properly set upon the bridge . 
I rejoiced that I should leave neither wife nor child to bear the burden of my shame throughout their lives . 
For the first time in my life I found my sentiments arraying themselves against custom , tradition , and even government . 
I would replace the destroyed instruments upon the bridge every officer and man should know when we crossed thirty . 
Then I should make a full report , and with it a demand upon public opinion that the dead lines be wiped forever from the seas . 
I knew that I was right . 
I knew that no more loyal officer wore the uniform of the navy . 
Even while these thoughts were passing through my mind I was busy with the details of my duties . 
It was then that Johnson came hurrying to the bridge . 
One of his eyes was swollen and already darkening , and his lip was cut and bleeding . 
Without even the formality of a salute , he burst upon me , white with fury . 
Lieutenant Alvarez attacked me ! he cried . 
I demand that he be placed under arrest . 
I found him in the act of destroying the reserve instruments , and when I would have interfered to protect them he fell upon me and beat me . 
I demand that you arrest him ! You forget yourself , Mr. Johnson , I said . 
You are not in command of the ship . 
I deplore the action of Lieutenant Alvarez , but I cannot expunge from my mind the loyalty and self sacrificing friendship which has prompted him to his acts . 
Were I you , sir , I should profit by the example he has set . 
You mean to say that you will cross thirty without submitting to arrest ? he almost shouted . 
I do , sir , I replied . 
He flushed , hesitated a moment , and then , saluting , turned upon his heel and left the bridge . 
Shortly after , Alvarez appeared . 
He was pale , and seemed to have aged ten years in the few brief minutes since I last had seen him . 
Saluting , he told me very simply what he had done , and asked that I place him under arrest . 
Then it was that I outlined to him my purpose to defy the regulation that had raised the dead lines , and to take my ship back to New York myself . 
I did not ask him to share the responsibility with me . 
Those which Johnson had seen him destroy had been a third set which only Alvarez had known was aboard the Coldwater . 
We waited impatiently for the sun , that we might determine our exact location , and upon the fourth day our vigil was rewarded a few minutes before noon . 
Every officer and man aboard was tense with nervous excitement as we awaited the result of the reading . 
The men carried none of the burdens of responsibility . 
The crew , with the exception of those whose duties kept them below , were ranged on deck below the bridge . 
When our position was definitely fixed I personally announced it to the eager , waiting men . 
Men , I said , stepping forward to the handrail and looking down into their upturned , bronzed faces , you are anxiously awaiting information as to the ship's position . 
It has been determined at latitude fifty degrees seven minutes north , longitude twenty degrees sixteen minutes west . 
I paused and a buzz of animated comment ran through the massed men beneath me . 
But there will be no change in commanding officers , in routine or in discipline , until after we have docked again in New York . 
As I ceased speaking and stepped back from the rail there was a roar of applause from the deck such as I never before had heard aboard a ship of peace . 
For two weeks we labored at the engines , which indisputably showed evidence of having been tampered with . 
I appointed a board to investigate and report upon the disaster . 
All this time we were drifting almost due east . 
To relieve the monotony I had taken to fishing , and early that morning I had departed from the Coldwater in one of the boats on such an excursion . 
A gentle west wind was blowing . 
The sea shimmered in the sunlight . 
A cloudless sky canopied the west for our sport , as I had made it a point never voluntarily to make an inch toward the east that I could avoid . 
At least , they should not be able to charge me with a willful violation of the dead lines regulation . 
I had with me only the boat's ordinary complement of men three in all , and more than enough to handle any small power boat . 
I had not asked any of my officers to accompany me , as I wished to be alone , and very glad am I now that I had not . 
My only regret is that , in view of what befell us , it had been necessary to bring the three brave fellows who manned the boat . 
Our fishing , which proved excellent , carried us so far to the west that we no longer could see the Coldwater . 
The day wore on , until at last , about mid afternoon , I gave the order to return to the ship . 
We had proceeded but a short distance toward the east when one of the men gave an exclamation of excitement , at the same time pointing eastward . 
We all looked on in the direction he had indicated , and there , a short distance above the horizon , we saw the outlines of the Coldwater silhouetted against the sky . 
They've repaired the engines and the generators both , exclaimed one of the men . 
It seemed impossible , but yet it had evidently been done . 
Only that morning , Lieutenant Johnson had told me that he feared that it would be impossible to repair the generators . 
I had put him in charge of this work , since he always had been accounted one of the best gravitation screen men in the navy . 
At the sight of the Coldwater once more under control , the three men burst into a glad cheer . 
But , for some reason which I could not then account , I was strangely overcome by a premonition of personal misfortune . 
It was not that I now anticipated an early return to Pan America and a board of inquiry , for I had rather looked forward to the fight that must follow my return . 
What could it mean ? I had left Alvarez in command . 
He was my most loyal subordinate . 
It was absolutely beyond the pale of possibility that Alvarez should desert me . 
No , there was some other explanation . 
Something occurred to place my second officer , Porfirio Johnson , in command . 
I was sure of it but why speculate ? The futility of conjecture was only too palpable . 
The Coldwater had abandoned us in midocean . 
Doubtless none of us would survive to know why . 
Bring her about , Snider , I directed , and hold her due east . 
We can't catch the Coldwater , and we can't cross the Atlantic in this . 
Our only hope lies in making the nearest land , which , unless I am mistaken , is the Scilly Islands , off the southwest coast of England . 
Ever heard of England , Snider ? There's a part of the United States of North America that used to be known to the ancients as New England , he replied . 
Is that where you mean , sir ? No , Snider , I replied . 
The England I refer to was an island off the continent of Europe . 
It was the seat of a very powerful kingdom that flourished over two hundred years ago . 
A part of the United States of North America and all of the Federated States of Canada once belonged to this ancient England . 
Europe , breathed one of the men , his voice tense with excitement . 
My grandfather used to tell me stories of the world beyond thirty . 
He had been a great student , and he had read much from forbidden books . 
Usually I bring several of these books with me upon a cruise , and this time , among others , I have maps of Europe and her surrounding waters . 
I was studying them as we came away from the Coldwater this morning , and luckily I have them with me . 
You are going to try to make Europe , sir ? asked Taylor , the young man who had last spoken . 
It is the nearest land , I replied . 
I have always wanted to explore the forgotten lands of the Eastern Hemisphere . 
To remain at sea is to perish . 
None of us ever will see home again . 
Let us make the best of it , and enjoy while we do live that which is forbidden the balance of our race the adventure and the mystery which lie beyond thirty . 
Taylor and Delcarte seized the spirit of my mood but Snider , I think , was a trifle sceptical . 
It is treason , sir , I replied , but there is no law which compels us to visit punishment upon ourselves . 
Could we return to Pan America , I should be the first to insist that we face it . 
But we know that's not possible . 
Even if this craft would carry us so far , we haven't enough water or food for more than three days . 
We are doomed , Snider , to die far from home and without ever again looking upon the face of another fellow countryman than those who sit here now in this boat . 
Isn't that punishment sufficient for even the most exacting judge ? Even Snider had to admit that it was . 
I could see that Snider was still fearful , but Taylor and Delcarte responded with a hearty , Aye , aye , sir ! They were of different mold . 
Both were sons of naval officers . 
They represented the aristocracy of birth , and they dared to think for themselves . 
Snider was in the minority , and so we continued toward the east . 
Beyond thirty , and separated from my ship , my authority ceased . 
While my brain and brawn remain unimpaired I shall continue always to lead . 
Following is an art which Turcks do not easily learn . 
It was not until the third day that we raised land , dead ahead , which I took , from my map , to be the isles of Scilly . 
I think that up to that moment I had never experienced such a thrill as passed through me when I realized that I was navigating these historic waters . 
The lifelong dreams that I never had dared hope to see fulfilled were at last a reality but under what forlorn circumstances ! Never could I return to my native land . 
To the end of my days I must remain in exile . 
Yet even these thoughts failed to dampen my ardor . 
My eyes scanned the waters . 
To the north I could see the rockbound coast of Cornwall . 
Mine were the first American eyes to rest upon it for more than two hundred years . 
According to my observations , we were just off Ram Head , and it was my intention to enter Plymouth Bay and visit Plymouth . 
However , I knew that it would make little difference which city we entered , as the English people were famed of old for their hospitality toward visiting mariners . 
As we approached the mouth of the bay I looked for the fishing craft which I expected to see emerging thus early in the day for their labors . 
But even after we rounded Ram Head and were well within the waters of the bay I saw no vessel . 
Neither was there buoy nor light nor any other mark to show larger ships the channel , and I wondered much at this . 
The coast was densely overgrown , nor was any building or sign of man apparent from the water . 
Up the bay and into the River Tamar we motored through a solitude as unbroken as that which rested upon the waters of the Channel . 
For all we could see , there was no indication that man had ever set his foot upon this silent coast . 
I was nonplused , and then , for the first time , there crept over me an intuition of the truth . 
Here was no sign of war . 
As far as this portion of the Devon coast was concerned , that seemed to have been over for many years , but neither were there any people . 
Yet I could not find it within myself to believe that I should find no inhabitants in England . 
But what of their ancient coast defenses ? What was there here in Plymouth Bay to prevent an enemy landing in force and marching where they wished ? Nothing . 
I found myself becoming more and more deeply involved in quandary . 
The puzzle which confronted me I could not unravel . 
We had landed , and I now stood upon the spot where , according to my map , a large city should rear its spires and chimneys . 
There was nothing but rough , broken ground covered densely with weeds and brambles , and tall , rank , grass . 
Had a city ever stood there , no sign of it remained . 
The roughness and unevenness of the ground suggested something of a great mass of debris hidden by the accumulation of centuries of undergrowth . 
The blade entered the soil for a matter of seven inches , when it struck upon something stonelike . 
Delcarte we had left in charge of the boat but Snider and Taylor were with me , and following my example , each engaged in the fascinating sport of prospecting for antiques . 
I took it from him and examined it . 
Directly in the center of the forehead was a small round hole . 
The gentleman had evidently come to his end defending his country from an invader . 
Snider again held aloft another trophy of the search a metal spike and some tarnished and corroded metal ornaments . 
They had lain close beside the skull . 
With the point of his cutlass Snider scraped the dirt and verdigris from the face of the larger ornament . 
An inscription , he said , and handed the thing to me . 
They were the spike and ornaments of an ancient German helmet . 
Before long we had uncovered many other indications that a great battle had been fought upon the ground where we stood . 
Subsequent discoveries tend to strengthen this view . 
I could not repress a sigh at the thought of the havoc war had wrought in this part of England , at least . 
Farther east , nearer London , we should find things very different . 
There would be the civilization that two centuries must have wrought upon our English cousins as they had upon us . 
There would be mighty cities , cultivated fields , happy people . 
There we would be welcomed as long lost brothers . 
I turned back toward the boat . 
Come , men ! I said . 
We will go up the river and fill our casks with fresh water , search for food and fuel , and then tomorrow be in readiness to push on toward the east . 
I am going to London . 
The report of a gun blasted the silence of a dead Devonport with startling abruptness . 
It came from the direction of the launch , and in an instant we three were running for the boat as fast as our legs would carry us . 
As we came in sight of it we saw Delcarte a hundred yards inland from the launch , leaning over something which lay upon the ground . 
As we called to him he waved his cap , and stooping , lifted a small deer for our inspection . 
I was about to congratulate him on his trophy when we were startled by a horrid , half human , half bestial scream a little ahead and to the right of us . 
It seemed to come from a clump of rank and tangled bush not far from where Delcarte stood . 
It was a horrid , fearsome sound , the like of which never had fallen upon my ears before . 
We looked in the direction from which it came . 
The smile had died from Delcarte's lips . 
Even at the distance we were from him I saw his face go suddenly white , and he quickly threw his rifle to his shoulder . 
At the same moment the thing that had given tongue to the cry moved from the concealing brushwood far enough for us , too , to see it . 
Both Taylor and Snider gave little gasps of astonishment and dismay . 
What is it , sir ? asked the latter . 
It was pacing , or rather , slinking , straight for Delcarte , who had now leveled his rifle upon it . 
Snider and Taylor were armed with rifles and revolvers , while I carried only a revolver . 
But he misunderstood me , thinking that I had ordered him to fire . 
Not a backward step had the noble Delcarte taken . 
Two hundred years of peace had not sapped the red blood from his courageous line . 
He went down beneath that avalanche of bestial savagery still working his gun and with his face toward his antagonist . 
Delcarte's buoyance was entirely unruffled . 
With the termination of the adventure , we began to speculate upon the explanation of the presence of this savage brute at large so great a distance from its native habitat . 
As we talked , Snider joined us , and I returned his rifle to him . 
Taylor and Delcarte picked up the slain deer , and we all started down toward the launch , walking slowly . 
Delcarte wanted to fetch the tiger's skin , but I had to deny him permission , since we had no means to properly cure it . 
Another Felis tigris , said Taylor . 
At the sight of us , they came charging down like infuriated demons . 
Sure enough , they all halted at the beach , pacing back and forth , uttering fiendish cries , and glaring at us in the most malevolent manner . 
As we motored away , we presently heard the calls of similar animals far inland . 
They have eaten up the inhabitants , murmured Snider , shuddering . 
But where did they come from ? asked Delcarte . 
Could they have traveled here from Asia ? I shook my head . 
The thing was a puzzle to me . 
Yet here they were , and in great numbers . 
Half concealed behind their screening foliage I saw the yellow and black of a big tiger , and , as I looked , the beast stalked majestically toward us . 
A moment later , he was followed by another and another , and it is needless to state that we beat a hasty retreat to the launch . 
Our first stopping place was the Isle of Wight . 
We entered the Solent about ten o'clock one morning , and I must confess that my heart sank as we came close to shore . 
No lighthouse was visible , though one was plainly indicated upon my map . 
Upon neither shore was sign of human habitation . 
Before landing , I had the men substitute soft bullets for the steel jacketed projectiles with which their belts and magazines were filled . 
Thus equipped , we felt upon more even terms with the tigers , but there was no sign of the tigers , and I decided that they must be confined to the mainland . 
After eating , we set out in search of fuel , leaving Taylor to guard the launch . 
For some reason I could not trust Snider alone . 
That he would be fool enough to venture it , I did not doubt . 
There were a score of men in the party . 
Hairy , half naked men they were , resting in the shade of a great tree . 
At the first sight of us they sprang to their feet with wild yells , seizing long spears that had lain beside them as they rested . 
For a matter of fifty yards they ran from us as rapidly as they could , and then they turned and surveyed us for a moment . 
Evidently emboldened by the scarcity of our numbers , they commenced to advance upon us , brandishing their spears and shouting horribly . 
They were short and muscular of build , with long hair and beards tangled and matted with filth . 
Their heads , however , were shapely , and their eyes , though fierce and warlike , were intelligent . 
Appreciation of these physical attributes came later , of course , when I had better opportunity to study the men at close range and under circumstances less fraught with danger and excitement . 
To this end I raised my left hand above my head with the palm toward them as the most natural gesture indicative of peaceful intentions which occurred to me . 
At my gesture and words they ceased their shouting and came to a halt a few paces from us . 
Who are you , he asked , and from what country ? I told him that we were from Pan America , but he only shook his head and asked where that was . 
He had never heard of it , or of the Atlantic Ocean which I told him separated his country from mine . 
It has been two hundred years , I told him , since a Pan American visited England . 
What is England ? Why this is a part of England ! I exclaimed . 
This is Grubitten , he assured me . 
I know nothing about England , and I have lived here all my life . 
It was not until long after that the derivation of Grubitten occurred to me . 
Unquestionably it is a corruption of Great Britain , a name formerly given to the large island comprising England , Scotland and Wales . 
Subsequently we heard it pronounced Grabrittin and Grubritten . 
I then asked the fellow if he could direct us to Ryde or Newport but again he shook his head , and said that he never had heard of such countries . 
And when I asked him if there were any cities in this country he did not know what I meant , never having heard the word cities . 
I explained my meaning as best I could by stating that by city I referred to a place where many people lived together in houses . 
Oh , he exclaimed , you mean a camp ! Yes , there are two great camps here , East Camp and West Camp . 
We are from East Camp . 
No , he replied to this question . 
The war is not yet over . 
But it soon will be , and it will end , as it always does , with the Westenders running away . 
We , the Eastenders , are always victorious . 
No , I said , seeing that he referred to the petty tribal wars of his little island , I mean the Great War , the war with Germany . 
Is it ended and who was victorious ? He shook his head impatiently . 
I never heard , he said , of any of these strange countries of which you speak . 
It seemed incredible , and yet it was true . 
Here was a lifelong inhabitant of the Isle of Wight who never had heard of either Germany or England ! I turned to him quite suddenly with a new question . 
What people live upon the mainland ? I asked , and pointed in the direction of the Hants coast . 
No one lives there , he replied . 
Do no other peoples ever come to your country in ships ? I asked . 
He never heard the word ship before , and did not know its meaning . 
Assured that we were inclined to friendliness , our new acquaintances led us to their village , or , as they call it , camp . 
Their weapons were most primitive , consisting of rude spears tipped with pieces of metal pounded roughly into shape . 
They had no literature , no religion , and recognized no law other than the law of might . 
They produced fire by striking a bit of flint and steel together , but for the most part they ate their food raw . 
Marriage is unknown among them , and while they have the word , mother , they did not know what I meant by father . 
The males fight for the favor of the females . 
They practice infanticide , and kill the aged and physically unfit . 
The family consists of the mother and the children , the men dwelling sometimes in one hut and sometimes in another . 
Owing to their bloody duels , they are always numerically inferior to the women , so there is shelter for them all . 
We spent several hours in the village , where we were objects of the greatest curiosity . 
The inhabitants examined our clothing and all our belongings , and asked innumerable questions concerning the strange country from which we had come and the manner of our coming . 
I questioned many of them concerning past historical events , but they knew nothing beyond the narrow limits of their island and the savage , primitive life they led there . 
London they had never heard of , and they assured me that I would find no human beings upon the mainland . 
I could not help but compare this once great water way with the waters about our New York , or Rio , or San Diego , or Valparaiso . 
They had become what they are today during the two centuries of the profound peace which we of the navy have been prone to deplore . 
As their pace was leisurely , I determined to follow them until I came again within range , as I was sure that they would stop and feed in a short time . 
They must have led me a mile or more at least before they again halted and commenced to browse upon the rank , luxuriant grasses . 
It was the figure of an immense grey black creature , rearing its colossal shoulders twelve or fourteen feet above the ground . 
But presently I guessed the identity of the mighty creature as Elephas africanus , or , as the ancients commonly described it , African elephant . 
The elephant was browsing upon the young and tender shoots of some low bushes , waving his great ears and switching his short tail . 
Instantly the scene changed from one of quiet and peace to indescribable chaos . 
The startled and terrified buck uttered cries of agony . 
His fellows broke and leaped off in all directions . 
The elephant raised his trunk , and , trumpeting loudly , lumbered off through the wood , crushing down small trees and trampling bushes in his mad flight . 
It was appalling but my reflections upon this depressing subject were doomed to sudden extinction . 
The lion had discovered me . 
For an instant he stood silent and motionless as one of the mangy effigies at home , but only for an instant . 
Then , with a most ferocious roar , and without the slightest hesitancy or warning , he charged upon me . 
He forsook the prey already dead beneath him for the pleasures of the delectable tidbit , man . 
Unless you had seen it you could not believe credible the speed of a charging lion . 
Apparently the animal is not built for speed , nor can he maintain it for long . 
But for a matter of forty or fifty yards there is , I believe , no animal on earth that can overtake him . 
Like a bolt he bore down upon me , but , fortunately for me , I did not lose my head . 
I guessed that no bullet would kill him instantly . 
I doubted that I could pierce his skull . 
I covered his left shoulder and pulled the trigger as he was almost upon me . 
With a terrific howl of pain and rage , the brute rolled over and over upon the ground almost to my feet . 
As he came I pumped two more bullets into him , and as he struggled to rise , clawing viciously at me , I put a bullet in his spine . 
That finished him , and I am free to admit that I was mighty glad of it . 
I stood there , resting , for a moment , preparatory to turning and retracing my steps to the launch , when , without warning , something whizzed through space straight toward me . 
This time I was pitted against men the spear told me that all too plainly but so long as they didn't take me unawares or from behind I had little fear of them . 
The fellow was quite similar in type to those I had seen upon the Isle of Wight . 
He was hairy and unkempt , and as he finally stepped into view I saw that he was garbed in the same primitive fashion . 
He stood for a moment gazing about in search of me , and then he advanced . 
As he did so a number of others , precisely like him , stepped from the concealing verdure of nearby bushes and followed in his wake . 
The useless destruction of any of these poor creatures was the farthest idea from my mind . 
I should have liked to have spoken with them , but I did not care to risk having to use my high powered rifle upon them other than in the last extremity . 
Once in my new place of concealment , I watched them as they approached the tree . 
There were about thirty men in the party and one woman a girl whose hands seemed to be bound behind her and who was being pulled along by two of the men . 
They came forward warily , peering cautiously into every bush and halting often . 
At the body of the lion , they paused , and I could see from their gesticulations and the higher pitch of their voices that they were much excited over my kill . 
But presently they resumed their search for me , and as they advanced I became suddenly aware of the unnecessary brutality with which the girl's guards were treating her . 
She stumbled once , not far from my place of concealment , and after the balance of the party had passed me . 
As she did so one of the men at her side jerked her roughly to her feet and struck her across the mouth with his fist . 
Instantly my blood boiled , and forgetting every consideration of caution , I leaped from my concealment , and , springing to the man's side , felled him with a blow . 
The girl shrank back at sight of me , her eyes wide in astonishment , and then my antagonist was upon me . 
I saw his companion crawling slowly to his feet , and the others of the party racing down upon me . 
Without a sound , he slipped to the earth , and then I turned the weapon upon the other guard , who was now about to attack me . 
He , too , collapsed , and I was alone with the astonished girl . 
The balance of the party was some twenty paces from us , but coming rapidly . 
I seized her arm and drew her after me behind a nearby tree , for I had seen that with both their comrades down the others were preparing to launch their spears . 
But for answer they only yelled in derision and launched a couple of spears at me , both of which missed . 
Again , I appealed to them to desist . 
But they only mistook my solicitude for them for fear , and , with shouts of rage and derision , leaped forward once again to overwhelm me . 
It was now quite evident that I must punish them severely , or myself die and relinquish the girl once more to her captors . 
She was of medium height , well formed , and with fine , clear cut features . 
Her forehead was high , and her eyes both intelligent and beautiful . 
Exposure to the sun had browned a smooth and velvety skin to a shade which seemed to enhance rather than mar an altogether lovely picture of youthful femininity . 
A trace of apprehension marked her expression I cannot call it fear since I have learned to know her and astonishment was still apparent in her eyes . 
She stood quite erect , her hands still bound behind her , and met my gaze with level , proud return . 
What language do you speak ? I asked . 
Do you understand mine ? Yes , she replied . 
It is similar to my own . 
What are you ? I am a Pan American , I answered . 
What is that ? I pointed toward the west . 
Far away , across the ocean . 
Her expression altered a trifle . 
A slight frown contracted her brow . 
The expression of apprehension deepened . 
Take off your cap , she said , and when , to humor her strange request , I did as she bid , she appeared relieved . 
Then she edged to one side and leaned over seemingly to peer behind me . 
I turned quickly to see what she discovered , but finding nothing , wheeled about to see that her expression was once more altered . 
You are not from there ? and she pointed toward the east . 
It was a half question . 
You are not from across the water there ? No , I assured her . 
I am from Pan America , far away to the west . 
Have you ever heard of Pan America ? She shook her head in negation . 
It was with difficulty that I restrained a smile . 
Who are the men from there ? I asked . 
They are bad men , she replied . 
Some of my people do not believe that there are such creatures . 
But we have a legend a very old , old legend , that once the men from there came across to Grabritin . 
They came upon the water , and under the water , and even in the air . 
They came in great numbers , so that they rolled across the land like a great gray fog . 
They brought with them thunder and lightning and smoke that killed , and they fell upon us and slew our people by the thousands and the hundreds of thousands . 
But at last we drove them back to the water's edge , back into the sea , where many were drowned . 
Some escaped , and these our people followed men , women , and even children , we followed them back . 
The legend says our people never returned . 
Maybe they were all killed . 
Maybe they are still there . 
I was afraid that you were from there . 
By what name were these men called ? I asked . 
We call them only the 'men from there , she replied , pointing toward the east . 
I have never heard that they had another name . 
In the light of what I knew of ancient history , it was not difficult for me to guess the nationality of those she described simply as the men from over there . 
These children had , doubtless , been too young to retain in their memories to transmit to their children any but the vaguest suggestion of the cataclysm which had overwhelmed their parents . 
Professor Cortoran , since my return to Pan America , has suggested another theory which is not entirely without claim to serious consideration . 
He points out that it is quite beyond the pale of human instinct to desert little children as my theory suggests the ancient English must have done . 
Personally , I do not place much stock in Professor Cortoran's theory , though I admit that I am prejudiced . 
Naturally one does not care to believe that the object of his greatest affection is descended from a gibbering idiot and a raving maniac . 
She thanked me , and with such a sweet smile that I should have been amply repaid by it for a much more arduous service . 
And now , I said , let me accompany you to your home and see you safely again under the protection of your friends . 
No , she said , with a hint of alarm in her voice you must not come with me Buckingham will kill you . 
The name was famous in ancient English history . 
He killed Wettin a few days ago . 
My mother told me once that Wettin was my father . 
Here , evidently , were a people slightly superior to those of the Isle of Wight . 
These must have at least the rudiments of civilized government since they recognized one among them as ruler , with the title , king . 
Also , they retained the word father . 
The girl's pronunciation , while far from identical with ours , was much closer than the tortured dialect of the Eastenders of the Isle of Wight . 
I asked her if we were far from the city of London , but she did not know what I meant . 
When I tried to explain , describing mighty buildings of stone and brick , broad avenues , parks , palaces , and countless people , she but shook her head sadly . 
There is no such place near by , she said . 
Only the Camp of the Lions has places of stone where the beasts lair , but there are no people in the Camp of the Lions . 
Who would dare go there ! And she shuddered . 
The Camp of the Lions , I repeated . 
And where is that , and what ? It is there , she said , pointing up the river toward the west . 
I have seen it from a great distance , but I have never been there . 
We are much afraid of the lions , for this is their country , and they are angry that man has come to live here . 
There were tigers here long ago , but both the lions and the men set upon them and drove them off . 
Where did these savage beasts come from ? I asked . 
Oh , she replied , they have been here always . 
Do they not kill and eat your people ? I asked . 
Often , when we meet them by accident , and we are too few to slay them , or when one goes too close to their camp . 
I should like to visit this Camp of the Lions , I said . 
Oh , no , you must not ! cried the girl . 
Long since should they have learned that I am gone from the camp they watch over me very closely and they will set out after me . 
Go ! I shall wait here until they come in search of me . 
No , I told her . 
I'll not leave you alone in a land infested by lions and other wild beasts . 
If you won't let me go as far as your camp with you , then I'll wait here until they come in search of you . 
Please go ! she begged . 
You have saved me , and I would save you , but nothing will save you if Buckingham gets his hands on you . 
He is a bad man . 
He wishes to have me for his woman so that he may be king . 
He would kill anyone who befriended me , for fear that I might become another's . 
Didn't you say that Buckingham is already the king ? I asked . 
He took my mother for his woman after he had killed Wettin . 
But my mother will die soon she is very old and then the man to whom I belong will become king . 
Finally , after much questioning , I got the thing through my head . 
It appears that the line of descent is through the women . 
A man is merely head of his wife's family that is all . 
If she chances to be the oldest female member of the royal house , he is king . 
Very naively the girl explained that there was seldom any doubt as to whom a child's mother was . 
But he was powerful , and there was no other man who dared dispute his wishes . 
Why not come with me , I suggested , if you do not wish to become Buckingham's ? Where would you take me ? she asked . 
Where , indeed ! I had not thought of that . 
But before I could reply to her question she shook her head and said , No , I cannot leave my people . 
I must stay and do my best , even if Buckingham gets me , but you must go at once . 
Do not wait until it is too late . 
The lions have had no offering for a long time , and Buckingham would seize upon the first stranger as a gift to them . 
I did not perfectly understand what she meant , and was about to ask her when a heavy body leaped upon me from behind , and great arms encircled my neck . 
When they had overpowered me , and I stood , my hands bound behind me , at the girl's side , she gazed commiseratingly at me . 
It is too bad that you did not do as I bid you , she said , for now it has happened just as I feared Buckingham has you . 
Which is Buckingham ? I asked . 
I am Buckingham , growled a burly , unwashed brute , swaggering truculently before me . 
Buckingham only sneered at her explanation , and a moment later gave the command that started us all off toward the west . 
All about the camp they had erected a wall of saplings pointed at the tops and fire hardened . 
In these trench habitations I saw a survival of the military trenches which formed so famous a part of the operation of the warring nations during the twentieth century . 
The women wore a single light deerskin about their hips , for it was summer , and quite warm . 
The men , too , were clothed in a single garment , usually the pelt of some beast of prey . 
The hair of both men and women was confined by a rawhide thong passing about the forehead and tied behind . 
In this leathern band were stuck feathers , flowers , or the tails of small mammals . 
All wore necklaces of the teeth or claws of wild beasts , and there were numerous metal wristlets and anklets among them . 
They wore , in fact , every indication of a most primitive people a race which had not yet risen to the heights of agriculture or even the possession of domestic animals . 
They were hunters the lowest plane in the evolution of the human race of which science takes cognizance . 
And yet as I looked at their well shaped heads , their handsome features , and their intelligent eyes , it was difficult to believe that I was not among my own . 
The inhabitants flocked around me , examining my clothing , and exclaiming in wonderment at each new discovery of button , buckle , pocket , and flap . 
It seemed incredible that such a thing could be , almost within a stone's throw of the spot where but a brief two centuries before had stood the greatest city of the world . 
They bound me to a small tree that grew in the middle of one of their crooked streets , but the girl they released as soon as we had entered the enclosure . 
The people greeted her with every mark of respect as she hastened to a large hut near the center of the camp . 
Presently she returned with a fine looking , white haired woman , who proved to be her mother . 
The older woman carried herself with a regal dignity that seemed quite remarkable in a place of such primitive squalor . 
The people fell aside as she approached , making a wide way for her and her daughter . 
When they had come near and stopped before me the older woman addressed me . 
My daughter has told me , she said , of the manner in which you rescued her from the men of the elephant country . 
If Wettin lived you would be well treated , but Buckingham has taken me now , and is king . 
You can hope for nothing from such a beast as Buckingham . 
The fact that Buckingham stood within a pace of us and was an interested listener appeared not to temper her expressions in the slightest . 
Buckingham is a pig , she continued . 
He came upon Wettin from behind and ran his spear through him . 
He will not be king for long . 
Some one will make a face at him , and he will run away and jump into the river . 
The people began to titter and clap their hands . 
Buckingham became red in the face . 
It was evident that he was far from popular . 
If he dared , went on the old lady , he would kill me now , but he does not dare . 
He is too great a coward . 
If I could help you I should gladly do so . 
But I am only queen the vehicle that has helped carry down , unsullied , the royal blood from the days when Grabritin was a mighty country . 
The old queen's words had a noticeable effect upon the mob of curious savages which surrounded me . 
He had no intention of being robbed of his prey . 
Here they threw me upon the ground , binding my ankles together and trussing them up to my wrists behind . 
There they left me , lying upon my stomach a most uncomfortable and strained position , to which was added the pain where the cords cut into my flesh . 
Just a few days ago my mind had been filled with the anticipation of the friendly welcome I should find among the cultured Englishmen of London . 
Today I should be sitting in the place of honor at the banquet board of one of London's most exclusive clubs , feted and lionized . 
I wondered what had become of Delcarte and Taylor and Snider . 
She had hastened to her mother the moment she had been liberated . 
Though she had returned with the old queen , she had not spoken to me , even then . 
I began to have my doubts . 
Finally , I came to the conclusion that I was absolutely friendless except for the old queen . 
For some unaccountable reason my rage against the girl for her ingratitude rose to colossal proportions . 
For a long time I waited for some one to come to my prison whom I might ask to bear word to the queen , but I seemed to have been forgotten . 
The strained position in which I lay became unbearable . 
I wriggled and twisted until I managed to turn myself partially upon my side , where I lay half facing the entrance to the dugout . 
I did not speak at first for fear of frightening the little one away . 
But when I was satisfied that her eyes had become sufficiently accustomed to the subdued light of the interior , I smiled . 
Instantly the expression of fear faded from her eyes to be replaced with an answering smile . 
Who are you , little girl ? I asked . 
My name is Mary , she replied . 
And who is Victory ? You do not know who Victory is ? she asked , in astonishment . 
I shook my head in negation . 
You saved her from the elephant country people , and yet you say you do not know her ! she exclaimed . 
Oh , so she is Victory , and you are her sister ! I have not heard her name before . 
That is why I did not know whom you meant , I explained . 
Here was just the messenger for me . 
Fate was becoming more kind . 
Will you do something for me , Mary ? I asked . 
Go to your mother , the queen , and ask her to come to me , I said . 
I have a favor to ask . 
She said that she would , and with a parting smile she left me . 
For what seemed many hours I awaited her return , chafing with impatience . 
The afternoon wore on and night came , and yet no one came near me . 
My captors brought me neither food nor water . 
I was suffering considerable pain where the rawhide thongs cut into my swollen flesh . 
I thought that they had either forgotten me , or that it was their intention to leave me here to die of starvation . 
Once I heard a great uproar in the village . 
Men were shouting women were screaming and moaning . 
After a time this subsided , and again there was a long interval of silence . 
Half the night must have been spent when I heard a sound in the trench near the hut . 
Presently a figure appeared , silhouetted against the lesser darkness beyond the doorway . 
It crept inside the hut . 
Are you here ? whispered a childlike voice . 
It was Mary ! She had returned . 
The thongs no longer hurt me . 
The pangs of hunger and thirst disappeared . 
I realized that it had been loneliness from which I suffered most . 
You are a good girl . 
You have come back , after all . 
I had commenced to think that you would not . 
What is it ? I asked . 
Why do you cry ? The queen , my mother , will not come to you , she said , between sobs . 
Now he will take Victory , for Victory is queen . 
He kept us fastened up in our shelter , for fear that Victory would escape him , but I dug a hole beneath the back wall and got out . 
I came to you , because you saved Victory once before , and I thought that you might save her again , and me , also . 
Tell me that you will . 
I am bound and helpless , Mary , I replied . 
Otherwise I would do what I could to save you and your sister . 
I will set you free ! cried the girl , creeping up to my side . 
I will set you free , and then you may come and slay Buckingham . 
We must hurry , she went on , as she fumbled with the hard knots in the stiffened rawhide , for Buckingham will be after you soon . 
He must make an offering to the lions at dawn before he can take Victory . 
The taking of a queen requires a human offering ! And I am to be the offering ? I asked . 
Yes , she said , tugging at a knot . 
Buckingham has been wanting a sacrifice ever since he killed Wettin , that he might slay my mother and take Victory . 
The thought was horrible , not solely because of the hideous fate to which I was condemned , but from the contemplation it engendered of the sad decadence of a once enlightened race . 
Mary labored with the thongs that confined me . 
They proved refractory defying her tender , childish fingers . 
She assured me , however , that she would release me , if they did not come too soon . 
But , alas , they came . 
We heard them coming down the trench , and I bade Mary hide in a corner , lest she be discovered and punished . 
There was naught else she could do , and so she crawled away into the Stygian blackness behind me . 
The leader exhibited a unique method of discovering my whereabouts in the darkness . 
He advanced slowly , kicking out viciously before him . 
Finally he kicked me in the face . 
Then he knew where I was . 
A moment later I had been jerked roughly to my feet . 
One of the fellows stopped and severed the bonds that held my ankles . 
I could scarcely stand alone . 
The two pulled and hauled me through the low doorway and along the trench . 
A party of forty or fifty warriors were awaiting us at the brink of the excavation some hundred yards from the hut . 
Hands were lowered to us , and we were dragged to the surface . 
Then commenced a long march . 
We stumbled through the underbrush wet with dew , our way lighted by a score of torchbearers who surrounded us . 
But the torches were not to light the way that was but incidental . 
They were carried to keep off the huge Carnivora that moaned and coughed and roared about us . 
The whole country seemed alive with lions . 
Yellow green eyes blazed wickedly at us from out the surrounding darkness . 
My escort carried long , heavy spears . 
It was for such that the spears were always couched . 
Here rose in crumbling grandeur the first evidences I had seen of the ancient civilization which once had graced fair Albion a single , time worn arch of masonry . 
The entrance to the Camp of the Lions ! murmured one of the party in a voice husky with awe . 
Here the party knelt , while Buckingham recited a weird , prayer like chant . 
Greatest of kings are thou ! To thee we humbly bow ! Peace to our camp allow . 
None of them , not even Buckingham , seemed to feel any personal animosity toward me . 
They were naturally rough and brutal , as primitive men are supposed to have been since the dawn of humanity , but they did not go out of their way to maltreat me . 
It appeared that the lions had failed to note that I had been left for their breakfast , and had followed off after their worshippers instead . 
I strove to tear myself loose from my bonds , but succeeded only in tightening them about my arms . 
Then I remained passive for a long time , letting the scenes of my lifetime pass in review before my mind's eye . 
Majestically and noiselessly upon his padded feet the king of beasts moved slowly toward the gates of London and toward me . 
Was I afraid ? I fear that I was almost afraid . 
I know that I thought that fear was coming to me , and so I straightened up and squared my shoulders and looked the lion straight in the eyes and waited . 
It is not a nice way to die alone , with one's hands fast bound , beneath the fangs and talons of a beast of prey . 
No , it is not a nice way to die , not a pretty way . 
The lion was halfway across the clearing when I heard a slight sound behind me . 
The great cat stopped in his tracks . 
He lashed his tail against his sides now , instead of simply twitching its tip , and his low moan became a thunderous roar . 
It was Victory , and in her arms she clutched my rifle and revolver . 
A long knife was in the doeskin belt that supported the doeskin skirt tightly about her lithe limbs . 
She dropped my weapons at my feet , and , snatching the knife from its resting place , severed the bonds that held me . 
I was free , and the lion was preparing to charge . 
Run ! I cried to the girl , as I bent and seized my rifle . 
But she only stood there at my side , her bared blade ready in her hand . 
The lion was bounding toward us now in prodigious leaps . 
I raised the rifle and fired . 
And , still upon my knees , I turned , and taking the girl's hand in mine , I kissed it . 
She smiled at that , and laid her other hand upon my head . 
You have strange customs in your country , she said . 
And now , I said , as I rose , you must return to the safety of your camp . 
I will go with you until you are near enough to continue alone in safety . 
Then I shall try to return to my comrades . 
I will not return to the camp , she replied . 
But what shall you do ? I asked . 
Only I shall never go back while Buckingham lives . 
I should rather die than go back to him . 
Mary came to me , after they had taken you from the camp , and told me . 
I found your strange weapons and followed with them . 
And leave you here ? I exclaimed . 
She nodded , but I could see through all her brave front that she was frightened at the thought . 
I pointed out that phase of it to her , but she only shrugged her shapely shoulders and pointed to her knife . 
It was evident that she felt entirely competent to protect herself . 
As we stood there we heard the sound of voices . 
They were coming from the forest through which we had passed when we had come from camp . 
They are searching for me , said the girl . 
Where shall we hide ? I didn't relish hiding . 
Would they follow us there ? I asked , pointing through the archway into the Camp of the Lions . 
Never , she replied , for , in the first place , they would know that we would not dare go there , and in the second they themselves would not dare . 
Then we shall take refuge in the Camp of the Lions , I said . 
She shuddered and drew closer to me . 
You dare ? she asked . 
Why not ? I returned . 
We shall be safe from Buckingham , and you have seen , for the second time in two days , that lions are harmless before my weapons . 
Do you not dare come with me ? I dare follow wherever you lead , she answered simply . 
And so I turned and passed beneath the great arch into the city of London . 
As we entered deeper into what had once been the city , the evidences of man's past occupancy became more frequent . 
But presently we came upon a district where shattered walls still raised their crumbling tops in sad silence above the grass grown sepulchers of their fallen fellows . 
Softened and mellowed by ancient ivy stood these sentinels of sorrow , their scarred faces still revealing the rents and gashes of shrapnel and of bomb . 
Contrary to our expectations , we found little indication that lions in any great numbers laired in this part of ancient London . 
We followed down the bank of the Thames after we came upon it . 
The bridge would be there in part , at least , and so would remain the walls of many of the great edifices of the past . 
There would be no such complete ruin of large structures as I had seen among the smaller buildings . 
But when I had come to that part of the city which I judged to have contained the relics I sought I found havoc that had been wrought there even greater than elsewhere . 
At one point upon the bosom of the Thames there rises a few feet above the water a single , disintegrating mound of masonry . 
Opposite it , upon either bank of the river , are tumbled piles of ruins overgrown with vegetation . 
These , I am forced to believe , are all that remain of London Bridge , for nowhere else along the river is there any other slightest sign of pier or abutment . 
Rounding the base of a large pile of grass covered debris , we came suddenly upon the best preserved ruin we had yet discovered . 
In many places the gray stone was still exposed , its smoothly chiseled face pitted with the scars of battle . 
The massive portal yawned , somber and sorrowful , before us , giving a glimpse of marble halls within . 
The temptation to enter was too great . 
I wished to explore the interior of this one remaining monument of civilization now dead beyond recall . 
Through this same portal , within these very marble halls , had Gray and Chamberlin and Kitchener and Shaw , perhaps , come and gone with the other great ones of the past . 
I took Victory's hand in mine . 
I do not know the name by which this great pile was known , nor the purposes it fulfilled . 
It may have been the palace of your sires , Victory . 
From some great throne within , your forebears may have directed the destinies of half the world . 
Come ! I must confess to a feeling of awe as we entered the rotunda of the great building . 
Pieces of massive furniture of another day still stood where man had placed them centuries ago . 
Splendid tapestries , now mildewed and rotting , hung upon the walls . 
There were mural paintings , too , depicting great historic events of the past . 
For the first time Victory saw the likeness of a horse , and she was much affected by a huge oil which depicted some ancient cavalry charge against a battery of field guns . 
In other pictures there were steamships , battleships , submarines , and quaint looking railway trains all small and antiquated in appearance to me , but wonderful to Victory . 
She told me that she would like to remain for the rest of her life where she could look at those pictures daily . 
From room to room we passed until presently we emerged into a mighty chamber , dark and gloomy , for its high and narrow windows were choked and clogged by ivy . 
Along one paneled wall we groped , our eyes slowly becoming accustomed to the darkness . 
A rank and pungent odor pervaded the atmosphere . 
We had made our way about half the distance across one end of the great apartment when a low growl from the far end brought us to a startled halt . 
Straining my eyes through the gloom , I made out a raised dais at the extreme opposite end of the hall . 
Upon the dais stood two great chairs , highbacked and with great arms . 
The throne of England ! But what were those strange forms about it ? Victory gave my hand a quick , excited little squeeze . 
The lions ! she whispered . 
Yes , lions indeed ! Sprawled about the dais were a dozen huge forms , while upon the seat of one of the thrones a small cub lay curled in slumber . 
His devilish eyes bored straight through the semi darkness toward us . 
He had discovered the interloper . 
What right had man within this palace of the beasts ? Again he opened his giant jaws , and this time there rumbled forth a warning roar . 
Instantly eight or ten of the other beasts leaped to their feet . 
Already the great fellow who had spied us was advancing slowly in our direction . 
I held my rifle ready , but how futile it appeared in the face of this savage horde . 
The foremost beast broke into a slow trot , and at his heels came the others . 
And then the leader charged , and upon the hideous pandemonium broke the sharp crack of my rifle , once , twice , thrice . 
Three lions rolled , struggling and biting , to the floor . 
Up this we backed , Victory just behind me , as the first of the remaining lions leaped from the throne room and sprang for the stairs . 
Again I fired , but others of the ferocious beasts leaped over their fallen fellows and pursued us . 
At last we reached the top . 
There was a long corridor from which opened many doorways . 
One , directly behind us , was tight closed . 
If we could open it and pass into the chamber behind we might find a respite from attack . 
The remaining lions were roaring horribly . 
I saw one sneaking very slowly up the stairs toward us . 
Try that door , I called to Victory . 
See if it will open . 
She ran up to it and pushed . 
Turn the knob ! I cried , seeing that she did not know how to open a door , but neither did she know what I meant by knob . 
I put a bullet in the spine of the approaching lion and leaped to Victory's side . 
The door resisted my first efforts to swing it inward . 
Rusted hinges and swollen wood held it tightly closed . 
But at last it gave , and just as another lion mounted to the top of the stairway it swung in , and I pushed Victory across the threshold . 
Then I turned to meet the renewed attack of the savage foe . 
One lion fell in his tracks , another stumbled to my very feet , and then I leaped within and slammed the portal to . 
Across the room , between two windows , stood a flat topped desk . 
A little pile of white and brown lay upon it close to the opposite edge . 
After a moment of rest I crossed the room to investigate . 
The white was the bleached human bones the skull , collar bones , arms , and a few of the upper ribs of a man . 
The brown was the dust of a decayed military cap and blouse . 
In a chair before the desk were other bones , while more still strewed the floor beneath the desk and about the chair . 
A man had died sitting there with his face buried in his arms two hundred years ago . 
Beneath the desk were a pair of spurred military boots , green and rotten with decay . 
In them were the leg bones of a man . 
It was a gruesome sight a pitiful sight this lone inhabitant of mighty London . 
I picked up the metal covered memoranda book . 
Its pages were rotten and stuck together . 
Only here and there was a sentence or a part of a sentence legible . 
The first that I could read was near the middle of the little volume His majesty left for Tunbridge Wells today , he . 
God give she does not die . 
am military governor of Lon . 
And farther on It is awful . 
Nearer the end I picked out the following I promised his maj . 
e will find me here when he ret . 
The most legible passage was on the next page Thank God we drove them out . 
There is not a single . 
man on British soil today but at what awful cost . 
I tried to persuade Sir Phillip to urge the people to remain . 
But they are mad with fear of the Death , and rage at our enemies . 
He tells me that the coast cities are packed . 
waiting to be taken across . 
What will become of England , with none left to rebuild her shattered cities ! And the last entry . 
A lion is roaring now beneath the palace windows . 
I think the people feared the beasts even more than they did the Death . 
But they are gone , all gone , and to what ? How much better conditions will they find on the continent ? All gone only I remain . 
I promised his majesty , and when he returns he will find that I was true to my trust , for I shall be awaiting him . 
God save the King ! That was all . 
This brave and forever nameless officer died nobly at his post true to his country and his king . 
It was the Death , no doubt , that took him . 
Some of the entries had been dated . 
From the few legible letters and figures which remained I judge the end came some time in August , , but of that I am not at all certain . 
The palace , if such it was , lay not far from the banks of the Thames . 
The room in which we were imprisoned overlooked the river , and I determined to attempt to escape in this direction . 
To descend through the palace was out of the question , but outside we could discover no lions . 
The stems of the ivy which clambered upward past the window of the room were as large around as my arm . 
Naturally I was much handicapped by the presence of the girl . 
But I could not abandon her , though I had no idea what I should do with her after rejoining my companions . 
I owed my life to her , and , all other considerations aside , that was sufficient demand upon my gratitude and my honor to necessitate my suffering every inconvenience in her service . 
Too , she was queen of England . 
But , by far the most potent argument in her favor , she was a woman in distress and a young and very beautiful one . 
I thank God now that I did so . 
With the lions still padding back and forth beyond the closed door , Victory and I crossed the room to one of the windows . 
I had outlined my plan to her , and she had assured me that she could descend the ivy without assistance . 
In fact , she smiled a trifle at my question . 
Releasing my hold upon the ivy , I dropped the re maining distance to the ground , saved from laceration only because the lion's paw struck the thick stem of ivy . 
But the opening was too narrow , and the masonry too solid . 
Victory had commenced the descent , but I called to her to stop just above the window , and , as the lion reappeared , growling and snarling , I put a . 
bullet in his face , and at the same moment Victory slipped quickly past him , dropping into my upraised arms that were awaiting her . 
I feared that it would not be long before intelligence or instinct would draw them from the interiors and set them upon our trail , the river . 
Nor had we much more than reached it when a lion bounded around the corner of the edifice we had just quitted and stood looking about as though in search of us . 
Following , came others , while Victory and I crouched in hiding behind a clump of bushes close to the bank of the river . 
The beasts sniffed about the ground for a while , but they did not chance to go near the spot where we had stood beneath the window that had given us escape . 
Presently a black maned male raised his head , and , with cocked ears and glaring eyes , gazed straight at the bush behind which we lay . 
I could have sworn that he had discovered us , and when he took a few short and stately steps in our direction I raised my rifle and covered him . 
But , after a long , tense moment he looked away , and turned to glare in another direction . 
I breathed a sigh of relief , and so did Victory . 
I could feel her body quiver as she lay pressed close to me , our cheeks almost touching as we both peered through the same small opening in the foliage . 
Anyway , as our heads turned simultaneously , our lips brushed together . 
A startled expression came into Victory's eyes as she drew back in evident confusion . 
As for me , the strangest sensation that I have ever experienced claimed me for an instant . 
A peculiar , tingling thrill ran through my veins , and my head swam . 
I could not account for it . 
Naturally , being a naval officer and consequently in the best society of the federation , I have seen much of women . 
I do not know , now , but that they were more nearly right than we have guessed , at least in so far as modern civilized woman is concerned . 
The occurrence interested me , and I was tempted to experiment further . 
But when I would have essayed it another new and entirely unaccountable force restrained me . 
For the first time in my life I felt embarrassment in the presence of a woman . 
What further might have developed I cannot say , for at that moment a perfect she devil of a lioness , with keener eyes than her lord and master , discovered us . 
She came trotting toward our place of concealment , growling and baring her yellow fangs . 
I waited for an instant , hoping that I might be mistaken , and that she would turn off in some other direction . 
But no she increased her trot to a gallop , and then I fired at her , but the bullet , though it struck her full in the breast , didn't stop her . 
Screaming with pain and rage , the creature fairly flew toward us . 
Behind her came other lions . 
We were upon the brink of the river . 
There seemed no avenue of escape , and I knew that even my modern automatic rifle was inadequate in the face of so many of these fierce beasts . 
To remain where we were would have been suicidal . 
We were both standing now , Victory keeping her place bravely at my side , when I reached the only decision open to me . 
But my relief was short lived . 
That lioness , as I have said before , was a veritable devil . 
She stood for a moment glaring at us , then like a shot she sprang into the river and swam swiftly after us . 
Victory was a length ahead of me . 
Swim for the other shore ! I called to her . 
I was much impeded by my rifle , having to swim with one hand while I clung to my precious weapon with the other . 
Go on ! I cried . 
Make for the other shore , and then follow down until you find my friends . 
Tell them that I sent you , and with orders that they are to protect you . 
Do as I tell you ! I said to her sharply , but she shook her head . 
The lioness was overhauling us rapidly . 
She was swimming silently , her chin just touching the water , but blood was streaming from between her lips . 
It was evident that her lungs were pierced . 
She was almost upon me . 
I saw that in a moment she would take me under her forepaws , or seize me in those great jaws . 
I felt that my time had come , but I meant to die fighting . 
And so I turned , and , treading water , raised my rifle above my head and awaited her . 
Victory , animated by a bravery no less ferocious than that of the dumb beast assailing us , swam straight for me . 
It all happened so swiftly that I cannot recall the details of the kaleidoscopic action which ensued . 
Still clinging to my rifle , I rose again , to see the lioness struggling in her death throes but an arm's length from me . 
Scarcely had I risen than the beast turned upon her side , struggled frantically for an instant , and then sank . 
Victory was nowhere in sight . 
Alone , I floated upon the bosom of the Thames . 
In that brief instant I believe that I suffered more mental anguish than I have crowded into all the balance of my life before or since . 
I was on the point of striking out to seize her , when a happy smile illumined her features . 
You are not dead ! she cried . 
I have been searching the bottom for you . 
I was sure that the blow she gave you must have disabled you , and she glanced about for the lioness . 
She has gone ? she asked . 
The blow you struck her with the thing you call rifle stunned her , she explained , and then I swam in close enough to get my knife into her heart . 
Ah , such a girl ! I could not but wonder what one of our own Pan American women would have done under like circumstances . 
But then , of course , they have not been trained by stern necessity to cope with the emergencies and dangers of savage primeval life . 
Along the bank we had just quitted , a score of lions paced to and fro , growling menacingly . 
We could not return , and we struck out for the opposite shore . 
She did not , however , reaching the opposite bank as fresh , apparently , as when she entered the water . 
Each day that we were together brought new proofs of it . 
Nor was it her courage or vitality only which amazed me . 
Now they were north somewhere , and we should have little to fear from them , though we might meet with a few . 
My first concern was to take my weapons apart and dry them , which was rather difficult in the face of the fact that every rag about me was drenched . 
But finally , thanks to the sun and much rubbing , I succeeded , though I had no oil to lubricate them . 
The balance of that day we sought in vain for game or for the launch , and when night came we lay down , our stomachs empty , to sleep beneath the stars . 
We were entirely unprotected from attack from wild beasts , and for this reason I remained awake most of the night , on guard . 
Toward morning I dozed , and the sun was well up when Victory aroused me by gently shaking my shoulder . 
Antelope ! she whispered in my ear , and , as I raised my head , she pointed up river . 
Crawling to my knees , I looked in the direction she indicated , to see a buck standing upon a little knoll some two hundred yards from us . 
His whole attitude proclaimed that he was startled by something beyond him that I could not see . 
Realizing that he might break and run and that I should then probably miss him entirely , I raised my rifle to my shoulder . 
But even as I did so the animal leaped into the air , and simultaneously there was a sound of a shot from beyond the knoll . 
For an instant I was dumbfounded . 
Had the report come from down river , I should have instantly thought that one of my own men had fired . 
But coming from up river it puzzled me considerably . 
We could see that the buck was quite dead , and from our hiding place we waited to discover the identity of his slayer when the latter should approach and claim his kill . 
They both were astounded to see me upon the north bank of the river , and much more so at the sight of my companion . 
Then I introduced them to Victory , and told them that she was queen of England . 
They thought , at first , that I was joking . 
But when I had recounted my adventures and they realized that I was in earnest , they believed me . 
And that afterward they had returned to the launch with a prisoner , from whom they had learned that I had probably been captured by the men of the lion country . 
Taking the antelope with us , we all returned to the launch , where we found Taylor as delighted to see me alive again as Delcarte had been . 
I cannot say truthfully that Snider evinced much enthusiasm at my rescue . 
Taylor had found the ingredients for chemical fuel , and the distilling of them had , with the motor trouble , accounted for their delay in setting out after me . 
The prisoner that Delcarte and Snider had taken was a powerful young fellow from the elephant country . 
Notwithstanding the fact that they had all assured him to the contrary , he still could not believe that we would not kill him . 
Now that we were reunited , we held a council to determine what course we should pursue in the immediate future . 
Snider was still for setting out to sea and returning to Pan America , but the better judgment of Delcarte and Taylor ridiculed the suggestion we should not have lived a fortnight . 
To remain in England , constantly menaced by wild beasts and men equally as wild , seemed about as bad . 
I suggested that we cross the Channel and ascertain if we could not discover a more enlightened and civilized people upon the continent . 
I was sure that some trace of the ancient culture and greatness of Europe must remain . 
Snider demurred at the suggestion . 
He said that it was bad enough to have come this far . 
He did not want to make it worse by going to the continent . 
Snider said nothing , but he wore a sullen scowl . 
She spoke of killing Buckingham with no greater concern than one might evince in the contemplated destruction of a sheep yet she was neither cruel nor vindictive . 
In fact , Victory is a very sweet and womanly woman . 
Thirty six , finally assured that we did not intend slaying him , was as keen to accompany us as was Victory . 
Victory asked me to explain the difference between the two , and when I had tried to do so as clearly as possible , she broke into a gay little laugh . 
Oh , she cried , then I am a barbarian ! I could not but laugh , too , as I admitted that she was , indeed , a barbarian . 
She was not offended , taking the matter as a huge joke . 
But some time thereafter she sat in silence , apparently deep in thought . 
Finally she looked up at me , her strong white teeth gleaming behind her smiling lips . 
There is no other difference between you , except your weapons . 
I was not surprised at Thirty six , but I thought that Snider laughed louder than the occasion warranted . 
I could not help but notice that his eyes were much upon Victory , and I did not like it , for I knew the type of man he was . 
But as it would not be necessary ever to leave the girl alone with him I felt no apprehension for her safety . 
After the incident of the discussion of barbarians I thought that Victory's manner toward me changed perceptibly . 
She held aloof from me , and when Snider took his turn at the wheel , sat beside him , upon the pretext that she wished to learn how to steer the launch . 
I wondered if she had guessed the man's antipathy for me , and was seeking his company solely for the purpose of piquing me . 
Snider was , too , taking full advantage of his opportunity . 
Often he leaned toward the girl to whisper in her ear , and he laughed much , which was unusual with Snider . 
We aimed to land near the site of ancient Ostend . 
But when we neared the coast we discovered no indication of any human habitations whatever , let alone a city . 
After we had landed , we found the same howling wilderness about us that we had discovered on the British Isle . 
There was no slightest indication that civilized man had ever set a foot upon that portion of the continent of Europe . 
I was angry with myself that I permitted that matter to affect me as it had . 
And yet , to be honest , I was doing both . 
It was my intention to explore the Rhine as far up as the launch would take us . 
If we found no civilization there we would return to the North Sea , continue up the coast to the Elbe , and follow that river and the canals of Berlin . 
Here , at least , I was sure that we should find what we sought and , if not , then all Europe had reverted to barbarism . 
I was not enjoying the exploration of modern Europe as I had anticipated I was unhappy . 
Victory seemed changed , too . 
I had enjoyed her company at first , but since the trip across the Channel I had held aloof from her . 
Her chin was in the air most of the time , and yet I rather think that she regretted her friendliness with Snider , for I noticed that she avoided him entirely . 
He , on the contrary , emboldened by her former friendliness , sought every opportunity to be near her . 
I should have liked nothing better than a reasonably good excuse to punch his head yet , paradoxically , I was ashamed of myself for harboring him any ill will . 
I realized that there was something the matter with me , but I did not know what it was . 
Matters remained thus for several days , and we continued our journey up the Rhine . 
At Cologne , I had hoped to find some reassuring indications , but there was no Cologne . 
And as there had been no other cities along the river up to that point , the devastation was infinitely greater than time alone could have wrought . 
Splendid trees reared their stately tops where splendid cathedrals once had reared their domes , and sweet wild flowers blossomed in simple serenity in soil that once was drenched with human blood . 
Nature had reclaimed what man had once stolen from her and defiled . 
A herd of zebras grazed where once the German kaiser may have reviewed his troops . 
But it had to be done we must eat . 
I left the work to Delcarte , however , and in a moment we had two antelope and the landscape to ourselves . 
After eating , we boarded the launch and continued up the river . 
For two days we passed through a primeval wilderness . 
We had covered about half the distance to the river , when I suddenly came face to face with a man . 
The fellow was armed with a long spear and a club , the latter dangling down his back from a leathern thong about his neck . 
His feet were incased in hide sandals . 
I was still some distance ahead of Delcarte and Taylor , when I came in sight of the Rhine again . 
But I came to the water's edge before I noticed that anything was amiss with the party we had left there a few hours before . 
My first intimation of disaster was the absence of the launch from its former moorings . 
And then , a moment later I discovered the body of a man lying upon the bank . 
He was not dead , but that he was badly injured was all too evident . 
My first thought was prompted by the sight I had recently had of the savage native . 
The little party had evidently been surprised , and in the attack Thirty six had been wounded and the others taken prisoners . 
The thought was almost like a physical blow in the face it stunned me . 
Victory in the hands of these abysmal brutes ! It was frightful . 
I almost shook poor Thirty six in my efforts to revive him . 
I explained my theory to the others , and then Delcarte shattered it by a single movement of the hand . 
At about the same time the eyelids of the wounded man fluttered , and raised . 
He looked up at us , and very slowly the light of consciousness returned to his eyes . 
What happened , Thirty six ? I asked him . 
He tried to reply , but the effort caused him to cough , bringing about a hemorrhage of the lungs and again he fell back exhausted . 
For several long minutes he lay as one dead , then in an almost inaudible whisper he spoke . 
Snider He paused , tried to speak again , raised a hand , and pointed down river . 
They went back , and then he shuddered convulsively and died . 
None of us voiced his belief . 
But I think they were all alike Victory and Snider had stolen the launch , and deserted us . 
We are lost ! was written as plainly upon Taylor's face as though his features were the printed words upon an open book . 
He was thinking of the launch , and of the launch alone . 
Was I ? I tried to think that I was . 
And then rage came to my relief rage against the vile traitor who had deserted three of his fellow countrymen in so frightful a position . 
I tried to feel an equal rage against the woman , but somehow I could not , and kept searching for excuses for her her youth , her inexperience , her savagery . 
My rising anger swept away my temporary helplessness . 
I smiled , and told Taylor not to look so glum . 
We will follow them , I said , and the chances are that we shall overtake them . 
They will not travel as rapidly as Snider probably hopes . 
He will be forced to halt for fuel and for food , and the launch must follow the windings of the river we can take short cuts while they are traversing the detour . 
I have my map thank God ! I always carry it upon my person and with that and the compass we will have an advantage over them . 
My words seemed to cheer them both , and they were for starting off at once in pursuit . 
There was no reason why we should delay , and we set forth down the river . 
As a matter of fact , we had to succeed . 
The very thought of remaining in this utter wilderness for the rest of our lives was impossible . 
I fell to wondering what charm Victory had found in such a man as Snider , and why I insisted upon finding excuses for her and trying to defend her indefensible act . 
She was nothing to me . 
Aside from the natural gratitude I felt for her since she had saved my life , I owed her nothing . 
She was a half naked little savage I , a gentleman , and an officer in the world's greatest navy . 
There could be no close bonds of interest between us . 
Every time this vision presented itself I felt myself turn cold with rage and hate against Snider . 
I could forgive the launch , but if he had wronged her he should die he should die at my own hands in this I was determined . 
For two days we followed the river northward , cutting off where we could , but confined for the most part to the game trails that paralleled the stream . 
One afternoon , we cut across a narrow neck of land that saved us many miles , where the river wound to the west and back again . 
We had shot a deer just before our halt , and , as Taylor and Delcarte were preparing it , I walked down to the water to fill our canteens . 
I had just finished , and was straightening up , when something floating around a bend above me caught my eye . 
For a moment I could not believe the testimony of my own senses . 
I shouted to Delcarte and Taylor , who came running to my side . 
The launch ! cried Delcarte and , indeed , it was the launch , floating down river from above us . 
Where had it been ? How had we passed it ? And how were we to reach it now , should Snider and the girl discover us ? It's drifting , said Taylor . 
I see no one in it . 
I was stripping off my clothes , and Delcarte soon followed my example . 
I told Taylor to remain on shore with the clothing and rifles . 
He might also serve us better there , since it would give him an opportunity to take a shot at Snider should the man discover us and show himself . 
With powerful strokes we swam out in the path of the oncoming launch . 
Being a stronger swimmer than Delcarte , I soon was far in the lead , reaching the center of the channel just as the launch bore down upon me . 
It was drifting broadside on . 
I seized the gunwale and raised myself quickly , so that my chin topped the side . 
I expected a blow the moment that I came within the view of the occupants , but no blow fell . 
Snider lay upon his back in the bottom of the boat alone . 
Even before I had clambered in and stooped above him I knew that he was dead . 
Without examining him further , I ran forward to the control board and pressed the starting button . 
To my relief , the mechanism responded the launch was uninjured . 
Coming about , I picked up Delcarte . 
The fellow had been dead for hours he was cold and still . 
They say that dead men tell no tales , but Snider told the story of his end as clearly as though the dead lips had parted and poured forth the truth . 
The beast had attacked the girl , and she had defended her honor . 
We buried Snider beside the Rhine , and no stone marks his last resting place . 
Beasts do not require headstones . 
Then we set out in the launch , turning her nose upstream . 
When I had told Delcarte and Taylor that I intended searching for the girl , neither had demurred . 
We had her wrong in our thoughts , said Delcarte , and the least that we can do in expiation is to find and rescue her . 
That Victory carried flint and steel I was aware , and that it was she who built the fire I was positive . 
While waiting for them , I stood looking out over the river , my back toward the woods that stretched away to the east behind me . 
I struggled for an instant , but finding my efforts of no avail , I ceased them , and turned my head to have a look at my assailants . 
My good men wanted to come on and annihilate the blacks . 
A young officer called and beckoned to them . 
But they refused to come , and so he gave orders that resulted in my hands being secured at my back , after which the company marched away , straight toward the east . 
I noticed that the men wore spurs , which seemed strange to me . 
But when , late in the afternoon , we arrived at their encampment , I discovered that my captors were cavalrymen . 
In the center of a plain stood a log fort , with a block house at each of its four corners . 
As we approached , I saw a herd of cavalry horses grazing under guard outside the walls of the post . 
They were small , stocky horses , but the telltale saddle galls proclaimed their calling . 
The flag flying from a tall staff inside the palisade was one which I had never before seen nor heard of . 
We marched directly into the compound , where the company was dismissed , with the exception of a guard of four privates , who escorted me in the wake of the young officer . 
The latter led us across a small parade ground , where a battery of light field guns was parked , and toward a log building , in front of which rose the flagstaff . 
I was escorted within the building into the presence of an old negro , a fine looking man , with a dignified and military bearing . 
He was a colonel , I was to learn later , and to him I owe the very humane treatment that was accorded me while I remained his prisoner . 
He listened to the report of his junior , and then turned to question me , but with no better results than the former had accomplished . 
Then he summoned an orderly , and gave some instructions . 
The colonel evidently expected to use the fellow as interpreter , but when the savage addressed me it was in a language as foreign to me as was that of the blacks . 
At last the old officer gave it up , and , shaking his head , gave instructions for my removal . 
From his office I was led to a guardhouse , in which I found about fifty half naked whites , clad in the skins of wild beasts . 
I tried to converse with them , but not one of them could understand Pan American , nor could I make head or tail of their jargon . 
For over a month I remained a prisoner there , working from morning until night at odd jobs about the headquarters building of the commanding officer . 
The other prisoners worked harder than I did , and I owe my better treatment solely to the kindliness and discrimination of the old colonel . 
What had become of Victory , of Delcarte , of Taylor I could not know nor did it seem likely that I should ever learn . 
But I whiled away my time in performing the duties given me to the best of my ability and attempting to learn the language of my captors . 
Who they were or where they came from was a mystery to me . 
That they were the outpost of some pow erful black nation seemed likely , yet where the seat of that nation lay I could not guess . 
They looked upon the whites as their inferiors , and treated us accordingly . 
They had a literature of their own , and many of the men , even the common soldiers , were omnivorous readers . 
Every two weeks a dust covered trooper would trot his jaded mount into the post and deliver a bulging sack of mail at headquarters . 
Troops , sometimes mounted and sometimes afoot , left the post daily for what I assumed to be patrol duty . 
I judged the little force of a thousand men were detailed here to maintain the authority of a distant government in a conquered country . 
Slowly I learned their tongue , so that I could understand what was said before me , and make myself understood . 
I had seen from the first that I was being treated as a slave that all whites that fell into the hands of the blacks were thus treated . 
There was great jubilation in the encampment after the arrival of the newcomers , old friendships were renewed and new ones made . 
But the happiest men were those of the troop that was to be relieved . 
The next morning they started away , and as they were forced upon the parade ground we prisoners were marched from our quarters and lined up before them . 
A couple of long chains were brought , with rings in the links every few feet . 
At first I could not guess the purpose of these chains . 
But I was soon to learn . 
The colonel stood watching the procedure . 
Presently his eyes fell upon me , and he spoke to a young officer at his side . 
The latter stepped toward me and motioned me to follow him . 
I did so , and was led back to the colonel . 
About three hundred prisoners who had been housed in six prisons at the post marched out of the gates that morning , toward what fate and what future I could not guess . 
My position was altered at the post . 
From working about the headquarters office , I was transferred to the colonel's living quarters . 
I had greater freedom , and no longer slept in one of the prisons , but had a little room to myself off the kitchen of the colonel's log house . 
My master was always kind to me , and under him I rapidly learned the language of my captors , and much concerning them that had been a mystery to me before . 
His name was Abu Belik . 
Colonel Belik was born in Adis Abeba , the capital of the empire , and until recently had been in command of the emperor's palace guard . 
Some fifty years before , the young emperor , Menelek XIV , was ambitious . 
He knew that a great world lay across the waters far to the north of his capital . 
Once he had crossed the desert and looked out upon the blue sea that was the northern boundary of his dominions . 
There lay another world to conquer . 
Menelek busied himself with the building of a great fleet , though his people were not a maritime race . 
His army crossed into Europe . 
It met with little resistance , and for fifty years his soldiers had been pushing his boundaries farther and farther toward the north . 
You are a Christian people ? I asked . 
He looked at me in surprise , nodding his head affirmatively . 
I am a Christian , I said . 
My people are the most powerful on earth . 
He smiled , and shook his head indulgently , as a father to a child who sets up his childish judgment against that of his elders . 
Then I set out to prove my point . 
I told him of our cities , of our army , of our great navy . 
He came right back at me asking for figures , and when he was done I had to admit that only in our navy were we numerically superior . 
He has a standing army of ten million men , and his people possess slaves white slaves to the number of ten or fifteen million . 
It was difficult for him to believe my assertion that there were but few blacks in my country , and that these occupied a lower social plane than the whites . 
Just the reverse is true in Colonel Belik's land . 
They live in the poorer districts of the cities , in little white colonies , and a black who marries a white is socially ostracized . 
The arms and ammunition of the Abyssinians are greatly inferior to ours , yet they are tremendously effective against the ill armed barbarians of Europe . 
They are of extraordinary length , even those of the cavalry , and are of extreme accuracy . 
They are the patricians the aristocracy . 
The army is officered almost exclusively by them . 
Among the soldiery a lower type of negro predominates , with thicker lips and broader , flatter noses . 
These men are recruited , so the colonel told me , from among the conquered tribes of Africa . 
They are good soldiers brave and loyal . 
As his body servant , I accompanied him mounted upon a fiery little Abyssinian pony . 
We marched rapidly for ten days through the heart of the ancient German empire , halting when night found us in proximity to water . 
Naturally , the colonel had not confided to me the nature of his orders . 
There were large bodies of cavalry and infantry , endless streams of artillery wagons and guns , and countless horse drawn covered vehicles laden with camp equipage , munitions , and provisions . 
Here , for the first time , I saw camels , great caravans of them , bearing all sorts of heavy burdens , and miles upon miles of elephants doing similar service . 
As I witnessed it , I could not but speculate upon the moral effect upon his troops of a sovereign's presence in the midst of battle . 
But if the emperor chanced to be absent ? What then ? Again I wonder . 
On the eleventh day we reached our destination a walled frontier city of about twenty thousand . 
We passed some lakes , and crossed some old canals before entering the gates . 
Within , beside the frame buildings , were many built of ancient brick and well cut stone . 
These , I was told , were of material taken from the ruins of the ancient city which , once , had stood upon the site of the present town . 
The name of the town , translated from the Abyssinian , is New Gondar . 
The day after we arrived , the town was gaily decorated with flags , streamers , gorgeous rugs , and banners , for the rumor had proved true the emperor was coming . 
Colonel Belik had accorded me the greatest liberty , permitting me to go where I pleased , after my few duties had been performed . 
As a result of his kindness , I spent much time wandering about New Gondar , talking with the inhabitants , and exploring the city of black men . 
They answered my questions civilly enough , but they would not enter into conversation with me . 
It was from other slaves that I learned the gossip of the city . 
Troops were pouring in from the west and south , and pouring out toward the east . 
I asked an old slave who was sweeping the dirt into little piles in the gutters of the street where the soldiers were going . 
He looked at me in surprise . 
Why , to fight the yellow men , of course , he said . 
They have crossed the border , and are marching toward New Gondar . 
Who will win ? I asked . 
Who knows ? he said . 
I hope it will be the yellow men , but Menelek is powerful it will take many yellow men to defeat him . 
Crowds were gathering along the sidewalks to view the emperor's entry into the city . 
Down the broad main thoroughfare , which may once have been the historic Unter den Linden , came a brilliant cortege . 
At the head rode a regiment of red coated hussars enormous men , black as night . 
There were troops of riflemen mounted on camels . 
His eyes were bright but crafty , and his features denoted both sensuality and cruelness . 
In his youth he may have been a rather fine looking black , but when I saw him his appearance was revolting to me , at least . 
Following the emperor came regiment after regiment from the various branches of the service , among them batteries of field guns mounted on elephants . 
In the center of the troops following the imperial elephant marched a great caravan of slaves . 
The old street sweeper at my elbow told me that these were the gifts brought in from the far outlying districts by the commanding officers of the frontier posts . 
The majority of them were women , destined , I was told , for the harems of the emperor and his favorites . 
For a week the troops kept pouring in and out of New Gondar in , always , from the south and west , but always toward the east . 
Each new contingent brought its gifts to the emperor . 
From the south they brought rugs and ornaments and jewels from the west , slaves for the commanding officers of the western frontier posts had naught else to bring . 
From the number of women they brought , I judged that they knew the weakness of their imperial master . 
It was then that Menelek XIV became uneasy . 
For fifty years his armies had conquered wherever they had marched . 
One morning , New Gondar was awakened by the booming of cannon . 
It was the first intimation that the townspeople had received that the enemy was forcing the imperial troops back upon the city . 
Dust covered couriers galloped in from the front . 
Fresh troops hastened from the city , and about noon Menelek rode out surrounded by his staff . 
For three days thereafter we could hear the cannonading and the spitting of the small arms , for the battle line was scarce two leagues from New Gondar . 
The city was filled with wounded . 
Just outside , soldiers were engaged in throwing up earthworks . 
It was evident to the least enlightened that Menelek expected further reverses . 
And then the imperial troops fell back upon these new defenses , or , rather , they were forced back by the enemy . 
Shells commenced to fall within the city . 
Menelek returned and took up his headquarters in the stone building that was called the palace . 
That night came a lull in the hostilities a truce had been arranged . 
Colonel Belik summoned me about seven o'clock to dress him for a function at the palace . 
In the midst of death and defeat the emperor was about to give a great banquet to his officers . 
Yet there was nothing for it but to obey . 
As fond as I had grown of him , I could have thrust a knife into him , so keenly did I feel the affront that had been put upon me . 
But at last the long banquet was concluded . 
The emperor ascended a dais at one end of the room and seated himself upon a throne , and the entertainment commenced . 
It was only what ancient history might have led me to expect musicians , dancing girls , jugglers , and the like . 
Ah , what royal generosity ! A small door at one side of the room opened , and the poor creatures filed in and were ranged in a long line before the throne . 
Their backs were toward me . 
I saw only an occasional profile as now and then a bolder spirit among them turned to survey the apartment and the gorgeous assemblage of officers in their brilliant dress uniforms . 
They were profiles of young girls , and pretty , but horror was indelibly stamped upon them all . 
I shuddered as I contemplated their sad fate , and turned my eyes away . 
I heard the master of ceremonies command them to prostrate themselves before the emperor , and the sounds as they went upon their knees before him , touching their foreheads to the floor . 
Then came the official's voice again , in sharp and peremptory command . 
Down , slave ! he cried . 
Down ! Down ! shouted the master of ceremonies , taking a step toward her and half drawing his sword . 
To stand there , inactive , while a negro struck down that brave girl of my own race ! Instinctively I took a forward step to place myself in the man's path . 
But at the same instant Menelek raised his hand in a gesture that halted the officer . 
The emperor seemed interested , but in no way angered at the girl's attitude . 
She answered him in Abyssinian , but brokenly and with an accent that betrayed how recently she had acquired her slight knowledge of the tongue . 
I go on my knees to no one , she said . 
I myself am sovereign in my own country . 
Menelek , at her words , leaned back in his throne and laughed uproariously . 
Following his example , which seemed always the correct procedure , the assembled guests vied with one another in an effort to laugh more noisily than the emperor . 
The girl but tilted her chin a bit higher in the air even her back proclaimed her utter contempt for her captors . 
Finally Menelek restored quiet by the simple expedient of a frown , whereupon each loyal guest exchanged his mirthful mien for an emulative scowl . 
Victory ! She was here , a slave to these black conquerors . 
Once more I started toward her , but better judgment held me back I could do nothing to help her other than by stealth . 
Could I even accomplish aught by this means ? I did not know . 
It seemed beyond the pale of possibility , and yet I should try . 
And you will not bend the knee to me ? continued Menelek , after she had spoken . 
Victory shook her head in a most decided negation . 
You shall be my first choice , then , said the emperor . 
I like your spirit , for the breaking of it will add to my pleasure in you , and never fear but that it shall be broken this very night . 
Take her to my apartments , and he motioned to an officer at his side I was surprised to see Victory follow the man off in apparent quiet submission . 
I tried to follow , that I might be near her against some opportunity to speak with her or assist in her escape . 
Almost immediately the officer reappeared and started back in the direction of the throne room . 
I have not attempted to fully describe my sensations at the moment I recognized Victory , because , I can assure you , they were entirely indescribable . 
I was filled with a strange , mad impulse to be near her . 
It was not enough merely to assist her , or protect her I desired to touch her to take her in my arms . 
I was astounded at myself . 
Another thing puzzled me it was my incomprehensible feeling of elation since I had again seen her . 
It seemed ages that I stood in the shadow of that doorway , in the ill lit corridor of the palace of Menelek XIV . 
A sickly gas jet cast a sad pallor upon the black face of the sentry . 
The fellow seemed rooted to the spot . 
Evidently he would never leave , or turn his back again . 
I had been in hiding but a short time when I heard the sound of distant cannon . 
The truce had ended , and the battle had been resumed . 
Very shortly thereafter the earth shook to the explosion of a shell within the city , and from time to time thereafter other shells burst at no great distance from the palace . 
The yellow men were bombarding New Gondar again . 
Presently officers and slaves commenced to traverse the corridor on matters pertaining to their duties , and then came the emperor , scowling and wrathful . 
He was followed by a few personal attendants , whom he dismissed at the doorway to his apartments the same doorway through which Victory had been taken . 
I chafed to follow him , but the corridor was filled with people . 
At last they betook themselves to their own apartments , which lay upon either side of the corridor . 
An officer and a slave entered the very room in which I hid , forcing me to flatten myself to one side in the darkness until they had passed . 
Then the slave made a light , and I knew that I must find another hiding place . 
Stepping boldly into the corridor , I saw that it was now empty save for the single sentry before the emperor's door . 
He glanced up as I emerged from the room , the occupants of which had not seen me . 
I walked straight toward the soldier , my mind made up in an instant . 
Then it was too late for him . 
Without a word or a warning , I snatched the piece from his grasp , and , at the same time struck him a terrific blow between the eyes with my clenched fist . 
He staggered back in surprise , too dumbfounded even to cry out , and then I clubbed his rifle and felled him with a single mighty blow . 
A moment later , I had burst into the room beyond . 
It was empty ! I gazed about , mad with disappointment . 
Two doors opened from this to other rooms . 
I ran to the nearer and listened . 
Yes , voices were coming from beyond and one was a woman's , level and cold and filled with scorn . 
There was no terror in it . 
I turned the knob and pushed the door inward just in time to see Menelek seize the girl and drag her toward the far end of the apartment . 
At the same instant there was a deafening roar just outside the palace a shell had struck much nearer than any of its predecessors . 
The noise of it drowned my rapid rush across the room . 
But in her struggles , Victory turned Menelek about so that he saw me . 
She was striking him in the face with her clenched fist , and now he was choking her . 
At sight of me , he gave voice to a roar of anger . 
What means this , slave ? he cried . 
Out of here ! Out of here ! Quick , before I kill you ! But for answer I rushed upon him , striking him with the butt of the rifle . 
He staggered back , dropping Victory to the floor , and then he cried aloud for the guard , and came at me . 
Again and again I struck him but his thick skull might have been armor plate , for all the damage I did it . 
I had not dared fire the weapon for fear that its report would bring the larger guard stationed at the farther end of the corridor . 
We struggled about the room , striking one another , knocking over furniture , and rolling upon the floor . 
Menelek was a powerful man , and he was fighting for his life . 
Continually he kept calling for the guard , until I succeeded in getting a grip upon his throat but it was too late . 
His cries had been heard , and suddenly the door burst open , and a score of armed guardsmen rushed into the apartment . 
Victory seized the rifle from the floor and leaped between me and them . 
I had the black emperor upon his back , and both my hands were at his throat , choking the life from him . 
The rest happened in the fraction of a second . 
There was a rending crash above us , then a deafening explosion within the chamber . 
Smoke and powder fumes filled the room . 
Half stunned , I rose from the lifeless body of my antagonist just in time to see Victory stagger to her feet and turn toward me . 
Slowly the smoke cleared to reveal the shattered remnants of the guard . 
A shell had fallen through the palace roof and exploded just in the rear of the detachment of guardsmen who were coming to the rescue of their emperor . 
Why neither Victory nor I were struck is a miracle . 
The room was a wreck . 
A great , jagged hole was torn in the ceiling , and the wall toward the corridor had been blown entirely out . 
As I rose , Victory had risen , too , and started toward me . 
But when she saw that I was uninjured she stopped , and stood there in the center of the demolished apartment looking at me . 
Her expression was inscrutable I could not guess whether she was glad to see me , or not . 
There was no answering gladness in her eyes . 
Instead , she stamped her little foot in anger . 
Why did it have to be you who saved me ! she exclaimed . 
I hate you ! Hate me ? I asked . 
Why should you hate me , Victory ? I do not hate you . 
I I What was I about to say ? I was very close to her as a great light broke over me . 
Why had I never realized it before ? The truth accounted for a great many hitherto inexplicable moods that had claimed me from time to time since first I had seen Victory . 
Why should I hate you ? she repeated . 
Because Snider told me he told me that you had promised me to him , but he did not get me . 
I killed him , as I should like to kill you ! Snider lied ! I cried . 
And then I seized her and held her in my arms , and made her listen to me , though she struggled and fought like a young lioness . 
I love you , Victory . 
You must know that I love you that I have always loved you , and that I never could have made so base a promise . 
She ceased her struggles , just a trifle , but still tried to push me from her . 
You called me a barbarian ! she said . 
Ah , so that was it ! That still rankled . 
I crushed her to me . 
You could not love a barbarian , she went on , but she had ceased to struggle . 
But I do love a barbarian , Victory ! I cried , the dearest barbarian in the world . 
She raised her eyes to mine , and then her smooth , brown arms encircled my neck and drew my lips down to hers . 
I love you I have loved you always ! she said , and then she buried her face upon my shoulder and sobbed . 
I have been so unhappy , she said , but I could not die while I thought that you might live . 
To remain long would be to invite certain death . 
Upon the opposite side of the room was another door , and toward this I led the way . 
It opened into a third apartment with windows overlooking an inner court . 
From one of these windows I surveyed the courtyard . 
Apparently it was empty , and the rooms upon the opposite side were unlighted . 
As we stood close behind one of the doors , listening , a horse within neighed . 
The stables ! I whispered , and , a moment later , had pushed back a door and entered . 
The bombardment had ceased as suddenly as it had commenced . 
I judged that the enemy was storming the city , for the sounds we heard were the sounds of hand to hand combat . 
Within the stables I groped about until I had found saddles and bridles for two horses . 
But afterward , in the darkness , I could find but a single mount . 
The doors of the opposite side , leading to the street , were open , and we could see great multitudes of men , women , and children fleeing toward the west . 
Soldiers , afoot and mounted , were joining the mad exodus . 
Now and then a camel or an elephant would pass bearing some officer or dignitary to safety . 
It was evident that the city would fall at any moment a fact which was amply proclaimed by the terror stricken haste of the fear mad mob . 
Horse , camel , and elephant trod helpless women and children beneath their feet . 
A common soldier dragged a general from his mount , and , leaping to the animal's back , fled down the packed street toward the west . 
A woman seized a gun and brained a court dignitary , whose horse had trampled her child to death . 
Shrieks , curses , commands , supplications filled the air . 
It was a frightful scene one that will be burned upon my memory forever . 
To have entered it would have been to have courted greater danger than we were already in . 
More and more numerous became the uniformed soldiers among the fleeing throng , until , toward the last , the street was packed with them . 
It was no orderly retreat , but a rout , complete and terrible . 
The fighting was steadily approaching us now , until the crack of rifles sounded in the very street upon which we were looking . 
But these were pressed back and back until the first line of the enemy came opposite our shelter . 
They were men of medium height , with olive complexions and almond eyes . 
In them I recognized the descendants of the ancient Chinese race . 
They were well uniformed and superbly armed , and they fought bravely and under perfect discipline . 
So rapt was I in the exciting events transpiring in the street that I did not hear the approach of a body of men from behind . 
It was a party of the conquerors who had entered the palace and were searching it . 
They came upon us so unexpectedly that we were prisoners before we realized what had happened . 
That night we were held under a strong guard just outside the eastern wall of the city , and the next morning were started upon a long march toward the east . 
Our captors were not unkind to us , and treated the women prisoners with respect . 
It is only a small frontier city , but it is well built and well kept . 
Here a large military force is maintained , and here also , is a terminus of the railroad that crosses modern China to the Pacific . 
We could converse with our captors only through the medium of interpreters who spoke both Chinese and Abyssinian . 
The reply to my request was a summons to appear before the officer to whom I had addressed my appeal . 
To my delight I found that the officer into whose presence we were conducted spoke Abyssinian fluently . 
He was astounded when I told him that I was a Pan American . 
He immediately set aside a comfortable house for us , furnished us with servants and with money , and in other ways showed us every attention and kindness . 
He told me that he would telegraph his emperor at once , and the result was that we were presently commanded to repair to Peking and present ourselves before the ruler . 
We made the journey in a comfortable railway carriage , through a country which , as we traveled farther toward the east , showed increasing evidence of prosperity and wealth . 
At the imperial court we were received with great kindness , the emperor being most inquisitive about the state of modern Pan America . 
His empire includes all of Asia , and the islands of the Pacific as far east as dW . 
The empire of Japan no longer exists , having been conquered and absorbed by China over a hundred years ago . 
The Philippines are well administered , and constitute one of the most progressive colonies of the Chinese empire . 
The emperor told me that the building of this great empire and the spreading of enlightenment among its diversified and savage peoples had required all the best efforts of nearly two hundred years . 
Upon his accession to the throne he had found the labor well nigh perfected and had turned his attention to the reclamation of Europe . 
Those who did not fight were the only ones to reap any of the rewards that are supposed to belong to victory . 
The combatants reaped naught but annihilation . 
You have seen better than any man you must realize that there was no victory for any nation embroiled in that frightful war . 
When did it end ? I asked him . 
Again he shook his head . 
It has not ended yet . 
There has never been a formal peace declared in Europe . 
After a while there were none left to make peace , and the rude tribes which sprang from the survivors continued to fight among themselves because they knew no better condition of society . 
War razed the works of man war and pestilence razed man . 
His eloquent appeal not for himself , but for me is historic , as are its results . 
My return to Pan America was very different from anything I could possibly have imagined a year before . 
Instead of being received as a traitor to my country , I was acclaimed a hero . 
And now we are going back , Victory and I , with the men and the munitions and power to reclaim England for her queen . 
I have been through much I have suffered much , but I have won two great laurel wreaths beyond thirty . 
One is the opportunity to rescue Europe from barbarism , the other is a little barbarian , and the greater of these is Victory . 
