Lord Arthur Savile's Crime and Other Stories by Oscar Wilde Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
It was certainly a wonderful medley of people . 
In fact , it was one of Lady Windermere's best nights , and the Princess stayed till nearly half past eleven . 
She looked wonderfully beautiful with her grand ivory throat , her large blue forget me not eyes , and her heavy coils of golden hair . 
She was a curious psychological study . 
She was now forty years of age , childless , and with that inordinate passion for pleasure which is the secret of remaining young . 
'My cheiromantist , Duchess I can't live without him at present . 
'Dear Gladys ! you are always so original , murmured the Duchess , trying to remember what a cheiromantist really was , and hoping it was not the same as a cheiropodist . 
'He comes to see my hand twice a week regularly , continued Lady Windermere , 'and is most interesting about it . 
'Good heavens ! said the Duchess to herself , 'he is a sort of cheiropodist after all . 
I hope he is a foreigner at any rate . 
It wouldn't be quite so bad then . 
'I must certainly introduce him to you . 
'Of course he is here I would not dream of giving a party without him . 
'Oh , I see ! said the Duchess , feeling very much relieved 'he tells fortunes , I suppose ? 'And misfortunes , too , answered Lady Windermere , 'any amount of them . 
It is all written down on my little finger , or on the palm of my hand , I forget which . 
'But surely that is tempting Providence , Gladys . 
'My dear Duchess , surely Providence can resist temptation by this time . 
I think every one should have their hands told once a month , so as to know what not to do . 
Of course , one does it all the same , but it is so pleasant to be warned . 
Now if some one doesn't go and fetch Mr. Podgers at once , I shall have to go myself . 
'Let me go , Lady Windermere , said a tall handsome young man , who was standing by , listening to the conversation with an amused smile . 
'Thanks so much , Lord Arthur but I am afraid you wouldn't recognise him . 
'If he is as wonderful as you say , Lady Windermere , I couldn't well miss him . 
Tell me what he is like , and I'll bring him to you at once . 
'Well , he is not a bit like a cheiromantist . 
I mean he is not mysterious , or esoteric , or romantic looking . 
He is a little , stout man , with a funny , bald head , and great gold rimmed spectacles something between a family doctor and a country attorney . 
I'm really very sorry , but it is not my fault . 
Ah , here is Mr. Podgers ! Now , Mr. Podgers , I want you to tell the Duchess of Paisley's hand . 
Duchess , you must take your glove off . 
No , not the left hand , the other . 
'Dear Gladys , I really don't think it is quite right , said the Duchess , feebly unbuttoning a rather soiled kid glove . 
'Nothing interesting ever is , said Lady Windermere 'ON A FAIT LE MONDE AINSI . 
But I must introduce you . 
Duchess , this is Mr. Podgers , my pet cheiromantist . 
'I am sure , Gladys , there is nothing of the kind in my hand , said the Duchess gravely . 
'Your Grace is quite right , said Mr. Podgers , glancing at the little fat hand with its short square fingers , 'the mountain of the moon is not developed . 
The line of life , however , is excellent . 
Three distinct lines on the RASCETTE ! You will live to a great age , Duchess , and be extremely happy . 
Ambition very moderate , line of intellect not exaggerated , line of heart 'Now , do be indiscreet , Mr. Podgers , cried Lady Windermere . 
'Pray go on , Mr. Podgers , said the Duchess , looking quite pleased . 
'Economy is not the least of your Grace's virtues , continued Mr. Podgers , and Lady Windermere went off into fits of laughter . 
'Economy is a very good thing , remarked the Duchess complacently 'when I married Paisley he had eleven castles , and not a single house fit to live in . 
'And now he has twelve houses , and not a single castle , cried Lady Windermere . 
'Well , my dear , said the Duchess , 'I like 'Comfort , said Mr. Podgers , 'and modern improvements , and hot water laid on in every bedroom . 
Your Grace is quite right . 
Comfort is the only thing our civilisation can give us . 
'Ah , a pianist ! I see , said Mr. Podgers , 'an excellent pianist , but perhaps hardly a musician . 
Very reserved , very honest , and with a great love of animals . 
'Well , that is just what I do with my house every Thursday evening , cried Lady Windermere , laughing , 'only I like lions better than collie dogs . 
'Your one mistake , Lady Windermere , said Mr. Podgers , with a pompous bow . 
'If a woman can't make her mistakes charming , she is only a female , was the answer . 
'But you must read some more hands for us . 
'An adventurous nature four long voyages in the past , and one to come . 
Been ship wrecked three times . 
No , only twice , but in danger of a shipwreck your next journey . 
A strong Conservative , very punctual , and with a passion for collecting curiosities . 
Had a severe illness between the ages sixteen and eighteen . 
Was left a fortune when about thirty . 
Great aversion to cats and Radicals . 
'Extraordinary ! exclaimed Sir Thomas 'you must really tell my wife's hand , too . 
'Your second wife's , said Mr. Podgers quietly , still keeping Sir Thomas's hand in his . 
'Of course , he won't mind , said Lady Windermere , 'that is what he is here for . 
All my lions , Lord Arthur , are performing lions , and jump through hoops whenever I ask them . 
But I must warn you beforehand that I shall tell Sybil everything . 
Lord Arthur smiled , and shook his head . 
'I am not afraid , he answered . 
'Sybil knows me as well as I know her . 
'Ah ! I am a little sorry to hear you say that . 
The proper basis for marriage is a mutual misunderstanding . 
No , I am not at all cynical , I have merely got experience , which , however , is very much the same thing . 
Mr. Podgers , Lord Arthur Savile is dying to have his hand read . 
Don't tell him that he is engaged to one of the most beautiful girls in London , because that appeared in the MORNING POST a month ago . 
'Dear Lady Windermere , cried the Marchioness of Jedburgh , 'do let Mr. Podgers stay here a little longer . 
He has just told me I should go on the stage , and I am so interested . 
'If he has told you that , Lady Jedburgh , I shall certainly take him away . 
Come over at once , Mr. Podgers , and read Lord Arthur's hand . 
'Of course we are all going to be part of the audience , said Lady Windermere 'and now , Mr. Podgers , be sure and tell us something nice . 
Lord Arthur is one of my special favourites . 
But when Mr. Podgers saw Lord Arthur's hand he grew curiously pale , and said nothing . 
A shudder seemed to pass through him , and his great bushy eyebrows twitched convulsively , in an odd , irritating way they had when he was puzzled . 
Then some huge beads of perspiration broke out on his yellow forehead , like a poisonous dew , and his fat fingers grew cold and clammy . 
Lord Arthur did not fail to notice these strange signs of agitation , and , for the first time in his life , he himself felt fear . 
His impulse was to rush from the room , but he restrained himself . 
It was better to know the worst , whatever it was , than to be left in this hideous uncertainty . 
'I am waiting , Mr. Podgers , he said . 
'We are all waiting , cried Lady Windermere , in her quick , impatient manner , but the cheiromantist made no reply . 
'I believe Arthur is going on the stage , said Lady Jedburgh , 'and that , after your scolding , Mr. Podgers is afraid to tell him so . 
'Of course it is ! answered Lady Windermere , 'but will he be a charming husband ? That is what I want to know . 
'All charming young men are , said Mr. Podgers . 
'I don't think a husband should be too fascinating , murmured Lady Jedburgh pensively , 'it is so dangerous . 
'My dear child , they never are too fascinating , cried Lady Windermere . 
'But what I want are details . 
Details are the only things that interest . 
'Not his sister , I hope ? said Lady Jedburgh , in a piteous tone of voice . 
'Certainly not his sister , answered Mr. Podgers , with a deprecating wave of the hand , 'a distant relative merely . 
'Well , I am dreadfully disappointed , said Lady Windermere . 
'I have absolutely nothing to tell Sybil to morrow . 
No one cares about distant relatives nowadays . 
They went out of fashion years ago . 
However , I suppose she had better have a black silk by her it always does for church , you know . 
And now let us go to supper . 
They are sure to have eaten everything up , but we may find some hot soup . 
Francois used to make excellent soup once , but he is so agitated about politics at present , that I never feel quite certain about him . 
I do wish General Boulanger would keep quiet . 
Duchess , I am sure you are tired ? 'Not at all , dear Gladys , answered the Duchess , waddling towards the door . 
'I have enjoyed myself immensely , and the cheiropodist , I mean the cheiromantist , is most interesting . 
Flora , where can my tortoise shell fan be ? Oh , thank you , Sir Thomas , so much . 
All this time Lord Arthur Savile had remained standing by the fireplace , with the same feeling of dread over him , the same sickening sense of coming evil . 
He thought of Sybil Merton , and the idea that anything could come between them made his eyes dim with tears . 
Looking at him , one would have said that Nemesis had stolen the shield of Pallas , and shown him the Gorgon's head . 
He seemed turned to stone , and his face was like marble in its melancholy . 
They can choose whether they will appear in tragedy or in comedy , whether they will suffer or make merry , laugh or shed tears . 
But in real life it is different . 
Most men and women are forced to perform parts for which they have no qualifications . 
Our Guildensterns play Hamlet for us , and our Hamlets have to jest like Prince Hal . 
The world is a stage , but the play is badly cast . 
Suddenly Mr. Podgers entered the room . 
When he saw Lord Arthur he started , and his coarse , fat face became a sort of greenish yellow colour . 
The two men's eyes met , and for a moment there was silence . 
'The Duchess has left one of her gloves here , Lord Arthur , and has asked me to bring it to her , said Mr. Podgers finally . 
'Ah , I see it on the sofa ! Good evening . 
Podgers , I must insist on your giving me a straightforward answer to a question I am going to put to you . 
'Another time , Lord Arthur , but the Duchess is anxious . 
I am afraid I must go . 
The Duchess is in no hurry . 
'Ladies should not be kept waiting , Lord Arthur , said Mr. Podgers , with his sickly smile . 
'The fair sex is apt to be impatient . 
Lord Arthur's finely chiselled lips curled in petulant disdain . 
The poor Duchess seemed to him of very little importance at that moment . 
He walked across the room to where Mr. Podgers was standing , and held his hand out . 
'Tell me what you saw there , he said . 
I am not a child . 
Mr. Podgers's eyes blinked behind his gold rimmed spectacles , and he moved uneasily from one foot to the other , while his fingers played nervously with a flash watch chain . 
I will give you a cheque for a hundred pounds . 
The green eyes flashed for a moment , and then became dull again . 
'Guineas ? said Mr. Podgers at last , in a low voice . 
I will send you a cheque to morrow . 
What is your club ? 'I have no club . 
That is to say , not just at present . 
SEPTIMUS R. PODGERS PROFESSIONAL CHEIROMANTIST A WEST MOON STREET 'My hours are from ten to four , murmured Mr. Podgers mechanically , 'and I make a reduction for families . 
'Be quick , cried Lord Arthur , looking very pale , and holding his hand out . 
Mr. Podgers glanced nervously round , and drew the heavy PORTIERE across the door . 
'It will take a little time , Lord Arthur , you had better sit down . 
'Be quick , sir , cried Lord Arthur again , stamping his foot angrily on the polished floor . 
Mr. Podgers smiled , drew from his breast pocket a small magnifying glass , and wiped it carefully with his handkerchief 'I am quite ready , he said . 
On and on he went , almost with the gait of a drunken man . 
A policeman looked curiously at him as he passed , and a beggar , who slouched from an archway to ask for alms , grew frightened , seeing misery greater than his own . 
Once he stopped under a lamp , and looked at his hands . 
He thought he could detect the stain of blood already upon them , and a faint cry broke from his trembling lips . 
Murder ! that is what the cheiromantist had seen there . 
Murder ! The very night seemed to know it , and the desolate wind to howl it in his ear . 
The dark corners of the streets were full of it . 
It grinned at him from the roofs of the houses . 
First he came to the Park , whose sombre woodland seemed to fascinate him . 
He leaned wearily up against the railings , cooling his brow against the wet metal , and listening to the tremulous silence of the trees . 
'Murder ! murder ! he kept repeating , as though iteration could dim the horror of the word . 
The sound of his own voice made him shudder , yet he almost hoped that Echo might hear him , and wake the slumbering city from its dreams . 
He felt a mad desire to stop the casual passer by , and tell him everything . 
Then he wandered across Oxford Street into narrow , shameful alleys . 
Two women with painted faces mocked at him as he went by . 
A strange pity came over him . 
How incoherent everything seemed ! How lacking in all harmony ! He was amazed at the discord between the shallow optimism of the day , and the real facts of existence . 
He was still very young . 
After a time he found himself in front of Marylebone Church . 
The silent roadway looked like a long riband of polished silver , flecked here and there by the dark arabesques of waving shadows . 
Far into the distance curved the line of flickering gas lamps , and outside a little walled in house stood a solitary hansom , the driver asleep inside . 
He walked hastily in the direction of Portland Place , now and then looking round , as though he feared that he was being followed . 
At the corner of Rich Street stood two men , reading a small bill upon a hoarding . 
An odd feeling of curiosity stirred him , and he crossed over . 
As he came near , the word 'Murder , printed in black letters , met his eye . 
He started , and a deep flush came into his cheek . 
He read it over and over again , and wondered if the wretched man would be caught , and how he had been scarred . 
Perhaps , some day , his own name might be placarded on the walls of London . 
Some day , perhaps , a price would be set on his head also . 
The thought made him sick with horror . 
He turned on his heel , and hurried on into the night . 
Where he went he hardly knew . 
As he strolled home towards Belgrave Square , he met the great waggons on their way to Covent Garden . 
Lord Arthur felt curiously affected , he could not tell why . 
There was something in the dawn's delicate loveliness that seemed to him inexpressibly pathetic , and he thought of all the days that break in beauty , and that set in storm . 
It gave him pleasure to watch them as they went by . 
Rude as they were , with their heavy , hob nailed shoes , and their awkward gait , they brought a little of a ready with them . 
He felt that they had lived with Nature , and that she had taught them peace . 
He envied them all that they did not know . 
By the time he had reached Belgrave Square the sky was a faint blue , and the birds were beginning to twitter in the gardens . 
CHAPTER III WHEN Lord Arthur woke it was twelve o'clock , and the midday sun was streaming through the ivory silk curtains of his room . 
He got up and looked out of the window . 
A dim haze of heat was hanging over the great city , and the roofs of the houses were like dull silver . 
In the flickering green of the square below some children were flitting about like white butterflies , and the pavement was crowded with people on their way to the Park . 
Never had life seemed lovelier to him , never had the things of evil seemed more remote . 
Then his valet brought him a cup of chocolate on a tray . 
After he had drunk it , he drew aside a heavy PORTIERE of peach coloured plush , and passed into the bathroom . 
The light stole softly from above , through thin slabs of transparent onyx , and the water in the marble tank glimmered like a moonstone . 
When he stepped out he felt almost at peace . 
After breakfast , he flung himself down on a divan , and lit a cigarette . 
On the mantel shelf , framed in dainty old brocade , stood a large photograph of Sybil Merton , as he had seen her first at Lady Noel's ball . 
Yet she was not PETITE . 
She was simply perfectly proportioned a rare thing in an age when so many women are either over life size or insignificant . 
Now as Lord Arthur looked at her , he was filled with the terrible pity that is born of love . 
Of this he was quite resolved . 
This done , he could stand before the altar with Sybil Merton , and give his life into her hands without terror of wrongdoing . 
This done , he could take her to his arms , knowing that she would never have to blush for him , never have to hang her head in shame . 
But done it must be first and the sooner the better for both . 
Many men in his position would have preferred the primrose path of dalliance to the steep heights of duty but Lord Arthur was too conscientious to set pleasure above principle . 
There was more than mere passion in his love and Sybil was to him a symbol of all that is good and noble . 
For a moment he had a natural repugnance against what he was asked to do , but it soon passed away . 
His heart told him that it was not a sin , but a sacrifice his reason reminded him that there was no other course open . 
Sooner or later we are all called upon to decide on the same issue of us all , the same question is asked . 
Fortunately also , for him , he was no mere dreamer , or idle dilettante . 
Had he been so , he would have hesitated , like Hamlet , and let irresolution mar his purpose . 
But he was essentially practical . 
Life to him meant action , rather than thought . 
He had that rarest of all things , common sense . 
The very sincerity of his sufferings made them seem unreal to him now . 
He wondered how he could have been so foolish as to rant and rave about the inevitable . 
He then telephoned to the stables for his hansom , and dressed to go out . 
He had fully decided that poison was the best means to adopt in this troublesome business . 
He had every reason , then , to decide in favour of poison . 
It was safe , sure , and quiet , and did away with any necessity for painful scenes , to which , like most Englishmen , he had a rooted objection . 
It seemed to him to be exactly the poison he wanted . 
He accordingly made a note , upon his shirt cuff , of the amount necessary for a fatal dose , put the books back in their places , and strolled up St . 
James's Street , to Pestle and Humbey's , the great chemists . 
In my day we never dreamed of billing and cooing in public , or in private for that matter . 
'I assure you I have not seen Sybil for twenty four hours , Lady Clem . 
As far as I can make out , she belongs entirely to her milliners . 
'Of course that is the only reason you come to see an ugly old woman like myself . 
I wonder you men don't take warning . 
ON A FAIT DES FOLIES POUR MOI , and here I am , a poor rheumatic creature , with a false front and a bad temper . 
Why , if it were not for dear Lady Jansen , who sends me all the worst French novels she can find , I don't think I could get through the day . 
Doctors are no use at all , except to get fees out of one . 
They can't even cure my heartburn . 
'I have brought you a cure for that , Lady Clem , said Lord Arthur gravely . 
'It is a wonderful thing , invented by an American . 
'I don't think I like American inventions , Arthur . 
I am quite sure I don't . 
I read some American novels lately , and they were quite nonsensical . 
'Oh , but there is no nonsense at all about this , Lady Clem ! I assure you it is a perfect cure . 
You must promise to try it' and Lord Arthur brought the little box out of his pocket , and handed it to her . 
'Well , the box is charming , Arthur . 
Is it really a present ? That is very sweet of you . 
And is this the wonderful medicine ? It looks like a BONBON . 
I'll take it at once . 
'Good heavens ! Lady Clem , cried Lord Arthur , catching hold of her hand , 'you mustn't do anything of the kind . 
It is a homoeopathic medicine , and if you take it without having heartburn , it might do you no end of harm . 
Wait till you have an attack , and take it then . 
You will be astonished at the result . 
'I should like to take it now , said Lady Clementina , holding up to the light the little transparent capsule , with its floating bubble of liquid aconitine . 
I am sure it is delicious . 
The fact is that , though I hate doctors , I love medicines . 
However , I'll keep it till my next attack . 
'And when will that be ? asked Lord Arthur eagerly . 
'Will it be soon ? 'I hope not for a week . 
I had a very bad time yesterday morning with it . 
'You are sure to have one before the end of the month then , Lady Clem ? 'I am afraid so . 
But how sympathetic you are to day , Arthur ! Really , Sybil has done you a great deal of good . 
Good bye , Arthur , give my love to Sybil , and thank you so much for the American medicine . 
'You won't forget to take it , Lady Clem , will you ? said Lord Arthur , rising from his seat . 
'Of course I won't , you silly boy . 
I think it is most kind of you to think of me , and I shall write and tell you if I want any more . 
Lord Arthur left the house in high spirits , and with a feeling of immense relief . 
That night he had an interview with Sybil Merton . 
He told her how he had been suddenly placed in a position of terrible difficulty , from which neither honour nor duty would allow him to recede . 
He told her that the marriage must be put off for the present , as until he had got rid of his fearful entanglements , he was not a free man . 
He implored her to trust him , and not to have any doubts about the future . 
Everything would come right , but patience was necessary . 
The scene took place in the conservatory of Mr. Merton's house , in Park Lane , where Lord Arthur had dined as usual . 
His better nature , however , soon asserted itself , and even when Sybil flung herself weeping into his arms , he did not falter . 
The beauty that stirred his senses had touched his conscience also . 
He felt that to wreck so fair a life for the sake of a few months' pleasure would be a wrong thing to do . 
CHAPTER IV IN Venice he met his brother , Lord Surbiton , who happened to have come over from Corfu in his yacht . 
The two young men spent a delightful fortnight together . 
Yet somehow Lord Arthur was not happy . 
Every day he studied the obituary column in the TIMES , expecting to see a notice of Lady Clementina's death , but every day he was disappointed . 
After a fortnight Lord Surbiton got bored with Venice , and determined to run down the coast to Ravenna , as he heard that there was some capital cock shooting in the Pinetum . 
As he stepped out of his gondola on to the hotel steps , the proprietor came forward to meet him with a sheaf of telegrams . 
Lord Arthur snatched them out of his hand , and tore them open . 
Lady Clementina had died quite suddenly on the night of the th ! His first thought was for Sybil , and he sent her off a telegram announcing his immediate return to London . 
There he found three letters waiting for him . 
One was from Sybil herself , full of sympathy and condolence . 
The others were from his mother , and from Lady Clementina's solicitor . 
In the morning she was found dead in her bed , having apparently suffered no pain . 
Lord Arthur was very much touched by Lady Clementina's kind remembrance of him , and felt that Mr. Podgers had a great deal to answer for . 
His love of Sybil , however , dominated every other emotion , and the consciousness that he had done his duty gave him peace and comfort . 
When he arrived at Charing Cross , he felt perfectly happy . 
The Mertons received him very kindly . 
Sybil made him promise that he would never again allow anything to come between them , and the marriage was fixed for the th June . 
Life seemed to him once more bright and beautiful , and all his old gladness came back to him again . 
'What have you found , Sybil ? said Lord Arthur , looking up from his work , and smiling . 
'This lovely little silver BONBONNIERE , Arthur . 
Isn't it quaint and Dutch ? Do give it to me ! I know amethysts won't become me till I am over eighty . 
It was the box that had held the aconitine . 
Lord Arthur started , and a faint blush came into his cheek . 
'Of course you can have it , Sybil . 
I gave it to poor Lady Clem myself . 
'Oh ! thank you , Arthur and may I have the BONBON too ? I had no notion that Lady Clementina liked sweets . 
I thought she was far too intellectual . 
Lord Arthur grew deadly pale , and a horrible idea crossed his mind . 
'BONBON , Sybil ? What do you mean ? he said in a slow , hoarse voice . 
'There is one in it , that is all . 
It looks quite old and dusty , and I have not the slightest intention of eating it . 
What is the matter , Arthur ? How white you look ! Lord Arthur rushed across the room , and seized the box . 
Inside it was the amber coloured capsule , with its poison bubble . 
Lady Clementina had died a natural death after all ! The shock of the discovery was almost too much for him . 
He flung the capsule into the fire , and sank on the sofa with a cry of despair . 
As for Lord Arthur himself , it took him days to get over his terrible disappointment , and for a time his nerves were completely unstrung . 
His excellent common sense , however , soon asserted itself , and his sound , practical mind did not leave him long in doubt about what to do . 
Poison having proved a complete failure , dynamite , or some other form of explosive , was obviously the proper thing to try . 
He accordingly looked again over the list of his friends and relatives , and , after careful consideration , determined to blow up his uncle , the Dean of Chichester . 
Where to procure an explosive machine was , of course , quite another matter . 
Suddenly he thought of his friend Rouvaloff , a young Russian of very revolutionary tendencies , whom he had met at Lady Windermere's in the winter . 
Lord Arthur felt that he was just the man for his purpose , and drove down one morning to his lodgings in Bloomsbury , to ask his advice and assistance . 
'Scotland Yard would give a good deal to know this address , my dear fellow . 
There he dismissed him , and strolled down Greek Street , till he came to a place called Bayle's Court . 
He walked right to the end , and knocked at a little green house . 
Lord Arthur handed him the paper Count Rouvaloff had given him . 
'Count Rouvaloff has given me an introduction to you , said Lord Arthur , bowing , 'and I am anxious to have a short interview with you on a matter of business . 
My name is Smith , Mr. Robert Smith , and I want you to supply me with an explosive clock . 
'Charmed to meet you , Lord Arthur , said the genial little German , laughing . 
'Don't look so alarmed , it is my duty to know everybody , and I remember seeing you one evening at Lady Windermere's . 
I hope her ladyship is quite well . 
If , however , you want one for home use , I can supply you with an excellent article , and guarantee that you will he satisfied with the result . 
The English detectives are really our best friends , and I have always found that by relying on their stupidity , we can do exactly what we like . 
I could not spare one of them . 
'I assure you , said Lord Arthur , 'that it has nothing to do with the police at all . 
In fact , the clock is intended for the Dean of Chichester . 
'Dear me ! I had no idea that you felt so strongly about religion , Lord Arthur . 
Few young men do nowadays . 
'I am afraid you overrate me , Herr Winckelkopf , said Lord Arthur , blushing . 
'The fact is , I really know nothing about theology . 
'It is a purely private matter then ? 'Purely private . 
Lord Arthur's face brightened up when he saw it . 
'That is just what I want , he cried , 'and now tell me how it goes off . 
Still , I might send it off to morrow . 
'Oh , it will be quite time enough ! said Lord Arthur politely , 'if it is delivered to morrow night or Thursday morning . 
For the moment of the explosion , say Friday at noon exactly . 
The Dean is always at home at that hour . 
'Friday , at noon , repeated Herr Winckelkopf , and he made a note to that effect in a large ledger that was lying on a bureau near the fireplace . 
'And now , said Lord Arthur , rising from his seat , 'pray let me know how much I am in your debt . 
'It is such a small matter , Lord Arthur , that I do not care to make any charge . 
The dynamite comes to seven and sixpence , the clock will be three pounds ten , and the carriage about five shillings . 
I am only too pleased to oblige any friend of Count Rouvaloff's . 
'But your trouble , Herr Winckelkopf ? 'Oh , that is nothing ! It is a pleasure to me . 
I do not work for money I live entirely for my art . 
Lord Arthur laid down pounds , s . 
For the next two days he was in a state of the greatest excitement , and on Friday at twelve o'clock he drove down to the Buckingham to wait for news . 
At four o'clock the evening papers came in , and Lord Arthur disappeared into the library with the PALL MALL , the ST . 
None of the papers , however , contained even the slightest allusion to Chichester , and Lord Arthur felt that the attempt must have failed . 
It was a terrible blow to him , and for a time he was quite unnerved . 
But he had lost all faith in explosives , and Herr Winckelkopf himself acknowledged that everything is so adulterated nowadays , that even dynamite can hardly be got in a pure condition . 
'Jane writes charming letters , said the Duchess 'you must really read her last . 
It is quite as good as the novels Mudie sends us . 
Lord Arthur seized the letter from her hand . 
It ran as follows THE DEANERY , CHICHESTER , TH MAY . 
My Dearest Aunt , Thank you so much for the flannel for the Dorcas Society , and also for the gingham . 
I am sure I don't know what we are coming to . 
As papa has often said in his sermons , we live in an age of unbelief . 
We have had great fun over a clock that an unknown admirer sent papa last Thursday . 
I didn't think it very becoming myself , but papa said it was historical , so I suppose it is all right . 
Do you think Arthur would like one for a wedding present ? I suppose they are quite fashionable in London . 
Papa says they should do a great deal of good , as they show that Liberty can't last , but must fall down . 
Papa says Liberty was invented at the time of the French Revolution . 
How awful it seems ! I have now to go to the Dorcas , where I will read them your most instructive letter . 
How true , dear aunt , your idea is , that in their rank of life they should wear what is unbecoming . 
I must say it is absurd , their anxiety about dress , when there are so many more important things in this world , and in the next . 
I am so glad your flowered poplin turned out so well , and that your lace was not torn . 
I am wearing my yellow satin , that you so kindly gave me , at the Bishop's on Wednesday , and think it will look all right . 
Would you have bows or not ? Jennings says that every one wears bows now , and that the underskirt should be frilled . 
Reggie has just had another explosion , and papa has ordered the clock to be sent to the stables . 
I don't think papa likes it so much as he did at first , though he is very flattered at being sent such a pretty and ingenious toy . 
It shows that people read his sermons , and profit by them . 
Do tell me about the bows . 
Jennings insists they are the fashion . 
Lord Arthur looked so serious and unhappy over the letter , that the Duchess went into fits of laughter . 
'I don't think much of them , said Lord Arthur , with a sad smile , and , after kissing his mother , he left the room . 
When he got upstairs , he flung himself on a sofa , and his eyes filled with tears . 
He had done his best to commit this murder , but on both occasions he had failed , and through no fault of his own . 
He had tried to do his duty , but it seemed as if Destiny herself had turned traitor . 
He was oppressed with the sense of the barrenness of good intentions , of the futility of trying to be fine . 
Perhaps , it would be better to break off the marriage altogether . 
Sybil would suffer , it is true , but suffering could not really mar a nature so noble as hers . 
Let Destiny work out his doom . 
He would not stir to help her . 
At half past seven he dressed , and went down to the club . 
Surbiton was there with a party of young men , and he was obliged to dine with them . 
Their trivial conversation and idle jests did not interest him , and as soon as coffee was brought he left them , inventing some engagement in order to get away . 
As he was going out of the club , the hall porter handed him a letter . 
It was from Herr Winckelkopf , asking him to call down the next evening , and look at an explosive umbrella , that went off as soon as it was opened . 
It was the very latest invention , and had just arrived from Geneva . 
He tore the letter up into fragments . 
He had made up his mind not to try any more experiments . 
Then he wandered down to the Thames Embankment , and sat for hours by the river . 
After some time , twelve o'clock boomed from the tall tower at Westminster , and at each stroke of the sonorous bell the night seemed to tremble . 
Then the railway lights went out , one solitary lamp left gleaming like a large ruby on a giant mast , and the roar of the city became fainter . 
At two o'clock he got up , and strolled towards Blackfriars . 
How unreal everything looked ! How like a strange dream ! The houses on the other side of the river seemed built out of darkness . 
One would have said that silver and shadow had fashioned the world anew . 
The huge dome of St . 
Paul's loomed like a bubble through the dusky air . 
As he approached Cleopatra's Needle he saw a man leaning over the parapet , and as he came nearer the man looked up , the gas light falling full upon his face . 
It was Mr. Podgers , the cheiromantist ! No one could mistake the fat , flabby face , the gold rimmed spectacles , the sickly feeble smile , the sensual mouth . 
A brilliant idea flashed across him , and he stole softly up behind . 
In a moment he had seized Mr. Podgers by the legs , and flung him into the Thames . 
There was a coarse oath , a heavy splash , and all was still . 
Lord Arthur looked anxiously over , but could see nothing of the cheiromantist but a tall hat , pirouetting in an eddy of moonlit water . 
After a time it also sank , and no trace of Mr. Podgers was visible . 
At last he seemed to have realised the decree of destiny . 
He heaved a deep sigh of relief , and Sybil's name came to his lips . 
'Have you dropped anything , sir ? said a voice behind him suddenly . 
He turned round , and saw a policeman with a bull's eye lantern . 
'Nothing of importance , sergeant , he answered , smiling , and hailing a passing hansom , he jumped in , and told the man to drive to Belgrave Square . 
For the next few days he alternated between hope and fear . 
There were moments when he almost expected Mr. Podgers to walk into the room , and yet at other times he felt that Fate could not be so unjust to him . 
Twice he went to the cheiromantist's address in West Moon Street , but he could not bring himself to ring the bell . 
He longed for certainty , and was afraid of it . 
He took up the ST . 
JAMES'S , and was listlessly turning over its pages , when this strange heading caught his eye SUICIDE OF A CHEIROMANTIST . 
He turned pale with excitement , and began to read . 
The unfortunate gentleman had been missing for some days , and considerable anxiety for his safety had been felt in cheiromantic circles . 
Mr. Podgers had just completed an elaborate treatise on the subject of the Human Hand , that will shortly be published , when it will no doubt attract much attention . 
The deceased was sixty five years of age , and does not seem to have left any relations . 
Sybil saw him from the window , and something told her that he was the bearer of good news . 
She ran down to meet him , and , when she saw his face , she knew that all was well . 
CHAPTER VI WHEN the wedding took place , some three weeks later , St . 
Peter's was crowded with a perfect mob of smart people . 
The service was read in the most impressive manner by the Dean of Chichester , and everybody agreed that they had never seen a handsomer couple than the bride and bridegroom . 
They were more than handsome , however they were happy . 
For them romance was not killed by reality . 
Aren't you ? 'I have no time to be happy , Sybil . 
I always like the last person who is introduced to me but , as a rule , as soon as I know people I get tired of them . 
'Don't your lions satisfy you , Lady Windermere ? 'Oh dear , no ! lions are only good for one season . 
As soon as their manes are cut , they are the dullest creatures going . 
Besides , they behave very badly , if you are really nice to them . 
Do you remember that horrid Mr. Podgers ? He was a dreadful impostor . 
Of course , I didn't mind that at all , and even when he wanted to borrow money I forgave him , but I could not stand his making love to me . 
He has really made me hate cheiromancy . 
I go in for telepathy now . 
It is much more amusing . 
'You mustn't say anything against cheiromancy here , Lady Windermere it is the only subject that Arthur does not like people to chaff about . 
I assure you he is quite serious over it . 
'Lord Arthur ? 'Yes , Lady Windermere . 
'You don't mean to say that you believe in cheiromancy ? 'Of course I do , said the young man , smiling . 
'But why ? 'Because I owe to it all the happiness of my life , he murmured , throwing himself into a wicker chair . 
'My dear Lord Arthur , what do you owe to it ? 'Sybil , he answered , handing his wife the roses , and looking into her violet eyes . 
'What nonsense ! cried Lady Windermere . 
'I never heard such nonsense in all my life . 
Augustus Dampier , who is a Fellow of King's College , Cambridge . 
'My Lord , answered the Minister , 'I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation . 
'I fear that the ghost exists , said Lord Canterville , smiling , 'though it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios . 
It has been well known for three centuries , since in fact , and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family . 
'Well , so does the family doctor for that matter , Lord Canterville . 
But there is no such thing , sir , as a ghost , and I guess the laws of Nature are not going to be suspended for the British aristocracy . 
Only you must remember I warned you . 
A few weeks after this , the purchase was completed , and at the close of the season the Minister and his family went down to Canterville Chase . 
She had a magnificent constitution , and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits . 
Gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses . 
Otherwise he was extremely sensible . 
Miss Virginia E. Otis was a little girl of fifteen , lithe and lovely as a fawn , and with a fine freedom in her large blue eyes . 
After Virginia came the twins , who were usually called 'The Stars and Stripes , as they were always getting swished . 
They were delightful boys , and with the exception of the worthy Minister the only true republicans of the family . 
It was a lovely July evening , and the air was delicate with the scent of the pine woods . 
Now and then they heard a wood pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice , or saw , deep in the rustling fern , the burnished breast of the pheasant . 
Standing on the steps to receive them was an old woman , neatly dressed in black silk , with a white cap and apron . 
This was Mrs. Umney , the housekeeper , whom Mrs. Otis , at Lady Canterville's earnest request , had consented to keep on in her former position . 
She made them each a low curtsey as they alighted , and said in a quaint , old fashioned manner , 'I bid you welcome to Canterville Chase . 
Here they found tea laid out for them , and , after taking off their wraps , they sat down and began to look round , while Mrs. Umney waited on them . 
'Yes , madam , replied the old housekeeper in a low voice , 'blood has been spilt on that spot . 
'How horrid , cried Mrs. Otis 'I don't at all care for blood stains in a sitting room . 
It must be removed at once . 
Sir Simon survived her nine years , and disappeared suddenly under very mysterious circumstances . 
His body has never been discovered , but his guilty spirit still haunts the Chase . 
The blood stain has been much admired by tourists and others , and cannot be removed . 
In a few moments no trace of the blood stain could be seen . 
'What a monstrous climate ! said the American Minister calmly , as he lit a long cheroot . 
'I guess the old country is so overpopulated that they have not enough decent weather for everybody . 
I have always been of opinion that emigration is the only thing for England . 
There was no doubt , however , that she was extremely upset , and she sternly warned Mr. Otis to beware of some trouble coming to the house . 
CHAPTER II THE storm raged fiercely all that night , but nothing of particular note occurred . 
The next morning , however , when they came down to breakfast , they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor . 
'I don't think it can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent , said Washington , 'for I have tried it with everything . 
It must be the ghost . 
He accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time , but the second morning it appeared again . 
The third morning also it was there , though the library had been locked up at night by Mr. Otis himself , and the key carried upstairs . 
Myers and Podmore on the subject of the Permanence of Sanguineous Stains when connected with Crime . 
That night all doubts about the objective existence of phantasmata were removed for ever . 
The day had been warm and sunny and , in the cool of the evening , the whole family went out for a drive . 
They did not return home till nine o'clock , when they had a light supper . 
The conversation in no way turned upon ghosts , so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive expectation which so often precede the presentation of psychical phenomena . 
No mention at all was made of the supernatural , nor was Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way . 
At eleven o'clock the family retired , and by half past all the lights were out . 
Some time after , Mr. Otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor , outside his room . 
It sounded like the clank of metal , and seemed to be coming nearer every moment . 
He got up at once , struck a match , and looked at the time . 
It was exactly one o'clock . 
He was quite calm , and felt his pulse , which was not at all feverish . 
The strange noise still continued , and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps . 
He put on his slippers , took a small oblong phial out of his dressing case , and opened the door . 
Right in front of him he saw , in the wan moonlight , an old man of terrible aspect . 
It is said to be completely efficacious upon one application , and there are several testimonials to that effect on the wrapper from some of our most eminent native divines . 
I shall leave it here for you by the bedroom candles , and will be happy to supply you with more should you require it . 
With these words the United States Minister laid the bottle down on a marble table , and , closing his door , retired to rest . 
On reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing , he leaned up against a moonbeam to recover his breath , and began to try and realise his position . 
Never , in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three hundred years , had he been so grossly insulted . 
And after all this , some wretched modern Americans were to come and offer him the Rising Sun Lubricator , and throw pillows at his head ! It was quite unbearable . 
Besides , no ghosts in history had ever been treated in this manner . 
Accordingly , he determined to have vengeance , and remained till daylight in an attitude of deep thought . 
CHAPTER III THE next morning when the Otis family met at breakfast , they discussed the ghost at some length . 
The United States Minister was naturally a little annoyed to find that his present had not been accepted . 
'Upon the other hand , he continued , 'if he really declines to use the Rising Sun Lubricator , we shall have to take his chains from him . 
It would be quite impossible to sleep , with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms . 
For the rest of the week , however , they were undisturbed , the only thing that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the blood stain on the library floor . 
This certainly was very strange , as the door was always locked at night by Mr. Otis , and the windows kept closely barred . 
The chameleon like colour , also , of the stain excited a good deal of comment . 
These kaleidoscopic changes naturally amused the party very much , and bets on the subject were freely made every evening . 
The second appearance of the ghost was on Sunday night . 
Shortly after they had gone to bed they were suddenly alarmed by a fearful crash in the hall . 
On reaching the top of the staircase he recovered himself , and determined to give his celebrated peal of demoniac laughter . 
This he had on more than one occasion found extremely useful . 
It was said to have turned Lord Raker's wig grey in a single night , and had certainly made three of Lady Canterville's French governesses give warning before their month was up . 
'I am afraid you are far from well , she said , 'and have brought you a bottle of Dr . 
If it is indigestion , you will find it a most excellent remedy . 
On reaching his room he entirely broke down , and became a prey to the most violent agitation . 
Besides , it was his own suit . 
He had worn it with great success at the Kenilworth tournament , and had been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the Virgin Queen herself . 
For some days after this he was extremely ill , and hardly stirred out of his room at all , except to keep the blood stain in proper repair . 
However , by taking great care of himself , he recovered , and resolved to make a third attempt to frighten the United States Minister and his family . 
Towards evening a violent storm of rain came on , and the wind was so high that all the windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled . 
In fact , it was just such weather as he loved . 
His plan of action was this . 
He bore Washington a special grudge , being quite aware that it was he who was in the habit of removing the famous Canterville blood stain , by means of Pinkerton's Paragon Detergent . 
With regard to little Virginia , he had not quite made up his mind . 
She had never insulted him in any way , and was pretty and gentle . 
As for the twins , he was quite determined to teach them a lesson . 
The first thing to be done was , of course , to sit upon their chests , so as to produce the stifling sensation of nightmare . 
At half past ten he heard the family going to bed . 
On and on he glided , like an evil shadow , the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed . 
Finally he reached the corner of the passage that led to luckless Washington's room . 
For a moment he paused there , the wind blowing his long grey locks about his head , and twisting into grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man's shroud . 
Then the clock struck the quarter , and he felt the time was come . 
Once in the privacy of his own apartment , he flung himself down on a small pallet bed , and hid his face under the clothes . 
After a time , however , the brave old Canterville spirit asserted itself , and he determined to go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight . 
On reaching the spot , however , a terrible sight met his gaze . 
The whole thing flashed across him . 
Hardly had he finished this awful oath when , from the red tiled roof of a distant homestead , a cock crew . 
He laughed a long , low , bitter laugh , and waited . 
Hour after hour he waited , but the cock , for some strange reason , did not crow again . 
CHAPTER IV THE next day the ghost was very weak and tired . 
The terrible excitement of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect . 
His nerves were completely shattered , and he started at the slightest noise . 
For five days he kept his room , and at last made up his mind to give up the point of the blood stain on the library floor . 
If the Otis family did not want it , they clearly did not deserve it . 
They were evidently people on a low , material plane of existence , and quite incapable of appreciating the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena . 
The question of phantasmic apparitions , and the development of astral bodies , was of course quite a different matter , and really not under his control . 
It is quite true that his life had been very evil , but , upon the other hand , he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural . 
For the next three Saturdays , accordingly , he traversed the corridor as usual between midnight and three o'clock , taking every possible precaution against being either heard or seen . 
I am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection . 
However , one night , while the family were at dinner , he slipped into Mr. Otis's bedroom and carried off the bottle . 
Still , in spite of everything , he was not left unmolested . 
At last everything was ready , and he was very pleased with his appearance . 
At the same moment he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four post bed . 
The final blow he received occurred on the th of September . 
It was about a quarter past two o'clock in the morning , and , as far as he could ascertain , no one was stirring . 
After this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition . 
It was quite evident that his feelings were so wounded that he would not appear . 
His head was leaning on his hand , and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression . 
So light was her footfall , and so deep his melancholy , that he was not aware of her presence till she spoke to him . 
'It is absurd asking me to behave myself , he answered , looking round in astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him , 'quite absurd . 
I must rattle my chains , and groan through keyholes , and walk about at night , if that is what you mean . 
It is my only reason for existing . 
'It is no reason at all for existing , and you know you have been very wicked . 
Mrs. Umney told us , the first day we arrived here , that you had killed your wife . 
'Well , I quite admit it , said the Ghost petulantly , 'but it was a purely family matter , and concerned no one else . 
'It is very wrong to kill any one , said Virginia , who at times had a sweet Puritan gravity , caught from some old New England ancestor . 
'Oh , I hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics ! My wife was very plain , never had my ruffs properly starched , and knew nothing about cookery . 
'Starve you to death ? Oh , Mr. Ghost , I mean Sir Simon , are you hungry ? I have a sandwich in my case . 
'You know nothing about it , and the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind . 
Once in New York , you are sure to be a great success . 
I know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather , and much more than that to have a family Ghost . 
'I don't think I should like America . 
'I suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities , said Virginia satirically . 
'No ruins ! no curiosities ! answered the Ghost 'you have your navy and your manners . 
'Good evening I will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week's holiday . 
'Please don't go , Miss Virginia , he cried 'I am so lonely and so unhappy , and I really don't know what to do . 
I want to go to sleep and I cannot . 
'That's quite absurd ! You have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle . 
It is very difficult sometimes to keep awake , especially at church , but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping . 
Why , even babies know how to do that , and they are not very clever . 
Virginia grew quite grave , and her little lips trembled like rose leaves . 
She came towards him , and kneeling down at his side , looked up into his old withered face . 
There the grass grows long and deep , there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower , there the nightingale sings all night long . 
All night long he sings , and the cold , crystal moon looks down , and the yew tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers . 
Virginia's eyes grew dim with tears , and she hid her face in her hands . 
'You mean the Garden of Death , she whispered . 
Death must be so beautiful . 
To lie in the soft brown earth , with the grasses waving above one's head , and listen to silence . 
To have no yesterday , and no to morrow . 
To forget time , to forgive life , to be at peace . 
You can open for me the portals of Death's house , for Love is always with you , and Love is stronger than Death is . 
Virginia trembled , a cold shudder ran through her , and for a few moments there was silence . 
She felt as if she was in a terrible dream . 
Then the Ghost spoke again , and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind . 
'Have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window ? 'Oh , often , cried the little girl , looking up 'I know it quite well . 
It is painted in curious black letters , and it is difficult to read . 
But I don't know what they mean . 
Virginia made no answer , and the Ghost wrung his hands in wild despair as he looked down at her bowed golden head . 
Suddenly she stood up , very pale , and with a strange light in her eyes . 
'I am not afraid , she said firmly , 'and I will ask the Angel to have mercy on you . 
He rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy , and taking her hand bent over it with old fashioned grace and kissed it . 
His fingers were as cold as ice , and his lips burned like fire , but Virginia did not falter , as he led her across the dusky room . 
On the faded green tapestry were broidered little huntsmen . 
They blew their tasselled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go back . 
'Go back ! little Virginia , they cried , 'go back ! but the Ghost clutched her hand more tightly , and she shut her eyes against them . 
When they reached the end of the room he stopped , and muttered some words she could not understand . 
She opened her eyes , and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist , and a great black cavern in front of her . 
A bitter cold wind swept round them , and she felt something pulling at her dress . 
CHAPTER VI ABOUT ten minutes later , the bell rang for tea , and , as Virginia did not come down , Mrs. Otis sent up one of the footmen to tell her . 
After a little time he returned and said that he could not find Miss Virginia anywhere . 
At half past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere . 
He accordingly at once set off for Blackfell Hollow , where he knew they were , accompanied by his eldest son and two of the farm servants . 
'I'm awfully sorry , Mr. Otis , gasped out the boy , 'but I can't eat any dinner as long as Virginia is lost . 
Please , don't be angry with me if you had let us be engaged last year , there would never have been all this trouble . 
'Oh , bother my hat ! I want Virginia ! cried the little Duke , laughing , and they galloped on to the railway station . 
There Mr. Otis inquired of the station master if any one answering the description of Virginia had been seen on the platform , but could get no news of her . 
They found Washington and the twins waiting for them at the gate house with lanterns , as the avenue was very dark . 
Not the slightest trace of Virginia had been discovered . 
The carp pond had been dragged , and the whole Chase thoroughly gone over , but without any result . 
Mr. Otis at once insisted on her having something to eat , and ordered up supper for the whole party . 
It was a melancholy meal , as hardly any one spoke , and even the twins were awestruck and subdued , as they were very fond of their sister . 
In a moment they had all rushed up to her . 
Mrs. Otis clasped her passionately in her arms , the Duke smothered her with violent kisses , and the twins executed a wild war dance round the group . 
'Good heavens ! child , where have you been ? said Mr. Otis , rather angrily , thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them . 
'Cecil and I have been riding all over the country looking for you , and your mother has been frightened to death . 
You must never play these practical jokes any more . 
'Except on the Ghost ! except on the Ghost ! shrieked the twins , as they capered about . 
'Papa , said Virginia quietly , 'I have been with the Ghost . 
He is dead , and you must come and see him . 
He had been very wicked , but he was really sorry for all that he had done , and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died . 
Finally , they came to a great oak door , studded with rusty nails . 
When Virginia touched it , it swung back on its heavy hinges , and they found themselves in a little low room , with a vaulted ceiling , and one tiny grated window . 
The jug had evidently been once filled with water , as it was covered inside with green mould . 
There was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust . 
'Hallo ! suddenly exclaimed one of the twins , who had been looking out of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated . 
'Hallo ! the old withered almond tree has blossomed . 
I can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight . 
'God has forgiven him , said Virginia gravely , as she rose to her feet , and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face . 
'What an angel you are ! cried the young Duke , and he put his arm round her neck and kissed her . 
CHAPTER VII FOUR days after these curious incidents a funeral started from Canterville Chase at about eleven o'clock at night . 
By the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches , and the whole procession was wonderfully impressive . 
Lord Canterville was the chief mourner , having come up specially from Wales to attend the funeral , and sat in the first carriage along with little Virginia . 
Then came the United States Minister and his wife , then Washington and the three boys , and in the last carriage was Mrs. Umney . 
It was generally felt that , as she had been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life , she had a right to see the last of him . 
A deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard , just under the old yew tree , and the service was read in the most impressive manner by the Rev . 
She thought of the ghost's description of the Garden of Death , her eyes became dim with tears , and she hardly spoke a word during the drive home . 
The next morning , before Lord Canterville went up to town , Mr. Otis had an interview with him on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to Virginia . 
As for my daughter , she is merely a child , and has as yet , I am glad to say , but little interest in such appurtenances of idle luxury . 
Perhaps I should mention that Virginia is very anxious that you should allow her to retain the box as a memento of your unfortunate but misguided ancestor . 
As it is extremely old , and consequently a good deal out of repair , you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request . 
As for their being heirlooms , nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or legal document , and the existence of these jewels has been quite unknown . 
I assure you I have no more claim on them than your butler , and when Miss Virginia grows up I daresay she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear . 
For Virginia received the coronet , which is the reward of all good little American girls , and was married to her boy lover as soon as he came of age . 
His objections , however , were completely overruled , and I believe that when he walked up the aisle of St . 
George's , Hanover Square , with his daughter leaning on his arm , there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of England . 
There the Duchess sat down on a fallen pillar , while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes . 
Suddenly he threw his cigarette away , took hold of her hand , and said to her , 'Virginia , a wife should have no secrets from her husband . 
'Dear Cecil ! I have no secrets from you . 
'Yes , you have , he answered , smiling , 'you have never told me what happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost . 
'I have never told any one , Cecil , said Virginia gravely . 
'I know that , but you might tell me . 
'Please don't ask me , Cecil , I cannot tell you . 
Poor Sir Simon ! I owe him a great deal . 
Yes , don't laugh , Cecil , I really do . 
He made me see what Life is , and what Death signifies , and why Love is stronger than both . 
The Duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly . 
'You can have your secret as long as I have your heart , he murmured . 
'You have always had that , Cecil . 
'And you will tell our children some day , won't you ? Virginia blushed . 
I turned round , and saw Lord Murchison . 
We had not met since we had been at college together , nearly ten years before , so I was delighted to come across him again , and we shook hands warmly . 
At Oxford we had been great friends . 
I had liked him immensely , he was so handsome , so high spirited , and so honourable . 
I found him a good deal changed . 
He looked anxious and puzzled , and seemed to be in doubt about something . 
'I don't understand women well enough , he answered . 
'My dear Gerald , I said , 'women are meant to be loved , not to be understood . 
'I cannot love where I cannot trust , he replied . 
'I believe you have a mystery in your life , Gerald , I exclaimed 'tell me about it . 
'Let us go for a drive , he answered , 'it is too crowded here . 
'Where shall we go to ? I said . 
'Oh , anywhere you like ! he answered 'to the restaurant in the Bois we will dine there , and you shall tell me all about yourself . 
'I want to hear about you first , I said . 
He took from his pocket a little silver clasped morocco case , and handed it to me . 
Inside there was the photograph of a woman . 
She was tall and slight , and strangely picturesque with her large vague eyes and loosened hair . 
She looked like a CLAIRVOYANTE , and was wrapped in rich furs . 
'What do you think of that face ? he said 'is it truthful ? I examined it carefully . 
It seemed to me the face of some one who had a secret , but whether that secret was good or evil I could not say . 
'Well , he cried impatiently , 'what do you say ? 'She is the Gioconda in sables , I answered . 
'Let me know all about her . 
'Not now , he said 'after dinner , and began to talk of other things . 
When the waiter brought us our coffee and cigarettes I reminded Gerald of his promise . 
There was a terrific crush of carriages , and the traffic was almost stopped . 
Close to the pavement was standing a little yellow brougham , which , for some reason or other , attracted my attention . 
As I passed by there looked out from it the face I showed you this afternoon . 
All that night I kept thinking of it , and all the next day . 
About a week afterwards I was dining with Madame de Rastail . 
Dinner was for eight o'clock but at half past eight we were still waiting in the drawing room . 
Finally the servant threw open the door , and announced Lady Alroy . 
It was the woman I had been looking for . 
She came in very slowly , looking like a moonbeam in grey lace , and , to my intense delight , I was asked to take her in to dinner . 
After we had sat down , I remarked quite innocently , I think I caught sight of you in Bond Street some time ago , Lady Alroy . 
She grew very pale , and said to me in a low voice , Pray do not talk so loud you may be overheard . 
I felt miserable at having made such a bad beginning , and plunged recklessly into the subject of the French plays . 
She spoke very little , always in the same low musical voice , and seemed as if she was afraid of some one listening . 
I fell passionately , stupidly in love , and the indefinable atmosphere of mystery that surrounded her excited my most ardent curiosity . 
When she was going away , which she did very soon after dinner , I asked her if I might call and see her . 
She hesitated for a moment , glanced round to see if any one was near us , and then said , Yes to morrow at a quarter to five . 
'The next day I arrived at Park Lane punctual to the moment , but was told by the butler that Lady Alroy had just gone out . 
There are reasons , she said , why I cannot receive letters in my own house . 
'All through the season I saw a great deal of her , and the atmosphere of mystery never left her . 
Sometimes I thought that she was in the power of some man , but she looked so unapproachable , that I could not believe it . 
I wrote to her at the library to ask her if she could see me the following Monday at six . 
She answered yes , and I was in the seventh heaven of delight . 
I was infatuated with her in spite of the mystery , I thought then in consequence of it , I see now . 
No it was the woman herself I loved . 
The mystery troubled me , maddened me . 
Why did chance put me in its track ? 'You discovered it , then ? I cried . 
'I fear so , he answered . 
'You can judge for yourself . 
'When Monday came round I went to lunch with my uncle , and about four o'clock found myself in the Marylebone Road . 
My uncle , you know , lives in Regent's Park . 
I wanted to get to Piccadilly , and took a short cut through a lot of shabby little streets . 
Suddenly I saw in front of me Lady Alroy , deeply veiled and walking very fast . 
On coming to the last house in the street , she went up the steps , took out a latch key , and let herself in . 
Here is the mystery , I said to myself and I hurried on and examined the house . 
It seemed a sort of place for letting lodgings . 
On the doorstep lay her handkerchief , which she had dropped . 
I picked it up and put it in my pocket . 
Then I began to consider what I should do . 
I came to the conclusion that I had no right to spy on her , and I drove down to the club . 
At six I called to see her . 
She was lying on a sofa , in a tea gown of silver tissue looped up by some strange moonstones that she always wore . 
She was looking quite lovely . 
I am so glad to see you , she said I have not been out all day . 
I stared at her in amazement , and pulling the handkerchief out of my pocket , handed it to her . 
You dropped this in Cumnor Street this afternoon , Lady Alroy , I said very calmly . 
She looked at me in terror but made no attempt to take the handkerchief . 
What were you doing there ? I asked . 
What right have you to question me ? she answered . 
The right of a man who loves you , I replied I came here to ask you to be my wife . 
She hid her face in her hands , and burst into floods of tears . 
You must tell me , I continued . 
She stood up , and , looking me straight in the face , said , Lord Murchison , there is nothing to tell you . 
You went to meet some one , I cried this is your mystery . 
She grew dreadfully white , and said , I went to meet no one . 
Can't you tell the truth ? I exclaimed . 
I have told it , she replied . 
I was mad , frantic I don't know what I said , but I said terrible things to her . 
Finally I rushed out of the house . 
She wrote me a letter the next day I sent it back unopened , and started for Norway with Alan Colville . 
After a month I came back , and the first thing I saw in the MORNING POST was the death of Lady Alroy . 
She had caught a chill at the Opera , and had died in five days of congestion of the lungs . 
I shut myself up and saw no one . 
I had loved her so much , I had loved her so madly . 
Good God ! how I had loved that woman ! 'You went to the street , to the house in it ? I said . 
'One day I went to Cumnor Street . 
I could not help it I was tortured with doubt . 
I knocked at the door , and a respectable looking woman opened it to me . 
I asked her if she had any rooms to let . 
Is this the lady ? I said , showing the photograph . 
That's her , sure enough , she exclaimed and when is she coming back , sir ? The lady is dead , I replied . 
Oh sir , I hope not ! said the woman she was my best lodger . 
She paid me three guineas a week merely to sit in my drawing rooms now and then . 
She met some one here ? I said but the woman assured me that it was not so , that she always came alone , and saw no one . 
What on earth did she do here ? I cried . 
She simply sat in the drawing room , sir , reading books , and sometimes had tea , the woman answered . 
I did not know what to say , so I gave her a sovereign and went away . 
Now , what do you think it all meant ? You don't believe the woman was telling the truth ? 'I do . 
'Then why did Lady Alroy go there ? 'My dear Gerald , I answered , 'Lady Alroy was simply a woman with a mania for mystery . 
She took these rooms for the pleasure of going there with her veil down , and imagining she was a heroine . 
She had a passion for secrecy , but she herself was merely a Sphinx without a secret . 
'Do you really think so ? 'I am sure of it , I replied . 
He took out the morocco case , opened it , and looked at the photograph . 
'I wonder ? he said at last . 
THE MODEL MILLIONAIRE UNLESS one is wealthy there is no use in being a charming fellow . 
Romance is the privilege of the rich , not the profession of the unemployed . 
The poor should be practical and prosaic . 
It is better to have a permanent income than to be fascinating . 
These are the great truths of modern life which Hughie Erskine never realised . 
Poor Hughie ! Intellectually , we must admit , he was not of much importance . 
He never said a brilliant or even an ill natured thing in his life . 
But then he was wonderfully good looking , with his crisp brown hair , his clear cut profile , and his grey eyes . 
He was as popular with men as he was with women and he had every accomplishment except that of making money . 
His father had bequeathed him his cavalry sword and a HISTORY OF THE PENINSULAR WAR in fifteen volumes . 
Then he had tried selling dry sherry . 
That did not answer the sherry was a little too dry . 
Ultimately he became nothing , a delightful , ineffectual young man with a perfect profile and no profession . 
To make matters worse , he was in love . 
The girl he loved was Laura Merton , the daughter of a retired Colonel who had lost his temper and his digestion in India , and had never found either of them again . 
Laura adored him , and he was ready to kiss her shoe strings . 
They were the handsomest couple in London , and had not a penny piece between them . 
The Colonel was very fond of Hughie , but would not hear of any engagement . 
One morning , as he was on his way to Holland Park , where the Mertons lived , he dropped in to see a great friend of his , Alan Trevor . 
Indeed , few people escape that nowadays . 
But he was also an artist , and artists are rather rare . 
Personally he was a strange rough fellow , with a freckled face and a red ragged beard . 
However , when he took up the brush he was a real master , and his pictures were eagerly sought after . 
He had been very much attracted by Hughie at first , it must be acknowledged , entirely on account of his personal charm . 
Men who are dandies and women who are darlings rule the world , at least they should do so . 
When Hughie came in he found Trevor putting the finishing touches to a wonderful life size picture of a beggar man . 
The beggar himself was standing on a raised platform in a corner of the studio . 
He was a wizened old man , with a face like wrinkled parchment , and a most piteous expression . 
'What an amazing model ! whispered Hughie , as he shook hands with his friend . 
'An amazing model ? shouted Trevor at the top of his voice 'I should think so ! Such beggars as he are not to be met with every day . 
'And how much do you get for your picture , Alan ? 'Oh , for this I get two thousand ! 'Pounds ? 'Guineas . 
Painters , poets , and physicians always get guineas . 
'Well , I think the model should have a percentage , cried Hughie , laughing 'they work quite as hard as you do . 
But you mustn't chatter I'm very busy . 
Smoke a cigarette , and keep quiet . 
After some time the servant came in , and told Trevor that the framemaker wanted to speak to him . 
'Don't run away , Hughie , he said , as he went out , 'I will be back in a moment . 
The old beggar man took advantage of Trevor's absence to rest for a moment on a wooden bench that was behind him . 
He looked so forlorn and wretched that Hughie could not help pitying him , and felt in his pockets to see what money he had . 
All he could find was a sovereign and some coppers . 
The old man started , and a faint smile flitted across his withered lips . 
'Thank you , sir , he said , 'thank you . 
Then Trevor arrived , and Hughie took his leave , blushing a little at what he had done . 
He spent the day with Laura , got a charming scolding for his extravagance , and had to walk home . 
That night he strolled into the Palette Club about eleven o'clock , and found Trevor sitting by himself in the smoking room drinking hock and seltzer . 
'Well , Alan , did you get the picture finished all right ? he said , as he lit his cigarette . 
'Finished and framed , my boy ! answered Trevor 'and , by the bye , you have made a conquest . 
That old model you saw is quite devoted to you . 
But of course you are only joking . 
Poor old wretch ! I wish I could do something for him . 
I think it is dreadful that any one should be so miserable . 
I have got heaps of old clothes at home do you think he would care for any of them ? Why , his rags were falling to bits . 
'But he looks splendid in them , said Trevor . 
'I wouldn't paint him in a frock coat for anything . 
What you call rags I call romance . 
What seems poverty to you is picturesqueness to me . 
However , I'll tell him of your offer . 
'Alan , said Hughie seriously , 'you painters are a heartless lot . 
'An artist's heart is his head , replied Trevor 'and besides , our business is to realise the world as we see it , not to reform it as we know it . 
And now tell me how Laura is . 
The old model was quite interested in her . 
'You don't mean to say you talked to him about her ? said Hughie . 
He knows all about the relentless colonel , the lovely Laura , and the , pounds . 
'You told that old beggar all my private affairs ? cried Hughie , looking very red and angry . 
'My dear boy , said Trevor , smiling , 'that old beggar , as you call him , is one of the richest men in Europe . 
He could buy all London to morrow without overdrawing his account . 
He has a house in every capital , dines off gold plate , and can prevent Russia going to war when he chooses . 
'What on earth do you mean ? exclaimed Hughie . 
'What I say , said Trevor . 
'The old man you saw to day in the studio was Baron Hausberg . 
He is a great friend of mine , buys all my pictures and that sort of thing , and gave me a commission a month ago to paint him as a beggar . 
'Baron Hausberg ! cried Hughie . 
'Good heavens ! I gave him a sovereign ! and he sank into an armchair the picture of dismay . 
'Gave him a sovereign ! shouted Trevor , and he burst into a roar of laughter . 
'My dear boy , you'll never see it again . 
SON AFFAIRE C'EST L'ARGENT DES AUTRES . 
'I think you might have told me , Alan , said Hughie sulkily , 'and not have let me make such a fool of myself . 
'Well , to begin with , Hughie , said Trevor , 'it never entered my mind that you went about distributing alms in that reckless way . 
You know he wasn't in full dress . 
'What a duffer he must think me ! said Hughie . 
He was in the highest spirits after you left kept chuckling to himself and rubbing his old wrinkled hands together . 
I couldn't make out why he was so interested to know all about you but I see it all now . 
He'll invest your sovereign for you , Hughie , pay you the interest every six months , and have a capital story to tell after dinner . 
'I am an unlucky devil , growled Hughie . 
'The best thing I can do is to go to bed and , my dear Alan , you mustn't tell any one . 
I shouldn't dare show my face in the Row . 
'Nonsense ! It reflects the highest credit on your philanthropic spirit , Hughie . 
Have another cigarette , and you can talk about Laura as much as you like . 
However , Hughie wouldn't stop , but walked home , feeling very unhappy , and leaving Alan Trevor in fits of laughter . 
'I suppose he has come for an apology , said Hughie to himself and he told the servant to show the visitor up . 
'I have come from Baron Hausberg , he continued . 
'The Baron 'I beg , sir , that you will offer him my sincerest apologies , stammered Hughie . 
'The Baron , said the old gentleman with a smile , 'has commissioned me to bring you this letter' and he extended a sealed envelope . 
On the outside was written , 'A wedding present to Hugh Erskine and Laura Merton , from an old beggar , and inside was a cheque for , pounds . 
When they were married Alan Trevor was the best man , and the Baron made a speech at the wedding breakfast . 
'Millionaire models , remarked Alan , 'are rare enough but , by Jove , model millionaires are rarer still ! THE PORTRAIT OF MR . 
Erskine remained silent for a few moments , looking at the thin grey threads of smoke that were rising from his cigarette . 
'Yes , he said , after a pause , 'quite different . 
There was something in the tone of his voice , a slight touch of bitterness perhaps , that excited my curiosity . 
'Did you ever know anybody who did that ? I cried . 
'Yes , he answered , throwing his cigarette into the fire , 'a great friend of mine , Cyril Graham . 
He was very fascinating , and very foolish , and very heartless . 
However , he left me the only legacy I ever received in my life . 
'What was that ? I exclaimed . 
It was a full length portrait of a young man in late sixteenth century costume , standing by a table , with his right hand resting on an open book . 
He seemed about seventeen years of age , and was of quite extraordinary personal beauty , though evidently somewhat effeminate . 
In manner , and especially in the treatment of the hands , the picture reminded one of Francois Clouet's later work . 
It might have been a chance effect of light , but it seemed to me that his eyes were quite bright with tears . 
W. H. ! I exclaimed 'who was Mr. W. H. ? 'Don't you remember ? he answered 'look at the book on which his hand is resting . 
'I see there is some writing there , but I cannot make it out , I replied . 
'Take this magnifying glass and try , said Erskine , with the same sad smile still playing about his mouth . 
I took the glass , and moving the lamp a little nearer , I began to spell out the crabbed sixteenth century handwriting . 
'To the onlie begetter of these insuing sonnets . 
'Good heavens ! I cried , 'is this Shakespeare's Mr. W. H. ? 'Cyril Graham used to say so , muttered Erskine . 
'But it is not a bit like Lord Pembroke , I answered . 
'I know the Penshurst portraits very well . 
I was staying near there a few weeks ago . 
'Do you really believe then that the sonnets are addressed to Lord Pembroke ? he asked . 
'I am sure of it , I answered . 
'Pembroke , Shakespeare , and Mrs. Mary Fitton are the three personages of the Sonnets there is no doubt at all about it . 
'Well , I agree with you , said Erskine , 'but I did not always think so . 
I used to believe well , I suppose I used to believe in Cyril Graham and his theory . 
'And what was that ? I asked , looking at the wonderful portrait , which had already begun to have a strange fascination for me . 
'I love theories about the Sonnets , I cried 'but I don't think I am likely to be converted to any new idea . 
The matter has ceased to be a mystery to any one . 
Indeed , I wonder that it ever was a mystery . 
'As I don't believe in the theory , I am not likely to convert you to it , said Erskine , laughing 'but it may interest you . 
'Tell it to me , of course , I answered . 
'If it is half as delightful as the picture , I shall be more than satisfied . 
'Well , said Erskine , lighting a cigarette , 'I must begin by telling you about Cyril Graham himself . 
He and I were at the same house at Eton . 
I was a year or two older than he was , but we were immense friends , and did all our work and all our play together . 
There was , of course , a good deal more play than work , but I cannot say that I am sorry for that . 
I should tell you that Cyril's father and mother were both dead . 
They had been drowned in a horrible yachting accident off the Isle of Wight . 
I don't think that Lord Crediton cared very much for Cyril . 
He had never really forgiven his daughter for marrying a man who had not a title . 
He was an extraordinary old aristocrat , who swore like a costermonger , and had the manners of a farmer . 
I remember seeing him once on Speech day . 
He growled at me , gave me a sovereign , and told me not to grow up a damned Radical like my father . 
Cyril had very little affection for him , and was only too glad to spend most of his holidays with us in Scotland . 
They never really got on together at all . 
Cyril thought him a bear , and he thought Cyril effeminate . 
He was effeminate , I suppose , in some things , though he was a very good rider and a capital fencer . 
In fact he got the foils before he left Eton . 
But he was very languid in his manner , and not a little vain of his good looks , and had a strong objection to football . 
The two things that really gave him pleasure were poetry and acting . 
At Eton he was always dressing up and reciting Shakespeare , and when we went up to Trinity he became a member of the A. D. C. his first term . 
I remember I was always very jealous of his acting . 
I was absurdly devoted to him I suppose because we were so different in some things . 
I was a rather awkward , weakly lad , with huge feet , and horribly freckled . 
Freckles run in Scotch families just as gout does in English families . 
He certainly was wonderfully handsome . 
I think he was the most splendid creature I ever saw , and nothing could exceed the grace of his movements , the charm of his manner . 
He fascinated everybody who was worth fascinating , and a great many people who were not . 
He was often wilful and petulant , and I used to think him dreadfully insincere . 
It was due , I think , chiefly to his inordinate desire to please . 
Poor Cyril ! I told him once that he was contented with very cheap triumphs , but he only laughed . 
All charming people , I fancy , are spoiled . 
It is the secret of their attraction . 
'However , I must tell you about Cyril's acting . 
You know that no actresses are allowed to play at the A. D. C. At least they were not in my time . 
I don't know how it is now . 
Well , of course , Cyril was always cast for the girls' parts , and when AS YOU LIKE IT was produced he played Rosalind . 
It was a marvellous performance . 
In fact , Cyril Graham was the only perfect Rosalind I have ever seen . 
It would be impossible to describe to you the beauty , the delicacy , the refinement of the whole thing . 
It made an immense sensation , and the horrid little theatre , as it was then , was crowded every night . 
Even when I read the play now I can't help thinking of Cyril . 
It might have been written for him . 
The next term he took his degree , and came to London to read for the diplomatic . 
But he never did any work . 
He spent his days in reading Shakespeare's Sonnets , and his evenings at the theatre . 
He was , of course , wild to go on the stage . 
It was all that I and Lord Crediton could do to prevent him . 
Perhaps if he had gone on the stage he would be alive now . 
It is always a silly thing to give advice , but to give good advice is absolutely fatal . 
I hope you will never fall into that error . 
If you do , you will be sorry for it . 
'Well , to come to the real point of the story , one day I got a letter from Cyril asking me to come round to his rooms that evening . 
Of course I went , and when I arrived I found him in a state of great excitement . 
He was perfectly wild with delight , and for a long time would not tell me his theory . 
Finally , he produced a bundle of notes , took his copy of the Sonnets off the mantelpiece , and sat down and gave me a long lecture on the whole subject . 
And ends the sonnet by congratulating himself on the mean state of him he so adored . 
Then happy I , that love and am beloved Where I may not remove nor be removed . 
, in which Shakespeare tells us that his love is not the child of state , that it suffers not in smiling pomp , but is builded far from accident . 
We know from Meres that the Sonnets had been written before , and Sonnet CIV . 
informs us that Shakespeare's friendship for Mr. W. H. had been already in existence for three years . 
Shakespeare , accordingly , could not have known Lord Pembroke till after the Sonnets had been written . 
So far for Lord Pembroke , whose supposed claims Cyril easily demolished while I sat by in wonder . 
With Lord Southampton Cyril had even less difficulty . 
show that the Christian name of Shakespeare's friend was the same as his own WILL . 
Nor would he allow for a moment that the Sonnets are mere satires on the work of Drayton and John Davies of Hereford . 
He was Will , or , as he preferred to call him , Willie Hughes . 
The Christian name he found of course in the punning sonnets , CXXXV . 
Of course I was converted at once , and Willie Hughes became to me as real a person as Shakespeare . 
Cyril , however , pointed out that the absence of Willie Hughes's name from this list really corroborated the theory , as it was evident from Sonnet LXXXVI . 
that Willie Hughes had abandoned Shakespeare's company to play at a rival theatre , probably in some of Chapman's plays . 
being of course obvious , and the phrase under thee their poesy disperse , meaning by your assistance as an actor bring their plays before the people . 
'It was a wonderful evening , and we sat up almost till dawn reading and re reading the Sonnets . 
If this could be once established , there could be no possible doubt about his identity with Mr. W. H. but otherwise the theory would fall to the ground . 
I put this forward very strongly to Cyril , who was a good deal annoyed at what he called my Philistine tone of mind , and indeed was rather bitter upon the subject . 
at Dulwich , the Record Office , the papers of the Lord Chamberlain everything , in fact , that we thought might contain some allusion to Willie Hughes . 
We discovered nothing , of course , and every day the existence of Willie Hughes seemed to me to become more problematical . 
When I arrived , he said to me , The only apostle who did not deserve proof was St . 
Thomas was the only apostle who got it . 
I asked him what he meant . 
On taking it out , he found it was the picture that is now lying on the sofa . 
'But is it a forgery ? I asked . 
'Of course it is , said Erskine . 
'It is a very good forgery but it is a forgery none the less . 
I laughed at him , and told him that without it the theory would fall to the ground , and I warmly congratulated him on the marvellous discovery . 
One unlucky day I was in a print shop in Holborn , when I saw upon the counter some extremely beautiful drawings in silver point . 
I told him how much I admired his drawings , at which he seemed very pleased , and I asked him if he would show me some of his other work . 
Where on earth did you get that ? I said . 
He grew rather confused , and said Oh , that is nothing . 
I did not know it was in this portfolio . 
It is not a thing of any value . 
It is what you did for Mr. Cyril Graham , exclaimed his wife and if this gentleman wishes to buy it , let him have it . 
For Mr. Cyril Graham ? I repeated . 
Did you paint the picture of Mr. W. H. ? I don't understand what you mean , he answered , growing very red . 
Well , the whole thing was quite dreadful . 
The wife let it all out . 
I gave her five pounds when I was going away . 
I can't bear to think of it now but of course I was furious . 
He grew very pale and said I did it purely for your sake . 
You would not be convinced in any other way . 
It does not affect the truth of the theory . 
The truth of the theory ! I exclaimed the less we talk about that the better . 
You never even believed in it yourself . 
If you had , you would not have committed a forgery to prove it . 
High words passed between us we had a fearful quarrel . 
I dare say I was unjust . 
The next morning he was dead . 
'Dead ! I cried , 'Yes he shot himself with a revolver . 
Some of the blood splashed upon the frame of the picture , just where the name had been painted . 
By the time I arrived his servant had sent for me at once the police were already there . 
He had left a letter for me , evidently written in the greatest agitation and distress of mind . 
'What was in it ? I asked . 
It was a foolish , mad letter . 
'It is a most tragic story , I cried 'but why have you not carried out his wishes ? Erskine shrugged his shoulders . 
'Because it is a perfectly unsound theory from beginning to end , he answered . 
'My dear Erskine , I said , getting up from my seat , 'you are entirely wrong about the whole matter . 
It is the only perfect key to Shakespeare's Sonnets that has ever been made . 
It is complete in every detail . 
I believe in Willie Hughes . 
'Don't say that , said Erskine gravely 'I believe there is something fatal about the idea , and intellectually there is nothing to be said for it . 
I have gone into the whole matter , and I assure you the theory is entirely fallacious . 
It is plausible up to a certain point . 
For heaven's sake , my dear boy , don't take up the subject of Willie Hughes . 
You will break your heart over it . 
'Erskine , I answered , 'it is your duty to give this theory to the world . 
If you will not do it , I will . 
By keeping it back you wrong the memory of Cyril Graham , the youngest and the most splendid of all the martyrs of literature . 
I entreat you to do him justice . 
He died for this thing , don't let his death be in vain . 
Erskine looked at me in amazement . 
'You are carried away by the sentiment of the whole story , he said . 
'You forget that a thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it . 
I was devoted to Cyril Graham . 
His death was a horrible blow to me . 
I did not recover it for years . 
I don't think I have ever recovered it . 
But Willie Hughes ? There is nothing in the idea of Willie Hughes . 
No such person ever existed . 
As for bringing the whole thing before the world the world thinks that Cyril Graham shot himself by accident . 
The only proof of his suicide was contained in the letter to me , and of this letter the public never heard anything . 
To the present day Lord Crediton thinks that the whole thing was accidental . 
'Cyril Graham sacrificed his life to a great Idea , I answered 'and if you will not tell of his martyrdom , tell at least of his faith . 
The theory would be laughed at . 
Don't make a fool of yourself , and don't follow a trail that leads nowhere . 
You start by assuming the existence of the very person whose existence is the thing to be proved . 
Besides , everybody knows that the Sonnets were addressed to Lord Pembroke . 
The matter is settled once for all . 
'The matter is not settled ! I exclaimed . 
'I will take up the theory where Cyril Graham left it , and I will prove to the world that he was right . 
'Silly boy ! said Erskine . 
'Go home it is after two , and don't think about Willie Hughes any more . 
I am sorry I told you anything about it , and very sorry indeed that I should have converted you to a thing in which I don't believe . 
As I walked home through St . 
James's Park the dawn was just breaking over London . 
The white swans were lying asleep on the polished lake , and the gaunt Palace looked purple against the pale green sky . 
I thought of Cyril Graham , and my eyes filled with tears . 
CHAPTER II IT was past twelve o'clock when I awoke , and the sun was streaming in through the curtains of my room in long slanting beams of dusty gold . 
Every poem seemed to me to corroborate Cyril Graham's theory . 
I felt as if I had my hand upon Shakespeare's heart , and was counting each separate throb and pulse of passion . 
I thought of the wonderful boy actor , and saw his face in every line . 
Two sonnets , I remember , struck me particularly they were the rd and the th . 
'The best in this kind are but shadows , says Theseus of the actors in the MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM , and there are many similar allusions in the literature of the day . 
These sonnets evidently belonged to the series in which Shakespeare discusses the nature of the actor's art , and of the strange and rare temperament that is essential to the perfect stage player . 
Shakespeare shows us that he too was wearied of the world of puppets , and full of shame at having made himself 'a motley to the view . 
One point puzzled me immensely as I read the Sonnets , and it was days before I struck on the true interpretation , which indeed Cyril Graham himself seems to have missed . 
I could not understand how it was that Shakespeare set so high a value on his young friend marrying . 
He himself had married young , and the result had been unhappiness , and it was not likely that he would have asked Willie Hughes to commit the same error . 
The boy player of Rosalind had nothing to gain from marriage , or from the passions of real life . 
The early sonnets , with their strange entreaties to have children , seemed to me a jarring note . 
The explanation of the mystery came on me quite suddenly , and I found it in the curious dedication . 
It will be remembered that the dedication runs as follows TO THE ONLIE BEGETTER OF THESE INSUING SONNETS MR . 
W. H. ALL HAPPINESSE AND THAT ETERNITIE PROMISED BY OUR EVER LIVING POET WISHETH THE WELL WISHING ADVENTURER IN SETTING FORTH . 
Now I saw that the same metaphor was used by Shakespeare himself all through the poems , and this set me on the right track . 
Finally I made my great discovery . 
The children he begs him to beget are no children of flesh and blood , but more immortal children of undying fame . 
The whole cycle of the early sonnets is simply Shakespeare's invitation to Willie Hughes to go upon the stage and become a player . 
I collected all the passages that seemed to me to corroborate this view , and they produced a strong impression on me , and showed me how complete Cyril Graham's theory really was . 
I also saw that it was quite easy to separate those lines in which he speaks of the Sonnets themselves from those in which he speaks of his great dramatic work . 
This was a point that had been entirely overlooked by all critics up to Cyril Graham's day . 
And yet it was one of the most important points in the whole series of poems . 
To the Sonnets Shakespeare was more or less indifferent . 
He did not wish to rest his fame on them . 
Upon the other hand he was extremely conscious of the high artistic value of his plays , and shows a noble self reliance upon his dramatic genius . 
, we find the same feeling . 
Then do thy office , Muse I teach thee how To make him seem long hence as he shows now . 
It is , however , perhaps in the th Sonnet that Shakespeare gives to this idea its fullest expression . 
To imagine that the 'powerful rhyme' of the second line refers to the sonnet itself , is to mistake Shakespeare's meaning entirely . 
Not marble , nor the gilded monuments Of princes , shall outlive this powerful rhyme But you shall shine more bright in these contents Than unswept stone besmear'd with sluttish time . 
When wasteful wars shall statues overturn , And broils root out the work of masonry , Nor Mars his sword nor war's quick fire shall burn The living record of your memory . 
'Gainst death and all oblivious enmity Shall you pace forth your praise shall still find room Even in the eyes of all posterity That wear this world out to the ending doom . 
So , till the judgement that yourself arise , You live in this , and dwell in lovers' eyes . 
For two weeks I worked hard at the Sonnets , hardly ever going out , and refusing all invitations . 
Every day I seemed to be discovering something new , and Willie Hughes became to me a kind of spiritual presence , an ever dominant personality . 
His very name fascinated me . 
by the mere magic of his personality , but that was none the less shame . 
Yet as Shakespeare forgave him , should not we forgive him also ? I did not care to pry into the mystery of his sin . 
His abandonment of Shakespeare's theatre was a different matter , and I investigated it at great length . 
Finally I came to the conclusion that Cyril Graham had been wrong in regarding the rival dramatist of the th Sonnet as Chapman . 
It was obviously Marlowe who was alluded to . 
That Shakespeare had the legal right to retain Willie Hughes in his own company is evident from Sonnet LXXXVII . 
Thus have I had thee , as a dream doth flatter , In sleep a king , but waking no such matter . 
But him whom he could not hold by love , he would not hold by force . 
Willie Hughes became a member of Lord Pembroke's company , and , perhaps in the open yard of the Red Bull Tavern , played the part of King Edward's delicate minion . 
He could act love , but could not feel it , could mimic passion without realising it . 
In many's looks the false heart's history Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange , but with Willie Hughes it was not so . 
And yet , more fortunate in this than other actors , Willie Hughes was to know something of immortality . 
Inseparably connected with Shakespeare's plays , he was to live in them . 
He had the dialect and the different skill , Catching all passions in his craft of will . 
Once I thought that I had really found Willie Hughes in Elizabethan literature . 
Play , said he , my song , Will Hewes , and I will sing it to myself . 
Yet Lord Essex died in , when Shakespeare himself was but twelve years of age . 
It was impossible that his musician could have been the Mr. W. H. of the Sonnets . 
Perhaps Shakespeare's young friend was the son of the player upon the virginals ? It was at least something to have discovered that Will Hews was an Elizabethan name . 
Indeed the name Hews seemed to have been closely connected with music and the stage . 
The first English actress was the lovely Margaret Hews , whom Prince Rupert so madly loved . 
It seemed to me that I was always on the brink of absolute verification , but that I could never really attain to it . 
From Willie Hughes's life I soon passed to thoughts of his death . 
I used to wonder what had been his end . 
Certainly no more fitting place could there be for him to whom Shakespeare said , 'thou art all my art , than this little vineyard outside the city walls . 
His true tomb , as Shakespeare saw , was the poet's verse , his true monument the permanence of the drama . 
So had it been with others whose beauty had given a new creative impulse to their age . 
I put into the letter all my enthusiasm . 
I put into the letter all my faith . 
No sooner , in fact , had I sent it off than a curious reaction came over me . 
What was it that had happened ? It is difficult to say . 
Perhaps , by finding perfect expression for a passion , I had exhausted the passion itself . 
Emotional forces , like the forces of physical life , have their positive limitations . 
Perhaps the mere effort to convert any one to a theory involves some form of renunciation of the power of credence . 
Perhaps I was simply tired of the whole thing , and , my enthusiasm having burnt out , my reason was left to its own unimpassioned judgment . 
Accordingly , the next morning I drove down to Birdcage Walk , and found Erskine sitting in his library , with the forged picture of Willie Hughes in front of him . 
'My dear Erskine ! I cried , 'I have come to apologise to you . 
'To apologise to me ? he said . 
'What for ? 'For my letter , I answered . 
'You have nothing to regret in your letter , he said . 
'On the contrary , you have done me the greatest service in your power . 
You have shown me that Cyril Graham's theory is perfectly sound . 
'You don't mean to say that you believe in Willie Hughes ? I exclaimed . 
'Why not ? he rejoined . 
'You have proved the thing to me . 
Do you think I cannot estimate the value of evidence ? 'But there is no evidence at all , I groaned , sinking into a chair . 
'When I wrote to you I was under the influence of a perfectly silly enthusiasm . 
I had been touched by the story of Cyril Graham's death , fascinated by his romantic theory , enthralled by the wonder and novelty of the whole idea . 
I see now that the theory is based on a delusion . 
The only evidence for the existence of Willie Hughes is that picture in front of you , and the picture is a forgery . 
Don't be carried away by mere sentiment in this matter . 
Whatever romance may have to say about the Willie Hughes theory , reason is dead against it . 
'I don't understand you , said Erskine , looking at me in amazement . 
'Why , you yourself have convinced me by your letter that Willie Hughes is an absolute reality . 
The Sonnets are addressed to Lord Pembroke . 
'I see that you don't understand the theory , he replied . 
'My dear Erskine , I cried , 'not understand it ! Why , I feel as if I had invented it . 
Surely my letter shows you that I not merely went into the whole matter , but that I contributed proofs of every kind . 
The one flaw in the theory is that it presupposes the existence of the person whose existence is the subject of dispute . 
If we grant that there was in Shakespeare's company a young actor of the name of Willie Hughes , it is not difficult to make him the object of the Sonnets . 
But as we know that there was no actor of this name in the company of the Globe Theatre , it is idle to pursue the investigation further . 
'But that is exactly what we don't know , said Erskine . 
We argued the matter over for hours , but nothing that I could say could make Erskine surrender his faith in Cyril Graham's interpretation . 
He told me that he intended to devote his life to proving the theory , and that he was determined to do justice to Cyril Graham's memory . 
I entreated him , laughed at him , begged of him , but it was of no use . 
Finally we parted , not exactly in anger , but certainly with a shadow between us . 
He thought me shallow , I thought him foolish . 
When I called on him again his servant told me that he had gone to Germany . 
Two years afterwards , as I was going into my club , the hall porter handed me a letter with a foreign postmark . 
It was from Erskine , and written at the Hotel d'Angleterre , Cannes . 
When I had read it I was filled with horror , though I did not quite believe that he would be so mad as to carry his resolve into execution . 
The truth was once revealed to you , and you rejected it . 
It comes to you now stained with the blood of two lives , do not turn away from it . 
It was a horrible moment . 
I felt sick with misery , and yet I could not believe it . 
To die for one's theological beliefs is the worst use a man can make of his life , but to die for a literary theory ! It seemed impossible . 
I looked at the date . 
The letter was a week old . 
Some unfortunate chance had prevented my going to the club for several days , or I might have got it in time to save him . 
Perhaps it was not too late . 
I drove off to my rooms , packed up my things , and started by the night mail from Charing Cross . 
I thought I would never arrive . 
As soon as I did I drove to the Hotel l'Angleterre . 
They told me that Erskine had been buried two days before in the English cemetery . 
There was something horribly grotesque about the whole tragedy . 
I said all kinds of wild things , and the people in the hall looked curiously at me . 
Suddenly Lady Erskine , in deep mourning , passed across the vestibule . 
When she saw me she came up to me , murmured something about her poor son , and burst into tears . 
I led her into her sitting room . 
An elderly gentleman was there waiting for her . 
It was the English doctor . 
We talked a great deal about Erskine , but I said nothing about his motive for committing suicide . 
It was evident that he had not told his mother anything about the reason that had driven him to so fatal , so mad an act . 
Finally Lady Erskine rose and said , George left you something as a memento . 
It was a thing he prized very much . 
I will get it for you . 
'Oh , she knew for months past that it was coming , he answered . 
'Knew it for months past ! I cried . 
'But why didn't she stop him ? Why didn't she have him watched ? He must have been mad . 
The doctor stared at me . 
'I don't know what you mean , he said . 
'Well , I cried , 'if a mother knows that her son is going to commit suicide 'Suicide ! he answered . 
'Poor Erskine did not commit suicide . 
He came here to die . 
The moment I saw him I knew that there was no hope . 
One lung was almost gone , and the other was very much affected . 
Three days before he died he asked me was there any hope . 
I told him frankly that there was none , and that he had only a few days to live . 
He wrote some letters , and was quite resigned , retaining his senses to the last . 
At that moment Lady Erskine entered the room with the fatal picture of Willie Hughes in her hand . 
'When George was dying he begged me to give you this , she said . 
As I took it from her , her tears fell on my hand . 
The picture hangs now in my library , where it is very much admired by my artistic friends . 
They have decided that it is not a Clouet , but an Oudry . 
I have never cared to tell them its true history . 
But sometimes , when I look at it , I think that there is really a great deal to be said for the Willie Hughes theory of Shakespeare's Sonnets . 
End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of Lord Arthur Savile's Crime , etc . 
