Little Dorrit Charles Dickens CONTENTS Preface to the Edition BOOK THE FIRST POVERTY . 
Mrs Flintwinch has a Dream . 
The Father of the Marshalsea . 
The Child of the Marshalsea . 
Containing the whole Science of Government . 
Mrs Flintwinch has another Dream . 
The Father of the Marshalsea in two or three Relations . 
Mrs Flintwinch goes on Dreaming . 
The Word of a Gentleman . 
What was behind Mr Pancks on Little Dorrit's Hand . 
The Marshalsea becomes an Orphan BOOK THE SECOND RICHES . 
A Letter from Little Dorrit . 
Mostly , Prunes and Prism . 
The Dowager Mrs Gowan is reminded that 'It Never Does' . 
The Dreams of Mrs Flintwinch thicken . 
A Letter from Little Dorrit . 
In which a Great Patriotic Conference is holden . 
The Progress of an Epidemic . 
No just Cause or Impediment why these Two Persons should not be joined together . 
A Castle in the Air . 
The Storming of the Castle in the Air . 
The History of a Self Tormentor . 
Who Passes by this Road so late ? . 
Mistress Affery makes a Conditional Promise , respecting her Dreams . 
The Evening of a Long Day . 
The Chief Butler Resigns the Seals of Office . 
The Pupil of the Marshalsea . 
An Appearance in the Marshalsea . 
A Plea in the Marshalsea . 
Gone PREFACE TO THE EDITION I have been occupied with this story , during many working hours of two years . 
I must have been very ill employed , if I could not leave its merits and demerits as a whole , to express themselves on its being read as a whole . 
that nothing like them was ever known in this land . 
Some of my readers may have an interest in being informed whether or no any portions of the Marshalsea Prison are yet standing . 
I did not know , myself , until the sixth of this present month , when I went to look . 
I found the outer front courtyard , often mentioned here , metamorphosed into a butter shop and I then almost gave up every brick of the jail for lost . 
came by his information , I don't know he was a quarter of a century too young to know anything about it of himself . 
I asked him who was Tom Pythick ? and he said , 'Joe Pythick's uncle . 
A little further on , I found the older and smaller wall , which used to enclose the pent up inner prison where nobody was put , except for ceremony . 
In the Preface to Bleak House I remarked that I had never had so many readers . 
In the Preface to its next successor , Little Dorrit , I have still to repeat the same words . 
A blazing sun upon a fierce August day was no greater rarity in southern France then , than at any other time , before or since . 
Everything in Marseilles , and about Marseilles , had stared at the fervid sky , and been stared at in return , until a staring habit had become universal there . 
Strangers were stared out of countenance by staring white houses , staring white walls , staring white streets , staring tracts of arid road , staring hills from which verdure was burnt away . 
The only things to be seen not fixedly staring and glaring were the vines drooping under their load of grapes . 
These did occasionally wink a little , as the hot air barely moved their faint leaves . 
There was no wind to make a ripple on the foul water within the harbour , or on the beautiful sea without . 
Boats without awnings were too hot to touch ships blistered at their moorings the stones of the quays had not cooled , night or day , for months . 
The universal stare made the eyes ache . 
Far away the staring roads , deep in dust , stared from the hill side , stared from the hollow , stared from the interminable plain . 
Far away the dusty vines overhanging wayside cottages , and the monotonous wayside avenues of parched trees without shade , drooped beneath the stare of earth and sky . 
The very dust was scorched brown , and something quivered in the atmosphere as if the air itself were panting . 
Blinds , shutters , curtains , awnings , were all closed and drawn to keep out the stare . 
Grant it but a chink or keyhole , and it shot in like a white hot arrow . 
The churches were the freest from it . 
In Marseilles that day there was a villainous prison . 
That was all the chamber held , exclusive of rats and other unseen vermin , in addition to the seen vermin , the two men . 
There was a broad strong ledge of stone to this grating where the bottom of it was let into the masonry , three or four feet above the ground . 
The bars were wide enough apart to admit of his thrusting his arm through to the elbow and so he held on negligently , for his greater ease . 
A prison taint was on everything there . 
The imprisoned air , the imprisoned light , the imprisoned damps , the imprisoned men , were all deteriorated by confinement . 
The man who lay on the ledge of the grating was even chilled . 
They had no depth or change they glittered , and they opened and shut . 
So far , and waiving their use to himself , a clockmaker could have made a better pair . 
He had a hook nose , handsome after its kind , but too high between the eyes by probably just as much as his eyes were too near to one another . 
, was unusually small and plump would have been unusually white but for the prison grime . 
The other man was lying on the stone floor , covered with a coarse brown coat . 
'Get up , pig ! growled the first . 
'Don't sleep when I am hungry . 
'It's all one , master , said the pig , in a submissive manner , and not without cheerfulness 'I can wake when I will , I can sleep when I will . 
, and sat down upon the pavement yawning , with his back against the wall opposite to the grating . 
'Say what the hour is , grumbled the first man . 
'The mid day bells will ring in forty minutes . 
When he made the little pause , he had looked round the prison room , as if for certain information . 
How is it that you always know ? 'How can I say ? I always know what the hour is , and where I am . 
I was brought in here at night , and out of a boat , but I know where I am . 
See here ! Marseilles harbour on his knees on the pavement , mapping it all out with a swarthy forefinger 'Toulon , Spain over there , Algiers over there . 
Creeping away to the left here , Nice . 
Round by the Cornice to Genoa . 
City there terrace gardens blushing with the bella donna . 
Out again for Civita Vecchia . 
A sunburnt , quick , lithe , little man , though rather thickset . 
Earrings in his brown ears , white teeth lighting up his grotesque brown face , intensely black hair clustering about his brown throat , a ragged red shirt open at his brown breast . 
Loose , seaman like trousers , decent shoes , a long red cap , a red sash round his waist , and a knife in it . 
The apartment of the jailer and his keys is where I put this thumb and here at my wrist they keep the national razor in its case the guillotine locked up . 
The other man spat suddenly on the pavement , and gurgled in his throat . 
Some lock below gurgled in its throat immediately afterwards , and then a door crashed . 
'How goes the world this forenoon , gentlemen ? My little one , you see , going round with me to have a peep at her father's birds . 
Fie , then ! Look at the birds , my pretty , look at the birds . 
He looked sharply at the birds himself , as he held the child up at the grate , especially at the little bird , whose activity he seemed to mistrust . 
'and if I might recommend you not to game 'You don't recommend the master ! said John Baptist , showing his teeth as he smiled . 
'Oh ! but the master wins , returned the jailer , with a passing look of no particular liking at the other man , 'and you lose . 
You get husky bread and sour drink by it and he gets sausage of Lyons , veal in savoury jelly , white bread , strachino cheese , and good wine by it . 
Look at the birds , my pretty ! 'Poor birds ! said the child . 
The fair little face , touched with divine compassion , as it peeped shrinkingly through the grate , was like an angel's in the prison . 
John Baptist rose and moved towards it , as if it had a good attraction for him . 
The other bird remained as before , except for an impatient glance at the basket . 
'Stay ! said the jailer , putting his little daughter on the outer ledge of the grate , 'she shall feed the birds . 
This big loaf is for Signor John Baptist . 
We must break it to get it through into the cage . 
So , there's a tame bird to kiss the little hand ! This sausage in a vine leaf is for Monsieur Rigaud . 
Again this veal in savoury jelly is for Monsieur Rigaud . 
Again these three white little loaves are for Monsieur Rigaud . 
Again , this cheese again , this wine again , this tobacco all for Monsieur Rigaud . 
, with ready confidence and , when he kissed her hand , had herself passed it caressingly over his face . 
When Monsieur Rigaud laughed , a change took place in his face , that was more remarkable than prepossessing . 
His moustache went up under his nose , and his nose came down over his moustache , in a very sinister and cruel manner . 
Monsieur Rigaud , as I expected yesterday , the President will look for the pleasure of your society at an hour after mid day , to day . 
'To try me , eh ? said Rigaud , pausing , knife in hand and morsel in mouth . 
'There is no news for me ? asked John Baptist , who had begun , contentedly , to munch his bread . 
The jailer shrugged his shoulders . 
He seemed to glance obliquely at Monsieur Rigaud in this remark but Monsieur Rigaud had already resumed his meal , though not with quite so quick an appetite as before . 
'Adieu , my birds ! said the keeper of the prison , taking his pretty child in his arms , and dictating the words with a kiss . 
'Adieu , my birds ! the pretty child repeated . 
Then the child's head disappeared , and the prison keeper's head disappeared , but the little voice prolonged the strain until the door clashed . 
, reminded him with a push of his foot that he had better resume his own darker place . 
Then , as he paused in his drink to contemplate his fellow prisoner , his moustache went up , and his nose came down . 
'How do you find the bread ? 'A little dry , but I have my old sauce here , returned John Baptist , holding up his knife . 
'How sauce ? 'I can cut my bread so like a melon . 
Or so like an omelette . 
Or so like a fried fish . 
Or so like Lyons sausage , said John Baptist , demonstrating the various cuts on the bread he held , and soberly chewing what he had in his mouth . 
'Here ! cried Monsieur Rigaud . 
'Put the bottle by with the rest , said Rigaud . 
'Here ! You may have one . 
'A thousand thanks , my master ! John Baptist said in his own language , and with the quick conciliatory manner of his own countrymen . 
Monsieur Rigaud arose , lighted a cigarette , put the rest of his stock into a breast pocket , and stretched himself out at full length upon the bench . 
Cavalletto sat down on the pavement , holding one of his ankles in each hand , and smoking peacefully . 
There seemed to be some uncomfortable attraction of Monsieur Rigaud's eyes to the immediate neighbourhood of that part of the pavement where the thumb had been in the plan . 
They were so drawn in that direction , that the Italian more than once followed them to and back from the pavement in some surprise . 
'What an infernal hole this is ! said Monsieur Rigaud , breaking a long pause . 
'Look at the light of day . 
Day ? the light of yesterday week , the light of six months ago , the light of six years ago . 
So slack and dead ! It came languishing down a square funnel that blinded a window in the staircase wall , through which the sky was never seen nor anything else . 
You , nine weeks and three days , at five this afternoon . 
at the disposition of other little people whose papers are wrong and he instinctively recognises my position , even by this light and in this place . 
It's well done ! By Heaven ! I win , however the game goes . 
Again his moustache went up , and his nose came down . 
'What's the hour now ? he asked , with a dry hot pallor upon him , rather difficult of association with merriment . 
'A little half hour after mid day . 
'Good ! The President will have a gentleman before him soon . 
Come ! Shall I tell you on what accusation ? It must be now , or never , for I shall not return here . 
Either I shall go free , or I shall go to be made ready for shaving . 
You know where they keep the razor . 
Signor Cavalletto took his cigarette from between his parted lips , and showed more momentary discomfiture than might have been expected . 
'I am a' Monsieur Rigaud stood up to say it 'I am a cosmopolitan gentleman . 
I own no particular country . 
My father was Swiss Canton de Vaud . 
My mother was French by blood , English by birth . 
I myself was born in Belgium . 
I am a citizen of the world . 
'Call me five and thirty years of age . 
I have seen the world . 
I have lived here , and lived there , and lived like a gentleman everywhere . 
I have been treated and respected as a gentleman universally . 
'Two years ago I came to Marseilles . 
I admit that I was poor I had been ill . 
When your lawyers , your politicians , your intriguers , your men of the Exchange fall ill , and have not scraped money together , they become poor . 
I put up at the Cross of Gold , kept then by Monsieur Henri Barronneau sixty five at least , and in a failing state of health . 
I had lived in the house some four months when Monsieur Henri Barronneau had the misfortune to die at any rate , not a rare misfortune , that . 
It happens without any aid of mine , pretty often . 
John Baptist having smoked his cigarette down to his fingers' ends , Monsieur Rigaud had the magnanimity to throw him another . 
He lighted the second at the ashes of the first , and smoked on , looking sideways at his companion , who , preoccupied with his own case , hardly looked at him . 
'Monsieur Barronneau left a widow . 
She was two and twenty . 
I continued to live at the Cross of Gold . 
It is not for me to say whether there was any great disparity in such a match . 
Here I stand , with the contamination of a jail upon me but it is possible that you may think me better suited to her than her former husband was . 
He had a certain air of being a handsome man which he was not and a certain air of being a well bred man which he was not . 
It was mere swagger and challenge but in this particular , as in many others , blustering assertion goes for proof , half over the world . 
'Be it as it may , Madame Barronneau approved of me . 
Now came the difficulties of our position . 
I say nothing in defence of pride , but I am proud . 
It is also my character to govern . 
I can't submit I must govern . 
Unfortunately , the property of Madame Rigaud was settled upon herself . 
Such was the insane act of her late husband . 
More unfortunately still , she had relations . 
When a wife's relations interpose against a husband who is a gentleman , who is proud , and who must govern , the consequences are inimical to peace . 
There was yet another source of difference between us . 
Madame Rigaud was unfortunately a little vulgar . 
Quarrels began to arise between us and , propagated and exaggerated by the slanders of the relations of Madame Rigaud , to become notorious to the neighbours . 
It has been said that I treated Madame Rigaud with cruelty . 
I may have been seen to slap her face nothing more . 
I have a light hand and if I have been seen apparently to correct Madame Rigaud in that manner , I have done it almost playfully . 
'I am sensitive and brave . 
I do not advance it as a merit to be sensitive and brave , but it is my character . 
If the male relations of Madame Rigaud had put themselves forward openly , I should have known how to deal with them . 
They knew that , and their machinations were conducted in secret consequently , Madame Rigaud and I were brought into frequent and unfortunate collision . 
Madame Rigaud retorted I retorted Madame Rigaud grew warm I grew warm , and provoked her . 
Frankness is a part of my character . 
, tore my clothes , tore my hair , lacerated my hands , trampled and trod the dust , and finally leaped over , dashing herself to death upon the rocks below . 
'What do you mean ? John Baptist polished his knife in silence . 
'Do you mean that I have not represented the case correctly ? 'Al tro ! returned John Baptist . 
The word was an apology now , and stood for 'Oh , by no means ! 'What then ? 'Presidents and tribunals are so prejudiced . 
Nothing more was said on either side , though they both began walking to and fro , and necessarily crossed at every turn . 
By and by the noise of the key in the lock arrested them both . 
The sound of voices succeeded , and the tread of feet . 
The door clashed , the voices and the feet came on , and the prison keeper slowly ascended the stairs , followed by a guard of soldiers . 
'Now , Monsieur Rigaud , said he , pausing for a moment at the grate , with his keys in his hands , 'have the goodness to come out . 
There's a crowd , Monsieur Rigaud , and it doesn't love you . 
He passed on out of sight , and unlocked and unbarred a low door in the corner of the chamber . 
'Now , said he , as he opened it and appeared within , 'come out . 
There is no sort of whiteness in all the hues under the sun at all like the whiteness of Monsieur Rigaud's face as it was then . 
Neither is there any expression of the human countenance at all like that expression in every little line of which the frightened heart is seen to beat . 
Both are conventionally compared with death but the difference is the whole deep gulf between the struggle done , and the fight at its most desperate extremity . 
As to that little man himself , his whole attention had become absorbed in getting near the door and looking out at it . 
There was an officer in command of the soldiers a stout , serviceable , profoundly calm man , with his drawn sword in his hand , smoking a cigar . 
nothing but a raging swell of sound distinctly heard . 
CHAPTER Fellow Travellers 'No more of yesterday's howling over yonder to day , Sir is there ? 'I have heard none . 
'Then you may be sure there is none . 
When these people howl , they howl to be heard . 
'Most people do , I suppose . 
'Ah ! but these people are always howling . 
'Do you mean the Marseilles people ? 'I mean the French people . 
As to Marseilles , we know what Marseilles is . 
It sent the most insurrectionary tune into the world that was ever composed . 
It couldn't exist without allonging and marshonging to something or other victory or death , or blazes , or something . 
'Allong and marshong , indeed . 
'But we shall be out to day . 
'Out to day ! repeated the first . 
'It's almost an aggravation of the enormity , that we shall be out to day . 
Out ! What have we ever been in for ? 'For no very strong reason , I must say . 
But as we come from the East , and as the East is the country of the plague 'The plague ! repeated the other . 
I have had the plague continually , ever since I have been here . 
I am like a sane man shut up in a madhouse I can't stand the suspicion of the thing . 
I came here as well as ever I was in my life but to suspect me of the plague is to give me the plague . 
And I have had it and I have got it . 
'You bear it very well , Mr Meagles , said the second speaker , smiling . 
If you knew the real state of the case , that's the last observation you would think of making . 
Why , I'd as soon have a spit put through me , and be stuck upon a card in a collection of beetles , as lead the life I have been leading here . 
'Well , Mr Meagles , say no more about it now it's over , urged a cheerful feminine voice . 
to be in that peculiar state of mind in which the last word spoken by anybody else is a new injury . 
'There ! Never mind , Father , never mind ! said Mrs Meagles . 
'For goodness sake content yourself with Pet . 
'With Pet ? repeated Mr Meagles in his injured vein . 
Pet , however , being close behind him , touched him on the shoulder , and Mr Meagles immediately forgave Marseilles from the bottom of his heart . 
A fair girl with rich brown hair hanging free in natural ringlets . 
A lovely girl , with a frank face , and wonderful eyes so large , so soft , so bright , set to such perfection in her kind good head . 
'Come ! said Mr Meagles , 'that's something to be sure . 
I am obliged to you for that remark . 
Now , Pet , my darling , you had better go along with Mother and get ready for the boat . 
Tattycoram , stick you close to your young mistress . 
They crossed the bare scorched terrace all three together , and disappeared through a staring white archway . 
Mr Meagles's companion , a grave dark man of forty , still stood looking towards this archway after they were gone until Mr Meagles tapped him on the arm . 
'I beg your pardon , said he , starting . 
'Not at all , said Mr Meagles . 
Mr Meagles's companion resumed the conversation . 
'May I ask you , he said , 'what is the name of 'Tattycoram ? Mr Meagles struck in . 
'I have not the least idea . 
'I thought , said the other , 'that 'Tattycoram ? suggested Mr Meagles again . 
'Thank you that Tattycoram was a name and I have several times wondered at the oddity of it . 
'Why , the fact is , said Mr Meagles , 'Mrs Meagles and myself are , you see , practical people . 
began to cry so , that it was necessary to take her out . 
What's the matter , Mother ? said I , when we had brought her a little round you are frightening Pet , my dear . 
Yes , I know that , Father , says Mother , but I think it's through my loving her so much , that it ever came into my head . 
I said , Mother , that's what I call practical in you , my dear . 
The other , not unmoved , assented . 
'So I said next day Now , Mother , I have a proposition to make that I think you'll approve of . 
Let us take one of those same little children to be a little maid to Pet . 
So if we should find her temper a little defective , or any of her ways a little wide of ours , we shall know what we have to take into account . 
And that's the way we came by Tattycoram . 
'And the name itself 'By George ! said Mr Meagles , 'I was forgetting the name itself . 
Why , she was called in the Institution , Harriet Beadle an arbitrary name , of course . 
You haven't seen a beadle lately ? 'As an Englishman who has been more than twenty years in China , no . 
'Then , said Mr Meagles , laying his forefinger on his companion's breast with great animation , 'don't you see a beadle , now , if you can help it . 
No , said Mr Meagles . 
'I am afraid I have inadvertently touched upon a tender theme . 
'Never mind , said Mr Meagles . 
'If I am grave about it , I am not at all sorrowful . 
It quiets me for a moment , but does not make me unhappy . 
Pet had a twin sister who died when we could just see her eyes exactly like Pet's above the table , as she stood on tiptoe holding by it . 
Pet and her baby sister were so exactly alike , and so completely one , that in our thoughts we have never been able to separate them since . 
It would be of no use to tell us that our dead child was a mere infant . 
We have changed that child according to the changes in the child spared to us and always with us . 
As Pet has grown , that child has grown as Pet has become more sensible and womanly , her sister has become more sensible and womanly by just the same degrees . 
'I understand you , said the other , gently . 
, we go trotting about the world . 
'I thank you , said the other , 'very heartily for your confidence . 
'Don't mention it , returned Mr Meagles , 'I am sure you are quite welcome . 
And now , Mr Clennam , perhaps I may ask you whether you have yet come to a decision where to go next ? 'Indeed , no . 
I am such a waif and stray everywhere , that I am liable to be drifted where any current may set . 
'It's extraordinary to me if you'll excuse my freedom in saying so that you don't go straight to London , said Mr Meagles , in the tone of a confidential adviser . 
'Ay ! But I mean with a will . 
That is to say , he coloured a little , 'next to none that I can put in action now . 
'Light 'em up again ! said Mr Meagles . 
I am the son , Mr Meagles , of a hard father and mother . 
I am the only child of parents who weighed , measured , and priced everything for whom what could not be weighed , measured , and priced , had no existence . 
'Really though ? said Mr Meagles , made very uncomfortable by the picture offered to his imagination . 
'That was a tough commencement . 
But come ! You must now study , and profit by , all that lies beyond it , like a practical man . 
'If the people who are usually called practical , were practical in your direction 'Why , so they are ! said Mr Meagles . 
'Are they indeed ? 'Well , I suppose so , returned Mr Meagles , thinking about it . 
'Eh ? One can but be practical , and Mrs Meagles and myself are nothing else . 
'My unknown course is easier and more helpful than I had expected to find it , then , said Clennam , shaking his head with his grave smile . 
Finally , everything was done according to rule , and the travellers were at liberty to depart whithersoever they would . 
'But I bear those monotonous walls no ill will now , said Mr Meagles . 
'One always begins to forgive a place as soon as it's left behind I dare say a prisoner begins to relent towards his prison , after he is let out . 
They were about thirty in company , and all talking but necessarily in groups . 
The reserved Englishwoman took up Mr Meagles in his last remark . 
'Do you mean that a prisoner forgives his prison ? said she , slowly and with emphasis . 
'That was my speculation , Miss Wade . 
I don't pretend to know positively how a prisoner might feel . 
I never was one before . 
'Mademoiselle doubts , said the French gentleman in his own language , 'it's being so easy to forgive ? 'I do . 
Pet had to translate this passage to Mr Meagles , who never by any accident acquired any knowledge whatever of the language of any country into which he travelled . 
'Dear me ! But that's a pity , isn't it ? 'That I am not credulous ? said Miss Wade . 
That you can't believe it easy to forgive . 
'My experience , she quietly returned , 'has been correcting my belief in many respects , for some years . 
It is our natural progress , I have heard . 
'Well , well ! But it's not natural to bear malice , I hope ? said Mr Meagles , cheerily . 
'If I had been shut up in any place to pine and suffer , I should always hate that place and wish to burn it down , or raze it to the ground . 
The breakfast beginning by and by to languish , Mr Meagles made the company a speech . 
It was short enough and sensible enough , considering that it was a speech at all , and hearty . 
The solitary young lady all this time had said no more . 
She sat , turned away from the whole length of the apartment , as if she were lonely of her own haughty choice . 
And yet it would have been as difficult as ever to say , positively , whether she avoided the rest , or was avoided . 
The shadow in which she sat , falling like a gloomy veil across her forehead , accorded very well with the character of her beauty . 
That it could soften or relent , appeared next to impossible . 
It was dressed and trimmed into no ceremony of expression . 
Although not an open face , there was no pretence in it . 
It said so in the proud eyes , in the lifted nostril , in the handsome but compressed and even cruel mouth . 
Cover either two of those channels of expression , and the third would have said so still . 
Mask them all , and the mere turn of the head would have shown an unsubduable nature . 
, and was standing at her side . 
'Are you' she turned her eyes , and Pet faltered 'expecting any one to meet you here , Miss Wade ? 'I ? No. 'Father is sending to the Poste Restante . 
Shall he have the pleasure of directing the messenger to ask if there are any letters for you ? 'I thank him , but I know there can be none . 
'We are afraid , said Pet , sitting down beside her , shyly and half tenderly , 'that you will feel quite deserted when we are all gone . 
'I have not intended to make it understood that I did wish it . 
'Very glad , said Mr Meagles , coming forward with his wife and Clennam . 
'Anything short of speaking the language , I shall be delighted to undertake , I am sure . 
'I am obliged to you , she returned , 'but my arrangements are made , and I prefer to go my own way in my own manner . 
'Do you ? said Mr Meagles to himself , as he surveyed her with a puzzled look . 
'Well ! There's character in that , too . 
'I am not much used to the society of young ladies , and I am afraid I may not show my appreciation of it as others might . 
A pleasant journey to you . 
Good bye ! She would not have put out her hand , it seemed , but that Mr Meagles put out his so straight before her that she could not pass it . 
She put hers in it , and it lay there just as it had lain upon the couch . 
'Good bye ! said Mr Meagles . 
'This is the last good bye upon the list , for Mother and I have just said it to Mr Clennam here , and he only waits to say it to Pet . 
Good bye ! We may never meet again . 
There was something in the manner of these words that jarred upon Pet's ear . 
This was not lost on the speaker . 
'Your pretty daughter , she said , 'starts to think of such things . 
Of a certainty they will do it . 
Now , there were many stairs and passages that she had to traverse in passing from that part of the spacious house to the chamber she had secured for her own occupation . 
When she had almost completed the journey , and was passing along the gallery in which her room was , she heard an angry sound of muttering and sobbing . 
A door stood open , and within she saw the attendant upon the girl she had just left the maid with the curious name . 
She stood still , to look at this maid . 
'Selfish brutes ! said the girl , sobbing and heaving between whiles . 
'It's nothing to you what's the matter . 
It don't signify to any one . 
'O yes it does I am sorry to see you so . 
'You are not sorry , said the girl . 
You know you are glad . 
I never was like this but twice over in the quarantine yonder and both times you found me . 
I am afraid of you . 
'Afraid of me ? 'Yes . 
You seem to come like my own anger , my own malice , my own whatever it is I don't know what it is . 
The visitor stood looking at her with a strange attentive smile . 
It was wonderful to see the fury of the contest in the girl , and the bodily struggle she made as if she were rent by the Demons of old . 
I hate her ! They make a fool of her , they spoil her . 
She thinks of nothing but herself , she thinks no more of me than if I was a stock and a stone ! So the girl went on . 
'I WON'T have patience ! 'If they take much care of themselves , and little or none of you , you must not mind it . 
'Hush ! Be more prudent . 
You forget your dependent position . 
'I don't care for that . 
'Go away from me , go away from me ! When my temper comes upon me , I am mad . 
I know I might keep it off if I only tried hard enough , and sometimes I do try hard enough , and at other times I don't and won't . 
What have I said ! I knew when I said it , it was all lies . 
They think I am being taken care of somewhere , and have all I want . 
They are nothing but good to me . 
I love them dearly no people could ever be kinder to a thankless creature than they always are to me . 
Do , do go away , for I am afraid of you . 
I am afraid of myself when I feel my temper coming , and I am as much afraid of you . 
CHAPTER Home It was a Sunday evening in London , gloomy , close , and stale . 
Maddening church bells of all degrees of dissonance , sharp and flat , cracked and clear , fast and slow , made the brick and mortar echoes hideous . 
Melancholy streets , in a penitential garb of soot , steeped the souls of the people who were condemned to look at them out of windows , in dire despondency . 
Everything was bolted and barred that could by possibility furnish relief to an overworked people . 
Nothing to see but streets , streets , streets . 
Nothing to breathe but streets , streets , streets . 
Nothing to change the brooding mind , or raise it up . 
Miles of close wells and pits of houses , where the inhabitants gasped for air , stretched far away towards every point of the compass . 
Through the heart of the town a deadly sewer ebbed and flowed , in the place of a fine fresh river . 
As the hour approached , its changes of measure made it more and more exasperating . 
'Thank Heaven ! said Clennam , when the hour struck , and the bell stopped . 
But its sound had revived a long train of miserable Sundays , and the procession would not stop with the bell , but continued to march on . 
'Heaven forgive me , said he , 'and those who trained me . 
There was a legion of Sundays , all days of unserviceable bitterness and mortification , slowly passing before him . 
'Beg pardon , sir , said a brisk waiter , rubbing the table . 
'Wish see bed room ? 'Yes . 
I have just made up my mind to do it . 
'Chaymaid ! cried the waiter . 
'Gelen box num seven wish see room ! 'Stay ! said Clennam , rousing himself . 
'I was not thinking of what I said I answered mechanically . 
I am not going to sleep here . 
'Deed , sir ? Chaymaid ! Gelen box num seven , not go sleep here , gome . 
Then wet umbrellas began to appear , draggled skirts , and mud . 
Mr Arthur Clennam took up his hat and buttoned his coat , and walked out . 
In the country , the rain would have developed a thousand fresh scents , and every drop would have had its bright association with some beautiful form of growth or life . 
In the city , it developed only foul stale smells , and was a sickly , lukewarm , dirt stained , wretched addition to the gutters . 
between the river and Cheapside . 
An old brick house , so dingy as to be all but black , standing by itself within a gateway . 
as the iron railings enclosing them were rusty behind it , a jumble of roots . 
It was a double house , with long , narrow , heavily framed windows . 
'Nothing changed , said the traveller , stopping to look round . 
'Dark and miserable as ever . 
A light in my mother's window , which seems never to have been extinguished since I came home twice a year from school , and dragged my box over this pavement . 
A shuffling step was soon heard on the stone floor of the hall , and the door was opened by an old man , bent and dried , but with keen eyes . 
He had a candle in his hand , and he held it up for a moment to assist his keen eyes . 
'Ah , Mr Arthur ? he said , without any emotion , 'you are come at last ? Step in . 
Mr Arthur stepped in and shut the door . 
'How is my mother ? 'She is as she always is now . 
Keeps her room when not actually bedridden , and hasn't been out of it fifteen times in as many years , Arthur . 
They had walked into a spare , meagre dining room . 
The old man had put the candlestick upon the table , and , supporting his right elbow with his left hand , was smoothing his leathern jaws while he looked at the visitor . 
The visitor offered his hand . 
The old man took it coldly enough , and seemed to prefer his jaws , to which he returned as soon as he could . 
'I doubt if your mother will approve of your coming home on the Sabbath , Arthur , he said , shaking his head warily . 
'You wouldn't have me go away again ? 'Oh ! I ? I ? I am not the master . 
It's not what I would have . 
I have stood between your father and mother for a number of years . 
I don't pretend to stand between your mother and you . 
'Will you tell her that I have come home ? 'Yes , Arthur , yes . 
Oh , to be sure ! I'll tell her that you have come home . 
You won't find the room changed . 
He took another candle from a cupboard , lighted it , left the first on the table , and went upon his errand . 
He was a short , bald old man , in a high shouldered black coat and waistcoat , drab breeches , and long drab gaiters . 
He might , from his dress , have been either clerk or servant , and in fact had long been both . 
He not only could , but did . 
It was the momentary yielding of a nature that had been disappointed from the dawn of its perceptions , but had not quite given up all its hopeful yearnings yet . 
He subdued it , took up the candle , and examined the room . 
But here was the old man come back , saying , 'Arthur , I'll go before and light you . 
She and his father had been at variance from his earliest remembrance . 
To sit speechless himself in the midst of rigid silence , glancing in dread from the one averted face to the other , had been the peacefullest occupation of his childhood . 
She gave him one glassy kiss , and four stiff fingers muffled in worsted . 
This embrace concluded , he sat down on the opposite side of her little table . 
There was a fire in the grate , as there had been night and day for fifteen years . 
There was a kettle on the hob , as there had been night and day for fifteen years . 
'Mother , this is a change from your old active habits . 
'The world has narrowed to these dimensions , Arthur , she rep lied , glancing round the room . 
'It is well for me that I never set my heart upon its hollow vanities . 
I never leave my room . 
I have not been outside this door for tell him for how long , she said , speaking over her shoulder . 
'A dozen year next Christmas , returned a cracked voice out of the dimness behind . 
'Is that Affery ? said Arthur , looking towards it . 
The cracked voice replied that it was Affery and an old woman came forward into what doubtful light there was , and kissed her hand once then subsided again into the dimness . 
It is a great privilege . 
But no more of business on this day . 
It is a bad night , is it not ? 'Yes , mother . 
'Does it snow ? 'Snow , mother ? And we only yet in September ? 'All seasons are alike to me , she returned , with a grim kind of luxuriousness . 
'I know nothing of summer and winter , shut up here . 
The Lord has been pleased to put me beyond all that . 
On her little table lay two or three books , her handkerchief , a pair of steel spectacles newly taken off , and an old fashioned gold watch in a heavy double case . 
Upon this last object her son's eyes and her own now rested together . 
'I see that you received the packet I sent you on my father's death , safely , mother . 
'I never knew my father to show so much anxiety on any subject , as that his watch should be sent straight to you . 
'I keep it here as a remembrance of your father . 
'It was not until the last , that he expressed the wish when he could only put his hand upon it , and very indistinctly say to me your mother . 
'Was your father , then , not wandering in his mind when he tried to open it ? 'No . 
He was quite sensible at that time . 
Mrs Clennam shook her head whether in dismissal of the deceased or opposing herself to her son's opinion , was not clearly expressed . 
'After my father's death I opened it myself , thinking there might be , for anything I knew , some memorandum there . 
in its place between the cases , where I found and left it . 
Mrs Clennam signified assent then added , 'No more of business on this day , and then added , 'Affery , it is nine o'clock . 
, a lemon , a sugar basin , and a spice box . 
With these materials and the aid of the kettle , he filled a tumbler with a hot and odorous mixture , measured out and compounded with as much nicety as a physician's prescription . 
Into this mixture Mrs Clennam dipped certain of the rusks , and ate them while the old woman buttered certain other of the rusks , which were to be eaten alone . 
She shut the book and remained for a little time with her face shaded by her hand . 
So did the old man , otherwise still unchanged in attitude so , probably , did the old woman in her dimmer part of the room . 
Then the sick woman was ready for bed . 
Affery will see to your accommodation . 
Only touch me , for my hand is tender . 
The latter asked him , when they were alone together among the heavy shadows of the dining room , would he have some supper ? 'No , Affery , no supper . 
'You shall if you like , said Affery . 
'There's her tomorrow's partridge in the larder her first this year say the word and I'll cook it . 
No , he had not long dined , and could eat nothing . 
'Have something to drink , then , said Affery 'you shall have some of her bottle of port , if you like . 
I'll tell Jeremiah that you ordered me to bring it you . 
No nor would he have that , either . 
'It's no reason , Arthur , said the old woman , bending over him to whisper , 'that because I am afeared of my life of 'em , you should be . 
You've got half the property , haven't you ? 'Yes , yes . 
'Well then , don't you be cowed . 
You're clever , Arthur , an't you ? He nodded , as she seemed to expect an answer in the affirmative . 
'Then stand up against them ! She's awful clever , and none but a clever one durst say a word to her . 
My husband , Jeremiah Flintwinch , can conquer even your mother . 
What can he be but a clever one to do that ! His shuffling footstep coming towards them caused her to retreat to the other end of the room . 
'Very well , then , said the old man 'make his bed . 
'You'll have bitter words together to morrow , Arthur you and your mother , said Jeremiah . 
'Your having given up the business on your father's death which she suspects , though we have left it to you to tell her won't go off smoothly . 
'I have given up everything in life for the business , and the time came for me to give up that . 
'Good ! cried Jeremiah , evidently meaning Bad . 
'Very good ! only don't expect me to stand between your mother and you , Arthur . 
I stood between your mother and your father , fending off this , and fending off that , and getting crushed and pounded betwixt em and I've done with such work . 
'You will never be asked to begin it again for me , Jeremiah . 
I'm glad to hear it because I should have had to decline it , if I had been . 
That's enough as your mother says and more than enough of such matters on a Sabbath night . 
Arthur Clennam helped her by carrying the load himself , wished the old man good night , and went up stairs with her to the top of the house . 
They mounted up and up , through the musty smell of an old close house , little used , to a large garret bed room . 
Meagre and spare , like all the other rooms , it was even uglier and grimmer than the rest , by being the place of banishment for the worn out furniture . 
He drew in his head again , sat down at the bedside , and looked on at Affery Flintwinch making the bed . 
'Affery , you were not married when I went away . 
She screwed her mouth into the form of saying 'No , shook her head , and proceeded to get a pillow into its case . 
'How did it happen ? 'Why , Jeremiah , o' course , said Affery , with an end of the pillow case between her teeth . 
'No more should I , said Mrs Flintwinch , tying the pillow tightly in its case . 
When did you begin to think otherwise ? 'Never begun to think otherwise at all , said Mrs Flintwinch . 
'It was no doing o' mine . 
I'D never thought of it . 
when she could go about , and she could go about then . 
'Well ? 'Well ? echoed Mrs Flintwinch . 
'That's what I said myself . 
Well ! What's the use of considering ? If them two clever ones have made up their minds to it , what's left for me to do ? Nothing . 
'Was it my mother's project , then ? 'The Lord bless you , Arthur , and forgive me the wish ! cried Affery , speaking always in a low tone . 
He said to me one day , he said , Affery , he said , now I am going to tell you something . 
What do you think of the name of Flintwinch ? What do I think of it ? I says . 
Yes , he said , because you're going to take it , he said . 
Take it ? I says . 
'Well ? said Arthur again . 
'Well ? echoed Mrs Flintwinch again . 
'How could I help myself ? He said to me , Affery , you and me must be married , and I'll tell you why . 
She's of my opinion , he said , so if you'll put your bonnet on next Monday morning at eight , we'll get it over . 
Mrs Flintwinch tucked up the bed . 
'Well ? 'Well ? repeated Mrs Flintwinch , 'I think so ! I sits me down and says it . 
, is my reason for naming Monday . 
She'll speak to you about it herself , and now she'll find you prepared , Affery . 
That same day she spoke to me , and she said , So , Affery , I understand that you and Jeremiah are going to be married . 
I am glad of it , and so are you , with reason . 
It is a very good thing for you , and very welcome under the circumstances to me . 
He is a sensible man , and a trustworthy man , and a persevering man , and a pious man . 
'In good faith , I believe so . 
'And so you may , Arthur . 
'Affery , what girl was that in my mother's room just now ? 'Girl ? said Mrs Flintwinch in a rather sharp key . 
'It was a girl , surely , whom I saw near you almost hidden in the dark corner ? 'Oh ! She ? Little Dorrit ? She's nothing she's a whim of hers . 
It was a peculiarity of Affery Flintwinch that she never spoke of Mrs Clennam by name . 
'But there's another sort of girls than that about . 
Have you forgot your old sweetheart ? Long and long ago , I'll be bound . 
'I suffered enough from my mother's separating us , to remember her . 
I recollect her very well . 
'Have you got another ? 'No . 
'Here's news for you , then . 
She's well to do now , and a widow . 
And if you like to have her , why you can . 
'And how do you know that , Affery ? 'Them two clever ones have been speaking about it . 
There's Jeremiah on the stairs ! She was gone in a moment . 
CHAPTER Mrs Flintwinch has a Dream When Mrs Flintwinch dreamed , she usually dreamed , unlike the son of her old mistress , with her eyes shut . 
She had a curiously vivid dream that night , and before she had left the son of her old mistress many hours . 
In fact it was not at all like a dream it was so very real in every respect . 
It happened in this wise . 
The bed chamber occupied by Mr and Mrs Flintwinch was within a few paces of that to which Mrs Clennam had been so long confined . 
At the head of the bed and within a foot of Mrs Flintwinch's ear , was a bell , the line of which hung ready to Mrs Clennam's hand . 
Whenever this bell rang , up started Affery , and was in the sick room before she was awake . 
Having got her mistress into bed , lighted her lamp , and given her good night , Mrs Flintwinch went to roost as usual , saving that her lord had not yet appeared . 
It was her lord himself who became unlike the last theme in the mind , according to the observation of most philosophers the subject of Mrs Flintwinch's dream . 
It seemed to her that she awoke after sleeping some hours , and found Jeremiah not yet abed . 
That she arose thereupon , muffled herself up in a wrapper , put on her shoes , and went out on the staircase , much surprised , to look for Jeremiah . 
The staircase was as wooden and solid as need be , and Affery went straight down it without any of those deviations peculiar to dreams . 
She did not skim over it , but walked down it , and guided herself by the banisters on account of her candle having died out . 
In this room , which was never used , a light was burning . 
Mrs Flintwinch crossed the hall , feeling its pavement cold to her stockingless feet , and peeped in between the rusty hinges on the door , which stood a little open . 
She expected to see Jeremiah fast asleep or in a fit , but he was calmly seated in a chair , awake , and in his usual health . 
But what hey ? Lord forgive us ! Mrs Flintwinch muttered some ejaculation to this effect , and turned giddy . 
For , Mr Flintwinch awake , was watching Mr Flintwinch asleep . 
He sat on one side of the small table , looking keenly at himself on the other side with his chin sunk on his breast , snoring . 
The waking Flintwinch had his full front face presented to his wife the sleeping Flintwinch was in profile . 
The waking Flintwinch was the old original the sleeping Flintwinch was the double . 
just as she might have distinguished between a tangible object and its reflection in a glass , Affery made out this difference with her head going round and round . 
If she had had any doubt which was her own Jeremiah , it would have been resolved by his impatience . 
'Who's that ? What's the matter ? cried the sleeper , starting . 
'You have been asleep , snarled Jeremiah , referring to his watch , 'two hours . 
You said you would be rested enough if you had a short nap . 
'I have had a short nap , said Double . 
'Half past two o'clock in the morning , muttered Jeremiah . 
'Where's your hat ? Where's your coat ? Where's the box ? 'All here , said Double , tying up his throat with sleepy carefulness in a shawl . 
Now give me the sleeve not that sleeve , the other one . 
Ha ! I'm not as young as I was . 
Mr Flintwinch had pulled him into his coat with vehement energy . 
'You promised me a second glass after I was rested . 
'Drink it ! returned Jeremiah , 'and choke yourself , I was going to say but go , I mean . 
'At the same time he produced the identical port wine bottle , and filled a wine glass . 
'Her port wine , I believe ? said Double , tasting it as if he were in the Docks , with hours to spare . 
'Your health ! He took another sip . 
'His health ! He took another sip . 
'And all friends round St Paul's . 
He emptied and put down the wine glass half way through this ancient civic toast , and took up the box . 
It was an iron box some two feet square , which he carried under his arms pretty easily . 
Affery , anticipating the last movement , was on the staircase . 
The sequence of things was so ordinary and natural , that , standing there , she could hear the door open , feel the night air , and see the stars outside . 
But now came the most remarkable part of the dream . 
, but stood there staring . 
Consequently when he came up the staircase to bed , candle in hand , he came full upon her . 
He looked astonished , but said not a word . 
He kept his eyes upon her , and kept advancing and she , completely under his influence , kept retiring before him . 
Thus , she walking backward and he walking forward , they came into their own room . 
They were no sooner shut in there , than Mr Flintwinch took her by the throat , and shook her until she was black in the face . 
'Why , Affery , woman Affery ! said Mr Flintwinch . 
'What have you been dreaming of ? Wake up , wake up ! What's the matter ? 'The the matter , Jeremiah ? gasped Mrs Flintwinch , rolling her eyes . 
And I'll give you such a dose , old woman such a dose ! Mrs Flintwinch thanked him and crept into bed . 
CHAPTER Family Affairs As the city clocks struck nine on Monday morning , Mrs Clennam was wheeled by Jeremiah Flintwinch of the cut down aspect to her tall cabinet . 
When she had unlocked and opened it , and had settled herself at its desk , Jeremiah withdrew as it might be , to hang himself more effectually and her son appeared . 
'Are you any better this morning , mother ? She shook her head , with the same austere air of luxuriousness that she had shown over night when speaking of the weather . 
'I shall never be better any more . 
It is well for me , Arthur , that I know it and can bear it . 
Sitting with her hands laid separately upon the desk , and the tall cabinet towering before her , she looked as if she were performing on a dumb church organ . 
, while he took his seat beside it . 
She opened a drawer or two , looked over some business papers , and put them back again . 
Her severe face had no thread of relaxation in it , by which any explorer could have been guided to the gloomy labyrinth of her thoughts . 
I have been at your disposal , and waiting your pleasure , ever since . 
'There was much to arrange before I could leave and when I did leave , I travelled a little for rest and relief . 
She turned her face towards him , as not having heard or understood his last words . 
'The accounts are made out , she returned . 
The vouchers have all been examined and passed . 
You can inspect them when you like , Arthur now , if you please . 
'It is quite enough , mother , to know that the business is completed . 
Shall I proceed then ? 'Why not ? she said , in her frozen way . 
'Mother , our House has done less and less for some years past , and our dealings have been progressively on the decline . 
I need not dwell on this to you , mother . 
'I know what you mean , she answered , in a qualified tone . 
'Even this old house in which we speak , pursued her son , 'is an instance of what I say . 
In my father's earlier time , and in his uncle's time before him , it was a place of business really a place of business , and business resort . 
Now , it is a mere anomaly and incongruity here , out of date and out of purpose . 
'With what object ? 'I am coming to it . 
'I foresee , she returned , fixing her eyes upon him , 'what it is . 
But the Lord forbid that I should repine under any visitation . 
In my sinfulness I merit bitter disappointment , and I accept it . 
'Mother , I grieve to hear you speak like this , though I have had my apprehensions that you would 'You knew I would . 
You knew ME , she interrupted . 
Her son paused for a moment . 
He had struck fire out of her , and was surprised . 
'Well ! she said , relapsing into stone . 
'You have anticipated , mother , that I decide for my part , to abandon the business . 
I have done with it . 
I will not take upon myself to advise you you will continue it , I see . 
Woe to the suppliant , if such a one there were or ever had been , who had any concession to look for in the inexorable face at the cabinet . 
Woe to the defaulter whose appeal lay to the tribunal where those severe eyes presided . 
Great need had the rigid woman of her mystical religion , veiled in gloom and darkness , with lightnings of cursing , vengeance , and destruction , flashing through the sable clouds . 
Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors , was a prayer too poor in spirit for her . 
'Have you finished , Arthur , or have you anything more to say to me ? I think there can be nothing else . 
You have been short , but full of matter ! 'Mother , I have yet something more to say . 
It has been upon my mind , night and day , this long time . 
It is far more difficult to say than what I have said . 
That concerned myself this concerns us all . 
'Us all ! Who are us all ? 'Yourself , myself , my dead father . 
She took her hands from the desk folded them in her lap and sat looking towards the fire , with the impenetrability of an old Egyptian sculpture . 
'You knew my father infinitely better than I ever knew him and his reserve with me yielded to you . 
You were much the stronger , mother , and directed him . 
As a child , I knew it as well as I know it now . 
and that it was your will that I should remain with you until I was twenty , and then go to him as I did . 
You will not be offended by my recalling this , after twenty years ? 'I am waiting to hear why you recall it . 
But I cannot shake it off . 
do nothing to wear it out . 
Remember , I was with my father . 
Remember , I saw his face when he gave the watch into my keeping , and struggled to express that he sent it as a token you would understand , to you . 
The more remote and cruel this vague suspicion that I have , the stronger the circumstances that could give it any semblance of probability to me . 
For Heaven's sake , let us examine sacredly whether there is any wrong entrusted to us to set right . 
No one can help towards it , mother , but you . 
You were the moving power of all this machinery before my birth your stronger spirit has been infused into all my father's dealings for more than two score years . 
You can set these doubts at rest , I think , if you will really help me to discover the truth . 
Will you , mother ? He stopped in the hope that she would speak . 
But her grey hair was not more immovable in its two folds , than were her firm lips . 
'If reparation can be made to any one , if restitution can be made to any one , let us know it and make it . 
Nay , mother , if within my means , let ME make it . 
There was a bell rope hanging on the panelled wall , some two or three yards from the cabinet . 
A girl came hurrying in , frightened . 
'Send Flintwinch here ! In a moment the girl had withdrawn , and the old man stood within the door . 
'What ! You're hammer and tongs , already , you two ? he said , coolly stroking his face . 
'I thought you would be . 
I was pretty sure of it . 
'Flintwinch ! said the mother , 'look at my son . 
Look at him ! 'Well , I AM looking at him , said Flintwinch . 
She stretched out the arm with which she had shielded herself , and as she went on , pointed at the object of her anger . 
She also spoke with great distinctness . 
'Yes , truly ! It is easy for him to talk of reparation , fresh from journeying and junketing in foreign lands , and living a life of vanity and pleasure . 
But let him look at me , in prison , and in bonds here . 
I endure without murmuring , because it is appointed that I shall so make reparation for my sins . 
She was only remarkable in this , for the force and emphasis with which she did it . 
Thousands upon thousands do it , according to their varying manner , every day . 
'Flintwinch , give me that book ! The old man handed it to her from the table . 
She put two fingers between the leaves , closed the book upon them , and held it up to her son in a threatening way . 
I will never see or know you more . 
by a general impression that it was in some sort a religious proceeding , she handed back the book to the old man , and was silent . 
what is all this about ? 'Take your version of it , returned Arthur , finding it left to him to speak , 'from my mother . 
What I have said , was said to my mother only . 
'Oh ! returned the old man . 
'From your mother ? Take it from your mother ? Well ! But your mother mentioned that you had been suspecting your father . 
That's not dutiful , Mr Arthur . 
Who will you be suspecting next ? 'Enough , said Mrs Clennam , turning her face so that it was addressed for the moment to the old man only . 
'Let no more be said about this . 
'Yes , but stop a bit , stop a bit , the old man persisted . 
'Let us see how we stand . 
'Ah ! Exactly , said the old man . 
'You tell him so now . 
You hadn't told him so before , and you tell him so now . 
So I will , and so in fairness I require to have that plainly put forward . 
Arthur , you please to hear that you have no right to mistrust your father , and have no ground to go upon . 
He put his hands to the back of the wheeled chair , and muttering to himself , slowly wheeled his mistress back to her cabinet . 
'In favour of nobody , I suppose ? Mrs Clennam glanced at her son , leaning against one of the windows . 
He observed the look and said , 'To my mother , of course . 
She does what she pleases . 
Jeremiah , the captain deserts the ship , but you and I will sink or float with it . 
Finally , he hauled up his watch from its depths , and said , 'Eleven . 
Time for your oysters ! and with that change of subject , which involved no change of expression or manner , rang the bell . 
But Mrs Clennam , resolved to treat herself with the greater rigour for having been supposed to be unacquainted with reparation , refused to eat her oysters when they were brought . 
A woman , probably of not less than two and twenty , she might have been passed in the street for little more than half that age . 
Little Dorrit let herself out to do needlework . 
At so much a day or at so little from eight to eight , Little Dorrit was to be hired . 
Punctual to the moment , Little Dorrit appeared punctual to the moment , Little Dorrit vanished . 
What became of Little Dorrit between the two eights was a mystery . 
Another of the moral phenomena of Little Dorrit . 
Besides her consideration money , her daily contract included meals . 
She had an extraordinary repugnance to dining in company would never do so , if it were possible to escape . 
It was not easy to make out Little Dorrit's face she was so retiring , plied her needle in such removed corners , and started away so scared if encountered on the stairs . 
But it seemed to be a pale transparent face , quick in expression , though not beautiful in feature , its soft hazel eyes excepted . 
For these particulars or generalities concerning Little Dorrit , Mr Arthur was indebted in the course of the day to his own eyes and to Mrs Affery's tongue . 
If Mrs Affery had had any will or way of her own , it would probably have been unfavourable to Little Dorrit . 
Similarly , if the two clever ones had agreed to murder Little Dorrit by candlelight , Mrs Affery , being required to hold the candle , would no doubt have done it . 
It appeared to have become a perfect passion with Mrs Flintwinch , that the only son should be pitted against them . 
In the course of the day , too , Arthur looked through the whole house . 
Dull and dark he found it . 
The gaunt rooms , deserted for years upon years , seemed to have settled down into a gloomy lethargy from which nothing could rouse them again . 
Mr Flintwinch informed him that his mother had recovered her equanimity now , and that he need not fear her again alluding to what had passed in the morning . 
'And don't you lay offences at your father's door , Mr Arthur , added Jeremiah , 'once for all , don't do it ! Now , we have done with the subject . 
Mr Flintwinch had been already rearranging and dusting his own particular little office , as if to do honour to his accession to new dignity . 
'Now , Affery , woman , said Mr Flintwinch , as she crossed the hall . 
'You hadn't made Mr Arthur's bed when I was up there last . 
to mortal disfigurement and immortal ruin , that he announced his intention of lodging at the coffee house where he had left his luggage . 
Sometimes Little Dorrit was employed at her needle , sometimes not , sometimes appeared as a humble visitor which must have been her character on the occasion of his arrival . 
His original curiosity augmented every day , as he watched for her , saw or did not see her , and speculated about her . 
Influenced by his predominant idea , he even fell into a habit of discussing with himself the possibility of her being in some way associated with it . 
At last he resolved to watch Little Dorrit and know more of her story . 
It had stood there many years before , and it remained there some years afterwards but it is gone now , and the world is none the worse without it . 
Itself a close and confined prison for debtors , it contained within it a much closer and more confined jail for smugglers . 
Supposed to be incarcerated there , because the time had rather outgrown the strong cells and the blind alley . 
, except at certain constitutional moments when somebody came from some Office , to go through some form of overlooking something which neither he nor anybody else knew anything about . 
He was , at that time , a very amiable and very helpless middle aged gentleman , who was going out again directly . 
Necessarily , he was going out again directly , because the Marshalsea lock never turned upon a debtor who was not . 
His principal anxiety was about his wife . 
In general , more no than yes . 
'What like is she , you see ? he philosophically asked 'that's what it hinges on . 
'She is very delicate and inexperienced indeed . 
'That , said the turnkey , 'is agen her . 
'P'raps , quoth the turnkey , 'she'll take a ackney coach . 
The irresolute fingers went to the trembling lip . 
She may not think of it . 
'She has no brother or sister . 
'Niece , nevy , cousin , serwant , young 'ooman , greengrocer . 
Dash it ! One or another on 'em , said the turnkey , repudiating beforehand the refusal of all his suggestions . 
'I fear I hope it is not against the rules that she will bring the children . 
'The children ? said the turnkey . 
'And the rules ? Why , lord set you up like a corner pin , we've a reg'lar playground o' children here . 
Children ! Why we swarm with 'em . 
How many a you got ? 'Two , said the debtor , lifting his irresolute hand to his lip again , and turning into the prison . 
The turnkey followed him with his eyes . 
'And you another , he observed to himself , 'which makes three on you . 
And your wife another , I'll lay a crown . 
Which makes four on you . 
And another coming , I'll lay half a crown . 
Which'll make five on you . 
And I'll go another seven and sixpence to name which is the helplessest , the unborn baby or you ! He was right in all his particulars . 
She came next day with a little boy of three years old , and a little girl of two , and he stood entirely corroborated . 
'Got a room now haven't you ? the turnkey asked the debtor after a week or two . 
'Yes , I have got a very good room . 
'Any little sticks a coming to furnish it ? said the turnkey . 
'I expect a few necessary articles of furniture to be delivered by the carrier , this afternoon . 
'Missis and little 'uns a coming to keep you company ? asked the turnkey . 
'Why , yes , we think it better that we should not be scattered , even for a few weeks . 
'Even for a few weeks , OF course , replied the turnkey . 
And he followed him again with his eyes , and nodded his head seven times when he was gone . 
The irresolute fingers fluttered more and more ineffectually about the trembling lip on every such occasion , and the sharpest practitioners gave him up as a hopeless job . 
'Out ? said the turnkey , 'he'll never get out , unless his creditors take him by the shoulders and shove him out . 
He had been there five or six months , when he came running to this turnkey one forenoon to tell him , breathless and pale , that his wife was ill . 
'As anybody might a known she would be , said the turnkey . 
'We intended , he returned , 'that she should go to a country lodging only to morrow . 
Upon which door the turnkey knocked with the handle of his key . 
'Come in ! cried a voice inside . 
, the dirtiest white trousers conceivable by mortal man , carpet slippers , and no visible linen . 
'Childbed ? said the doctor . 
The doctor and the debtor ran down stairs , leaving the turnkey to return to the lock , and made for the debtor's room . 
All the ladies in the prison had got hold of the news , and were in the yard . 
It was a hot summer day , and the prison rooms were baking between the high walls . 
, but was the popular medium of communication with the outer world , had volunteered her services as fly catcher and general attendant . 
The walls and ceiling were blackened with flies . 
'The flies trouble you , don't they , my dear ? said Mrs Bangham . 
'But p'raps they'll take your mind off of it , and do you good . 
What between the buryin ground , the grocer's , the waggon stables , and the paunch trade , the Marshalsea flies gets very large . 
P'raps they're sent as a consolation , if we only know'd it . 
And you a crying too ? said Mrs Bangham , to rally the patient more and more . 
The special feature in Dr Haggage's treatment of the case , was his determination to keep Mrs Bangham up to the mark . 
As thus 'Mrs Bangham , said the doctor , before he had been there twenty minutes , 'go outside and fetch a little brandy , or we shall have you giving in . 
But none on my accounts , said Mrs Bangham . 
'Mrs Bangham , returned the doctor , 'I am in professional attendance on this lady , and don't choose to allow any discussion on your part . 
Go outside and fetch a little brandy , or I foresee that you'll break down . 
'You're to be obeyed , sir , said Mrs Bangham , rising . 
'If you was to put your own lips to it , I think you wouldn't be the worse , for you look but poorly , sir . 
'Mrs Bangham , returned the doctor , 'I am not your business , thank you , but you are mine . 
Never you mind ME , if you please . 
What you have got to do , is , to do as you are told , and to go and get what I bid you . 
Mrs Bangham submitted and the doctor , having administered her potion , took his own . 
He repeated the treatment every hour , being very determined with Mrs Bangham . 
Three or four hours passed the flies fell into the traps by hundreds and at length one little life , hardly stronger than theirs , appeared among the multitude of lesser deaths . 
'A very nice little girl indeed , said the doctor 'little , but well formed . 
Halloa , Mrs Bangham ! You're looking queer ! You be off , ma'am , this minute , and fetch a little more brandy , or we shall have you in hysterics . 
By this time , the rings had begun to fall from the debtor's irresolute hands , like leaves from a wintry tree . 
Not one was left upon them that night , when he put something that chinked into the doctor's greasy palm . 
In the meantime Mrs Bangham had been out on an errand to a neighbouring establishment decorated with three golden balls , where she was very well known . 
'Thank you , said the doctor , 'thank you . 
Your good lady is quite composed . 
'Bah , bah , sir , what does it signify ? A little more elbow room is all we want here . 
We are quiet here we don't get badgered here there's no knocker here , sir , to be hammered at by creditors and bring a man's heart into his mouth . 
Nobody comes here to ask if a man's at home , and to say he'll stand on the door mat till he is . 
Nobody writes threatening letters about money to this place . 
Elsewhere , people are restless , worried , hurried about , anxious respecting one thing , anxious respecting another . 
Nothing of the kind here , sir . 
We have done all that we know the worst of it we have got to the bottom , we can't fall , and what have we found ? Peace . 
That's the word for it . 
Now , the debtor was a very different man from the doctor , but he had already begun to travel , by his opposite segment of the circle , to the same point . 
Crushed at first by his imprisonment , he had soon found a dull relief in it . 
He was under lock and key but the lock and key that kept him in , kept numbers of his troubles out . 
He had unpacked the portmanteau long ago and his elder children now played regularly about the yard , and everybody knew the baby , and claimed a kind of proprietorship in her . 
'Why , I'm getting proud of you , said his friend the turnkey , one day . 
'You'll be the oldest inhabitant soon . 
The Marshalsea wouldn't be like the Marshalsea now , without you and your family . 
The turnkey really was proud of him . 
He would mention him in laudatory terms to new comers , when his back was turned . 
'You took notice of him , he would say , 'that went out of the lodge just now ? New comer would probably answer Yes . 
'Brought up as a gentleman , he was , if ever a man was . 
Ed'cated at no end of expense . 
Went into the Marshal's house once to try a new piano for him . 
Played it , I understand , like one o'clock beautiful ! As to languages speaks anything . 
We've had a Frenchman here in his time , and it's my opinion he knowed more French than the Frenchman did . 
We've had an Italian here in his time , and he shut him up in about half a minute . 
You'll find some characters behind other locks , I don't say you won't but if you want the top sawyer in such respects as I've mentioned , you must come to the Marshalsea . 
and the turnkey noticed that his hands went often to his trembling lips again , as they had used to do when he first came in . 
But he got pretty well over it in a month or two and in the meantime the children played about the yard as regularly as ever , but in black . 
His son began to supersede Mrs Bangham , and to execute commissions in a knowing manner , and to be of the prison prisonous , of the streets streety . 
Time went on , and the turnkey began to fail . 
His chest swelled , and his legs got weak , and he was short of breath . 
The well worn wooden stool was 'beyond him , he complained . 
He sat in an arm chair with a cushion , and sometimes wheezed so , for minutes together , that he couldn't turn the key . 
When he was overpowered by these fits , the debtor often turned it for him . 
'You and me , said the turnkey , one snowy winter's night when the lodge , with a bright fire in it , was pretty full of company , 'is the oldest inhabitants . 
I wasn't here myself above seven year before you . 
When I'm off the lock for good and all , you'll be the Father of the Marshalsea . 
The turnkey went off the lock of this world next day . 
And he grew to be proud of the title . 
If any impostor had arisen to claim it , he would have shed tears in resentment of the attempt to deprive him of his rights . 
All new comers were presented to him . 
He was punctilious in the exaction of this ceremony . 
The wits would perform the office of introduction with overcharged pomp and politeness , but they could not easily overstep his sense of its gravity . 
, with a kind of bowed down beneficence . 
They were welcome to the Marshalsea , he would tell them . 
Yes , he was the Father of the place . 
So the world was kind enough to call him and so he was , if more than twenty years of residence gave him a claim to the title . 
It looked small at first , but there was very good company there among a mixture necessarily a mixture and very good air . 
'With the compliments of a collegian taking leave . 
He received the gifts as tributes , from admirers , to a public character . 
'Me ? he would say , with a smile . 
'My good sir , he would rejoin , 'he is infinitely obliged to you . 
The man was a mere Plasterer in his working dress had his wife with him , and a bundle and was in high spirits . 
'God bless you , sir , he said in passing . 
'And you , benignantly returned the Father of the Marshalsea . 
They were pretty far divided , going their several ways , when the Plasterer called out , 'I say ! sir ! and came back to him . 
'It ain't much , said the Plasterer , putting a little pile of halfpence in his hand , 'but it's well meant . 
The Father of the Marshalsea had never been offered tribute in copper yet . 
'How dare you ! he said to the man , and feebly burst into tears . 
'Bless your soul , sir , urged the Plasterer , 'I did indeed . 
I'd do more by you than the rest of 'em do , I fancy . 
'What would you do ? he asked . 
'I'd come back to see you , after I was let out . 
'Give me the money again , said the other , eagerly , 'and I'll keep it , and never spend it . 
Thank you for it , thank you ! I shall see you again ? 'If I live a week you shall . 
They shook hands and parted . 
'By rights , remarked the turnkey when she was first shown to him , 'I ought to be her godfather . 
This invested the turnkey with a new proprietary share in the child , over and above his former official one . 
The child , for her part , soon grew so fond of the turnkey that she would come climbing up the lodge steps of her own accord at all hours of the day . 
Witnessing these things , the collegians would express an opinion that the turnkey , who was a bachelor , had been cut out by nature for a family man . 
But the turnkey thanked them , and said , 'No , on the whole it was enough to see other people's children there . 
A pitiful and plaintive look , with which she had begun to regard him when she was still extremely young , was perhaps a part of this discovery . 
'Thinking of the fields , the turnkey said once , after watching her , 'ain't you ? 'Where are they ? she inquired . 
'Why , they're over there , my dear , said the turnkey , with a vague flourish of his key . 
'Does anybody open them , and shut them ? Are they locked ? The turnkey was discomfited . 
'Are they very pretty , Bob ? She called him Bob , by his own particular request and instruction . 
There's buttercups , and there's daisies , and there's' the turnkey hesitated , being short of floral nomenclature 'there's dandelions , and all manner of games . 
'Is it very pleasant to be there , Bob ? 'Prime , said the turnkey . 
'Was father ever there ? 'Hem ! coughed the turnkey . 
'O yes , he was there , sometimes . 
'Is he sorry not to be there now ? 'N not particular , said the turnkey . 
'Nor any of the people ? she asked , glancing at the listless crowd within . 
But this was the origin of a series of Sunday excursions that these two curious companions made together . 
In those early days , the turnkey first began profoundly to consider a question which cost him so much mental labour , that it remained undetermined on the day of his death . 
'But look here , quoth the turnkey . 
'Stop a bit , said the turnkey . 
'Supposing she was tender hearted , and they came over her . 
Where's your law for tying it up then ? The deepest character whom the turnkey sounded , was unable to produce his law for tying such a knot as that . 
So , the turnkey thought about it all his life , and died intestate after all . 
But that was long afterwards , when his god daughter was past sixteen . 
The first half of that space of her life was only just accomplished , when her pitiful and plaintive look saw her father a widower . 
At first , such a baby could do little more than sit with him , deserting her livelier place by the high fender , and quietly watching him . 
But this made her so far necessary to him that he became accustomed to her , and began to be sensible of missing her when she was not there . 
Through this little gate , she passed out of childhood into the care laden world . 
To these scanty means of improvement , she added another of her own contriving . 
Once , among the heterogeneous crowd of inmates there appeared a dancing master . 
Her sister had a great desire to learn the dancing master's art , and seemed to have a taste that way . 
At thirteen years old , the Child of the Marshalsea presented herself to the dancing master , with a little bag in her hand , and preferred her humble petition . 
'If you please , I was born here , sir . 
'Oh ! You are the young lady , are you ? said the dancing master , surveying the small figure and uplifted face . 
'And what can I do for you ? said the dancing master . 
He was as good natured a dancing master as ever danced to the Insolvent Court , and he kept his word . 
, that wonderful progress was made . 
The success of this beginning , which led to the dancing master's continuing his instruction after his release , emboldened the poor child to try again . 
She watched and waited months for a seamstress . 
In the fulness of time a milliner came in , and to her she repaired on her own behalf . 
'I beg your pardon , ma'am , she said , looking timidly round the door of the milliner , whom she found in tears and in bed 'but I was born here . 
'I am sorry I haven't got anything for you , said the milliner , shaking her head . 
'It's not that , ma'am . 
If you please I want to learn needle work . 
'Why should you do that , returned the milliner , 'with me before you ? It has not done me much good . 
'Nothing whatever it is seems to have done anybody much good who comes here , she returned in all simplicity 'but I want to learn just the same . 
'I am afraid you are so weak , you see , the milliner objected . 
'I don't think I am weak , ma'am . 
'And you are so very , very little , you see , the milliner objected . 
In course of time , and in the very self same course of time , the Father of the Marshalsea gradually developed a new flower of character . 
The more Fatherly he grew as to the Marshalsea , and the more dependent he became on the contributions of his changing family , the greater stand he made by his forlorn gentility . 
So , over and above other daily cares , the Child of the Marshalsea had always upon her the care of preserving the genteel fiction that they were all idle beggars together . 
The sister became a dancer . 
To enable this girl to earn her few weekly shillings , it was necessary for the Child of the Marshalsea to go through an elaborate form with the Father . 
'Fanny is not going to live with us just now , father . 
She will be here a good deal in the day , but she is going to live outside with uncle . 
Why ? 'I think uncle wants a companion , father . 
He should be attended to , and looked after . 
'A companion ? He passes much of his time here . 
And you attend to him and look after him , Amy , a great deal more than ever your sister will . 
You all go out so much you all go out so much . 
This was to keep up the ceremony and pretence of his having no idea that Amy herself went out by the day to work . 
She was not born here as I was , you know , father . 
'Well , Amy , well . 
I don't quite follow you , but it's natural I suppose that Fanny should prefer to be outside , and even that you often should , too . 
So , you and Fanny and your uncle , my dear , shall have your own way . 
I'll not meddle don't mind me . 
At eighteen he would have dragged on from hand to mouth , from hour to hour , from penny to penny , until eighty . 
Nobody got into the prison from whom he derived anything useful or good , and she could find no patron for him but her old friend and godfather . 
'Dear Bob , said she , 'what is to become of poor Tip ? His name was Edward , and Ted had been transformed into Tip , within the walls . 
But Tip had thanked him , and said he didn't seem to care for his country . 
'Well , my dear , said the turnkey , 'something ought to be done with him . 
'Not going back again ? said the poor little anxious Child of the Marshalsea , always calculating and planning for Tip , in the front rank of her charges . 
'I am so tired of it , said Tip , 'that I have cut it . 
But whatever Tip went into , he came out of tired , announcing that he had cut it . 
When he was tired of nothing to do , and disposed in its turn to cut even that , he graciously consented to go to Canada . 
And there was grief in her bosom over parting with him , and joy in the hope of his being put in a straight course at last . 
'God bless you , dear Tip . 
Don't be too proud to come and see us , when you have made your fortune . 
'All right ! said Tip , and went . 
But not all the way to Canada in fact , not further than Liverpool . 
After making the voyage to that port from London , he found himself so strongly impelled to cut the vessel , that he resolved to walk back again . 
Carrying out which intention , he presented himself before her at the expiration of a month , in rags , without shoes , and much more tired than ever . 
At length , after another interval of successorship to Mrs Bangham , he found a pursuit for himself , and announced it . 
'Amy , I have got a situation . 
'Have you really and truly , Tip ? 'All right . 
You needn't look anxious about me any more , old girl . 
'What is it , Tip ? 'Why , you know Slingo by sight ? 'Not the man they call the dealer ? 'That's the chap . 
He'll be out on Monday , and he's going to give me a berth . 
'What is he a dealer in , Tip ? 'Horses . 
All right ! I shall do now , Amy . 
She lost sight of him for months afterwards , and only heard from him once . 
One evening she was alone at work standing up at the window , to save the twilight lingering above the wall when he opened the door and walked in . 
She kissed and welcomed him but was afraid to ask him any questions . 
He saw how anxious and timid she was , and appeared sorry . 
'I am afraid , Amy , you'll be vexed this time . 
Upon my life I am ! 'I am very sorry to hear you say so , Tip . 
Have you come back ? 'Why yes . 
'Not expecting this time that what you had found would answer very well , I am less surprised and sorry than I might have been , Tip . 
'Ah ! But that's not the worst of it . 
'Not the worst of it ? 'Don't look so startled . 
No , Amy , not the worst of it . 
I have come back , you see but DON'T look so startled I have come back in what I may call a new way . 
I am off the volunteer list altogether . 
I am in now , as one of the regulars . 
For the first time in all those years , she sunk under her cares . 
She cried , with her clasped hands lifted above her head , that it would kill their father if he ever knew it and fell down at Tip's graceless feet . 
The thing was incomprehensible to Tip , and altogether a fanciful notion . 
He yielded to it in that light only , when he submitted to her entreaties , backed by those of his uncle and sister . 
This was the life , and this the history , of the child of the Marshalsea at twenty two . 
Her original timidity had grown with this concealment , and her light step and her little figure shunned the thronged streets while they passed along them . 
Worldly wise in hard and poor necessities , she was innocent in all things else . 
Innocent , in the mist through which she saw her father , and the prison , and the turbid living river that flowed through it and flowed on . 
This was the life , and this the history , of Little Dorrit now going home upon a dull September evening , observed at a distance by Arthur Clennam . 
CHAPTER The Lock Arthur Clennam stood in the street , waiting to ask some passer by what place that was . 
He stooped a good deal , and plodded along in a slow pre occupied manner , which made the bustling London thoroughfares no very safe resort for him . 
A greasy hat it was , and a napless impending over his eyes , cracked and crumpled at the brim , and with a wisp of pocket handkerchief dangling out below it . 
To this old man crossing the court yard , he preferred his inquiry , touching him on the shoulder . 
'This is the Marshalsea , sir . 
'The debtors' prison ? 'Sir , said the old man , with the air of deeming it not quite necessary to insist upon that designation , 'the debtors' prison . 
He turned himself about , and went on . 
'I beg you to excuse me . 
I am not impertinently curious , but have a good object . 
Do you know the name of Dorrit here ? 'My name , sir , replied the old man most unexpectedly , 'is Dorrit . 
Arthur pulled off his hat to him . 
'Grant me the favour of half a dozen words . 
I was wholly unprepared for your announcement , and hope that assurance is my sufficient apology for having taken the liberty of addressing you . 
I have recently come home to England after a long absence . 
I have seen at my mother's Mrs Clennam in the city a young woman working at her needle , whom I have only heard addressed or spoken of as Little Dorrit . 
I have felt sincerely interested in her , and have had a great desire to know something more about her . 
I saw her , not a minute before you came up , pass in at that door . 
The old man looked at him attentively . 
'Are you a sailor , sir ? he asked . 
He seemed a little disappointed by the shake of the head that replied to him . 
'Not a sailor ? I judged from your sunburnt face that you might be . 
Are you in earnest , sir ? 'I do assure you that I am , and do entreat you to believe that I am , in plain earnest . 
'I know very little of the world , sir , returned the other , who had a weak and quavering voice . 
'I am merely passing on , like the shadow over the sun dial . 
It would be worth no man's while to mislead me it would really be too easy too poor a success , to yield any satisfaction . 
The young woman whom you saw go in here is my brother's child . 
My brother is William Dorrit I am Frederick . 
, you have felt an interest in her , and you wish to know what she does here . 
He went on again , and Arthur accompanied him . 
Be so good as to say nothing of my niece's working at her needle . 
Be so good as to say nothing that goes beyond what is said among us . 
If you keep within our bounds , you cannot well be wrong . 
Now ! Come and see . 
Arthur followed him down a narrow entry , at the end of which a key was turned , and a strong door was opened from within . 
It admitted them into a lodge or lobby , across which they passed , and so through another door and a grating into the prison . 
The turnkey nodded and the companion passed in without being asked whom he wanted . 
A few people loitered about , but the greater part of the population was within doors . 
The old man , taking the right hand side of the yard , turned in at the third or fourth doorway , and began to ascend the stairs . 
'They are rather dark , sir , but you will not find anything in the way . 
He paused for a moment before opening a door on the second story . 
He had no sooner turned the handle than the visitor saw Little Dorrit , and saw the reason of her setting so much store by dining alone . 
A clean cloth was spread before him , with knife , fork , and spoon , salt cellar , pepper box , glass , and pewter ale pot . 
Such zests as his particular little phial of cayenne pepper and his pennyworth of pickles in a saucer , were not wanting . 
She started , coloured deeply , and turned white . 
The visitor , more with his eyes than by the slight impulsive motion of his hand , entreated her to be reassured and to trust him . 
This is my brother William , sir . 
'I hope , said Arthur , very doubtful what to say , 'that my respect for your daughter may explain and justify my desire to be presented to you , sir . 
You are welcome , sir with a low bow . 
Pray sit down , Mr Clennam . 
He put his black cap on again as he had taken it off , and resumed his own seat . 
There was a wonderful air of benignity and patronage in his manner . 
These were the ceremonies with which he received the collegians . 
'You are welcome to the Marshalsea , sir . 
I have welcomed many gentlemen to these walls . 
Perhaps you are aware my daughter Amy may have mentioned that I am the Father of this place . 
'I so I have understood , said Arthur , dashing at the assertion . 
'You know , I dare say , that my daughter Amy was born here . 
A good girl , sir , a dear girl , and long a comfort and support to me . 
Amy , my dear , put this dish on Mr Clennam will excuse the primitive customs to which we are reduced here . 
Is it a compliment to ask you if you would do me the honour , sir , to 'Thank you , returned Arthur . 
She filled his glass , put all the little matters on the table ready to his hand , and then sat beside him while he ate his supper . 
Evidently in observance of their nightly custom , she put some bread before herself , and touched his glass with her lips but Arthur saw she was troubled and took nothing . 
Her look at her father , half admiring him and proud of him , half ashamed for him , all devoted and loving , went to his inmost heart . 
The Father of the Marshalsea condescended towards his brother as an amiable , well meaning man a private character , who had not arrived at distinction . 
'Frederick , said he , 'you and Fanny sup at your lodgings to night , I know . 
What have you done with Fanny , Frederick ? 'She is walking with Tip . 
'Tip as you may know is my son , Mr Clennam . 
Your first visit here , sir ? 'my first . 
'You could hardly have been here since your boyhood without my knowledge . 
It very seldom happens that anybody of any pretensions any pretensions comes here without being presented to me . 
'As many as forty or fifty in a day have been introduced to my brother , said Frederick , faintly lighting up with a ray of pride . 
'Yes ! the Father of the Marshalsea assented . 
'We have even exceeded that number . 
On a fine Sunday in term time , it is quite a Levee quite a Levee . 
'I don't remember his name , father . 
'Frederick , do you remember his name ? Frederick doubted if he had ever heard it . 
No one could doubt that Frederick was the last person upon earth to put such a question to , with any hope of information . 
'I mean , said his brother , 'the gentleman who did that handsome action with so much delicacy . 
Ha ! Tush ! The name has quite escaped me . 
Mr Clennam , as I have happened to mention handsome and delicate action , you may like , perhaps , to know what it was . 
'Very much , said Arthur , withdrawing his eyes from the delicate head beginning to droop and the pale face with a new solicitude stealing over it . 
'It is so generous , and shows so much fine feeling , that it is almost a duty to mention it . 
I said at the time that I always would mention it on every suitable occasion , without regard to personal sensitiveness . 
To see her hand upon his arm in mute entreaty half repressed , and her timid little shrinking figure turning away , was to see a sad , sad sight . 
And it is , I cannot but confess it , it is too often hem acceptable . 
All this time , though he had finished his supper , he was nervously going about his plate with his knife and fork , as if some of it were still before him . 
'It appeared from his conversation that he had a garden , though he was delicate of mentioning it at first , as gardens are hem are not accessible to me . 
But it came out , through my admiring a very fine cluster of geranium beautiful cluster of geranium to be sure which he had brought from his conservatory . 
But this was hem not all . 
He made a particular request , on taking leave , that I would remove the paper in half an hour . 
I ha I did so and I found that it contained ahem two guineas . 
Arthur was in the act of saying the little he could say on such a theme , when a bell began to ring , and footsteps approached the door . 
My eldest daughter and my son , Mr Clennam . 
The bell is a signal for visitors to retire , and so they have come to say good night but there is plenty of time , plenty of time . 
Girls , Mr Clennam will excuse any household business you may have together . 
He knows , I dare say , that I have but one room here . 
'I only want my clean dress from Amy , father , said the second girl . 
'And I my clothes , said Tip . 
'Mended and made up ? Clennam heard the sister ask in a whisper . 
To which Amy answered 'Yes . 
He had risen now , and took the opportunity of glancing round the room . 
The bare walls had been coloured green , evidently by an unskilled hand , and were poorly decorated with a few prints . 
The window was curtained , and the floor carpeted and there were shelves and pegs , and other such conveniences , that had accumulated in the course of years . 
All the while the bell was ringing , and the uncle was anxious to go . 
Tip had already clattered down stairs . 
'Now , Mr Clennam , said the uncle , looking back as he shuffled out after them , 'the lock , sir , the lock . 
'Allow me , said the Father , 'to see you down stairs . 
She had slipped out after the rest , and they were alone . 
'Not on any account , said the visitor , hurriedly . 
'Pray allow me to chink , chink , chink . 
'Mr Clennam , said the Father , 'I am deeply , deeply But his visitor had shut up his hand to stop the clinking , and had gone down stairs with great speed . 
He saw no Little Dorrit on his way down , or in the yard . 
The last two or three stragglers were hurrying to the lodge , and he was following , when he caught sight of her in the doorway of the first house from the entrance . 
'Pray forgive me , he said , 'for speaking to you here pray forgive me for coming here at all ! I followed you to night . 
I did so , that I might endeavour to render you and your family some service . 
What I have seen here , in this short time , has greatly increased my heartfelt wish to be a friend to you . 
It would recompense me for much disappointment if I could hope to gain your confidence . 
She was scared at first , but seemed to take courage while he spoke to her . 
'You are very good , sir . 
You speak very earnestly to me . 
But I but I wish you had not watched me . 
He understood the emotion with which she said it , to arise in her father's behalf and he respected it , and was silent . 
I am sure you mean to be kind to us . 
Thank you , thank you . 
'Let me ask you one question before I leave . 
Have you known my mother long ? 'I think two years , sir , The bell has stopped . 
'How did you know her first ? Did she send here for you ? 'No . 
She does not even know that I live here . 
We have a friend , father and I a poor labouring man , but the best of friends and I wrote out that I wished to do needlework , and gave his address . 
And he got what I wrote out displayed at a few places where it cost nothing , and Mrs Clennam found me that way , and sent for me . 
But he remained too late . 
The inner gate was locked , and the lodge closed . 
'Caught , eh ? said the voice . 
'You won't go home till morning . 
Oh ! It's you , is it , Mr Clennam ? The voice was Tip's and they stood looking at one another in the prison yard , as it began to rain . 
'You've done it , observed Tip 'you must be sharper than that next time . 
'But you are locked in too , said Arthur . 
'I believe I am ! said Tip , sarcastically . 
'About ! But not in your way . 
I belong to the shop , only my sister has a theory that our governor must never know it . 
I don't see why , myself . 
'Can I get any shelter ? asked Arthur . 
'What had I better do ? 'We had better get hold of Amy first of all , said Tip , referring any difficulty to her as a matter of course . 
'I would rather walk about all night it's not much to do than give that trouble . 
'You needn't do that , if you don't mind paying for a bed . 
If you don't mind paying , they'll make you up one on the Snuggery table , under the circumstances . 
If you'll come along , I'll introduce you there . 
As they passed down the yard , Arthur looked up at the window of the room he had lately left , where the light was still burning . 
'Yes , sir , said Tip , following his glance . 
'The governor sleeps up in the room , and she has a lodging at the turnkey's . 
First house there , said Tip , pointing out the doorway into which she had retired . 
'First house , sky parlour . 
She pays twice as much for it as she would for one twice as good outside . 
But she stands by the governor , poor dear girl , day and night . 
This brought them to the tavern establishment at the upper end of the prison , where the collegians had just vacated their social evening club . 
The unaccustomed visitor from outside , naturally assumed everybody here to be prisoners landlord , waiter , barmaid , potboy , and all . 
Whether they were or not , did not appear but they all had a weedy look . 
The keeper of a chandler's shop in a front parlour , who took in gentlemen boarders , lent his assistance in making the bed . 
He had been a tailor in his time , and had kept a phaeton , he said . 
that he was going to write a letter to the papers and show the marshal up , he fell into miscellaneous conversation with the rest . 
In this strange scene , and with these strange spectres flitting about him , Arthur Clennam looked on at the preparations as if they were part of a dream . 
But the last item was long , long , long , in linking itself to the rest . 
Speculations , too , bearing the strangest relations towards the prison , but always concerning the prison , ran like nightmares through his mind while he lay awake . 
What if any act of hers and of his father's , should have even remotely brought the grey heads of those two brothers so low ! A swift thought shot into his mind . 
I have suffered for it in kind . 
He has decayed in his prison I in mine . 
I have paid the penalty . 
When all the other thoughts had faded out , this one held possession of him . 
When he fell asleep , she came before him in her wheeled chair , warding him off with this justification . 
But the equinoctial gales were blowing out at sea , and the impartial south west wind , in its flight , would not neglect even the narrow Marshalsea . 
It was as haggard a view of life as a man need look upon . 
Nor was it relieved by any glimpse of the little creature who had brought him there . 
Perhaps she glided out of her doorway and in at that where her father lived , while his face was turned from both but he saw nothing of her . 
At last the lodge gate turned , and the turnkey , standing on the step , taking an early comb at his hair , was ready to let him out . 
With a joyful sense of release he passed through the lodge , and found himself again in the little outer court yard where he had spoken to the brother last night . 
There was a string of people already straggling in , whom it was not difficult to identify as the nondescript messengers , go betweens , and errand bearers of the place . 
The shabbiness of these attendants upon shabbiness , the poverty of these insolvent waiters upon insolvency , was a sight to see . 
Their walk was the walk of a race apart . 
They had a peculiar way of doggedly slinking round the corner , as if they were eternally going to the pawnbroker's . 
She would have recovered her first surprise , and might feel easier with him . 
, where was the nearest place to get a cup of coffee at . 
The nondescript replied in encouraging terms , and brought him to a coffee shop in the street within a stone's throw . 
'Do you know Miss Dorrit ? asked the new client . 
The nondescript knew two Miss Dorrits one who was born inside That was the one ! That was the one ? The nondescript had known her many years . 
In regard of the other Miss Dorrit , the nondescript lodged in the same house with herself and uncle . 
This changed the client's half formed design of remaining at the coffee shop until the nondescript should bring him word that Dorrit had issued forth into the street . 
There were so many lodgers in this house that the doorpost seemed to be as full of bell handles as a cathedral organ is of stops . 
Doubtful which might be the clarionet stop , he was considering the point , when a shuttlecock flew out of the parlour window , and alighted on his hat . 
The window being accessible from the footway , he looked in over the blind , returned the shuttlecock , and put his question . 
'Mr Dorrit ? Third bell and one knock . 
The pupils of Mr Cripples appeared to have been making a copy book of the street door , it was so extensively scribbled over in pencil . 
The frequency of the inscriptions , 'Old Dorrit , and 'Dirty Dick , in combination , suggested intentions of personality on the part Of Mr Cripples's pupils . 
There was ample time to make these observations before the door was opened by the poor old man himself . 
'Ha ! said he , very slowly remembering Arthur , 'you were shut in last night ? 'Yes , Mr Dorrit . 
I hope to meet your niece here presently . 
'Oh ! said he , pondering . 
'Out of my brother's way ? True . 
Would you come up stairs and wait for her ? 'Thank you . 
Turning himself as slowly as he turned in his mind whatever he heard or said , he led the way up the narrow stairs . 
The house was very close , and had an unwholesome smell . 
There was no one there . 
The old man mumbling to himself , after some consideration , that Fanny had run away , went to the next room to fetch her back . 
'I was glad , said Arthur , very much at a loss , for his thoughts were on the brother before him 'to find him so well and cheerful . 
'Ha ! muttered the old man , 'yes , yes , yes , yes , yes ! Arthur wondered what he could possibly want with the clarionet case . 
He did not want it at all . 
, put it back again , took down the snuff instead , and solaced himself with a pinch . 
What do you think of her ? 'I am much impressed , Mr Dorrit , by all that I have seen of her and thought of her . 
'My brother would have been quite lost without Amy , he returned . 
'We should all have been lost without Amy . 
She is a very good girl , Amy . 
Arthur fancied that he heard in these praises a certain tone of custom , which he had heard from the father last night with an inward protest and feeling of antagonism . 
Her uncle resumed his breakfast , and was munching toast sopped in coffee , oblivious of his guest , when the third bell rang . 
She came up after him , in the usual plain dress , and with the usual timid manner . 
Her lips were a little parted , as if her heart beat faster than usual . 
'Mr Clennam , Amy , said her uncle , 'has been expecting you some time . 
'I took the liberty of sending you a message . 
'I received the message , sir . 
'Are you going to my mother's this morning ? I think not , for it is past your usual hour . 
'Not to day , sir . 
I am not wanted to day . 
She looked embarrassed , but said , if he pleased . 
In the midst of this homage , Mr Arthur Clennam offered his arm to Little Dorrit , and Little Dorrit took it . 
He returned , with the best will in the world , that Mr Cripples's boys were forgiven out of the bottom of his soul . 
The morning remained squally , and the streets were miserably muddy , but no rain fell as they walked towards the Iron Bridge . 
Perhaps he seemed as old in her eyes as she seemed young in his . 
'I am sorry to hear you were so inconvenienced last night , sir , as to be locked in . 
It was nothing , he returned . 
He had had a very good bed . 
'Oh yes ! she said quickly 'she believed there were excellent beds at the coffee house . 
He noticed that the coffee house was quite a majestic hotel to her , and that she treasured its reputation . 
'I believe it is very expensive , said Little Dorrit , 'but MY father has told me that quite beautiful dinners may be got there . 
And wine , she added timidly . 
'Were you ever there ? 'Oh no ! Only into the kitchen to fetch hot water . 
Did you ever hear her name before she sent for you ? 'No , sir . 
'Do you think your father ever did ? 'No , sir . 
And you think that at no time of your father's life was my name of Clennam ever familiar to him ? 'No , sir . 
Thus they emerged upon the Iron Bridge , which was as quiet after the roaring streets as though it had been open country . 
The wind blew roughly , the wet squalls came rattling past them , skimming the pools on the road and pavement , and raining them down into the river . 
The clouds raced on furiously in the lead Coloured sky , the smoke and mist raced after them , the dark tide ran fierce and strong in the same direction . 
Little Dorrit seemed the least , the quietest , and weakest of Heaven's creatures . 
'Let me put you in a coach , said Clennam , very nearly adding 'my poor child . 
She hurriedly declined , saying that wet or dry made little difference to her she was used to go about in all weathers . 
'To say to me ? 'That I hope you will not misunderstand my father . 
Don't judge him , sir , as you would judge others outside the gates . 
He has been there so long ! I never saw him outside , but I can understand that he must have grown different in some things since . 
'My thoughts will never be unjust or harsh towards him , believe me . 
He only requires to be understood . 
I only ask for him that his life may be fairly remembered . 
All that he said was quite true . 
It all happened just as he related it . 
He is very much respected . 
Everybody who comes in , is glad to know him . 
He is more courted than anyone else . 
He is far more thought of than the Marshal is . 
If ever pride were innocent , it was innocent in Little Dorrit when she grew boastful of her father . 
'It is often said that his manners are a true gentleman's , and quite a study . 
I see none like them in that place , but he is admitted to be superior to all the rest . 
This is quite as much why they make him presents , as because they know him to be needy . 
He is not to be blamed for being in need , poor love . 
God forbid ! Nor am I so much ashamed of the place itself as might be supposed . 
People are not bad because they come there . 
I have known numbers of good , persevering , honest people come there through misfortune . 
They are almost all kind hearted to one another . 
I think it would be almost cowardly and cruel not to have some little attachment for it , after all this . 
But it seems to set it more right than it was last night . 
I said I wished you had not followed me , sir . 
He told her with perfect truth that it was not the case and putting himself between her and the sharp wind and rain , sheltered her as well as he could . 
'I feel permitted now , he said , 'to ask you a little more concerning your father . 
Has he many creditors ? 'Oh ! a great number . 
'I mean detaining creditors , who keep him where he is ? 'Oh yes ! a great number . 
He was a commissioner , or a board , or a trustee , 'or something . 
He lived in Grosvenor Square , she thought , or very near it . 
He was under Government high in the Circumlocution Office . 
'It can do no harm , thought Arthur , 'if I see this Mr Tite Barnacle . 
The thought did not present itself so quietly but that her quickness intercepted it . 
'Ah ! said Little Dorrit , shaking her head with the mild despair of a lifetime . 
'Many people used to think once of getting my poor father out , but you don't know how hopeless it is . 
People might not think so well of him outside as they do there . 
He might not be so gently dealt with outside as he is there . 
He might not be so fit himself for the life outside as he is for that . 
Here for the first time she could not restrain her tears from falling and the little thin hands he had watched when they were so busy , trembled as they clasped each other . 
It would be a new distress to him even to know that I earn a little money , and that Fanny earns a little money . 
He is so anxious about us , you see , feeling helplessly shut up there . 
Such a good , good father ! He let the little burst of feeling go by before he spoke . 
She was not accustomed to think of herself , or to trouble any one with her emotions . 
'You would be glad to have your brother set at liberty ? 'Oh very , very glad , sir ! 'Well , we will hope for him at least . 
You told me last night of a friend you had ? His name was Plornish , Little Dorrit said . 
And where did Plornish live ? Plornish lived in Bleeding Heart Yard . 
He was 'only a plasterer , Little Dorrit said , as a caution to him not to form high social expectations of Plornish . 
He lived at the last house in Bleeding Heart Yard , and his name was over a little gateway . 
Arthur took down the address and gave her his . 
'There is one friend ! he said , putting up his pocketbook . 
'As I take you back you are going back ? 'Oh yes ! going straight home . 
'As I take you back , the word home jarred upon him , 'let me ask you to persuade yourself that you have another friend . 
I make no professions , and say no more . 
'You are truly kind to me , sir . 
I am sure I need no more . 
They walked back through the miserable muddy streets , and among the poor , mean shops , and were jostled by the crowds of dirty hucksters usual to a poor neighbourhood . 
There was nothing , by the short way , that was pleasant to any of the five senses . 
Yet it was not a common passage through common rain , and mire , and noise , to Clennam , having this little , slender , careful creature on his arm . 
, fell down , and scattered the contents of a large basket , filled with potatoes , in the mud . 
Maggy picked up very few potatoes and a great quantity of mud but they were all recovered , and deposited in the basket . 
Maggy then smeared her muddy face with her shawl , and presenting it to Mr Clennam as a type of purity , enabled him to see what she was like . 
She was about eight and twenty , with large bones , large features , large feet and hands , large eyes and no hair . 
Her large eyes were limpid and almost colourless they seemed to be very little affected by light , and to stand unnaturally still . 
There was also that attentive listening expression in her face , which is seen in the faces of the blind but she was not blind , having one tolerably serviceable eye . 
Her shawl looked particularly like a tea leaf after long infusion . 
'This is Maggy , sir . 
'Maggy , sir , echoed the personage presented . 
'Little mother ! 'She is the grand daughter said Little Dorrit . 
'Grand daughter , echoed Maggy . 
'Of my old nurse , who has been dead a long time . 
Maggy , how old are you ? 'Ten , mother , said Maggy . 
'You can't think how good she is , sir , said Little Dorrit , with infinite tenderness . 
'Good SHE is , echoed Maggy , transferring the pronoun in a most expressive way from herself to her little mother . 
'Or how clever , said Little Dorrit . 
'She goes on errands as well as any one . 
'And is as trustworthy as the Bank of England . 
'She earns her own living entirely . 
Entirely , sir ! said Little Dorrit , in a lower and triumphant tone . 
'Really does ! 'What is her history ? asked Clennam . 
'Think of that , Maggy ? said Little Dorrit , taking her two large hands and clapping them together . 
'A gentleman from thousands of miles away , wanting to know your history ! 'My history ? cried Maggy . 
'She means me , said Little Dorrit , rather confused 'she is very much attached to me . 
Then beat an imaginary child , and said , 'Broom handles and pokers . 
'Ten years old , said Maggy , nodding her head . 
'But what a nice hospital ! So comfortable , wasn't it ? Oh so nice it was . 
'Such beds there is there ! cried Maggy . 
Then , because she was never to be more than ten years old , however long she lived 'However long she lived , echoed Maggy . 
'Her grandmother did not know what to do with her , and for some years was very unkind to her indeed . 
Never , never ! They were very near the end of their walk , and they now came out of the gateway to finish it . 
Nothing would serve Maggy but that they must stop at a grocer's window , short of their destination , for her to show her learning . 
She could read after a sort and picked out the fat figures in the tickets of prices , for the most part correctly . 
The court yard received them at last , and there he said goodbye to Little Dorrit . 
Little as she had always looked , she looked less than ever when he saw her going into the Marshalsea lodge passage , the little mother attended by her big child . 
The cage door opened , and when the small bird , reared in captivity , had tamely fluttered in , he saw it shut again and then he came away . 
the most important Department under Government . 
No public business of any kind could possibly be done at any time without the acquiescence of the Circumlocution Office . 
Its finger was in the largest public pie , and in the smallest public tart . 
It was equally impossible to do the plainest right and to undo the plainest wrong without the express authority of the Circumlocution Office . 
This glorious establishment had been early in the field , when the one sublime principle involving the difficult art of governing a country , was first distinctly revealed to statesmen . 
It had been foremost to study that bright revelation and to carry its shining influence through the whole of the official proceedings . 
Whatever was required to be done , the Circumlocution Office was beforehand with all the public departments in the art of perceiving HOW NOT TO DO IT . 
It is true that How not to do it was the great study and object of all public departments and professional politicians all round the Circumlocution Office . 
It is true that the debates of both Houses of Parliament the whole session through , uniformly tended to the protracted deliberation , How not to do it . 
, I now dismiss you . 
All this is true , but the Circumlocution Office went beyond it . 
Because the Circumlocution Office went on mechanically , every day , keeping this wonderful , all sufficient wheel of statesmanship , How not to do it , in motion . 
It was this spirit of national efficiency in the Circumlocution Office that had gradually led to its having something to do with everything . 
Numbers of people were lost in the Circumlocution Office . 
Boards sat upon them , secretaries minuted upon them , commissioners gabbled about them , clerks registered , entered , checked , and ticked them off , and they melted away . 
In short , all the business of the country went through the Circumlocution Office , except the business that never came out of it and its name was Legion . 
Sometimes , angry spirits attacked the Circumlocution Office . 
Then would he come down to that house with a slap upon the table , and meet the honourable gentleman foot to foot . 
Then would he be there to tell that honourable gentleman that , although the Circumlocution Office was invariably right and wholly right , it never was so right as in this matter . 
Then would he keep one eye upon a coach or crammer from the Circumlocution Office sitting below the bar , and smash the honourable gentleman with the Circumlocution Office account of this matter . 
The Barnacle family had for some time helped to administer the Circumlocution Office . 
The Barnacles were a very high family , and a very large family . 
They were dispersed all over the public offices , and held all sorts of public places . 
Either the nation was under a load of obligation to the Barnacles , or the Barnacles were under a load of obligation to the nation . 
It was not quite unanimously settled which the Barnacles having their opinion , the nation theirs . 
As a Barnacle he had his place , which was a snug thing enough and as a Barnacle he had of course put in his son Barnacle Junior in the office . 
On this occasion Mr Barnacle was not engaged , as he had been before , with the noble prodigy at the head of the Department but was absent . 
Barnacle Junior , however , was announced as a lesser star , yet visible above the office horizon . 
The present Barnacle , holding Mr Clennam's card in his hand , had a youthful aspect , and the fluffiest little whisker , perhaps , that ever was seen . 
Look here ! My father's not in the way , and won't be in the way to day , said Barnacle Junior . 
'You are very good , said Arthur Clennam . 
'I wish however to see Mr Barnacle . 
Look here ! You haven't got any appointment , you know , said Barnacle Junior . 
'No , said Arthur Clennam . 
'That is what I wish to have . 
Look here ! Is this public business ? asked Barnacle junior . 
'No , said Arthur , 'it is nothing about tonnage . 
Is it private business ? 'I really am not sure . 
It relates to a Mr Dorrit . 
'Look here , I tell you what ! You had better call at our house , if you are going that way . 
Twenty four , Mews Street , Grosvenor Square . 
My father's got a slight touch of the gout , and is kept at home by it . 
I will call there now . 
Young Barnacle seemed discomfited at this , as not having at all expected him to go . 
With such assurance , and rather wondering what might have taken place if it HAD been anything about tonnage , Mr Clennam withdrew to pursue his inquiries . 
Mews Street , Grosvenor Square , was not absolutely Grosvenor Square itself , but it was very near it . 
Punch's shows used to lean against the dead wall in Mews Street , while their proprietors were dining elsewhere and the dogs of the neighbourhood made appointments to meet in the same locality . 
, the house agent advertised it as a gentlemanly residence in the most aristocratic part of town , inhabited solely by the elite of the beau monde . 
The footman was to the Grosvenor Square footmen , what the house was to the Grosvenor Square houses . 
Admirable in his way , his way was a back and a bye way . 
His gorgeousness was not unmixed with dirt and both in complexion and consistency he had suffered from the closeness of his pantry . 
A sallow flabbiness was upon him when he took the stopper out , and presented the bottle to Mr Clennam's nose . 
'Be so good as to give that card to Mr Tite Barnacle , and to say that I have just now seen the younger Mr Barnacle , who recommended me to call here . 
pondered over the card a little then said , 'Walk in . 
It required some judgment to do it without butting the inner hall door open , and in the consequent mental confusion and physical darkness slipping down the kitchen stairs . 
The visitor , however , brought himself up safely on the door mat . 
Still the footman said 'Walk in , so the visitor followed him . 
At the inner hall door , another bottle seemed to be presented and another stopper taken out . 
This second vial appeared to be filled with concentrated provisions and extract of Sink from the pantry . 
Mr Barnacle would see him . 
Mr Barnacle dated from a better time , when the country was not so parsimonious and the Circumlocution Office was not so badgered . 
He wound and wound folds of white cravat round his neck , as he wound and wound folds of tape and paper round the neck of the country . 
His wristbands and collar were oppressive his voice and manner were oppressive . 
He was altogether splendid , massive , overpowering , and impracticable . 
He seemed to have been sitting for his portrait to Sir Thomas Lawrence all the days of his life . 
'Mr Clennam ? said Mr Barnacle . 
'You have called on me , I believe , said Mr Barnacle , 'at the Circumlocution giving it the air of a word of about five and twenty syllables 'Office . 
'I have taken that liberty . 
Mr Barnacle solemnly bent his head as who should say , 'I do not deny that it is a liberty proceed to take another liberty , and let me know your business . 
'I have found a debtor in the Marshalsea Prison of the name of Dorrit , who has been there many years . 
I wish to investigate his confused affairs so far as to ascertain whether it may not be possible , after this lapse of time , to ameliorate his unhappy condition . 
The name of Mr Tite Barnacle has been mentioned to me as representing some highly influential interest among his creditors . 
Am I correctly informed ? It being one of the principles of the Circumlocution Office never , on any account whatever , to give a straightforward answer , Mr Barnacle said , 'Possibly . 
The question may have been , in the course of official business , referred to the Circumlocution Department for its consideration . 
The Department may have either originated , or confirmed , a Minute making that recommendation . 
'I assume this to be the case , then . 
'The Circumlocution Department , said Mr Barnacle , 'is not responsible for any gentleman's assumptions . 
Such formalities as are required to be observed in so doing , may be known on application to the proper branch of that Department . 
'Which is the proper branch ? 'I must refer you , returned Mr Barnacle , ringing the bell , 'to the Department itself for a formal answer to that inquiry . 
Having got to this pass , he resolved as an exercise in perseverance , to betake himself again to the Circumlocution Office , and try what satisfaction he could get there . 
He was readmitted to the presence of Barnacle junior , and found that young gentleman singeing his knees now , and gaping his weary way on to four o'clock . 
You stick to us in a devil of a manner , Said Barnacle junior , looking over his shoulder . 
'I want to know 'Look here . 
Upon my soul you mustn't come into the place saying you want to know , you know , remonstrated Barnacle junior , turning about and putting up the eye glass . 
You really are going it at a great pace , you know . 
Egad , you haven't got an appointment , said Barnacle junior , as if the thing were growing serious . 
'I want to know , said Arthur , and repeated his case . 
Barnacle junior stared at him until his eye glass fell out , and then put it in again and stared at him until it fell out again . 
'You have no right to come this sort of move , he then observed with the greatest weakness . 
What do you mean ? You told me you didn't know whether it was public business or not . 
'I have now ascertained that it is public business , returned the suitor , 'and I want to know' and again repeated his monotonous inquiry . 
The effect of that upon young Barnacle was to make him a wonderful spectacle of failure and helplessness . 
'Well , I tell you what . 
You had better try the Secretarial Department , he said at last , sidling to the bell and ringing it . 
'Mr Wobbler ? inquired the suitor . 
Both gentlemen glanced at him , and seemed surprised at his assurance . 
'So he went , said the gentleman with the gun barrel , who was an extremely deliberate speaker , 'down to his cousin's place , and took the Dog with him by rail . 
Flew at the porter fellow when he was put into the dog box , and flew at the guard when he was taken out . 
He got half a dozen fellows into a Barn , and a good supply of Rats , and timed the Dog . 
Finding the Dog able to do it immensely , made the match , and heavily backed the Dog . 
When the match came off , some devil of a fellow was bought over , Sir , Dog was made drunk , Dog's master was cleaned out . 
'Mr Wobbler ? inquired the suitor . 
The gentleman who was spreading the marmalade returned , without looking up from that occupation , 'What did he call the Dog ? 'Called him Lovely , said the other gentleman . 
'Said the Dog was the perfect picture of the old aunt from whom he had expectations . 
Found him particularly like her when hocussed . 
'Mr Wobbler ? said the suitor . 
Both gentlemen laughed for some time . 
'Mr Wobbler ? said the suitor . 
'What's the matter ? then said Mr Wobbler , with his mouth full . 
'I want to know and Arthur Clennam again mechanically set forth what he wanted to know . 
'Can't inform you , observed Mr Wobbler , apparently to his lunch . 
Nothing at all to do with it . 
Better try Mr Clive , second door on the left in the next passage . 
'Perhaps he will give me the same answer . 
Don't know anything about it , said Mr Wobbler . 
The suitor turned away and had left the room , when the gentleman with the gun called out 'Mister ! Hallo ! He looked in again . 
'Shut the door after you . 
You're letting in a devil of a draught here ! A few steps brought him to the second door on the left in the next passage . 
In that room he found three gentlemen number one doing nothing particular , number two doing nothing particular , number three doing nothing particular . 
'I want to know , said Arthur Clennam , and again stated his case in the same barrel organ way . 
'Not bother myself about it ? 'No ! I recommend you not to bother yourself about it . 
This was such a new point of view that Arthur Clennam found himself at a loss how to receive it . 
'You can if you like . 
I can give you plenty of forms to fill up . 
You can have a dozen if you like . 
But you'll never go on with it , said number four . 
'Would it be such hopeless work ? Excuse me I am a stranger in England . 
'I don't say it would be hopeless , returned number four , with a frank smile . 
'I don't express an opinion about that I only express an opinion about you . 
I don't think you'd go on with it . 
However , of course , you can do as you like . 
I suppose there was a failure in the performance of a contract , or something of that kind , was there ? 'I really don't know . 
'Well ! That you can find out . 
Then you'll find out what Department the contract was in , and then you'll find out all about it there . 
How shall I find out ? 'Why , you'll you'll ask till they tell you . 
for leave to memorialise this Department . 
You'll find out when the business passes through each of these stages by asking at both Departments till they tell you . 
'But surely this is not the way to do the business , Arthur Clennam could not help saying . 
This airy young Barnacle was quite entertained by his simplicity in supposing for a moment that it was . 
This light in hand young Barnacle knew perfectly that it was not . 
This dashing young Barnacle , in a word , was likely to become a statesman , and to make a figure . 
'When the business is regularly before that Department , whatever it is , pursued this bright young Barnacle , 'then you can watch it from time to time through that Department . 
When it comes regularly before this Department , then you must watch it from time to time through this Department . 
We shall have to refer it right and left and when we refer it anywhere , then you'll have to look it up . 
When it comes back to us at any time , then you had better look US up . 
When it sticks anywhere , you'll have to try to give it a jog . 
When you write to another Department about it , and then to this Department about it , and don't hear anything satisfactory about it , why then you had better keep on writing . 
Arthur Clennam looked very doubtful indeed . 
'But I am obliged to you at any rate , said he , 'for your politeness . 
'Not at all , replied this engaging young Barnacle . 
'Try the thing , and see how you like it . 
It will be in your power to give it up at any time , if you don't like it . 
You had better take a lot of forms away with you . 
Arthur Clennam put his forms in his pocket gloomily enough , and went his way down the long stone passage and the long stone staircase . 
He looked at the speaker and recognised Mr Meagles . 
He followed , however , quickly and saw Mr Meagles going down the street with his enemy at his side . 
He soon came up with his old travelling companion , and touched him on the back . 
The choleric face which Mr Meagles turned upon him smoothed when he saw who it was , and he put out his friendly hand . 
'How are you ? said Mr Meagles . 
'How d'ye do ? I have only just come over from abroad . 
I am glad to see you . 
'And I am rejoiced to see you . 
Thank'ee ! 'Mrs Meagles and your daughter ? 'Are as well as possible , said Mr Meagles . 
'I only wish you had come upon me in a more prepossessing condition as to coolness . 
'Whew ! said Mr Meagles , dressing again . 
'You have been ruffled , Mr Meagles . 
What is the matter ? 'Wait a bit , and I'll tell you . 
Have you leisure for a turn in the Park ? 'As much as you please . 
Ah ! you may well look at him . 
He happened to have turned his eyes towards the offender whom Mr Meagles had so angrily collared . 
'He's something to look at , that fellow is . 
He was dressed in decent black , a little rusty , and had the appearance of a sagacious master in some handicraft . 
'You keep with us , said Mr Meagles , in a threatening kind of Way , 'and I'll introduce you presently . 
His appearance did not at all justify the suspicion that he had been detected in designs on Mr Meagles's pocket handkerchief nor had he any appearance of being quarrelsome or violent . 
He was a quiet , plain , steady man made no attempt to escape and seemed a little depressed , but neither ashamed nor repentant . 
You wouldn't suppose this man to be a notorious rascal would you ? 'I certainly should not . 
It was really a disconcerting question , with the man there . 
I know you would not . 
You wouldn't suppose him to be a public offender would you ? 'No . 
He is a public offender . 
'You are right , said Mr Meagles . 
'But he has been ingenious , and he has been trying to turn his ingenuity to his country's service . 
That makes him a public offender directly , sir . 
Arthur looked at the man himself , who only shook his head . 
'This Doyce , said Mr Meagles , 'is a smith and engineer . 
He is not in a large way , but he is well known as a very ingenious man . 
of great importance to his country and his fellow creatures . 
I won't say how much money it cost him , or how many years of his life he had been about it , but he brought it to perfection a dozen years ago . 
Wasn't it a dozen ? said Mr Meagles , addressing Doyce . 
'He is the most exasperating man in the world he never complains ! 'Yes . 
Rather better than twelve years ago . 
'Rather better ? said Mr Meagles , 'you mean rather worse . 
Well , Mr Clennam , he addresses himself to the Government . 
He is treated from that instant as a man who has done some infernal action . 
It was not so difficult to believe , after the morning's experience , as Mr Meagles supposed . 
'Don't stand there , Doyce , turning your spectacle case over and over , cried Mr Meagles , 'but tell Mr Clennam what you confessed to me . 
'I undoubtedly was made to feel , said the inventor , 'as if I had committed an offence . 
In dancing attendance at the various offices , I was always treated , more or less , as if it was a very bad offence . 
'There ! said Mr Meagles . 
Now you'll be able to believe me when I tell you the rest of the case . 
With this prelude , Mr Meagles went through the narrative the established narrative , which has become tiresome the matter of course narrative which we all know by heart . 
How there were more years more impertinences , ignorances , and insults . 
How my lords then made a Minute , number five thousand one hundred and three , whereby they resigned the business to the Circumlocution Office . 
How the impertinences , ignorances , and insults went through the multiplication table . 
How the Circumlocution Office , in a Minute , number eight thousand seven hundred and forty , 'saw no reason to reverse the decision at which my lords had arrived . 
How the Circumlocution Office , being reminded that my lords had arrived at no decision , shelved the business . 
That what the Barnacles had to do , was to stick on to the national ship as long as they could . 
'There ! said Mr Meagles , 'now you know all about Doyce . 
Except , which I own does not improve my state of mind , that even now you don't hear him complain . 
'You must have great patience , said Arthur Clennam , looking at him with some wonder , 'great forbearance . 
'No , he returned , 'I don't know that I have more than another man . 
'By the Lord , you have more than I have , though ! cried Mr Meagles . 
Doyce smiled , as he said to Clennam , 'You see , my experience of these things does not begin with myself . 
It has been in my way to know a little about them from time to time . 
Mine is not a particular case . 
I am not worse used than a hundred others who have put themselves in the same position than all the others , I was going to say . 
'I don't know that I should find that a consolation , if it were my case but I am very glad that you do . 
He spoke in that quiet deliberate manner , and in that undertone , which is often observable in mechanics who consider and adjust with great nicety . 
'Disappointed ? he went on , as he walked between them under the trees . 
No doubt I am disappointed . 
No doubt I am hurt . 
But what I mean when I say that people who put themselves in the same position are mostly used in the same way 'In England , said Mr Meagles . 
'Oh ! of course I mean in England . 
When they take their inventions into foreign countries , that's quite different . 
And that's the reason why so many go there . 
Mr Meagles very hot indeed again . 
'What I mean is , that however this comes to be the regular way of our government , it is its regular way . 
, how these great lords and gentlemen will certainly deal with such a matter as mine . 
I have no right to be surprised , with a head upon my shoulders , and memory in it , that I fall into the ranks with all who came before me . 
I ought to have let it alone . 
I have had warning enough , I am sure . 
Many's the day , and many's the way in which he has backed me . 
'Stuff and nonsense , said Mr Meagles . 
Arthur could not but glance at Daniel Doyce in the ensuing silence . 
Mr Meagles was hot and despondent for about five minutes , and then began to cool and clear up . 
'Come , come ! said he . 
'We shall not make this the better by being grim . 
Where do you think of going , Dan ? 'I shall go back to the factory , said Dan . 
'Why then , we'll all go back to the factory , or walk in that direction , returned Mr Meagles cheerfully . 
'Mr Clennam won't be deterred by its being in Bleeding Heart Yard . 
'Bleeding Heart Yard ? said Clennam . 
'I want to go there . 
'So much the better , cried Mr Meagles . 
CHAPTER Let Loose A late , dull autumn night was closing in upon the river Saone . 
The flat expanse of country about Chalons lay a long heavy streak , occasionally made a little ragged by a row of poplar trees against the wrathful sunset . 
On the banks of the river Saone it was wet , depressing , solitary and the night deepened fast . 
One man slowly moving on towards Chalons was the only visible figure in the landscape . 
Cain might have looked as lonely and avoided . 
He glanced here , and he glanced there , sullenly but shrinkingly and sometimes stopped and turned about , and looked all round him . 
Then he limped on again , toiling and muttering . 
He trudged a little further and looking into the distance before him , stopped again . 
'I , hungry , thirsty , weary . 
There , in the back street he found one , the Break of Day . 
The man turned the handle of the Break of Day door , and limped in . 
He touched his discoloured slouched hat , as he came in at the door , to a few men who occupied the room . 
Making his way to an empty little table in a corner of the room behind the stove , he put down his knapsack and his cloak upon the ground . 
As he raised his head from stooping to do so , he found the landlady beside him . 
'One can lodge here to night , madame ? 'Perfectly ! said the landlady in a high , sing song , cheery voice . 
One can dine sup what you please to call it ? 'Ah , perfectly ! cried the landlady as before . 
'Dispatch then , madame , if you please . 
Something to eat , as quickly as you can and some wine at once . 
'It is very bad weather , monsieur , said the landlady . 
'And a very long road . 
His hoarse voice failed him , and he rested his head upon his hands until a bottle of wine was brought from the counter . 
It had passed over by this time and the men had done glancing at him , and were talking again . 
The speaker was the tall Swiss belonging to the church , and he brought something of the authority of the church into the discussion especially as the devil was in question . 
The landlady having given her directions for the new guest's entertainment to her husband , who acted as cook to the Break of Day , had resumed her needlework behind her counter . 
'Ah Heaven , then , said she . 
'When the boat came up from Lyons , and brought the news that the devil was actually let loose at Marseilles , some fly catchers swallowed it . 
But I ? No , not I. 'Madame , you are always right , returned the tall Swiss . 
'He was a bad subject . 
'He was a wicked wretch , said the landlady , 'and well merited what he had the good fortune to escape . 
'Stay , madame ! Let us see , returned the Swiss , argumentatively turning his cigar between his lips . 
'It may have been his unfortunate destiny . 
He may have been the child of circumstances . 
It is always possible that he had , and has , good in him if one did but know how to find it out . 
Philosophical philanthropy teaches The rest of the little knot about the stove murmured an objection to the introduction of that threatening expression . 
Even the two players at dominoes glanced up from their game , as if to protest against philosophical philanthropy being brought by name into the Break of Day . 
'Hold there , you and your philanthropy , cried the smiling landlady , nodding her head more than ever . 
I am a woman , I. I know nothing of philosophical philanthropy . 
But I know what I have seen , and what I have looked in the face in this world here , where I find myself . 
who have no good in them none . 
That there are people whom it is necessary to detest without compromise . 
That there are people who must be dealt with as enemies of the human race . 
That there are people who have no human heart , and who must be crushed like savage beasts and cleared out of the way . 
that there are such people . 
And I do not doubt that this man whatever they call him , I forget his name is one of them . 
'Well ! said the previous speaker , 'let us come back to our subject . 
Leaving all that aside , gentlemen , it was because the man was acquitted on his trial that people said at Marseilles that the devil was let loose . 
That was how the phrase began to circulate , and what it meant nothing more . 
'How do they call him ? said the landlady . 
'Biraud , is it not ? 'Rigaud , madame , returned the tall Swiss . 
'Rigaud ! To be sure . 
The traveller's soup was succeeded by a dish of meat , and that by a dish of vegetables . 
He ate all that was placed before him , emptied his bottle of wine , called for a glass of rum , and smoked his cigarette with his cup of coffee . 
As he became refreshed , he became overbearing and patronised the company at the Daybreak in certain small talk at which he assisted , as if his condition were far above his appearance . 
The landlord was clinking about in his kitchen the landlady was quiet at her work and the refreshed traveller sat smoking by the stove , warming his ragged feet . 
'Pardon me , madame that Biraud . 
Rigaud was a criminal , she said , who had killed his wife . 
'Ay , ay ? Death of my life , that's a criminal indeed . 
But how do you know it ? 'All the world knows it . 
'Hah ! And yet he escaped justice ? 'Monsieur , the law could not prove it against him to its satisfaction . 
Nevertheless , all the world knows he did it . 
The people knew it so well , that they tried to tear him to pieces . 
'Being all in perfect accord with their own wives ? said the guest . 
'Haha ! The landlady of the Break of Day looked at him again , and felt almost confirmed in her last decision . 
He had a fine hand , though , and he turned it with a great show . 
She began once more to think that he was not ill looking after all . 
It had been mentioned at the Daybreak , she remarked , on the authority of the journals , that he had been kept in prison for his own safety . 
However that might be , he had escaped his deserts so much the worse . 
When she did look up , the expression was not there . 
The hand was smoothing his shaggy moustache . 
'May one ask to be shown to bed , madame ? Very willingly , monsieur . 
Hola , my husband ! My husband would conduct him up stairs . 
This the landlady of the Break of Day chirpingly explained , calling between whiles , 'Hola , my husband ! out at the side door . 
It was a large room , with a rough splintery floor , unplastered rafters overhead , and two bedsteads on opposite sides . 
The landlord , whether he was a good or a bad physiognomist , had fully made up his mind that the guest was an ill looking fellow . 
The man was covered up warm , and had drawn the white curtain at his head , so that he could be only heard , not seen . 
The waking traveller , therefore , stole a little nearer , and yet a little nearer , and a little nearer to the sleeping traveller's bed , until he stood close beside it . 
Even then he could not see his face , for he had drawn the sheet over it . 
to the sheet , and gently lifted it away . 
At first they were not awake , though open . 
He lay for some seconds looking placidly at his old prison companion , and then , all at once , with a cry of surprise and alarm , sprang out of bed . 
'Hush ! What's the matter ? Keep quiet ! It's I. You know me ? cried the other , in a suppressed voice . 
Seeing this , his old prison comrade fell back upon the door , and set his shoulders against it . 
'Cavalletto ! Wake , boy ! Rub your eyes and look at me . 
'Cavalletto ! Give me your hand . 
You know Lagnier , the gentleman . 
Monsieur Lagnier laughed and having given it a squeeze , tossed it up and let it go . 
'Then you were faltered John Baptist . 
'Not shaved ? No. See here ! cried Lagnier , giving his head a twirl 'as tight on as your own . 
John Baptist , with a slight shiver , looked all round the room as if to recall where he was . 
His patron took that opportunity of turning the key in the door , and then sat down upon his bed . 
'Look ! he said , holding up his shoes and gaiters . 
'That's a poor trim for a gentleman , you'll say . 
No matter , you shall see how Soon I'll mend it . 
Take your old place ! John Baptist , looking anything but reassured , sat down on the floor at the bedside , keeping his eyes upon his patron all the time . 
'That's well ! cried Lagnier . 
'Now we might be in the old infernal hole again , hey ? How long have you been out ? 'Two days after you , my master . 
'How do you come here ? 'I was cautioned not to stay there , and so I left the town at once , and since then I have changed about . 
I have been doing odds and ends at Avignon , at Pont Esprit , at Lyons upon the Rhone , upon the Saone . 
As he spoke , he rapidly mapped the places out with his sunburnt hand upon the floor . 
'And where are you going ? 'Going , my master ? 'Ay ! John Baptist seemed to desire to evade the question without knowing how . 
'By Bacchus ! he said at last , as if he were forced to the admission , 'I have sometimes had a thought of going to Paris , and perhaps to England . 
I also am going to Paris and perhaps to England . 
The little man nodded his head , and showed his teeth and yet seemed not quite convinced that it was a surpassingly desirable arrangement . 
'We'll go together , repeated Lagnier . 
'You shall see how soon I will force myself to be recognised as a gentleman , and you shall profit by it . 
It is agreed ? Are we one ? 'Oh , surely , surely ! said the little man . 
'Then you shall hear before I sleep and in six words , for I want sleep how I appear before you , I , Lagnier . 
'Altro , altro ! Not Ri Before John Baptist could finish the name , his comrade had got his hand under his chin and fiercely shut up his mouth . 
'Death ! what are you doing ? Do you want me to be trampled upon and stoned ? Do YOU want to be trampled upon and stoned ? You would be . 
He remembered what a cosmopolitan gentleman Monsieur Lagnier was , and how few weak distinctions he made . 
'I am a man , said Monsieur Lagnier , 'whom society has deeply wronged since you last saw me . 
You know that I am sensitive and brave , and that it is my character to govern . 
How has society respected those qualities in me ? I have been shrieked at through the streets . 
I have been guarded through the streets against men , and especially women , running at me armed with any weapons they could lay their hands on . 
I have lain in prison for security , with the place of my confinement kept a secret , lest I should be torn out of it and felled by a hundred blows . 
I have been carted out of Marseilles in the dead of night , and carried leagues away from it packed in straw . 
But society shall pay for it . 
All this he said in his companion's ear , and with his hand before his lips . 
'Even here , he went on in the same way , 'even in this mean drinking shop , society pursues me . 
Madame defames me , and her guests defame me . 
I , too , a gentleman with manners and accomplishments to strike them dead ! But the wrongs society has heaped upon me are treasured in this breast . 
'Put my shoes there , continued Lagnier . 
'Hang my cloak to dry there by the door . 
He obeyed each instruction , as it was given . 
'And this is the bed to which society consigns me , is it ? Hah . 
'Shaken out of destiny's dice box again into your company , eh ? By Heaven ! So much the better for you . 
I shall need a long rest . 
Let me sleep in the morning . 
John Baptist replied that he should sleep as long as he would , and wishing him a happy night , put out the candle . 
When he started up , the Godfather Break of Day was peeping at its namesake . 
He rose , took his shoes in his hand , turned the key in the door with great caution , and crept downstairs . 
Nothing was astir there but the smell of coffee , wine , tobacco , and syrups and madame's little counter looked ghastly enough . 
He prospered in his object . 
No movement or voice was heard when he opened the door no wicked head tied up in a ragged handkerchief looked out of the upper window . 
The opinion of the Yard was divided respecting the derivation of its name . 
It was objected by the murderous party that this Refrain was notoriously the invention of a tambour worker , a spinster and romantic , still lodging in the Yard . 
Down in to the Yard , by way of the steps , came Daniel Doyce , Mr Meagles , and Clennam . 
Passing along the Yard , and between the open doors on either hand , all abundantly garnished with light children nursing heavy ones , they arrived at its opposite boundary , the gateway . 
It was plain enough , nevertheless , as Little Dorrit had said over a lime splashed gateway in the corner , within which Plornish kept a ladder and a barrel or two . 
referred all inquirers to that apartment . 
Parting from his companions , after arranging another meeting with Mr Meagles , Clennam went alone into the entry , and knocked with his knuckles at the parlour door . 
It was opened presently by a woman with a child in her arms , whose unoccupied hand was hastily rearranging the upper part of her dress . 
This was Mrs Plornish , and this maternal action was the action of Mrs Plornish during a large part of her waking existence . 
Was Mr Plornish at home ? 'Well , sir , said Mrs Plornish , a civil woman , 'not to deceive you , he's gone to look for a job . 
'Not to deceive you' was a method of speech with Mrs Plornish . 
She would deceive you , under any circumstances , as little as might be but she had a trick of answering in this provisional form . 
, and sat down in the chair she placed for him . 
'Not to deceive you , sir , I notice it , said Mrs Plornish , 'and I take it kind of you . 
He was at a loss to understand what she meant and by expressing as much in his looks , elicited her explanation . 
'It ain't many that comes into a poor place , that deems it worth their while to move their hats , said Mrs Plornish . 
'But people think more of it than people think . 
'He IS a fine little fellow , ain't he , sir ? But this one is rather sickly . 
She tenderly hushed the baby in her arms , as she said it . 
'You wouldn't mind my asking if it happened to be a job as you was come about , sir , would you ? asked Mrs Plornish wistfully . 
'All such things as jobs , said Mrs Plornish , 'seems to me to have gone underground , they do indeed . 
'Is it so difficult to get work ? asked Arthur Clennam . 
'Plornish finds it so , she returned . 
A willing , working , soft hearted , not hard headed fellow , Plornish took his fortune as smoothly as could be expected but it was a rough one . 
He took it as it came , therefore he tumbled into all kinds of difficulties , and tumbled out of them and , by tumbling through life , got himself considerably bruised . 
No one ever heard my husband complain of work . 
Somehow or other , this was the general misfortune of Bleeding Heart Yard . 
While Mrs Plornish spoke in these words of her absent lord , her lord returned . 
A smooth cheeked , fresh coloured , sandy whiskered man of thirty . 
Long in the legs , yielding at the knees , foolish in the face , flannel jacketed , lime whitened . 
'This is Plornish , sir . 
'I came , said Clennam , rising , 'to beg the favour of a little conversation with you on the subject of the Dorrit family . 
Seemed to scent a creditor . 
Said , 'Ah , yes . 
He didn't know what satisfaction he could give any gentleman , respecting that family . 
What might it be about , now ? 'I know you better , said Clennam , smiling , 'than you suppose . 
Plornish observed , not Smiling in return , And yet he hadn't the pleasure of being acquainted with the gentleman , neither . 
'No , said Arthur , 'I know your kind offices at second hand , but on the best authority through Little Dorrit . 
I mean , he explained , 'Miss Dorrit . 
'Mr Clennam , is it ? Oh ! I've heard of you , Sir . 
'And I of you , said Arthur . 
'Please to sit down again , Sir , and consider yourself welcome . 
Me and my wife , we are well acquainted with Miss Dorrit . 
'Intimate ! cried Mrs Plornish . 
The Bleeding Hearts resented her claiming to know people of such distinction . 
'It was her father that I got acquainted with first . 
And through getting acquainted with him , you see why I got acquainted with her , said Plornish tautologically . 
No ! said Plornish , looking with a ridiculous triumph first at his wife , and then all round the room . 
'Dursn't let him know it , they dursn't ! 'Without admiring him for that , Clennam quietly observed , 'I am very sorry for him . 
The remark appeared to suggest to Plornish , for the first time , that it might not be a very fine trait of character after all . 
He pondered about it for a moment , and gave it up . 
'As to me , he resumed , 'certainly Mr Dorrit is as affable with me , I am sure , as I can possibly expect . 
Considering the differences and distances betwixt us , more so . 
But it's Miss Dorrit that we were speaking of . 
'and she wrote it in , according . 
'and likewise to the landlord of the Yard through which it was that Mrs Clennam first happened to employ Miss Dorrit . 
Plornish repeated , employ Miss Dorrit and Mrs Plornish having come to an end , feigned to bite the fingers of the little hand as she kissed it . 
'The landlord of the Yard , said Arthur Clennam , 'is 'He is Mr Casby , by name , he is , said Plornish , 'and Pancks , he collects the rents . 
'Ay ? returned Clennam , thoughtful in his turn . 
'Mr Casby , too ! An old acquaintance of mine , long ago ! Mr Plornish did not see his road to any comment on this fact , and made none . 
considered that ten shillings in the pound 'would settle handsome , and that more would be a waste of money . 
On this hint , Mr Plornish retired to communicate with his Principal , and presently came back with the required credentials . 
Then said Captain Maroon , 'Now , how much time do you want to make the other twenty in ? Now , I'll give you a month . 
Then said Captain Maroon , when that wouldn't suit , 'Now , I'll tell what I'll do with you . 
You shall give me another ten down , and I'll run my pen clean through it . 
Finally said Captain Maroon , when THAT wouldn't suit either , 'Hand over , then ! And in consideration of the first offer , gave a receipt in full and discharged the prisoner . 
'Mr Plornish , said Arthur , 'I trust to you , if you please , to keep my secret . 
'The last reason , sir , said Plornish , 'would be quite sufficient . 
Your wishes shall be attended to . 
'A Friend has obtained his discharge , you can say if you please . 
A Friend who hopes that for his sister's sake , if for no one else's , he will make good use of his liberty . 
'Your wishes , sir , shall be attended to . 
He took Clennam's card and appropriate pecuniary compliment . 
He was earnest to finish his commission at once , and his Principal was in the same mind . 
So his Principal offered to set him down at the Marshalsea Gate , and they drove in that direction over Blackfriars Bridge . 
On the way , Arthur elicited from his new friend a confused summary of the interior life of Bleeding Heart Yard . 
They was all hard up there , Mr Plornish said , uncommon hard up , to be sure . 
Well , he couldn't say how it was he didn't know as anybody could say how it was all he know'd was , that so it was . 
know'd well that he was poor somehow or another , and you couldn't talk it out of him , no more than you could talk Beef into him . 
In Mr Plornish's judgment you would be the worse for it . 
Yet you seemed to want to make a man mollancholy mad . 
You was always at it if not with your right hand , with your left . 
What was they a doing in the Yard ? Why , take a look at 'em and see . 
There was people of pretty well all sorts of trades you could name , all wanting to work , and yet not able to get it . 
Why , a man didn't know where to turn himself for a crumb of comfort . 
As to who was to blame for it , Mr Plornish didn't know who was to blame for it . 
He could tell you who suffered , but he couldn't tell you whose fault it was . 
CHAPTER Patriarchal The mention of Mr Casby again revived in Clennam's memory the smouldering embers of curiosity and interest which Mrs Flintwinch had fanned on the night of his arrival . 
, who was reputed to be rich in weekly tenants , and to get a good quantity of blood out of the stones of several unpromising courts and alleys . 
'The house , thought Clennam , as he crossed to the door , 'is as little changed as my mother's , and looks almost as gloomy . 
But the likeness ends outside . 
I know its staid repose within . 
The smell of its jars of old rose leaves and lavender seems to come upon me even here . 
There was a grave clock , ticking somewhere up the staircase and there was a songless bird in the same direction , pecking at his cage , as if he were ticking too . 
The parlour fire ticked in the grate . 
There was only one person on the parlour hearth , and the loud watch in his pocket ticked audibly . 
The servant maid had ticked the two words 'Mr Clennam' so softly that she had not been heard and he consequently stood , within the door she had closed , unnoticed . 
Perhaps there never was a man , in this troublesome world , so troublesome for the imagination to picture as a boy . 
And yet he had changed very little in his progress through life . 
upon a bank of violets , moved to precocious contemplation by the spire of a village church . 
There was the same smooth face and forehead , the same calm blue eye , the same placid air . 
Nevertheless , in the Seraphic creature with the haymaking rake , were clearly to be discerned the rudiments of the Patriarch with the list shoes . 
Patriarch was the name which many people delighted to give him . 
Various old ladies in the neighbourhood spoke of him as The Last of the Patriarchs . 
So grey , so slow , so quiet , so impassionate , so very bumpy in the head , Patriarch was the word for him . 
Indeed it would be the height of unreason to expect him to be sitting there without that head . 
Arthur Clennam moved to attract his attention , and the grey eyebrows turned towards him . 
'I beg your pardon , said Clennam , 'I fear you did not hear me announced ? 'No , sir , I did not . 
Did you wish to see me , sir ? 'I wished to pay my respects . 
Mr Casby seemed a feather's weight disappointed by the last words , having perhaps prepared himself for the visitor's wishing to pay something else . 
'Really ! Mr Clennam ? 'No other , Mr Casby . 
'Mr Clennam , I am glad to see you . 
'We are older , Mr Clennam , said Christopher Casby . 
'We are not younger , said Clennam . 
After this wise remark he felt that he was scarcely shining with brilliancy , and became aware that he was nervous . 
'And your respected father , said Mr Casby , 'is no more ! I was grieved to hear it , Mr Clennam , I was grieved . 
Arthur replied in the usual way that he felt infinitely obliged to him . 
'There was a time , said Mr Casby , 'when your parents and myself were not on friendly terms . 
There was a little family misunderstanding among us . 
Your respected mother was rather jealous of her son , maybe when I say her son , I mean your worthy self , your worthy self . 
His smooth face had a bloom upon it like ripe wall fruit . 
What with his blooming face , and that head , and his blue eyes , he seemed to be delivering sentiments of rare wisdom and virtue . 
In like manner , his physiognomical expression seemed to teem with benignity . 
Nobody could have said where the wisdom was , or where the virtue was , or where the benignity was but they all seemed to be somewhere about him . 
'Those times , however , pursued Mr Casby , 'are past and gone , past and gone . 
As if he denied himself the pleasure of uttering it , lest he should soar too high and his meekness therefore preferred to be unmeaning . 
'Little Dorrit ? That's the seamstress who was mentioned to me by a small tenant of mine ? Yes , yes . 
Dorrit ? That's the name . 
Ah , yes , yes ! You call her Little Dorrit ? No road in that direction . 
Nothing came of the cross cut . 
'My daughter Flora , said Mr Casby , 'as you may have heard probably , Mr Clennam , was married and established in life , several years ago . 
She had the misfortune to lose her husband when she had been married a few months . 
She resides with me again . 
She will be glad to see you , if you will permit me to let her know that you are here . 
'By all means , returned Clennam . 
'I should have preferred the request , if your kindness had not anticipated me . 
Upon this Mr Casby rose up in his list shoes , and with a slow , heavy step , made for the door . 
He had a long wide skirted bottle green coat on , and a bottle green pair of trousers , and a bottle green waistcoat . 
The Patriarchs were not dressed in bottle green broadcloth , and yet his clothes looked patriarchal . 
Immediately afterwards , a quick and eager short dark man came into the room with so much way upon him that he was within a foot of Clennam before he could stop . 
Clennam saw no reason why he should not say 'Halloa ! too . 
'What's the matter ? said the short dark man . 
'I have not heard that anything is the matter , returned Clennam . 
'Where's Mr Casby ? asked the short dark man , looking about . 
'He will be here directly , if you want him . 
I want him ? said the short dark man . 
'Don't you ? This elicited a word or two of explanation from Clennam , during the delivery of which the short dark man held his breath and looked at him . 
'Oh ! said he , when Arthur told him how he came to be there . 
He knew that some of these specks even represented Christopher as capable of harbouring designs in 'that head , and as being a crafty impostor . 
, so , in the great social Exhibition , accessories are often accepted in lieu of the internal character . 
The return of Mr Casby with his daughter Flora , put an end to these meditations . 
Clennam's eyes no sooner fell upon the subject of his old passion than it shivered and broke to pieces . 
Most men will be found sufficiently true to themselves to be true to an old idea . 
In his youth he had ardently loved this woman , and had heaped upon her all the locked up wealth of his affection and imagination . 
, he had kept the old fancy of the Past unchanged , in its old sacred place . 
And now , after all , the last of the Patriarchs coolly walked into the parlour , saying in effect , 'Be good enough to throw it down and dance upon it . 
Flora , always tall , had grown to be very broad too , and short of breath but that was not much . 
Flora , whom he had left a lily , had become a peony but that was not much . 
Flora , who had seemed enchanting in all she said and thought , was diffuse and silly . 
Flora , who had been spoiled and artless long ago , was determined to be spoiled and artless now . 
That was a fatal blow . 
He received an answer from some little Dock beyond , and was towed out of sight directly . 
'I am not , returned Arthur , smiling in spite of himself , 'married to any lady , Flora . 
Instantly she went on again , as if he had spoken in reply for some time . 
'My dear Mrs Finching , Arthur began , struck by the good tone again . 
'Oh not that nasty ugly name , say Flora ! 'Flora . 
'No , no , Clennam entreated , 'don't say that . 
'Oh I must you know , said Flora , in a positive tone , 'what nonsense not to , I know I am not what you expected , I know that very well . 
In the midst of her rapidity , she had found that out with the quick perception of a cleverer woman . 
'My dear Mrs Finching , you were not to blame , and I never blamed you . 
We were both too young , too dependent and helpless , to do anything but accept our separation . 
Pray think how long ago , gently remonstrated Arthur . 
Let an old friend assure you of his full conviction that you did quite right . 
Therefore , he stayed to dinner . 
Pancks instantly made fast to him and hauled him out . 
'Bleeding Heart Yard ? said Pancks , with a puff and a snort . 
Don't pay you badly , but rents are very hard to get there . 
You have more trouble with that one place than with all the places belonging to you . 
'Indeed ? returned Clennam , upon whom this impression was so efficiently made by a mere gleam of the polished head that he spoke the ship instead of the Tug . 
They say they are , but they all say that . 
When a man says he's rich , you're generally sure he isn't . 
Besides , if they ARE poor , you can't help it . 
You'd be poor yourself if you didn't get your rents . 
'True enough , said Arthur . 
'You're not going to keep open house for all the poor of London , pursued Pancks . 
'You're not going to lodge 'em for nothing . 
You're not going to open your gates wide and let 'em come free . 
Not if you know it , you ain't . 
Mr Casby shook his head , in Placid and benignant generality . 
'You have some extent of such property about the east and north east here , I believe ? said Clennam , doubtful which of the two to address . 
'Oh , pretty well , said Pancks . 
'You're not particular to east or north east , any point of the compass will do for you . 
What you want is a good investment and a quick return . 
You take it where you can find it . 
You ain't nice as to situation not you . 
There was a fourth and most original figure in the Patriarchal tent , who also appeared before dinner . 
A further remarkable thing in this little old woman was , that she had no name but Mr F. 's Aunt . 
Flora said , oh yes , she didn't mean that , Mr F. had made a beautiful will , but he had left her as a separate legacy , his Aunt . 
She then went out of the room to fetch the legacy , and , on her return , rather triumphantly presented 'Mr F. 's Aunt . 
began with some soup , some fried soles , a butter boat of shrimp sauce , and a dish of potatoes . 
The conversation still turned on the receipt of rents . 
Mr Pancks courageously nodded his head and said , 'All right , ma'am . 
But the effect of this mysterious communication upon Clennam was absolutely to frighten him . 
And another circumstance invested this old lady with peculiar terrors . 
Though she was always staring , she never acknowledged that she saw any individual . 
The polite and attentive stranger would desire , say , to consult her inclinations on the subject of potatoes . 
There was mutton , a steak , and an apple pie nothing in the remotest way connected with ganders and the dinner went on like a disenchanted feast , as it truly was . 
This was quietly done by Flora Mr F. 's Aunt offering no resistance , but inquiring on her way out , 'What he come there for , then ? with implacable animosity . 
'Shall we walk together ? said Arthur . 
'Quite agreeable , said Pancks . 
These , in conjunction with one hand in his pocket and his roughened hat hind side before , were evidently the conditions under which he reflected . 
'A fresh night ! said Arthur . 
'Yes , it's pretty fresh , assented Pancks . 
'As a stranger you feel the climate more than I do , I dare say . 
Indeed I haven't got time to feel it . 
'You lead such a busy life ? 'Yes , I have always some of 'em to look up , or something to look after . 
But I like business , said Pancks , getting on a little faster . 
'What's a man made for ? 'For nothing else ? said Clennam . 
Pancks put the counter question , 'What else ? It packed up , in the smallest compass , a weight that had rested on Clennam's life and he made no answer . 
'That's what I ask our weekly tenants , said Pancks . 
'Some of 'em will pull long faces to me , and say , Poor as you see us , master , we're always grinding , drudging , toiling , every minute we're awake . 
I say to them , What else are you made for ? It shuts them up . 
They haven't a word to answer . 
What else are you made for ? That clinches it . 
'Ah dear , dear , dear ! sighed Clennam . 
'Here am I , said Pancks , pursuing his argument with the weekly tenant . 
'What else do you suppose I think I am made for ? Nothing . 
Rattle me out of bed early , set me going , give me as short a time as you like to bolt my meals in , and keep me at it . 
Keep me always at it , and I'll keep you always at it , you keep somebody else always at it . 
There you are with the Whole Duty of Man in a commercial country . 
When they had walked a little further in silence , Clennam said 'Have you no taste for anything , Mr Pancks ? 'What's taste ? drily retorted Pancks . 
'I have an inclination to get money , sir , said Pancks , 'if you will show me how . 
He blew off that sound again , and it occurred to his companion for the first time that it was his way of laughing . 
'You are no great reader , I suppose ? said Clennam . 
'Never read anything but letters and accounts . 
Never collect anything but advertisements relative to next of kin . 
If that's a taste , I have got that . 
You're not of the Clennams of Cornwall , Mr Clennam ? 'Not that I ever heard of . 
I asked your mother , sir . 
She has too much character to let a chance escape her . 
'Supposing I had been of the Clennams of Cornwall ? 'You'd have heard of something to your advantage . 
'Indeed ! I have heard of little enough to my advantage for some time . 
I wish you good night . 
'Good night ! said Clennam . 
But the Tug , suddenly lightened , and untrammelled by having any weight in tow , was already puffing away into the distance . 
They had crossed Smithfield together , and Clennam was left alone at the corner of Barbican . 
He had no intention of presenting himself in his mother's dismal room that night , and could not have felt more depressed and cast away if he had been in a wilderness . 
As they came up , he made out that they were gathered around a something that was carried on men's shoulders . 
'An accident going to the Hospital ? he asked an old man beside him , who stood shaking his head , inviting conversation . 
'Yes , said the man , 'along of them Mails . 
They ought to be prosecuted and fined , them Mails . 
They come a racing out of Lad Lane and Wood Street at twelve or fourteen mile a hour , them Mails do . 
The only wonder is , that people ain't killed oftener by them Mails . 
'This person is not killed , I hope ? 'I don't know ! said the man , 'it an't for the want of a will in them Mails , if he an't . 
What can you expect from a poor foreigner who don't know nothing about 'em ! 'Is this a foreigner ? said Clennam , leaning forward to look . 
He was immediately handed to the front , to speak to him . 
'First , he wants some water , said he , looking round . 
'Are you badly hurt , my friend ? he asked the man on the litter , in Italian . 
'Yes , sir yes , yes , yes . 
It's my leg , it's my leg . 
But it pleases me to hear the old music , though I am very bad . 
'You are a traveller ! Stay ! See , the water ! Let me give you some . 
They had rested the litter on a pile of paving stones . 
It was at a convenient height from the ground , and by stooping he could lightly raise the head with one hand and hold the glass to his lips with the other . 
A little , muscular , brown man , with black hair and white teeth . 
A lively face , apparently . 
You are a traveller ? 'Surely , sir . 
'A stranger in this city ? 'Surely , surely , altogether . 
I am arrived this unhappy evening . 
'From what country ? 'Marseilles . 
'Why , see there ! I also ! Almost as much a stranger here as you , though born here , I came from Marseilles a little while ago . 
The face looked up at him imploringly , as he rose from wiping it , and gently replaced the coat that covered the writhing figure . 
'I won't leave you till you shall be well taken care of . 
Courage ! You will be very much better half an hour hence . 
Arthur Clennam turned and walking beside the litter , and saying an encouraging word now and then , accompanied it to the neighbouring hospital of Saint Bartholomew . 
It's difficult enough , but we shall not want him to part with his leg this time . 
Which Clennam interpreted to the patient , who was full of gratitude , and , in his demonstrative way , kissed both the interpreter's hand and the surgeon's several times . 
'It's a serious injury , I suppose ? said Clennam . 
'Ye es , replied the surgeon , with the thoughtful pleasure of an artist contemplating the work upon his easel . 
There's a compound fracture above the knee , and a dislocation below . 
They are both of a beautiful kind . 
'He speaks French ? said the surgeon . 
'Oh yes , he speaks French . 
'He'll be at no loss here , then . 
Now , let us see whether there's anything else the matter , and how our ribs are ? There was nothing else the matter , and our ribs were sound . 
Even then he wrote a few words for him on his card , with a promise to return to morrow , and left it to be given to him when he should awake . 
All these proceedings occupied so long that it struck eleven o'clock at night as he came out at the Hospital Gate . 
He had hired a lodging for the present in Covent Garden , and he took the nearest way to that quarter , by Snow Hill and Holborn . 
Left to himself again , after the solicitude and compassion of his last adventure , he was naturally in a thoughtful mood . 
As naturally , he could not walk on thinking for ten minutes without recalling Flora . 
She necessarily recalled to him his life , with all its misdirection and little happiness . 
So long , so bare , so blank . 
No childhood no youth , except for one remembrance that one remembrance proved , only that day , to be a piece of folly . 
It was a misfortune to him , trifle as it might have been to another . 
He had foreseen this , on the former night , when he had dreamed with waking eyes . 
but he had not felt it then and he had now . 
Bred in meanness and hard dealing , this had rescued him to be a man of honourable mind and open hand . 
Bred in coldness and severity , this had rescued him to have a warm and sympathetic heart . 
A disappointed mind he had , but a mind too firm and healthy for such unwholesome air . 
Leaving himself in the dark , it could rise into the light , seeing it shine on others and hailing it . 
CHAPTER Little Dorrit's Party Arthur Clennam rose hastily , and saw her standing at the door . 
This history must sometimes see with Little Dorrit's eyes , and shall begin that course by seeing him . 
Little Dorrit looked into a dim room , which seemed a spacious one to her , and grandly furnished . 
At first in the chair before the gone out fire , and then turned round wondering to see her , was the gentleman whom she sought . 
Now he regarded her with that attentive and inquiring look before which Little Dorrit's eyes had always fallen , and before which they fell still . 
'My poor child ! Here at midnight ? 'I said Little Dorrit , sir , on purpose to prepare you . 
I knew you must be very much surprised . 
'Are you alone ? 'No sir , I have got Maggy with me . 
Considering her entrance sufficiently prepared for by this mention of her name , Maggy appeared from the landing outside , on the broad grin . 
She instantly suppressed that manifestation , however , and became fixedly solemn . 
'And I have no fire , said Clennam . 
'Your foot is like marble , my child he had happened to touch it , while stooping on one knee at his work of kindling the fire 'put it nearer the warmth . 
Little Dorrit thanked him hastily . 
It was quite warm , it was very warm ! It smote upon his heart to feel that she hid her thin , worn shoe . 
Little Dorrit was not ashamed of her poor shoes . 
He knew her story , and it was not that . 
It was a part of her father's misfortunes that they did . 
A slight shade of distress fell upon her , at his so often calling her a child . 
She was surprised that he should see it , or think of such a slight thing but he said directly 'I wanted a tender word , and could think of no other . 
'Thank you , sir , I should like it better than any name . 
put in , as a correction . 
'It's all the same , MaggY , returned Little Dorrit , 'all the same . 
'Is it all the same , mother ? 'Just the same . 
Maggy laughed , and immediately snored . 
In Little Dorrit's eyes and ears , the uncouth figure and the uncouth sound were as pleasant as could be . 
There was a glow of pride in her big child , overspreading her face , when it again met the eyes of the grave brown gentleman . 
She wondered what he was thinking of , as he looked at Maggy and her . 
She thought what a good father he would be . 
How , with some such look , he would counsel and cherish his daughter . 
'What I was going to tell you , sir , said Little Dorrit , 'is , that MY brother is at large . 
Arthur was rejoiced to hear it , and hoped he would do well . 
, that he had had the means and chance of doing a little service to her , who well deserved a great one . 
Her eyes , and the tones of her voice , had thanked him far better than she thought . 
'And oh ain't it a Ev'nly place , suddenly interrupted Maggy , who seemed to have the power of going to sleep and waking up whenever she chose . 
'Almost as good as a hospital . 
Only there ain't no Chicking in it . 
Here she shook herself , and fell asleep again . 
But I pretend to night that I am at a party . 
As she made the confession , timidly hesitating , she raised her eyes to the face , and read its expression so plainly that she answered it . 
'Oh no , certainly ! I never was at a party in my life . 
She paused a little under his attentive look , and then said , 'I hope there is no harm in it . 
I could never have been of any use , if I had not pretended a little . 
But what was really in his mind , was the weak figure with its strong purpose , the thin worn shoes , the insufficient dress , and the pretence of recreation and enjoyment . 
He asked where the suppositious party was ? At a place where she worked , answered Little Dorrit , blushing . 
She had said very little about it only a few words to make her father easy . 
Her father did not believe it to be a grand party indeed he might suppose that . 
And she glanced for an instant at the shawl she wore . 
'It is the first night , said Little Dorrit , 'that I have ever been away from home . 
And London looks so large , so barren , and so wild . 
In Little Dorrit's eyes , its vastness under the black sky was awful a tremor passed over her as she said the words . 
'But this is not , she added , with the quiet effort again , 'what I have come to trouble you with , sir . 
My sister's having found a friend , a lady she has told me of and made me rather anxious about , was the first cause of my coming away from home . 
round by where you lived and seeing a light in the window Not for the first time . 
No , not for the first time . 
In Little Dorrit's eyes , the outside of that window had been a distant star on other nights than this . 
'There were three things , said Little Dorrit , 'that I thought I would like to say , if you were alone and I might come up stairs . 
First , what I have tried to say , but never can never shall 'Hush , hush ! That is done with , and disposed of . 
Where I live , I mean . 
'Indeed ! returned Clennam quickly . 
He asked her , after short consideration , why she supposed so . 
'I think , replied Little Dorrit , 'that Mr Flintwinch must have watched me . 
And why , Clennam asked , as he turned his eyes upon the fire , bent his brows , and considered again why did she suppose that ? 'I have met him twice . 
Both times at night , when I was going back . 
, that he hardly looked as if he had met me by accident . 
'Did he say anything ? 'No he only nodded and put his head on one side . 
'The devil take his head ! mused Clennam , still looking at the fire 'it's always on one side . 
She is just the same . 
I wondered whether I had better tell her my history . 
I wondered whether I might I mean , whether you would like me to tell her . 
I will have some talk with my old friend , Mrs Affery . 
Do nothing , Little Dorrit except refresh yourself with such means as there are here . 
I entreat you to do that . 
'Thank you , I am not hungry . 
Nor , said Little Dorrit , as he softly put her glass towards her , 'nor thirsty . 
I think Maggy might like something , perhaps . 
'We will make her find pockets presently for all there is here , said Clennam 'but before we awake her , there was a third thing to say . 
You will not be offended , sir ? 'I promise that , unreservedly . 
I hardly know how to say it . 
Don't think it unreasonable or ungrateful in me , said Little Dorrit , with returning and increasing agitation . 
'No , no , no . 
I am sure it will be natural and right . 
I am not afraid that I shall put a wrong construction on it , whatever it is . 
You are coming back to see my father again ? 'Yes . 
'You have been so good and thoughtful as to write him a note , saying that you are coming to morrow ? 'Oh , that was nothing ! Yes . 
But I may be wrong . 
'No , you are not wrong , said Little Dorrit , shaking her head . 
'If we should want it so very , very badly that we cannot do without it , let me ask you for it . 
'I Will , I Will . 
'Don't encourage him to ask . 
Don't understand him if he does ask . 
Don't give it to him . 
'You don't know what he is , she said 'you don't know what he really is . 
'Pray , said Clennam , 'do not be so distressed . 
Pray , pray , Little Dorrit ! This is quite understood now . 
Relieved of this weight , Little Dorrit was nervously anxious to be gone . 
with every eatable thing upon the table , and to take especial care to leave no scrap behind . 
Maggy's pleasure in doing this and her little mother's pleasure in seeing Maggy pleased , was as good a turn as circumstances could have given to the late conversation . 
'But the gates will have been locked long ago , said Clennam , suddenly remembering it . 
'Where are you going ? 'I am going to Maggy's lodging , answered Little Dorrit . 
'I shall be quite safe , quite well taken care of . 
'I must accompany you there , said Clennam , 'I cannot let you go alone . 
'Yes , pray leave us to go there by ourselves . 
Pray do ! begged Little Dorrit . 
In course of time she came into the leading thoroughfare where the Marshalsea was , and then he saw them slacken their pace , and soon turn down a by street . 
He stopped , felt that he had no right to go further , and slowly left them . 
He had no suspicion that they ran any risk of being houseless until morning had no idea of the truth until long , long afterwards . 
Consequently , we will only knock twice , and not very loud and if we cannot wake them so , we must walk about till day . 
Once , Little Dorrit knocked with a careful hand , and listened . 
Twice , Little Dorrit knocked with a careful hand , and listened . 
All was close and still . 
'Maggy , we must do the best we can , my dear . 
We must be patient , and wait for day . 
It was a chill dark night , with a damp wind blowing , when they came out into the leading street again , and heard the clocks strike half past one . 
'In only five hours and a half , said Little Dorrit , 'we shall be able to go home . 
To speak of home , and to go and look at it , it being so near , was a natural sequence . 
They went to the closed gate , and peeped through into the court yard . 
'I hope he is sound asleep , said Little Dorrit , kissing one of the bars , 'and does not miss me . 
Come away ! Maggy would then wake up more or less fretfully , and they would wander about a little , and come back again . 
As long as eating was a novelty and an amusement , Maggy kept up pretty well . 
But that period going by , she became querulous about the cold , and shivered and whimpered . 
'It will soon be over , dear , said Little Dorrit patiently . 
'Oh it's all very fine for you , little mother , returned Maggy , 'but I'm a poor thing , only ten years old . 
At last , in the dead of the night , when the street was very still indeed , Little Dorrit laid the heavy head upon her bosom , and soothed her to sleep . 
'If it really was a party ! she thought once , as she sat there . 
'If it was light and warm and beautiful , and it was our house , and my poor dear was its master , and had never been inside these walls . 
Three o'clock , and half past three , and they had passed over London Bridge . 
They had shrunk past homeless people , lying coiled up in nooks . 
They had run from drunkards . 
They had started from slinking men , whistling and signing to one another at bye corners , or running away at full speed . 
Though everywhere the leader and the guide , Little Dorrit , happy for once in her youthful appearance , feigned to cling to and rely upon Maggy . 
They were walking slowly towards the east , already looking for the first pale streak of day , when a woman came after them . 
'What are you doing with the child ? she said to Maggy . 
She was young far too young to be there , Heaven knows ! and neither ugly nor wicked looking . 
She spoke coarsely , but with no naturally coarse voice there was even something musical in its sound . 
'What are you doing with yourself ? retorted Maggy , for want Of a better answer . 
'Can't you see , without my telling you ? 'I don't know as I can , said Maggy . 
'Killing myself ! Now I have answered you , answer me . 
What are you doing with the child ? The supposed child kept her head drooped down , and kept her form close at Maggy's side . 
'Poor thing ! said the woman . 
that you don't take more pity on this cold and trembling little hand ? She had stepped across to that side , and held the hand between her own two , chafing it . 
'Kiss a poor lost creature , dear , she said , bending her face , 'and tell me where's she taking you . 
Little Dorrit turned towards her . 
'Why , my God ! she said , recoiling , 'you're a woman ! 'Don't mind that ! said Little Dorrit , clasping one of her hands that had suddenly released hers . 
'I am not afraid of you . 
'Then you had better be , she answered . 
'Have you no mother ? 'No . 
'No father ? 'Yes , a very dear one . 
'Go home to him , and be afraid of me . 
Good night ! 'I must thank you first let me speak to you as if I really were a child . 
'You can't do it , said the woman . 
'You are kind and innocent but you can't look at me out of a child's eyes . 
I never should have touched you , but I thought that you were a child . 
And with a strange , wild cry , she went away . 
Going round by the Church , she saw lights there , and the door open and went up the steps and looked in . 
'Who's that ? cried a stout old man , who was putting on a nightcap as if he were going to bed in a vault . 
'It's no one particular , sir , said Little Dorrit . 
'Stop ! cried the man . 
'Let's have a look at you ! This caused her to turn back again in the act of going out , and to present herself and her charge before him . 
'I thought so ! said he . 
'More than that , we've got your birth in our Register , you know you're one of our curiosities . 
'Indeed ! said Little Dorrit . 
As the child of the by the bye , how did you get out so early ? 'We were shut out last night , and are waiting to get in . 
'You don't mean it ? And there's another hour good yet ! Come into the vestry . 
You'll find a fire in the vestry , on account of the painters . 
I'm waiting for the painters , or I shouldn't be here , you may depend upon it . 
One of our curiosities mustn't be cold when we have it in our power to warm her up comfortable . 
He was a very good old fellow , in his familiar way and having stirred the vestry fire , he looked round the shelves of registers for a particular volume . 
'Here you are , you see , he said , taking it down and turning the leaves . 
'Here you'll find yourself , as large as life . 
Amy , daughter of William and Fanny Dorrit . 
Born , Marshalsea Prison , Parish of St George . 
And we tell people that you have lived there , without so much as a day's or a night's absence , ever since . 
Is it true ? 'Quite true , till last night . 
'Lord ! But his surveying her with an admiring gaze suggested Something else to him , to wit 'I am sorry to see , though , that you are faint and tired . 
I'll get some cushions out of the church , and you and your friend shall lie down before the fire . 
Don't be afraid of not going in to join your father when the gate opens . 
He soon brought in the cushions , and strewed them on the ground . 
'There you are , you see . 
Again as large as life . 
Oh , never mind thanking . 
I've daughters of my own . 
And though they weren't born in the Marshalsea Prison , they might have been , if I had been , in my ways of carrying on , of your father's breed . 
I must put something under the cushion for your head . 
just the thing ! We have got Mrs Bangham in this book . 
But what makes these books interesting to most people is not who's in 'em , but who isn't who's coming , you know , and when . 
Commendingly looking back at the pillow he had improvised , he left them to their hour's repose . 
Maggy was snoring already , and Little Dorrit was soon fast asleep with her head resting on that sealed book of Fate , untroubled by its mysterious blank leaves . 
This was Little Dorrit's party . 
The shame , desertion , wretchedness , and exposure of the great capital the wet , the cold , the slow hours , and the swift clouds of the dismal night . 
This was the party from which Little Dorrit went home , jaded , in the first grey mist of a rainy morning . 
The stars , to be sure , coldly watched it when the nights and the smoke were clear enough and all bad weather stood by it with a rare fidelity . 
The place had no other adherents . 
So with whistling , singing , talking , laughing , and all pleasant human sounds . 
They leaped the gap in a moment , and went upon their way . 
The varying light of fire and candle in Mrs Clennam's room made the greatest change that ever broke the dead monotony of the spot . 
In her two long narrow windows , the fire shone sullenly all day , and sullenly all night . 
On rare occasions it flashed up passionately , as she did but for the most part it was suppressed , like her , and preyed upon itself evenly and slowly . 
She thought that as she sat thus , musing upon the question whether life was not for some people a rather dull invention , she was frightened by a sudden noise behind her . 
Mistress Affery thought that on reaching the hall , she saw the door of her liege lord's office standing open , and the room empty . 
That she then saw , on the wall over the gateway , the shadows of the two clever ones in conversation above . 
'None of your nonsense with me , said Mr Flintwinch . 
'I won't take it from you . 
Mrs Flintwinch dreamed that she stood behind the door , which was just ajar , and most distinctly heard her husband say these bold words . 
'Flintwinch , returned Mrs Clennam , in her usual strong low voice , 'there is a demon of anger in you . 
'I don't care whether there's one or a dozen , said Mr Flintwinch , forcibly suggesting in his tone that the higher number was nearer the mark . 
'What have I done , you wrathful man ? her strong voice asked . 
'Done ? said Mr Flintwinch . 
'I remonstrated with you , she began again , 'because 'I won't have it ! cried Jeremiah . 
'You dropped down upon me . 
'for having been needlessly significant to Arthur that morning . 
I have a right to complain of it as almost a breach of confidence . 
You did not mean it 'I won't have it ! interposed the contradictory Jeremiah , flinging back the concession . 
'I suppose I must leave you to speak in soliloquy if you choose , she replied , after a pause that seemed an angry one . 
'It is useless my addressing myself to a rash and headstrong old man who has a set purpose not to hear me . 
'Now , I won't take that from you either , said Jeremiah . 
'I have no such purpose . 
I have told you I did mean it . 
'This is why , then . 
Because you hadn't cleared his father to him , and you ought to have done it . 
Because , before you went into any tantrum about yourself , who are 'Hold there , Flintwinch ! she cried out in a changed voice 'you may go a word too far . 
The old man seemed to think so . 
There was another pause , and he had altered his position in the room , when he spoke again more mildly 'I was going to tell you why it was . 
Because , before you took your own part , I thought you ought to have taken the part of Arthur's father . 
Arthur's father ! I had no particular love for Arthur's father . 
He starved in the parlour , and I starved in the kitchen that was the principal difference in our positions there was not much more than a flight of breakneck stairs between us . 
I never took to him in those times I don't know that I ever took to him greatly at any time . 
He was an undecided , irresolute chap , who had everything but his orphan life scared out of him when he was young . 
to know who'd be master . 
You have stood of your own strength ever since . 
Stand of your own strength now . 
Don't lean against the dead . 
'I do not as you call it lean against the dead . 
'But you had a mind to do it , if I had submitted , growled Jeremiah , 'and that's why you drop down upon me . 
You can't forget that I didn't submit . 
Come , then , I'll tell you how it is . 
I may be a bit of an oddity in point of temper , but this is my temper I can't let anybody have entirely their own way . 
You are a determined woman , and a clever woman and when you see your purpose before you , nothing will turn you from it . 
Who knows that better than I do ? 'Nothing will turn me from it , Flintwinch , when I have justified it to myself . 
, and if you are determined to justify any object you entertain , of course you'll do it . 
'Never mind that , returned Jeremiah calmly , 'we won't enter into that question at present . 
However that may be , you carry out your purposes , and you make everything go down before them . 
Now , I won't go down before them . 
I have been faithful to you , and useful to you , and I am attached to you . 
But I can't consent , and I won't consent , and I never did consent , and I never will consent to be lost in you . 
Swallow up everybody else , and welcome . 
The peculiarity of my temper is , ma'am , that I won't be swallowed up alive . 
Perhaps this had Originally been the mainspring of the understanding between them . 
Descrying thus much of force of character in Mr Flintwinch , perhaps Mrs Clennam had deemed alliance with him worth her while . 
'Enough and more than enough of the subject , said she gloomily . 
'Unless you drop down upon me again , returned the persistent Flintwinch , 'and then you must expect to hear of it again . 
'Please to light the candle , Flintwinch , Mrs Clennam was saying , apparently wishing to draw him back into their usual tone . 
'It is nearly time for tea . 
Little Dorrit is coming , and will find me in the dark . 
Your time and mine may be a long one yet . 
When I say for ever , I mean through all our time . 
Mr Flintwinch gave this explanation with great calmness , and calmly waited for an answer . 
'Nothing more than that ? said Flintwinch , stroking his mouth and chin . 
'What should there be more than that ! What could there be more than that ! she ejaculated in her sternly wondering way . 
'Would you now , would you like to know ? said Jeremiah with a pounce as if he had sprung upon her . 
'If I cared to know , I should know already . 
Could I not have asked her any day ? 'Then you don't care to know ? 'I do not . 
Mr Flintwinch , having expelled a long significant breath said , with his former emphasis , 'For I have accidentally mind ! found out . 
'Flintwinch , said his mistress and partner , flashing into a sudden energy that made Affery start , 'why do you goad me ? Look round this room . 
Let Little Dorrit keep her secret from me , and do you keep it from me also . 
Let her come and go , unobserved and unquestioned . 
Let me suffer , and let me have what alleviation belongs to my condition . 
Is it so much , that you torment me like an evil spirit ? 'I asked you a question . 
So , say no more . 
Here the sound of the wheeled chair was heard upon the floor , and Affery's bell rang with a hasty jerk . 
At last Mr Flintwinch came shuffling down the staircase into the hall , muttering and calling 'Affery woman ! all the way . 
Affery still remaining behind her apron , he came stumbling down the kitchen stairs , candle in hand , sidled up to her , twitched her apron off , and roused her . 
'Oh Jeremiah ! cried Affery , waking . 
'What a start you gave me ! 'What have you been doing , woman ? inquired Jeremiah . 
'You've been rung for fifty times . 
'Don't you know it's her tea time ? he demanded with a vicious grin , and giving one of the legs of Mistress Affery's chair a kick . 
'Jeremiah ? Tea time ? I don't know what's come to me . 
But I got such a dreadful turn , Jeremiah , before I went off a dreaming , that I think it must be that . 
'Yoogh ! Sleepy Head ! said Mr Flintwinch , 'what are you talking about ? 'Such a strange noise , Jeremiah , and such a curious movement . 
In the kitchen here just here . 
'Rats , cats , water , drains , said Jeremiah . 
Mistress Affery negatived each with a shake of her head . 
'No , Jeremiah I have felt it before . 
This prediction stimulated Mrs Flintwinch to bestir herself , and to hasten up stairs to Mrs Clennam's chamber . 
But , for all that , she now began to entertain a settled conviction that there was something wrong in the gloomy house . 
She had not yet finished preparing Mrs Clennam's tea , when the soft knock came to the door which always announced Little Dorrit . 
After tea there came another knock at the door , announcing Arthur . 
Mistress Affery went down to let him in , and he said on entering , 'Affery , I am glad it's you . 
I want to ask you a question . 
Affery immediately replied , 'For goodness sake don't ask me nothing , Arthur ! I am frightened out of one half of my life , and dreamed out of the other . 
Don't ask me nothing ! I don't know which is which , or what is what ! and immediately started away from him , and came near him no more . 
A walk was in itself a new enjoyment to him , and one that had rarely diversified his life afar off . 
He went by Fulham and Putney , for the pleasure of strolling over the heath . 
They had risen before him fast , in the healthful exercise and the pleasant road . 
It is not easy to walk alone in the country without musing upon something . 
And he had plenty of unsettled subjects to meditate upon , though he had been walking to the Land's End . 
He was far from rich , and every day of indecision and inaction made his inheritance a source of greater anxiety to him . 
He derived this impression from something in the turn of the head , and in the figure's action of consideration , as it went on at a sufficiently sturdy walk . 
'How do you do , Mr Doyce ? said Clennam , overtaking him . 
'I am glad to see you again , and in a healthier place than the Circumlocution Office . 
'Ha ! Mr Meagles's friend ! exclaimed that public criminal , coming out of some mental combinations he had been making , and offering his hand . 
'I am glad to see you , sir . 
Will you excuse me if I forget your name ? 'Readily . 
It's not a celebrated name . 
'No , no , said Daniel , laughing . 
'And now I know what it is . 
'Meaning Twickenham ? returned Daniel . 
'I am glad to hear it . 
They were soon quite intimate , and lightened the way with a variety of conversation . 
And so he had come home . 
'it is much to be regretted , said Clennam , 'that you ever turned your thoughts that way , Mr Doyce . 
'True , sir , true to a certain extent . 
But what is a man to do ? if he has the misfortune to strike out something serviceable to the nation , he must follow where it leads him . 
'Hadn't he better let it go ? said Clennam . 
'He can't do it , said Doyce , shaking his head with a thoughtful smile . 
'It's not put into his head to be buried . 
It's put into his head to be made useful . 
You hold your life on the condition that to the last you shall struggle hard for it . 
Every man holds a discovery on the same terms . 
'The thing is as true as it ever was . 
I had when I first entered on it , and a good man he was . 
'Why , so the men of business say , he answered , resuming the walk and laughing outright . 
'I don't know why we unfortunate creatures should be supposed to want common sense , but it is generally taken for granted that we do . 
I don't think he'll find that I have been very remiss or confused in my way of conducting them but that's for him to say whoever he is not for me . 
'You have not chosen him yet , then ? 'No , sir , no . 
I have only just come to a decision to take one . 
The fact is , there's more to do than there used to be , and the Works are enough for me as I grow older . 
What with the books and correspondence , and foreign journeys for which a Principal is necessary , I can't do all . 
'He is a sagacious man in business , and has had a good apprenticeship to it . 
After this , they conversed on different subjects until they arrived at their journey's end . 
As he knew the house well , he conducted Arthur to it by the way that showed it to the best advantage . 
, on the road by the river , and just what the residence of the Meagles family ought to be . 
Let the heart swell into what discord it will , thus plays the rippling water on the prow of the ferry boat ever the same tune . 
The bell at the gate had scarcely sounded when Mr Meagles came out to receive them . 
Mr Meagles had scarcely come out , when Mrs Meagles came out . 
Mrs Meagles had scarcely come out , when Pet came out . 
Pet scarcely had come out , when Tattycoram came out . 
Never had visitors a more hospitable reception . 
Not like Marseilles , eh ? No allonging and marshonging here ! 'A different kind of beauty , indeed ! said Clennam , looking about him . 
This was Mr Meagles's invariable habit . 
Always to object to everything while he was travelling , and always to want to get back to it when he was not travelling . 
Being practical people , we never allow anybody to scare the birds and the birds , being practical people too , come about us in myriads . 
I heartily assure you , we are delighted . 
'Ah ! returned Mr Meagles . 
Bestowing this eulogium on the retired character of his retreat with a dubious shake of the head , Mr Meagles led the way into the house . 
It was just large enough , and no more was as pretty within as it was without , and was perfectly well arranged and comfortable . 
Of articles collected on his various expeditions , there was such a vast miscellany that it was like the dwelling of an amiable Corsair . 
He was no judge , he said , except of what pleased himself he had picked them up , dirt cheap , and people had considered them rather fine . 
, to be a fine Guercino . 
Daniel Doyce said perhaps he hadn't touched it , but Mr Meagles rather declined to overhear the remark . 
'Here they are , you see , said Mr Meagles . 
'I stood behind these two articles five and thirty years running , when I no more thought of gadding about than I now think of staying at home . 
When I left the Bank for good , I asked for them , and brought them away with me . 
, like the king in the poem of the four and twenty blackbirds , counting out my money . 
Clennam's eyes had strayed to a natural picture on the wall , of two pretty little girls with their arms entwined . 
'Yes , Clennam , said Mr Meagles , in a lower voice . 
It was taken some seventeen years ago . 
As I often say to Mother , they were babies then . 
'Their names ? said Arthur . 
'Ah , to be sure ! You have never heard any name but Pet . 
Pet's name is Minnie her sister's Lillie . 
'Should you have known , Mr Clennam , that one of them was meant for me ? asked Pet herself , now standing in the doorway . 
'I might have thought that both of them were meant for you , both are still so like you . 
Indeed , said Clennam , glancing from the fair original to the picture and back , 'I cannot even now say which is not your portrait . 
'D'ye hear that , Mother ? cried Mr Meagles to his wife , who had followed her daughter . 
'It's always the same , Clennam nobody can decide . 
The child to your left is Pet . 
The picture happened to be near a looking glass . 
'But come ! said Mr Meagles . 
'You have had a long walk , and will be glad to get your boots off . 
As to Daniel here , I suppose he'd never think of taking his boots off , unless we showed him a boot jack . 
'Why not ? asked Daniel , with a significant smile at Clennam . 
'Figures , and wheels , and cogs , and levers , and screws , and cylinders , and a thousand things . 
'In my calling , said Daniel , amused , 'the greater usually includes the less . 
But never mind , never mind ! Whatever pleases you , pleases me . 
No less a question than this Whether he should allow himself to fall in love with Pet ? He was twice her age . 
He was twice her age . 
Well ! He was young in appearance , young in health and strength , young in heart . 
A man was certainly not old at forty and many men were not in circumstances to marry , or did not marry , until they had attained that time of life . 
On the other hand , the question was , not what he thought of the point , but what she thought of it . 
He believed that Mr Meagles was disposed to entertain a ripe regard for him , and he knew that he had a sincere regard for Mr Meagles and his good wife . 
But the more beautiful and winning and charming she , the nearer they must always be to the necessity of approaching it . 
He came to the final resolution , as he made himself ready for dinner , that he would not allow himself to fall in love with Pet . 
There were only five , at a round table , and it was very pleasant indeed . 
, that they might have been together twenty times , and not have known so much of one another . 
'And Miss Wade , said Mr Meagles , after they had recalled a number of fellow travellers . 
'Has anybody seen Miss Wade ? 'I have , said Tattycoram . 
'Tatty ! her young mistress exclaimed . 
'You seen Miss Wade ? where ? 'Here , miss , said Tattycoram . 
'How ? An impatient glance from Tattycoram seemed , as Clennam saw it , to answer 'With my eyes ! But her only answer in words was 'I met her near the church . 
'What was she doing there I wonder ! said Mr Meagles . 
'Not going to it , I should think . 
'She had written to me first , said Tattycoram . 
'Oh , Tatty ! murmured her mistress , 'take your hands away . 
Tattycoram set her full red lips together , and crossed her arms upon her bosom . 
'Take a little time count five and twenty , Tattycoram . 
She pressed her lips together again , and took a long deep breath . 
I was to think of it , and could speak to her by the church . 
So I went there to thank her . 
Tatty dear ! Tatty stood for a moment , immovable . 
'Hey ? cried Mr Meagles . 
'Count another five and twenty , Tattycoram . 
She might have counted a dozen , when she bent and put her lips to the caressing hand . 
It patted her cheek , as it touched the owner's beautiful curls , and Tattycoram went away . 
'Now there , said Mr Meagles softly , as he gave a turn to the dumb waiter on his right hand to twirl the sugar towards himself . 
'There's a girl who might be lost and ruined , if she wasn't among practical people . 
Mother and I know , solely from being practical , that there are times when that girl's whole nature seems to roughen itself against seeing us so bound up in Pet . 
No father and mother were bound up in her , poor soul . 
I don't like to think of the way in which that unfortunate child , with all that passion and protest in her , feels when she hears the Fifth Commandment on a Sunday . 
I am always inclined to call out , Church , Count five and twenty , Tattycoram . 
'And why not , you see ? said Mr Meagles on this head . 
Mr Meagles regretted that the nature of the duties in which she was engaged , rendered Mrs Tickit unpresentable at present , but hoped to introduce her to the new visitor to morrow . 
She was an important part of the Cottage , he said , and all his friends knew her . 
That was her picture up in the corner . 
In the evening they played an old fashioned rubber and Pet sat looking over her father's hand , or singing to herself by fits and starts at the piano . 
In making it , he revoked . 
'Why , what are you thinking of , my good sir ? asked the astonished Mr Meagles , who was his partner . 
'Think of something , next time that's a dear fellow , said Mr Meagles . 
Pet laughingly believed he had been thinking of Miss Wade . 
'Why of Miss Wade , Pet ? asked her father . 
'Why , indeed ! said Arthur Clennam . 
Pet coloured a little , and went to the piano again . 
'Mr Meagles , he said , on their being left alone , 'do you remember when you advised me to go straight to London ? 'Perfectly well . 
'Right ! You can't do it too soon , said Mr Meagles . 
'Just so , said Mr Meagles , with his hands in his pockets , and with the old business expression of face that had belonged to the scales and scoop . 
'Mr Doyce mentioned incidentally , in the course of our conversation , that he was going to take your valuable advice on the subject of finding such a partner . 
If you should think our views and opportunities at all likely to coincide , perhaps you will let him know my available position . 
I speak , of course , in ignorance of the details , and they may be unsuitable on both sides . 
'No doubt , no doubt , said Mr Meagles , with the caution belonging to the scales and scoop . 
'But they will be a question of figures and accounts 'Just so , just so , said Mr Meagles , with arithmetical solidity belonging to the scales and scoop . 
And I shall be glad to enter into the subject , provided Mr Doyce responds , and you think well of it . 
If you will at present , therefore , allow me to place it in your hands , you will much oblige me . 
'Clennam , I accept the trust with readiness , said Mr Meagles . 
Of one thing you may be perfectly certain . 
Daniel is an honest man . 
'I am so sure of it that I have promptly made up my mind to speak to you . 
But , as this might have been a reason for coming to the opposite conclusion , he followed out the theme again a little way in his mind to justify himself , perhaps . 
Why should he be vexed or sore at heart ? It was not his weakness that he had imagined . 
It was nobody's , nobody's within his knowledge why should it trouble him ? And yet it did trouble him . 
CHAPTER Nobody's Rival Before breakfast in the morning , Arthur walked out to look about him . 
As the morning was fine and he had an hour on his hands , he crossed the river by the ferry , and strolled along a footpath through some meadows . 
When he came back to the towing path , he found the ferry boat on the opposite side , and a gentleman hailing it and waiting to be taken over . 
This gentleman looked barely thirty . 
He was well dressed , of a sprightly and gay appearance , a well knit figure , and a rich dark complexion . 
The ferry boat came over , however , without his receiving any sign , and when it grounded his master took him by the collar and walked him into it . 
'Not this morning , he said to the dog . 
'You won't do for ladies' company , dripping wet . 
Clennam followed the man and the dog into the boat , and took his seat . 
The dog did as he was ordered . 
The man remained standing , with his hands in his pockets , and towered between Clennam and the prospect . 
Man and dog both jumped lightly out as soon as they touched the other side , and went away . 
Clennam was glad to be rid of them . 
The church clock struck the breakfast hour as he walked up the little lane by which the garden gate was approached . 
The moment he pulled the bell a deep loud barking assailed him from within the wall . 
'I heard no dog last night , thought Clennam . 
The gate was opened by one of the rosy maids , and on the lawn were the Newfoundland dog and the man . 
'Miss Minnie is not down yet , gentlemen , said the blushing portress , as they all came together in the garden . 
Then she said to the master of the dog , 'Mr Clennam , sir , and tripped away . 
'Odd enough , Mr Clennam , that we should have met just now , said the man . 
Upon which the dog became mute . 
'Allow me to introduce myself Henry Gowan . 
'It's new to you , I believe ? said this Gowan , when Arthur had extolled the place . 
I made acquaintance with it only yesterday afternoon . 
'Ah ! Of course this is not its best aspect . 
It used to look charming in the spring , before they went away last time . 
I should like you to have seen it then . 
But for that resolution so often recalled , Clennam might have wished him in the crater of Mount Etna , in return for this civility . 
'I have had the pleasure of seeing it under many circumstances during the last three years , and it's a Paradise . 
like his dexterous impudence to call it a Paradise . 
This Gowan when he had talked about a Paradise , had gone up to her and taken her hand . 
The dog had put his great paws on her arm and laid his head against her dear bosom . 
To this Gowan had no objection . 
No , he knew he was too safe . 
Neither it , nor the touch of uneasiness on Mrs Meagles as she directed her eyes towards it , was unobserved by Clennam . 
'Well , Gowan , said Mr Meagles , even suppressing a sigh 'how goes the world with you this morning ? 'Much as usual , sir . 
Then he told how he had met Mr Clennam at the ferry , and they had come over together . 
'Mrs Gowan is well , Henry ? said Mrs Meagles . 
'My mother is quite well , thank you . 
'I have taken the liberty of making an addition to your family dinner party to day , which I hope will not be inconvenient to you or to Mr Meagles . 
I couldn't very well get out of it , he explained , turning to the latter . 
'The young fellow wrote to propose himself to me and as he is well connected , I thought you would not object to my transferring him here . 
'Who is the young fellow ? asked Mr Meagles with peculiar complacency . 
'He is one of the Barnacles . 
Tite Barnacle's son , Clarence Barnacle , who is in his father's Department . 
I can at least guarantee that the river shall not suffer from his visit . 
He won't set it on fire . 
'Aye , aye ? said Meagles . 
'A Barnacle is he ? We know something of that family , eh , Dan ? By George , they are at the top of the tree , though ! Let me see . 
Now this young fellow's father married a Stiltstalking and his father married his cousin who was a Barnacle . 
The father of that father who married a Barnacle , married a Joddleby . 
I am getting a little too far back , Gowan I want to make out what relation this young fellow is to Lord Decimus . 
His father is nephew to Lord Decimus . 
'Nephew to Lord Decimus , Mr Meagles luxuriously repeated with his eyes shut , that he might have nothing to distract him from the full flavour of the genealogical tree . 
'By George , you are right , Gowan . 
'Consequently , Lord Decimus is his great uncle . 
'But stop a bit ! said Mr Meagles , opening his eyes with a fresh discovery . 
'Then on the mother's side , Lady Stiltstalking is his great aunt . 
'Aye , aye , aye ? said Mr Meagles with much interest . 
'Indeed , indeed ? We shall be glad to see him . 
We'll entertain him as well as we can , in our humble way and we shall not starve him , I hope , at all events . 
But his good friend had a weakness which none of us need go into the next street to find , and which no amount of Circumlocution experience could long subdue in him . 
Clennam looked at Doyce but Doyce knew all about it beforehand , and looked at his plate , and made no sign , and said no word . 
'I am much obliged to you , said Gowan , to conclude the subject . 
It scarcely seemed , however , to afford Mr Meagles as much satisfaction as the Barnacle genealogy had done . 
The latter part of the day turning out wet , they were fain to keep the house , look over Mr Meagles's collection , and beguile the time with conversation . 
This Gowan had plenty to say for himself , and said it in an off hand and amusing manner . 
He applied to Daniel Doyce for help , as they stood together , looking out of window . 
'You know Mr Gowan ? he said in a low voice . 
'I have seen him here . 
Comes here every Sunday when they are at home . 
'An artist , I infer from what he says ? 'A sort of a one , said Daniel Doyce , in a surly tone . 
'What sort of a one ? asked Clennam , with a smile . 
'Why , he has sauntered into the Arts at a leisurely Pall Mall pace , said Doyce , 'and I doubt if they care to be taken quite so coolly . 
But , somehow , it had all failed . 
The prejudiced public had stood out against it obstinately . 
They had determined not to admire Lord Decimus's picture . 
Such was the substance of Clennam's discoveries concerning him , made that rainy Sunday afternoon and afterwards . 
Who is that fellow ? 'A friend of our host's . 
'He's a most ferocious Radical , you know , said Young Barnacle . 
'Is he ? How do you know ? 'Ecod , sir , he was Pitching into our people the other day in the most tremendous manner . 
Went up to our place and Pitched into my father to that extent that it was necessary to order him out . 
Came back to our Department , and Pitched into me . 
You never saw such a fellow . 
begged him to conduct Mrs Meagles to the dining room . 
And when he sat on Mrs Meagles's right hand , Mr Meagles looked as gratified as if his whole family were there . 
All the natural charm of the previous day was gone . 
The eaters of the dinner , like the dinner itself , were lukewarm , insipid , overdone and all owing to this poor little dull Young Barnacle . 
Conversationless at any time , he was now the victim of a weakness special to the occasion , and solely referable to Clennam . 
His discovery of these mistakes greatly increased his difficulties , but never released him from the necessity of looking at Clennam . 
It may be questioned , therefore , whether any one but Mr Meagles had much enjoyment of the time . 
Mr Meagles , however , thoroughly enjoyed Young Barnacle . 
'Those are not good prospects for a painter , said Clennam . 
'I thought our good friend a little changed , and out of spirits , after he came this morning ? said Clennam . 
'But not his daughter ? said Clennam . 
There was a pause on both sides . 
of the hopefulness of such a marriage . 
'There Clennam choked , and coughed , and stopped . 
'Yes , you have taken cold , said Daniel Doyce . 
But without looking at him . 
'There is an engagement between them , of course ? said Clennam airily . 
As I am told , certainly not . 
It has been solicited on the gentleman's part , but none has been made . 
Since their recent return , our friend has yielded to a weekly visit , but that is the utmost . 
Minnie would not deceive her father and mother . 
You have travelled with them , and I believe you know what a bond there is among them , extending even beyond this present life . 
All that there is between Miss Minnie and Mr Gowan , I have no doubt we see . 
'Ah ! We see enough ! cried Arthur . 
The rain fell heavily , drearily . 
It was a night of tears . 
As it was As it was , the rain fell heavily , drearily . 
CHAPTER Little Dorrit's Lover Little Dorrit had not attained her twenty second birthday without finding a lover . 
Even in the shallow Marshalsea , the ever young Archer shot off a few featherless arrows now and then from a mouldy bow , and winged a Collegian or two . 
Little Dorrit's lover , however , was not a Collegian . 
He was the sentimental son of a turnkey . 
, which could usually command a neat connection within the College walls . 
, a year older than herself , had eyed her with admiring wonder . 
When he had played with her in the yard , his favourite game had been to counterfeit locking her up in corners , and to counterfeit letting her out for real kisses . 
Young John was small of stature , with rather weak legs and very weak light hair . 
was also weak , and looked larger than the other , as if it couldn't collect itself . 
Young John was gentle likewise . 
But he was great of soul . 
Poetical , expansive , faithful . 
Though too humble before the ruler of his heart to be sanguine , Young John had considered the object of his attachment in all its lights and shades . 
Following it out to blissful results , he had descried , without self commendation , a fitness in it . 
Say things prospered , and they were united . 
She , the child of the Marshalsea he , the lock keeper . 
There was a fitness in that . 
Say he became a resident turnkey . 
She would officially succeed to the chamber she had rented so long . 
There was a beautiful propriety in that . 
It looked over the wall , if you stood on tip toe and , with a trellis work of scarlet beans and a canary or so , would become a very Arbour . 
There was a charming idea in that . 
Then , being all in all to one another , there was even an appropriate grace in the lock . 
There she was born , There she lived , There she died . 
sentiment was , that two halves made a whole . 
But Young John had never taken courage to make the declaration and it was principally on these occasions that he had returned excited to the tobacco shop , and flown at the customers . 
In this affair , as in every other , Little Dorrit herself was the last person considered . 
Her sister asserted the family gentility by flouting the poor swain as he loitered about the prison for glimpses of his dear . 
These were not the only members of the Dorrit family who turned it to account . 
The Father of the Marshalsea was supposed to know nothing about the matter , of course his poor dignity could not see so low . 
, and benignantly to smoke one in his society . 
Young Chivery , too really almost with a delicate perception of one's position here . 
A very well conducted family indeed , the Chiveries . 
The devoted Young John all this time regarded the family with reverence . 
He never dreamed of disputing their pretensions , but did homage to the miserable Mumbo jumbo they paraded . 
He was sorry that his noble mind should take offence still , he felt the fact to be not incompatible with its nobility , and sought to propitiate and conciliate that gallant soul . 
Her father , a gentleman in misfortune a gentleman of a fine spirit and courtly manners , who always bore with him he deeply honoured . 
Her sister he considered somewhat vain and proud , but a young lady of infinite accomplishments , who could not forget the past . 
It was an instinctive testimony to Little Dorrit's worth and difference from all the rest , that the poor young fellow honoured and loved her for being simply what she was . 
The Collegians were entertaining a considerable number of visitors that Sunday afternoon , and their Father kept his room for the purpose of receiving presentations . 
After making the tour of the yard , Little Dorrit's lover with a hurried heart went up stairs , and knocked with his knuckles at the Father's door . 
'Come in , come in ! said a gracious voice . 
The Father's voice , her father's , the Marshalsea's father's . 
He was seated in his black velvet cap , with his newspaper , three and sixpence accidentally left on the table , and two chairs arranged . 
Everything prepared for holding his Court . 
'Ah , Young John ! How do you do , how do you do ! 'Pretty well , I thank you , sir . 
I hope you are the same . 
'Yes , John Chivery yes . 
A few cigars , sir . 
'Thank you , Young John , thank you . 
But really , I am afraid I am too No ? Well then , I will say no more about it . 
Put them on the mantelshelf , if you please , Young John . 
And sit down , sit down . 
You are not a stranger , John . 
'Indeed , sir ? 'Yes , John . 
Miss Amy is gone for an airing . 
My young people all go out a good deal . 
But at their time of life , it's natural , John . 
'Very much so , I am sure , sir . 
He was blandly tapping his fingers on the table , and casting his eyes up at the window . 
'Amy has gone for an airing on the Iron Bridge . 
She has become quite partial to the Iron Bridge of late , and seems to like to walk there better than anywhere . 
'Your father is not on duty at present , I think , John ? 'No , sir , he comes on later in the afternoon . 
Another twirl of the great hat , and then Young John said , rising , 'I am afraid I must wish you good day , sir . 
'So soon ? Good day , Young John . 
Nay , nay , with the utmost condescension , 'never mind your glove , John . 
Shake hands with it on . 
You are no stranger here , you know . 
Highly gratified by the kindness of his reception , Young John descended the staircase . 
At first he feared she was not there but as he walked on towards the Middlesex side , he saw her standing still , looking at the water . 
She was absorbed in thought , and he wondered what she might be thinking about . 
There were the piles of city roofs and chimneys , more free from smoke than on week days and there were the distant masts and steeples . 
Perhaps she was thinking about them . 
So , in the end , he made up his mind to go on , and seem to come upon her casually in passing , and speak to her . 
The place was quiet , and now or never was the time to speak to her . 
He walked on , and she did not appear to hear his steps until he was close upon her . 
When he said 'Miss Dorrit ! she started and fell back from him , with an expression in her face of fright and something like dislike that caused him unutterable dismay . 
She had often avoided him before always , indeed , for a long , long while . 
She had turned away and glided off so often when she had seen him coming toward her , that the unfortunate Young John could not think it accidental . 
But he had hoped that it might be shyness , her retiring character , her foreknowledge of the state of his heart , anything short of aversion . 
'Miss Amy , I am afraid I disturbed you by speaking to you . 
I I came here to be alone , and I thought I was . 
'Miss Amy , I hope I don't give you any uneasiness by naming Mr Dorrit . 
At first he remained stock still then hurried after her . 
'Miss Amy , pray ! Will you have the goodness to stop a moment ? Miss Amy , if it comes to that , let ME go . 
I shall go out of my senses , if I have to think that I have driven you away like this . 
His trembling voice and unfeigned earnestness brought Little Dorrit to a stop . 
He felt it necessary to explain himself . 
He might be misunderstood supposed to mean something , or to have done something , that had never entered into his imagination . 
He begged her to hear him explain himself , as the greatest favour she could show him . 
'Miss Amy , I know very well that your family is far above mine . 
It were vain to conceal it . 
There never was a Chivery a gentleman that ever I heard of , and I will not commit the meanness of making a false representation on a subject so momentous . 
Miss Amy , I know very well that your high souled brother , and likewise your spirited sister , spurn me from a height . 
There really was a genuineness in the poor fellow , and a contrast between the hardness of his hat and the softness of his heart , that was moving . 
Little Dorrit entreated him to disparage neither himself nor his station , and , above all things , to divest himself of any idea that she supposed hers to be superior . 
This gave him a little comfort . 
'Miss Amy , he then stammered , 'I have had for a long time ages they seem to me Revolving ages a heart cherished wish to say something to you . 
The mournfulness of his spirits , and the gorgeousness of his appearance , might have made him ridiculous , but that his delicacy made him respectable . 
Little Dorrit learnt from it what to do . 
'Never , Miss Amy ? 'No , if you please . 
'O Lord ! gasped Young John . 
'But perhaps you will let me , instead , say something to you . 
I want to say it earnestly , and with as plain a meaning as it is possible to express . 
we ceased to be long ago , and never can be any more . 
It will be much better for you , and much better for others , if you will do that instead of what you are doing now . 
Young John dolefully protested that he would try to bear it in mind , and would be heartily glad to do anything she wished . 
'As to me , said Little Dorrit , 'think as little of me as you can the less , the better . 
I particularly want you to remember , that when I come outside the gate , I am unprotected and solitary . 
He would try to do anything she wished . 
You are so generous that I know I can trust to you for that and I do and I always will . 
I am going to show you , at once , that I fully trust you . 
I know it is only necessary for me to tell you so , to be quite sure that you will never come here again in search of me . 
And I am quite sure ! She might rely upon it , said Young John . 
He was a miserable wretch , but her word was more than a law for him . 
'And good bye , John , said Little Dorrit . 
'And I hope you will have a good wife one day , and be a happy man . 
I am sure you will deserve to be happy , and you will be , John . 
'Oh , don't cry , said Little Dorrit piteously . 
'Don't , don't ! Good bye , John . 
God bless you ! 'Good bye , Miss Amy . 
They walked up and down the yard on the evening of Little Dorrit's Sunday interview with her lover on the Iron Bridge . 
He held the usual screwed bit of whitey brown paper in his hand , from which he ever and again unscrewed a spare pinch of snuff . 
'You are a little low this evening , Frederick , said the Father of the Marshalsea . 
'Anything the matter ? 'The matter ? He stared for a moment , and then dropped his head and eyes again . 
'No , William , no . 
'If you could be persuaded to smarten yourself up a little , Frederick 'Aye , aye ! said the old man hurriedly . 
'I think , William , said the object of his affectionate consideration , 'that I am tired , and will go home to bed . 
'My dear Frederick , returned the other , 'don't let me detain you don't sacrifice your inclination to me . 
'Late hours , and a heated atmosphere , and years , I suppose , said Frederick , 'weaken me . 
Here is the parade , always at your service . 
Why not use it more regularly than you do ? 'Hah ! sighed the other . 
'Yes , yes , yes , yes . 
'But it is of no use saying yes , yes , my dear Frederick , the Father of the Marshalsea in his mild wisdom persisted , 'unless you act on that assent . 
Consider my case , Frederick . 
I am a kind of example . 
Necessity and time have taught me what to do . 
I have impressed upon Amy during many years , that I must have my meals punctually . 
Amy has grown up in a sense of the importance of these arrangements , and you know what a good girl she is . 
The brother only sighed again , as he plodded dreamily along , 'Hah ! Yes , yes , yes , yes . 
I wish I could rouse you , my good Frederick you want to be roused . 
'Yes , William , yes . 
No doubt , returned the other , lifting his dim eyes to his face . 
'But I am not like you . 
The time had been when the Father himself had wept , in the shades of that yard , as his own poor wife had wept . 
He was inclined to remonstrate , and to express his opinion that people who couldn't get on without crying , had no business there . 
On this Sunday evening , he accompanied his brother to the gate with an air of endurance and clemency being in a bland temper and graciously disposed to overlook the tears . 
with his key , hoped he found himself tolerable . 
'Thank you , Chivery , quite well . 
And you ? Mr Chivery said in a low growl , 'Oh ! he was all right . 
Which was his general way of acknowledging inquiries after his health when a little sullen . 
'I had a visit from Young John to day , Chivery . 
And very smart he looked , I assure you . 
So Mr Chivery had heard . 
Mr Chivery must confess , however , that his wish was that the boy didn't lay out so much money upon it . 
For what did it bring him in ? It only brought him in wexation . 
And he could get that anywhere for nothing . 
'How vexation , Chivery ? asked the benignant father . 
'No odds , returned Mr Chivery . 
Mr Frederick going out ? 'Yes , Chivery , my brother is going home to bed . 
He is tired , and not quite well . 
Take care , Frederick , take care . 
The Father of the Marshalsea showed the amiable solicitude of a superior being that he should come to no harm . 
'Be so kind as to keep the door open a moment , Chivery , that I may see him go along the passage and down the steps . 
Be careful how you cross , Frederick . 
But he did not receive it with unqualified assent on the contrary , he said , No , gentlemen , no let them not misunderstand him . 
to know that he was safe within the walls . 
Still , it must be remembered that to support an existence there during many years , required a certain combination of qualities he did not say high qualities , but qualities moral qualities . 
Was his beloved brother Frederick that man ? No. They saw him , even as it was , crushed . 
There , the table was laid for his supper , and his old grey gown was ready for him on his chair back at the fire . 
His daughter put her little prayer book in her pocket had she been praying for pity on all prisoners and captives ! and rose to welcome him . 
Uncle had gone home , then ? she asked as she changed his coat and gave him his black velvet cap . 
Yes , uncle had gone home . 
Had her father enjoyed his walk ? Why , not much , Amy not much . 
No ! Did he not feel quite well ? As she stood behind him , leaning over his chair so lovingly , he looked with downcast eyes at the fire . 
An uneasiness stole over him that was like a touch of shame and when he spoke , as he presently did , it was in an unconnected and embarrassed manner . 
'Something , I hem ! I don't know what , has gone wrong with Chivery . 
He is not ha ! not nearly so obliging and attentive as usual to night . 
It hem ! it's a little thing , but it puts me out , my love . 
Her arm was on his shoulder , but she did not look in his face while he spoke . 
Bending her head she looked another way . 
'I hem ! I can't think , Amy , what has given Chivery offence . 
He is generally so so very attentive and respectful . 
And to night he was quite quite short with me . 
Other people there too ! Why , good Heaven ! if I was to lose the support and recognition of Chivery and his brother officers , I might starve to death here . 
'I ha ! I can't think what it's owing to . 
I am sure I cannot imagine what the cause of it is . 
Captain Martin was a gentleman and a man of honour , and I put it to him first to give me his his own opinion . 
I hardly know how I have strayed into this story . 
His supper was cooking in a saucepan on the fire , and , when she moved , it was to make it ready for him on the table . 
He took his usual seat , she took hers , and he began his meal . 
They did not , as yet , look at one another . 
At length he pushed his plate from him , and spoke aloud with the strangest inconsistency . 
'Amy , he went on in a suppressed voice , trembling violently , and looking at her as wildly as if he had gone mad . 
I was young , I was accomplished , I was good looking , I was independent by God I was , child ! and people sought me out , and envied me . 
Envied me ! 'Dear father ! She tried to take down the shaking arm that he flourished in the air , but he resisted , and put her hand away . 
'If I had but a picture of myself in those days , though it was ever so ill done , you would be proud of it , you would be proud of it . 
But I have no such thing . 
Let his children have that clue to what he was . 
Unless my face , when I am dead , subsides into the long departed look they say such things happen , I don't know my children will have never seen me . 
'Let it lie there , father . 
'And yet I have some respect here . 
I have made some stand against it . 
I am not quite trodden down . 
Go out and ask who is the chief person in the place . 
They'll tell you it's your father . 
Go out and ask who is never trifled with , and who is always treated with some delicacy . 
They'll say , your father . 
will make more talk , and perhaps more grief , than any that has ever gone out at the gate . 
should have trudged the dusty roads respectfully . 
No one else ever beheld him in the details of his humiliation . 
There was a classical daughter once perhaps who ministered to her father in his prison as her mother had ministered to her . 
While he smoked out his cigar in peace , she made his bed , and put the small room in order for his repose . 
Being weary then , owing to the advanced hour and his emotions , he came out of his chair to bless her and wish her Good night . 
All this time he had never once thought of HER dress , her shoes , her need of anything . 
No other person upon earth , save herself , could have been so unmindful of her wants . 
He kissed her many times with 'Bless you , my love . 
'Father , dear , I am not tired let me come back presently , when you are in bed , and sit by you . 
He asked her , with an air of protection , if she felt solitary ? 'Yes , father . 
'Then come back by all means , my love . 
'I shall be very quiet , father . 
'Don't think of me , my dear , he said , giving her his kind permission fully . 
'Come back by all means . 
He seemed to be dozing when she returned , and she put the low fire together very softly lest she should awake him . 
But he overheard her , and called out who was that ? 'Only Amy , father . 
'Amy , my child , come here . 
I want to say a word to you . 
He raised himself a little in his low bed , as she kneeled beside it to bring her face near him and put his hand between hers . 
O ! Both the private father and the Father of the Marshalsea were strong within him then . 
'My love , you have had a life of hardship here . 
No companions , no recreations , many cares I am afraid ? 'Don't think of that , dear . 
'You know my position , Amy . 
I have not been able to do much for you but all I have been able to do , I have done . 
'Yes , my dear father , she rejoined , kissing him . 
'I know , I know . 
'It is all I could do for my children I have done it . 
That child had no doubts , asked herself no question , for she was but too content to see him with a lustre round his head . 
Poor dear , good dear , truest , kindest , dearest , were the only words she had for him , as she hushed him to rest . 
She never left him all that night . 
The spikes had never looked so sharp and cruel , nor the bars so heavy , nor the prison space so gloomy and contracted . 
Tip had turned his liberty to hopeful account by becoming a billiard marker . 
Whoever had paid him the compliment , he very readily accepted the compliment with HIS compliments , and there was an end of it . 
, and drank the beer of the Collegians . 
One solid stationary point in the looseness of this gentleman's character was , that he respected and admired his sister Amy . 
When this spirited young man and his sister had begun systematically to produce the family skeleton for the overawing of the College , this narrative cannot precisely state . 
Probably at about the period when they began to dine on the College charity . 
Little Dorrit was late on the Monday morning , for her father slept late , and afterwards there was his breakfast to prepare and his room to arrange . 
She then got on her bonnet and went out , having been anxious to get out much sooner . 
Little Dorrit , left to herself , and knocked against by somebody every moment , was quite bewildered , when she heard her sister's voice . 
All these young ladies wanted ironing , and all had a curious way of looking everywhere while they chattered . 
'The notion of you among professionals , Amy , is really the last thing I could have conceived ! said her sister . 
'Why , how did you ever get here ? 'I don't know . 
The lady who told you I was here , was so good as to bring me in . 
'Like you quiet little things ! You can make your way anywhere , I believe . 
I couldn't have managed it , Amy , though I know so much more of the world . 
It was the family custom to lay it down as family law , that she was a plain domestic little creature , without the great and sage experience of the rest . 
This family fiction was the family assertion of itself against her services . 
Not to make too much of them . 
'Well ! And what have you got on your mind , Amy ? Of course you have got something on your mind about me ? said Fanny . 
She spoke as if her sister , between two and three years her junior , were her prejudiced grandmother . 
The sprightly gentleman with the black hair as suddenly put his head round the beam on the right , and said , 'Look out there , darlings ! and also disappeared . 
Thereupon all the young ladies rose and began shaking their skirts out behind . 
'Now , ladies ! said the boy in the Scotch cap . 
'Now , darlings ! said the gentleman with the black hair . 
They were every one gone in a moment , and the music and the dancing feet were heard again . 
Little Dorrit sat down in a golden chair , made quite giddy by these rapid interruptions . 
'Stop a moment , Amy , and let them get away before us , whispered Fanny . 
'I am interested , Fanny , and concerned in anything that concerns you . 
'So you are , so you are , and you are the best of Amys . 
If I am ever a little provoking , I am sure you'll consider what a thing it is to occupy my position and feel a consciousness of being superior to it . 
I shouldn't care , said the Daughter of the Father of the Marshalsea , 'if the others were not so common . 
None of them have come down in the world as we have . 
They are all on their own level . 
Little Dorrit mildly looked at the speaker , but did not interrupt her . 
Fanny took out her handkerchief , and rather angrily wiped her eyes . 
'I was not born where you were , you know , Amy , and perhaps that makes a difference . 
My dear child , when we get rid of Uncle , you shall know all about it . 
We'll drop him at the cook's shop where he is going to dine . 
Fanny opening her reticule , as they surveyed these things , produced from that repository a shilling and handed it to Uncle . 
'Now , Amy , said her sister , 'come with me , if you are not too tired to walk to Harley Street , Cavendish Square . 
, made her sister wonder however , she expressed her readiness to go to Harley Street , and thither they directed their steps . 
Arrived at that grand destination , Fanny singled out the handsomest house , and knocking at the door , inquired for Mrs Merdle . 
This peculiarity has been observed in birds of quite another feather , climbing upon golden wires . 
The room was far more splendid than anything Little Dorrit had ever imagined , and would have been splendid and costly in any eyes . 
She looked in amazement at her sister and would have asked a question , but that Fanny with a warning frown pointed to a curtained doorway of communication with another room . 
The curtain shook next moment , and a lady , raising it with a heavily ringed hand , dropped it behind her again as she entered . 
The lady was not young and fresh from the hand of Nature , but was young and fresh from the hand of her maid . 
She had large unfeeling handsome eyes , and dark unfeeling handsome hair , and a broad unfeeling handsome bosom , and was made the most of in every particular . 
Either because she had a cold , or because it suited her face , she wore a rich white fillet tied over her head and under her chin . 
'Mrs Merdle , said Fanny . 
'I am glad to see your sister , Miss Dorrit . 
I did not remember that you had a sister . 
'I did not mention that I had , said Fanny . 
'Ah ! Mrs Merdle curled the little finger of her left hand as who should say , 'I have caught you . 
I know you didn't ! All her action was usually with her left hand because her hands were not a pair and left being much the whiter and plumper of the two . 
Then she added 'Sit down , and composed herself voluptuously , in a nest of crimson and gold cushions , on an ottoman near the parrot . 
'Also professional ? said Mrs Merdle , looking at Little Dorrit through an eye glass . 
Fanny answered No. 'No , said Mrs Merdle , dropping her glass . 
'Has not a professional air . 
Very pleasant but not professional . 
And as I had engaged to call upon you once more , I thought I might take the liberty of bringing her with me , when perhaps you would tell her . 
I wish her to know , and perhaps you will tell her ? 'Do you think , at your sister's age hinted Mrs Merdle . 
'She is much older than she looks , said Fanny 'almost as old as I am . 
, that I am glad to hear that . 
'But , resumed Mrs Merdle , 'we must take it as we find it . 
, we must consult it . 
It is the common lot . 
of two or three and twenty . 
Fanny set her lips , and her eyes looked half triumphantly at her sister . 
'A son of two or three and twenty . 
He is a little gay , a thing Society is accustomed to in young men , and he is very impressible . 
Perhaps he inherits that misfortune . 
I am very impressible myself , by nature . 
The weakest of creatures my feelings are touched in a moment . 
'So he is very impressible . 
Not a misfortune in our natural state I dare say , but we are not in a natural state . 
Much to be lamented , no doubt , particularly by myself , who am a child of nature if I could but show it but so it is . 
In saying the stage , I mean the people on it of the female sex . 
She passed her white hands over one another , observant of the sisters now and the rings upon her fingers grated against each other with a hard sound . 
'As your sister will tell you , when I found what the theatre was I was much surprised and much distressed . 
, had brought him to the point of proposing marriage , my feelings were of the profoundest anguish acute . 
She traced the outline of her left eyebrow , and put it right . 
I made myself known to your sister . 
'Miss Dorrit , said Mrs Merdle , after frostily looking at her through her glass , 'precisely what I was on the point of telling your sister , in pursuance of your request . 
Much obliged to you for recalling it so accurately and anticipating me . 
'And I told you , Mrs Merdle , said Fanny , 'that we might be unfortunate , but we are not common . 
'I think , the very words , Miss Dorrit , assented Mrs Merdle . 
, was eminently superior , and was acknowledged by every one . 
'Quite accurate , rejoined Mrs Merdle . 
Perhaps you will be so kind as to tell my sister the rest . 
we should feel obliged to recoil with abhorrence . 
In short , I made an appeal to that laudable pride in your sister . 
'Well , Miss Dorrit , assented Mrs Merdle , 'perhaps I might have mentioned that before . 
Little Dorrit looked sorry , and glanced at Fanny with a troubled face . 
'Also , said Mrs Merdle , 'as to promise to give me the present pleasure of a closing interview , and of parting with her on the best of terms . 
'Adieu , Miss Dorrit , with best wishes , said Mrs Merdle . 
A more primitive state of society would be delicious to me . 
'Well ? said Fanny , when they had gone a little way without speaking . 
'Have you nothing to say , Amy ? 'Oh , I don't know what to say ! she answered , distressed . 
'You didn't like this young man , Fanny ? 'Like him ? He is almost an idiot . 
'You little Fool ! returned her sister , shaking her with the sharp pull she gave her arm . 
'Have you no spirit at all ? But that's just the way ! You have no self respect , you have no becoming pride . 
'Don't say that , dear Fanny . 
I do what I can for them . 
'You do what you can for them ! repeated Fanny , walking her on very fast . 
'Then make her pay for it , you mean little thing . 
When they arrived there , they found the old man practising his clarionet in the dolefullest manner in a corner of the room . 
When at last Fanny sat down to eat and drink , she threw the table implements about and was angry with her bread , much as her father had been last night . 
Because I am a dancer ! 'O Fanny ! 'And Tip , too , poor fellow . 
She is to disparage him just as much as she likes , without any check I suppose because he has been in the law , and the docks , and different things . 
Why , it was your doing , Amy . 
You might at least approve of his being defended . 
'And your father , your poor father , Amy . 
Because he is not free to show himself and to speak for himself , you would let such people insult him with impunity . 
If you don't feel for yourself because you go out to work , you might at least feel for him , I should think , knowing what he has undergone so long . 
Poor Little Dorrit felt the injustice of this taunt rather sharply . 
The remembrance of last night added a barbed point to it . 
She said nothing in reply , but turned her chair from the table towards the fire . 
Uncle , after making one more pause , blew a dismal wail and went on again . 
After that , her crying became remorseful , and she got up and put her arms round her sister . 
'Perhaps I might , Fanny , said the mild Little Dorrit . 
O yes ! 'And while you have been thinking of the dinner or the clothes , I may have been thinking , you know , of the family . 
Now , may it not be so , Amy ? Little Dorrit again nodded 'Yes , with a more cheerful face than heart . 
Little Dorrit parted from them at the door , and hastened back to the Marshalsea . 
It fell dark there sooner than elsewhere , and going into it that evening was like going into a deep trench . 
The shadow of the wall was on every object . 
Not least upon the figure in the old grey gown and the black velvet cap , as it turned towards her when she opened the door of the dim room . 
'Why not upon me too ! thought Little Dorrit , with the door Yet in her hand . 
'It was not unreasonable in Fanny . 
Like unexceptionable Society , the opposing rows of houses in Harley Street were very grim with one another . 
Everybody knows how like the street the two dinner rows of people who take their stand by the street will be . 
Intruders there were in Harley Street , of whom it was not aware but Mr and Mrs Merdle it delighted to honour . 
Society was aware of Mr and Mrs Merdle . 
Society had said 'Let us license them let us know them . 
Mr Merdle was immensely rich a man of prodigious enterprise a Midas without the ears , who turned all he touched to gold . 
He was in everything good , from banking to building . 
He was in Parliament , of course . 
He was in the City , necessarily . 
He was Chairman of this , Trustee of that , President of the other . 
This great and fortunate man had provided that extensive bosom which required so much room to be unfeeling enough in , with a nest of crimson and gold some fifteen years before . 
It was not a bosom to repose upon , but it was a capital bosom to hang jewels upon . 
Mr Merdle wanted something to hang jewels upon , and he bought it for the purpose . 
Storr and Mortimer might have married on the same speculation . 
Like all his other speculations , it was sound and successful . 
The jewels showed to the richest advantage . 
The bosom moving in Society with the jewels displayed upon it , attracted general admiration . 
Society approving , Mr Merdle was satisfied . 
He was the most disinterested of men , did everything for Society , and got as little for himself out of all his gain and care , as a man might . 
That is to say , it may be supposed that he got all he wanted , otherwise with unlimited wealth he would have got it . 
, and take up all its drafts upon him for tribute . 
, he hardly seemed to enjoy himself much , and was mostly to be found against walls and behind doors . 
The colonel's son was Mrs Merdle's only child . 
He was of a chuckle headed , high shouldered make , with a general appearance of being , not so much a young man as a swelled boy . 
This happy result Mr Merdle would have considered well attained , though Mr Sparkler had been a more expensive article . 
And he did not get Mr Sparkler by any means cheap for Society , even as it was . 
'I am told , said Bishop magnate to Horse Guards , 'that Mr Merdle has made another enormous hit . 
They say a hundred thousand pounds . 
Horse Guards had heard two . 
Bar , handling his persuasive double eye glass , was by no means clear but that it might be four . 
It was one of those happy strokes of calculation and combination , the result of which it was difficult to estimate . 
It was one of those instances of a comprehensive grasp , associated with habitual luck and characteristic boldness , of which an age presented us but few . 
But here was Brother Bellows , who had been in the great Bank case , and who could probably tell us more . 
Admiralty said Mr Merdle was a wonderful man , Treasury said he was a new power in the country , and would be able to buy up the whole House of Commons . 
Bishop said he was glad to think that this wealth flowed into the coffers of a gentleman who was always disposed to maintain the best interests of Society . 
Mr Merdle himself was usually late on these occasions , as a man still detained in the clutch of giant enterprises when other men had shaken off their dwarfs for the day . 
On this occasion , he was the last arrival . 
Treasury said Merdle's work punished him a little . 
Bishop said he was glad to think that this wealth flowed into the coffers of a gentleman who accepted it with meekness . 
Powder ! There was so much Powder in waiting , that it flavoured the dinner . 
Pulverous particles got into the dishes , and Society's meats had a seasoning of first rate footmen . 
Mr Merdle took down a countess who was secluded somewhere in the core of an immense dress , to which she was in the proportion of the heart to the overgrown cabbage . 
Society had everything it could want , and could not want , for dinner . 
It had everything to look at , and everything to eat , and everything to drink . 
It is to be hoped it enjoyed itself for Mr Merdle's own share of the repast might have been paid for with eighteenpence . 
The chief butler was the next magnificent institution of the day . 
He was the stateliest man in the company . 
He did nothing , but he looked on as few other men could have done . 
He was Mr Merdle's last gift to Society . 
Mr Merdle didn't want him , and was put out of countenance when the great creature looked at him but inappeasable Society would have him and had got him . 
The invisible countess carried out the Green at the usual stage of the entertainment , and the file of beauty was closed up by the bosom . 
Bar fell into discussion with Horse Guards concerning courts martial . 
Brothers Bellows and Bench struck in . 
Mr Merdle sat silent , and looked at the table cloth . 
To extend the triumphs of such men was to extend the triumphs and resources of the nation and Treasury felt he gave Mr Merdle to understand patriotic on the subject . 
'Thank you , my lord , said Mr Merdle 'thank you . 
I accept your congratulations with pride , and I am glad you approve . 
'Why , I don't unreservedly approve , my dear Mr Merdle . 
Because , smiling Treasury turned him by the arm towards the sideboard and spoke banteringly , 'it never can be worth your while to come among us and help us . 
In fact , as a duty that he owed to Society . 
Mr Merdle intimated that Society was the apple of his eye , and that its claims were paramount to every other consideration . 
Treasury moved on , and Bar came up . 
, on remarkably advantageous terms . 
Such a purchase would involve not only a great legitimate political influence , but some half dozen church presentations of considerable annual value . 
Mr Merdle again expressed himself as wholly devoted to that object of his constant consideration , and Bar took his persuasive eye glass up the grand staircase . 
Bishop then came undesignedly sidling in the direction of the sideboard . 
, were aware of their importance , judiciously governed and rightly distributed , to the welfare of our brethren at large . 
Mr Merdle with humility expressed his conviction that Bishop couldn't mean him , and with inconsistency expressed his high gratification in Bishop's good opinion . 
Society looked to such men as his good friend to do such things . 
It was not that HE looked to them , but that Society looked to them . 
Bishop then betook himself up stairs , and the other magnates gradually floated up after him until there was no one left below but Mr Merdle . 
Among the evening magnates was a famous physician , who knew everybody , and whom everybody knew . 
On entering at the door , he came upon Mr Merdle drinking his tea in a corner , and touched him on the arm . 
'Oh ! It's you ! 'Any better to day ? 'No , said Mr Merdle , 'I am no better . 
'A pity I didn't see you this morning . 
Pray come to me to morrow , or let me come to you . 
'I will come to morrow as I drive by . 
Bar and Bishop had both been bystanders during this short dialogue , and as Mr Merdle was swept away by the crowd , they made their remarks upon it to the Physician . 
be restored to their tone by a gentle and yet generous stimulant ? 'Yes , said the physician , 'yes , you are both right . 
But I may as well tell you that I can find nothing the matter with Mr Merdle . 
He has the constitution of a rhinoceros , the digestion of an ostrich , and the concentration of an oyster . 
As to nerves , Mr Merdle is of a cool temperament , and not a sensitive man is about as invulnerable , I should say , as Achilles . 
How such a man should suppose himself unwell without reason , you may think strange . 
But I have found nothing the matter with him . 
He may have some deep seated recondite complaint . 
I only say , that at present I have not found it out . 
Even on himself , its shadow was faint enough as he moved about among the throng , receiving homage . 
Had he that deep seated recondite complaint , and did any doctor find it out ? Patience . 
in the meantime , the shadow of the Marshalsea wall was a real darkening influence , and could be seen on the Dorrit Family at any stage of the sun's course . 
CHAPTER A Puzzle Mr Clennam did not increase in favour with the Father of the Marshalsea in the ratio of his increasing visits . 
The father went so far as to say , in his private family circle , that he feared Mr Clennam was not a man of high instincts . 
It was on one particular afternoon that Mr Chivery surprised him all at once , and stood forth from his companions in bold relief . 
I ask your pardon , sir , said Mr Chivery in a secret manner 'but which way might you be going ? 'I am going over the Bridge . 
He saw in Mr Chivery , with some astonishment , quite an Allegory of Silence , as he stood with his key on his lips . 
, Tobacconists , Importers of pure Havannah Cigars , Bengal Cheroots , and fine flavoured Cubas , Dealers in Fancy Snuffs , C. C. It an't tobacco business , said Mr Chivery . 
'The truth is , it's my wife . 
She's wishful to say a word to you , sir , upon a point respecting yes , said Mr Chivery , answering Clennam's look of apprehension with a nod , 'respecting her . 
'I will make a point of seeing your wife directly . 
It an't above ten minutes out of your way . 
Arthur Clennam , with the card in his hand , betook himself to the address set forth upon it , and speedily arrived there . 
It was a very small establishment , wherein a decent woman sat behind the counter working at her needle . 
Arthur mentioned his name , and his having promised to call , on the solicitation of Mr Chivery . 
About something relating to Miss Dorrit , he believed . 
Mrs Chivery at once laid aside her work , rose up from her seat behind the counter , and deploringly shook her head . 
'You may see him now , said she , 'if you'll condescend to take a peep . 
With these mysterious words , she preceded the visitor into a little parlour behind the shop , with a little window in it commanding a very little dull back yard . 
'Our John , said Mrs Chivery . 
Not to be deficient in interest , Clennam asked what he might be doing there ? 'It's the only change he takes , said Mrs Chivery , shaking her head afresh . 
'He won't go out , even in the back yard , when there's no linen but when there's linen to keep the neighbours' eyes off , he'll sit there , hours . 
'Please to take a seat , sir , said Mrs Chivery . 
'Sir , said she in continuation , 'you are acquainted with the family , and have interested yourself with the family , and are influential with the family . 
Does she know your son ? 'Brought up together , sir , said Mrs Chivery . 
His cane alone would have told it long ago , if nothing else had . 
Young men like John don't take to ivory hands a pinting , for nothing . 
How did I first know it myself ? Similarly . 
'Perhaps Miss Dorrit may not be so ready as you , you see . 
'Then she knows it , sir , said Mrs Chivery , 'by word of mouth . 
'Are you sure ? 'Sir , said Mrs Chivery , 'sure and certain as in this house I am . 
Never been himself in this house since . 
Our John has every one's good word and every one's good wish . 
He played with her as a child when in that yard a child she played . 
He has known her ever since . 
He went out upon the Sunday afternoon when in this very parlour he had dined , and met her , with appointment or without appointment which , I do not pretend to say . 
He made his offer to her . 
Her brother and sister is high in their views , and against Our John . 
Her father is all for himself in his views and against sharing her with any one . 
Mrs Chivery considered the latter precaution superfluous , but said she would try . 
She shook her head as if she had not derived all the comfort she had fondly expected from this interview , but thanked him nevertheless for the trouble he had kindly taken . 
They then parted good friends , and Arthur walked away . 
He had scarcely set foot upon it , when he saw Little Dorrit walking on before him . 
It was a pleasant day , with a light breeze blowing , and she seemed to have that minute come there for air . 
He had left her in her father's room within an hour . 
It was a timely chance , favourable to his wish of observing her face and manner when no one else was by . 
He quickened his pace but before he reached her , she turned her head . 
'Have I startled you ? he asked . 
'I thought I knew the step , she answered , hesitating . 
'And did you know it , Little Dorrit ? You could hardly have expected mine . 
'I did not expect any . 
But when I heard a step , I thought it sounded like yours . 
'Are you going further ? 'No , sir , I am only walking her for a little change . 
They walked together , and she recovered her confiding manner with him , and looked up in his face as she said , after glancing around 'It is so strange . 
Perhaps you can hardly understand it . 
I sometimes have a sensation as if it was almost unfeeling to walk here . 
'Unfeeling ? 'To see the river , and so much sky , and so many objects , and such change and motion . 
Then to go back , you know , and find him in the same cramped place . 
'Ah yes ! But going back , you must remember that you take with you the spirit and influence of such things to cheer him . 
'Do I ? I hope I may ! I am afraid you fancy too much , sir , and make me out too powerful . 
If you were in prison , could I bring such comfort to you ? 'Yes , Little Dorrit , I am sure of it . 
He gathered from a tremor on her lip , and a passing shadow of great agitation on her face , that her mind was with her father . 
He remained silent for a few moments , that she might regain her composure . 
She had been trotting along , so preoccupied and busy that she had not recognised them until they turned upon her . 
She was now in a moment so conscience stricken that her very basket partook of the change . 
'Maggy , you promised me to stop near father . 
'So I would , Little Mother , only he wouldn't let me . 
If he takes and sends me out I must go . 
'I'm a going So and So . 
There ! That's where I am a going to , said Maggy . 
'I'm a going So and So . 
It ain't you , Little Mother , that's got anything to do with it it's you , you know , said Maggy , addressing Arthur . 
'You'd better come , So and So , and let me take and give 'em to you . 
'We will not be so particular as that , Maggy . 
Give them me here , said Clennam in a low voice . 
'Well , then , come across the road , answered Maggy in a very loud whisper . 
'Little Mother wasn't to know nothing of it , and she would never have known nothing of it if you had only gone So and So , instead of bothering and loitering about . 
I must do what I am told . 
They ought to be ashamed of themselves for telling me . 
Clennam crossed to the other side , and hurriedly opened the letters . 
He then commissioned Maggy to return with his replies , and gave her the shilling of which the failure of her supplemental enterprise would have disappointed her otherwise . 
When he rejoined Little Dorrit , and they had begun walking as before , she said all at once 'I think I had better go . 
I had better go home . 
'Don't be distressed , said Clennam , 'I have answered the letters . 
You know what they were . 
'But I am afraid , she returned , 'to leave him , I am afraid to leave any of them . 
When I am gone , they pervert but they don't mean it even Maggy . 
'It was a very innocent commission that she undertook , poor thing . 
And in keeping it secret from you , she supposed , no doubt , that she was only saving you uneasiness . 
'Yes , I hope so , I hope so . 
But I had better go home ! It was but the other day that my sister told me I had become so used to the prison that I had its tone and character . 
I am sure it must be when I see these things . 
it is unfeeling in me to be here , when I can do the least thing there . 
'Don't call it home , my child ! he entreated . 
'It is always painful to me to hear you call it home . 
'I hope not , O I hope not ! But it is better for me to stay there much better , much more dutiful , much happier . 
Please don't go with me , let me go by myself . 
Good bye , God bless you . 
Thank you , thank you . 
He felt that it was better to respect her entreaty , and did not move while her slight form went quickly away from him . 
When it had fluttered out of sight , he turned his face towards the water and stood thinking . 
Something had made her keenly and additionally sensitive just now . 
And the poor child Little Dorrit thought of him too faithfully , ah , too faithfully ! in the shadow of the Marshalsea wall . 
If it should come to nothing after all , he will respect my confidence . 
Unless I was sure of that to begin with , I should have nothing to do with him . 
And there , you see , said Mr Meagles , 'you have Daniel Doyce all over . 
'Oh , yes , to be sure . 
Not a doubt of it . 
Odd , but very honourable . 
No matter , Meagles that would never do . 
Whereas , says he , Mr Clennam might now believe , if I entertained his proposition , that I had a sinister and designing motive in what was open free speech . 
Which I can't bear , says he , which I really am too proud to bear . 
'I should as soon suspect 'Of course you would , interrupted Mr Meagles , 'and so I told him . 
could have got his leg over it . 
This business like obstacle surmounted , he then stipulated that before resuming with you I should look over the books and form my own opinion . 
I looked over the books , and formed my own opinion . 
Is it , on the whole , for , or against ? says he . 
For , says I. Then , says he , you may now , my good friend , give Mr Clennam the means of forming his opinion . 
To enable him to do which , without bias and with perfect freedom , I shall go out of town for a week . 
And he's gone , said Mr Meagles that's the rich conclusion of the thing . 
'Leaving me , said Clennam , 'with a high sense , I must say , of his candour and his 'Oddity , Mr Meagles struck in . 
'I should think so ! It was not exactly the word on Clennam's lips , but he forbore to interrupt his good humoured friend . 
'And now , added Mr Meagles , 'you can begin to look into matters as soon as you think proper . 
I have undertaken to explain where you may want explanation , but to be strictly impartial , and to do nothing more . 
They began their perquisitions in Bleeding Heart Yard that same forenoon . 
Nothing had been done for the purposes of the pending investigation everything was in its genuine working dress , and in a certain honest rugged order . 
Three or four days of steady application tendered him master of all the facts it was essential to become acquainted with . 
Mr Meagles was at hand the whole time , always ready to illuminate any dim place with the bright little safety lamp belonging to the scales and scoop . 
Thus , when Daniel came back , he found the affair as good as concluded . 
'I say the same , said Clennam . 
'And I say of both of you , added Mr Meagles , 'that you are well matched . 
'You may call it so , if you like and each of you will be a right hand to the other . 
Here's my own right hand upon it , as a practical man , to both of you . 
The purchase was completed within a month . 
It left Arthur in possession of private personal means not exceeding a few hundred pounds but it opened to him an active and promising career . 
The three friends dined together on the auspicious occasion the factory and the factory wives and children made holiday and dined too even Bleeding Heart Yard dined and was full of meat . 
The noises were sufficiently removed and shut out from the counting house to blend into a busy hum , interspersed with periodical clinks and thumps . 
The patient figures at work were swarthy with the filings of iron and steel that danced on every bench and bubbled up through every chink in the planking . 
The workshop was arrived at by a step ladder from the outer yard below , where it served as a shelter for the large grindstone where tools were sharpened . 
Raising his eyes thus one day , he was surprised to see a bonnet labouring up the step ladder . 
The unusual apparition was followed by another bonnet . 
Meanwhile , Mr F. 's Aunt rubbed her esteemed insteps with her umbrella , and vindictively glared . 
As Flora dropped into hers , she bestowed the old look upon him . 
Flora put her hand tenderly on his , and gave him another of the youthful glances . 
'Oh not that disagreeable name , say Flora ! 'Flora , is it worth troubling yourself afresh to enter into explanations ? I assure you none are needed . 
I am satisfied I am perfectly satisfied . 
He could not but look at her with disconcertment , as she sat breathing bitterness and scorn , and staring leagues away . 
Flora , however , received the remark as if it had been of a most apposite and agreeable nature approvingly observing aloud that Mr F. 's Aunt had a great deal of spirit . 
, indicated that Clennam was the unfortunate person at whom the challenge was hurled . 
'Pray say nothing in the way of apology , Arthur entreated . 
Even Flora's commas seemed to have fled on this occasion she was so much more disjointed and voluble than in the preceding interview . 
'My good Flora , we settled that before . 
It was all quite right . 
'No , no , don't say that . 
'What nonsense not to say it Arthur Doyce and Clennam easier and less trying to me than Mr Clennam when I know it and you know it too and can't deny it . 
'But I do deny it , Flora . 
I should soon have made you a friendly visit . 
'Ah ! said Flora , tossing her head . 
'I dare say ! and she gave him another of the old looks . 
but I am sure it wasn't me , at least I hope not but you really must excuse my confessing more on that point . 
'That's all ? said Arthur , a little disappointed . 
'It was very kind of you , Flora , to think of this . 
Poor Flora rejoined with a plain sincerity which became her better than her youngest glances , that she was glad he thought so . 
'I think , Flora , he said , 'that the employment you can give Little Dorrit , and the kindness you can show her 'Yes and I will , said Flora , quickly . 
'I am sure of it will be a great assistance and support to her . 
I do not feel that I have the right to tell you what I know of her , for I acquired the knowledge confidentially , and under circumstances that bind me to silence . 
But I have an interest in the little creature , and a respect for her that I cannot express to you . 
Her life has been one of such trial and devotion , and such quiet goodness , as you can scarcely imagine . 
I can hardly think of her , far less speak of her , without feeling moved . 
Let that feeling represent what I could tell you , and commit her to your friendliness with my thanks . 
As much to her own enjoyment as to his dismay , she covered it with a corner of her shawl as she took it . 
The Patriarch , meanwhile , came inanely beaming towards the counting house in the wake of Pancks . 
Pancks opened the door for him , towed him in , and retired to his own moorings in a corner . 
'I heard from Flora , said the Patriarch with his benevolent smile , 'that she was coming to call , coming to call . 
And being out , I thought I'd come also , thought I'd come also . 
, by means of his blue eyes , his shining head , and his long white hair , was most impressive . 
It seemed worth putting down among the noblest sentiments enunciated by the best of men . 
For which I have been thanking her . 
The Patriarch turning his head in a lumbering way towards Pancks , that assistant put up the note book in which he had been absorbed , and took him in tow . 
'You didn't recommend her , you know , said Pancks 'how could you ? You knew nothing about her , you didn't . 
The name was mentioned to you , and you passed it on . 
'As she justifies any recommendation , it is much the same thing . 
'You are glad she turns out well , said Pancks , 'but it wouldn't have been your fault if she had turned out ill . 
The credit's not yours as it is , and the blame wouldn't have been yours as it might have been . 
You knew nothing about her . 
'You are not acquainted , then , said Arthur , hazarding a random question , 'with any of her family ? 'Acquainted with any of her family ? returned Pancks . 
'How should you be acquainted with any of her family ? You never heard of 'em . 
'As to being a reference , said Pancks , 'you know , in a general way , what being a reference means . 
It's all your eye , that is ! Look at your tenants down the Yard here . 
They'd all be references for one another , if you'd let 'em . 
What would be the good of letting 'em ? It's no satisfaction to be done by two men instead of one . 
A person who can't pay , gets another person who can't pay , to guarantee that he can pay . 
Like a person with two wooden legs getting another person with two wooden legs , to guarantee that he has got two natural legs . 
It don't make either of them able to do a walking match . 
And four wooden legs are more troublesome to you than two , when you don't want any . 
Mr Pancks concluded by blowing off that steam of his . 
A momentary silence that ensued was broken by Mr F. 's Aunt , who had been sitting upright in a cataleptic state since her last public remark . 
You couldn't do it when your Uncle George was living much less when he's dead . 
Mr Pancks was not slow to reply , with his usual calmness , 'Indeed , ma'am ! Bless my soul ! I'm surprised to hear it . 
Favour me with your arm , ma'am we'll have a little walk together , you and me , if you'll honour me with your company . 
And so escorted Mr F. 's Aunt down the private staircase of the counting house with great gallantry and success . 
, that they had drained the cup of life to the dregs and further to hint mysteriously that the late Mr F. was at the bottom of it . 
Alone again , Clennam became a prey to his old doubts in reference to his mother and Little Dorrit , and revolved the old thoughts and suspicions . 
They were all in his mind , blending themselves with the duties he was mechanically discharging , when a shadow on his papers caused him to look up for the cause . 
The cause was Mr Pancks . 
Mr Pancks asked , with a little inquiring twist of his head , if he might come in again ? Clennam replied with a nod of his head in the affirmative . 
Mr Pancks worked his way in , came alongside the desk , made himself fast by leaning his arms upon it , and started conversation with a puff and a snort . 
'Mr F. 's Aunt is appeased , I hope ? said Clennam . 
'All right , sir , said Pancks . 
'I am so unfortunate as to have awakened a strong animosity in the breast of that lady , said Clennam . 
'Do you know why ? 'Does SHE know why ? said Pancks . 
I suppose not , said Pancks . 
'Mr Clennam , he then began , 'I am in want of information , sir . 
'Connected with this firm ? asked Clennam . 
'With what then , Mr Pancks ? That is to say , assuming that you want it of me . 
'Yes , sir yes , I want it of you , said Pancks , 'if I can persuade you to furnish it . 
A , B , C , D. DA , DE , DI , DO . 
That's the name , sir ? Mr Pancks blew off his peculiar noise again , and fell to at his right hand nails . 
Arthur looked searchingly at him he returned the look . 
'I don't understand you , Mr Pancks . 
'That's the name that I want to know about . 
'And what do you want to know ? 'Whatever you can and will tell me . 
This comprehensive summary of his desires was not discharged without some heavy labouring on the part of Mr Pancks's machinery . 
'This is a singular visit , Mr Pancks . 
It strikes me as rather extraordinary that you should come , with such an object , to me . 
'It may be all extraordinary together , returned Pancks . 
'It may be out of the ordinary course , and yet be business . 
In short , it is business . 
I am a man of business . 
What business have I in this present world , except to stick to business ? No business . 
With his former doubt whether this dry hard personage were quite in earnest , Clennam again turned his eyes attentively upon his face . 
'Now , said Pancks , 'to put this business on its own footing , it's not my proprietor's . 
'Do you refer to Mr Casby as your proprietor ? Pancks nodded . 
Say , at my proprietor's I hear name name of young person Mr Clennam wants to serve . 
Say , name first mentioned to my proprietor by Plornish in the Yard . 
Say , I go to Plornish . 
Say , I ask Plornish as a matter of business for information . 
Say , Plornish , though six weeks in arrear to my proprietor , declines . 
Say , Mrs Plornish declines . 
Say , both refer to Mr Clennam . 
'Well ? 'Well , sir , returned Pancks , 'say , I come to him . 
Say , here I am . 
'Mr Pancks , not to trespass on your grounds of mystery , I will be as plain with you as I can . 
Let me ask two questions . 
First 'All right ! said Pancks , holding up his dirty forefinger with his broken nail . 
'I see ! What's your motive ? 'Exactly . 
'Motive , said Pancks , 'good . 
Nothing to do with my proprietor not stateable at present , ridiculous to state at present but good . 
Desiring to serve young person , name of Dorrit , said Pancks , with his forefinger still up as a caution . 
'Better admit motive to be good . 
'In conclusion , Mr Pancks , said Arthur , 'I have but to say this . 
, 'and for knowing as much as I can . 
So devoted a man of business as you are eh ? For Mr Pancks had suddenly made that blowing effort with unusual force . 
'It's nothing , said Pancks . 
'So devoted a man of business as yourself has a perfect understanding of a fair bargain . 
I wish to make a fair bargain with you , that you shall enlighten me concerning the Dorrit family when you have it in your power , as I have enlightened you . 
I have seen so much business done on sharp principles that , to tell you the truth , Mr Pancks , I am tired of them . 
'It's a bargain , sir , said he . 
'You shall find me stick to it . 
'It's all right , he said at last , 'and now I'll wish you good day , as it's collecting day in the Yard . 
By the bye , though . 
A lame foreigner with a stick . 
You do take a reference sometimes , I see ? said Clennam . 
'When he can pay , sir , replied Pancks . 
'Take all you can get , and keep back all you can't be forced to give up . 
The lame foreigner with the stick wants a top room down the Yard . 
Is he good for it ? 'I am , said Clennam , 'and I will answer for him . 
What I must have of Bleeding Heart Yard , said Pancks , making a note of the case in his book , 'is my bond . 
I want my bond , you see . 
Pay up , or produce your property ! That's the watchword down the Yard . 
that the Great Mogul sent him . 
He has been in the hospital , I believe ? 'Yes . 
Through having met with an accident . 
He is only just now discharged . 
'It's pauperising a man , sir , I have been shown , to let him into a hospital ? said Pancks . 
And again blew off that remarkable sound . 
'I have been shown so too , said Clennam , coldly . 
Throughout the remainder of the day , Mr Pancks's What were they up to ? and What did they mean by it ? sounded all over the Yard . 
Mr Pancks wouldn't hear of excuses , wouldn't hear of complaints , wouldn't hear of repairs , wouldn't hear of anything but unconditional money down . 
Perspiring and puffing and darting about in eccentric directions , and becoming hotter and dingier every moment , he lashed the tide of the yard into a most agitated and turbid state . 
It had not settled down into calm water again full two hours after he had been seen fuming away on the horizon at the top of the steps . 
'There's been a lady at our place to day , Miss Dorrit , Plornish growled , 'and another one along with her as is a old wixen if ever I met with such . 
The way she snapped a person's head off , dear me ! The mild Plornish was at first quite unable to get his mind away from Mr F. 's Aunt . 
'For , said he , to excuse himself , 'she is , I do assure you , the winegariest party . 
At length , by a great effort , he detached himself from the subject sufficiently to observe 'But she's neither here nor there just at present . 
The other lady , she's Mr Casby's daughter and if Mr Casby an't well off , none better , it an't through any fault of Pancks . 
For , as to Pancks , he does , he really does , he does indeed ! Mr Plornish , after his usual manner , was a little obscure , but conscientiously emphatic . 
She was a old and a dear friend , she said particular , of Mr Clennam , and hoped for to prove herself a useful friend to his friend . 
'I can go to morrow , thank you , said Little Dorrit . 
'This is very kind of you , but you are always kind . 
In his affable unconsciousness , however , he took no heed . 
Early in the morning , Little Dorrit , leaving Maggy in high domestic trust , set off for the Patriarchal tent . 
She went by the Iron Bridge , though it cost her a penny , and walked more slowly in that part of her journey than in any other . 
At five minutes before eight her hand was on the Patriarchal knocker , which was quite as high as she could reach . 
It was the word and the action of a moment . 
Little Dorrit had hardly time to think how kind it was , when Flora dashed at the breakfast table full of business , and plunged over head and ears into loquacity . 
I thank you again and again , but I am quite well . 
Little Dorrit glanced at the portrait , very imperfectly following the references to that work of art . 
Little Dorrit glanced at the portrait again . 
The artist had given it a head that would have been , in an intellectual point of view , top heavy for Shakespeare . 
She disappeared , leaving Little Dorrit to ponder over the meaning of her scattered words . 
She soon came back again and at last began to take her own breakfast , talking all the while . 
'Mrs Clennam has been kind to me , said Little Dorrit . 
Little Dorrit , her face very pale , sat down again to listen . 
'Hadn't I better work the while ? she asked . 
'I can work and attend too . 
I would rather , if I may . 
Her earnestness was so expressive of her being uneasy without her work , that Flora answered , 'Well my dear whatever you like best , and produced a basket of white handkerchiefs . 
Little Dorrit gladly put it by her side , took out her little pocket housewife , threaded the needle , and began to hem . 
The statue bride , hardly pausing for breath , went on , with the greatest complacency , in a rambling manner sometimes incidental to flesh and blood . 
His relict , with a glance at his portrait , shook her head and wiped her eyes . 
They worked on without pause , and the busy head bent over them watching the stitches . 
There is not much doubt that when she worked herself into full mermaid condition , she did actually believe whatever she said in it . 
The nimble fingers laid aside the work , and the little figure rose and kissed her hand . 
'You are very cold , said Flora , changing to her own natural kind hearted manner , and gaining greatly by the change . 
I am sure you are not well I am sure you are not strong . 
'It is only that I feel a little overcome by your kindness , and by Mr Clennam's kindness in confiding me to one he has known and loved so long . 
'You have overpowered me with gratitude , that's all . 
If I keep near the window for a moment I shall be quite myself . 
Flora opened a window , sat her in a chair by it , and considerately retired to her former place . 
It was a windy day , and the air stirring on Little Dorrit's face soon brightened it . 
In a very few minutes she returned to her basket of work , and her nimble fingers were as nimble as ever . 
Regarded from this point of view Mr Pancks's puffings expressed injury and impatience , and each of his louder snorts became a demand for payment . 
But here again she was undeceived by anomalous and incongruous conduct on the part of Mr Pancks himself . 
She had left the table half an hour , and was at work alone . 
Flora had 'gone to lie down' in the next room , concurrently with which retirement a smell of something to drink had broken out in the house . 
The Patriarch was fast asleep , with his philanthropic mouth open under a yellow pocket handkerchief in the dining room . 
At this quiet time , Mr Pancks softly appeared before her , urbanely nodding . 
'Find it a little dull , Miss Dorrit ? inquired Pancks in a low voice . 
'No , thank you , sir , said Little Dorrit . 
'Busy , I see , observed Mr Pancks , stealing into the room by inches . 
'What are those now , Miss Dorrit ? 'Handkerchiefs . 
'Are they , though ! said Pancks . 
'I shouldn't have thought it . 
Not in the least looking at them , but looking at Little Dorrit . 
'Perhaps you wonder who I am . 
Shall I tell you ? I am a fortune teller . 
Little Dorrit now began to think he was mad . 
'I belong body and soul to my proprietor , said Pancks 'you saw my proprietor having his dinner below . 
But I do a little in the other way , sometimes privately , very privately , Miss Dorrit . 
Little Dorrit looked at him doubtfully , and not without alarm . 
'I wish you'd show me the palm of your hand , said Pancks . 
'I should like to have a look at it . 
Don't let me be troublesome . 
'Years of toil , eh ? said Pancks , softly , touching it with his blunt forefinger . 
'But what else are we made for ? Nothing . 
Hallo ! looking into the lines . 
His eyes were on her hand again directly , and her opportunity of confirming or correcting the impression was gone . 
'Is it any harm ? asked Little Dorrit , smiling . 
'Deuce a bit ! said Pancks . 
'What do you think it's worth ? 'I ought to ask you that . 
I am not the fortune teller . 
'What's it worth ? You shall live to see , Miss Dorrit . 
You shall live to see . 
She could not help showing that she was much surprised , if it were only by his knowing so much about her . 
'Ah ! That's it ! said Pancks , pointing at her . 
'Miss Dorrit , not that , ever ! More surprised than before , and a little more frightened , she looked to him for an explanation of his last words . 
'Not that , said Pancks , making , with great seriousness , an imitation of a surprised look and manner that appeared to be unintentionally grotesque . 
Never on seeing me , no matter when , no matter where . 
Don't take on to mind me . 
Will you agree , Miss Dorrit ? 'I hardly know what to say , returned Little Dorrit , quite astounded . 
'Why ? 'Because I am a fortune teller . 
I haven't told you so much of your fortune yet , Miss Dorrit , as to tell you what's behind me on that little hand . 
I have told you you shall live to see . 
Is it agreed , Miss Dorrit ? 'Agreed that I am to 'To take no notice of me away from here , unless I take on first . 
Not to mind me when I come and go . 
I am no loss , I am not handsome , I am not good company , I am only my proprietors grubber . 
You need do no more than think , Ah ! Pancks the gipsy at his fortune telling he'll tell the rest of my fortune one day I shall live to know it . 
Is it agreed , Miss Dorrit ? 'Ye es , faltered Little Dorrit , whom he greatly confused , 'I suppose so , while you do no harm . 
'Good ! Mr Pancks glanced at the wall of the adjoining room , and stooped forward . 
'Honest creature , woman of capital points , but heedless and a loose talker , Miss Dorrit . 
With that he rubbed his hands as if the interview had been very satisfactory to him , panted away to the door , and urbanely nodded himself out again . 
She saw him in the street , constantly . 
When she went to Mr Casby's , he was always there . 
When she went to Mrs Clennam's , he came there on any pretence , as if to keep her in his sight . 
They seemed to gag and bind him . 
Mr Pancks crowned his mysteries by making himself acquainted with Tip in some unknown manner , and taking a Sunday saunter into the College on that gentleman's arm . 
A change had stolen , and was stealing yet , over the patient heart . 
Every day found her something more retiring than the day before . 
To pass in and out of the prison unnoticed , and elsewhere to be overlooked and forgotten , were , for herself , her chief desires . 
To her own room too , strangely assorted room for her delicate youth and character , she was glad to retreat as often as she could without desertion of any duty . 
There were afternoon times when she was unemployed , when visitors dropped in to play a hand at cards with her father , when she could be spared and was better away . 
Then she would flit along the yard , climb the scores of stairs that led to her room , and take her seat at the window . 
A garret , and a Marshalsea garret without compromise , was Little Dorrit's room . 
Howbeit , for this poor place she showed an increasing love and to sit in it alone became her favourite rest . 
As Maggy's step came higher up and nearer , she trembled and faltered and it was as much as she could do to speak , when Maggy at length appeared . 
'Please , Little Mother , said Maggy , panting for breath , 'you must come down and see him . 
'Who , Maggy ? 'Who , o' course Mr Clennam . 
He's in your father's room , and he says to me , Maggy , will you be so kind and go and say it's only me . 
'I am not very well , Maggy . 
I had better not go . 
I am going to lie down . 
See ! I lie down now , to ease my head . 
Say , with my grateful regard , that you left me so , or I would have come . 
'Putting both your hands afore your face too ! she went on . 
'Well , and if you cry to ease your head , Little Mother , let me cry too . 
Don't go and have all the crying to yourself , expostulated Maggy , 'that an't not being greedy . 
And immediately began to blubber . 
So away she went , muttering her message all the way to keep it in her mind , and , at the appointed time , came back . 
'He was very sorry , I can tell you , she announced , 'and wanted to send a doctor . 
And he's coming again to morrow he is and I don't think he'll have a good sleep to night along o' hearing about your head , Little Mother . 
Oh my ! Ain't you been a crying ! 'I think I have , a little , Maggy . 
'A little ! Oh ! 'But it's all over now all over for good , Maggy . 
And my head is much better and cooler , and I am quite comfortable . 
I am very glad I did not go down . 
, hugged her again , exulted in her brighter looks , and stationed her in her chair by the window . 
He had gold and silver , diamonds and rubies , riches of every kind . 
He had palaces , and he had 'Hospitals , interposed Maggy , still nursing her knees . 
'Let him have hospitals , because they're so comfortable . 
Hospitals with lots of Chicking . 
'Yes , he had plenty of them , and he had plenty of everything . 
'Plenty of baked potatoes , for instance ? said Maggy . 
'Lor ! chuckled Maggy , giving her knees a hug . 
'Wasn't it prime ! 'This King had a daughter , who was the wisest and most beautiful Princess that ever was seen . 
When she was a child she understood all her lessons before her masters taught them to her and when she was grown up , she was the wonder of the world . 
Now , near the Palace where this Princess lived , there was a cottage in which there was a poor little tiny woman , who lived all alone by herself . 
'An old woman , said Maggy , with an unctuous smack of her lips . 
'No , not an old woman . 
'I wonder she warn't afraid , said Maggy . 
'Like trying to stare one another out , said Maggy . 
'Please go on , Little Mother . 
So the Princess said , I never will betray you . 
'It was the shadow of Some one who had gone by long before of Some one who had gone on far away quite out of reach , never , never to come back . 
It was bright to look at and when the tiny woman showed it to the Princess , she was proud of it with all her heart , as a great , great treasure . 
Then the Princess said , Remind me why . 
To which the other replied , that no one so good and kind had ever passed that way , and that was why in the beginning . 
Little Dorrit timidly said Yes , she believed so and resumed Had gone on to those who were expecting him , and that this remembrance was stolen or kept back from nobody . 
The Princess made answer , Ah ! But when the cottager died it would be discovered there . 
The tiny woman told her No when that time came , it would sink quietly into her own grave , and would never be found . 
'Well , to be sure ! said Maggy . 
'The Princess was very much astonished to hear this , as you may suppose , Maggy . 
'So she resolved to watch the tiny woman , and see what came of it . 
At last one day the wheel was still , and the tiny woman was not to be seen . 
There was nobody to look at her now , and nobody for her to look at , so she went in at once to search for the treasured shadow . 
The sunset flush was so bright on Little Dorrit's face when she came thus to the end of her story , that she interposed her hand to shade it . 
'Had she got to be old ? Maggy asked . 
'The tiny woman ? 'Ah ! 'I don't know , said Little Dorrit . 
'But it would have been just the same if she had been ever so old . 
'Would it raly ! said Maggy . 
'Well , I suppose it would though . 
And sat staring and ruminating . 
She sat so long with her eyes wide open , that at length Little Dorrit , to entice her from her box , rose and looked out of window . 
As she glanced down into the yard , she saw Pancks come in and leer up with the corner of his eye as he went by . 
'Who's he , Little Mother ? said Maggy . 
She had joined her at the window and was leaning on her shoulder . 
'I see him come in and out often . 
'I have heard him called a fortune teller , said Little Dorrit . 
'But I doubt if he could tell many people even their past or present fortunes . 
'Couldn't have told the Princess hers ? said Maggy . 
Little Dorrit , looking musingly down into the dark valley of the prison , shook her head . 
'Nor the tiny woman hers ? said Maggy . 
'No , said Little Dorrit , with the sunset very bright upon her . 
'But let us come away from the window . 
But Miss Rugg , environed by the majesty of the law , and having her damages invested in the public securities , was regarded with consideration . 
Fortified within this double armour , Mr Pancks snorted at Miss Rugg on easy terms . 
When he cast off the Patriarch at night , it was only to take an anonymous craft in tow , and labour away afresh in other waters . 
It has been already remarked that he was a man of few words and it may be here observed that he had imbibed a professional habit of locking everything up . 
He locked himself up as carefully as he locked up the Marshalsea debtors . 
He never opened it without occasion . 
When it was necessary to let anything out , he opened it a little way , held it open just as long as sufficed for the purpose , and locked it again . 
That Mr Pancks should be moved to invite any one to dinner at Pentonville , was an unprecedented fact in his calendar . 
But he invited Young John to dinner , and even brought him within range of the dangerous fascinations of Miss Rugg . 
Provision of oranges , apples , and nuts was also made . 
And rum was brought home by Mr Pancks on Saturday night , to gladden the visitor's heart . 
The store of creature comforts was not the chief part of the visitor's reception . 
Its special feature was a foregone family confidence and sympathy . 
'I am glad , said Mr Rugg , challenging him specially in that character , 'to have the distinguished gratification of making your acquaintance , sir . 
Your feelings do you honour . 
Miss Rugg heaved a sigh . 
'My daughter , sir , said Mr Rugg . 
'Anastatia , you are no stranger to the state of this young man's affections . 
My daughter has had her trials , sir' Mr Rugg might have used the word more pointedly in the singular number 'and she can feel for you . 
Young John , almost overwhelmed by the touching nature of this greeting , professed himself to that effect . 
I belong to a profession in which that luxury is sometimes denied us . 
Young John replied , with acknowledgments , that he only hoped he did what was right , and what showed how entirely he was devoted to Miss Dorrit . 
He wished to be unselfish and he hoped he was . 
He wished to do anything as laid in his power to serve Miss Dorrit , altogether putting himself out of sight and he hoped he did . 
It was but little that he could do , but he hoped he did it . 
'Sir , said Mr Rugg , taking him by the hand , 'you are a young man that it does one good to come across . 
You are a young man that I should like to put in the witness box , to humanise the minds of the legal profession . 
Mr Rugg drew him a little apart . 
'My daughter's case , sir , said he , 'at the time when , in vindication of her outraged feelings and her sex , she became the plaintiff in Rugg and Bawkins . 
'I think I go a little beyond that , sir , returned the other , hesitating , as if he confessed it with some shame . 
'But in your case there's no fiend in human form , said Mr Rugg , with argumentative smile and action of hand . 
'Observe , Mr Chivery ! No fiend in human form ! 'No , sir , certainly , Young John added with simplicity , 'I should be very sorry if there was . 
'The sentiment , said Mr Rugg , 'is what I should have expected from your known principles . 
It would affect my daughter greatly , sir , if she heard it . 
As I perceive the mutton , I am glad she didn't hear it . 
Mr Pancks , on this occasion , pray face me . 
My dear , face Mr Chivery . 
Pancks recognised the sally in his usual way , and took in his provender in his usual way . 
Miss Rugg , perhaps making up some of her arrears , likewise took very kindly to the mutton , and it rapidly diminished to the bone . 
A bread and butter pudding entirely disappeared , and a considerable amount of cheese and radishes vanished by the same means . 
Then also , and before the broaching of the rum and water , came Mr Pancks's note book . 
The ensuing business proceedings were brief but curious , and rather in the nature of a conspiracy . 
'Now , there's a churchyard in Bedfordshire , said Pancks . 
'Who takes it ? 'I'll take it , sir , returned Mr Rugg , 'if no one bids . 
Mr Pancks dealt him his card , and looked at his hand again . 
'Now , there's an Enquiry in York , said Pancks . 
'Who takes it ? 'I'm not good for York , said Mr Rugg . 
'Then perhaps , pursued Pancks , 'you'll be so obliging , John Chivery ? Young John assenting , Pancks dealt him his card , and consulted his hand again . 
'There's a Church in London I may as well take that . 
And a Family Bible I may as well take that , too . 
Two to me , repeated Pancks , breathing hard over his cards . 
'Here's a Clerk at Durham for you , John , and an old seafaring gentleman at Dunstable for you , Mr Rugg . 
Two to me , was it ? Yes , two to me . 
Here's a Stone three to me . 
And a Still born Baby four to me . 
And all , for the present , told . 
'Cash goes out fast , he said anxiously , as he pushed a portion to each of his male companions , 'very fast . 
Meanwhile Mr Pancks , looking , not without some pity , at Young John , slowly and thoughtfully twisted up his canvas bag as if he were wringing its neck . 
The lady , returning as he restored it to his pocket , mixed rum and water for the party , not forgetting her fair self , and handed to every one his glass . 
Such was the dinner without precedent , given by Pancks at Pentonville and such was the busy and strange life Pancks led . 
It was uphill work for a foreigner , lame or sound , to make his way with the Bleeding Hearts . 
This , therefore , might be called a political position of the Bleeding Hearts but they entertained other objections to having foreigners in the Yard . 
They believed that foreigners were always badly off and though they were as ill off themselves as they could desire to be , that did not diminish the force of the objection . 
Not to be tedious , they had many other beliefs of a similar kind . 
, but still at heavy odds . 
They spoke to him in very loud voices as if he were stone deaf . 
They constructed sentences , by way of teaching him the language in its purity , such as were addressed by the savages to Captain Cook , or by Friday to Robinson Crusoe . 
Even Mrs Plornish herself began to think that she had a natural call towards that language . 
It was in this stage of his progress , and in about the third week of his occupation , that Mr Pancks's fancy became attracted by the little man . 
'Oh ! said Mr Pancks , watching him , wonderingly . 
'That's it , is it ? You're a quick customer . 
I didn't expect to receive it , though . 
Mrs Plornish here interposed with great condescension , and explained to Mr Baptist . 
The little man smiled and nodded . 
His bright face seemed uncommonly attractive to Mr Pancks . 
'How's he getting on in his limb ? he asked Mrs Plornish . 
'Oh , he's a deal better , sir , said Mrs Plornish . 
'We expect next week he'll be able to leave off his stick entirely . 
'He's a merry fellow , too , said Mr Pancks , admiring him as if he were a mechanical toy . 
'How does he live ? 'Why , sir , rejoined Mrs Plornish , 'he turns out to have quite a power of carving them flowers that you see him at now . 
'Can he live by that ? asked Mr Pancks . 
'He can live on very little , sir , and it is expected as he will be able , in time , to make a very good living . 
'And what does he do with himself , now , when he ain't hard at it ? said Mr Pancks . 
'He looks to me as if every tooth in his head was always laughing . 
Mr Baptist seemed to have a general understanding of what she said or perhaps his quickness caught and applied her slight action of peeping . 
Altro ! 'What's Altro ? said Pancks . 
'Hem ! It's a sort of a general kind of expression , sir , said Mrs Plornish . 
'Is it ? said Pancks . 
'Why , then Altro to you , old chap . 
Altro ! Mr Baptist in his vivacious way repeating the word several times , Mr Pancks in his duller way gave it him back once . 
Mr Doyce had been to Twickenham to pass the day . 
Mr Doyce was just come home . 
He put in his head at the door of Clennam's sitting room to say Good night . 
'Come in , come in ! said Clennam . 
'I saw you were reading , returned Doyce , as he entered , 'and thought you might not care to be disturbed . 
He shut it up , rather quickly . 
'Are they well ? he asked . 
'Yes , said Doyce 'they are well . 
Daniel had an old workmanlike habit of carrying his pocket handkerchief in his hat . 
He took it out and wiped his forehead with it , slowly repeating , 'They are all well . 
Miss Minnie looking particularly well , I thought . 
'Any company at the cottage ? 'No , no company . 
'And how did you get on , you four ? asked Clennam gaily . 
'There were five of us , returned his partner . 
'There was What's his name . 
'Who is he ? said Clennam . 
'Ah , to be sure ! cried Clennam with unusual vivacity , 'Yes ! I forgot him . 
'As I mentioned , you may remember , said Daniel Doyce , 'he is always there on Sunday . 
'Yes , yes , returned Clennam 'I remember now . 
Daniel Doyce , still wiping his forehead , ploddingly repeated . 
He was there , he was there . 
Oh yes , he was there . 
'Miss Meagles is quite attached to the dog , observed Clennam . 
'Quite so , assented his partner . 
'More attached to the dog than I am to the man . 
'You mean Mr ? 'I mean Mr Gowan , most decidedly , said Daniel Doyce . 
There was a gap in the conversation , which Clennam devoted to winding up his watch . 
'Perhaps you are a little hasty in your judgment , he said . 
'Our judgments I am supposing a general case 'Of course , said Doyce . 
'Are so liable to be influenced by many considerations , which , almost without our knowing it , are unfair , that it is necessary to keep a guard upon them . 
For instance , Mr 'Gowan , quietly said Doyce , upon whom the utterance of the name almost always devolved . 
'Is young and handsome , easy and quick , has talent , and has seen a good deal of various kinds of life . 
It might be difficult to give an unselfish reason for being prepossessed against him . 
'Not difficult for me , I think , Clennam , returned his partner . 
'I see him bringing present anxiety , and , I fear , future sorrow , into my old friend's house . 
I see him wearing deeper lines into my old friend's face , the nearer he draws to , and the oftener he looks at , the face of his daughter . 
In short , I see him with a net about the pretty and affectionate creature whom he will never make happy . 
'We don't know , said Clennam , almost in the tone of a man in pain , 'that he will not make her happy . 
'We don't know , returned his partner , 'that the earth will last another hundred years , but we think it highly probable . 
'Maybe , my friend , said Doyce . 
'Maybe also , that she is too young and petted , too confiding and inexperienced , to discriminate well . 
'That , said Clennam , 'would be far beyond our power of correction . 
Daniel Doyce shook his head gravely , and rejoined , 'I fear so . 
'Therefore , in a word , said Clennam , 'we should make up our minds that it is not worthy of us to say any ill of Mr Gowan . 
It would be a poor thing to gratify a prejudice against him . 
And I resolve , for my part , not to depreciate him . 
'I am not quite so sure of myself , and therefore I reserve my privilege of objecting to him , returned the other . 
Good night , MY friend and partner ! He shook his hand in saying this , as if there had been something serious at the bottom of their conversation and they separated . 
If Clennam had ever admitted the forbidden passion into his breast , this period might have been a period of real trial under the actual circumstances , doubtless it was nothing nothing . 
Equally , if his heart had given entertainment to that prohibited guest , his silent fighting of his way through the mental condition of this period might have been a little meritorious . 
In the modest truthfulness of always keeping in view the greater equality of Mr Gowan's years and the greater attractions of his person and manner , there might have been a little merit . 
was very sharp , there might have been some quiet strength of character . 
But , after the resolution he had made , of course he could have no such merits as these and such a state of mind was nobody's nobody's . 
Mr Gowan made it no concern of his whether it was nobody's or somebody's . 
He preserved his perfect serenity of manner on all occasions , as if the possibility of Clennam's presuming to have debated the great question were too distant and ridiculous to be imagined . 
have been a very uncomfortable element in his state of mind . 
'I quite regret you were not with us yesterday , said Mr Henry Gowan , calling on Clennam the next morning . 
'We had an agreeable day up the river there . 
So he had heard , Arthur said . 
'From your partner ? returned Henry Gowan . 
'What a dear old fellow he is ! 'I have a great regard for him . 
'By Jove , he is the finest creature ! said Gowan . 
'So fresh , so green , trusts in such wonderful things ! Here was one of the many little rough points that had a tendency to grate on Clennam's hearing . 
He put it aside by merely repeating that he had a high regard for Mr Doyce . 
'He is charming ! To see him mooning along to that time of life , laying down nothing by the way and picking up nothing by the way , is delightful . 
So unspoilt , so simple , such a good soul ! Upon my life Mr Clennam , one feels desperately worldly and wicked in comparison with such an innocent creature . 
I speak for myself , let me add , without including you . 
'Thank you for the compliment , said Clennam , ill at ease 'you are too , I hope ? 'So so , rejoined the other . 
'To be candid with you , tolerably . 
I am not a great impostor . 
Buy one of my pictures , and I assure you , in confidence , it will not be worth the money . 
Buy one of another man's any great professor who beats me hollow and the chances are that the more you give him , the more he'll impose upon you . 
'All painters ? 'Painters , writers , patriots , all the rest who have stands in the market . 
Give almost any man I know ten pounds , and he will impose upon you to a corresponding extent a thousand pounds to a corresponding extent ten thousand pounds to a corresponding extent . 
So great the success , so great the imposition . 
But what a capital world it is ! cried Gowan with warm enthusiasm . 
'By the political gentlemen who condescend to keep the Circumlocution Office . 
Very much , said Clennam , drily . 
'It's a very dangerous , unsatisfactory , and expensive school to the people who pay to keep the pupils there , I am afraid , said Clennam , shaking his head . 
'Ah ! You are a terrible fellow , returned Gowan , airily . 
nearly out of his wits . 
But enough of him , and of all the rest of them . 
I want to present you to my mother , Mr Clennam . 
Pray do me the favour to give me the opportunity . 
In nobody's state of mind , there was nothing Clennam would have desired less , or would have been more at a loss how to avoid . 
'My mother lives in a most primitive manner down in that dreary red brick dungeon at Hampton Court , said Gowan . 
'If you would make your own appointment , suggest your own day for permitting me to take you there to dinner , you would be bored and she would be charmed . 
Really that's the state of the case . 
Accordingly he said it , and the day was fixed . 
And a dreaded day it was on his part , and a very unwelcome day when it came and they went down to Hampton Court together . 
The venerable inhabitants of that venerable pile seemed , in those times , to be encamped there like a sort of civilised gipsies . 
Mental reservations and artful mysteries grew out of these things . 
There was no end to the small social accommodation bills of this nature which the gipsies of gentility were constantly drawing upon , and accepting for , one another . 
He perfectly knew that the public could never have got him in , but he grimly gratified himself with the idea that the public kept him out . 
, he had grown neglectful of his person and morose in mind and now beholding in Clennam one of the degraded body of his oppressors , received him with ignominy . 
Mrs Gowan , however , received him with condescension . 
, Clennam felt that on the whole they let him off lightly . 
The dignified old gentleman turned out to be Lord Lancaster Stiltstalking , who had been maintained by the Circumlocution Office for many years as a representative of the Britannic Majesty abroad . 
was so obliging as to shade the dinner . 
He shaded the dinner , cooled the wines , chilled the gravy , and blighted the vegetables . 
There was only one other person in the room a microscopically small footboy , who waited on the malevolent man who hadn't got into the Post Office . 
It was then that Clennam learned for the first time what little pivots this great world goes round upon . 
wanted preserving , but how it came to want preserving was not so clear . 
Mr Henry Gowan seemed to have a malicious pleasure in playing off the three talkers against each other , and in seeing Clennam startled by what they said . 
Having as supreme a contempt for the class that had thrown him off as for the class that had not taken him on , he had no personal disquiet in anything that passed . 
He finished by freezing a cup of tea for his own drinking , and retiring at his lowest temperature . 
He obeyed , and took the tripod recently vacated by Lord Lancaster Stiltstalking . 
It is the subject in connection with which my son first had , I believe , the pleasure of cultivating your acquaintance . 
Clennam inclined his head , as a generally suitable reply to what he did not yet quite understand . 
There ! If it is a point of honour that I should originate the name Miss Mickles Miggles . 
'Miss Meagles , said Clennam , 'is very beautiful . 
He picked the people up at Rome , I think ? The phrase would have given nobody mortal offence . 
Clennam replied , 'Excuse me , I doubt if I understand your expression . 
'I really cannot say , said Clennam , 'where my friend Mr Meagles first presented Mr Henry Gowan to his daughter . 
'I am pretty sure he picked her up at Rome but never mind where somewhere . 
, is she very plebeian ? 'Really , ma'am , returned Clennam , 'I am so undoubtedly plebeian myself , that I do not feel qualified to judge . 
'Very neat ! said Mrs Gowan , coolly unfurling her screen . 
'Very happy ! From which I infer that you secretly think her manner equal to her looks ? Clennam , after a moment's stiffness , bowed . 
'That's comforting , and I hope you may be right . 
Did Henry tell me you had travelled with them ? 'I travelled with my friend Mr Meagles , and his wife and daughter , during some months . 
'Really comforting , because you must have had a large experience of them . 
You see , Mr Clennam , this thing has been going on for a long time , and I find no improvement in it . 
Therefore to have the opportunity of speaking to one so well informed about it as yourself , is an immense relief to me . 
Quite a blessing , I am sure . 
'Pardon me , returned Clennam , 'but I am not in Mr Henry Gowan's confidence . 
I am far from being so well informed as you suppose me to be . 
Your mistake makes my position a very delicate one . 
No word on this topic has ever passed between Mr Henry Gowan and myself . 
Mrs Gowan glanced at the other end of the room , where her son was playing ecarte on a sofa , with the old lady who was for a charge of cavalry . 
'Not in his confidence ? No , said Mrs Gowan . 
'No word has passed between you ? No. That I can imagine . 
But there are unexpressed confidences , Mr Clennam and as you have been together intimately among these people , I cannot doubt that a confidence of that sort exists in the present case . 
I am infinitely obliged to you for what you have told me . 
As she shrugged her shoulders , Clennam stiffly bowed again . 
A misconception on your part , a very great misconception if I may venture to call it so , seems to require setting right . 
'To secure Mr Henry Gowan ? The lady placidly assented . 
Mrs Gowan shut up her great green fan , tapped him on the arm with it , and tapped her smiling lips . 
'Why , of course , said she . 
Arthur watched her face for some explanation of what she did mean . 
'Are you really serious , Mr Clennam ? Don't you see ? Arthur did not see and said so . 
It ought to have been a very profitable Bank , if he had much to do with its management . 
This is very well done , indeed . 
'I beg and entreat you , ma'am Arthur interposed . 
'Suspicion ? repeated Mrs Gowan . 
'Not suspicion , Mr Clennam , Certainty . 
It is very knowingly done indeed , and seems to have taken YOU in completely . 
She laughed and again sat tapping her lips with her fan , and tossing her head , as if she added , 'Don't tell me . 
I know such people will do anything for the honour of such an alliance . 
Mr Clennam thereupon rose , as he had no choice but to do and Mrs Gowan showed him , to the last , the same look and the same tapped contemptuous lips . 
'You have had a portentously long audience of my mother , said Gowan , as the door closed upon them . 
'I fervently hope she has not bored you ? 'Not at all , said Clennam . 
They had a little open phaeton for the journey , and were soon in it on the road home . 
Gowan , driving , lighted a cigar Clennam declined one . 
In that state of mind which rendered nobody uneasy , his thoughtfulness would have turned principally on the man at his side . 
At those times , the striving within him would have been hardest and looking up and catching Gowan's eyes , he would have started as if he had done him an injury . 
'You are evidently out of spirits , said Gowan 'I am very much afraid my mother must have bored you dreadfully . 
'Believe me , not at all , said Clennam . 
Mr Pancks was not a man to waste his time and trouble in researches prompted by idle curiosity . 
That he had a specific object Clennam could not doubt . 
But , if his apprehensions should prove to be well founded , he was ready at any moment to lay down all he had , and begin the world anew . 
Duty on earth , restitution on earth , action on earth these first , as the first steep steps upward . 
Labouring in this sea , as all barks labour in cross seas , he tossed about and came to no haven . 
The removal of Little Dorrit herself from their customary association , did not mend the matter . 
She was so much out , and so much in her own room , that he began to miss her and to find a blank in her place . 
'What do you mean ? 'Wouldn't count five and twenty , sir couldn't be got to do it stopped at eight , and took herself off . 
'Left your house ? 'Never to come back , said Mr Meagles , shaking his head . 
'You don't know that girl's passionate and proud character . 
A team of horses couldn't draw her back now the bolts and bars of the old Bastille couldn't keep her . 
'How did it happen ? Pray sit down and tell me . 
'As to how it happened , it's not so easy to relate because you must have the unfortunate temperament of the poor impetuous girl herself , before you can fully understand it . 
But it came about in this way . 
Pet and Mother and I have been having a good deal of talk together of late . 
I'll not disguise from you , Clennam , that those conversations have not been of as bright a kind as I could wish they have referred to our going away again . 
In proposing to do which , I have had , in fact , an object . 
'An object , said Mr Meagles , after a moment's pause , 'that I will not disguise from you , either , Clennam . 
There's an inclination on the part of my dear child which I am sorry for . 
Perhaps you guess the person . 
'I was not unprepared to hear it . 
'Well ! said Mr Meagles , with a heavy sigh , 'I wish to God you had never had to hear it . 
However , so it is . 
Mother and I have done all we could to get the better of it , Clennam . 
We have tried tender advice , we have tried time , we have tried absence . 
As yet , of no use . 
Our late conversations have been upon the subject of going away for another year at least , in order that there might be an entire separation and breaking off for that term . 
Upon that question , Pet has been unhappy , and therefore Mother and I have been unhappy . 
Clennam said that he could easily believe it . 
Still , Pet's happiness or unhappiness is quite a life or death question with us and we may be excused , I hope , for making much of it . 
At all events , it might have been borne by Tattycoram . 
Now , don't you think so ? 'I do indeed think so , returned Clennam , in most emphatic recognition of this very moderate expectation . 
'No , sir , said Mr Meagles , shaking his head ruefully . 
But , do what we would , it seems as if it was to be she broke out violently one night . 
, and she had attended Pet up stairs you remember she was her maid . 
'The gentlest mistress in the world . 
'Thank you , Clennam , said Mr Meagles , shaking him by the hand 'you have often seen them together . 
Close after her came Tattycoram in a flaming rage . 
I hate you all three , says she , stamping her foot at us . 
I am bursting with hate of the whole house . 
'Upon which you ? 'I ? said Mr Meagles , with a plain good faith that might have commanded the belief of Mrs Gowan herself . 
'I said , count five and twenty , Tattycoram . 
Mr Meagles again stroked his face and shook his head , with an air of profound regret . 
But she couldn't control herself to go any further . 
There she broke down , poor thing , and gave the other seventeen to the four winds . 
Then it all burst out . 
She detested us , she was miserable with us , she couldn't bear it , she wouldn't bear it , she was determined to go away . 
When we pretended to be so fond of one another , we exulted over her that was what we did we exulted over her and shamed her . 
And all in the house did the same . 
They talked about their fathers and mothers , and brothers and sisters they liked to drag them up before her face . 
by the wretched name we gave her and had laughed at the name . 
Why , who didn't and who were we that we should have a right to name her like a dog or a cat ? But she didn't care . 
She would take no more benefits from us she would fling us her name back again , and she would go . 
She would leave us that minute , nobody should stop her , and we should never hear of her again . 
Mr Meagles had recited all this with such a vivid remembrance of his original , that he was almost as flushed and hot by this time as he described her to have been . 
'Ah , well ! he said , wiping his face . 
But she was gone this morning . 
'And you know no more of her ? 'No more , returned Mr Meagles . 
'I have been hunting about all day . 
She must have gone very early and very silently . 
I have found no trace of her down about us . 
'It would be strange and hard indeed if I did not , said Clennam , 'when you are all so forgiving . 
What I was going to ask you was , have you thought of that Miss Wade ? 'I have . 
Then , of course , I recalled what she said that day at dinner when you were first with US . 
Mr Meagles handed him a slip of paper , on which was written the name of one of the dull by streets in the Grosvenor region , near Park Lane . 
'Here is no number , said Arthur looking over it . 
'No number , my dear Clennam ? returned his friend . 
It was now summer time a grey , hot , dusty evening . 
Here and there a Hatchment , with the whole science of Heraldry in it , loomed down upon the street , like an Archbishop discoursing on Vanity . 
The shops , few in number , made no show for popular opinion was as nothing to them . 
A few oranges formed the greengrocer's whole concession to the vulgar mind . 
A single basket made of moss , once containing plovers' eggs , held all that the poulterer had to say to the rabble . 
to be gone out to dinner , and nobody seemed to be giving the dinners they had gone to . 
Here and there was a retiring public house which did not require to be supported on the shoulders of the people , and where gentlemen out of livery were not much wanted . 
This last discovery was made by the two friends in pursuing their inquiries . 
Nothing was there , or anywhere , known of such a person as Miss Wade , in connection with the street they sought . 
It was one of the parasite streets long , regular , narrow , dull and gloomy like a brick and mortar funeral . 
They inquired at several little area gates , where a dejected youth stood spiking his chin on the summit of a precipitous little shoot of wooden steps , but could gain no information . 
At length they stood at the corner from which they had begun , and it had fallen quite dark , and they were no wiser . 
It happened that in the street they had several times passed a dingy house , apparently empty , with bills in the windows , announcing that it was to let . 
The bills , as a variety in the funeral procession , almost amounted to a decoration . 
Mr Meagles agreed , and back they went . 
They knocked once , and they rang once , without any response . 
'Empty , said Mr Meagles , listening . 
'Once more , said Clennam , and knocked again . 
After that knock they heard a movement below , and somebody shuffling up towards the door . 
The confined entrance was so dark that it was impossible to make out distinctly what kind of person opened the door but it appeared to be an old woman . 
'Excuse our troubling you , said Clennam . 
'Pray can you tell us where Miss Wade lives ? The voice in the darkness unexpectedly replied , 'Lives here . 
'Is she at home ? No answer coming , Mr Meagles asked again . 
'Pray is she at home ? After another delay , 'I suppose she is , said the voice abruptly 'you had better come in , and I'll ask . 
'This is odd , Clennam , said Mr Meagles , softly . 
'Odd enough , assented Clennam in the same tone , 'but we have succeeded that's the main point . 
Here's a light coming ! The light was a lamp , and the bearer was an old woman very dirty , very wrinkled and dry . 
The visitors had had a minute or two to look about them , when the door opened and Miss Wade came in . 
She was exactly the same as when they had parted . 
just as handsome , just as scornful , just as repressed . 
She manifested no surprise in seeing them , nor any other emotion . 
She requested them to be seated and declining to take a seat herself , at once anticipated any introduction of their business . 
'I apprehend , she said , 'that I know the cause of your favouring me with this visit . 
We may come to it at once . 
'The cause then , ma'am , said Mr Meagles , 'is Tattycoram . 
'Miss Wade , said Mr Meagles , 'will you be so kind as to say whether you know anything of her ? 'Surely . 
I know she is here with me . 
She has been with us a long time we don't forget her claims upon us , and I hope we know how to make allowances . 
'You hope to know how to make allowances ? she returned , in a level , measured voice . 
Which occasionally gets the better of better remembrances . 
The lady broke into a smile as she turned her eyes upon him . 
'Indeed ? was all she answered . 
She had opened a door while saying this , and now led the girl in by the hand . 
, the unquenchable passion of her own nature . 
'See here , she said , in the same level way as before . 
'Here is your patron , your master . 
He is willing to take you back , my dear , if you are sensible of the favour and choose to go . 
You can be , again , a foil to his pretty daughter , a slave to her pleasant wilfulness , and a toy in the house showing the goodness of the family . 
You can have your droll name again , playfully pointing you out and setting you apart , as it is right that you should be pointed out and set apart . 
You can again be shown to this gentleman's daughter , Harriet , and kept before her , as a living reminder of her own superiority and her gracious condescension . 
I'll not ask you , with your remembrance of my house and all belonging to it , whether you believe it . 
She looked at him for an instant , and then said frowningly , 'I won't . 
Miss Wade , take me away , please . 
The contention that raged within her had no softening in it now it was wholly between passionate defiance and stubborn defiance . 
Her rich colour , her quick blood , her rapid breath , were all setting themselves against the opportunity of retracing their steps . 
I won't ! she repeated in a low , thick voice . 
'I'd be torn to pieces first . 
'Hear that lady's voice , look at that lady's face , consider what is in that lady's heart , and think what a future lies before you . 
What can you two be together ? What can come of it ? 'I am alone here , gentlemen , observed Miss Wade , with no change of voice or manner . 
I don't know what you are , but you don't hide , can't hide , what a dark spirit you have within you . 
, I warn her against you , and I warn you against yourself . 
'Gentlemen ! said Miss Wade , calmly . 
'When you have concluded Mr Clennam , perhaps you will induce your friend 'Not without another effort , said Mr Meagles , stoutly . 
'Tattycoram , my poor dear girl , count five and twenty . 
'Do not reject the hope , the certainty , this kind man offers you , said Clennam in a low emphatic voice . 
'Turn to the friends you have not forgotten . 
And there was a visible triumph in her face when she turned it to dismiss the visitors . 
What your broken plaything is as to birth , I am . 
She has no name , I have no name . 
Her wrong is my wrong . 
I have nothing more to say to you . 
This was addressed to Mr Meagles , who sorrowfully went out . 
, he deputed Mrs Meagles to make the experiment of a personal interview . 
That worthy lady being unable to obtain one , and being steadfastly denied admission , Mr Meagles besought Arthur to essay once more what he could do . 
Nor were these the only uninvited clients whom the advertisement produced . 
The senior partner took the coach , and the junior partner took his walking stick . 
A tranquil summer sunset shone upon him as he approached the end of his walk , and passed through the meadows by the river side . 
He had that sense of peace , and of being lightened of a weight of care , which country quiet awakens in the breasts of dwellers in towns . 
Everything within his view was lovely and placid . 
The long lines of red and gold in the sky , and the glorious track of the descending sun , were all divinely calm . 
Upon the purple tree tops far away , and on the green height near at hand up which the shades were slowly creeping , there was an equal hush . 
He was slowly resuming his way , when he saw a figure in the path before him which he had , perhaps , already associated with the evening and its impressions . 
Minnie was there , alone . 
She had some roses in her hand , and seemed to have stood still on seeing him , waiting for him . 
Her face was towards him , and she appeared to have been coming from the opposite direction . 
I thought it likely I might meet you , and that made me more confident . 
'Will you let me give you one , Mr Clennam ? I gathered them as I came out of the garden . 
Indeed , I almost gathered them for you , thinking it so likely I might meet you . 
Mr Doyce arrived more than an hour ago , and told us you were walking down . 
His own hand shook , as he accepted a rose or two from hers and thanked her . 
They were now by an avenue of trees . 
Whether they turned into it on his movement or on hers matters little . 
He never knew how that was . 
'It is very grave here , said Clennam , 'but very pleasant at this hour . 
Passing along this deep shade , and out at that arch of light at the other end , we come upon the ferry and the cottage by the best approach , I think . 
She broke a momentary silence by inquiring if he knew that papa had been thinking of another tour abroad ? He said he had heard it mentioned . 
She broke another momentary silence by adding , with some hesitation , that papa had abandoned the idea . 
At this , he thought directly , 'they are to be married . 
'Mr Clennam , she said , hesitating more timidly yet , and speaking so low that he bent his head to hear her . 
'I should very much like to give you my confidence , if you would not mind having the goodness to receive it . 
I should have very much liked to have given it to you long ago , because I felt that you were becoming so much our friend . 
'How can I be otherwise than proud of it at any time ! Pray give it to me . 
'I could never have been afraid of trusting you , she returned , raising her eyes frankly to his face . 
'I think I would have done so some time ago , if I had known how . 
But I scarcely know how , even now . 
'Mr Gowan , said Arthur Clennam , 'has reason to be very happy . 
God bless his wife and him ! She wept , as she tried to thank him . 
He reassured her , took her hand as it lay with the trembling roses in it on his arm , took the remaining roses from it , and put it to his lips . 
He put the roses in his breast and they walked on for a little while , slowly and silently , under the umbrageous trees . 
'I blame you ? said Clennam . 
, she gradually composed herself , with now and then a word of encouragement from him , as they walked on slowly and almost silently under the darkening trees . 
'And , now , Minnie Gowan , at length said Clennam , smiling 'will you ask me nothing ? 'Oh ! I have very much to ask of you . 
'That's well ! I hope so I am not disappointed . 
'You know how I am loved at home , and how I love home . 
'Can you suppose I doubt it ? 'No , no . 
But it is strange , even to me , that loving it so much and being so much beloved in it , I can bear to cast it away . 
It seems so neglectful of it , so unthankful . 
'My dear girl , said Clennam , 'it is in the natural progress and change of time . 
All homes are left so . 
'Yes , I know but all homes are not left with such a blank in them as there will be in mine when I am gone . 
'I know what a change papa will feel at first , and I know that at first I cannot be to him anything like what I have been these many years . 
For there is nobody he told me so himself when he talked to me this very day there is nobody he likes so well as you , or trusts so much . 
A clue to what had passed between the father and daughter dropped like a heavy stone into the well of Clennam's heart , and swelled the water to his eyes . 
He said , cheerily , but not quite so cheerily as he tried to say , that it should be done that he gave her his faithful promise . 
, try to reconcile papa to him a little more , and use your great influence to keep him before papa's mind free from prejudice and in his real form . 
So he did not say it was too late . 
He bound himself to do all she asked , and she knew full well that he would do it . 
They were now at the last tree in the avenue . 
She stopped , and withdrew her arm . 
, forgive me to night out of your noble heart ! He stooped to meet the guileless face that met his without shrinking . 
He kissed it , and answered , Heaven knew that he had nothing to forgive . 
As he stooped to meet the innocent face once again , she whispered , 'Good bye ! and he repeated it . 
It was taking leave of all his old hopes all nobody's old restless doubts . 
The voices of Mr and Mrs Meagles and Doyce were audible directly , speaking near the garden gate . 
Hearing Pet's name among them , Clennam called out , 'She is here , with me . 
There was some little wondering and laughing until they came up but as soon as they had all come together , it ceased , and Pet glided away . 
Mr Meagles and Clennam walked up and down together for a few minutes more without speaking , until at length the former broke silence . 
'Arthur , said Mr Meagles , much subdued , 'I carry that fancy further to night . 
I feel to night , my dear fellow , as if you had loved my dead child very tenderly , and had lost her when she was like what Pet is now . 
'Thank you ! murmured Clennam , 'thank you ! And pressed his hand . 
'Will you come in ? said Mr Meagles , presently . 
Mr Meagles fell away , and he was left alone . 
When he had walked on the river's brink in the peaceful moonlight for some half an hour , he put his hand in his breast and tenderly took out the handful of roses . 
Perhaps he put them to his heart , perhaps he put them to his lips , but certainly he bent down on the shore and gently launched them on the flowing river . 
Pale and unreal in the moonlight , the river floated them away . 
The lights were bright within doors when he entered , and the faces on which they shone , his own face not excepted , were soon quietly cheerful . 
, and so to bed , and to sleep . 
CHAPTER Mrs Flintwinch goes on Dreaming The house in the city preserved its heavy dulness through all these transactions , and the invalid within it turned the same unvarying round of life . 
The wheeled chair had its associated remembrances and reveries , one may suppose , as every place that is made the station of a human being has . 
What scenes and actors the stern woman most reviewed , as she sat from season to season in her one dark room , none knew but herself . 
This might easily be , the house having been long deserted but he did receive letters , and comers , and keep books , and correspond . 
Little Dorrit had finished a long day's work in Mrs Clennam's room , and was neatly gathering up her shreds and odds and ends before going home . 
Mrs Clennam , with a deep contraction of her brows , was looking at him . 
'Mr Casby knows , said she , 'that I am not subject to changes . 
The change that I await here is the great change . 
'Indeed , ma'am ? returned Mr Pancks , with a wandering eye towards the figure of the little seamstress on her knee picking threads and fraying of her work from the carpet . 
'You look nicely , ma'am . 
'I bear what I have to bear , she answered . 
'Do you what you have to do . 
'Thank you , ma'am , said Mr Pancks , 'such is my endeavour . 
'You are often in this direction , are you not ? asked Mrs Clennam . 
'Why , yes , ma'am , said Pancks , 'rather so lately I have lately been round this way a good deal , owing to one thing and another . 
'Beg Mr Casby and his daughter not to trouble themselves , by deputy , about me . 
When they wish to see me , they know I am here to see them . 
They have no need to trouble themselves to send . 
You have no need to trouble yourself to come . 
'Not the least trouble , ma'am , said Mr Pancks . 
'You really are looking uncommonly nicely , ma'am . 
The dismissal , and its accompanying finger pointed straight at the door , was so curt and direct that Mr Pancks did not see his way to prolong his visit . 
Mrs Clennam , her chin resting on her hand , followed him with attentive and darkly distrustful eyes and Affery stood looking at her as if she were spell bound . 
Slowly and thoughtfully , Mrs Clennam's eyes turned from the door by which Pancks had gone out , to Little Dorrit , rising from the carpet . 
With her chin drooping more heavily on her hand , and her eyes vigilant and lowering , the sick woman sat looking at her until she attracted her attention . 
Little Dorrit coloured under such a gaze , and looked down . 
Mrs Clennam still sat intent . 
'What has he said to you ? 'I don't understand what he has said , he is so strange . 
But nothing rough or disagreeable . 
'Why does he come here to see you ? 'I don't know , ma'am , said Little Dorrit , with perfect frankness . 
'You know that he does come here to see you ? 'I have fancied so , said Little Dorrit . 
'But why he should come here or anywhere for that , ma'am , I can't think . 
Some minutes elapsed before she came out of this thoughtfulness , and resumed her hard composure . 
Little Dorrit in the meanwhile had been waiting to go , but afraid to disturb her by moving . 
She now ventured to leave the spot where she had been standing since she had risen , and to pass gently round by the wheeled chair . 
She stopped at its side to say 'Good night , ma'am . 
Mrs Clennam put out her hand , and laid it on her arm . 
Little Dorrit , confused under the touch , stood faltering . 
Perhaps some momentary recollection of the story of the Princess may have been in her mind . 
'Tell me , Little Dorrit , said Mrs Clennam , 'have you many friends now ? 'Very few , ma'am . 
Besides you , only Miss Flora and one more . 
'Meaning , said Mrs Clennam , with her unbent finger again pointing to the door , 'that man ? 'Oh no , ma'am ! 'Some friend of his , perhaps ? 'No ma'am . 
Little Dorrit earnestly shook her head . 
'Oh no ! No one at all like him , or belonging to him . 
'Well ! said Mrs Clennam , almost smiling . 
'It is no affair of mine . 
I ask , because I take an interest in you and because I believe I was your friend when you had no other who could serve you . 
Is that so ? 'Yes , ma'am indeed it is . 
I have been here many a time when , but for you and the work you gave me , we should have wanted everything . 
'We , repeated Mrs Clennam , looking towards the watch , once her dead husband's , which always lay upon her table . 
'Are there many of you ? 'Only father and I , now . 
I mean , only father and I to keep regularly out of what we get . 
'That's well said ! Mrs Clennam quickly returned . 
'That's the truth ! You are a good , thoughtful girl . 
You are a grateful girl too , or I much mistake you . 
'It is only natural to be that . 
There is no merit in being that , said Little Dorrit . 
The idea quite stunned her , as she attended the light footsteps down the stairs , that the house door might be safely shut . 
, 'Pancks the gipsy , fortune telling , and went away . 
'Lord save us , here's a gipsy and a fortune teller in it now ! cried Mistress Affery . 
'What next ! She stood at the open door , staggering herself with this enigma , on a rainy , thundery evening . 
From this posture she started up suddenly , with a half scream , feeling something on her shoulder . 
It was the touch of a hand of a man's hand . 
The man was dressed like a traveller , in a foraging cap with fur about it , and a heap of cloak . 
He looked like a foreigner . 
He had a quantity of hair and moustache jet black , except at the shaggy ends , where it had a tinge of red and a high hook nose . 
He laughed at Mistress Affery's start and cry and as he laughed , his moustache went up under his nose , and his nose came down over his moustache . 
'What's the matter ? he asked in plain English . 
'What are you frightened at ? 'At you , panted Affery . 
'Me , madam ? 'And the dismal evening , and and everything , said Affery . 
'And here ! The wind has been and blown the door to , and I can't get in . 
'Hah ! said the gentleman , who took that very coolly . 
'Where about here ? 'Where ! cried Affery , goaded into another inspection of the keyhole . 
'Up there ! said Affery . 
'Hah ! I am of a fair size , but could not have the honour of presenting myself in that room without a ladder . 
'Business hours , I apprehend , are over for the day ? 'Yes , yes , yes , cried Affery . 
'Let me make , then , a fair proposal . 
Fairness is a part of my character . 
I am just landed from the packet boat , as you may see . 
, still remains to be done . 
Now , if you will fetch any authorised neighbouring somebody to do it in return for my opening the door , I'll open the door . 
If this arrangement should be objectionable , I'll and with the same smile he made a significant feint of backing away . 
Mistress Affery , heartily glad to effect the proposed compromise , gave in her willing adhesion to it . 
Evidently close at hand from the peculiar shock it communicated to the air , yet subdued as if it were far off . 
A tremble , a rumble , and a fall of some light dry matter . 
'What the Devil is it ? 'I don't know what it is , but I've heard the like of it over and over again , said Affery , who had caught his arm . 
He could hardly be a very brave man , even she thought in her dreamy start and fright , for his trembling lips had turned colourless . 
After listening a few moments , he made light of it . 
'Bah ! Nothing ! Now , my dear madam , I think you spoke of some clever personage . 
'Don't you say anything about the door and me , then , whispered Affery . 
'And don't you stir from here , or speak if she calls , while I run round the corner . 
'Madam , I am a statue . 
'Death of my soul ! he exclaimed . 
'Why , how did you get here ? Mr Flintwinch , to whom these words were spoken , repaid the stranger's wonder in full . 
What's it about ? Who is it ? What does it mean ! Speak out or be choked ! It's the only choice I'll give you . 
The stranger , however , picking up her cap with an air of gallantry , interposed . 
'Permit me , said he , laying his hand on the shoulder of Jeremiah , who stopped and released his victim . 
Husband and wife I know , from this playfulness . 
Haha ! Always agreeable to see that relation playfully maintained . 
'It's all right , I am here , Affery is coming with your light . 
'I was going to do so . 
Please to stand where you are while I get one . 
The stranger , taking advantage of this fitful illumination of his visage , looked intently and wonderingly at him . 
'Be so good , said Jeremiah , closing the house door , and taking a pretty sharp survey of the smiling visitor in his turn , 'as to step into my counting house . 
It's all right , I tell you ! petulantly breaking off to answer the voice up stairs , still unsatisfied , though Affery was there , speaking in persuasive tones . 
'Don't I tell you it's all right ? Preserve the woman , has she no reason at all in her ! 'Timorous , remarked the stranger . 
'Timorous ? said Mr Flintwinch , turning his head to retort , as he went before with the candle . 
'More courageous than ninety men in a hundred , sir , let me tell you . 
'Though an invalid ? 'Many years an invalid . 
The only one of that name left in the House now . 
Here he put the light on his desk , and said to the stranger , with his wryest twist upon him , 'Your commands . 
I don't know it , said Jeremiah . 
Jeremiah stood in his favourite attitude . 
'Indeed ? said Jeremiah , perversely . 
'But I have not received any letter of advice from anywhere respecting anybody of the name of Blandois . 
'Just so , said the stranger . 
'JUST so , said Jeremiah . 
Mr Blandois , not at all put out by this omission on the part of the correspondents of the house of Clennam and Co . 
, took his pocket book from his breast pocket , selected a letter from that receptacle , and handed it to Mr Flintwinch . 
'No doubt you are well acquainted with the writing . 
Perhaps the letter speaks for itself , and requires no advice . 
You are a far more competent judge of such affairs than I am . 
It is my misfortune to be , not so much a man of business , as what the world calls a gentleman . 
'Such facilities as he may require and such attentions as may lie in your power , c . 
'Also have to add that if you will honour M. Blandois' drafts at sight to the extent of , say Fifty Pounds sterling , c . 
'Very good , sir , said Mr Flintwinch . 
I observe , from the date of this , that we could not yet be advised of it . 
Probably you came over with the delayed mail that brings the advice . 
You see me in the plight in which I came out of the packet within this half hour . 
Swagger and an air of authorised condescension do so much , that Mr Flintwinch had already begun to think this a highly gentlemanly personage . 
Have the kindness to advise me , a total stranger , where , and money is a matter of perfect indifference until to morrow . 
The nearer the place , the better . 
Next door , if that's all . 
Mr Flintwinch was slowly beginning , 'For a gentleman of your habits , there is not in this immediate neighbourhood any hotel when Mr Blandois took him up . 
'So much for my habits ! my dear sir , snapping his fingers . 
'A citizen of the world has no habits . 
That I am , in my poor way , a gentleman , by Heaven ! I will not deny , but I have no unaccommodating prejudiced habits . 
A clean room , a hot dish for dinner , and a bottle of not absolutely poisonous wine , are all I want tonight . 
But I want that much without the trouble of going one unnecessary inch to get it . 
'I dispense with style ! said Mr Blandois , waving his hand . 
, and I shall be infinitely obliged . 
Mr Flintwinch , upon this , looked up his hat , and lighted Mr Blandois across the hall again . 
'Oblige me , said the visitor , on his saying so , 'by presenting my card of visit . 
The house was kept in a homely manner , and the condescension of Mr Blandois was infinite . 
His greed at dinner , too , was closely in keeping with the greed of Monsieur Rigaud at breakfast . 
His avaricious manner of collecting all the eatables about him , and devouring some with his eyes while devouring others with his jaws , was the same manner . 
The softly moving hands that were so busy among the dishes had the old wicked facility of the hands that had clung to the bars . 
She is never to blame in any such instance . 
You shall win , however the game goes . 
They shall all confess your merit , Blandois . 
You shall subdue the society which has grievously wronged you , to your own high spirit . 
Tea was prepared there , and such little company arrangements had been made as usually attended the reception of expected visitors . 
They were slight on the greatest occasion , never extending beyond the production of the China tea service , and the covering of the bed with a sober and sad drapery . 
Mr Flintwinch presented the gentleman commended to the consideration of Clennam and Co . 
Mrs Clennam , who had the letter lying before her , bent her head and requested him to sit . 
They looked very closely at one another . 
That was but natural curiosity . 
'I thank you , sir , for thinking of a disabled woman like me . 
Few who come here on business have any remembrance to bestow on one so removed from observation . 
It would be idle to expect that they should have . 
Out of sight , out of mind . 
While I am grateful for the exception , I don't complain of the rule . 
Mr Blandois , in his most gentlemanly manner , was afraid he had disturbed her by unhappily presenting himself at such an unconscionable time . 
For which he had already offered his best apologies to Mr he begged pardon but by name had not the distinguished honour 'Mr Flintwinch has been connected with the House many years . 
Mr Blandois was Mr Flintwinch's most obedient humble servant . 
He entreated Mr Flintwinch to receive the assurance of his profoundest consideration . 
'My husband being dead , said Mrs Clennam , 'and my son preferring another pursuit , our old House has no other representative in these days than Mr Flintwinch . 
'What do you call yourself ? was the surly demand of that gentleman . 
'You have the head of two men . 
have the kindness not to forget us , and we retain the power of doing what they entrust to us as efficiently as we ever did . 
This however is not interesting to you . 
You are English , sir ? 'Faith , madam , no I am neither born nor bred in England . 
In effect , I am of no country , said Mr Blandois , stretching out his leg and smiting it 'I descend from half a dozen countries . 
'You have been much about the world ? 'It is true . 
By Heaven , madam , I have been here and there and everywhere ! 'You have no ties , probably . 
Are not married ? 'Madam , said Mr Blandois , with an ugly fall of his eyebrows , 'I adore your sex , but I am not married never was . 
Thus a few ghostly moments supervened , when they were all confusedly staring without knowing why . 
'How is it possible to understand this good creature ? 'It's NOT possible , said Mr Flintwinch , screwing himself rapidly in that direction . 
'She don't know what she means . 
She's an idiot , a wanderer in her mind . 
The visitor gradually broke into a smile , and sat down again . 
'You'll excuse her , Mr Blandois , said Jeremiah , pouring out the tea himself , 'she's failing and breaking up that's what she's about . 
Do you take sugar , sir ? 'Thank you , no tea for me . 
, and it was in placing the cup conveniently within her reach that the watch , lying before her as it always did , attracted his attention . 
Mrs Clennam looked suddenly up at him . 
'May I be permitted ? Thank you . 
A fine old fashioned watch , he said , taking it in his hand . 
'Heavy for use , but massive and genuine . 
I have a partiality for everything genuine . 
Such as I am , I am genuine myself . 
Hah ! A gentleman's watch with two cases in the old fashion . 
May I remove it from the outer case ? Thank you . 
Aye ? An old silk watch lining , worked with beads ! I have often seen these among old Dutch people and Belgians . 
Quaint things ! 'They are old fashioned , too , said Mrs Clennam . 
But this is not so old as the watch , I think ? 'I think not . 
'Extraordinary how they used to complicate these cyphers ! remarked Mr Blandois , glancing up with his own smile again . 
'Now is this D. N. F. ? It might be almost anything . 
N. F. was some tender , lovely , fascinating fair creature , I make no doubt , observed Mr Blandois , as he snapped on the case again . 
'I adore her memory on the assumption . 
Unfortunately for my peace of mind , I adore but too readily . 
It may be a vice , it may be a virtue , but adoration of female beauty and merit constitutes three parts of my character , madam . 
Mr Flintwinch had by this time poured himself out another cup of tea , which he was swallowing in gulps as before , with his eyes directed to the invalid . 
'You may be heart free here , sir , she returned to Mr Blandois . 
'Those letters are not intended , I believe , for the initials of any name . 
'Of a motto , perhaps , said Mr Blandois , casually . 
To lead a life as monotonous as mine has been during many years , is not the way to forget . 
To lead a life of self correction is not the way to forget . 
offences to expiate and peace to make , does not justify the desire to forget . 
Therefore I have long dismissed it , and I neither forget nor wish to forget . 
It was curious how she seized the occasion to argue with some invisible opponent . 
Perhaps with her own better sense , always turning upon herself and her own deception . 
'If I forgot my ignorances in my life of health and freedom , I might complain of the life to which I am now condemned . 
I never do I never have done . 
But I have no such tenderness . 
My affliction might otherwise have had no meaning to me . 
Hence I would forget , and I do forget , nothing . 
Hence I am contented , and say it is better with me than with millions . 
As she spoke these words , she put her hand upon the watch , and restored it to the precise spot on her little table which it always occupied . 
With her touch lingering upon it , she sat for some moments afterwards , looking at it steadily and half defiantly . 
Mr Blandois , during this exposition , had been strictly attentive , keeping his eyes fastened on the lady , and thoughtfully stroking his moustache with his two hands . 
Mr Flintwinch had been a little fidgety , and now struck in . 
'There , there , there ! said he . 
'That is quite understood , Mrs Clennam , and you have spoken piously and well . 
Mr Blandois , I suspect , is not of a pious cast . 
'On the contrary , sir ! that gentleman protested , snapping his fingers . 
'Your pardon ! It's a part of my character . 
I am sensitive , ardent , conscientious , and imaginative . 
, and approached to take his leave of Mrs Clennam . 
Being so considerate as to visit me , I hope you will be likewise so considerate as to overlook that . 
Don't compliment me , if you please . 
For he was evidently going to do it . 
'Mr Flintwinch will be happy to render you any service , and I hope your stay in this city may prove agreeable . 
Mr Blandois thanked her , and kissed his hand several times . 
But it's a genuine old room . 
'It is a genuine old house , said Mrs Clennam , with her frozen smile . 
'A place of no pretensions , but a piece of antiquity . 
'Faith ! cried the visitor . 
'If Mr Flintwinch would do me the favour to take me through the rooms on my way out , he could hardly oblige me more . 
An old house is a weakness with me . 
I have many weaknesses , but none greater . 
I love and study the picturesque in all its varieties . 
I have been called picturesque myself . 
It is no merit to be picturesque I have greater merits , perhaps but I may be , by an accident . 
Sympathy , sympathy ! 'I tell you beforehand , Mr Blandois , that you'll find it very dingy and very bare , said Jeremiah , taking up the candle . 
'It's not worth your looking at . 
'You don't care to go up stairs ? said Jeremiah , on the landing . 
'On the contrary , Mr Flintwinch if not tiresome to you , I shall be ravished ! Mr Flintwinch , therefore , wormed himself up the staircase , and Mr Blandois followed close . 
They ascended to the great garret bed room which Arthur had occupied on the night of his return . 
'There , Mr Blandois ! said Jeremiah , showing it , 'I hope you may think that worth coming so high to see . 
Mr Blandois being enraptured , they walked through other garrets and passages , and came down the staircase again . 
With this discovery in his thoughts , he turned about on the staircase for another experiment . 
He postponed looking at Mr Blandois again until this accidental inequality was removed by their having entered the late Mr Clennam's room . 
But , then twisting himself suddenly round upon him , he found his look unchanged . 
'A most admirable old house , smiled Mr Blandois . 
Do you never hear any haunted noises here ? 'Noises , returned Mr Flintwinch . 
'Nor see any devils ? 'Not , said Mr Flintwinch , grimly screwing himself at his questioner , 'not any that introduce themselves under that name and in that capacity . 
'Haha ! A portrait here , I see . 
'It's a portrait , sir , as you observe . 
'May I ask the subject , Mr Flintwinch ? 'Mr Clennam , deceased . 
'Former owner of the remarkable watch , perhaps ? said the visitor . 
Mr Flintwinch , who had cast his eyes towards the portrait , twisted himself about again , and again found himself the subject of the same look and smile . 
'Yes , Mr Blandois , he replied tartly . 
'It was his , and his uncle's before him , and Lord knows who before him and that's all I can tell you of its pedigree . 
'That's a strongly marked character , Mr Flintwinch , our friend up stairs . 
'She is a remarkable woman . 
Great fortitude great strength of mind . 
'They must have been very happy , said Blandois . 
'Who ? demanded Mr Flintwinch , with another screw at him . 
'As happy as most other married people , I suppose , returned Mr Flintwinch . 
There are secrets in all families . 
'Secrets ! cried Mr Blandois , quickly . 
'Say it again , my son . 
'I say , replied Mr Flintwinch , upon whom he had swelled himself so suddenly that Mr Flintwinch found his face almost brushed by the dilated chest . 
'I say there are secrets in all families . 
'So there are , cried the other , clapping him on both shoulders , and rolling him backwards and forwards . 
'Haha ! you are right . 
It was in vain for Mr Flintwinch to try another screw at him . 
He had his laugh out . 
'But , favour me with the candle a moment , he said , when he had done . 
'Let us have a look at the husband of the remarkable lady . 
Hah ! holding up the light at arm's length . 
'A decided expression of face here too , though not of the same character . 
Beyond now appearing perhaps , to have been left hanging a trifle too long before that friendly operation of cutting down , he outwardly maintained an equable composure . 
They had brought their survey to a close in the little room at the side of the hall , and he stood there , eyeing Mr Blandois . 
'I am glad you are so well satisfied , sir , was his calm remark . 
You seem to be quite in good spirits . 
'In admirable spirits , returned Blandois . 
'Word of honour ! never more refreshed in spirits . 
Do you ever have presentiments , Mr Flintwinch ? 'I am not sure that I know what you mean by the term , sir , replied that gentleman . 
'Say , in this case , Mr Flintwinch , undefined anticipations of pleasure to come . 
'I can't say I'm sensible of such a sensation at present , returned Mr Flintwinch with the utmost gravity . 
'If I should find it coming on , I'll mention it . 
'Now I , said Blandois , 'I , my son , have a presentiment to night that we shall be well acquainted . 
Do you find it coming on ? 'N no , returned Mr Flintwinch , deliberately inquiring of himself . 
'I can't say I do . 
'I have a strong presentiment that we shall become intimately acquainted . 
You have no feeling of that sort yet ? 'Not yet , said Mr Flintwinch . 
The thunder and lightning had long ago passed over , but the rain was furious . 
coiled himself upon the window seat , while Mr Flintwinch took a chair opposite to him , with the table between them . 
Mr Blandois proposed having the largest glasses in the house , to which Mr Flintwinch assented . 
Mr Flintwinch gravely pledged him , and drank all the wine he could get , and said nothing . 
In short , Mr Blandois found that to pour port wine into the reticent Flintwinch was , not to open him but to shut him up . 
He therefore terminated the entertainment at the end of the third bottle . 
'You will draw upon us to morrow , sir , said Mr Flintwinch , with a business like face at parting . 
'My Cabbage , returned the other , taking him by the collar with both hands , 'I'll draw upon you have no fear . 
Inquiring after him at night , Mr Flintwinch found , with surprise , that he had paid his bill and gone back to the Continent by way of Calais . 
Nevertheless , Jeremiah scraped out of his cogitating face a lively conviction that Mr Blandois would keep his word on this occasion , and would be seen again . 
, creeping along with a scared air , as though bewildered and a little frightened by the noise and bustle . 
This old man is always a little old man . 
His coat is a colour , and cut , that never was the mode anywhere , at any period . 
Clearly , it was not made for him , or for any individual mortal . 
It has always large dull metal buttons , similar to no other buttons . 
This old man wears a hat , a thumbed and napless and yet an obdurate hat , which has never adapted itself to the shape of his poor head . 
His coarse shirt and his coarse neckcloth have no more individuality than his coat and hat they have the same character of not being his of not being anybody's . 
Sometimes , on holidays towards evening , he will be seen to walk with a slightly increased infirmity , and his old eyes will glimmer with a moist and marshy light . 
Then the little old man is drunk . 
A very small measure will overset him he may be bowled off his unsteady legs with a half pint pot . 
and on his bad behaviour they shut him up closer than ever in a grove of two score and nineteen more old men , every one of whom smells of all the others . 
, on the settlement of that execution which had carried Mr Plornish to the Marshalsea College . 
had sat in a corner of the Plornish fireside , and taken his bite and sup out of the Plornish cupboard . 
But no poverty in him , and no coat on him that never was the mode , and no Old Men's Ward for his dwelling place , could quench his daughter's admiration . 
Mrs Plornish was as proud of her father's talents as she could possibly have been if they had made him Lord Chancellor . 
She had as firm a belief in the sweetness and propriety of his manners as she could possibly have had if he had been Lord Chamberlain . 
'Here's Father , she would say , presenting him to a neighbour . 
'Father will soon be home with us for good , now . 
Ain't Father looking well ? Father's a sweeter singer than ever you'd never have forgotten it , if you'd aheard him just now . 
This he attributed , after much reflection , to his musical genius not having been scientifically developed in his youth . 
'For why , argued Mr Plornish , 'why go a binding music when you've got it in yourself ? That's where it is , I consider . 
Old Nandy had a patron one patron . 
Mr Dorrit was in the habit of receiving this old man as if the old man held of him in vassalage under some feudal tenure . 
He made little treats and teas for him , as if he came in with his homage from some outlying district where the tenantry were in a primitive state . 
It seemed as if there were moments when he could by no means have sworn but that the old man was an ancient retainer of his , who had been meritoriously faithful . 
When he mentioned him , he spoke of him casually as his old pensioner . 
He had a wonderful satisfaction in seeing him , and in commenting on his decayed condition after he was gone . 
It appeared to him amazing that he could hold up his head at all , poor creature . 
'In the Workhouse , sir , the Union no privacy , no visitors , no station , no respect , no speciality . 
Most deplorable ! It was Old Nandy's birthday , and they let him out . 
He said nothing about its being his birthday , or they might have kept him in for such old men should not be born . 
He passed along the streets as usual to Bleeding Heart Yard , and had his dinner with his daughter and son in law , and gave them Phyllis . 
He had hardly concluded , when Little Dorrit looked in to see how they all were . 
'No , they're rather hard on poor Father , said Mrs Plornish with a lengthening face , 'and don't let him have half as much change and fresh air as would benefit him . 
But he'll soon be home for good , now . 
Won't you , Father ? 'Yes , my dear , I hope so . 
In good time , please God . 
Here Mr Plornish delivered himself of an oration which he invariably made , word for word the same , on all such opportunities . 
It was couched in the following terms 'John Edward Nandy . 
While there's a ounce of wittles or drink of any sort in this present roof , you're fully welcome to your share on it . 
While there's a handful of fire or a mouthful of bed in this present roof , you're fully welcome to your share on it . 
If so be as there should be nothing in this present roof , you should be as welcome to your share on it as if it was something , much or little . 
with enormous labour , Mrs Plornish's father pipingly replied 'I thank you kindly , Thomas , and I know your intentions well , which is the same I thank you kindly for . 
'There , Father ! cried Mrs Plornish . 
, and it was a special birthday of the old man . 
They were within five minutes of their destination , when , at the corner of her own street , they came upon Fanny in her new bonnet bound for the same port . 
'Why , good gracious me , Amy ! cried that young lady starting . 
'O Fanny ! 'I tell you not to Fanny me , for I'll not submit to it ! I never knew such a thing . 
The way in which you are resolved and determined to disgrace us on all occasions , is really infamous . 
And you do know it does , and you do it because you know it does . 
The principal pleasure of your life is to remind your family of their misfortunes . 
And the next great pleasure of your existence is to keep low company . 
But , however , if you have no sense of decency , I have . 
You'll please to allow me to go on the other side of the way , unmolested . 
With this , she bounced across to the opposite pavement . 
Give me your arm again , Mr Nandy . 
We shall soon be there now . 
So she talked to him as she had talked before , and they came to the Lodge and found Mr Chivery on the lock , and went in . 
Now , it happened that the Father of the Marshalsea was sauntering towards the Lodge at the moment when they were coming out of it , entering the prison arm in arm . 
The three came into the room almost together and the Father sat down in his chair , buried his face in his hands , and uttered a groan . 
'Of course , said Fanny . 
Poor , afflicted Pa ! Now , I hope you believe me , Miss ? 'What is it , father ? cried Little Dorrit , bending over him . 
But you have cut me to the soul . 
'Innocent in intention ! the implacable Fanny struck in . 
'Stuff in intention ! Low in intention ! Lowering of the family in intention ! 'Father ! cried Little Dorrit , pale and trembling . 
Tell me how it is , that I may not do it again ! 'How it is , you prevaricating little piece of goods ! cried Fanny . 
'You know how it is . 
I may have succeeded I may not . 
You may know it you may not . 
I have endured everything here but humiliation . 
That I have happily been spared until this day . 
Here his convulsive grasp unclosed itself , and he put his pocket handkerchief to his eyes again . 
Little Dorrit , on the ground beside him , with her imploring hand upon his arm , watched him remorsefully . 
Coming out of his fit of grief , he clenched his pocket handkerchief once more . 
'Humiliation I have happily been spared until this day . 
But this day , this minute , I have keenly felt it . 
'Of course ! How could it be otherwise ? exclaimed the irrepressible Fanny . 
'Careering and prancing about with a Pauper ! . 
'I do nothing but beg and pray you to be comforted and overlook it . 
What I have been so unhappy as to do , I have done in mistake . 
The Father of the Marshalsea in the meantime took his younger daughter to his breast , and patted her head . 
'There , there ! Say no more , Amy , say no more , my child . 
I will forget it as soon as I can . 
I , with hysterical cheerfulness , 'I shall soon be able to dismiss it . 
It is quite true that this is the case , my dear child . 
At the same time , I preserve in doing this , if I may ha if I may use the expression Spirit . 
And there are some things which are , he stopped to sob , 'irreconcilable with that , and wound that wound it deeply . 
It is not that I have seen my good Amy attentive , and ha condescending to my old pensioner it is not that that hurts me . 
cried 'Come in ! 'Ah , Young John ! said the Father , in an altered and calmed voice . 
The speaker's attention was much distracted by the piteous spectacle of Little Dorrit at her father's feet , with her head turned away . 
'Indeed , John ? Thank you . 
, he reddened a little , and patted Amy on the head afresh . 
'Thank you , Young John . 
Much obliged to you for your attention . 
No one waiting ? 'No , sir , no one waiting . 
'Say we sent our remembrances , will you ? Say kind remembrances , if you please , Young John . 
'Thank you , sir , I will . 
'There , there , Amy ! said the Father , when Young John had closed the door , 'let us say no more about it . 
The last few minutes had improved his spirits remarkably , and he was quite lightsome . 
Will you fetch him , my child , or shall I ? 'If you wouldn't mind , father , said Little Dorrit , trying to bring her sobbing to a close . 
'Certainly I will go , my dear . 
I forgot your eyes are rather red . 
There ! Cheer up , Amy . 
Don't be uneasy about me . 
I am quite myself again , my love , quite myself . 
Go to your room , Amy , and make yourself look comfortable and pleasant to receive Mr Clennam . 
'I would rather stay in my own room , Father , returned Little Dorrit , finding it more difficult than before to regain her composure . 
'I would far rather not see Mr Clennam . 
'Oh , fie , fie , my dear , that's folly . 
Mr Clennam is a very gentlemanly man very gentlemanly . 
A little reserved at times but I will say extremely gentlemanly . 
I couldn't think of your not being here to receive Mr Clennam , my dear , especially this afternoon . 
So go and freshen yourself up , Amy go and freshen yourself up , like a good girl . 
Thus directed , Little Dorrit dutifully rose and obeyed only pausing for a moment as she went out of the room , to give her sister a kiss of reconciliation . 
'Come , Nandy ! said he , with great suavity . 
As they went along the yard , the Father of the Marshalsea presented him to a Collegian of recent date . 
'An old acquaintance of mine , sir , an old pensioner . 
And then said , 'Be covered , my good Nandy put your hat on , with great consideration . 
'Amy , my love , you know Mr Clennam even better than I have the happiness of doing . 
Fanny , my dear , you are acquainted with Mr Clennam . 
'This , Mr Clennam , you must know , is an old pensioner of mine , Old Nandy , a very faithful old man . 
You know Plornish , I think ? I think my daughter Amy has mentioned to me that you know poor Plornish ? 'O yes ! said Arthur Clennam . 
'Well , sir , this is Mrs Plornish's father . 
'Indeed ? I am glad to see him . 
'You would be more glad if you knew his many good qualities , Mr Clennam . 
'I hope I shall come to know them through knowing him , said Arthur , secretly pitying the bowed and submissive figure . 
'It is a holiday with him , and he comes to see his old friends , who are always glad to see him , observed the Father of the Marshalsea . 
By this time Maggy , quietly assisted by her Little Mother , had spread the board , and the repast was ready . 
It being hot weather and the prison very close , the window was as wide open as it could be pushed . 
So , with a gulf between him and the good company of about a foot in width , standard measure , Mrs Plornish's father was handsomely regaled . 
Clennam had never seen anything like his magnanimous protection by that other Father , he of the Marshalsea and was lost in the contemplation of its many wonders . 
At another time he asked him , 'Do you walk much , Nandy , about the yard within the walls of that place of yours ? 'No , sir no . 
I haven't any great liking for that . 
'No , to be sure , he assented . 
'How old , sir ? Let me think now . 
'John Edward , sir ? Well , I really forget . 
I couldn't say at this minute , sir , whether it's two and two months , or whether it's two and five months . 
It's one or the other . 
'Don't distress yourself by worrying your mind about it , he returned , with infinite forbearance . 
'We don't call this a shilling , Nandy , you know , he said , putting one in his hand . 
'Honoured sir , I thank you . 
My thanks and duty to Miss Amy and Miss Fanny . 
I wish you good night , Mr Clennam . 
'And mind you don't forget us , you know , Nandy , said the Father . 
'You must come again , mind , whenever you have an afternoon . 
You must not come out without seeing us , or we shall be jealous . 
Be very careful how you descend the stairs , Nandy they are rather uneven and worn . 
The poor old fellow is a dismal wreck . 
When Little Dorrit had her work on the table , and Maggy hers on the bedstead , Fanny fell to tying her bonnet as a preliminary to her departure . 
Arthur , still having his purpose , still remained . 
At this time the door opened , without any notice , and Mr Tip came in . 
He kissed Amy as she started up to meet him , nodded to Fanny , nodded to his father , gloomed on the visitor without further recognition , and sat down . 
'Tip , dear , said Little Dorrit , mildly , shocked by this , 'don't you see 'Yes , I see , Amy . 
And I suppose , added the lofty young man , after a moment's pause , 'that visitor will understand me , when I say that's all I say . 
In short , I suppose the visitor will understand that he hasn't used me like a gentleman . 
'I do not understand that , observed the obnoxious personage referred to with tranquillity . 
'Now , don't ask me how I dare , father , because that's bosh . 
As to the fact of the line of conduct I choose to adopt towards the individual present , you ought to be proud of my showing a proper spirit . 
'I should think so ! cried Fanny . 
'A proper spirit ? said the Father . 
'Yes , a proper spirit a becoming spirit . 
Is it come to this that my son teaches me ME spirit ! 'Now , don't let us bother about it , father , or have any row on the subject . 
I have fully made up my mind that the individual present has not treated me like a gentleman . 
And there's an end of it . 
'But there is not an end of it , sir , returned the Father . 
'But there shall not be an end of it . 
You have made up your mind ? You have made up your mind ? 'Yes , I have . 
No , Mr Clennam , I beg , sir . 
Don't ask me to desist there is a hum a general principle involved here , which rises even above considerations of ha hospitality . 
I object to the assertion made by my son . 
I ha I personally repel it . 
'Why , what is it to you , father ? returned the son , over his shoulder . 
'What is it to me , sir ? I have a hum a spirit , sir , that will not endure it . 
I , he took out his pocket handkerchief again and dabbed his face . 
'I am outraged and insulted by it . 
Let me suppose that that accommodation could have been easily extended , and was not extended , and that that individual informed me that he begged to be excused . 
He said his spirit was up , and wouldn't endure this . 
'What I have made up my mind about has nothing to do with you . 
What I said had nothing to do with you . 
Why need you go trying on other people's hats ? 'I reply it has everything to do with me , returned the Father . 
I am very sorry it happens here , and you here , upon my soul I am but I can't altogether part with my spirit , even for your sake , old girl . 
'Such , you see , Mr Clennam , said the Father , 'are the incongruities of my position here . 
But a public duty ! No man , I am sure , would more readily recognise a public duty than yourself . 
Clennam besought him not to delay a moment . 
Clennam assured him that it had made no impression on his mind , and therefore required no erasure . 
Maggy counted as nobody , and she was by . 
, and her serviceable eye brought to bear upon her occupation , on the window side of the room . 
What with her flapping cap , and what with her unserviceable eye , she was quite partitioned off from her Little Mother , whose seat was opposite the window . 
It was the quietest time the College knew , saving the night hours when the Collegians took the benefit of the act of sleep . 
As Arthur Clennam moved to sit down by the side of Little Dorrit , she trembled so that she had much ado to hold her needle . 
Clennam gently put his hand upon her work , and said , 'Dear Little Dorrit , let me lay it down . 
She yielded it to him , and he put it aside . 
Her hands were then nervously clasping together , but he took one of them . 
'How seldom I have seen you lately , Little Dorrit ! 'I have been busy , sir . 
'But I heard only to day , said Clennam , 'by mere accident , of your having been with those good people close by me . 
Why not come to me , then ? 'I I don't know . 
Or rather , I thought you might be busy too . 
'My child , your manner is so changed ! The trembling was now quite beyond her control . 
Softly withdrawing her hand , and laying it in her other hand , she sat before him with her head bent and her whole form trembling . 
'My own Little Dorrit , said Clennam , compassionately . 
Maggy looked round of a sudden , and stared for at least a minute but did not interpose . 
Clennam waited some little while before he spoke again . 
'I cannot bear , he said then , 'to see you weep but I hope this is a relief to an overcharged heart . 
'Yes it is , sir . 
'Well , well ! I feared you would think too much of what passed here just now . 
It is of no moment not the least . 
I am only unfortunate to have come in the way . 
Let it go by with these tears . 
It is not worth one of them . 
One of them ? Such an idle thing should be repeated , with my glad consent , fifty times a day , to save you a moment's heart ache , Little Dorrit . 
'Forgetfulness in you who remember so many and so much , would be new indeed . 
'Nor tried ? Nor hurt ? she asked him , anxiously . 
It fell to Clennam now , to be not quite certain how to answer . 
He said in reply 'To speak the truth , I have been a little troubled , but it is over . 
Do I show it so plainly ? I ought to have more fortitude and self command than that . 
I must learn them of you . 
Who could teach me better ! He never thought that she saw in him what no one else could see . 
He never thought that in the whole world there were no other eyes that looked upon him with the same light and strength as hers . 
Besides , it is a privilege and pleasure to confide in my Little Dorrit . 
'Do I know her , sir ? asked Little Dorrit . 
'Not the lady who has been kind to me for your sake ? 'Flora . 
Do you think 'I never quite thought so , said Little Dorrit , more to herself than him . 
'I did wonder at it a little . 
Being wiser , I counted up my years and considered what I am , and looked back , and looked forward , and found that I should soon be grey . 
I found that I had climbed the hill , and passed the level ground upon the top , and was descending quickly . 
If he had known the sharpness of the pain he caused the patient heart , in speaking thus ! While doing it , too , with the purpose of easing and serving her . 
'For those reasons assuredly , Little Dorrit , but for another too . 
So far removed , so different , and so much older , I am the better fitted for your friend and adviser . 
I mean , I am the more easily to be trusted and any little constraint that you might feel with another , may vanish before me . 
Why have you kept so retired from me ? Tell me . 
My place and use are here . 
I am much better here , said Little Dorrit , faintly . 
'So you said that day upon the bridge . 
I thought of it much afterwards . 
They had been speaking in low voices more because it was natural to what they said to adopt that tone , than with any care to reserve it from Maggy at her work . 
All of a sudden Maggy stared again , and this time spoke 'I say ! Little Mother ! 'Yes , Maggy . 
'If you an't got no secret of your own to tell him , tell him that about the Princess . 
She had a secret , you know . 
'The Princess had a secret ? said Clennam , in some surprise . 
'What Princess was that , Maggy ? 'Lor ! How you do go and bother a gal of ten , said Maggy , 'catching the poor thing up in that way . 
Whoever said the Princess had a secret ? I never said so . 
And she wouldn't go into the Hospital , and so she died . 
You know , Little Mother tell him that . 
For it was a reg'lar good secret , that was ! cried Maggy , hugging herself . 
Arthur looked at Little Dorrit for help to comprehend this , and was struck by seeing her so timid and red . 
When she answered fervently , she well knew that , she never forgot it , he touched upon his second and more delicate point the suspicion he had formed . 
I have wanted very much to say this to you I have tried for opportunities . 
Don't mind me , who , for the matter of years , might be your father or your uncle . 
Always think of me as quite an old man . 
I know that all your devotion centres in this room , and that nothing to the last will ever tempt you away from the duties you discharge here . 
She was very , very pale , and silently shook her head . 
'It may be , dear Little Dorrit . 
No. No. She shook her head , after each slow repetition of the word , with an air of quiet desolation that he remembered long afterwards . 
The time came when he remembered it well , long afterwards , within those prison walls within that very room . 
'But , if it ever should be , tell me so , my dear child . 
'I press for no confidence now . 
I only ask you to repose unhesitating trust in me . 
'And you have none now ? She shook her head . 
But she was very pale . 
He had a lighted cigar in his hand , and brought with him airs of ale and tobacco smoke . 
'Pancks the gipsy , he observed out of breath , 'fortune telling . 
, and took such a pull at it , with his right eye shut up tight for the purpose , that he underwent a convulsion of shuddering and choking . 
But even in the midst of that paroxysm , he still essayed to repeat his favourite introduction of himself , 'Pa ancks the gi ipsy , fortune telling . 
'I am spending the evening with the rest of 'em , said Pancks . 
I've been taking a part in White sand and grey sand . 
I don't know anything about it . 
I'll take any part in anything . 
It's all the same , if you're loud enough . 
At first Clennam supposed him to be intoxicated . 
for ale , the staple of his excitement was not brewed from malt , or distilled from any grain or berry . 
'How d'ye do , Miss Dorrit ? said Pancks . 
'I thought you wouldn't mind my running round , and looking in for a moment . 
Mr Clennam I heard was here , from Mr Dorrit . 
How are you , Sir ? Clennam thanked him , and said he was glad to see him so gay . 
'I'm in wonderful feather , sir . 
I can't stop a minute , or I shall be missed , and I don't want 'em to miss me . 
'I haven't been here half an hour . 
Eh , Miss Dorrit ? His little black eyes sparkled electrically . 
His very hair seemed to sparkle as he roughened it . 
He was in that highly charged state that one might have expected to draw sparks and snaps from him by presenting a knuckle to any part of his figure . 
'Capital company here , said Pancks . 
'Eh , Miss Dorrit ? She was half afraid of him , and irresolute what to say . 
He laughed , with a nod towards Clennam . 
'Don't mind him , Miss Dorrit . 
We agreed that you shouldn't take on to mind me before people , but we didn't mean Mr Clennam . 
An't you , Mr Clennam ? Eh , Miss Dorrit ? The excitement of this strange creature was fast communicating itself to Clennam . 
Little Dorrit with amazement , saw this , and observed that they exchanged quick looks . 
'I was making a remark , said Pancks , 'but I declare I forget what it was . 
Oh , I know ! Capital company here . 
I've been treating 'em all round . 
Eh , Miss Dorrit ? 'Very generous of you , she returned , noticing another of the quick looks between the two . 
'Not at all , said Pancks . 
I'm coming into my property , that's the fact . 
I can afford to be liberal . 
I think I'll give 'em a treat here . 
Tables laid in the yard . 
Roast beef and plum pudding for every one . 
Quart of double stout a head . 
Pint of wine too , if they like it , and the authorities give permission . 
, that she only moved her lips in answer , without forming any word . 
'And oh , by the bye ! said Pancks , 'you were to live to know what was behind us on that little hand of yours . 
And so you shall , you shall , my darling . 
Eh , Miss Dorrit ? He had suddenly checked himself . 
'But I shall be missed he came back to that 'and I don't want 'em to miss me . 
Mr Clennam , you and I made a bargain . 
I said you should find me stick to it . 
You shall find me stick to it now , sir , if you'll step out of the room a moment . 
Miss Dorrit , I wish you good night . 
Miss Dorrit , I wish you good fortune . 
He rapidly shook her by both hands , and puffed down stairs . 
Arthur followed him with such a hurried step , that he had very nearly tumbled over him on the last landing , and rolled him down into the yard . 
'What is it , for Heaven's sake ! Arthur demanded , when they burst out there both together . 
'Stop a moment , sir . 
'Mr Clennam , Mr Rugg , said Pancks . 
They adjourned to the pump . 
Mr Pancks , instantly putting his head under the spout , requested Mr Rugg to take a good strong turn at the handle . 
Mr Rugg complying to the letter , Mr Pancks came forth snorting and blowing to some purpose , and dried himself on his handkerchief . 
'I am the clearer for that , he gasped to Clennam standing astonished . 
Alighting on his feet , he took Clennam by the button hole , led him behind the pump , and pantingly produced from his pocket a bundle of papers . 
Mr Rugg , also , pantingly produced from his pocket a bundle of papers . 
'Stay ! said Clennam in a whisper . 
'You have made a discovery . 
Mr Pancks answered , with an unction which there is no language to convey , 'We rather think so . 
'Does it implicate any one ? 'How implicate , sir ? 'In any suppression or wrong dealing of any kind ? 'Not a bit of it . 
'Thank God ! said Clennam to himself . 
You are to understand that we are this very day virtually complete . 
We shan't be legally for a day or two . 
Call it at the outside a week . 
We've been at it night and day for I don't know how long . 
Mr Rugg , you know how long ? Never mind . 
You shall tell her , Mr Clennam . 
Not till we give you leave . 
Where's that rough total , Mr Rugg ? Oh ! Here we are ! There sir ! That's what you'll have to break to her . 
In her progress to , and happy arrival at , this resolution , she was possibly influenced , not only by her maternal affections but by three politic considerations . 
In the first interview she accorded to Mr Meagles , she slided herself into the position of disconsolately but gracefully yielding to irresistible pressure . 
, Mrs Merdle occupied a front row . 
In which compensating adjustment of their noses , they were pretty much like Treasury , Bar , and Bishop , and all the rest of them . 
To Mrs Merdle , Mrs Gowan repaired on a visit of self condolence , after having given the gracious consent aforesaid . 
She drove into town for the purpose in a one horse carriage irreverently called at that period of English history , a pill box . 
So the Circumlocution Barnacles , who were the largest job masters in the universe , always pretended to know of no other job but the job immediately in hand . 
To whom entered Mrs Gowan , with her favourite green fan , which softened the light on the spots of bloom . 
'My dear soul , said Mrs Gowan , tapping the back of her friend's hand with this fan after a little indifferent conversation , 'you are my only comfort . 
That affair of Henry's that I told you of , is to take place . 
Now , how does it strike you ? I am dying to know , because you represent and express Society so well . 
Society requires that he should gain by marriage . 
Society requires that he should found a handsome establishment by marriage . 
Society does not see , otherwise , what he has to do with marriage . 
, had wound up the exposition with a shriek . 
Those are of a different kind . 
But we don't live under leaves , and keep cows and sheep and creatures . 
I perfectly exhaust myself sometimes , in pointing out the distinction to Edmund Sparkler . 
'A church mouse ? Mrs Merdle suggested with a smile . 
'I was thinking of the other proverbial church person Job , said Mrs Gowan . 
It would be idle to disguise , consequently , that there is a wide difference between the position of your son and mine . 
I may add , too , that Henry has talent 'Which Edmund certainly has not , said Mrs Merdle , with the greatest suavity . 
and that his talent , combined with disappointment , Mrs Gowan went on , 'has led him into a pursuit which ah dear me ! You know , my dear . 
Such being Henry's different position , the question is what is the most inferior class of marriage to which I can reconcile myself . 
, that she omitted to reply for a while . 
'Sounds mercenary to ask what the gentleman is to get with the lady , said Mrs Merdle 'but Society is perhaps a little mercenary , you know , my dear . 
'From what I can make out , said Mrs Gowan , 'I believe I may say that Henry will be relieved from debt 'Much in debt ? asked Mrs Merdle through her eyeglass . 
'Why tolerably , I should think , said Mrs Gowan . 
'Meaning the usual thing I understand just so , Mrs Merdle observed in a comfortable sort of way . 
You need be at no loss to guess why , my dear . 
Mrs Merdle hastened to spare the feelings of her afflicted friend . 
Say no more ! 'And that , said Mrs Gowan , shaking her despondent head , 'that's all . 
, 'that's all ! On the death of the old people , I suppose there will be more to come but how it may be restricted or locked up , I don't know . 
And as to that , they may live for ever . 
My dear , they are just the kind of people to do it . 
'And that is all , my dear ? said she , heaving a friendly sigh . 
'Well , well ! The fault is not yours . 
You have nothing to reproach yourself with . 
You must exercise the strength of mind for which you are renowned , and make the best of it . 
'The girl's family have made , said Mrs Gowan , 'of course , the most strenuous endeavours to as the lawyers say to have and to hold Henry . 
'Of course they have , my dear , said Mrs Merdle . 
'I have persisted in every possible objection , and have worried myself morning , noon , and night , for means to detach Henry from the connection . 
'No doubt you have , my dear , said Mrs Merdle . 
'And all of no use . 
All has broken down beneath me . 
Now tell me , my love . 
The conference was held at four or five o'clock in the afternoon , when all the region of Harley Street , Cavendish Square , was resonant of carriage wheels and double knocks . 
He presented himself before the two ladies in the course of a dismal stroll through his mansion , which had no apparent object but escape from the presence of the chief butler . 
'I beg your pardon , he said , stopping short in confusion 'I didn't know there was anybody here but the parrot . 
'Eh ? Yes ? said Mr Merdle , turning towards her . 
'What is it ? 'What is it ? repeated Mrs Merdle . 
'It is , I suppose , that you have not heard a word of my complaint . 
'Your complaint , Mrs Merdle ? said Mr Merdle . 
'I didn't know that you were suffering from a complaint . 
What complaint ? 'A complaint of you , said Mrs Merdle . 
'Oh ! A complaint of me , said Mr Merdle . 
'I might as well have stated it to the wall . 
I had far better have stated it to the bird . 
He would at least have screamed . 
'You don't want me to scream , Mrs Merdle , I suppose , said Mr Merdle , taking a chair . 
'Indeed I don't know , retorted Mrs Merdle , 'but that you had better do that , than be so moody and distraught . 
One would at least know that you were sensible of what was going on around you . 
'A man might scream , and yet not be that , Mrs Merdle , said Mr Merdle , heavily . 
'And might be dogged , as you are at present , without screaming , returned Mrs Merdle . 
'Pray , don't be violent , Mr Merdle , said Mrs Merdle . 
'Violent ? said Mr Merdle . 
'You are enough to make me desperate . 
You don't know half of what I do to accommodate Society . 
You don't know anything of the sacrifices I make for it . 
'I know , returned Mrs Merdle , 'that you receive the best in the land . 
I know that you move in the whole Society of the country . 
who sustains you in it , Mr Merdle . 
'Mrs Merdle , retorted that gentleman , wiping his dull red and yellow face , 'I know that as well as you do . 
If you were not an ornament to Society , and if I was not a benefactor to Society , you and I would never have come together . 
When I say a benefactor to it , I mean a person who provides it with all sorts of expensive things to eat and drink and look at . 
'I say , answered Mrs Merdle composedly , 'that you ought to make yourself fit for it by being more degage , and less preoccupied . 
There is a positive vulgarity in carrying your business affairs about with you as you do . 
'How do I carry them about , Mrs Merdle ? asked Mr Merdle . 
'How do you carry them about ? said Mrs Merdle . 
'Look at yourself in the glass . 
'He does me no good , said Mr Merdle . 
Mrs Merdle changed her ground . 
'Besides , said she , 'your digestion is nonsense . 
I don't speak of your digestion . 
I speak of your manner . 
'Mrs Merdle , returned her husband , 'I look to you for that . 
You supply manner , and I supply money . 
'I don't expect you , said Mrs Merdle , reposing easily among her cushions , 'to captivate people . 
I don't want you to take any trouble upon yourself , or to try to be fascinating . 
I simply request you to care about nothing or seem to care about nothing as everybody else does . 
'Do I ever say I care about anything ? asked Mr Merdle . 
'Say ? No ! Nobody would attend to you if you did . 
'Show what ? What do I show ? demanded Mr Merdle hurriedly . 
'I have already told you . 
You show that you carry your business cares an projects about , instead of leaving them in the City , or wherever else they belong to , said Mrs Merdle . 
Seeming would be quite enough I ask no more . 
Whereas you couldn't be more occupied with your day's calculations and combinations than you habitually show yourself to be , if you were a carpenter . 
'A carpenter ! repeated Mr Merdle , checking something like a groan . 
'I shouldn't so much mind being a carpenter , Mrs Merdle . 
'And my complaint is , pursued the lady , disregarding the low remark , 'that it is not the tone of Society , and that you ought to correct it , Mr Merdle . 
If you have any doubt of my judgment , ask even Edmund Sparkler . 
The door of the room had opened , and Mrs Merdle now surveyed the head of her son through her glass . 
'Edmund we want you here . 
, upon this followed up his head with his body , and stood before them . 
To whom , in a few easy words adapted to his capacity , Mrs Merdle stated the question at issue . 
The young gentleman , after anxiously feeling his shirt collar as if it were his pulse and he were hypochondriacal , observed , 'That he had heard it noticed by fellers . 
'Edmund Sparkler has heard it noticed , said Mrs Merdle , with languid triumph . 
'And Edmund Sparkler will tell you , I dare say , said Mrs Merdle , waving her favourite hand towards her husband , 'how he has heard it noticed . 
'I couldn't , said Mr Sparkler , after feeling his pulse as before , 'couldn't undertake to say what led to it 'cause memory desperate loose . 
'What did the brother say ? 'Didn't say a word , ma'am , answered Mr Sparkler . 
'As silent a feller as myself . 
Equally hard up for a remark . 
'Somebody said something , returned Mrs Merdle . 
'Never mind who it was . 
'But tell us what it was . 
Say he carried the Shop about , on his back rather like Jew clothesmen with too much business . 
'Which , said Mrs Merdle , rising , with her floating drapery about her , 'is exactly my complaint . 
Edmund , give me your arm up stairs . 
Mr Merdle , left alone to meditate on a better conformation of himself to Society , looked out of nine windows in succession , and appeared to see nine wastes of space . 
Through all the rooms he wandered , as he always did , like the last person on earth who had any business to approach them . 
At last he met the chief butler , the sight of which splendid retainer always finished him . 
CHAPTER A Shoal of Barnacles Mr Henry Gowan and the dog were established frequenters of the cottage , and the day was fixed for the wedding . 
To have got the whole Barnacle family together would have been impossible for two reasons . 
Firstly , because no building could have held all the members and connections of that illustrious house . 
Thus the Barnacles were all over the world , in every direction despatch boxing the compass . 
to be done and anything to be pocketed , it was perfectly feasible to assemble a good many Barnacles . 
in examining and paying the debts of his future son in law , in the apartment of scales and scoops . 
Mr Gowan treated him in return with his usual ease , and with his usual show of confidence , which was no confidence at all . 
'Upon my word , said Clennam , a little embarrassed , 'I scarcely know how . 
So here I am , a poor devil of an artist . 
Clennam was beginning , 'But on the other hand when Gowan took him up . 
'Yes , yes , I know . 
I have the good fortune of being beloved by a beautiful and charming girl whom I love with all my heart . 
'And of finding a father in law who is a capital fellow and a liberal good old boy . 
'Hang it , no not bitterly , laughed Gowan . 
'My people are not worth that though they are charming fellows , and I have the greatest affection for them . 
Besides , it's pleasant to show them that I can do without them , and that they may all go to the Devil . 
And besides , again , most men are disappointed in life , somehow or other , and influenced by their disappointment . 
But it's a dear good world , and I love it ! 'It lies fair before you now , said Arthur . 
'Fair as this summer river , cried the other , with enthusiasm , 'and by Jove I glow with admiration of it , and with ardour to run a race in it . 
It's the best of old worlds ! And my calling ! The best of old callings , isn't it ? 'Full of interest and ambition , I conceive , said Clennam . 
'And imposition , added Gowan , laughing 'we won't leave out the imposition . 
I hope I may not break down in that but there , my being a disappointed man may show itself . 
I may not be able to face it out gravely enough . 
Between you and me , I think there is some danger of my being just enough soured not to be able to do that . 
'To do what ? asked Clennam . 
To help myself in my turn , as the man before me helps himself in his , and pass the bottle of smoke . 
'And your vocation , Gowan , may really demand this suit and service . 
I confess I should have thought that all Art did . 
'What a good fellow you are , Clennam ! exclaimed the other , stopping to look at him , as if with irrepressible admiration . 
'What a capital fellow ! You have never been disappointed . 
It would have been so cruel if he had meant it , that Clennam firmly resolved to believe he did not mean it . 
, to live in such a rose coloured mist . 
But what I do in my trade , I do to sell . 
What all we fellows do , we do to sell . 
If we didn't want to sell it for the most we can get for it , we shouldn't do it . 
Being work , it has to be done but it's easily enough done . 
All the rest is hocus pocus . 
Now here's one of the advantages , or disadvantages , of knowing a disappointed man . 
Whatever he had heard , and whether it deserved that name or another , it sank into Clennam's mind . 
For he never could forget what he had been and he knew that he had once disliked Gowan for no better reason than that he had come in his way . 
This last week was , in truth , an uneasy interval for the whole house . 
Mrs Tickit , finding no balsam for a wounded mind in Buchan's Domestic Medicine , suffered greatly from low spirits , and from moving recollections of Minnie's infancy . 
But all days come that are to be and the marriage day was to be , and it came and with it came all the Barnacles who were bidden to the feast . 
But there was greater game than this . 
There was Lord Decimus Tite Barnacle himself , in the odour of Circumlocution with the very smell of Despatch Boxes upon him . 
The discovery of this Behoving Machine was the discovery of the political perpetual motion . 
It never wore out , though it was always going round and round in all the State Departments . 
would search for a Precedent and oftentimes crushing the honourable gentleman flat on the spot by telling him there was no Precedent . 
But Precedent and Precipitate were , under all circumstances , the well matched pair of battle horses of this able Circumlocutionist . 
to the country , whether he was to be precipitated into this . 
But Precedent and Precipitate together frightened all objection out of most people . 
This was , when he was asked a Parliamentary question on any one topic , to return an answer on any other . 
It had done immense service , and brought him into high esteem with the Circumlocution Office . 
And there , too , was a sprinkling of less distinguished Parliamentary Barnacles , who had not as yet got anything snug , and were going through their probation to prove their worthiness . 
married the happy pair , and it behoved Lord Decimus Tite Barnacle himself to conduct Mrs Meagles to breakfast . 
The entertainment was not as agreeable and natural as it might have been . 
Mr Meagles , hove down by his good company while he highly appreciated it , was not himself . 
Mrs Gowan was herself , and that did not improve him . 
Then the Barnacles felt that they for their parts would have done with the Meagleses when the present patronising occasion was over and the Meagleses felt the same for their parts . 
came in for any good thing , and could buy a picture , to please to remember the poor painter . 
Gowan himself was touched , and answered Mr Meagles's 'O Gowan , take care of her , take care of her ! with an earnest 'Don't be so broken hearted , sir . 
A miserable blank remained in the house and in the hearts of the father and mother and Clennam . 
Mr Meagles called only one remembrance to his aid , that really did him good . 
'It's very gratifying , Arthur , he said , 'after all , to look back upon . 
'The past ? said Clennam . 
'Yes but I mean the company . 
It had made him much more low and unhappy at the time , but now it really did him good . 
'It's very gratifying , he said , often repeating the remark in the course of the evening . 
Her father was heir at law to a great estate that had long lain unknown of , unclaimed , and accumulating . 
In his tracking out of the claim to its complete establishment , Mr Pancks had shown a sagacity that nothing could baffle , and a patience and secrecy that nothing could tire . 
He then went on to detail . 
How , having that name recorded in his note book , he was first attracted by the name alone . 
How he rather supposed himself to have pursued the idea into its next degree , because there was something uncommon in the quiet little seamstress , which pleased him and provoked his curiosity . 
How he had , thereupon , sworn his landlord , Mr Rugg , to secrecy in a solemn manner , and taken him into Moleing partnership . 
How they had employed John Chivery as their sole clerk and agent , seeing to whom he was devoted . 
And how , until the present hour , when authorities mighty in the Bank and learned in the law declared their successful labours ended , they had confided in no other human being . 
'Pretty well , sir , said the triumphant Pancks . 
'No trifle , though we did it as cheap as it could be done . 
And the outlay was a difficulty , let me tell you . 
'A difficulty ! repeated Clennam . 
'But the difficulties you have so wonderfully conquered in the whole business ! shaking his hand again . 
'I'll tell you how I did it , said the delighted Pancks , putting his hair into a condition as elevated as himself . 
'First , I spent all I had of my own . 
'I am sorry for it , said Clennam 'not that it matters now , though . 
Then , what did you do ? 'Then , answered Pancks , 'I borrowed a sum of my proprietor . 
'Of Mr Casby ? said Clennam . 
'He's a fine old fellow . 
'Noble old boy an't he ? said Mr Pancks , entering on a series of the dryest snorts . 
Benevolent old boy ! Twenty per cent . 
I engaged to pay him , sir . 
But we never do business for less at our shop . 
Arthur felt an awkward consciousness of having , in his exultant condition , been a little premature . 
I proposed to him to lend me the money on my note . 
Which he did , at twenty sticking the twenty on in a business like way , and putting it into the note , to look like a part of the principal . 
If I had broken down after that , I should have been his grubber for the next seven years at half wages and double grind . 
But he's a perfect Patriarch and it would do a man good to serve him on such terms on any terms . 
Arthur for his life could not have said with confidence whether Pancks really thought so or not . 
'When that was gone , sir , resumed Pancks , 'and it did go , though I dribbled it out like so much blood , I had taken Mr Rugg into the secret . 
He lent it at ten , and thought that pretty high . 
But Mr Rugg's a red haired man , sir , and gets his hair cut . 
And as to the crown of his hat , it's high . 
And as to the brim of his hat , it's narrow . 
And there's no more benevolence bubbling out of him , than out of a ninepin . 
'Your own recompense for all this , Mr Pancks , said Clennam , 'ought to be a large one . 
'I don't mistrust getting it , sir , said Pancks . 
'I have made no bargain . 
I owed you one on that score now I have paid it . 
Money out of pocket made good , time fairly allowed for , and Mr Rugg's bill settled , a thousand pounds would be a fortune to me . 
That matter I place in your hands . 
I authorize you now to break all this to the family in any way you think best . 
Miss Amy Dorrit will be with Mrs Finching this morning . 
The sooner done the better . 
Can't be done too soon . 
This conversation took place in Clennam's bed room , while he was yet in bed . 
Clennam , of course , resolved to go direct to Mr Casby's . 
When he returned to the street , and had knocked at the bright brass knocker , he was informed that she had come , and was shown up stairs to Flora's breakfast room . 
Little Dorrit was not there herself , but Flora was , and testified the greatest amazement at seeing him . 
'I ought to make an apology , said Arthur , 'for so early and abrupt a visit but you will excuse it when I tell you the cause . 
She was making the tea when Arthur came in , and now hastily finished that operation . 
Arthur then told her , in the fewest words , that it was their little friend he came to see and what he had to announce to their little friend . 
At which astounding intelligence , Flora clasped her hands , fell into a tremble , and shed tears of sympathy and pleasure , like the good natured creature she really was . 
Arthur nodded his free permission , since Flora shut out all verbal communication . 
Flora nodded in return to thank him , and hurried out of the room . 
Little Dorrit's step was already on the stairs , and in another moment she was at the door . 
That is , no misfortune has happened . 
I have come to tell you something , but it is a piece of great good fortune . 
'Good fortune ? 'Wonderful fortune ! They stood in a window , and her eyes , full of light , were fixed upon his face . 
He put an arm about her , seeing her likely to sink down . 
Her lips seemed to repeat 'Wonderful fortune ? He repeated it again , aloud . 
'Dear Little Dorrit ! Your father . 
The ice of the pale face broke at the word , and little lights and shoots of expression passed all over it . 
They were all expressions of pain . 
Her breath was faint and hurried . 
He would have clasped the little figure closer , but he saw that the eyes appealed to him not to be moved . 
'Your father can be free within this week . 
He does not know it we must go to him from here , to tell him of it . 
Your father will be free within a few days . 
Your father will be free within a few hours . 
Remember we must go to him from here , to tell him of it ! That brought her back . 
Her eyes were closing , but they opened again . 
'This is not all the good fortune . 
This is not all the wonderful good fortune , my dear Little Dorrit . 
Shall I tell you more ? Her lips shaped 'Yes . 
'Your father will be no beggar when he is free . 
He will want for nothing . 
He held her in his arm , and , after a pause , bent down his ear to listen . 
'Did you ask me to go on ? 'Yes . 
'He will be a rich man . 
He is a rich man . 
A great sum of money is waiting to be paid over to him as his inheritance you are all henceforth very wealthy . 
'Come with me to my dear father . 
Pray come and tell my dear father ! were the first words she said . 
Her father , her father . 
She spoke of nothing but him , thought of nothing but him . 
Kneeling down and pouring out her thankfulness with uplifted hands , her thanks were for her father . 
Flora's tenderness was quite overcome by this , and she launched out among the cups and saucers into a wonderful flow of tears and speech . 
Little Dorrit thanked her , and embraced her , over and over again and finally came out of the house with Clennam , and took coach for the Marshalsea . 
It was a strangely unreal ride through the old squalid streets , with a sensation of being raised out of them into an airy world of wealth and grandeur . 
When Arthur told her that she would soon ride in her own carriage through very different scenes , when all the familiar experiences would have vanished away , she looked frightened . 
When Mr Chivery , who was on duty , admitted them into the Lodge , he saw something in their faces which filled him with astonishment . 
He stood looking after them , when they hurried into the prison , as though he perceived that they had come back accompanied by a ghost a piece . 
Within a few minutes , it was heard in the remotest room in the College . 
Little Dorrit opened the door from without , and they both entered . 
He was sitting in his old grey gown and his old black cap , in the sunlight by the window , reading his newspaper . 
As they came in , the same unwonted look in both of them which had already caught attention in the yard below , struck him . 
'Father ! I have been made so happy this morning ! 'You have been made so happy , my dear ? 'By Mr Clennam , father . 
Her agitation was exceedingly great , and the tears rolled down her face . 
He put his hand suddenly to his heart , and looked at Clennam . 
'Compose yourself , sir , said Clennam , 'and take a little time to think . 
To think of the brightest and most fortunate accidents of life . 
We have all heard of great surprises of joy . 
They are not at an end , sir . 
They are rare , but not at an end . 
'Mr Clennam ? Not at an end ? Not at an end for He touched himself upon the breast , instead of saying 'me . 
Tell me , Mr Dorrit , what surprise would be the most unlooked for and the most acceptable to you . 
Do not be afraid to imagine it , or to say what it would be . 
He looked steadfastly at Clennam , and , so looking at him , seemed to change into a very old haggard man . 
The sun was bright upon the wall beyond the window , and on the spikes at top . 
He slowly stretched out the hand that had been upon his heart , and pointed at the wall . 
'It is down , said Clennam . 
'Gone ! He remained in the same attitude , looking steadfastly at him . 
'And in its place , said Clennam , slowly and distinctly , 'are the means to possess and enjoy the utmost that they have so long shut out . 
Mr Dorrit , there is not the smallest doubt that within a few days you will be free , and highly prosperous . 
'I shall see him as I never saw him yet . 
I shall see my dear love , with the dark cloud cleared away . 
I shall see him , as my poor mother saw him long ago . 
Neither did he say one word . 
His steadfast look was now divided between her and Clennam , and he began to shake as if he were very cold . 
Explaining to Little Dorrit that he would run to the coffee house for a bottle of wine , Arthur fetched it with all the haste he could use . 
On coming back with the wine in his hand , he found that she had placed her father in his easy chair , and had loosened his shirt and neckcloth . 
They filled a tumbler with wine , and held it to his lips . 
When he had swallowed a little , he took the glass himself and emptied it . 
Soon after that , he leaned back in his chair and cried , with his handkerchief before his face . 
After this had lasted a while Clennam thought it a good season for diverting his attention from the main surprise , by relating its details . 
Slowly , therefore , and in a quiet tone of voice , he explained them as best he could , and enlarged on the nature of Pancks's service . 
'He shall be ha he shall be handsomely recompensed , sir , said the Father , starting up and moving hurriedly about the room . 
'Assure yourself , Mr Clennam , that everybody concerned shall be ha shall be nobly rewarded . 
No one , my dear sir , shall say that he has an unsatisfied claim against me . 
I shall repay the hum the advances I have had from you , sir , with peculiar pleasure . 
I beg to be informed at your earliest convenience , what advances you have made my son . 
He had no purpose in going about the room , but he was not still a moment . 
'Everybody , he said , 'shall be remembered . 
I will not go away from here in anybody's debt . 
All the people who have been ha well behaved towards myself and my family , shall be rewarded . 
Young John shall be rewarded . 
I particularly wish , and intend , to act munificently , Mr Clennam . 
'Thank you , sir , thank you . 
I accept with readiness , at the present moment , what I could not an hour ago have conscientiously taken . 
I am obliged to you for the temporary accommodation . 
Exceedingly temporary , but well timed well timed . 
His hand had closed upon the money , and he carried it about with him . 
A mere verbal statement of the gross amount is all I shall ha all I shall require . 
His eye fell upon his daughter at this point , and he stopped for a moment to kiss her , and to pat her head . 
'It will be necessary to find a milliner , my love , and to make a speedy and complete change in your very plain dress . 
Something must be done with Maggy too , who at present is ha barely respectable , barely respectable . 
And your sister , Amy , and your brother . 
And my brother , your uncle poor soul , I trust this will rouse him messengers must be despatched to fetch them . 
They must be informed of this . 
We must break it to them cautiously , but they must be informed directly . 
We owe it as a duty to them and to ourselves , from this moment , not to let them hum not to let them do anything . 
This was the first intimation he had ever given , that he was privy to the fact that they did something for a livelihood . 
He was still jogging about the room , with the purse clutched in his hand , when a great cheering arose in the yard . 
'The news has spread already , said Clennam , looking down from the window . 
'Will you show yourself to them , Mr Dorrit ? They are very earnest , and they evidently wish it . 
But if it must be done as it is , it ha it must be done . 
Fasten the collar of my shirt , my dear . 
Mr Clennam , would you oblige me hum with a blue neckcloth you will find in that drawer at your elbow . 
Button my coat across at the chest , my love . 
It looks ha it looks broader , buttoned . 
With his trembling hand he pushed his grey hair up , and then , taking Clennam and his daughter for supporters , appeared at the window leaning on an arm of each . 
The Collegians cheered him very heartily , and he kissed his hand to them with great urbanity and protection . 
When he withdrew into the room again , he said 'Poor creatures ! in a tone of much pity for their miserable condition . 
Little Dorrit was deeply anxious that he should lie down to compose himself . 
He needed no second entreaty and she prepared her father's bed , and begged him to lie down . 
But gradually he began to droop and tire , and at last stretched himself upon the bed . 
, when he unexpectedly sat up and said 'Mr Clennam , I beg your pardon . 
At this he shed tears again . 
'It is but a few hours , sir , Clennam cheerfully urged upon him . 
'A few hours , sir , he returned in a sudden passion . 
Clennam had abundant occupation for his thoughts , as he sat in the quiet room watching the father on his bed , and the daughter fanning his face . 
Little Dorrit had been thinking too . 
'Mr Clennam , will he pay all his debts before he leaves here ? 'No doubt . 
'All the debts for which he had been imprisoned here , all my life and longer ? 'No doubt . 
There was something of uncertainty and remonstrance in her look something that was not all satisfaction . 
He wondered to detect it , and said 'You are glad that he should do so ? 'Are you ? asked Little Dorrit , wistfully . 
'Am I ? Most heartily glad ! 'Then I know I ought to be . 
It seems to me hard that he should pay in life and money both . 
'My dear child Clennam was beginning . 
'Yes , I know I am wrong , she pleaded timidly , 'don't think any worse of me it has grown up with me here . 
The prison , which could spoil so many things , had tainted Little Dorrit's mind no more than this . 
He thought this , and forebore to say another word . 
With the thought , her purity and goodness came before him in their brightest light . 
The little spot made them the more beautiful . 
Clennam rose softly , opened and closed the door without a sound , and passed from the prison , carrying the quiet with him into the turbulent streets . 
The interval had been short , but he had greatly complained of its length , and had been imperious with Mr Rugg touching the delay . 
He had been high with Mr Rugg , and had threatened to employ some one else . 
He had requested Mr Rugg not to presume upon the place in which he found him , but to do his duty , sir , and to do it with promptitude . 
He had told Mr Rugg that he knew what lawyers and agents were , and that he would not submit to imposition . 
Towards the Marshal , who was a Marshal of many years' standing , and with whom he had never had any previous difference , Mr Dorrit comported himself with severity . 
That officer , on personally tendering his congratulations , offered the free use of two rooms in his house for Mr Dorrit's occupation until his departure . 
A great deal of business was transacted in this short period . 
per annum , in which their client believed himself to be indebted to Mr Clennam . 
had not been asked of him , and to inform him that it would not have been accepted if it had been openly proffered in his name . 
With which they requested a stamped receipt , and remained his obedient servants . 
The Collegians were not envious . 
Besides that they had a personal and traditional regard for a Collegian of so many years' standing , the event was creditable to the College , and made it famous in the newspapers . 
They took it very well . 
A few were low at the thought of being left behind , and being left poor but even these did not grudge the family their brilliant reverse . 
There might have been much more envy in politer places . 
It seems probable that mediocrity of fortune would have been disposed to be less magnanimous than the Collegians , who lived from hand to mouth from the pawnbroker's hand to the day's dinner . 
and to which he returned a gracious answer . 
, but his son was so good as to take the head of the principal table , and to be very free and engaging . 
He himself went about among the company , and took notice of individuals , and saw that the viands were of the quality he had ordered , and that all were served . 
On the whole , he was like a baron of the olden time in a rare good humour . 
But all these occurrences preceded the final day . 
And now the day arrived when he and his family were to leave the prison for ever , and when the stones of its much trodden pavement were to know them no more . 
Noon was the hour appointed for the departure . 
As it approached , there was not a Collegian within doors , nor a turnkey absent . 
The latter class of gentlemen appeared in their Sunday clothes , and the greater part of the Collegians were brightened up as much as circumstances allowed . 
Two or three flags were even displayed , and the children put on odds and ends of ribbon . 
Mr Dorrit himself , at this trying time , preserved a serious but graceful dignity . 
Much of his great attention was given to his brother , as to whose bearing on the great occasion he felt anxious . 
'My dear Frederick , said he , 'if you will give me your arm we will pass among our friends together . 
I think it is right that we should go out arm in arm , my dear Frederick . 
'Yes , yes , yes , yes . 
, a little Polish into your usual demeanour 'William , William , said the other , shaking his head , 'it's for you to do all that . 
All forgotten , forgotten ! 'But , my dear fellow , returned William , 'for that very reason , if for no other , you must positively try to rouse yourself . 
What you have forgotten you must now begin to recall , my dear Frederick . 
Your position 'Eh ? said Frederick . 
'Your position , my dear Frederick . 
'Your position , my dear Frederick , is now a fine one . 
Your position , as my brother , is a very fine one . 
And I know that it belongs to your conscientious nature to try to become worthy of it , my dear Frederick , and to try to adorn it . 
To be no discredit to it , but to adorn it . 
'William , said the other weakly , and with a sigh , 'I will do anything you wish , my brother , provided it lies in my power . 
Pray be so kind as to recollect what a limited power mine is . 
What would you wish me to do to day , brother ? Say what it is , only say what it is . 
'My dearest Frederick , nothing . 
It is not worth troubling so good a heart as yours with . 
'Pray trouble it , returned the other . 
'It finds it no trouble , William , to do anything it can for you . 
'Oh ! my dear Frederick , how can I answer you ? I can only say what , in leaving these good people , I think myself . 
'That's it ! cried his brother . 
'I find that I think , my dear Frederick , and with mixed emotions in which a softened compassion predominates , What will they do without me ! 'True , returned his brother . 
'Yes , yes , yes , yes . 
In the yard , were the Collegians and turnkeys . 
In the yard , were Mr Pancks and Mr Rugg , come to see the last touch given to their work . 
In the yard , was Young John making a new epitaph for himself , on the occasion of his dying of a broken heart . 
Through these spectators the little procession , headed by the two brothers , moved slowly to the gate . 
Mr Dorrit , yielding to the vast speculation how the poor creatures were to get on without him , was great , and sad , but not absorbed . 
Before they had ceased to ring in the echoes of the prison walls , the family had got into their carriage , and the attendant had the steps in his hand . 
Then , and not before , 'Good Gracious ! cried Miss Fanny all at once , 'Where's Amy ! Her father had thought she was with her sister . 
Her sister had thought she was 'somewhere or other . 
They had all trusted to finding her , as they had always done , quietly in the right place at the right moment . 
This going away was perhaps the very first action of their joint lives that they had got through without her . 
And by that Mr Clennam too ! The offence was proved , as she delivered the indictment . 
Clennam appeared at the carriage door , bearing the little insensible figure in his arms . 
'She has been forgotten , he said , in a tone of pity not free from reproach . 
and found the door open , and that she had fainted on the floor , dear child . 
She appeared to have gone to change her dress , and to have sunk down overpowered . 
It may have been the cheering , or it may have happened sooner . 
Take care of this poor cold hand , Miss Dorrit . 
'Thank you , sir , returned Miss Dorrit , bursting into tears . 
'I believe I know what to do , if you will give me leave . 
BOOK THE SECOND RICHES CHAPTER Fellow Travellers In the autumn of the year , Darkness and Night were creeping up to the highest ridges of the Alps . 
It was vintage time in the valleys on the Swiss side of the Pass of the Great Saint Bernard , and along the banks of the Lake of Geneva . 
The air there was charged with the scent of gathered grapes . 
Grapes , split and crushed under foot , lay about everywhere . 
Mountain peaks of great celebrity in the valleys , whence no trace of their existence was visible sometimes for months together , had been since morning plain and near in the blue sky . 
Seen from these solitudes , and from the Pass of the Great Saint Bernard , which was one of them , the ascending Night came up the mountain like a rising water . 
Darkness , outstripping some visitors on mules , had risen thus to the rough convent walls , when those travellers were yet climbing the mountain . 
No trees were to be seen , nor any vegetable growth save a poor brown scrubby moss , freezing in the chinks of rock . 
Blackened skeleton arms of wood by the wayside pointed upward to the convent as if the ghosts of former travellers overwhelmed by the snow haunted the scene of their distress . 
There was no speaking among the string of riders . 
At length , a light on the summit of the rocky staircase gleamed through the snow and mist . 
Other mules had arrived not long before , some with peasant riders and some with goods , and had trodden the snow about the door into a pool of mud . 
Up here in the clouds , everything was seen through cloud , and seemed dissolving into cloud . 
The living travellers thought little or nothing of the dead just then . 
They thought much more of alighting at the convent door , and warming themselves at the convent fire . 
Disengaged from the turmoil , which was already calming down as the crowd of mules began to be bestowed in the stable , they hurried shivering up the steps and into the building . 
There was a smell within , coming up from the floor , of tethered beasts , like the smell of a menagerie of wild animals . 
There were gloomy vaulted sleeping rooms within , intensely cold , but clean and hospitably prepared for guests . 
Finally , there was a parlour for guests to sit in and sup in , where a table was already laid , and where a blazing fire shone red and high . 
In this room , after having had their quarters for the night allotted to them by two young Fathers , the travellers presently drew round the hearth . 
It consisted of an elderly lady , two grey haired gentlemen , two young ladies , and their brother . 
, by a courier , two footmen , and two waiting maids which strong body of inconvenience was accommodated elsewhere under the same roof . 
The party that had overtaken them , and followed in their train , consisted of only three members one lady and two gentlemen . 
These three groups sat round the fire eyeing each other drily , and waiting for supper . 
Only one among them , one of the gentlemen belonging to the party of three , made advances towards conversation . 
That he feared one of the young ladies was not a strong or accustomed traveller , and had been over fatigued two or three hours ago . 
That he had observed , from his station in the rear , that she sat her mule as if she were exhausted . 
That he had , twice or thrice afterwards , done himself the honour of inquiring of one of the guides , when he fell behind , how the lady did . 
That he had been enchanted to learn that she had recovered her spirits , and that it had been but a passing discomfort . 
he might be permitted to express his hope that she was now none the worse , and that she would not regret having made the journey . 
'My daughter , I am obliged to you , sir , returned the Chief , 'is quite restored , and has been greatly interested . 
'New to mountains , perhaps ? said the insinuating traveller . 
'New to ha to mountains , said the Chief . 
'But you are familiar with them , sir ? the insinuating traveller assumed . 
'I am hum tolerably familiar . 
Not of late years , replied the Chief , with a flourish of his hand . 
He hoped she was not incommoded by the fatigues of the day . 
'Incommoded , certainly , returned the young lady , 'but not tired . 
The insinuating traveller complimented her on the justice of the distinction . 
It was what he had meant to say . 
Every lady must doubtless be incommoded by having to do with that proverbially unaccommodating animal , the mule . 
'We have had , of course , said the young lady , who was rather reserved and haughty , 'to leave the carriages and fourgon at Martigny . 
And the impossibility of bringing anything that one wants to this inaccessible place , and the necessity of leaving every comfort behind , is not convenient . 
'A savage place indeed , said the insinuating traveller . 
'But , like other inconvenient places , she observed , 'it must be seen . 
As a place much spoken of , it is necessary to see it . 
'O ! I have not the least objection to seeing it , I assure you , Mrs General , returned the other , carelessly . 
'You , madam , said the insinuating traveller , 'have visited this spot before ? 'Yes , returned Mrs General . 
'I have been here before . 
Let me commend you , my dear , to the former young lady , 'to shade your face from the hot wood , after exposure to the mountain air and snow . 
He was dressed in the very fullest and completest travelling trim . 
The world seemed hardly large enough to yield him an amount of travel proportionate to his equipment . 
'These fellows are an immense time with supper , he drawled . 
'I wonder what they'll give us ! Has anybody any idea ? 'Not roast man , I believe , replied the voice of the second gentleman of the party of three . 
What d'ye mean ? he inquired . 
'That , as you are not to be served for the general supper , perhaps you will do us the favour of not cooking yourself at the general fire , returned the other . 
'I think , said the gentleman in a subdued tone , 'I had best carry her straight to her room . 
'Pray , let me call my maid , cried the taller of the young ladies . 
'Pray , let me put this water to her lips , said the shorter , who had not spoken yet . 
Each doing what she suggested , there was no want of assistance . 
, there was a prospect of too much assistance . 
While the subject of it was breathing injury in a corner , the Chief loftily addressed this gentleman . 
Your friend is a little impatient , sir . 
'It may be so , sir , returned the other . 
'You are in no danger , sir , of hearing any such thing from me . 
In remarking that your friend has shown impatience , I say no such thing . 
Which , in principle , I ha for all are hum equal on these occasions I consider right . 
'Good , was the reply . 
'And there it ends ! I am your son's obedient servant . 
I beg your son to receive the assurance of my profound consideration . 
And now , sir , I may admit , freely admit , that my friend is sometimes of a sarcastic temper . 
'The lady is your friend's wife , sir ? 'The lady is my friend's wife , sir . 
'Sir , she is peerless . 
They are still in the first year of their marriage . 
They are still partly on a marriage , and partly on an artistic , tour . 
'Your friend is an artist , sir ? The gentleman replied by kissing the fingers of his right hand , and wafting the kiss the length of his arm towards Heaven . 
As who should say , I devote him to the celestial Powers as an immortal artist ! 'But he is a man of family , he added . 
'His connections are of the best . 
He is more than an artist he is highly connected . 
Sparks that have been struck out during our intercourse have shown me this . 
'Well ! I hope , said the lofty gentleman , with the air of finally disposing of the subject , 'that the lady's indisposition may be only temporary . 
'Sir , I hope so . 
'Mere fatigue , I dare say . 
'Not altogether mere fatigue , sir , for her mule stumbled to day , and she fell from the saddle . 
She fell lightly , and was up again without assistance , and rode from us laughing but she complained towards evening of a slight bruise in the side . 
She spoke of it more than once , as we followed your party up the mountain . 
The head of the large retinue , who was gracious but not familiar , appeared by this time to think that he had condescended more than enough . 
He said no more , and there was silence for some quarter of an hour until supper appeared . 
to take the head of the table . 
It was like the supper of an ordinary Swiss hotel , and good red wine grown by the convent in more genial air was not wanting . 
The artist traveller calmly came and took his place at table when the rest sat down , with no apparent sense upon him of his late skirmish with the completely dressed traveller . 
'Pray , he inquired of the host , over his soup , 'has your convent many of its famous dogs now ? 'Monsieur , it has three . 
'I saw three in the gallery below . 
Doubtless the three in question . 
'And I think , said the artist traveller , 'I have seen one of them before . 
He was a dog sufficiently well known . 
had gone down with one of the order to solicit aid for the convent . 
'Which is done in its regular season of the year , I think ? Monsieur was right . 
'And never without a dog . 
The dog is very important . 
The dog was very important . 
People were justly interested in the dog . 
As one of the dogs celebrated everywhere , Ma'amselle would observe . 
Ma'amselle was a little slow to observe it , as though she were not yet well accustomed to the French tongue . 
Mrs General , however , observed it for her . 
'Ask him if he has saved many lives ? said , in his native English , the young man who had been put out of countenance . 
The host needed no translation of the question . 
He promptly replied in French , 'No . 
'Why not ? the same gentleman asked . 
'Pardon , returned the host composedly , 'give him the opportunity and he will do it without doubt . 
, wiping some drops of wine from his moustache with a piece of bread , joined the conversation . 
'It is becoming late in the year , my Father , said he , 'for tourist travellers , is it not ? 'Yes , it is late . 
Yet two or three weeks , at most , and we shall be left to the winter snows . 
'And then , said the insinuating traveller , 'for the scratching dogs and the buried children , according to the pictures ! 'Pardon , said the host , not quite understanding the allusion . 
'How , then the scratching dogs and the buried children according to the pictures ? The artist traveller struck in again before an answer could be given . 
'So it is , I believe . 
Their young families , I am told , they usually leave at home . 
But it's a grand idea ! cried the artist traveller , unexpectedly rising into a tone of enthusiasm . 
It's the finest idea in the world , and brings tears into a man's eyes , by Jupiter ! He then went on eating his veal with great composure . 
After finishing his veal in the midst of silence , the speaker again addressed his friend . 
He weightily communicated his opinion to their host , that his life must be a very dreary life here in the winter . 
The host allowed to Monsieur that it was a little monotonous . 
The air was difficult to breathe for a length of time consecutively . 
The cold was very severe . 
One needed youth and strength to bear it . 
However , having them and the blessing of Heaven Yes , that was very good . 
'But the confinement , said the grey haired gentleman . 
There were many days , even in bad weather , when it was possible to walk about outside . 
It was the custom to beat a little track , and take exercise there . 
'But the space , urged the grey haired gentleman . 
Monsieur would recall to himself that there were the refuges to visit , and that tracks had to be made to them also . 
Monsieur still urged , on the other hand , that the space was so ha hum so very contracted . 
More than that , it was always the same , always the same . 
With a deprecating smile , the host gently raised and gently lowered his shoulders . 
That was true , he remarked , but permit him to say that almost all objects had their various points of view . 
Monsieur and he did not see this poor life of his from the same point of view . 
Monsieur was not used to confinement . 
'I ha yes , very true , said the grey haired gentleman . 
He seemed to receive quite a shock from the force of the argument . 
Monsieur , as an English traveller , surrounded by all means of travelling pleasantly doubtless possessing fortune , carriages , and servants 'Perfectly , perfectly . 
Without doubt , said the gentleman . 
Monsieur could not realise , perhaps , how the mind accommodated itself in such things to the force of necessity . 
'It is true , said Monsieur . 
'We will ha not pursue the subject . 
You are hum quite accurate , I have no doubt . 
We will say no more . 
The supper having come to a close , he drew his chair away as he spoke , and moved back to his former place by the fire . 
The host , when they rose from the table , bowed to all present , wished them good night , and withdrew . 
to what had been said of the absent lady , glided out . 
From these she obtained a lamp , and a direction to the lady's room . 
It was up the great staircase on the story above . 
Here and there , the bare white walls were broken by an iron grate , and she thought as she went along that the place was something like a prison . 
The arched door of the lady's room , or cell , was not quite shut . 
After knocking at it two or three times without receiving an answer , she pushed it gently open , and looked in . 
A dull light placed in the deep recess of the window , made little impression on the arched room . 
Her visitor , standing quite still , looked at her attentively . 
'She is very pretty , she said to herself . 
'I never saw so beautiful a face . 
O how unlike me ! It was a curious thing to say , but it had some hidden meaning , for it filled her eyes with tears . 
'I know I must be right . 
I know he spoke of her that evening . 
'I like to look at her , she breathed to herself . 
'I like to see what has affected him so much . 
She had not withdrawn her hand , when the sleeper opened her eyes and started . 
I am only one of the travellers from down stairs . 
I came to ask if you were better , and if I could do anything for you . 
'I think you have already been so kind as to send your servants to my assistance ? 'No , not I that was my sister . 
Are you better ? 'Much better . 
It is only a slight bruise , and has been well looked to , and is almost easy now . 
It made me giddy and faint in a moment . 
It had hurt me before but at last it overpowered me all at once . 
I am not delicate , if I look so . 
She quickly moved one of the two rough chairs to the bedside , and sat down . 
'You have so much the air of a kind nurse , said the lady , smiling on her , 'that you seem as if you had come to me from home . 
'I am very glad of it . 
'I was dreaming of home when I woke just now . 
Of my old home , I mean , before I was married . 
'And before you were so far away from it . 
'I have been much farther away from it than this but then I took the best part of it with me , and missed nothing . 
I felt solitary as I dropped asleep here , and , missing it a little , wandered back to it . 
There was a sorrowfully affectionate and regretful sound in her voice , which made her visitor refrain from looking at her for the moment . 
'Looking for me ? 'I believe I have a little note here , which I was to give to you whenever I found you . 
Unless I greatly mistake , it is addressed to you ? Is it not ? The lady took it , and said yes , and read it . 
Her visitor watched her as she did so . 
She flushed a little as she put her lips to her visitor's cheek , and pressed her hand . 
'The dear young friend to whom he presents me , may be a comfort to me at some time , he says . 
She is truly a comfort to me the first time I see her . 
'Perhaps you don't , said the visitor , hesitating 'perhaps you don't know my story ? Perhaps he never told you my story ? 'No . 
'Oh no , why should he ! I have scarcely the right to tell it myself at present , because I have been entreated not to do so . 
There is not much in it , but it might account to you for my asking you not to say anything about the letter here . 
You saw my family with me , perhaps ? Some of them I only say this to you are a little proud , a little prejudiced . 
'You shall take it back again , said the other 'and then my husband is sure not to see it . 
He might see it and speak of it , otherwise , by some accident . 
Will you put it in your bosom again , to be certain ? She did so with great care . 
Her small , slight hand was still upon the letter , when they heard some one in the gallery outside . 
, and tell him if you were well and happy . 
I had better say you were well and happy . 
'Yes , yes , yes ! Say I was very well and very happy . 
And that I thanked him affectionately , and would never forget him . 
'I shall see you in the morning . 
After that we are sure to meet again before very long . 
Good night ! 'Good night . 
Thank you , thank you . 
Good night , my dear ! Both of them were hurried and fluttered as they exchanged this parting , and as the visitor came out of the door . 
When he heard the step behind him , he turned round for he was walking away in the dark . 
His politeness , which was extreme , would not allow of the young lady's lighting herself down stairs , or going down alone . 
He took her lamp , held it so as to throw the best light on the stone steps , and followed her all the way to the supper room . 
She went down , not easily hiding how much she was inclined to shrink and tremble for the appearance of this traveller was particularly disagreeable to her . 
He followed her down with his smiling politeness , followed her in , and resumed his seat in the best place in the hearth . 
The tired company had broken up , and all the rest were gone to bed except the young lady's father , who dozed in his chair by the fire . 
The traveller had been at the pains of going a long way up stairs to his sleeping room to fetch his pocket flask of brandy . 
He told them so , as he poured its contents into what was left of the wine , and drank with a new relish . 
'May I ask , sir , if you are on your way to Italy ? The grey haired gentleman had roused himself , and was preparing to withdraw . 
He answered in the affirmative . 
'I also ! said the traveller . 
'I shall hope to have the honour of offering my compliments in fairer scenes , and under softer circumstances , than on this dismal mountain . 
The gentleman bowed , distantly enough , and said he was obliged to him . 
To your health , sir ! 'Sir , I thank you . 
'To the health of your distinguished family of the fair ladies , your daughters ! 'Sir , I thank you again , I wish you good night . 
My dear , are our ha our people in attendance ? 'They are close by , father . 
'Permit me ! said the traveller , rising and holding the door open , as the gentleman crossed the room towards it with his arm drawn through his daughter's . 
'Humph ! said the insinuating traveller , whose manner shrunk , and whose voice dropped when he was left alone . 
'If they all go to bed , why I must go . 
They are in a devil of a hurry . 
One would think the night would be long enough , in this freezing silence and solitude , if one went to bed two hours hence . 
Taking it in his hand , he read these entries . 
William Dorrit , Esquire Frederick Dorrit , Esquire Edward Dorrit , Esquire Miss Dorrit Miss Amy Dorrit Mrs General and Suite . 
Mr and Mrs Henry Gowan . 
To which he added , in a small complicated hand , ending with a long lean flourish , not unlike a lasso thrown at all the rest of the names Blandois . 
And then , with his nose coming down over his moustache and his moustache going up and under his nose , repaired to his allotted cell . 
CHAPTER Mrs General It is indispensable to present the accomplished lady who was of sufficient importance in the suite of the Dorrit Family to have a line to herself in the Travellers' Book . 
Mrs General was the daughter of a clerical dignitary in a cathedral town , where she had led the fashion until she was as near forty five as a single lady can be . 
His proposal of marriage being accepted by the lady , the commissary took his seat behind the proprieties with great decorum , and Mrs General drove until the commissary died . 
In the course of their united journey , they ran over several people who came in the way of the proprieties but always in a high style and with composure . 
, Mrs General began to inquire what quantity of dust and ashes was deposited at the bankers' . 
In this state of affairs it occurred to Mrs General , that she might 'form the mind , and eke the manners of some young lady of distinction . 
, though he had never had the honour and moral gratification of setting eyes on Mrs General in all his life . 
An interval of some duration elapsed , in which there was no bid for Mrs General . 
to comport herself as if she were much more sought than seeking , the widower pursued Mrs General until he prevailed upon her to form his daughter's mind and manners . 
When her charge was at length formed , the marriage , not only of the young lady , but likewise of her father , the widower , was resolved on . 
Mr Dorrit's bankers , as bankers of the county widower , instantly said , 'Mrs General . 
I have never entered on it with my friends here and I cannot overcome the delicacy , Mr Dorrit , with which I have always regarded it . 
I am not , as I hope you are aware , a governess 'O dear no ! said Mr Dorrit . 
'Pray , madam , do not imagine for a moment that I think so . 
He really blushed to be suspected of it . 
Mrs General gravely inclined her head . 
Neither do I know how , or where , to find a case parallel to my own . 
could the subject be approached . 
Mr Dorrit bowed his acknowledgements . 
'Permit me to add , said Mrs General , 'that beyond this , I can never resume the topic . 
Also that I can accept no second or inferior position . 
If the honour were proposed to me of becoming known to Mr Dorrit's family I think two daughters were mentioned ? 'Two daughters . 
'I could only accept it on terms of perfect equality , as a companion , protector , Mentor , and friend . 
Mr Dorrit , in spite of his sense of his importance , felt as if it would be quite a kindness in her to accept it on any conditions . 
He almost said as much . 
'I think , repeated Mrs General , 'two daughters were mentioned ? 'Two daughters , said Mr Dorrit again . 
, which my friends here have been accustomed to make to my bankers' . 
Mrs General conceded that high privilege , and here she was . 
She might have been taken had been taken to the top of the Alps and the bottom of Herculaneum , without disarranging a fold in her dress , or displacing a pin . 
If her eyes had no expression , it was probably because they had nothing to express . 
If she had few wrinkles , it was because her mind had never traced its name or any other inscription on her face . 
A cool , waxy , blown out woman , who had never lighted well . 
Mrs General had no opinions . 
Her way of forming a mind was to prevent it from forming opinions . 
She had a little circular set of mental grooves or rails on which she started little trains of other people's opinions , which never overtook one another , and never got anywhere . 
This was another of her ways of forming a mind to cram all articles of difficulty into cupboards , lock them up , and say they had no existence . 
It was the easiest way , and , beyond all comparison , the properest . 
Mrs General was not to be told of anything shocking . 
Accidents , miseries , and offences , were never to be mentioned before her . 
Passion was to go to sleep in the presence of Mrs General , and blood was to change to milk and water . 
The little that was left in the world , when all these deductions were made , it was Mrs General's province to varnish . 
In that formation process of hers , she dipped the smallest of brushes into the largest of pots , and varnished the surface of every object that came under consideration . 
The more cracked it was , the more Mrs General varnished it . 
There was varnish in Mrs General's voice , varnish in Mrs General's touch , an atmosphere of varnish round Mrs General's figure . 
Mrs General's dreams ought to have been varnished if she had any lying asleep in the arms of the good Saint Bernard , with the feathery snow falling on his house top . 
Already the snow had begun to be foot thawed again about the door . 
Mr Gowan and Blandois of Paris had already breakfasted , and were walking up and down by the lake , smoking their cigars . 
'Gowan , eh ? muttered Tip , otherwise Edward Dorrit , Esquire , turning over the leaves of the book , when the courier had left them to breakfast . 
'Then Gowan is the name of a puppy , that's all I have got to say ! If it was worth my while , I'd pull his nose . 
But it isn't worth my while fortunately for him . 
How's his wife , Amy ? I suppose you know . 
You generally know things of that sort . 
'She is better , Edward . 
But they are not going to day . 
'Oh ! They are not going to day ! Fortunately for that fellow too , said Tip , 'or he and I might have come into collision . 
'It is thought better here that she should lie quiet to day , and not be fatigued and shaken by the ride down until to morrow . 
But you talk as if you had been nursing her . 
into old habits , have you , Amy ? He asked her the question with a sly glance of observation at Miss Fanny , and at his father too . 
'I have only been in to ask her if I could do anything for her , Tip , said Little Dorrit . 
'You needn't call me Tip , Amy child , returned that young gentleman with a frown 'because that's an old habit , and one you may as well lay aside . 
'I didn't mean to say so , Edward dear . 
It was so natural once , that it seemed at the moment the right word . 
'Oh yes ! Miss Fanny struck in . 
'I will not try to , Fanny . 
'Oh ! angry ! returned that young lady with a flounce . 
'Pray , Fanny , said Mr Dorrit , raising his eyebrows , 'what do you mean ? Explain yourself . 
'Oh ! Never mind , Pa , replied Miss Fanny , 'it's no great matter . 
She knew , or knew of , this Mrs Gowan before yesterday , and she may as well admit that she did . 
It's not very hard to divine whose friend Mrs Gowan is . 
'Whose friend ? inquired her father . 
'Amy , my child , said Mr Dorrit , tempering a bland severity with a dignified affection , 'is this the case ? Little Dorrit mildly answered , yes it was . 
'Yes it is ! cried Miss Fanny . 
And who , he added convincingly , must be a low minded thief , you know , or he never could have conducted himself as he did . 
'And see , said Miss Fanny , 'see what is involved in this ! Can we ever hope to be respected by our servants ? Never . 
'He is part of the same thing , returned Miss Fanny , 'and of a piece with all the rest . 
He obtruded himself upon us in the first instance . 
I always showed him , for one , that I could have dispensed with his company with the greatest pleasure . 
What else was to be expected when he was enjoying our past misfortunes gloating over them at the moment ! 'Father Edward no indeed ! pleaded Little Dorrit . 
'Neither Mr nor Mrs Gowan had ever heard our name . 
They were , and they are , quite ignorant of our history . 
'So much the worse , retorted Fanny , determined not to admit anything in extenuation , 'for then you have no excuse . 
If they had known about us , you might have felt yourself called upon to conciliate them . 
No. I can't respect that . 
I can do nothing but denounce that . 
'I never offend you wilfully , Fanny , said Little Dorrit , 'though you are so hard with me . 
'Then you should be more careful , Amy , returned her sister . 
'If you do such things by accident , you should be more careful . 
Mr Dorrit now interposed , at once to stop these painful subjects by his authority , and to point their moral by his wisdom . 
'My dear , said he to his younger daughter , 'I beg you to ha to say no more . 
Your sister Fanny expresses herself strongly , but not without considerable reason . 
You have now a hum a great position to support . 
That great position is not occupied by yourself alone , but by ha by me , and ha hum by us . 
To be vigilant in making themselves respected . 
Dependants , to respect us , must be ha kept at a distance and hum kept down . 
Therefore , your not exposing yourself to the remarks of our attendants by appearing to have at any time dispensed with their services and performed them for yourself , is ha highly important . 
'Why , who can doubt it ? cried Miss Fanny . 
'It's the essence of everything . 
'Fanny , returned her father , grandiloquently , 'give me leave , my dear . 
We then come to ha to Mr Clennam . 
I am free to say that I do not , Amy , share your sister's sentiments that is to say altogether hum altogether in reference to Mr Clennam . 
I am content to regard that individual in the light of ha generally a well behaved person . 
Nor will I inquire whether Mr Clennam did , at any time , obtrude himself on ha my society . 
He knew my society to be hum sought , and his plea might be that he regarded me in the light of a public character . 
If Mr Clennam has sufficient delicacy to perceive the impropriety of any such attempt , I am bound as a responsible gentleman to ha defer to that delicacy on his part . 
If , on the other hand , Mr Clennam has not that delicacy , I cannot for a moment ha hold any correspondence with so hum coarse a mind . 
In either case , it would appear that Mr Clennam is put altogether out of the question , and that we have nothing to do with him or he with us . 
Ha Mrs General ! The entrance of the lady whom he announced , to take her place at the breakfast table , terminated the discussion . 
Mr Gowan stood aloof with his cigar and pencil , but Mr Blandois was on the spot to pay his respects to the ladies . 
Sometimes the way so widened that she and her father could ride abreast . 
In all other respects , save one , he shone with no light but such as was reflected from his brother . 
His brother's greatness , wealth , freedom , and grandeur , pleased him without any reference to himself . 
Silent and retiring , he had no use for speech when he could hear his brother speak no desire to be waited on , so that the servants devoted themselves to his brother . 
The only noticeable change he originated in himself , was an alteration in his manner to his younger niece . 
Yet it never appeared misplaced or forced , being always heartily simple , spontaneous , and genuine . 
Neither would he ever consent , even at his brother's request , to be helped to any place before her , or to take precedence of her in anything . 
They were a goodly company , and the Innkeepers all but worshipped them . 
Wherever they went , their importance preceded them in the person of the courier riding before , to see that the rooms of state were ready . 
He was the herald of the family procession . 
Edward Dorrit , Esquire , for whom the box was reserved . 
Then came the chariot containing Frederick Dorrit , Esquire , and an empty place occupied by Edward Dorrit , Esquire , in wet weather . 
Then came the fourgon with the rest of the retainers , the heavy baggage , and as much as it could carry of the mud and dust which the other vehicles left behind . 
These equipages adorned the yard of the hotel at Martigny , on the return of the family from their mountain excursion . 
But there was another adornment of the hotel which Mr Dorrit had not bargained for . 
Two strange travellers embellished one of his rooms . 
Nothing could exceed Mr Dorrit's indignation , as he turned at the foot of the staircase on hearing these apologies . 
He felt that the family dignity was struck at by an assassin's hand . 
He had a sense of his dignity , which was of the most exquisite nature . 
He could detect a design upon it when nobody else had any perception of the fact . 
His life was made an agony by the number of fine scalpels that he felt to be incessantly engaged in dissecting his dignity . 
He besought Monseigneur not to enrage himself . 
He threw himself on Monseigneur for clemency . 
If Monseigneur would have the distinguished goodness to occupy the other salon especially reserved for him , for but five minutes , all would go well . 
'No , sir , said Mr Dorrit . 
'I will not occupy any salon . 
I will leave your house without eating or drinking , or setting foot in it . 
If he separated Monseigneur from others , it was only because he was more distinguished , more cherished , more generous , more renowned . 
'Don't tell me so , sir , returned Mr Dorrit , in a mighty heat . 
You have heaped insults upon me . 
How dare you ? Explain yourself . 
I demand of you , why ? I wish to know on ha what authority , on whose authority . 
Permit the landlord humbly to submit to Monsieur the Courier then , that Monseigneur , ordinarily so gracious , enraged himself without cause . 
The very genteel lady 'Silence ! cried Mr Dorrit . 
'Hold your tongue ! I will hear no more of the very genteel lady I will hear no more of you . 
Look at this family my family a family more genteel than any lady . 
You have treated this family with disrespect you have been insolent to this family . 
What the reasons of his presumption could be , she was at a loss to imagine but reasons he must have , and they ought to be torn from him . 
But the very genteel lady's English chariot being already horsed and at the inn door , the landlord had slipped up stairs to represent his hard case . 
'Beg your pardon , said the gentleman , detaching himself from the lady , and coming forward . 
'I am a man of few words and a bad hand at an explanation but lady here is extremely anxious that there should be no Row . 
Lady a mother of mine , in point of fact wishes me to say that she hopes no Row . 
Mr Dorrit , still panting under his injury , saluted the gentleman , and saluted the lady , in a distant , final , and invincible manner . 
'No , but really here , old feller you ! This was the gentleman's way of appealing to Edward Dorrit , Esquire , on whom he pounced as a great and providential relief . 
'Let you and I try to make this all right . 
Lady so very much wishes no Row . 
'No , said the other , 'I know it isn't . 
Still , let you and I try to make it all right , and avoid Row . 
The fault is not this chap's at all , but my mother's . 
Being a remarkably fine woman with no bigodd nonsense about her well educated , too she was too many for this chap . 
'If that's the case Edward Dorrit , Esquire , began . 
'Assure you 'pon my soul 'tis the case . 
time as I could dine in . 
I trust in saying this For a moment the lady , with a glass at her eye , stood transfixed and speechless before the two Miss Dorrits . 
Not so , however , Mr Sparkler . 
He was no sooner within than the pad of the little window in the back of the chariot disappeared , and his eye usurped its place . 
like an ill executed eye in a large locket . 
This encounter was so highly agreeable to Miss Fanny , and gave her so much to think of with triumph afterwards , that it softened her asperities exceedingly . 
Little Dorrit was glad to be found no fault with , and to see that Fanny was pleased but her part in the procession was a musing part , and a quiet one . 
Sitting opposite her father in the travelling carriage , and recalling the old Marshalsea room , her present existence was a dream . 
She had obeyed without a murmur . 
Nay , even the old mean Marshalsea was shaken to its foundations when she pictured it without her father . 
Through such scenes , the family procession moved on to Venice . 
But her favourite station was the balcony of her own room , overhanging the canal , with other balconies below , and none above . 
Such people were not realities to the little figure of the English girl such people were all unknown to her . 
She would watch those glories expire and then , after looking at the black gondolas underneath , taking guests to music and dancing , would raise her eyes to the shining stars . 
And then she would lean upon her balcony , and look over at the water , as though they all lay underneath it . 
CHAPTER A Letter from Little Dorrit Dear Mr Clennam , I write to you from my own room at Venice , thinking you will be glad to hear from me . 
She told me she was very well and very happy . 
She sent you the message , by me , that she thanked you affectionately and would never forget you . 
She was quite confiding with me , and I loved her almost as soon as I spoke to her . 
But there is nothing singular in that who could help loving so beautiful and winning a creature ! I could not wonder at any one loving her . 
I should feel that I was rather lonely and lost , for the want of some one who was steadfast and firm in purpose . 
I even thought she felt this want a little , almost without knowing it . 
But mind you are not made uneasy by this , for she was 'very well and very happy . 
And she looked most beautiful . 
I expect to meet her again before long , and indeed have been expecting for some days past to see her here . 
I will ever be as good a friend to her as I can for your sake . 
, but I think much of it , and I never can forget it . 
There is an improvement in my uncle too , I think , though he never complained of old , and never exults now . 
Fanny is very graceful , quick , and clever . 
It is natural to her to be a lady she has adapted herself to our new fortunes with wonderful ease . 
This reminds me that I have not been able to do so , and that I sometimes almost despair of ever being able to do so . 
I find that I cannot learn . 
Mrs General is always with us , and we speak French and speak Italian , and she takes pains to form us in many ways . 
When I say we speak French and Italian , I mean they do . 
As for me , I am so slow that I scarcely get on at all . 
I should not have the courage to mention this to any one but you . 
It is the same with all these new countries and wonderful sights . 
What I knew before them , blends with them , too , so curiously . 
We were shut out that night , and sat at the iron gate , and walked about till morning . 
I often look up at the stars , even from the balcony of this room , and believe that I am in the street again , shut out with Maggy . 
It is the same with people that I left in England . 
When I go about here in a gondola , I surprise myself looking into other gondolas as if I hoped to see them . 
It would overcome me with joy to see them , but I don't think it would surprise me much , at first . 
In my fanciful times , I fancy that they might be anywhere and I almost expect to see their dear faces on the bridges or the quays . 
Another difficulty that I have will seem very strange to you . 
It must seem very strange to any one but me , and does even to me I often feel the old sad pity for I need not write the word for him . 
I should be glad after that , and proud and happy . 
But I know that I must not do this that he would not like it , that Fanny would be angry , that Mrs General would be amazed and so I quiet myself . 
I must tell you that as to this , I have felt , ever since I have been away , an anxiety which I am very anxious to relieve . 
I have been afraid that you may think of me in a new light , or a new character . 
Don't do that , I could not bear that it would make me more unhappy than you can suppose . 
It would break my heart to believe that you thought of me in any way that would make me stranger to you than I was when you were so good to me . 
, and of my true affection and devoted gratitude , always without change , as of your poor child , LITTLE DORRIT . 
P. S. Particularly remember that you are not to be uneasy about Mrs Gowan . 
Her words were , 'Very well and very happy . 
And she looked most beautiful . 
, to present his compliments to that lady , and represent him as desiring the favour of an interview . 
, the envoy threw open the door , and escorted Mrs General to the presence . 
A chair to Mrs General . 
'I was quite at your disposition . 
I had had my coffee . 
, 'There is a great difference . 
'May I ask to be favoured with your view of it ? said Mr Dorrit , with a deference not incompatible with majestic serenity . 
'Fanny , returned Mrs General , 'has force of character and self reliance . 
None ? O Mrs General , ask the Marshalsea stones and bars . 
O Mrs General , ask the milliner who taught her to work , and the dancing master who taught her sister to dance . 
He looked at Mrs General , seated in her usual erect attitude on her coach box behind the proprieties , and he said in a thoughtful manner , 'True , madam . 
'I would not , said Mrs General , 'be understood to say , observe , that there is nothing to improve in Fanny . 
But there is material there perhaps , indeed , a little too much . 
'Will you be kind enough , madam , said Mr Dorrit , 'to be ha more explicit ? I do not quite understand my elder daughter's having hum too much material . 
What material ? 'Fanny , returned Mrs General , 'at present forms too many opinions . 
Perfect breeding forms none , and is never demonstrative . 
Lest he himself should be found deficient in perfect breeding , Mr Dorrit hastened to reply , 'Unquestionably , madam , you are right . 
Mrs General returned , in her emotionless and expressionless manner , 'I believe so . 
There is adaptability of character in Fanny . 
But my younger daughter , Mrs General , rather worries and vexes my thoughts . 
I must inform you that she has always been my favourite . 
'There is no accounting , said Mrs General , 'for these partialities . 
'Ha no , assented Mr Dorrit . 
Now , madam , I am troubled by noticing that Amy is not , so to speak , one of ourselves . 
She does not Care to go about with us she is lost in the society we have here our tastes are evidently not her tastes . 
Which , said Mr Dorrit , summing up with judicial gravity , 'is to say , in other words , that there is something wrong in ha Amy . 
'True , said Mrs General , 'true . 
She has expressed herself to me as wondering exceedingly at Venice . 
I have mentioned to her that it is better not to wonder . 
I need not add , after what you have said , that I have not yet found my arguments successful . 
You do me the honour to ask me what to advise . 
, that Mr Dorrit has been accustomed to exercise influence over the minds of others . 
'Hum madam , said Mr Dorrit , 'I have been at the head of ha of a considerable community . 
You are right in supposing that I am not unaccustomed to an influential position . 
'I am happy , returned Mrs General , 'to be so corroborated . 
I would therefore the more confidently recommend that Mr Dorrit should speak to Amy himself , and make his observations and wishes known to her . 
Being his favourite , besides , and no doubt attached to him , she is all the more likely to yield to his influence . 
'Then , with your leave , madam , resumed Mr Dorrit , ringing his little bell to summon his valet , 'I will send for her at once . 
'Does Mr Dorrit wish me to remain ? 'Perhaps , if you have no other engagement , you would not object for a minute or two 'Not at all . 
So , Tinkler the valet was instructed to find Miss Amy's maid , and to request that subordinate to inform Miss Amy that Mr Dorrit wished to see her in his own room . 
If Tinkler had happened to smile , however faintly and innocently , nothing would have persuaded Mr Dorrit , to the hour of his death , but that this was the case . 
As Tinkler happened , however , very fortunately for himself , to be of a serious and composed countenance , he escaped the secret danger that threatened him . 
'Amy , said Mr Dorrit , 'you have just now been the subject of some conversation between myself and Mrs General . 
We agree that you scarcely seem at home here . 
Ha how is this ? A pause . 
'I think , father , I require a little time . 
'Papa is a preferable mode of address , observed Mrs General . 
'Father is rather vulgar , my dear . 
The word Papa , besides , gives a pretty form to the lips . 
Papa , potatoes , poultry , prunes , and prism are all very good words for the lips especially prunes and prism . 
'Pray , my child , said Mr Dorrit , 'attend to the hum precepts of Mrs General . 
Poor Little Dorrit , with a rather forlorn glance at that eminent varnisher , promised to try . 
'You say , Amy , pursued Mr Dorrit , 'that you think you require time . 
Time for what ? Another pause . 
Mr Dorrit frowned , and looked anything but pleased . 
'Amy , he returned , 'it appears to me , I must say , that you have had abundance of time for that . 
Fanny has conquered any such little difficulties , and hum why not you ? 'I hope I shall do better soon , said Little Dorrit . 
'I hope so , returned her father . 
'I ha I most devoutly hope so , Amy . 
You make Mrs General's a thankless task . 
You ha embarrass me very much . 
Mr Dorrit was even a little more fragmentary than usual , being excited on the subject and anxious to make himself particularly emphatic . 
Nothing disagreeable should ever be looked at . 
Apart from such a habit standing in the way of that graceful equanimity of surface which is so expressive of good breeding , it hardly seems compatible with refinement of mind . 
A truly refined mind will seem to be ignorant of the existence of anything that is not perfectly proper , placid , and pleasant . 
Having delivered this exalted sentiment , Mrs General made a sweeping obeisance , and retired with an expression of mouth indicative of Prunes and Prism . 
Little Dorrit , whether speaking or silent , had preserved her quiet earnestness and her loving look . 
It had not been clouded , except for a passing moment , until now . 
But now that she was left alone with him the fingers of her lightly folded hands were agitated , and there was repressed emotion in her face . 
She might feel a little wounded , but her care was not for herself . 
Her thoughts still turned , as they always had turned , to him . 
She felt that , in what he had just now said to her and in his whole bearing towards her , there was the well known shadow of the Marshalsea wall . 
It took a new shape , but it was the old sad shadow . 
She had no blame to bestow upon him , therefore nothing to reproach him with , no emotions in her faithful heart but great compassion and unbounded tenderness . 
If he divined what was in her thoughts , his own were not in tune with it . 
After some uneasy moving in his seat , he got up and walked about , looking very much dissatisfied . 
'Is there anything else you wish to say to me , dear father ? 'No , no . 
'I am sorry you have not been pleased with me , dear . 
I hope you will not think of me with displeasure now . 
'Amy , he returned , turning short upon her . 
'You ha habitually hurt me . 
You , Amy hum you alone and only you constantly revive the topic , though not in words . 
She laid her hand on his arm . 
There was a reproach in the touch so addressed to him that she had not foreseen , or she would have withheld her hand . 
He began to justify himself in a heated , stumbling , angry manner , which made nothing of it . 
'I was there all those years . 
I was ha universally acknowledged as the head of the place . 
I hum I caused you to be respected there , Amy . 
I ha hum I gave my family a position there . 
I say , sweep it off the face of the earth and begin afresh . 
'Accordingly , they do it . 
You alone , my favourite child , whom I made the friend and companion of my life when you were a mere hum Baby , do not do it . 
You alone say you can't do it . 
I provide you with valuable assistance to do it . 
I attach an accomplished and highly bred lady ha Mrs General , to you , for the purpose of doing it . 
'I am careful to appeal to that lady for confirmation , before I express any displeasure at all . 
I hum I necessarily make that appeal within limited bounds , or I ha should render legible , by that lady , what I desire to be blotted out . 
Am I selfish ? Do I complain for my own sake ? No. No. Principally for ha hum your sake , Amy . 
This last consideration plainly appeared , from his manner of pursuing it , to have just that instant come into his head . 
'I said I was hurt . 
So I ha am determined to be , whatever is advanced to the contrary . 
I am hurt that my daughter , seated in the hum lap of fortune , should mope and retire and proclaim herself unequal to her destiny . 
But there is no inconsistency ha not the least , in my feeling hurt , and yet complaining principally for your sake , Amy . 
I do I say again , I do . 
It is for your sake that I wish you , under the auspices of Mrs General , to form a hum a surface . 
to be ignorant of everything that is not perfectly proper , placid , and pleasant . 
He had been running down by jerks , during his last speech , like a sort of ill adjusted alarum . 
The touch was still upon his arm . 
He fell silent and after looking about the ceiling again for a little while , looked down at her . 
'Hush , hush , my own dear ! Kiss me ! was all she said to him . 
But , now , the breakfast hour arrived and with it Miss Fanny from her apartment , and Mr Edward from his apartment . 
Both these young persons of distinction were something the worse for late hours . 
, during the greater part of every night . 
At breakfast , Mr Frederick Dorrit likewise appeared . 
Notwithstanding some objections from Miss Fanny , that it was a low instrument , and that she detested the sound of it , the concession had been made . 
But it was then discovered that he had had enough of it , and never played it , now that it was no longer his means of getting bread . 
and of passing hours and hours before the portraits of renowned Venetians . 
But he paid his court to them with great exactness , and clearly derived pleasure from the pursuit . 
After the first few days , Little Dorrit happened one morning to assist at these attentions . 
'I dare say you remember them , William ? I dare say you do , Edward ? I remember 'em well enough , said the latter . 
'I should think so , observed Miss Fanny , with a toss of her head and a glance at her sister . 
'But they would not have been recalled to our remembrance , I suspect , if Uncle hadn't tumbled over the subject . 
'My dear , what a curious phrase , said Mrs General . 
'Would not inadvertently lighted upon , or accidentally referred to , be better ? 'Thank you very much , Mrs General , returned the young lady , no ) I think not . 
On the whole I prefer my own expression . 
This was always Miss Fanny's way of receiving a suggestion from Mrs General . 
But she always stored it up in her mind , and adopted it at another time . 
'I should have mentioned our having met Mr and Mrs Gowan , Fanny , said Little Dorrit , 'even if Uncle had not . 
I have scarcely seen you since , you know . 
'Well , Amy , said Fanny , 'I am sure I am glad to find you at last expressing a wish to become better acquainted with anybody in Venice . 
Though whether Mr and Mrs Gowan are desirable acquaintances , remains to be determined . 
'Mrs Gowan I spoke of , dear . 
'No doubt , said Fanny . 
'But you can't separate her from her husband , I believe , without an Act of Parliament . 
At this remark the face of Mr Dorrit gloomed considerably . 
Those menials having obeyed the mandate , Edward Dorrit , Esquire , proceeded . 
'That , I would say , observed the fair varnisher , 'Makes the greatest difference . 
The connection in question , being really people of importance and consideration 'As to that , said Edward Dorrit , Esquire , 'I'll give you the means of judging for yourself . 
You are acquainted , perhaps , with the famous name of Merdle ? 'The great Merdle ! exclaimed Mrs General . 
'THE Merdle , said Edward Dorrit , Esquire . 
'They are known to him . 
Mrs Gowan I mean the dowager , my polite friend's mother is intimate with Mrs Merdle , and I know these two to be on their visiting list . 
To begin with , Mrs Merdle is the lady you had the parley with at what's his name place . 
'Martigny , interposed Miss Fanny with an air of infinite languor . 
'Martigny , assented her brother , with a slight nod and a slight wink in acknowledgment of which , Miss Fanny looked surprised , and laughed and reddened . 
'How can that be , Edward ? said Mr Dorrit . 
'You informed me that the name of the gentleman with whom you conferred was ha Sparkler . 
Indeed , you showed me his card . 
'No doubt of it , father but it doesn't follow that his mother's name must be the same . 
Mrs Merdle was married before , and he is her son . 
She is in Rome now where probably we shall know more of her , as you decide to winter there . 
Sparkler is just come here . 
I passed last evening in company with Sparkler . 
Sparkler is a very good fellow on the whole , though rather a bore on one subject , in consequence of being tremendously smitten with a certain young lady . 
Here Edward Dorrit , Esquire , eyed Miss Fanny through his glass across the table . 
'We happened last night to compare notes about our travels , and I had the information I have given you from Sparkler himself . 
I trust I may ha hail this desire , said Mr Dorrit , in an encouraging and forgiving manner , 'as an auspicious omen . 
It is quite right to know these people . 
It is a very proper thing . 
Mr Merdle's is a name of ha world wide repute . 
Mr Merdle's undertakings are immense . 
They bring him in such vast sums of money that they are regarded as hum national benefits . 
Mr Merdle is the man of this time . 
The name of Merdle is the name of the age . 
Pray do everything on my behalf that is civil to Mr and Mrs Gowan , for we will ha we will certainly notice them . 
This magnificent accordance of Mr Dorrit's recognition settled the matter . 
It was not observed that Uncle had pushed away his plate , and forgotten his breakfast but he was not much observed at any time , except by Little Dorrit . 
The servants were recalled , and the meal proceeded to its conclusion . 
Mrs General rose and left the table . 
Little Dorrit rose and left the table . 
The paper fell from Mr Dorrit's hand , and he sat petrified , with a fig half way to his mouth . 
'Brother ! said the old man , conveying a surprising energy into his trembling voice , 'I protest against it ! I love you you know I love you dearly . 
In these many years I have never been untrue to you in a single thought . 
Weak as I am , I would at any time have struck any man who spoke ill of you . 
But , brother , brother , brother , I protest against it ! It was extraordinary to see of what a burst of earnestness such a decrepit man was capable . 
'My dear Frederick ! exclaimed Mr Dorrit faintly . 
I don't deserve to be so treated . 
I am as grateful to Amy , and as fond of Amy , as it's possible for any human being to be . 
I wish I was dead . 
I never was so wickedly wronged . 
And only because I am anxious for the family credit . 
'To the winds with the family credit ! cried the old man , with great scorn and indignation . 
'Brother , I protest against pride . 
We may know that it's a base pretension by its having that effect . 
It ought to bring a judgment on us . 
Brother , I protest against it in the sight of God ! As his hand went up above his head and came down on the table , it might have been a blacksmith's . 
After a few moments' silence , it had relaxed into its usual weak condition . 
All this time Fanny had been sobbing and crying , and still continued to do so . 
Edward , beyond opening his mouth in amazement , had not opened his lips , and had done nothing but stare . 
Mr Dorrit also had been utterly discomfited , and quite unable to assert himself in any way . 
Fanny was now the first to speak . 
'I never , never , never was so used ! she sobbed . 
'My dear , said he , 'I ha approve of your resolution . 
It will be ha hum much better not to speak of this to Amy . 
It might hum it might distress her . 
No doubt it would distress her greatly . 
It is considerate and right to avoid doing so . 
We will ha keep this to ourselves . 
'But the cruelty of Uncle ! cried Miss Fanny . 
You must remember that your uncle is ha not what he formerly was . 
You must remember that your uncle's state requires hum great forbearance from us , great forbearance . 
, than such another had in his whole mind and body . 
To Venice they had been accompanied by Monsieur Blandois of Paris , and at Venice Monsieur Blandois of Paris was very much in the society of Gowan . 
It chanced , however , that his wife expressed a dislike to the engaging Blandois , and that the balance of feeling in the hotel was against him . 
Upon it , Gowan resolved to encourage him . 
Why this perversity , if it were not in a generous fit ? which it was not . 
In the second place , he opposed the prevalent feeling , because with many capacities of being otherwise , he was an ill conditioned man . 
He found a pleasure in declaring that a courtier with the refined manners of Blandois ought to rise to the greatest distinction in any polished country . 
He found a pleasure in setting up Blandois as the type of elegance , and making him a satire upon others who piqued themselves on personal graces . 
for a hundred thousand francs . 
Below the Bank was a suite of three or four rooms with barred windows , which had the appearance of a jail for criminal rats . 
Above the Bank was Mrs Gowan's residence . 
Mrs Gowan , who was engaged in needlework , put her work aside in a covered basket , and rose , a little hurriedly . 
Miss Fanny was excessively courteous to her , and said the usual nothings with the skill of a veteran . 
and particularly requested me to bring his card for Mr Gowan . 
Which she did with veteran ease . 
'We have been , said Fanny , 'charmed to understand that you know the Merdles . 
We hope it may be another means of bringing us together . 
'They are friends , said Mrs Gowan , 'of Mr Gowan's family . 
I have not yet had the pleasure of a personal introduction to Mrs Merdle , but I suppose I shall be presented to her at Rome . 
'Indeed ? returned Fanny , with an appearance of amiably quenching her own superiority . 
'I think you'll like her . 
'You know her very well ? 'Why , you see , said Fanny , with a frank action of her pretty shoulders , 'in London one knows every one . 
However , of course , that soon blew over , and we were all good friends again . 
Although the visit had as yet given Little Dorrit no opportunity of conversing with Mrs Gowan , there was a silent understanding between them , which did as well . 
She was quicker to perceive the slightest matter here , than in any other case but one . 
'You have been quite well , she now said , 'since that night ? 'Quite , my dear . 
And you ? 'Oh ! I am always well , said Little Dorrit , timidly . 
'I yes , thank you . 
There was no reason for her faltering and breaking off , other than that Mrs Gowan had touched her hand in speaking to her , and their looks had met . 
Something thoughtfully apprehensive in the large , soft eyes , had checked Little Dorrit in an instant . 
'You don't know that you are a favourite of my husband's , and that I am almost bound to be jealous of you ? said Mrs Gowan . 
Little Dorrit , blushing , shook her head . 
'He will tell you , if he tells you what he tells me , that you are quieter and quicker of resource than any one he ever saw . 
'He speaks far too well of me , said Little Dorrit . 
'I doubt that but I don't at all doubt that I must tell him you are here . 
I should never be forgiven , if I were to let you and Miss Dorrit go , without doing so . 
Mrs Gowan went to a door , looked in beyond it , and came back . 
She recoiled from this figure , as it smiled at her . 
'Don't be alarmed , said Gowan , coming from his easel behind the door . 
He is doing duty as a model to day . 
I am making a study of him . 
It saves me money to turn him to some use . 
We poor painters have none to spare . 
Blandois of Paris pulled off his slouched hat , and saluted the ladies without coming out of his corner . 
'A thousand pardons ! said he . 
'But the Professore here is so inexorable with me , that I am afraid to stir . 
'Don't stir , then , said Gowan coolly , as the sisters approached the easel . 
'Let the ladies at least see the original of the daub , that they may know what it's meant for . 
There he stands , you see . 
'Or say , Cattivo Soggetto Mio , returned Gowan , touching the painted face with his brush in the part where the real face had moved , 'a murderer after the fact . 
Show that white hand of yours , Blandois . 
Put it outside the cloak . 
Blandois' hand was unsteady but he laughed , and that would naturally shake it . 
His face was so directed in reference to the spot where Little Dorrit stood by the easel , that throughout he looked at her . 
Once attracted by his peculiar eyes , she could not remove her own , and they had looked at each other all the time . 
He had been crouching for a spring at the moment when his master caught him . 
'Lion ! Lion ! He was up on his hind legs , and it was a wrestle between master and dog . 
'Get back ! Down , Lion ! Get out of his sight , Blandois ! What devil have you conjured into the dog ? 'I have done nothing to him . 
'Now get you into that corner and lie down , said Gowan , 'or I'll take you out and shoot you . 
Lion did as he was ordered , and lay down licking his mouth and chest . 
Lion's master stopped for a moment to take breath , and then , recovering his usual coolness of manner , turned to speak to his frightened wife and her visitors . 
Probably the whole occurrence had not occupied two minutes . 
'Come , come , Minnie ! You know he is always good humoured and tractable . 
Blandois must have irritated him , made faces at him . 
'You furious brute , said Gowan , striking him with his foot again . 
'You shall do penance for this . 
And he struck him again , and yet again . 
'O , pray don't punish him any more , cried Little Dorrit . 
It was not easy to recover this shock and make the visit unrestrained , even though Fanny had not been , under the best of circumstances , the least trifle in the way . 
He seemed so unsuspicious of the depths of feeling which she knew must lie below that surface , that she doubted if there could be any such depths in himself . 
'Who ? said Little Dorrit . 
, 'how slow you are ! Young Sparkler . 
She lowered the window on her side , and , leaning back and resting her elbow on it negligently , fanned herself with a rich Spanish fan of black and gold . 
'My precious child , returned Fanny , 'I can't possibly answer for what an idiot in a state of desperation may do , but I should think it highly probable . 
It's not such an enormous distance . 
All Venice would scarcely be that , I imagine , if he's dying for a glimpse of me . 
'And is he ? asked Little Dorrit in perfect simplicity . 
'Well , my love , that really is an awkward question for me to answer , said her sister . 
You had better ask Edward . 
He tells Edward he is , I believe . 
I understand he makes a perfect spectacle of himself at the Casino , and that sort of places , by going on about me . 
But you had better ask Edward if you want to know . 
'I wonder he doesn't call , said Little Dorrit after thinking a moment . 
'My dear Amy , your wonder will soon cease , if I am rightly informed . 
I should not be at all surprised if he called to day . 
The creature has only been waiting to get his courage up , I suspect . 
'Will you see him ? 'Indeed , my darling , said Fanny , 'that's just as it may happen . 
When we saw that woman at Martigny , how did you think she carried it off ? Did you see what she decided on in a moment ? 'No , Fanny . 
'Then I'll tell you , Amy . 
She settled with herself , now I'll never refer to that meeting under such different circumstances , and I'll never pretend to have any idea that these are the same girls . 
That's her way out of a difficulty . 
What did I tell you when we came away from Harley Street that time ? She is as insolent and false as any woman in the world . 
But in the first capacity , my love , she may find people who can match her . 
A significant turn of the Spanish fan towards Fanny's bosom , indicated with great expression where one of these people was to be found . 
, that he is to pretend to have been first struck with me in that Inn Yard . 
'Why ? asked Little Dorrit . 
, observed Miss Fanny , glancing complacently at herself , 'of considering our feelings ? 'But we can always go back to the plain truth . 
'Yes , but if you please we won't , retorted Fanny . 
'No I am not going to have that done , Amy . 
The pretext is none of mine it's hers , and she shall have enough of it . 
'She shall find me go her way . 
She took it , and I'll follow it . 
She could not concur , but she was silent . 
Fanny well knew what she was thinking of so well , that she soon asked her . 
No , I don't mean to encourage him . 
But I'll make a slave of him . 
Little Dorrit glanced seriously and doubtfully in her face , but Fanny was not to be so brought to a check . 
'I shall make him fetch and carry , my dear , and I shall make him subject to me . 
And if I don't make his mother subject to me , too , it shall not be my fault . 
And really they have taken me so long to develop , that here we are at home . 
And Young Sparkler at the door , inquiring who is within . 
By the merest accident , of course ! In effect , the swain was standing up in his gondola , card case in hand , affecting to put the question to a servant . 
Miss Fanny had no recollection of having ever seen him before , and was passing on , with a distant inclination of her head , when he announced himself by name . 
Even then she was in a difficulty from being unable to call it to mind , until he explained that he had had the honour of seeing her at Martigny . 
Then she remembered him , and hoped his lady mother was well . 
'Thank you , stammered Mr Sparkler , 'she's uncommonly well at least , poorly . 
'In Venice ? said Miss Fanny . 
'In Rome , Mr Sparkler answered . 
'I am here by myself , myself . 
I came to call upon Mr Edward Dorrit myself . 
Indeed , upon Mr Dorrit likewise . 
In fact , upon the family . 
Turning graciously to the attendants , Miss Fanny inquired whether her papa or brother was within ? The reply being that they were both within , Mr Sparkler humbly offered his arm . 
that she had no nonsense about her , rather deceived himself . 
Mr Dorrit welcomed the visitor with the highest urbanity , and most courtly manners . 
He inquired particularly after Mrs Merdle . 
He inquired particularly after Mr Merdle . 
As to himself , Mr Sparkler conveyed to the Dorrit family that he was going , on rather particular business , wherever they were going . 
This immense conversational achievement required time , but was effected . 
Being effected , Mr Dorrit expressed his hope that Mr Sparkler would shortly dine with them . 
, he was secured without postponement being further bound over to accompany the ladies to the Opera in the evening . 
At dinner time Mr Sparkler rose out of the sea , like Venus's son taking after his mother , and made a splendid appearance ascending the great staircase . 
'I hear you are acquainted , Mr Sparkler , said his host at dinner , 'with ha Mr Gowan . 
Mr Henry Gowan ? 'Perfectly , sir , returned Mr Sparkler . 
'His mother and my mother are cronies in fact . 
Some of our people could have ha fetched them , and taken them home . 
We could have spared a hum gondola for that purpose . 
I am sorry to have forgotten this . 
Pray remind me of them to morrow . 
Little Dorrit was not without doubts how Mr Henry Gowan might take their patronage but she promised not to fail in the reminder . 
'Pray , does Mr Henry Gowan paint ha Portraits ? inquired Mr Dorrit . 
Mr Sparkler opined that he painted anything , if he could get the job . 
'He has no particular walk ? said Mr Dorrit . 
Whereas , he believed that Henry Gowan had no particular pair of shoes . 
'No speciality ? said Mr Dorrit . 
This being a very long word for Mr Sparkler , and his mind being exhausted by his late effort , he replied , 'No , thank you . 
'Well ! said Mr Dorrit . 
I think I must engage Mr Gowan to paint my picture . 
If the result should be ha mutually satisfactory , I might afterwards engage him to try his hand upon my family . 
to whom no painter could render justice . 
But , for want of a form of words in which to express the idea , it returned to the skies . 
This was the more to be regretted as Miss Fanny greatly applauded the notion of the portrait , and urged her papa to act upon it . 
But he had two consolations at the close of the performance . 
She gave him her fan to hold while she adjusted her cloak , and it was his blessed privilege to give her his arm down stairs again . 
These crumbs of encouragement , Mr Sparkler thought , would just keep him going and it is not impossible that Miss Dorrit thought so too . 
The Merman with his light was ready at the box door , and other Mermen with other lights were ready at many of the doors . 
Among the loiterers here , was Blandois of Paris . 
He spoke , and moved forward beside Fanny . 
, but on the brink of the quay they all came together . 
She started again to find Blandois close to her , handing Fanny into the boat . 
'Gowan has had a loss , he said , 'since he was made happy to day by a visit from fair ladies . 
'A loss ? repeated Fanny , relinquished by the bereaved Sparkler , and taking her seat . 
'A loss , said Blandois . 
Little Dorrit's hand was in his , as he spoke . 
'He is dead , said Blandois . 
'Dead ? echoed Little Dorrit . 
'That noble dog ? 'Faith , dear ladies ! said Blandois , smiling and shrugging his shoulders , 'somebody has poisoned that noble dog . 
Hard as she had tried in her laborious life to attain many ends , she had never tried harder than she did now , to be varnished by Mrs General . 
The continued kindness of her sister was this comfort to Little Dorrit . 
It was nothing to her that the kindness took the form of tolerant patronage she was used to that . 
This rendered confidences with Fanny doubly precious to Little Dorrit , and heightened the relief they afforded her . 
You won't guess what it is , I suspect . 
'I don't think that's likely , dear , said Little Dorrit . 
'Come , I'll give you a clue , child , said Fanny . 
'Now , can you guess , Amy ? said Fanny . 
Unless I have done anything , said Little Dorrit , rather alarmed , and meaning anything calculated to crack varnish and ruffle surface . 
, and tapped her sister frequently on the nose with it , laughing all the time . 
'Oh , our Amy , our Amy ! said Fanny . 
'What a timid little goose our Amy is ! But this is nothing to laugh at . 
On the contrary , I am very cross , my dear . 
'As it is not with me , Fanny , I don't mind , returned her sister , smiling . 
'Ah ! But I do mind , said Fanny , 'and so will you , Pet , when I enlighten you . 
Amy , has it never struck you that somebody is monstrously polite to Mrs General ? 'Everybody is polite to Mrs General , said Little Dorrit . 
'Because 'Because she freezes them into it ? interrupted Fanny . 
'I don't mean that quite different from that . 
Come ! Has it never struck you , Amy , that Pa is monstrously polite to Mrs General . 
Amy , murmuring 'No , looked quite confounded . 
'No I dare say not . 
But he is , said Fanny . 
Mrs General has designs on Pa ! 'Dear Fanny , do you think it possible that Mrs General has designs on any one ? 'Do I think it possible ? retorted Fanny . 
'My love , I know it . 
I tell you she has designs on Pa . 
'Lord , my darling , said Fanny , tartly . 
'You might as well ask me how I know when a man is struck with myself ! But , of course I do know . 
It happens pretty often but I always know it . 
I know this in much the same way , I suppose . 
At all events , I know it . 
'You never heard Papa say anything ? 'Say anything ? repeated Fanny . 
It would come out when she played it . 
'At least , you may be mistaken , Fanny . 
Now , may you not ? 'O yes , I MAY be , said Fanny , 'but I am not . 
It makes me hope that you may be able to bear the connection . 
I should not be able to bear it , and I should not try . 
I'd marry young Sparkler first . 
'O , you would never marry him , Fanny , under any circumstances . 
'Upon my word , my dear , rejoined that young lady with exceeding indifference , 'I wouldn't positively answer even for that . 
There's no knowing what might happen . 
Especially as I should have many opportunities , afterwards , of treating that woman , his mother , in her own style . 
Which I most decidedly should not be slow to avail myself of , Amy . 
, no observation was to be made in that quarter . 
Mr Dorrit was undeniably very polite to her and had a high opinion of her but Fanny , impetuous at most times , might easily be wrong for all that . 
The devotion of Mr Sparkler was only to be equalled by the caprice and cruelty of his enslaver . 
Blandois highly extolling it , it occurred to Mr Dorrit that it might be agreeable to Blandois to communicate to his friend the great opportunity reserved for him . 
Blandois accepted the commission with his own free elegance of manner , and swore he would discharge it before he was an hour older . 
, and was inclined to quarrel with his friend for bringing him the message . 
'It may be a defect in my mental vision , Blandois , said he , 'but may I die if I see what you have to do with this . 
'Death of my life , replied Blandois , 'nor I neither , except that I thought I was serving my friend . 
'By putting an upstart's hire in his pocket ? said Gowan , frowning . 
'Do you mean that ? Tell your other friend to get his head painted for the sign of some public house , and to get it done by a sign painter . 
When shall we go and look after this job ? 'When you will , said the injured Blandois , 'as you please . 
What have I to do with it ? What is it to me ? 'I can tell you what it is to me , said Gowan . 
One must eat ! So come along , my Blandois . 
Mr Dorrit received them in the presence of his daughters and of Mr Sparkler , who happened , by some surprising accident , to be calling there . 
'How are you , Sparkler ? said Gowan carelessly . 
'When you have to live by your mother wit , old boy , I hope you may get on better than I do . 
Mr Dorrit then mentioned his proposal . 
'Sir , said Gowan , laughing , after receiving it gracefully enough , 'I am new to the trade , and not expert at its mysteries . 
But I have not been brought up to it , and it's too late to learn it . 
Now , the fact is , I am a very bad painter , but not much worse than the generality . 
This tone , though not what he had expected , on the whole suited Mr Dorrit remarkably well . 
It showed that the gentleman , highly connected , and not a mere workman , would be under an obligation to him . 
He expressed his satisfaction in placing himself in Mr Gowan's hands , and trusted that he would have the pleasure , in their characters of private gentlemen , of improving his acquaintance . 
'You are very good , said Gowan . 
, and am glad enough to smell the old fine gunpowder now and then , though it did blow me into mid air and my present calling . 
'Again you are very good , said Gowan . 
'Mr Dorrit , I hear you are going to Rome . 
I am going to Rome , having friends there . 
Let me begin to do you the injustice I have conspired to do you , there not here . 
These remarks were not less favourably received by Mr Dorrit than their predecessors . 
They were the prelude to the first reception of Mr and Mrs Gowan at dinner , and they skilfully placed Gowan on his usual ground in the new family . 
His wife , too , they placed on her usual ground . 
Mrs General likewise clearly understood that the attachment had occasioned much family grief and dissension . 
Little Dorrit's interest in the fair subject of this easily accepted belief was too earnest and watchful to fail in accurate observation . 
Nevertheless , there was a sympathetic understanding already established between the two , which would have carried them over greater difficulties , and made a friendship out of a more restricted intercourse . 
And there was a passive congeniality between them , besides this active one . 
The difference was too minute in its expression to be perceived by others , but they knew it to be there . 
It was as if he had said , 'I have a secret power in this quarter . 
I know what I know . 
Mrs Gowan was herself there for the same purpose , and he came upon the two together the rest of the family being out . 
The two had not been together five minutes , and the peculiar manner seemed to convey to them , 'You were going to talk about me . 
Ha ! Behold me here to prevent it ! 'Gowan is coming here ? said Blandois , with a smile . 
Mrs Gowan replied he was not coming . 
'Not coming ! said Blandois . 
'Permit your devoted servant , when you leave here , to escort you home . 
'Thank you I am not going home . 
'Not going home ! said Blandois . 
That he might be but he was not so forlorn as to roam away and leave them together . 
He sat entertaining them with his finest compliments , and his choicest conversation but he conveyed to them , all the time , 'No , no , no , dear ladies . 
But , if you will please to see if my boatman is there , I shall be obliged to you . 
It left him no choice but to go down before them . 
As he did so , hat in hand , Mrs Gowan whispered 'He killed the dog . 
'Does Mr Gowan know it ? Little Dorrit whispered . 
Don't look towards me look towards him . 
He will turn his face in a moment . 
No one knows it , but I am sure he did . 
You are ? 'I I think so , Little Dorrit answered . 
'Henry likes him , and he will not think ill of him he is so generous and open himself . 
But you and I feel sure that we think of him as he deserves . 
He argued with Henry that the dog had been already poisoned when he changed so , and sprang at him . 
Henry believes it , but we do not . 
I see he is listening , but can't hear . 
Little Dorrit had sometimes thought , and now thought again as she retraced her steps up the staircase , that he had made his way too easily into her father's house . 
But so many and such varieties of people did the same , through Mr Dorrit's participation in his elder daughter's society mania , that it was hardly an exceptional case . 
A perfect fury for making acquaintances on whom to impress their riches and importance , had seized the House of Dorrit . 
It appeared on the whole , to Little Dorrit herself , that this same society in which they lived , greatly resembled a superior sort of Marshalsea . 
They were brought into these foreign towns in the custody of couriers and local followers , just as the debtors had been brought into the prison . 
They prowled about the churches and picture galleries , much in the old , dreary , prison yard manner . 
They paid high for poor accommodation , and disparaged a place while they pretended to like it which was exactly the Marshalsea custom . 
They were envied when they went away by people left behind , feigning not to want to go and that again was the Marshalsea habit invariably . 
A certain set of words and phrases , as much belonging to tourists as the College and the Snuggery belonged to the jail , was always in their mouths . 
The period of the family's stay at Venice came , in its course , to an end , and they moved , with their retinue , to Rome . 
Here it seemed to Little Dorrit that a change came over the Marshalsea spirit of their society , and that Prunes and Prism got the upper hand . 
Everybody was walking about St Peter's and the Vatican on somebody else's cork legs , and straining every visible object through somebody else's sieve . 
Nobody said what anything was , but everybody said what the Mrs Generals , Mr Eustace , or somebody else said it was . 
Mrs General was in her pure element . 
There was a formation of surface going on around her on an amazing scale , and it had not a flaw of courage or honest free speech in it . 
Another modification of Prunes and Prism insinuated itself on Little Dorrit's notice very shortly after their arrival . 
'So delighted , said Mrs Merdle , 'to resume an acquaintance so inauspiciously begun at Martigny . 
'At Martigny , of course , said Fanny . 
'Charmed , I am sure ! 'I understand , said Mrs Merdle , 'from my son Edmund Sparkler , that he has already improved that chance occasion . 
He has returned quite transported with Venice . 
'Indeed ? returned the careless Fanny . 
'Oh , pray don't speak of it , returned Fanny . 
'I believe Papa had the pleasure of inviting Mr Sparkler twice or thrice , but it was nothing . 
We had so many people about us , and kept such open house , that if he had that pleasure , it was less than nothing . 
The bosom received this tribute in its most engaging manner . 
'Mr Merdle , observed Fanny , as a means of dismissing Mr Sparkler into the background , 'is quite a theme of Papa's , you must know , Mrs Merdle . 
'I have been ha disappointed , madam , said Mr Dorrit , 'to understand from Mr Sparkler that there is no great hum probability of Mr Merdle's coming abroad . 
'Why , indeed , said Mrs Merdle , 'he is so much engaged and in such request , that I fear not . 
He has not been able to get abroad for years . 
You , Miss Dorrit , I believe have been almost continually abroad for a long time . 
'Oh dear yes , drawled Fanny , with the greatest hardihood . 
'An immense number of years . 
'So I should have inferred , said Mrs Merdle . 
It is an honour I particularly desire and shall particularly esteem . 
'Mr Merdle , said Mrs Merdle , who had been looking admiringly at Fanny through her eye glass , 'will esteem it , I am sure , no less . 
Little Dorrit , still habitually thoughtful and solitary though no longer alone , at first supposed this to be mere Prunes and Prism . 
to plunder him , and at the best of confiscating his property after a short term of enjoyment , as though invention were on a par with felony . 
Daniel Doyce faced his condition with its pains and penalties attached to it , and soberly worked on for the work's sake . 
Clennam cheering him with a hearty co operation , was a moral support to him , besides doing good service in his business relation . 
The concern prospered , and the partners were fast friends . 
But Daniel could not forget the old design of so many years . 
To show no sympathy with so much endeavour , and so much disappointment , would have been to fail in what Clennam regarded as among the implied obligations of his partnership . 
A revival of the passing interest in the subject which had been by chance awakened at the door of the Circumlocution Office , originated in this feeling . 
He asked his partner to explain the invention to him 'having a lenient consideration , he stipulated , 'for my being no workman , Doyce . 
'No workman ? said Doyce . 
'You would have been a thorough workman if you had given yourself to it . 
You have as good a head for understanding such things as I have met with . 
'A totally uneducated one , I am sorry to add , said Clennam . 
'I don't know that , returned Doyce , 'and I wouldn't have you say that . 
No man of sense who has been generally improved , and has improved himself , can be called quite uneducated as to anything . 
I don't particularly favour mysteries . 
I would as soon , on a fair and clear explanation , be judged by one class of man as another , provided he had the qualification I have named . 
'Well ! said Daniel , in his steady even way , 'I'll try to make it so . 
His manner of demonstration was so orderly and neat and simple , that it was not easy to mistake him . 
His dismissal of himself from his description , was hardly less remarkable . 
Not only that evening , but for several succeeding evenings , Clennam was quite charmed by this investigation . 
'And pretty fellows too ! said Clennam , bitterly . 
'The usual thing ! observed Doyce . 
'I must not make a martyr of myself , when I am one of so large a company . 
'Relinquish it , or begin it all over again ? mused Clennam . 
'That was exactly the long and the short of it , said Doyce . 
Far better put it by . 
It will be heard of , one day . 
I can put it by . 
You forget , my good Clennam I HAVE put it by . 
It's all at an end . 
'Yes , Doyce , returned Clennam , 'at an end as far as your efforts and rebuffs are concerned , I admit , but not as far as mine are . 
I am younger than you I have only once set foot in that precious office , and I am fresh game for them . 
Come ! I'll try them . 
You shall do exactly as you have been doing since we have been together . 
to what I have been doing , the attempt to get public justice done to you and , unless I have some success to report , you shall hear no more of it . 
Daniel Doyce was still reluctant to consent , and again and again urged that they had better put it by . 
But it was natural that he should gradually allow himself to be over persuaded by Clennam , and should yield . 
So Arthur resumed the long and hopeless labour of striving to make way with the Circumlocution Office . 
Here arises a feature of the Circumlocution Office , not previously mentioned in the present record . 
done by the Circumlocution Office . 
, and thirty two thousand five hundred and seventeen memoranda . 
while of tape red tape it had used enough to stretch , in graceful festoons , from Hyde Park Corner to the General Post Office . 
Then , amidst a burst of official exultation , would the noble or right honourable Barnacle sit down , leaving the mutilated fragments of the Member on the field . 
Regular visits to his mother's dull sick room , and visits scarcely less regular to Mr Meagles at Twickenham , were its only changes during many months . 
He sadly and sorely missed Little Dorrit . 
He had been prepared to miss her very much , but not so much . 
He knew to the full extent only through experience , what a large place in his life was left blank when her familiar little figure went out of it . 
When he received her letter he was greatly moved , but did not the less sensibly feel that she was far divided from him by more than distance . 
It helped him to a clearer and keener perception of the place assigned him by the family . 
He saw that he was cherished in her grateful remembrance secretly , and that they resented him with the jail and the rest of its belongings . 
Through all these meditations which every day of his life crowded about her , he thought of her otherwise in the old way . 
She was his innocent friend , his delicate child , his dear Little Dorrit . 
He regarded her from a point of view which in its remoteness , tender as it was , he little thought would have been unspeakable agony to her . 
His relations with her father and mother were like those on which a widower son in law might have stood . 
This imperceptibly helped to render habitual the impression within him , that he had done with , and dismissed that part of life . 
Mr Meagles had never been quite so radiant since the marriage as before . 
He had never quite recovered the separation from Pet . 
She descended , in her shady ambuscade of green fan , to favour Mr and Mrs Meagles with a call . 
'And how do you both do , Papa and Mama Meagles ? said she , encouraging her humble connections . 
'And the dear pretty one ? said Mrs Gowan . 
I am sure , said Mrs Gowan , without straining her attention on the answers she received , 'it's an unspeakable comfort to know they continue happy . 
I suppose they're as poor as mice , Papa Meagles ? Mr Meagles , fidgety under the question , replied , 'I hope not , ma'am . 
I hope they will manage their little income . 
How can you talk about their managing their little means ? My poor dear fellow ! The idea of his managing hundreds ! And the sweet pretty creature too . 
This again went to the former point , and showed Mr Meagles with all good breeding that , so far , he had been brilliantly successful in his deep designs . 
Mrs Gowan thought the hit so good a one , that she dwelt upon it repeating 'Not everything . 
No , no in this world we must not expect everything , Papa Meagles . 
'And may I ask , ma'am , retorted Mr Meagles , a little heightened in colour , 'who does expect everything ? 'Oh , nobody , nobody ! said Mrs Gowan . 
'I was going to say but you put me out . 
'Ah ! Yes , to be sure ! said Mrs Gowan . 
'You must remember that my poor fellow has always been accustomed to expectations . 
They may have been realised , or they may not have been realised 'Let us say , then , may not have been realised , observed Mr Meagles . 
The Dowager for a moment gave him an angry look but tossed it off with her head and her fan , and pursued the tenor of her way in her former manner . 
My poor fellow has been accustomed to that sort of thing , and of course you knew it , and were prepared for the consequences . 
I myself always clearly foresaw the consequences , and am not surprised . 
And you must not be surprised . 
In fact , can't be surprised . 
Must have been prepared for it . 
Mr Meagles looked at his wife and at Clennam bit his lip and coughed . 
Only don't talk of anticipating means , Papa Meagles , as a discovery because that would be too much . 
'Too much , ma'am ? said Mr Meagles , as seeking an explanation . 
'There , there ! said Mrs Gowan , putting him in his inferior place with an expressive action of her hand . 
'Too much for my poor fellow's mother to bear at this time of day . 
They are fast married , and can't be unmarried . 
There , there ! I know that ! You needn't tell me that , Papa Meagles . 
I know it very well . 
What was it I said just now ? That it was a great comfort they continued happy . 
It is to be hoped they will still continue happy . 
It is to be hoped Pretty One will do everything she can to make my poor fellow happy , and keep him contented . 
Papa and Mama Meagles , we had better say no more about it . 
We never did look at this subject from the same side , and we never shall . 
There , there ! Now I am good . 
'Mrs Gowan , ma'am , said Mr Meagles , 'I have been a plain man all my life . 
If I was to try no matter whether on myself , on somebody else , or both any genteel mystifications , I should probably not succeed in them . 
'Mama Meagles , observed Mrs Gowan , 'your good man is incomprehensible . 
Her turning to that worthy lady was an artifice to bring her into the discussion , quarrel with her , and vanquish her . 
Mr Meagles interposed to prevent that consummation . 
'Mother , said he , 'you are inexpert , my dear , and it is not a fair match . 
Let me beg of you to remain quiet . 
Come , Mrs Gowan , come ! Let us try to be sensible let us try to be good natured let us try to be fair . 
Don't you pity Henry , and I won't pity Pet . 
And don't be one sided , my dear madam it's not considerate , it's not kind . 
'but let us hope they will make each other happy . 
'Yes , sure , and there leave it , father , said Mrs Meagles the kind hearted and comfortable . 
'Why , mother , no , returned Mr Meagles , 'not exactly there . 
I can't quite leave it there I must say just half a dozen words more . 
Mrs Gowan , I hope I am not over sensitive . 
I believe I don't look it . 
'Indeed you do not , said Mrs Gowan , shaking her head and the great green fan together , for emphasis . 
'Thank you , ma'am that's well . 
'Say what you like , answered Mrs Gowan . 
'It is perfectly indifferent to me . 
'No , no , don't say that , urged Mr Meagles , 'because that's not responding amiably . 
I feel a little hurt when I hear references made to consequences having been foreseen , and to its being too late now , and so forth . 
'Do you , Papa Meagles ? said Mrs Gowan . 
'I am not responsible , said Mrs Gowan , 'for your conscience , you know . 
Poor Mr Meagles looked aghast with astonishment . 
It's as much as to state , you begin . 
If you please , I will finish the sentence . 
'Mother ! cried Mr Meagles . 
Some moments passed in silence , before Mr Meagles could hold himself in his chair with sufficient security to prevent his breaking out of it at the next word he spoke . 
'O , my dear sir ! said Mrs Gowan , smiling and shaking her head with accusatory intelligence , 'they were well understood by me , I assure you . 
'I never , ma'am , said Mr Meagles , 'knew unhappiness before that time , I never knew anxiety before that time . 
It was a time of such distress to me that That Mr Meagles could really say no more about it , in short , but passed his handkerchief before his Face . 
'I understood the whole affair , said Mrs Gowan , composedly looking over her fan . 
'As you have appealed to Mr Clennam , I may appeal to Mr Clennam , too . 
He knows whether I did or not . 
I have very strong reasons indeed , for entertaining that wish . 
Mrs Gowan attributed certain views of furthering the marriage to my friend here , in conversation with me before it took place and I endeavoured to undeceive her . 
to be strenuously opposed to it , both in opinion and action . 
'You see ? Very good ! Now Papa and Mama Meagles both ! here she rose 'allow me to take the liberty of putting an end to this rather formidable controversy . 
I will not say another word upon its merits . 
Mr Meagles was beginning , 'Permit me to say , ma'am 'No , don't , returned Mrs Gowan . 
'Why should you ! It is an ascertained fact . 
I will therefore , if you please , go my way , leaving you to yours . 
I shall at all times be happy to receive my poor fellow's pretty wife , and I shall always make a point of being on the most affectionate terms with her . 
But as to these terms , semi family and semi stranger , semi goring and semi boring , they form a state of things quite amusing in its impracticability . 
I assure you it never does . 
The Dowager here made a smiling obeisance , rather to the room than to any one in it , and therewith took a final farewell of Papa and Mama Meagles . 
, was best known to herself . 
Though this history has its opinion on that point too , and decidedly in the affirmative . 
That elegant connection of ours that dear lady who was here yesterday 'I understand , said Arthur . 
'Even that affable and condescending ornament of society , pursued Mr Meagles , 'may misrepresent us , we are afraid . 
We could bear a great deal , Arthur , for her sake but we think we would rather not bear that , if it was all the same to her . 
You see , don't you ? 'Yes , indeed , returned Arthur , 'there is much reason in what you say . 
'So we are very much disposed , are Mother and I , said Mr Meagles , 'to pack up bags and baggage and go among the Allongers and Marshongers once more . 
I mean , we are very much disposed to be off , strike right through France into Italy , and see our Pet . 
, 'that you could do better . 
And if you ask me for my advice , it is that you set off to morrow . 
'Is it really , though ? said Mr Meagles . 
'Mother , this is being backed in an idea ! Mother , with a look which thanked Clennam in a manner very agreeable to him , answered that it was indeed . 
It may be as well , even on this account , that I should step over there , and look him up in a friendly way . 
about Pet's state of health , and that she should not be left to feel lonesome at the present time . 
It's undeniably a long way off , Arthur , and a strange place for the poor love under all the circumstances . 
Let her be as well cared for as any lady in that land , still it is a long way off . 
'All perfectly true , observed Arthur , 'and all sufficient reasons for going . 
'I am glad you think so it decides me . 
Mother , my dear , you may get ready . 
, and you must pull me through it , Mother , as well as you can . 
I require a deal of pulling through , Arthur , said Mr Meagles , shaking his head , 'a deal of pulling through . 
I stick at everything beyond a noun substantive and I stick at him , if he's at all a tight one . 
'Now I think of it , returned Clennam , 'there's Cavalletto . 
He shall go with you , if you like . 
I could not afford to lose him , but you will bring him safe back . 
'Well ! I am much obliged to you , my boy , said Mr Meagles , turning it over , 'but I think not . 
No , I think I'll be pulled through by Mother . 
is so necessary to you , that I don't like the thought of taking him away . 
More than that , there's no saying when we may come home again and it would never do to take him away for an indefinite time . 
The cottage is not what it was . 
It only holds two little people less than it ever did , Pet , and her poor unfortunate maid Tattycoram but it seems empty now . 
Once out of it , there's no knowing when we may come back to it . 
No , Arthur , I'll be pulled through by Mother . 
They would do best by themselves perhaps , after all , Clennam thought therefore did not press his proposal . 
As he had a liking for the spot , he seldom let a week pass without paying a visit . 
On one of his visits Mrs Tickit received him with the words , 'I have something to tell you , Mr Clennam , that will surprise you . 
'What is it , Mrs Tickit ? said he . 
'You don't mean Tatty 'Coram yes I do ! quoth Mrs Tickit , clearing the disclosure at a leap . 
I was not sleeping , nor what a person would term correctly , dozing . 
I was more what a person would strictly call watching with my eyes closed . 
Without entering upon an inquiry into this curious abnormal condition , Clennam said , 'Exactly . 
Well ? 'Well , sir , proceeded Mrs Tickit , 'I was thinking of one thing and thinking of another . 
just as you yourself might . 
'Precisely so , said Clennam . 
They will do it , sir , and a person can't prevent them . 
Arthur subscribed to this discovery with a nod . 
'You find it so yourself , sir , I'll be bold to say , said Mrs Tickit , 'and we all find it so . 
Not of the family in the present times only , but in the past times too . 
He nodded again afraid to utter a word , lest it should present any new opening to Mrs Tickit's conversational powers . 
But , sir , when I quivered my eyes again , and saw that it wasn't there , then it all flooded upon me with a fright , and I jumped up . 
'You ran out directly ? said Clennam . 
His dress and general appearance were those of a man on travel , and he seemed to have very recently joined the girl . 
, listening to whatever she said to him , he looked over his shoulder with the suspicious glance of one who was not unused to be mistrustful that his footsteps might be dogged . 
It was then that Clennam saw his face as his eyes lowered on the people behind him in the aggregate , without particularly resting upon Clennam's face or any other . 
, when he was again as suddenly brought up as he had been by the stoppage . 
They turned short into the Adelphi , the girl evidently leading , and went straight on , as if they were going to the Terrace which overhangs the river . 
There is always , to this day , a sudden pause in that place to the roar of the great thoroughfare . 
The many sounds become so deadened that the change is like putting cotton in the ears , or having the head thickly muffled . 
Such was the hour when Clennam stopped at the corner , observing the girl and the strange man as they went down the street . 
The man's footsteps were so noisy on the echoing stones that he was unwilling to add the sound of his own . 
When he rounded the dark corner , they were walking along the terrace towards a figure which was coming towards them . 
When they came together , the man took off his hat , and made Miss Wade a bow . 
When they came down to the corner and turned , she was saying , 'If I pinch myself for it , sir , that is my business . 
Confine yourself to yours , and ask me no question . 
'By Heaven , ma'am ! he replied , making her another bow . 
'It was my profound respect for the strength of your character , and my admiration of your beauty . 
'I want neither the one nor the other from any one , said she , 'and certainly not from you of all creatures . 
Go on with your report . 
'Am I pardoned ? he asked , with an air of half abashed gallantry . 
'You are paid , she said , 'and that is all you want . 
Whether the girl hung behind because she was not to hear the business , or as already knowing enough about it , Clennam could not determine . 
They turned and she turned . 
She looked away at the river , as she walked with her hands folded before her and that was all he could make of her without showing his face . 
When Miss Wade and the man came back again , she was saying , 'You must wait until to morrow . 
'A thousand pardons ? he returned . 
'My faith ! Then it's not convenient to night ? 'No . 
I tell you I must get it before I can give it to you . 
She stopped in the roadway , as if to put an end to the conference . 
He of course stopped too . 
'It's a little inconvenient , said the man . 
But , Holy Blue ! that's nothing in such a service . 
I am without money to night , by chance . 
I have a good banker in this city , but I would not wish to draw upon the house until the time when I shall draw for a round sum . 
'Harriet , said Miss Wade , 'arrange with him this gentleman here for sending him some money to morrow . 
She said it with a slur of the word gentleman which was more contemptuous than any emphasis , and walked slowly on . 
The man bent his head again , and the girl spoke to him as they both followed her . 
Clennam ventured to look at the girl as they Moved away . 
A loud and altered clank upon the pavement warned him , before he could discern what was passing there , that the man was coming back alone . 
The whole vista had no one in it now but himself . 
The lounger had lounged out of view , and Miss Wade and Tattycoram were gone . 
He rightly judged that , at first at all events , they would go in a contrary direction from their late companion . 
He soon saw them in a neighbouring bye street , which was not a thoroughfare , evidently allowing time for the man to get well out of their way . 
They walked leisurely arm in arm down one side of the street , and returned on the opposite side . 
When they came back to the street corner , they changed their pace for the pace of people with an object and a distance before them , and walked steadily away . 
Clennam , no less steadily , kept them in sight . 
, and slanted away north east , until they passed the great building whence Tattycoram derived her name , and turned into the Gray's Inn Road . 
Clennam was quite at home here , in right of Flora , not to mention the Patriarch and Pancks , and kept them in view with ease . 
He was beginning to wonder where they might be going next , when that wonder was lost in the greater wonder with which he saw them turn into the Patriarchal street . 
That wonder was in its turn swallowed up on the greater wonder with which he saw them stop at the Patriarchal door . 
After looking at the surrounding objects for assurance that he was not in an odd dream , and after pacing a little while before the house , Arthur knocked at the door . 
It was opened by the usual maid servant , and she showed him up at once , with her usual alacrity , to Flora's sitting room . 
While pursuing this routine , she looked at Clennam with an expression of such intense severity that he felt obliged to look at her in return , against his personal inclinations . 
'She is in Italy , with all her family , Flora , he said , when the dreaded lady was occupied again . 
Arthur tried to edge a word in , but Flora hurried on again . 
Some one whom I saw come in , and who , in a misguided and deplorable way , has deserted the house of a friend of mine . 
With those words and a parting glance , Flora bustled out , leaving Clennam under dreadful apprehension of this terrible charge . 
The first variation which manifested itself in Mr F. 's Aunt's demeanour when she had finished her piece of toast , was a loud and prolonged sniff . 
'None of your eyes at me , said Mr F. 's Aunt , shivering with hostility . 
'That' was the crust of the piece of toast . 
But for the timely return of Flora , to find him in this difficult situation , further consequences might have ensued . 
Flora , without the least discomposure or surprise , but congratulating the old lady in an approving manner on being 'very lively to night' , handed her back to her chair . 
'He has a proud stomach , this chap , said Mr F. 's relation , on being reseated . 
'Give him a meal of chaff ! 'Oh ! I don't think he would like that , aunt , returned Flora . 
'Give him a meal of chaff , I tell you , said Mr F. 's Aunt , glaring round Flora on her enemy . 
'It's the only thing for a proud stomach . 
Let him eat up every morsel . 
The youthful Patriarch , aged ten , looked out of his picture frame above him with no calmer air than he . 
Both smooth heads were alike beaming , blundering , and bumpy . 
'Mr Clennam , I am glad to see you . 
I hope you are well , sir , I hope you are well . 
Please to sit down , please to sit down . 
'I had hoped , sir , said Clennam , doing so , and looking round with a face of blank disappointment , 'not to find you alone . 
'Ah , indeed ? said the Patriarch , sweetly . 
'Ah , indeed ? 'I told you so you know papa , cried Flora . 
'Ah , to be sure ! returned the Patriarch . 
Ah , to be sure ! 'Pray , sir , 'demanded Clennam , anxiously , 'is Miss Wade gone ? 'Miss ? Oh , you call her Wade , returned Mr Casby . 
Arthur quickly returned , 'What do you call her ? 'Wade , said Mr Casby . 
'Really , really ? returned the Patriarch . 
A fine full coloured young woman , Mr Clennam , with very dark hair and very dark eyes . 
If I mistake not , if I mistake not ? Arthur assented , and said once more with new expression , 'If you would be so good as to give me the address . 
'Dear , dear , dear ! exclaimed the Patriarch in sweet regret . 
'Tut , tut , tut ! what a pity , what a pity ! I have no address , sir . 
Miss Wade mostly lives abroad , Mr Clennam . 
fitful and uncertain to a fault , Mr Clennam . 
I may not see her again for a long , long time . 
I may never see her again . 
Could you give me any account of her whatever ? 'None , returned the Patriarch , shaking his big head with his utmost benevolence . 
'Truly , assented the Patriarch , with a shining face as he philanthropically smiled at the fire , 'none at all , sir . 
You hit the wise answer , Mr Clennam . 
Truly , none at all , sir . 
So there Casby sat , twirling and twirling , and making his polished head and forehead look largely benevolent in every knob . 
Mr Pancks and he shook hands , and the former brought his employer a letter or two to sign . 
of Flora , he sauntered in the neighbourhood on Mr Pancks's line of road . 
He had waited but a short time when Mr Pancks appeared . 
Therefore he said , without any preface 'I suppose they were really gone , Pancks ? 'Yes , replied Pancks . 
'Does he know where to find that lady ? 'Can't say . 
Mr Pancks did not ? No , Mr Pancks did not . 
Did Mr Pancks know anything about her ? 'I expect , rejoined that worthy , 'I know as much about her as she knows about herself . 
She is somebody's child anybody's nobody's . 
Put her in a room in London here with any six people old enough to be her parents , and her parents may be there for anything she knows . 
She knows nothing about 'em . 
She knows nothing about any relative whatever . 
'Mr Casby could enlighten her , perhaps ? 'May be , said Pancks . 
'I expect so , but don't know . 
in trust to dole out to her when she can't do without it . 
Sometimes she's proud and won't touch it for a length of time sometimes she's so poor that she must have it . 
She writhes under her life . 
A woman more angry , passionate , reckless , and revengeful never lived . 
She came for money to night . 
Said she had peculiar occasion for it . 
'I think , observed Clennam musing , 'I by chance know what occasion I mean into whose pocket the money is to go . 
'If it's a compact , I recommend that party to be exact in it . 
Arthur , hurriedly reviewing his own observation of her , found it to tally pretty nearly with Mr Pancks's view . 
'The wonder is to me , pursued Pancks , 'that she has never done for my proprietor , as the only person connected with her story she can lay hold of . 
Mentioning that , I may tell you , between ourselves , that I am sometimes tempted to do for him myself . 
He had been able to make no more of it and no less of it , and in this unsatisfactory condition he was fain to leave it . 
During this space he had not been to his mother's dismal old house . 
It always affected his imagination as wrathful , mysterious , and sad and his imagination was sufficiently impressible to see the whole neighbourhood under some tinge of its dark shadow . 
As he went along , upon a dreary night , the dim streets by which he went , seemed all depositories of oppressive secrets . 
Its close air was secret . 
The gloom , and must , and dust of the whole tenement , were secret . 
When that moment had flashed away , he saw that the man striding on before him was the man who had been so much in his mind during the last few days . 
It was no casual resemblance , helped out by the force of the impression the man made upon him . 
It was the man the man he had followed in company with the girl , and whom he had overheard talking to Miss Wade . 
went down it so fast that Clennam lost him as he looked at him . 
On turning it , he saw the man no more . 
Standing now , close to the gateway of his mother's house , he looked down the street but it was empty . 
Nevertheless , he concluded that the man must have had a key in his hand , and must have opened one of the many house doors and gone in . 
Ruminating on this strange chance and strange glimpse , he turned into the court yard . 
Clennam's surprise was not so absorbing but that he took his resolution without any incertitude . 
He went up to the door too , and ascended the steps too . 
His friend looked at him with a braggart air , and sang to himself . 
'Who passes by this road so late ? Compagnon de la Majolaine Who passes by this road so late ? Always gay ! After which he knocked again . 
'You are impatient , sir , said Arthur . 
'Not you sure ? Ah , Lord save us ! No , she cried out , seeing the other . 
'Him again ! 'It's true ! Him again , dear Mrs Flintwinch , cried the stranger . 
'Fetch him ! cried the stranger . 
The stranger , without ceremony , walked into the hall , leaving Arthur to follow him . 
'Despatch then ! Achieve then ! Bring my Flintwinch ! Announce me to my lady ! cried the stranger , clanking about the stone floor . 
The visitor followed him up stairs . 
Mistress Affery took the key from behind the door , and deftly slipped out to fetch her lord . 
A bystander , informed of the previous appearance of Monsieur Blandois in that room , would have observed a difference in Mrs Clennam's present reception of him . 
Her face was not one to betray it and her suppressed manner , and her set voice , were equally under her control . 
Arthur did not fail to observe this though the difference between the present occasion and the former was not within his power of observation . 
'Madame , said Blandois , 'do me the honour to present me to Monsieur , your son . 
It appears to me , madame , that Monsieur , your son , is disposed to complain of me . 
'But you are not , said his mother , without looking at him . 
'Unfortunately for the gratification of your unreasonable temper , you are not the master , Arthur . 
'I make no claim to be , mother . 
'In the case of objection being necessary , she returned , 'I could object for myself . 
And of course I should . 
The subject of their dispute , who had seated himself , laughed aloud , and rapped his legs with his hand . 
, because he does not conform to your standard , or square his behaviour by your rules . 
It is possible that the gentleman may , on similar grounds , object to you . 
'I hope so , returned Arthur . 
'The gentleman , pursued Mrs Clennam , 'on a former occasion brought a letter of recommendation to us from highly esteemed and responsible correspondents . 
I am perfectly unacquainted with the gentleman's object in coming here at present . 
It can be nothing else . 
'We shall see , madame ! said the man of business . 
'We shall see , she assented . 
'The gentleman is acquainted with Flintwinch and when the gentleman was in London last , I remember to have heard that he and Flintwinch had some entertainment or good fellowship together . 
He laughed again , and whistled the burden of the tune he had sung at the door . 
I say so to the gentleman . 
You will not say so , I know therefore I say it for myself and Flintwinch , since with us two the gentleman's business lies . 
The key of the door below was now heard in the lock , and the door was heard to open and close . 
In due sequence Mr Flintwinch appeared on whose entrance the visitor rose from his chair , laughing loud , and folded him in a close embrace . 
'How goes it , my cherished friend ! said he . 
'I had a presentiment , last time , that we should be better and more intimately acquainted . 
Is it coming on you , Flintwinch ? Is it yet coming on ? 'Why , no , sir , retorted Mr Flintwinch . 
Hadn't you better be seated ? You have been calling for some more of that port , sir , I guess ? 'Ah , Little joker ! Little pig ! cried the visitor . 
'Ha ha ha ha ! And throwing Mr Flintwinch away , as a closing piece of raillery , he sat down again . 
The amazement , suspicion , resentment , and shame , with which Arthur looked on at all this , struck him dumb . 
, so Jeremiah never removed his from Arthur . 
It was as if they had tacitly agreed to take their different provinces . 
Thus , in the ensuing silence , Jeremiah stood scraping his chin and looking at Arthur as though he were trying to screw his thoughts out of him with an instrument . 
'Mother , I do so with reluctance . 
'Never mind with what , she returned , 'or with what not . 
Come back at any other time when you may consider it a duty to bury half an hour wearily here . 
He thought , then , that her cheek was more strained than usual , and that it was colder . 
'I leave your your business acquaintance in my mother's room , Mr Flintwinch , said Clennam , 'with a great deal of surprise and a great deal of unwillingness . 
The person referred to snapped his finger and thumb again . 
Bah ! What a poltroon , my Flintwinch ! Eh ? 'A cur , sir . 
But he wouldn't have done it , my Flintwinch , unless he had known them to have the will to silence him , without the power . 
The visitor saluted him with another parting snap , and his nose came down over his moustache and his moustache went up under his nose , in an ominous and ugly smile . 
'Don't ask me anything , Arthur . 
I've been in a dream for ever so long . 
Go away ! He went out , and she shut the door upon him . 
, I am now going to devote an hour to writing to you again . 
This time , I write from Rome . 
I dare say you know it . 
Now I am going to tell you all I can about them , because I know that is what you most want to hear . 
Well , it is a rather bare lodging up a rather dark common staircase , and it is nearly all a large dull room , where Mr Gowan paints . 
, I have had more opportunities of being with her since then than I might have had without this fortunate chance . 
She is very much alone . 
, to entertain her as he said to me when I came out , 'because he had a daughter of his own , though she was not so pretty . 
I ought now to mention Mr Gowan , before I say what little more I have to say about her . 
But don't be frightened , I am not going to try . 
to Mr Gowan's unsettled and dissatisfied way , he applies himself to his profession very little . 
He does nothing steadily or patiently but equally takes things up and throws them down , and does them , or leaves them undone , without caring about them . 
Then he goes into the country besides , to think about making sketches and in all places where there are visitors , he has a large acquaintance and is very well known . 
, that she does not like this friend . 
He is so revolting to me , too , that his being away from here , at present , is quite a relief to my mind . 
I believe she conceals them , and always will conceal them , even from herself . 
She has given him a heart that can never be taken back and however much he may try it , he will never wear out its affection . 
When she began to call me Amy , I told her my short story , and that you had always called me Little Dorrit . 
I told her that the name was much dearer to me than any other , and so she calls me Little Dorrit too . 
Perhaps you have not heard from her father or mother yet , and may not know that she has a baby son . 
He was born only two days ago , and just a week after they came . 
It has made them very happy . 
Yet I am sure they are both so considerate , good humoured , and reasonable , that he might spare them . 
It is hard in him not to think of them a little more . 
I stopped at the last full stop to read all this over . 
It looked at first as if I was taking on myself to understand and explain so much , that I was half inclined not to send it . 
Indeed , you may be sure that is the truth . 
And now I have done with the subject in the present letter , and have little left to say . 
We are all quite well , and Fanny improves every day . 
You can hardly think how kind she is to me , and what pains she takes with me . 
I was much confused by his speaking to me about it , but he would . 
I did not know what to say , but at last I told him that I thought he had better not . 
is much too spirited and clever to suit him . 
Still , he said he would , all the same . 
I have no lover , of course . 
I think it is indeed , but I don't know what to tell you . 
There is something melancholy in it , and I don't know why . 
My heart was so full that tears burst out of my eyes , though I did what I could to restrain them . 
And I have the same feeling often often . 
No , but that is not what I mean . 
I have always dreamed of myself as a child learning to do needlework . 
I have dreamed of going down to Mrs General , with the patches on my clothes in which I can first remember myself . 
Dear Mr Clennam , it is possible that I have thought of you and others so much by day , that I have no thoughts left to wander round you by night . 
I cannot bear to turn my face further away from it . 
My heart is a little lightened when we turn towards it , even for a few miles , and with the knowledge that we are soon to turn away again . 
So dearly do I love the scene of my poverty and your kindness . 
O so dearly , O so dearly ! Heaven knows when your poor child will see England again . 
, and there are no plans for our return . 
I have tried to get on a little better under Mrs General's instruction , and I hope I am not quite so dull as I used to be . 
I have begun to speak and understand , almost easily , the hard languages I told you about . 
I did not remember , at the moment when I wrote last , that you knew them both but I remembered it afterwards , and it helped me on . 
God bless you , dear Mr Clennam . 
Do not forget your ever grateful and affectionate LITTLE DORRIT . 
P. S. Particularly remember that Minnie Gowan deserves the best remembrance in which you can hold her . 
You cannot think too generously or too highly of her . 
I forgot Mr Pancks last time . 
Please , if you should see him , give him your Little Dorrit's kind regard . 
He was very good to Little D. CHAPTER In which a Great Patriotic Conference is holden The famous name of Merdle became , every day , more famous in the land . 
Nay , the high priests of this worship had the man before them as a protest against their meanness . 
The multitude worshipped on trust though always distinctly knowing why but the officiators at the altar had the man habitually in their view . 
They sat at his feasts , and he sat at theirs . 
When half a dozen of you fall out by the ears , it seems that mother earth can give birth to no other rulers . 
In Mrs Merdle's absence abroad , Mr Merdle still kept the great house open for the passage through it of a stream Of visitors . 
A few of these took affable possession of the establishment . 
Three or four ladies of distinction and liveliness used to say to one another , 'Let us dine at our dear Merdle's next Thursday . 
The Chief Butler , the Avenging Spirit of this great man's life , relaxed nothing of his severity . 
He was a hard man , and would never bate an ounce of plate or a bottle of wine . 
He would not allow a dinner to be given , unless it was up to his mark . 
He set forth the table for his own dignity . 
If the guests chose to partake of what was served , he saw no objection but it was served for the maintenance of his rank . 
As he stood by the sideboard he seemed to announce , 'I have accepted office to look at this which is now before me , and to look at nothing less than this . 
If he missed the presiding bosom , it was as a part of his own state of which he was , from unavoidable circumstances , temporarily deprived . 
just as he might have missed a centre piece , or a choice wine cooler , which had been sent to the Banker's . 
Mr Merdle issued invitations for a Barnacle dinner . 
It was understood to be a great occasion . 
Mr Merdle was going to take up the Barnacles . 
Mrs Merdle had shown him that the case of Edmund was urgent , and that infinite advantages might result from his having some good thing directly . 
In the grammar of Mrs Merdle's verbs on this momentous subject , there was only one mood , the Imperative and that Mood had only one Tense , the Present . 
Mrs Merdle's verbs were so pressingly presented to Mr Merdle to conjugate , that his sluggish blood and his long coat cuffs became quite agitated . 
Mr Merdle stood in one of his drawing rooms , with his back to the fire , waiting for the arrival of his important guests . 
He seldom or never took the liberty of standing with his back to the fire unless he was quite alone . 
In the presence of the Chief Butler , he could not have done such a deed . 
They were even more than sufficient , if his uncomfortable glances at them might be taken to mean anything . 
Mr Merdle's right hand was filled with the evening paper , and the evening paper was full of Mr Merdle . 
His wonderful enterprise , his wonderful wealth , his wonderful Bank , were the fattening food of the evening paper that night . 
The wonderful Bank , of which he was the chief projector , establisher , and manager , was the latest of the many Merdle wonders . 
Behold the vessels coming into port ! The engaging young Barnacle was the first arrival but Bar overtook him on the staircase . 
'If you don't know , how can I know ? You are in the innermost sanctuary of the temple I am one of the admiring concourse on the plain without . 
Bar could be light in hand , or heavy in hand , according to the customer he had to deal with . 
With Ferdinand Barnacle he was gossamer . 
Bar was likewise always modest and self depreciatory in his way . 
Bar was a man of great variety but one leading thread ran through the woof of all his patterns . 
Every man with whom he had to do was in his eyes a jury man and he must get that jury man over , if he could . 
So immensely astounded was Mr Merdle by the entrance of Bar with such a reference in his mouth , that Bar explained himself to have been quoting Gay . 
'Assuredly not one of our Westminster Hall authorities , said he , 'but still no despicable one to a man possessing the largely practical Mr Merdle's knowledge of the world . 
Mr Merdle looked as if he thought he would say something , but subsequently looked as if he thought he wouldn't . 
The interval afforded time for Bishop to be announced . 
Bishop had no idea that there was anything significant in the occasion . 
That was the most remarkable trait in his demeanour . 
He was crisp , fresh , cheerful , affable , bland but so surprisingly innocent . 
Bar sidled up to prefer his politest inquiries in reference to the health of Mrs Bishop . 
Mrs Bishop had been a little unfortunate in the article of taking cold at a Confirmation , but otherwise was well . 
Young Mr Bishop was also well . 
He was down , with his young wife and little family , at his Cure of Souls . 
The representatives of the Barnacle Chorus dropped in next , and Mr Merdle's physician dropped in next . 
Mr Tite Barnacle , who , like Dr johnson's celebrated acquaintance , had only one idea in his head and that was a wrong one , had appeared by this time . 
But now , Lord Decimus arrived . 
, put himself so far out of his way as to come up stairs with him and announce him . 
Lord Decimus , nevertheless , was glad to see the Member . 
When he had achieved this rush of vivacity and condescension , his Lordship composed himself into the picture after Cuyp , and made a third cow in the group . 
Bar , who felt that he had got all the rest of the jury and must now lay hold of the Foreman , soon came sidling up , double eye glass in hand . 
Bar tendered the weather , as a subject neatly aloof from official reserve , for the Foreman's consideration . 
, that there was to be no wall fruit this year . 
Lord Decimus had not heard anything amiss of his peaches , but rather believed , if his people were correct , he was to have no apples . 
No apples ? Bar was lost in astonishment and concern . 
By that time , Bar felt that he had secured the Foreman , and might go to dinner with a good appetite . 
It was a dinner to provoke an appetite , though he had not had one . 
Fortunately Lord Decimus was one of those sublimities who have no occasion to be talked to , for they can be at any time sufficiently occupied with the contemplation of their own greatness . 
This enabled the bashful young Member to keep his eyes open long enough at a time to see his dinner . 
But , whenever Lord Decimus spoke , he shut them again . 
The agreeable young Barnacle , and Bar , were the talkers of the party . 
Bishop would have been exceedingly agreeable also , but that his innocence stood in his way . 
He was so soon left behind . 
When there was any little hint of anything being in the wind , he got lost directly . 
Worldly affairs were too much for him he couldn't make them out at all . 
Ferdinand Barnacle laughed , and said oh yes , he believed so . 
A vote was a vote , and always acceptable . 
Bar was sorry to miss our good friend Mr Sparkler to day , Mr Merdle . 
'He is away with Mrs Merdle , returned that gentleman , slowly coming out of a long abstraction , in the course of which he had been fitting a tablespoon up his sleeve . 
'It is not indispensable for him to be on the spot . 
'The magic name of Merdle , said Bar , with the jury droop , 'no doubt will suffice for all . 
'Why yes I believe so , assented Mr Merdle , putting the spoon aside , and clumsily hiding each of his hands in the coat cuff of the other hand . 
'I believe the people in my interest down there will not make any difficulty . 
'Model people ! said Bar . 
'I am glad you approve of them , said Mr Merdle . 
They will return anybody I send to them for that purpose . 
'Cheering to know , said Bar . 
Ferdinand Barnacle laughed in his easy way , and airily said they were a nice set of fellows . 
Bishop , mentally perambulating among paths of peace , was altogether swallowed up in absence of mind . 
'Fixes ? repeated Lord Decimus , with a majestic pausing and pondering on the word that made the bashful Member shut his eyes quite tight . 
'Fixes ? 'A very perplexing business indeed , observed Mr Tite Barnacle , with an air of grave resentment . 
It was a triumph of public business , said this handsome young Barnacle , laughing heartily , 'You never saw such a lot of forms in your life . 
You are right , old fellow , I told him , and in future you'll know that we have something to do here . 
The pleasant young Barnacle finished by once more laughing heartily . 
He was a very easy , pleasant fellow indeed , and his manners were exceedingly winning . 
Mr Tite Barnacle's view of the business was of a less airy character . 
He took it ill that Mr Dorrit had troubled the Department by wanting to pay the money , and considered it a grossly informal thing to do after so many years . 
But Mr Tite Barnacle was a buttoned up man , and consequently a weighty one . 
All buttoned up men are weighty . 
All buttoned up men are believed in . 
Mr Tite Barnacle never would have passed for half his current value , unless his coat had been always buttoned up to his white cravat . 
'May I ask , said Lord Decimus , 'if Mr Darrit or Dorrit has any family ? Nobody else replying , the host said , 'He has two daughters , my lord . 
'Oh ! you are acquainted with him ? asked Lord Decimus . 
Mr Sparkler is , too . 
In fact , said Mr Merdle , 'I rather believe that one of the young ladies has made an impression on Edmund Sparkler . 
He is susceptible , and I think the conquest Here Mr Merdle stopped , and looked at the table cloth , as he usually did when he found himself observed or listened to . 
Bar was uncommonly pleased to find that the Merdle family , and this family , had already been brought into contact . 
He regarded this power of attraction in wealth to draw wealth to it , as something remarkably interesting and curious something indefinably allied to the loadstone and gravitation . 
Bishop , who had ambled back to earth again when the present theme was broached , acquiesced . 
was habitually exercised in harmony with the best interests of Society . 
, making a show of sitting at his feet and feeding on his precepts . 
After some delay , and several stretches of his wings which came to nothing , he soared to the drawing rooms . 
And here a difficulty arose , which always does arise when two people are specially brought together at a dinner to confer with one another . 
knew perfectly well that this dinner had been eaten and drunk , specifically to the end that Lord Decimus and Mr Merdle should have five minutes' conversation together . 
The opportunity so elaborately prepared was now arrived , and it seemed from that moment that no mere human ingenuity could so much as get the two chieftains into the same room . 
Mr Merdle and his noble guest persisted in prowling about at opposite ends of the perspective . 
It was in vain for the engaging Ferdinand to bring Lord Decimus to look at the bronze horses near Mr Merdle . 
Then Mr Merdle evaded , and wandered away . 
It was in vain for him to bring Mr Merdle to Lord Decimus to tell him the history of the unique Dresden vases . 
Then Lord Decimus evaded and wandered away , while he was getting his man up to the mark . 
'Did you ever see such a thing as this ? said Ferdinand to Bar when he had been baffled twenty times . 
'Unless I butt one of them into an appointed corner , and you butt the other , said Ferdinand , 'it will not come off after all . 
'Very good , said Bar . 
'I'll butt Merdle , if you like but not my lord . 
Ferdinand laughed , in the midst of his vexation . 
'Confound them both ! said he , looking at his watch . 
'I want to get away . 
Why the deuce can't they come together ! They both know what they want and mean to do . 
'Since you do me the honour , said Bar , with his slyest smile , to ask for my poor aid , it shall be yours with the greatest pleasure . 
I don't think this is to be done by one man . 
Now , the point was this . 
The Chorus were excessively nervous , perhaps as labouring under the dreadful apprehension that some good thing was going to be diverted from them ! Bishop alone talked steadily and evenly . 
Physician , as a general rule , was of opinion that the best way to avoid it was to know how to read , before you made a profession of reading . 
Bishop said dubiously , did he really think so ? And Physician said , decidedly , yes he did . 
In fact , within a quarter of an hour Lord Decimus called to him 'Ferdinand ! and he went , and took his place in the conference for some five minutes more . 
Then a half suppressed gasp broke out among the Chorus for Lord Decimus rose to take his leave . 
All the grave importance that was buttoned up in Mr Tite Barnacle , took itself away next and Ferdinand took himself away next , to the opera . 
Some of the rest lingered a little , marrying golden liqueur glasses to Buhl tables with sticky rings on the desperate chance of Mr Merdle's saying something . 
But Merdle , as usual , oozed sluggishly and muddily about his drawing room , saying never a word . 
But , if they had known that respectable Nemesis better , they would not have wondered about it , and might have stated the amount with the utmost precision . 
before the poison is communicable . 
It was deposited on every lip , and carried into every ear . 
There never was , there never had been , there never again should be , such a man as Mr Merdle . 
Nobody , as aforesaid , knew what he had done but everybody knew him to be the greatest that had appeared . 
Down in Bleeding Heart Yard , where there was not one unappropriated halfpenny , as lively an interest was taken in this paragon of men as on the Stock Exchange . 
That how she was as handsome a lady , ma'am , as lived , no matter wheres , and a busk like marble itself . 
So rife and potent was the fever in Bleeding Heart Yard , that Mr Pancks's rent days caused no interval in the patients . 
The disease took the singular form , on those occasions , of causing the infected to find an unfathomable excuse and consolation in allusions to the magic name . 
'Now , then ! Mr Pancks would say , to a defaulting lodger . 
'Pay up ! Come on ! 'I haven't got it , Mr Pancks , Defaulter would reply . 
'I tell you the truth , sir , when I say I haven't got so much as a single sixpence of it to bless myself with . 
'This won't do , you know , Mr Pancks would retort . 
'You don't expect it will do do you ? Defaulter would admit , with a low spirited 'No , sir , having no such expectation . 
'My proprietor isn't going to stand this , you know , Mr Pancks would proceed . 
'He don't send me here for this . 
Pay up ! Come ! The Defaulter would make answer , 'Ah , Mr Pancks . 
If I was the rich gentleman whose name is in everybody's mouth if my name was Merdle , sir I'd soon pay up , and be glad to do it . 
Dialogues on the rent question usually took place at the house doors or in the entries , and in the presence of several deeply interested Bleeding Hearts . 
'If I was Mr Merdle , sir , you wouldn't have cause to complain of me then . 
No , believe me ! the Defaulter would proceed with a shake of the head . 
'I'd pay up so quick then , Mr Pancks , that you shouldn't have to ask me . 
The response would be heard again here , implying that it was impossible to say anything fairer , and that this was the next thing to paying the money down . 
Mr Pancks would be now reduced to saying as he booked the case , 'Well ! You'll have the broker in , and be turned out that's what'll happen to you . 
It's no use talking to me about Mr Merdle . 
You are not Mr Merdle , any more than I am . 
'No , sir , the Defaulter would reply . 
'I only wish you were him , sir . 
The response would take this up quickly replying with great feeling , 'Only wish you were him , sir . 
'You'd be easier with us if you were Mr Merdle , sir , the Defaulter would go on with rising spirits , 'and it would be better for all parties . 
Better for our sakes , and better for yours , too . 
You wouldn't have to worry no one , then , sir . 
You wouldn't have to worry us , and you wouldn't have to worry yourself . 
You'd be easier in your own mind , sir , and you'd leave others easier , too , you would , if you were Mr Merdle . 
Mr Pancks , in whom these impersonal compliments produced an irresistible sheepishness , never rallied after such a charge . 
He could only bite his nails and puff away to the next Defaulter . 
Mr Pancks's object was not professional , but social . 
He had had a trying day , and wanted a little brightening . 
By this time he was on friendly terms with the Plornish family , having often looked in upon them at similar seasons , and borne his part in recollections of Miss Dorrit . 
Mrs Plornish's shop parlour had been decorated under her own eye , and presented , on the side towards the shop , a little fiction in which Mrs Plornish unspeakably rejoiced . 
the real door and window . 
, appeared the semblance of a brass plate , presenting the inscription , Happy Cottage , T. and M. Plornish the partnership expressing man and wife . 
No Poetry and no Art ever charmed the imagination more than the union of the two in this counterfeit cottage charmed Mrs Plornish . 
Warned of a visitor by the tinkling bell at the shop door , Mrs Plornish came out of Happy Cottage to see who it might be . 
You never heard father in such voice as he is at present , said Mrs Plornish , her own voice quavering , she was so proud and pleased . 
'He gave us Strephon last night to that degree that Plornish gets up and makes him this speech across the table . 
John Edward Nandy , says Plornish to father , I never heard you come the warbles as I have heard you come the warbles this night . 
Mr Pancks was then hospitably pressed into Happy Cottage , where he encountered the elder Master Plornish just come home from school . 
'And how are you getting on , Mrs Plornish , said Pancks , 'since we're mentioning millions ? 'Very steady , indeed , sir , returned Mrs Plornish . 
'It's quite true that the business is very steady indeed , said Mrs Plornish , lowering her voice 'and has a excellent connection . 
The only thing that stands in its way , sir , is the Credit . 
This drawback , rather severely felt by most people who engaged in commercial transactions with the inhabitants of Bleeding Heart Yard , was a large stumbling block in Mrs Plornish's trade . 
All three going into the shop , and watching through the window , then saw Mr Baptist , pale and agitated , go through the following extraordinary performances . 
He had gone no further up the street than he had gone down , when he crossed the road and disappeared . 
'Hallo , old chap ! said Mr Pancks . 
Nevertheless , Mrs Plornish , with a pardonable vanity in that accomplishment of hers which made her all but Italian , stepped in as interpreter . 
'Come there ! Mrs Plornish was proud of the title Padrona , which she regarded as signifying not so much Mistress of the house , as Mistress of the Italian tongue . 
She immediately complied with Mr Baptist's request , and they all went into the cottage . 
'E ope you no fright , said Mrs Plornish then , interpreting Mr Pancks in a new way with her usual fertility of resource . 
'What appen ? Peaka Padrona ! 'I have seen some one , returned Baptist . 
'Im ? Oo him ? asked Mrs Plornish . 
I have hoped that I should never see him again . 
'Ow you know him bad ? asked Mrs Plornish . 
'It does not matter , Padrona . 
I know it too well . 
''E see you ? asked Mrs Plornish . 
Once again I say it matters not . 
I have fear of this man . 
I do not wish to see him , I do not wish to be known of him never again ! Enough , most beautiful . 
Clennam had been poring late over his books and letters for the waiting rooms of the Circumlocution Office ravaged his time sorely . 
Over and above that , he was depressed and made uneasy by the late occurrence at his mother's . 
He looked worn and solitary . 
The news made a sensation in the cottage which drew off the general attention from Mr Baptist . 
She was particularly delighted when Clennam assured her that there were hospitals , and very kindly conducted hospitals , in Rome . 
Mr Pancks rose into new distinction in virtue of being specially remembered in the letter . 
Everybody was pleased and interested , and Clennam was well repaid for his trouble . 
'But you are tired , sir . 
'John Edward Nandy , said Mr Plornish , addressing the old gentleman . 
'Ask me to do a greater thing than that , said Pancks , 'when you want it done , and I'll do it . 
Between this eccentric personage and Clennam , a tacit understanding and accord had been always improving since Mr Pancks flew over Mr Rugg's back in the Marshalsea Yard . 
When the carriage drove away on the memorable day of the family's departure , these two had looked after it together , and had walked slowly away together . 
When the first letter came from little Dorrit , nobody was more interested in hearing of her than Mr Pancks . 
The second letter , at that moment in Clennam's breast pocket , particularly remembered him by name . 
All these strings intertwining made Pancks a very cable of anchorage that night . 
'I am quite alone , Arthur explained as they walked on . 
'My partner is away , busily engaged at a distance on his branch of our business , and you shall do just as you like . 
You didn't take particular notice of little Altro just now did you ? said Pancks . 
Why ? 'He's a bright fellow , and I like him , said Pancks . 
'Something has gone amiss with him to day . 
Have you any idea of any cause that can have overset him ? 'You surprise me ! None whatever . 
Mr Pancks gave his reasons for the inquiry . 
Arthur was quite unprepared for them , and quite unable to suggest an explanation of them . 
'Perhaps you'll ask him , said Pancks , 'as he's a stranger ? 'Ask him what ? returned Clennam . 
'What he has on his mind . 
'I ought first to see for myself that he has something on his mind , I think , said Clennam . 
, and so trustworthy , that it might look like suspecting him . 
And that would be very unjust . 
'But , I say ! You oughtn't to be anybody's proprietor , Mr Clennam . 
'For the matter of that , returned Clennam laughing , 'I have not a large proprietary share in Cavalletto . 
His carving is his livelihood . 
No ! I am rather his adviser than his proprietor . 
To call me his standing counsel and his banker would be nearer the fact . 
'What ventures ? 'These Merdle enterprises . 
'Oh ! Investments , said Pancks . 
'Ay , ay ! I didn't know you were speaking of investments . 
His quick way of replying caused Clennam to look at him , with a doubt whether he meant more than he said . 
They puffed for a while in silence , Mr Pancks like a steam vessel with wind , tide , calm water , and all other sea going conditions in her favour . 
He was the first to speak , and he spoke thus 'Yes . 
Clennam , with his former look , said 'Ah ! 'I am going back to it , you see , said Pancks . 
I see you are going back to it , returned Clennam , wondering why . 
'Wasn't it a curious thing that they should run in little Altro's head ? Eh ? said Pancks as he smoked . 
'Wasn't that how you put it ? 'That was what I said . 
'Ay ! But think of the whole Yard having got it . 
Think of their all meeting me with it , on my collecting days , here and there and everywhere . 
Whether they pay , or whether they don't pay . 
Merdle , Merdle , Merdle . 
'Very strange how these runs on an infatuation prevail , said Arthur . 
'An't it ? returned Pancks . 
After smoking for a minute or so , more drily than comported with his recent oiling , he added 'Because you see these people don't understand the subject . 
'Not a bit , assented Clennam . 
'Not a bit , cried Pancks . 
Know nothing of money questions . 
'If they had ? repeated Pancks in an inquiring tone . 
'I thought you spoke , said Arthur , hesitating what name to give the interruption . 
'Not at all , said Pancks . 
I may in a minute . 
If they had ? 'If they had , observed Clennam , who was a little at a loss how to take his friend , 'why , I suppose they would have known better . 
'How so , Mr Clennam ? Pancks asked quickly , and with an odd effect of having been from the commencement of the conversation loaded with the heavy charge he now fired off . 
'They're right , you know . 
They don't mean to be , but they're right . 
'Right in sharing Cavalletto's inclination to speculate with Mr Merdle ? 'Per fectly , sir , said Pancks . 
In those moments , Mr Pancks began to give out the dangerous infection with which he was laden . 
It is the manner of communicating these diseases it is the subtle way in which they go about . 
'Already done it , sir . 
Mr Pancks took another long inhalation , another long exhalation , another long sagacious look at Clennam . 
'I tell you , Mr Clennam , I've gone into it , said Pancks . 
'He's a man of immense resources enormous capital government influence . 
They're the best schemes afloat . 
'Well ! returned Clennam , looking first at him gravely and then at the fire gravely . 
'You surprise me ! 'Bah ! Pancks retorted . 
'Don't say that , sir . 
It came about in the simplest manner . 
'A hard case it has been , and a hard case it is on Doyce , he finished by saying , with all the honest feeling the topic roused in him . 
'Hard indeed , Pancks acquiesced . 
'But you manage for him , Mr Clennam ? 'How do you mean ? 'Manage the money part of the business ? 'Yes . 
As well as I can . 
'Manage it better , sir , said Pancks . 
'Recompense him for his toils and disappointments . 
Give him the chances of the time . 
He'll never benefit himself in that way , patient and preoccupied workman . 
He looks to you , sir . 
'I do my best , Pancks , returned Clennam , uneasily . 
'As to duly weighing and considering these new enterprises of which I have had no experience , I doubt if I am fit for it , I am growing old . 
'Growing old ? cried Pancks . 
'Growing old ? cried Pancks . 
Indeed , he was fearful of something happening to Mr Pancks in the violent conflict that took place between the breath he jerked out of himself and the smoke he jerked into himself . 
This abandonment of the second topic threw him on the third . 
Shall I tell you how this is ? Shall I put a great trust in you ? 'You shall , sir , said Pancks , 'if you believe me worthy of it . 
'You may ! Mr Pancks's short and sharp rejoinder , confirmed by the sudden outstretching of his coaly hand , was most expressive and convincing . 
Arthur shook the hand warmly . 
A man must be himself . 
'Be as rich as you can , sir , Pancks adjured him with a powerful concentration of all his energies on the advice . 
'Be as rich as you honestly can . 
Not for your sake , but for the sake of others . 
Take time by the forelock . 
Your relative depends upon you . 
You don't know what depends upon you . 
'Well , well , well ! returned Arthur . 
'One word more , Mr Clennam , retorted Pancks , 'and then enough for to night . 
When I say you , I mean such men as you . 
Why , I see it every day of my life . 
It's my business to see it . 
Therefore I say , urged Pancks , 'Go in and win ! 'But what of Go in and lose ? said Arthur . 
'Can't be done , sir , returned Pancks . 
'I have looked into it . 
Name up everywhere immense resources enormous capital great position high connection government influence . 
They said little more but were company to one another in silently pursuing the same subjects , and did not part until midnight . 
On taking his leave , Mr Pancks , when he had shaken hands with Clennam , worked completely round him before he steamed out at the door . 
He thought of Mr Pancks's being so sanguine in this matter , and of his not being usually of a sanguine character . 
He thought of the great National Department , and of the delight it would be to him to see Doyce better off . 
He thought of the darkly threatening place that went by the name of Home in his remembrance , and of the gathering shadows which made it yet more darkly threatening than of old . 
He began to think it was curious too that it should be everywhere , and that nobody but he should seem to have any mistrust of it . 
Though indeed he began to remember , when he got to this , even he did not mistrust it he had only happened to keep aloof from it . 
Such symptoms , when a disease of the kind is rife , are usually the signs of sickening . 
A few bilious Britons there were who would not subscribe to this article of faith but their objection was purely theoretical . 
In a practical point of view , they listlessly abandoned the matter , as being the business of some other Britons unknown , somewhere , or nowhere . 
Mrs Merdle circulated the news , as she received congratulations on it , with a careless grace that displayed it to advantage , as the setting displays the jewel . 
Yes , she said , Edmund had taken the place . 
Mr Merdle wished him to take it , and he had taken it . 
She hoped Edmund might like it , but really she didn't know . 
It would keep him in town a good deal , and he preferred the country . 
Still , it was not a disagreeable position and it was a position . 
There was no denying that the thing was a compliment to Mr Merdle , and was not a bad thing for Edmund if he liked it . 
It was just as well that he should have something to do , and it was just as well that he should have something for doing it . 
Whether it would be more agreeable to Edmund than the army , remained to be seen . 
Thus the Bosom accomplished in the art of seeming to make things of small account , and really enhancing them in the process . 
getting this post , and that would have been his getting it himself . 
He said it was the very thing for Sparkler . 
Nor did his benevolence stop here . 
Unless , indeed , it chanced to be doubted by the object of Mr Sparkler's affections . 
Miss Fanny was now in the difficult situation of being universally known in that light , and of not having dismissed Mr Sparkler , however capriciously she used him . 
'Dear Fanny , what is the matter ? Tell me . 
'Matter , you little Mole , said Fanny . 
'If you were not the blindest of the blind , you would have no occasion to ask me . 
'No , Miss Bat , it is not . 
Immediately afterwards , she became remorseful for having called her sister names declaring with sobs that she knew she made herself hateful , but that everybody drove her to it . 
'I don't think you are well to night , dear Fanny . 
'Stuff and nonsense ! replied the young lady , turning angry again 'I am as well as you are . 
Perhaps I might say better , and yet make no boast of it . 
Poor Little Dorrit , not seeing her way to the offering of any soothing words that would escape repudiation , deemed it best to remain quiet . 
, she didn't want to be forgiven . 
It was not a right example , that she should be constantly stooping to be forgiven by a younger sister . 
And this was the Art of it that she was always being placed in the position of being forgiven , whether she liked it or not . 
As the announcement was vague , though very peremptory , Little Dorrit returned , 'Let us talk about it . 
'Quite so , my dear , assented Fanny , as she dried her eyes . 
'Let us talk about it . 
I am rational again now , and you shall advise me . 
Will you advise me , my sweet child ? Even Amy smiled at this notion , but she said , 'I will , Fanny , as well as I can . 
'Thank you , dearest Amy , returned Fanny , kissing her . 
Having embraced her Anchor with great affection , Fanny took a bottle of sweet toilette water from the table , and called to her maid for a fine handkerchief . 
She then dismissed that attendant for the night , and went on to be advised dabbing her eyes and forehead from time to time to cool them . 
, to make it very probable that I shall surprise you by what I am going to say . 
What I am going to say , my dear , is , that notwithstanding our property , we labour , socially speaking , under disadvantages . 
You don't quite understand what I mean , Amy ? 'I have no doubt I shall , said Amy , mildly , 'after a few words more . 
'Well , my dear , what I mean is , that we are , after all , newcomers into fashionable life . 
'I am sure , Fanny , Little Dorrit interposed in her zealous admiration , 'no one need find that out in you . 
'Well , my dear child , perhaps not , said Fanny , 'though it's most kind and most affectionate in you , you precious girl , to say so . 
Here she dabbed her sister's forehead , and blew upon it a little . 
'But you are , resumed Fanny , 'as is well known , the dearest little thing that ever was ! To resume , my child . 
Uncle , my love , is altogether unpresentable . 
Though a dear creature to whom I am tenderly attached , he is , socially speaking , shocking . 
Edward is frightfully expensive and dissipated . 
'Poor Edward ! sighed Little Dorrit , with the whole family history in the sigh . 
And poor you and me , too , returned Fanny , rather sharply . 
'Very true ! Then , my dear , we have no mother , and we have a Mrs General . 
That woman , I am quite sure and confident , will be our mother in law . 
'I can hardly think , Fanny Fanny stopped her . 
'Now , don't argue with me about it , Amy , said she , 'because I know better . 
Feeling that she had been sharp again , she dabbed her sister's forehead again , and blew upon it again . 
'To resume once more , my dear . 
whether I shall make up my mind to take it upon myself to carry the family through . 
'How ? asked her sister , anxiously . 
Little Dorrit laid her hand upon the hand that held the bottle of sweet water , with a still more anxious look . 
Fanny , quite punishing her own forehead with the vehement dabs she now began to give it , fitfully went on . 
'That he has somehow or other , and how is of no consequence , attained a very good position , no one can deny . 
That it is a very good connection , no one can deny . 
And as to the question of clever or not clever , I doubt very much whether a clever husband would be suitable to me . 
I should not be able to defer to him enough . 
'O , my dear Fanny ! expostulated Little Dorrit , upon whom a kind of terror had been stealing as she perceived what her sister meant . 
'If you loved any one , all this feeling would change . 
If you loved any one , you would no more be yourself , but you would quite lose and forget yourself in your devotion to him . 
If you loved him , Fanny Fanny had stopped the dabbing hand , and was looking at her fixedly . 
'O , indeed ! cried Fanny . 
'Really ? Bless me , how much some people know of some subjects ! They say every one has a subject , and I certainly seem to have hit upon yours , Amy . 
There ! Now , I'll go back to myself . 
'Dear Fanny , let me say first , that I would far rather we worked for a scanty living again than I would see you rich and married to Mr Sparkler . 
'Let you say , my dear ? retorted Fanny . 
'Why , of course , I will let you say anything . 
There is no constraint upon you , I hope . 
We are together to talk it over . 
And as to marrying Mr Sparkler , I have not the slightest intention of doing so to night , my dear , or to morrow morning either . 
'But at some time ? 'At no time , for anything I know at present , answered Fanny , with indifference . 
'I am impatient of our situation . 
I don't like our situation , and very little would induce me to change it . 
Other girls , differently reared and differently circumstanced altogether , might wonder at what I say or may do . 
They are driven by their lives and characters I am driven by mine . 
'Fanny , my dear Fanny , you know that you have qualities to make you the wife of one very superior to Mr Sparkler . 
'Would you therefore forgive my asking , Fanny therefore marry her son ? 'Why , perhaps , said Fanny , with a triumphant smile . 
'There may be many less promising ways of arriving at an end than that , MY dear . 
That piece of insolence may think , now , that it would be a great success to get her son off upon me , and shelve me . 
But , perhaps , she little thinks how I would retort upon her if I married her son . 
I would oppose her in everything , and compete with her . 
I would make it the business of my life . 
Fanny set down the bottle when she came to this , and walked about the room always stopping and standing still while she spoke . 
'One thing I could certainly do , my child I could make her older . 
And I would ! This was followed by another walk . 
'I would talk of her as an old woman . 
I would pretend to know if I didn't , but I should from her son all about her age . 
And she should hear me say , Amy affectionately , quite dutifully and affectionately how well she looked , considering her time of life . 
I could make her seem older at once , by being myself so much younger . 
And I would be ! 'My dear sister , would you condemn yourself to an unhappy life for this ? 'It wouldn't be an unhappy life , Amy . 
It would be the life I am fitted for . 
Whether by disposition , or whether by circumstances , is no matter I am better fitted for such a life than for almost any other . 
There was something of a desolate tone in those words but , with a short proud laugh she took another walk , and after passing a great looking glass came to another stop . 
'Figure ! Figure , Amy ! Well . 
The woman has a good figure . 
I will give her her due , and not deny it . 
But is it so far beyond all others that it is altogether unapproachable ? Upon my word , I am not so sure of it . 
'Now , don't argue with me , child , she said in a sterner way , 'because it is of no use . 
I understand these subjects much better than you do . 
I have not nearly made up my mind , but it may be . 
Now we have talked this over comfortably , and may go to bed . 
You best and dearest little mouse , Good night ! With those words Fanny weighed her Anchor , and having taken so much advice left off being advised for that occasion . 
Thenceforward , Amy observed Mr Sparkler's treatment by his enslaver , with new reasons for attaching importance to all that passed between them . 
There were times when Fanny appeared quite unable to endure his mental feebleness , and when she became so sharply impatient of it that she would all but dismiss him for good . 
There were other times when she got on much better with him when he amused her , and when her sense of superiority seemed to counterbalance that opposite side of the scale . 
Mrs Merdle , during these passages , said little to Fanny , but said more about her . 
Mr Sparkler , as if in attendance to some compact , scarcely ever spoke without first looking towards Fanny for leave . 
That young lady was too discreet ever to look back again but , if Mr Sparkler had permission to speak , she remained silent if he had not , she herself spoke . 
Moreover , it became plain whenever Henry Gowan attempted to perform the friendly office of drawing him out , that he was not to be drawn . 
There was yet another circumstance which went a long way to confirm Little Dorrit in her fears , though it was not a great circumstance in itself . 
Mr Sparkler's demeanour towards herself changed . 
Little Dorrit was at home one day , thinking about Fanny with a heavy heart . 
Seated thus one day , she was softly touched on the shoulder , and Fanny said , 'Well , Amy dear , and took her seat at her side . 
But there was no procession that day , and Little Dorrit was rather surprised by Fanny's being at home at that hour , as she was generally out on horseback then . 
'Well , Amy , said Fanny , 'what are you thinking of , little one ? 'I was thinking of you , Fanny . 
'No ? What a coincidence ! I declare here's some one else . 
You were not thinking of this some one else too were you , Amy ? Amy HAD been thinking of this some one else too for it was Mr Sparkler . 
She did not say so , however , as she gave him her hand . 
Mr Sparkler came and sat down on the other side of her , and she felt the fraternal railing come behind her , and apparently stretch on to include Fanny . 
'No , my love , said Mr Sparkler . 
'In short , pet , proceeded Fanny , 'on the whole , we are engaged . 
We must tell papa about it either to night or to morrow , according to the opportunities . 
Then it's done , and very little more need be said . 
'My dear Fanny , said Mr Sparkler , with deference , 'I should like to say a word to Amy . 
'Well , well ! Say it for goodness' sake , returned the young lady . 
Pray go on to something else besides our having no nonsense about us . 
'Yes , my love , said Mr Sparkler . 
'My love , you're quite right , said Mr Sparkler , 'and I know I have a habit of it . 
'A knife and fork and an apartment , proceeded Mr Sparkler , growing , in comparison with his oratorical antecedents , quite diffuse , 'will ever be at Amy's disposal . 
My Governor , I am sure , will always be proud to entertain one whom I so much esteem . 
And regarding my mother , said Mr Sparkler , 'who is a remarkably fine woman , with 'Edmund , Edmund ! cried Miss Fanny , as before . 
'With submission , my soul , pleaded Mr Sparkler . 
'That may be , or may not be , returned Fanny , 'but pray don't mention it any more . 
'I will not , my love , said Mr Sparkler . 
'Then , in fact , you have nothing more to say , Edmund have you ? inquired Fanny . 
'So far from it , my adorable girl , answered Mr Sparkler , 'I apologise for having said so much . 
He did not go without being congratulated by Amy , as well as she could discharge that office in the flutter and distress of her spirits . 
When he was gone , she said , 'O Fanny , Fanny ! and turned to her sister in the bright window , and fell upon her bosom and cried there . 
Fanny laughed at first but soon laid her face against her sister's and cried too a little . 
It was the last time Fanny ever showed that there was any hidden , suppressed , or conquered feeling in her on the matter . 
From that hour the way she had chosen lay before her , and she trod it with her own imperious self willed step . 
Mrs Merdle also , as a leading lady rich in distinction , elegance , grace , and beauty , he mentioned in very laudatory terms . 
He concluded with some further and more general observations on the ha character of an independent gentleman , and the hum character of a possibly too partial and admiring parent . 
To sum the whole up shortly , he received Mr Sparkler's offer very much as he would have received three or four half crowns from him in the days that were gone . 
At that point the object of his affections shut him up like a box with a spring lid , and sent him away . 
Proceeding shortly afterwards to pay his respects to the Bosom , Mr Dorrit was received by it with great consideration . 
Mrs Merdle had heard of this affair from Edmund . 
She had been surprised at first , because she had not thought Edmund a marrying man . 
Society had not thought Edmund a marrying man . 
That was very gratifying to Mr Dorrit . 
'Personally , repeated Mrs Merdle , 'charmed . 
At the mention of gentlemen whom Society called capitalists , Mr Dorrit had coughed , as if some internal demur were breaking out of him . 
Mrs Merdle had observed it , and went on to take up the cue . 
I am a very child as to having any notion of business , said Mrs Merdle 'but I am afraid , Mr Dorrit , it may have that tendency . 
'You are generosity itself , said Mrs Merdle in return , smiling her best smile 'let us hope so . 
But I confess I am almost superstitious in my ideas about business . 
Mrs Merdle laughed , and conveyed to Mr Dorrit an idea that the Bosom flushed which was one of her best effects . 
'I say so much , she then explained , 'merely because Mr Merdle has always taken the greatest interest in Edmund , and has always expressed the strongest desire to advance his prospects . 
Edmund's public position , I think you know . 
His private position rests solely with Mr Merdle . 
In my foolish incapacity for business , I assure you I know no more . 
Mr Dorrit again expressed , in his own way , the sentiment that business was below the ken of enslavers and enchantresses . 
He then mentioned his intention , as a gentleman and a parent , of writing to Mr Merdle . 
Nevertheless , he did render the purport of his letter sufficiently clear , to enable Mr Merdle to make a decent pretence of having learnt it from that source . 
Mr Merdle replied to it accordingly . 
Mr Dorrit replied to Mr Merdle Mr Merdle replied to Mr Dorrit and it was soon announced that the corresponding powers had come to a satisfactory understanding . 
Now , and not before , Miss Fanny burst upon the scene , completely arrayed for her new part . 
Now and not before , she wholly absorbed Mr Sparkler in her light , and shone for both , and twenty more . 
'I am tired of Mrs General . 
'Tired , repeated Mr Dorrit in reproachful astonishment , 'of ha Mrs General . 
'Quite disgusted with her , papa , said Fanny . 
'I really don't see what she has to do with my marriage . 
Let her keep to her own matrimonial projects if she has any . 
And that if she has not , so much the better but still I don't wish to have the honour of making announcements to her . 
'Permit me to ask you , Fanny , said Mr Dorrit , 'why not ? 'Because she can find my engagement out for herself , papa , retorted Fanny . 
'She is watchful enough , I dare say . 
I think I have seen her so . 
Let her find it out for herself . 
If she should not find it out for herself , she will know it when I am married . 
And I hope you will not consider me wanting in affection for you , papa , if I say it strikes me that will be quite enough for Mrs General . 
'Fanny , returned Mr Dorrit , 'I am amazed , I am displeased by this hum this capricious and unintelligible display of animosity towards ha Mrs General . 
'Do not , if you please , papa , urged Fanny , 'call it animosity , because I assure you I do not consider Mrs General worth my animosity . 
At this , Mr Dorrit rose from his chair with a fixed look of severe reproof , and remained standing in his dignity before his daughter . 
His daughter , turning the bracelet on her arm , and now looking at him , and now looking from him , said , 'Very well , papa . 
I am truly sorry if you don't like it but I can't help it . 
I am not a child , and I am not Amy , and I must speak . 
I hope I may have my thoughts upon the subject , however , for I really cannot help it under the circumstances . 
Mr Tinkler , unused to receive such short orders in connection with the fair varnisher , paused . 
'Don't tell me you did . 
You are guilty of mockery , sir . 
'I assure you , sir Mr Tinkler began . 
'Don't assure me ! said Mr Dorrit . 
'I will not be assured by a domestic . 
You are guilty of mockery . 
You shall leave me hum the whole establishment shall leave me . 
What are you waiting for ? 'Only for my orders , sir . 
'It's false , said Mr Dorrit , 'you have your orders . 
MY compliments to Mrs General , and I beg the favour of her coming to me , if quite convenient , for a few minutes . 
In his execution of this mission , Mr Tinkler perhaps expressed that Mr Dorrit was in a raging fume . 
However that was , Mrs General's skirts were very speedily heard outside , coming along one might almost have said bouncing along with unusual expedition . 
Albeit , they settled down at the door and swept into the room with their customary coolness . 
'Mrs General , said Mr Dorrit , 'take a chair . 
Mrs General , with a graceful curve of acknowledgment , descended into the chair which Mr Dorrit offered . 
That my daughter Fanny is ha contracted to be married to Mr Sparkler , with whom you are acquainted . 
Hence , madam , you will be relieved of half your difficult charge ha difficult charge . 
Mr Dorrit repeated it with his angry eye on Fanny . 
'But not , I hope , to the hum diminution of any other portion , direct or indirect , of the footing you have at present the kindness to occupy in my family . 
'Mr Dorrit , returned Mrs General , with her gloved hands resting on one another in exemplary repose , 'is ever considerate , and ever but too appreciative of my friendly services . 
'Miss Dorrit has no doubt exercised the soundest discretion of which the circumstances admitted , and I trust will allow me to offer her my sincere congratulations . 
I trust Miss Dorrit will allow me to offer her my best congratulations . 
Here Mrs General stopped , and added internally , for the setting of her face , 'Papa , potatoes , poultry , Prunes , and prism . 
My thanks , and my congratulations , are equally the meed of Mr Dorrit and of Miss Dorrit . 
'To me , observed Miss Fanny , 'they are excessively gratifying inexpressibly so . 
The relief of finding that you have no objection to make , Mrs General , quite takes a load off my mind , I am sure . 
I hardly know what I should have done , said Fanny , 'if you had interposed any objection , Mrs General . 
Mrs General changed her gloves , as to the right glove being uppermost and the left undermost , with a Prunes and Prism smile . 
I am sure your great kindness will not object , and I hope papa will not object , to my correcting a small mistake you have made , however . 
The best of us are so liable to mistakes , that even you , Mrs General , have fallen into a little error . 
The merit of having consulted you on the subject would have been so great in me , that I feel I must not lay claim to it when it really is not mine . 
I am deeply obliged to you for your encouragement and patronage , but it was papa who asked for it . 
I hope you will always approve of my proceedings after I have left home and that my sister also may long remain the favoured object of your condescension , Mrs General . 
found Miss Fanny vastly improved by her engagement . 
Enjoying the flutter she caused . 
Mr Sparkler , unable to resist the agonised cry from the depths of his country's soul , declared that he must go . 
It followed that the question was rendered pressing when , where , and how Mr Sparkler should be married to the foremost girl in all this world with no nonsense about her . 
Its solution , after some little mystery and secrecy , Miss Fanny herself announced to her sister . 
'Now , my child , said she , seeking her out one day , 'I am going to tell you something . 
It is only this moment broached and naturally I hurry to you the moment it IS broached . 
'Your marriage , Fanny ? 'My precious child , said Fanny , 'don't anticipate me . 
Let me impart my confidence to you , you flurried little thing , in my own way . 
As to your guess , if I answered it literally , I should answer no . 
For really it is not my marriage that is in question , half as much as it is Edmund's . 
Little Dorrit looked , and perhaps not altogether without cause , somewhat at a loss to understand this fine distinction . 
'I am in no difficulty , exclaimed Fanny , 'and in no hurry . 
I am not wanted at any public office , or to give any vote anywhere else . 
And Edmund is deeply dejected at the idea of going away by himself , and , indeed , I don't like that he should be trusted by himself . 
For , if it's possible and it generally is to do a foolish thing , he is sure to do it . 
'It is far more Edmund's question , therefore , than mine . 
However , we need say no more about that . 
That is self evident on the face of it . 
'What a little thing you are , cried Fanny , half tolerant and half impatient , 'for anticipating one ! Pray , my darling , hear me out . 
That woman being out of the way , I don't know that I greatly object to Mr Merdle's proposal to Pa that Edmund and I should take up our abode in that house . 
you know where you once went with a dancer , my dear , until our own house can be chosen and fitted up . 
Mr Merdle has entreated Pa to stay with him in that same mansion I have mentioned , and I suppose he will . 
The difference between papa's being master of his own actions and Mr Sparkler's being nothing of the sort , was forcibly expressed by Fanny in her manner of stating the case . 
Not that her sister noticed it for she was divided between regret at the coming separation , and a lingering wish that she had been included in the plans for visiting England . 
'And these are the arrangements , Fanny dear ? 'Arrangements ! repeated Fanny . 
'Now , really , child , you are a little trying . 
You know I particularly guarded myself against laying my words open to any such construction . 
What I said was , that certain questions present themselves and these are the questions . 
Little Dorrit's thoughtful eyes met hers , tenderly and quietly . 
'Now , my own sweet girl , said Fanny , weighing her bonnet by the strings with considerable impatience , 'it's no use staring . 
A little owl could stare . 
I look to you for advice , Amy . 
'I don't think anything of the kind . 
Here , she threw her bonnet from her altogether , and flounced into a chair . 
But , becoming affectionate almost immediately , she flounced out of it again , and kneeled down on the floor to take her sister , chair and all , in her arms . 
'Don't suppose I am hasty or unkind , darling , because I really am not . 
But you are such a little oddity ! You make one bite your head off , when one wants to be soothing beyond everything . 
Didn't I tell you , you dearest baby , that Edmund can't be trusted by himself ? And don't you know that he can't ? 'Yes , yes , Fanny . 
You said so , I know . 
'And you know it , I know , retorted Fanny . 
'Not that I contemplate doing without You , Amy , by any means , for I hope we shall ever be next to inseparable . 
And now , my pet , I am going to give you a word of advice . 
When you are left alone here with Mrs General 'I am to be left alone here with Mrs General ? said Little Dorrit , quietly . 
She will if she can . 
I know her sly manner of feeling her way with those gloves of hers . 
But don't you comprehend her on any account . 
, my advice to you is , that you say at once , Papa , I beg to object most strongly . 
Fanny cautioned me about this , and she objected , and I object . 
I don't expect you to stand by it indeed , I know you won't , Pa being concerned but I wish to rouse you to a sense of duty . 
As to any help from me , or as to any opposition that I can offer to such a match , you shall not be left in the lurch , my love . 
of Mrs General ! Little Dorrit received this counsel without venturing to oppose it but without giving Fanny any reason to believe that she intended to act upon it . 
Having now , as it were , formally wound up her single life and arranged her worldly affairs , Fanny proceeded with characteristic ardour to prepare for the serious change in her condition . 
it declines to give a French one . 
Through all such dangers , however , it was triumphantly brought , inch by inch , and arrived at its journey's end in fine condition . 
There it was exhibited to select companies of female viewers , in whose gentle bosoms it awakened implacable feelings . 
Concurrently , active preparations were made for the day on which some of its treasures were to be publicly displayed . 
, to grace the occasion . 
The best hotel and all its culinary myrmidons , were set to work to prepare the feast . 
The drafts of Mr Dorrit almost constituted a run on the Torlonia Bank . 
The British Consul hadn't had such a marriage in the whole of his Consularity . 
The day came , and the She Wolf in the Capitol might have snarled with envy to see how the Island Savages contrived these things now a days . 
The choked old fountain , where erst the gladiators washed , might have leaped into life again to honour the ceremony . 
The Temple of Vesta might have sprung up anew from its ruins , expressly to lend its countenance to the occasion . 
Might have done but did not . 
Like sentient things even like the lords and ladies of creation sometimes might have done much , but did nothing . 
But by that time the Bride was near the end of the first day's journey towards Florence . 
It was the peculiarity of the nuptials that they were all Bride . 
Nobody noticed the first Bridesmaid . 
for the glare , even supposing many to have sought her . 
Other nuptial carriages are said to have gone the same road , before and since . 
But that was not to be thought of now , when they sat in the state equipage with Mrs General on the coach box . 
He was sententious and didactic that night . 
Mrs General at length retired . 
Her retirement for the night was always her frostiest ceremony , as if she felt it necessary that the human imagination should be chilled into stone to prevent its following her . 
When she had gone through her rigid preliminaries , amounting to a sort of genteel platoon exercise , she withdrew . 
Little Dorrit then put her arm round her father's neck , to bid him good night . 
'Amy , my dear , said Mr Dorrit , taking her by the hand , 'this is the close of a day , that has ha greatly impressed and gratified me . 
Little Dorrit was glad to find him in such heart , and smiled from her own heart . 
'My dear , he continued , 'this is an occasion ha teeming with a good example . 
With a good example , my favourite and attached child hum to you . 
Little Dorrit , fluttered by his words , did not know what to say , though he stopped as if he expected her to say something . 
My love , I trust that the time is not far distant when some ha eligible partner may be found for you . 
'Oh no ! Let me stay with you . 
I beg and pray that I may stay with you ! I want nothing but to stay and take care of you ! She said it like one in sudden alarm . 
'Nay , Amy , Amy , said Mr Dorrit . 
'This is weak and foolish , weak and foolish . 
You have a ha responsibility imposed upon you by your position . 
It is to develop that position , and be hum worthy of that position . 
As to taking care of me I can ha take care of myself . 
I positively say I cannot do it . 
I ha must not do it . 
My hum conscience would not allow it . 
But , as I know your loving and dutiful nature from hum from experience , I am quite satisfied that it is necessary to say no more . 
I have hum no husband to propose at present , my dear I have not even one in view . 
I merely wish that we should ha understand each other . 
Good night , my dear and sole remaining daughter . 
They sat in their equipage of state , with Mrs General on the box , for three weeks longer , and then he started for Florence to join Fanny . 
CHAPTER Getting on The newly married pair , on their arrival in Harley Street , Cavendish Square , London , were received by the Chief Butler . 
That great man was not interested in them , but on the whole endured them . 
People must continue to be married and given in marriage , or Chief Butlers would not be wanted . 
As nations are made to be taxed , so families are made to be butlered . 
The Chief Butler , no doubt , reflected that the course of nature required the wealthy population to be kept up , on his account . 
, and not as a committal of himself with the family . 
Mr Merdle was slinking about the hearthrug , waiting to welcome Mrs Sparkler . 
about four times as valuable as the present formerly made by Mrs Merdle to her . 
She was now established in Mrs Merdle's own rooms , to which some extra touches had been given to render them more worthy of her occupation . 
Happy ? Fanny must have been happy . 
No more wishing one's self dead now . 
The Courier had not approved of Mr Dorrit's staying in the house of a friend , and had preferred to take him to an hotel in Brook Street , Grosvenor Square . 
Mr Merdle ordered his carriage to be ready early in the morning that he might wait upon Mr Dorrit immediately after breakfast . 
Bright the carriage looked , sleek the horses looked , gleaming the harness looked , luscious and lasting the liveries looked . 
A rich , responsible turn out . 
An equipage for a Merdle . 
Then , forth from its magnificent case came the jewel not lustrous in itself , but quite the contrary . 
Commotion in the office of the hotel . 
Merdle ! The landlord , though a gentleman of a haughty spirit who had just driven a pair of thorough bred horses into town , turned out to show him up stairs . 
The clerks and servants cut him off by back passages , and were found accidentally hovering in doorways and angles , that they might look upon him . 
So were the sick brought out and laid in the track of the Apostle who had NOT got into the good society , and had NOT made the money . 
Mr Dorrit , dressing gowned and newspapered , was at his breakfast . 
The Courier , with agitation in his voice , announced 'Miss Mairdale ! Mr Dorrit's overwrought heart bounded as he leaped up . 
'Mr Merdle , this is ha indeed an honour . 
Permit me to express the hum sense , the high sense , I entertain of this ha hum highly gratifying act of attention . 
I am well aware , sir , of the many demands upon your time , and its ha enormous value , Mr Dorrit could not say enormous roundly enough for his own satisfaction . 
'That you should ha at this early hour , bestow any of your priceless time upon me , is ha a compliment that I acknowledge with the greatest esteem . 
Mr Dorrit positively trembled in addressing the great man . 
'You are very kind , said Mr Dorrit . 
By this time the visitor was seated , and was passing his great hand over his exhausted forehead . 
'You are well , I hope , Mr Merdle ? 'I am as well as I yes , I am as well as I usually am , said Mr Merdle . 
'Your occupations must be immense . 
But Oh dear no , there's not much the matter with me , said Mr Merdle , looking round the room . 
'A little dyspeptic ? Mr Dorrit hinted . 
But I Oh , I am well enough , said Mr Merdle . 
This , and his heavy way of passing his hand over his forehead , had prompted Mr Dorrit's solicitous inquiries . 
She was looking wonderfully well when I quitted it . 
'Mrs Merdle , said Mr Merdle , 'is generally considered a very attractive woman . 
And she is , no doubt . 
I am sensible of her being SO . 
'Who can be otherwise ? responded Mr Dorrit . 
Both in face and figure , she is quite uncommon . 
When the young people arrived last night , I was really surprised to see such charms . 
And he offered his hand . 
Mr Dorrit was enraptured by these attentions . 
'Do you stay long , sir ? 'I have not at present the intention , said Mr Dorrit , 'of ha exceeding a fortnight . 
'That's a very short stay , after so long a journey , returned Mr Merdle . 
Yes , said Mr Dorrit . 
'Well , sir , said Mr Merdle , after turning his tongue again , 'if I can be of any use to you in that respect , you may command me . 
Mr Dorrit's speech had had more hesitation in it than usual , as he approached the ticklish topic , for he was not perfectly clear how so exalted a potentate might take it . 
He had doubts whether reference to any individual capital , or fortune , might not seem a wretchedly retail affair to so wholesale a dealer . 
Greatly relieved by Mr Merdle's affable offer of assistance , he caught at it directly , and heaped acknowledgments upon him . 
'I scarcely ha dared , said Mr Dorrit , 'I assure you , to hope for so hum vast an advantage as your direct advice and assistance . 
Though of course I should , under any circumstances , like the ha , hum rest of the civilised world , have followed in Mr Merdle's train . 
Very handsome , indeed ! cried Mr Dorrit . 
Unless at a high price . 
At what we are accustomed to term a very long figure . 
Mr Dorrit laughed in the buoyancy of his spirit . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Long figure . 
'And public spirit and genius , Mr Dorrit suggested . 
Mr Merdle , with a dry , swallowing action , seemed to dispose of those qualities like a bolus then added , 'As a sort of return for it . 
I will see , if you please , how I can exert this limited power , to your advantage . 
'You are very good , replied Mr Dorrit . 
Mr Dorrit hailed these generous sentiments with fervour . 
'Therefore , said Mr Merdle , 'I can only give you a preference to a certain extent . 
To a defined extent , observed Mr Dorrit . 
As to my advice , however , said Mr Merdle , 'that is another matter . 
That , there is nothing in the bonds of spotless honour between myself and my fellow man to prevent my parting with , if I choose . 
And that , said Mr Merdle , now deeply intent upon a dust cart that was passing the windows , 'shall be at your command whenever you think proper . 
New acknowledgments from Mr Dorrit . 
New passages of Mr Merdle's hand over his forehead . 
Contemplation of Mr Dorrit's waistcoat buttons by Mr Merdle . 
Can I take you anywhere , sir ? I shall be happy to set you down , or send you on . 
My carriage is at your disposal . 
Mr Dorrit bethought himself that he had business at his banker's . 
His banker's was in the City . 
That was fortunate Mr Merdle would take him into the City . 
But , surely , he might not detain Mr Merdle while he assumed his coat ? Yes , he might and must Mr Merdle insisted on it . 
So Mr Dorrit , retiring into the next room , put himself under the hands of his valet , and in five minutes came back glorious . 
Then said Mr Merdle , 'Allow me , sir . 
There Mr Merdle insisted on alighting and going his way a foot , and leaving his poor equipage at Mr Dorrit's disposition . 
Next day , and the day after , and every day , all graced by more dinner company , cards descended on Mr Dorrit like theatrical snow . 
As the friend and relative by marriage of the illustrious Merdle , Bar , Bishop , Treasury , Chorus , Everybody , wanted to make or improve Mr Dorrit's acquaintance . 
, the name of Dorrit was always a passport to the great presence of Merdle . 
So the dream increased in rapture every hour , as Mr Dorrit felt increasingly sensible that this connection had brought him forward indeed . 
Only one thing sat otherwise than auriferously , and at the same time lightly , on Mr Dorrit's mind . 
It was the Chief Butler . 
That stupendous character looked at him , in the course of his official looking at the dinners , in a manner that Mr Dorrit considered questionable . 
He looked at him , as he passed through the hall and up the staircase , going to dinner , with a glazed fixedness that Mr Dorrit did not like . 
Seated at table in the act of drinking , Mr Dorrit still saw him through his wine glass , regarding him with a cold and ghostly eye . 
It misgave him that the Chief Butler must have known a Collegian , and must have seen him in the College perhaps had been presented to him . 
He looked as closely at the Chief Butler as such a man could be looked at , and yet he did not recall that he had ever seen him elsewhere . 
Ultimately he was inclined to think that there was no reverence in the man , no sentiment in the great creature . 
, when one of the servants of the hotel presented himself bearing a card . 
Mr Dorrit , taking it , read 'Mrs Finching . 
The servant waited in speechless deference . 
'Man , man , said Mr Dorrit , turning upon him with grievous indignation , 'explain your motive in bringing me this ridiculous name . 
I am wholly unacquainted with it . 
Finching , sir ? said Mr Dorrit , perhaps avenging himself on the Chief Butler by Substitute . 
'I know no such lady , sir , said Mr Dorrit . 
I know no Finching of either sex . 
'Ask your pardon , sir . 
The lady said she was aware she might be unknown by name . 
But she begged me to say , sir , that she had formerly the honour of being acquainted with Miss Dorrit . 
The lady said , sir , the youngest Miss Dorrit . 
Hence the concession , and hence the appearance of Flora , piloted in by the man , man . 
Place a chair , sir . 
The responsible man , with a start , obeyed , and went out on tiptoe . 
Flora , putting aside her veil with a bashful tremor upon her , proceeded to introduce herself . 
Mr Dorrit stood rooted to the carpet , a statue of mystification . 
I should not have permitted it . 
Mr Dorrit backed to his chair in a stony way , and seated himself , as Flora gave him a softening look and played with her parasol . 
Mr Dorrit , without greatly regarding the earnestness of these latter words , repeated , 'State your pleasure , madam . 
It happened , fortunately for the elucidation of any intelligible result , that Mr Dorrit had heard or read nothing about the matter . 
This , with exact particulars of time and locality , and with a good detailed description of the foreign gentleman who had so mysteriously vanished , Mr Dorrit read at large . 
'Blandois ! said Mr Dorrit . 
'Venice ! And this description ! I know this gentleman . 
He has been in my house . 
, of whom I am a hum patron . 
I see the name mentioned here , in connection with the occupation of the house which Monsieur Blandois was seen to enter who is Clennam and Co . 
a hum a mother ! exclaimed Mr Dorrit . 
'And an old man besides , said Flora . 
Mr Dorrit looked as if he must immediately be driven out of his mind by this account . 
By that time Mr Dorrit had so far recovered from his bewilderment , as to be able to say , in a tolerably connected manner , that he should consider that his duty . 
Flora was delighted with her success , and rose to take her leave . 
He wrote and sent off a brief note excusing himself for that day , and ordered dinner presently in his own rooms at the hotel . 
He had another reason for this . 
He therefore resolved that he would take advantage of that evening's freedom to go down to Clennam and Co . 
's , easily to be found by the direction set forth in the handbill and see the place , and ask a question or two there himself . 
The deep bell of St Paul's was striking nine as he passed under the shadow of Temple Bar , headless and forlorn in these degenerate days . 
Many long years had passed since he had seen it he had never known much of it and it wore a mysterious and dismal aspect in his eyes . 
Truly , it looked as gloomy that night as even it had ever looked . 
A watch was evidently kept upon the place . 
As there was only one house in the enclosure , there was no room for uncertainty , so he went up the steps of that house and knocked . 
There was a dim light in two windows on the first floor . 
They both came to the door , and a chain grated , and a woman with her apron thrown over her face and head stood in the aperture . 
'Who is it ? said the woman . 
Mr Dorrit , much amazed by this appearance , replied that he was from Italy , and that he wished to ask a question relative to the missing person , whom he knew . 
'Hi ! cried the woman , raising a cracked voice . 
'Jeremiah ! Upon this , a dry old man appeared , whom Mr Dorrit thought he identified by his gaiters , as the rusty screw . 
The woman was Under apprehensions of the dry old man , for she whisked her apron away as he approached , and disclosed a pale affrighted face . 
'Open the door , you fool , said the old man 'and let the gentleman in . 
Mr Dorrit , not without a glance over his shoulder towards his driver and the cabriolet , walked into the dim hall . 
'Now , sir , said Mr Flintwinch , 'you can ask anything here you think proper there are no secrets here , sir . 
Before a reply could be made , a strong stern voice , though a woman's , called from above , 'Who is it ? 'Who is it ? returned Jeremiah . 
'Bring him up here ! Mr Flintwinch muttered , as if he deemed that unnecessary but , turning to Mr Dorrit , said , 'Mrs Clennam . 
She will do as she likes . 
I'll show you the way . 
Mrs Clennam had her books open on her little table . 
'Oh ! said she abruptly , as she eyed her visitor with a steady look . 
'You are from Italy , sir , are you . 
'Unfortunately for us , there is none to be got here . 
Flintwinch , show the gentleman the handbill . 
Give him several to take away . 
Hold the light for him to read it . 
While his eyes were on the paper , he felt that the eyes of Mr Flintwinch and of Mrs Clennam were on him . 
He found , when he looked up , that this sensation was not a fanciful one . 
'Now you know as much , said Mrs Clennam , 'as we know , sir . 
Is Mr Blandois a friend of yours ? 'No a hum an acquaintance , answered Mr Dorrit . 
'You have no commission from him , perhaps ? 'I ? Ha . 
The searching look turned gradually to the floor , after taking Mr Flintwinch's face in its way . 
Mr Dorrit , discomfited by finding that he was the questioned instead of the questioner , applied himself to the reversal of that unexpected order of things . 
'I am ha a gentleman of property , at present residing in Italy with my family , my servants , and hum my rather large establishment . 
You may know the name . 
Mrs Clennam said it , and Mr Flintwinch echoed it . 
'Wishing to ha make the narrative coherent and consecutive to him , said Mr Dorrit , 'may I ask say , three questions ? 'Thirty , if you choose . 
'Have you known Monsieur Blandois long ? 'Not a twelvemonth . 
Mr Flintwinch here , will refer to the books and tell you when , and by whom at Paris he was introduced to us . 
If that , Mrs Clennam added , 'should be any satisfaction to you . 
It is poor satisfaction to us . 
'Have you seen him often ? 'No . 
Once before , and 'That once , suggested Mr Flintwinch . 
'Is ha excuse me is its nature to be communicated ? 'No . 
It was evidently impracticable to pass the barrier of that reply . 
'The question has been asked before , said Mrs Clennam , 'and the answer has been , No. We don't choose to publish our transactions , however unimportant , to all the town . 
We say , No. 'I mean , he took away no money with him , for example , said Mr Dorrit . 
'He took away none of ours , sir , and got none here . 
Disconcerted by the cold and hard inquiry , Mr Dorrit was unable to assign any reason for his supposing so . 
'I account for it , sir , she pursued after an awkward silence on Mr Dorrit's part , 'by having no doubt that he is travelling somewhere , or hiding somewhere . 
'Do you know ha why he should hide anywhere ? 'No . 
It was exactly the same No as before , and put another barrier up . 
'You asked me if I accounted for the disappearance to myself , Mrs Clennam sternly reminded him , 'not if I accounted for it to you . 
I do not pretend to account for it to you , sir . 
I understand it to be no more my business to do that , than it is yours to require that . 
Mr Dorrit answered with an apologetic bend of his head . 
dropped the candlestick she held , and cried out , 'There ! O good Lord ! there it is again . 
The woman's terror , for a very short space , seemed to touch the three and they all listened . 
Mr Flintwinch was the first to stir . 
'Affery , my woman , said he , sidling at her with his fists clenched , and his elbows quivering with impatience to shake her , 'you are at your old tricks . 
You'll be walking in your sleep next , my woman , and playing the whole round of your distempered antics . 
You must have some physic . 
Mr Flintwinch shut him out , and chained him out , without a moment's loss of time . 
He was again passed by the two men , one going out and the other coming in got into the vehicle he had left waiting , and was driven away . 
This did not make the night's adventure run any less hotly in Mr Dorrit's mind , either when he sat down by his fire again , or when he went to bed . 
CHAPTER A Castle in the Air Manifold are the cares of wealth and state . 
Mr Dorrit's satisfaction in remembering that it had not been necessary for him to announce himself to Clennam and Co . 
Still , for all that , the question had raised a conflict in his breast and , for some odd reason or no reason , he was vaguely dissatisfied . 
The farewell banquet was of a gorgeous nature , and wound up his visit in a most brilliant manner . 
Fanny combined with the attractions of her youth and beauty , a certain weight of self sustainment as if she had been married twenty years . 
'My dear , he told her at parting , 'our family looks to you to ha assert its dignity and hum maintain its importance . 
I know you will never disappoint it . 
'No , papa , said Fanny , 'you may rely upon that , I think . 
My best love to dearest Amy , and I will write to her very soon . 
'Shall I convey any message to ha anybody else ? asked Mr Dorrit , in an insinuating manner . 
'Papa , said Fanny , before whom Mrs General instantly loomed , 'no , I thank you . 
You are very kind , Pa , but I must beg to be excused . 
There is no other message to send , I thank you , dear papa , that it would be at all agreeable to you to take . 
They parted in an outer drawing room , where only Mr Sparkler waited on his lady , and dutifully bided his time for shaking hands . 
had really overwhelmed him with attentions and services during this memorable visit . 
The aforesaid grandeur was yet full upon Mr Dorrit when he alighted at his hotel . 
This young man has persisted in waiting , sir , saying you would be glad to see him . 
'I ha thought it was Young john ! said Mr Dorrit . 
'The young man may come up , turning to the attendants , as he passed on 'oh yes , he may come up . 
I will speak to him above . 
Young John followed , smiling and much gratified . 
Mr Dorrit's rooms were reached . 
'Now , sir , said Mr Dorrit , turning round upon him and seizing him by the collar when they were safely alone . 
'How dare you do this ? said Mr Dorrit . 
'How do you presume to come here ? How dare you insult me ? 'I insult you , sir ? cried Young John . 
'Oh ! 'Yes , sir , returned Mr Dorrit . 
Your coming here is an affront , an impertinence , an audacity . 
You are not wanted here . 
'I humbly beg your pardon , sir . 
'Tell me that again , cried Mr Dorrit , quite beside himself , 'and I'll take the poker to you ! John Chivery backed to the door . 
'Stop , sir ! cried Mr Dorrit . 
Confound you , sit down ! John Chivery dropped into the chair nearest the door , and Mr Dorrit walked up and down the room rapidly at first then , more slowly . 
Once , he went to the window , and stood there with his forehead against the glass . 
All of a sudden , he turned and said 'What else did you come for , Sir ? 'Nothing else in the world , sir . 
'It's nothing to me , sir , by rights . 
I never thought of lessening the distance betwixt us , I am sure . 
I know it's a liberty , sir , but I never thought you'd have taken it ill . 
He went back to the window , and leaned his forehead against the glass for some time . 
When he turned , he had his handkerchief in his hand , and he had been wiping his eyes with it , and he looked tired and ill . 
'Young John , I am very sorry to have been hasty with you , but ha some remembrances are not happy remembrances , and hum you shouldn't have come . 
'I feel that now , sir , returned John Chivery 'but I didn't before , and Heaven knows I meant no harm , sir . 
No , said Mr Dorrit . 
'I am hum sure of that . 
Give me your hand , Young John , give me your hand . 
Young John gave it but Mr Dorrit had driven his heart out of it , and nothing could change his face now , from its white , shocked look . 
'There ! said Mr Dorrit , slowly shaking hands with him . 
'Sit down again , Young John . 
'Thank you , sir but I'd rather stand . 
Mr Dorrit sat down instead . 
They're not any ways complaining . 
You are in your ha old business I see , John ? said Mr Dorrit , with a glance at the offending bundle he had anathematised . 
I am in my' John hesitated a little 'father's business likewise . 
'Oh indeed ! said Mr Dorrit . 
'Do you ha hum go upon the ha 'Lock , sir ? Yes , sir . 
'Much to do , John ? 'Yes , sir we're pretty heavy at present . 
I don't know how it is , but we generally ARE pretty heavy . 
'At this time of the year , Young John ? 'Mostly at all times of the year , sir . 
I don't know the time that makes much difference to us . 
I wish you good night , sir . 
'Stay a moment , John ha stay a moment . 
Leave me the cigars , John , I ha beg . 
John put them , with a trembling hand , on the table . 
'Stay a moment , Young John stay another moment . 
Would you object to take it , John ? 'Not in any ways , sir . 
There's many of them , I'm sure , that would be the better for it . 
I ha I'll write it , John . 
His hand shook so that he was a long time writing it , and wrote it in a tremulous scrawl at last . 
It was a cheque for one hundred pounds . 
He folded it up , put it in Young john's hand , and pressed the hand in his . 
'I hope you'll ha overlook hum what has passed , John . 
'Don't speak of it , sir , on any accounts . 
I don't in any ways bear malice , I'm sure . 
But nothing while John was there could change John's face to its natural colour and expression , or restore John's natural manner . 
There was no doubt that he went direct out at the door , and away down the street with a quick step . 
'You can take that bundle of cigars to smoke on the journey , if you like , said Mr Dorrit , with a careless wave of his hand . 
'Ha brought by hum little offering from ha son of old tenant of mine . 
Next morning's sun saw Mr Dorrit's equipage upon the Dover road , where every red jacketed postilion was the sign of a cruel house , established for the unmerciful plundering of travellers . 
Another day's sun saw him at Calais . 
On again by the heavy French roads for Paris . 
Having now quite recovered his equanimity , Mr Dorrit , in his snug corner , fell to castle building as he rode along . 
It was evident that he had a very large castle in hand . 
Arrived at Paris , and resting there three days , Mr Dorrit strolled much about the streets alone , looking in at the shop windows , and particularly the jewellers' windows . 
Ultimately , he went into the most famous jeweller's , and said he wanted to buy a little gift for a lady . 
What did he know ? It was always possible the sex being so charming . 
Would she show him some ? Most willingly , said the little woman . 
Flattered and enchanted to show him many . 
But pardon ! To begin with , he would have the great goodness to observe that there were love gifts , and there were nuptial gifts . 
For example , these ravishing ear rings and this necklace so superb to correspond , were what one called a love gift . 
These brooches and these rings , of a beauty so gracious and celestial , were what one called , with the permission of Monsieur , nuptial gifts . 
Mr Dorrit was not sure of that . 
But , for example , the sprightly little woman was very sure of it , she said . 
So Mr Dorrit bought a gift of each sort , and paid handsomely for it . 
Building away with all his might , but reserving the plans of his castle exclusively for his own eye , Mr Dorrit posted away for Marseilles . 
Building on , building on , busily , busily , from morning to night . 
Falling asleep , and leaving great blocks of building materials dangling in the air waking again , to resume work and get them into their places . 
Not a fortified town that they passed in all their journey was as strong , not a Cathedral summit was as high , as Mr Dorrit's castle . 
The savage herdsmen and the fierce looking peasants who had chequered the way while the light lasted , had all gone down with the sun , and left the wilderness blank . 
The carriage dipped down again into a hollow of the black dry sea , and for a long time there was nothing visible save its petrified swell and the gloomy sky . 
Mr Dorrit , though he had his castle building to engage his mind , could not be quite easy in that desolate place . 
He was far more curious , in every swerve of the carriage , and every cry of the postilions , than he had been since he quitted London . 
The valet on the box evidently quaked . 
The Courier in the rumble was not altogether comfortable in his mind . 
But , for all this , he worked at his castle in the intervals . 
beating at the gates of Rome . 
Mr Dorrit was not expected by his own people that night . 
He had been but they had given him up until to morrow , not doubting that it was later than he would care , in those parts , to be out . 
Thus , when his equipage stopped at his own gate , no one but the porter appeared to receive him . 
Was Miss Dorrit from home ? he asked . 
Good , said Mr Dorrit to the assembling servants let them keep where they were let them help to unload the carriage he would find Miss Dorrit for himself . 
So he went up his grand staircase , slowly , and tired , and looked into various chambers which were empty , until he saw a light in a small ante room . 
It was a curtained nook , like a tent , within two other rooms and it looked warm and bright in colour , as he approached it through the dark avenue they made . 
There was a draped doorway , but no door and as he stopped here , looking in unseen , he felt a pang . 
So had he sat many a night , over a coal fire far away so had she sat , devoted to him . 
Yet surely there was nothing to be jealous of in the old miserable poverty . 
So cheerful , uncle , and so ready , and so interested . 
'My dear child all you . 
'All me , uncle ! 'Yes , yes . 
You have done me a world of good . 
'There is nothing in it but your own fresh fancy , uncle , said Little Dorrit , cheerfully . 
'Well , well , well ! murmured the old man . 
'I have been freer with you , you see , my dove , said the old man , 'since we have been alone . 
I say , alone , for I don't count Mrs General I don't care for her she has nothing to do with me . 
But I know Fanny was impatient of me . 
I know I am not fit company for our company . 
My brother William , said the old man admiringly , 'is fit company for monarchs but not so your uncle , my dear . 
Frederick Dorrit is no credit to William Dorrit , and he knows it quite well . 
Little Dorrit with a cry of pleasure put her arms about her father's neck , and kissed him again and again . 
Her father was a little impatient , and a little querulous . 
'I am glad to find you at last , Amy , he said . 
Really I am glad to find hum any one to receive me at last . 
'It was so late , my dear William , said his brother , 'that we had given you up for to night . 
'Surely , surely , returned the other , with a misgiving that he had given offence . 
'Thank you , Amy , pursued Mr Dorrit , as she helped him to put off his wrappers . 
'I can do it without assistance . 
I ha need not trouble you , Amy . 
'Thank you , my love , said Mr Dorrit , with a reproachful frost upon him 'I ha am afraid I am causing inconvenience . 
Mrs General pretty well ? 'Mrs General complained of a headache , and of being fatigued and so , when we gave you up , she went to bed , dear . 
Perhaps Mr Dorrit thought that Mrs General had done well in being overcome by the disappointment of his not arriving . 
At any rate , his face relaxed , and he said with obvious satisfaction , 'Extremely sorry to hear that Mrs General is not well . 
During this short dialogue , his daughter had been observant of him , with something more than her usual interest . 
It gladdens my eyes to see you again that's all . 
'Don't say that's all , because ha that's not all . 
You hum you think , said Mr Dorrit , with an accusatory emphasis , 'that I am not looking well . 
'I thought you looked a little tired , love . 
'Then you are mistaken , said Mr Dorrit . 
'Ha , I am not tired . 
I am very much fresher than I was when I went away . 
He was so inclined to be angry that she said nothing more in her justification , but remained quietly beside him embracing his arm . 
As he stood thus , with his brother on the other side , he fell into a heavy doze , of not a minute's duration , and awoke with a start . 
'Frederick , he said , turning to his brother 'I recommend you to go to bed immediately . 
I'll wait and see you sup . 
'Frederick , he retorted , 'I beg you to go to bed . 
I ha make it a personal request that you go to bed . 
You ought to have been in bed long ago . 
'Hah ! said the old man , who had no wish but to please him . 
'Well , well , well ! I dare say I am . 
'My dear Frederick , returned Mr Dorrit , with an astonishing superiority to his brother's failing powers , 'there can be no doubt of it . 
It is painful to me to see you so weak . 
I don't find you looking at all well . 
You are not fit for this sort of thing . 
You should be more careful , you should be very careful . 
'Shall I go to bed ? asked Frederick . 
'Dear Frederick , said Mr Dorrit , 'do , I adjure you ! Good night , brother . 
I hope you will be stronger to morrow . 
I am not at all pleased with your looks . 
Good night , dear fellow . 
'Your uncle wanders very much , Amy , he said , when he was thus roused . 
'He is less ha coherent , and his conversation is more hum broken , than I have ha , hum ever known . 
Has he had any illness since I have been gone ? 'No , father . 
'You ha see a great change in him , Amy ? 'I have not observed it , dear . 
'Greatly broken , said Mr Dorrit . 
My poor , affectionate , failing Frederick ! Ha . 
She sat at his side as in the days that were gone , for the first time since those days ended . 
They were alone , and she helped him to his meat and poured out his drink for him , as she had been used to do in the prison . 
All this happened now , for the first time since their accession to wealth . 
He took very little supper , but was a long time over it , and often reverted to his brother's declining state . 
Though he expressed the greatest pity for him , he was almost bitter upon him . 
He said that poor Frederick ha hum drivelled . 
There was no other word to express it drivelled . 
Extremely sorry , he then repeated with his former satisfaction , that that ha superior woman was poorly . 
Little Dorrit , in her watchful love , would have remembered the lightest thing he said or did that night , though she had had no subsequent reason to recall that night . 
His telling her of the glorious state that Mr Merdle kept , and of the court that bowed before him , naturally brought him to Mrs Merdle . 
So naturally indeed , that although there was an unusual want of sequence in the greater part of his remarks , he passed to her at once , and asked how she was . 
She is going away next week . 
'Home ? asked Mr Dorrit . 
'After a few weeks' stay upon the road . 
'She will be a vast loss here , said Mr Dorrit . 
'A vast ha acquisition at home . 
To Fanny , and to hum the rest of the ha great world . 
Little Dorrit thought of the competition that was to be entered upon , and assented very softly . 
'Mrs Merdle is going to have a great farewell Assembly , dear , and a dinner before it . 
She has been expressing her anxiety that you should return in time . 
She has invited both you and me to her dinner . 
'She is ha very kind . 
When is the day ? 'The day after to morrow . 
'Write round in the morning , and say that I have returned , and shall hum be delighted . 
'You may not , Amy . 
Good night , my dear ! We must marry ha we must marry YOU , now . 
With that he went , more slowly and more tired , up the staircase to his rooms , and , almost as soon as he got there , dismissed his valet . 
His next care was to look about him for his Paris purchases , and , after opening their cases and carefully surveying them , to put them away under lock and key . 
Mrs General sent up her compliments in good time next day , and hoped he had rested well after this fatiguing journey . 
He sent down his compliments , and begged to inform Mrs General that he had rested very well indeed , and was in high condition . 
As the family had no visitors that day , its four members dined alone together . 
Notwithstanding what may be called in these pages the Pruney and Prismatic nature of the family banquet , Mr Dorrit several times fell asleep while it was in progress . 
His fits of dozing were as sudden as they had been overnight , and were as short and profound . 
, and after dinner , when Frederick had withdrawn , privately apologised to Mrs General for the poor man . 
'The most estimable and affectionate of brothers , he said , 'but ha , hum broken up altogether . 
'Mr Frederick , sir , quoth Mrs General , 'is habitually absent and drooping , but let us hope it is not so bad as that . 
Mr Dorrit , however , was determined not to let him off . 
Mouldering away before our eyes . 
Good Frederick ! 'You left Mrs Sparkler quite well and happy , I trust ? said Mrs General , after heaving a cool sigh for Frederick . 
'Surrounded , replied Mr Dorrit , 'by ha all that can charm the taste , and hum elevate the mind . 
Happy , my dear madam , in a hum husband . 
Mrs General was a little fluttered seeming delicately to put the word away with her gloves , as if there were no knowing what it might lead to . 
'Fanny , Mr Dorrit continued . 
'Fanny , Mrs General , has high qualities . 
Ambition hum purpose , consciousness of ha position , determination to support that position ha , hum grace , beauty , and native nobility . 
'No doubt , said Mrs General . 
Mrs General's voice , as it died away , pronounced the words , 'at a loss to imagine . 
After which Mr Dorrit was seized with a doze for about a minute , out of which he sprang with spasmodic nimbleness . 
'Mr Dorrit , returned Mrs General , 'is ever but too obliging , ever but too appreciative . 
'Opinion of your services , madam ? said Mr Dorrit . 
'Of , Mrs General repeated , in an elegantly impressive manner , 'my services . 
'Of your services alone , dear madam ? said Mr Dorrit . 
'I presume , retorted Mrs General , in her former impressive manner , 'of my services alone . 
For , to what else , said Mrs General , with a slightly interrogative action of her gloves , 'could I impute 'To ha yourself , Mrs General . 
To yourself and your merits , was Mr Dorrit's rejoinder . 
'Mr Dorrit will pardon me , said Mrs General , 'if I remark that this is not a time or place for the pursuit of the present conversation . 
Mr Dorrit will excuse me if I remind him that Miss Dorrit is in the adjoining room , and is visible to myself while I utter her name . 
Mr Dorrit will forgive me if I observe that I am agitated , and that I find there are moments when weaknesses I supposed myself to have subdued , return with redoubled power . 
Mr Dorrit will allow me to withdraw . 
'Mr Dorrit , said Mrs General , casting down her eyes as she rose with a bend , 'must ever claim my homage and obedience . 
Mrs General then took herself off in a stately way , and not with that amount of trepidation upon her which might have been expected in a less remarkable woman . 
Having parted from her with what may be conjectured to have been a rather bony kiss of a cosmetic flavour , he gave his daughter his blessing , graciously . 
And having thus hinted that there was something remarkable in the wind , he again went to bed . 
His daughter was dressed for Mrs Merdle's dinner before he appeared . 
He then presented himself in a refulgent condition as to his attire , but looking indefinably shrunken and old . 
The distance that they had to go was very short , but he was at his building work again before the carriage had half traversed it . 
Mrs Merdle received him with great distinction the bosom was in admirable preservation , and on the best terms with itself the dinner was very choice and the company was very select . 
Mrs Merdle had written on it in pencil , 'Pray come and speak to Mr Dorrit , I doubt if he is well . 
Amy , my dear , he repeated . 
I don't feel quite myself . 
I don't know what's the matter with me . 
I particularly wish to see Bob . 
Of all the turnkeys , he's as much my friend as yours . 
See if Bob is in the lodge , and beg him to come to me . 
All the guests were now in consternation , and everybody rose . 
'Dear father , I am not there I am here , by you . 
'Oh ! You are here , Amy ! Good . 
If he has been relieved , and is not on the lock , tell Mrs Bangham to go and fetch him . 
She was gently trying to get him away but he resisted , and would not go . 
'I tell you , child , he said petulantly , 'I can't be got up the narrow stairs without Bob . 
It blows over the ha Surrey hills . 
Blows over the Surrey hills . 
Supported by a small subscription of the ha Collegiate body . 
In return for which hot water general kitchen and little domestic advantages . 
Those who are habituated to the ha Marshalsea , are pleased to call me its father . 
I am accustomed to be complimented by strangers as the ha Father of the Marshalsea . 
Certainly , if years of residence may establish a claim to so ha honourable a title , I may accept the hum conferred distinction . 
My child , ladies and gentlemen . 
Born here ! She was not ashamed of it , or ashamed of him . 
She was pale and frightened but she had no other care than to soothe him and get him away , for his own dear sake . 
She was between him and the wondering faces , turned round upon his breast with her own face raised to his . 
He held her clasped in his left arm , and between whiles her low voice was heard tenderly imploring him to go away with her . 
'Born here , he repeated , shedding tears . 
Ladies and gentlemen , my daughter . 
Child of an unfortunate father , but ha always a gentleman . 
Poor , no doubt , but hum proud . 
On the contrary , they are most acceptable . 
The few who had lingered thus long followed the rest , and Little Dorrit and her father were left to the servants and themselves . 
They got him up to his room without help , and laid him down on his bed . 
When he heard footsteps in the street , he took them for the old weary tread in the yards . 
When the hour came for locking up , he supposed all strangers to be excluded for the night . 
He fell away into a weakness so extreme that he could not raise his hand . 
You are very feeble indeed . 
They tried him with Mrs General , but he had not the faintest knowledge of her . 
Some injurious suspicion lodged itself in his brain , that she wanted to supplant Mrs Bangham , and that she was given to drinking . 
Saving that he once asked 'if Tip had gone outside ? the remembrance of his two children not present seemed to have departed from him . 
But the child who had done so much for him and had been so poorly repaid , was never out of his mind . 
Not that he spared her , or was fearful of her being spent by watching and fatigue he was not more troubled on that score than he had usually been . 
No he loved her in his old way . 
As to her , she bent over his bed with her quiet face against his , and would have laid down her own life to restore him . 
She suffered it to run down but he was still uneasy , and showed that was not what he wanted . 
At length he roused himself to explain that he wanted money to be raised on this watch . 
He soon made it plain that this was so for , in another day or two he sent off his sleeve buttons and finger rings . 
He had an amazing satisfaction in entrusting her with these errands , and appeared to consider it equivalent to making the most methodical and provident arrangements . 
Thus for ten days Little Dorrit bent over his pillow , laying her cheek against his . 
Sometimes she was so worn out that for a few minutes they would slumber together . 
Quietly , quietly , all the lines of the plan of the great Castle melted one after another . 
Quietly , quietly , the ruled and cross ruled countenance on which they were traced , became fair and blank . 
Quietly , quietly , the reflected marks of the prison bars and of the zig zag iron on the wall top , faded away . 
Quietly , quietly , the face subsided into a far younger likeness of her own than she had ever seen under the grey hair , and sank to rest . 
At first her uncle was stark distracted . 
'Uncle , dear uncle , spare yourself , spare me ! The old man was not deaf to the last words . 
When he did begin to restrain himself , it was that he might spare her . 
He had no care for himself but , with all the remaining power of the honest heart , stunned so long and now awaking to be broken , he honoured and blessed her . 
'O God , he cried , before they left the room , with his wrinkled hands clasped over her . 
'Thou seest this daughter of my dear dead brother ! All that I have looked upon , with my half blind and sinful eyes , Thou hast discerned clearly , brightly . 
Not a hair of her head shall be harmed before Thee . 
Thou wilt uphold her here to her last hour . 
And I know Thou wilt reward her hereafter ! They remained in a dim room near , until it was almost midnight , quiet and sad together . 
Then she sank upon her own bed , and fell into a deep sleep the sleep of exhaustion and rest , though not of complete release from a pervading consciousness of affliction . 
Sleep , good Little Dorrit . 
Sleep through the night ! It was a moonlight night but the moon rose late , being long past the full . 
When it was high in the peaceful firmament , it shone through half closed lattice blinds into the solemn room where the stumblings and wanderings of a life had so lately ended . 
One figure reposed upon the bed . 
The two brothers were before their Father far beyond the twilight judgment of this world high above its mists and obscurities . 
CHAPTER Introduces the next The passengers were landing from the packet on the pier at Calais . 
A low lying place and a low spirited place Calais was , with the tide ebbing out towards low water mark . 
attended to prevent their recovery from bewilderment . 
Clennam , harassed by more anxieties than one , was among this devoted band . 
There was a tranquil air in the town after the turbulence of the Channel and the beach , and its dulness in that comparison was agreeable . 
They had all an air , too , of lounging out a limited round , day after day , which strongly reminded him of the Marshalsea . 
But , taking no further note of them than was sufficient to give birth to the reflection , he sought out a certain street and number which he kept in his mind . 
'So Pancks said , he murmured to himself , as he stopped before a dull house answering to the address . 
'Enter then and ascend , if you please , returned the peasant woman , in French likewise . 
He did both , and followed her up a dark bare staircase to a back room on the first floor . 
'Monsieur Blandois , said Clennam . 
Thereupon the woman withdrew and left him to look at the room . 
It was the pattern of room always to be found in such a house . 
Cool , dull , and dark . 
A room not large enough to skate in nor adapted to the easy pursuit of any other occupation . 
After some pause , a door of communication with another room was opened , and a lady entered . 
She manifested great surprise on seeing Clennam , and her glance went round the room in search of some one else . 
'Pardon me , Miss Wade . 
'It was not your name that was brought to me . 
I have already had experience that my name does not predispose you to an interview and I ventured to mention the name of one I am in search of . 
'Pray , she returned , motioning him to a chair so coldly that he remained standing , 'what name was it that you gave ? 'I mentioned the name of Blandois . 
'Blandois ? 'A name you are acquainted with . 
'It is strange , she said , frowning , 'that you should still press an undesired interest in me and my acquaintances , in me and my affairs , Mr Clennam . 
I don't know what you mean . 
This may be in the one class , or it may be in the other , or I may never have heard it . 
I am acquainted with no reason for examining myself , or for being examined , about it . 
'If you will allow me , said Clennam , 'I will tell you my reason for pressing the subject . 
I admit that I do press it , and I must beg you to forgive me if I do so , very earnestly . 
The reason is all mine , I do not insinuate that it is in any way yours . 
'Well , sir , she returned , repeating a little less haughtily than before her former invitation to him to be seated to which he now deferred , as she seated herself . 
'I am at least glad to know that this is not another bondswoman of some friend of yours , who is bereft of free choice , and whom I have spirited away . 
I will hear your reason , if you please . 
'First , to identify the person of whom we speak , said Clennam , 'let me observe that it is the person you met in London some time back . 
You will remember meeting him near the river in the Adelphi ! 'You mix yourself most unaccountably with my business , she replied , looking full at him with stern displeasure . 
'How do you know that ? 'I entreat you not to take it ill . 
'What accident ? 'Solely the accident of coming upon you in the street and seeing the meeting . 
'Do you speak of yourself , or of some one else ? 'Of myself . 
'To be sure it was in the open street , she observed , after a few moments of less and less angry reflection . 
'Fifty people might have seen it . 
It would have signified nothing if they had . 
do I connect my visit with it or the favour that I have to ask . 
'Oh ! You have to ask a favour ! It occurred to me , and the handsome face looked bitterly at him , 'that your manner was softened , Mr Clennam . 
He was content to protest against this by a slight action without contesting it in words . 
He then referred to Blandois' disappearance , of which it was probable she had heard ? However probable it was to him , she had heard of no such thing . 
and judge for himself what general intelligence was likely to reach the ears of a woman who had been shut up there while it was rife , devouring her own heart . 
Can give me some little clue by which to seek him out in the likeliest manner , and either produce him , or establish what has become of him . 
This is the favour I ask , and I ask it in a distress of mind for which I hope you will feel some consideration . 
If you should have any reason for imposing conditions upon me , I will respect it without asking what it is . 
'Then you knew the man before ? 'Not before afterwards . 
I never saw him before , but I saw him again on this very night of his disappearance . 
In my mother's room , in fact . 
You will read in this paper all that is known of him . 
He handed her one of the printed bills , which she read with a steady and attentive face . 
'This is more than I knew of him , she said , giving it back . 
Clennam's looks expressed his heavy disappointment , perhaps his incredulity for she added in the same unsympathetic tone 'You don't believe it . 
Still , it is so . 
As to personal communication it seems that there was personal communication between him and your mother . 
'Come , sir , she said , with a cruel pleasure in repeating the stab , 'I will be as open with you as you can desire . 
, I should regard myself as heavily compromised by having had anything to do with this fellow . 
Yet he never passed in at MY door never sat in colloquy with ME until midnight . 
She took her revenge for her old grudge in thus turning his subject against him . 
Hers was not the nature to spare him , and she had no compunction . 
, and that I hired him there , as the suitable instrument of a purpose I happened to have I have no objection to tell you . 
In short , it was worth my while , for my own pleasure the gratification of a strong feeling to pay a spy who would fetch and carry for money . 
That , at least , is my opinion of him and I see it is not very far removed from yours . 
'My mother , let me remind you , said Clennam , 'was first brought into communication with him in the unlucky course of business . 
'It appears to have been an unlucky course of business that last brought her into communication with him , returned Miss Wade 'and business hours on that occasion were late . 
He is , I say again without disguise , a low mercenary wretch . 
I suppose such a creature goes where there is occasion for him . 
If I had not had occasion for him , you would not have seen him and me together . 
Wrung by her persistence in keeping that dark side of the case before him , of which there was a half hidden shadow in his own breast , Clennam was silent . 
'I have spoken of him as still living , she added , 'but he may have been put out of the way for anything I know . 
For anything I care , also . 
I have no further occasion for him . 
With a heavy sigh and a despondent air , Arthur Clennam slowly rose . 
He was a chance acquaintance , made abroad . 
'A chance acquaintance made abroad ! she repeated . 
Your dear friend has need to divert himself with all the acquaintances he can make , seeing what a wife he has . 
I hate his wife , sir . 
The anger with which she said it , the more remarkable for being so much under her restraint , fixed Clennam's attention , and kept him on the spot . 
'All I will say is , Miss Wade , he remarked , 'that you can have received no provocation to a feeling in which I believe you have no sharer . 
'You may ask your dear friend , if you choose , she returned , 'for his opinion upon that subject . 
'I am scarcely on those intimate terms with my dear friend , said Arthur , in spite of his resolutions , 'that would render my approaching the subject very probable , Miss Wade . 
'I hate him , she returned . 
'Worse than his wife , because I was once dupe enough , and false enough to myself , almost to love him . 
Shall I give you something I have written and put by for your perusal , or shall I hold my hand ? Arthur begged her to give it to him . 
She went to the bureau , unlocked it , and took from an inner drawer a few folded sheets of paper . 
Sir , whether you find me temporarily and cheaply lodging in an empty London house , or in a Calais apartment , you find Harriet with me . 
You may like to see her before you leave . 
Harriet , come in ! She called Harriet again . 
The second call produced Harriet , once Tattycoram . 
'Not come in search of you , you see but still seeking some one . 
He wants that Blandois man . 
'With whom I saw you in the Strand in London , hinted Arthur . 
'If you know anything of him , Harriet , except that he came from Venice which we all know tell it to Mr Clennam freely . 
'I know nothing more about him , said the girl . 
'Are you satisfied ? Miss Wade inquired of Arthur . 
He had no reason to disbelieve them the girl's manner being so natural as to be almost convincing , if he had had any previous doubts . 
He replied , 'I must seek for intelligence elsewhere . 
He was not going in the same breath but he had risen before the girl entered , and she evidently thought he was . 
'They were , when I last heard of them . 
They are not at home . 
By the way , let me ask you . 
Is it true that you were seen there ? 'Where ? Where does any one say I was seen ? returned the girl , sullenly casting down her eyes . 
'Looking in at the garden gate of the cottage . 
'No , said Miss Wade . 
'She has never been near it . 
'You are wrong , then , said the girl . 
'I went down there the last time we were in London . 
I went one afternoon when you left me alone . 
And I did look in . 
'I saw by the windows that the family were not there . 
'Why should you go near the place ? 'Because I wanted to see it . 
Because I felt that I should like to look at it again . 
As each of the two handsome faces looked at the other , Clennam felt how each of the two natures must be constantly tearing the other to pieces . 
You are not worth the favour I have shown you . 
You are no higher than a spaniel , and had better go back to the people who did worse than whip you . 
'If you speak so of them with any one else by to hear , you'll provoke me to take their part , said the girl . 
'Go back to them , Miss Wade retorted . 
'You know very well , retorted Harriet in her turn , 'that I won't go back to them . 
You know very well that I have thrown them off , and never can , never shall , never will , go back to them . 
Let them alone , then , Miss Wade . 
'You prefer their plenty to your less fat living here , she rejoined . 
'You exalt them , and slight me . 
What else should I have expected ? I ought to have known it . 
'It's not so , said the girl , flushing high , 'and you don't say what you mean . 
I know what you mean . 
You are reproaching me , underhanded , with having nobody but you to look to . 
You are as bad as they were , every bit . 
But I will not be quite tamed , and made submissive . 
I will say again that I went to look at the house , because I had often thought that I should like to see it once more . 
I will ask again how they are , because I once liked them and at times thought they were kind to me . 
Hereupon Clennam said that he was sure they would still receive her kindly , if she should ever desire to return . 
'Never ! said the girl passionately . 
'I shall never do that . 
Nobody knows that better than Miss Wade , though she taunts me because she has made me her dependent . 
And I know I am so and I know she is overjoyed when she can bring it to my mind . 
'A good pretence ! said Miss Wade , with no less anger , haughtiness , and bitterness 'but too threadbare to cover what I plainly see in this . 
My poverty will not bear competition with their money . 
, made as if she were too low to notice or to be noticed . 
On the way he unfolded the sheets of paper , and read in them what is reproduced in the next chapter . 
CHAPTER The History of a Self Tormentor I have the misfortune of not being a fool . 
From a very early age I have detected what those about me thought they hid from me . 
If I could have been habitually imposed upon , instead of habitually discerning the truth , I might have lived as smoothly as most fools do . 
My childhood was passed with a grandmother that is to say , with a lady who represented that relative to me , and who took that title on herself . 
She had no claim to it , but I being to that extent a little fool had no suspicion of her . 
She had some children of her own family in her house , and some children of other people . 
All girls ten in number , including me . 
We all lived together and were educated together . 
I must have been about twelve years old when I began to see how determinedly those girls patronised me . 
I was told I was an orphan . 
that they conciliated me in an insolent pity , and in a sense of superiority . 
I did not set this down as a discovery , rashly . 
I could hardly make them quarrel with me . 
When I succeeded with any of them , they were sure to come after an hour or two , and begin a reconciliation . 
I tried them over and over again , and I never knew them wait for me to begin . 
They were always forgiving me , in their vanity and condescension . 
Little images of grown people ! One of them was my chosen friend . 
I loved that stupid mite in a passionate way that she could no more deserve than I can remember without feeling ashamed of , though I was but a child . 
She had what they called an amiable temper , an affectionate temper . 
She could distribute , and did distribute pretty looks and smiles to every one among them . 
However , I loved her faithfully and one time I went home with her for the holidays . 
She was worse at home than she had been at school . 
Her plan was , to make them all fond of her and so drive me wild with jealousy . 
To be familiar and endearing with them all and so make me mad with envying them . 
It came to an end , and I was relieved . 
In the family there was an aunt who was not fond of me . 
I doubt if any of the family liked me much but I never wanted them to like me , being altogether bound up in the one girl . 
The aunt was a young woman , and she had a serious way with her eyes of watching me . 
She was an audacious woman , and openly looked compassionately at me . 
After one of the nights that I have spoken of , I came down into a greenhouse before breakfast . 
had gone down before me , and I heard this aunt speaking to her about me as I entered . 
I stopped where I was , among the leaves , and listened . 
The aunt said , 'Charlotte , Miss Wade is wearing you to death , and this must not continue . 
I repeat the very words I heard . 
, and said , 'Dear aunt , she has an unhappy temper other girls at school , besides I , try hard to make it better we all try hard . 
The poor miserable girl came out of her concealment , as you may be prepared to hear , and said , 'Send me home . 
I went among young women next , and I found them no better . 
Fair words and fair pretences but I penetrated below those assertions of themselves and depreciations of me , and they were no better . 
Before I left them , I learned that I had no grandmother and no recognised relation . 
I carried the light of that information both into my past and into my future . 
It showed me many new occasions on which people triumphed over me , when they made a pretence of treating me with consideration , or doing me a service . 
A man of business had a small property in trust for me . 
The mother was young and pretty . 
From the first , she made a show of behaving to me with great delicacy . 
I say I did not resent it , nor did I but I showed her , by not gratifying her , that I understood her . 
When she pressed me to take wine , I took water . 
If there happened to be anything choice at table , she always sent it to me but I always declined it , and ate of the rejected dishes . 
These disappointments of her patronage were a sharp retort , and made me feel independent . 
They were timid , but on the whole disposed to attach themselves to me . 
I could almost have settled down to my fate but for this woman . 
Her artful devices for keeping herself before the children in constant competition with me , might have blinded many in my place but I saw through them from the first . 
, she was never absent . 
The most crafty of her many subtleties was her feint of seeking to make the children fonder of me . 
She would lead them to me and coax them to me . 
'Come to good Miss Wade , come to dear Miss Wade , come to pretty Miss Wade . 
She loves you very much . 
Miss Wade is a clever lady , who has read heaps of books , and can tell you far better and more interesting stories than I know . 
'Hush ! Poor Miss Wade is not well . 
Don't make a noise , my dears , her head aches . 
Come and ask her if she is better come and ask her to lie down . 
I hope you have nothing on your mind , ma'am . 
Don't take on , ma'am , and be sorry ! It became intolerable . 
I could not bear the presence of that woman Dawes . 
It must have been wholly inadvertent on my part . 
Pray tell me what it is . 
I replied that I had no complaint to make , either of my Mistress or to my Mistress but I must go . 
She hesitated a moment , and then sat down beside me , and laid her hand on mine . 
As if that honour would obliterate any remembrance ! 'Miss Wade , I fear you are unhappy , through causes over which I have no influence . 
I smiled , thinking of the experience the word awakened , and said , 'I have an unhappy temper , I suppose . 
'I did not say that . 
'It is an easy way of accounting for anything , said I. 'It may be but I did not say so . 
What I wish to approach is something very different . 
My husband and I have exchanged some remarks upon the subject , when we have observed with pain that you have not been easy with us . 
'I only mean , not happy with us . 
If so , let us entreat you not to make them a cause of grief . 
My husband himself , as is well known , formerly had a very dear sister who was not in law his sister , but who was universally beloved and respected . 
I left that house that night . 
The parents here were elderly people people of station , and rich . 
A nephew whom they had brought up was a frequent visitor at the house , among many other visitors and he began to pay me attention . 
I was resolute in repulsing him for I had determined when I went there , that no one should pity me or condescend to me . 
But he wrote me a letter . 
It led to our being engaged to be married . 
He was a year younger than I , and young looking even when that allowance was made . 
He was on absence from India , where he had a post that was soon to grow into a very good one . 
In six months we were to be married , and were to go to India . 
I was to stay in the house , and was to be married from the house . 
Nobody objected to any part of the plan . 
I cannot avoid saying he admired me but , if I could , I would . 
Vanity has nothing to do with the declaration , for his admiration worried me . 
They appraised me in their own minds , I saw , and were curious to ascertain what my full value was . 
I resolved that they should not know . 
I was immovable and silent before them and would have suffered any one of them to kill me sooner than I would have laid myself out to bespeak their approval . 
He told me I did not do myself justice . 
I told him I did , and it was because I did and meant to do so to the last , that I would not stoop to propitiate any of them . 
Under that pretence he began to retort upon me . 
By the hour together , he would keep at a distance from me , talking to any one rather than to me . 
I have sat alone and unnoticed , half an evening , while he conversed with his young cousin , my pupil . 
For I did love him once . 
deliberately , wilfully , added to my trials and vexations . 
My pride rose against this barefaced way of pointing out the contrast my married life was to present to my then dependent and inferior position . 
I suppressed my indignation but I showed her that her intention was not lost upon me , and I repaid her annoyance by affecting humility . 
What she described would surely be a great deal too much honour for me , I would tell her . 
I was afraid I might not be able to support so great a change . 
Think of a mere governess , her daughter's governess , coming to that high distinction ! It made her uneasy , and made them all uneasy , when I answered in this way . 
They knew that I fully understood her . 
He had been intimate there for a long time , but had been abroad . 
He understood the state of things at a glance , and he understood me . 
He was the first person I had ever seen in my life who had understood me . 
He was not in the house three times before I knew that he accompanied every movement of my mind . 
In his coldly easy way with all of them , and with me , and with the whole subject , I saw it clearly . 
These were not great services , you may say . 
They were acceptable to me , because they echoed my own mind , and confirmed my own knowledge . 
I soon began to like the society of your dear friend better than any other . 
that jealousy was growing out of this , I liked this society still better . 
He was tame in comparison with Mr Gowan , who knew how to address me on equal terms , and how to anatomise the wretched people around us . 
This went on , until the aunt , my Mistress , took it upon herself to speak to me . 
I asked her how she could answer for what I meant ? She could always answer , she replied , for my meaning nothing wrong . 
I thanked her , but said I would prefer to answer for myself and to myself . 
Her other servants would probably be grateful for good characters , but I wanted none . 
She seemed to think that her distinguished nephew had gone into a slave market and purchased a wife . 
It would probably have come , sooner or later , to the end to which it did come , but she brought it to its issue at once . 
She told me , with assumed commiseration , that I had an unhappy temper . 
, and deplored the necessity of breaking mere house flies on the wheel . 
So he said , and I did not contradict him . 
It was not very long before I found that he was courting his present wife , and that she had been taken away to be out of his reach . 
I hated her then , quite as much as I hate her now and naturally , therefore , could desire nothing better than that she should marry him . 
But I was restlessly curious to look at her so curious that I felt it to be one of the few sources of entertainment left to me . 
I travelled a little travelled until I found myself in her society , and in yours . 
Your dear friend , I think , was not known to you then , and had not given you any of those signal marks of his friendship which he has bestowed upon you . 
I often heard it said , too , that she had 'an unhappy temper . 
I have no occasion to relate that I succeeded . 
We have been together ever since , sharing my small means . 
CHAPTER Who passes by this Road so late ? Arthur Clennam had made his unavailing expedition to Calais in the midst of a great pressure of business . 
Indeed it had a barbarous way of striking the latter art and mystery dead , in the person of any enlightened subject who practised it . 
Accordingly , the men who were wanted were sought out and found which was in itself a most uncivilised and irregular way of proceeding . 
, and were invited to come at once and do what they had to do . 
In short , they were regarded as men who meant to do it , engaging with other men who meant it to be done . 
Daniel Doyce was one of the chosen . 
There was no foreseeing at that time whether he would be absent months or years . 
He had slipped across the water in his first leisure , and had slipped as quickly back again for his farewell interview with Doyce . 
Him Arthur now showed , with pains and care , the state of their gains and losses , responsibilities and prospects . 
Daniel went through it all in his patient manner , and admired it all exceedingly . 
'It's all beautiful , Clennam , in its regularity and order . 
'I am glad you approve , Doyce . 
'As to that , and as to everything else of that kind , all rests with you . 
You will continue in all such matters to act for both of us , as you have done hitherto , and to lighten my mind of a load it is much relieved from . 
'Though , as I often tell you , returned Clennam , 'you unreasonably depreciate your business qualities . 
'Perhaps so , said Doyce , smiling . 
Anyhow , I have a calling that I have studied more than such matters , and that I am better fitted for . 
I have perfect confidence in my partner , and I am satisfied that he will do what is best . 
I don't think I have any other . 
I dare say I entertain that prejudice , only because I have never given my mind fully to the subject . 
'But you shouldn't call it a prejudice , said Clennam . 
'My dear Doyce , it is the soundest sense . 
'I am glad you think so , returned Doyce , with his grey eye looking kind and bright . 
'It so happens , said Clennam , 'that just now , not half an hour before you came down , I was saying the same thing to Pancks , who looked in here . 
'Pancks ? said Doyce , tilting up his hat at the back , and nodding with an air of confidence . 
'Aye , aye , aye ! That's a cautious fellow . 
'He is a very cautious fellow indeed , returned Arthur . 
'Quite a specimen of caution . 
They both appeared to derive a larger amount of satisfaction from the cautious character of Mr Pancks , than was quite intelligible , judged by the surface of their conversation . 
I want you to grant a request of mine . 
'Any request you can make Except , Clennam was quick with his exception , for his partner's face was quick in suggesting it , 'except that I will abandon your invention . 
'That's the request , and you know it is , said Doyce . 
'I say , No , then . 
'You will not , returned Doyce , shaking his head . 
'Take my word for it , you never will . 
'At least , I'll try , said Clennam . 
'It will do me no harm to try . 
'I am not certain of that , rejoined Doyce , laying his hand persuasively on his shoulder . 
'It has done me harm , my friend . 
It has aged me , tired me , vexed me , disappointed me . 
It does no man any good to have his patience worn out , and to think himself ill used . 
I fancy , even already , that unavailing attendance on delays and evasions has made you something less elastic than you used to be . 
'Private anxieties may have done that for the moment , said Clennam , 'but not official harrying . 
I am not hurt yet . 
'Then you won't grant my request ? 'Decidedly , No , said Clennam . 
'I should be ashamed if I submitted to be so soon driven out of the field , where a much older and a much more sensitively interested man contended with fortitude so long . 
As there was no moving him , Daniel Doyce returned the grasp of his hand , and , casting a farewell look round the counting house , went down stairs with him . 
The workmen were at the gate to see him off , and were mightily proud of him . 
'Good luck to you , Mr Doyce ! said one of the number . 
Mr Baptist , as a grateful little fellow in a position of trust , was among the workmen , and had done as much towards the cheering as a mere foreigner could . 
'Ah ! You know the song , Cavalletto ? 'By Bacchus , yes , sir ! They all know it in France . 
I have heard it many times , sung by the little children . 
A little voice , very pretty , very innocent . 
Altro ! 'The last time I heard it , returned Arthur , 'was in a voice quite the reverse of pretty , and quite the reverse of innocent . 
He said it more to himself than to his companion , and added to himself , repeating the man's next words . 
'Death of my life , sir , it's my character to be impatient ! 'EH ! cried Cavalletto , astounded , and with all his colour gone in a moment . 
While doing this , with a swiftness incredible to one who has not watched an Italian peasant , he indicated a very remarkable and sinister smile . 
The whole change passed over him like a flash of light , and he stood in the same instant , pale and astonished , before his patron . 
'You have just now described a man who was by when you heard that song have you not ? 'Yes ! said Mr Baptist , nodding fifty times . 
'And was he not called Blandois ? 'No ! said Mr Baptist . 
'Altro , Altro , Altro , Altro ! He could not reject the name sufficiently , with his head and his right forefinger going at once . 
'Stay ! cried Clennam , spreading out the handbill on his desk . 
'Was this the man ? You can understand what I read aloud ? 'Altogether . 
'But look at it , too . 
Come here and look over me , while I read . 
Tell me where you knew the man . 
Cavalletto dropped on one knee , and implored him , with a redundancy of gesticulation , to hear what had brought himself into such foul company . 
'Listen , said Arthur , very seriously . 
'This man , as we have read here , has wholly disappeared . 
'Of it I am well content ! said Cavalletto , raising his eyes piously . 
'A thousand thanks to Heaven ! Accursed assassin ! 'Not so , returned Clennam 'for until something more is heard of him , I can never know an hour's peace . 
'Enough , Benefactor that is quite another thing . 
A million of excuses ! 'Now , Cavalletto , said Clennam , gently turning him by the arm , so that they looked into each other's eyes . 
'I am certain that for the little I have been able to do for you , you are the most sincerely grateful of men . 
'I swear it ! cried the other . 
as grateful to you as you are to me . 
'I know not where to look , cried the little man , kissing Arthur's hand in a transport . 
'I know not where to begin . 
I know not where to go . 
But , courage ! Enough ! It matters not ! I go , in this instant of time ! 'Not a word to any one but me , Cavalletto . 
'Al tro ! cried Cavalletto . 
And was gone with great speed . 
The assurance he now had , that Blandois , whatever his right name , was one of the worst of characters , greatly augmented the burden of his anxieties . 
Though the disappearance should be accounted for to morrow , the fact that his mother had been in communication with such a man , would remain unalterable . 
His advice , energy , activity , money , credit , all his resources whatsoever , were all made useless . 
than she did , when she turned her unyielding face to his in her gloomy room . 
But the light of that day's discovery , shining on these considerations , roused him to take a more decided course of action . 
This was the result of his day's anxiety , and this was the decision he put in practice when the day closed in . 
His first disappointment , on arriving at the house , was to find the door open , and Mr Flintwinch smoking a pipe on the steps . 
If circumstances had been commonly favourable , Mistress Affery would have opened the door to his knock . 
Circumstances being uncommonly unfavourable , the door stood open , and Mr Flintwinch was smoking his pipe on the steps . 
'Good evening , said Arthur . 
'Good evening , said Mr Flintwinch . 
'Have you any news ? said Arthur . 
'We have no news , said Jeremiah . 
'I mean of the foreign man , Arthur explained . 
'I mean of the foreign man , said Jeremiah . 
Yet he was enjoying it in his own way . 
Rather conscious and confused , Arthur asked his pardon , if he had stared at him unpolitely . 
'But my mind runs so much upon this matter , he said , 'that I lose myself . 
'Hah ! Yet I don't see , returned Mr Flintwinch , quite at his leisure , 'why it should trouble YOU , Arthur . 
'No ? 'No , said Mr Flintwinch , very shortly and decidedly much as if he were of the canine race , and snapped at Arthur's hand . 
to let sleeping dogs lie , it's just as advisable , perhaps , to let missing dogs lie . 
They generally turn up soon enough . 
Mr Flintwinch turned short round when he had made this remark , and went into the dark hall . 
'Now , sir , said the testy Jeremiah 'will it be agreeable to walk up stairs ? 'My mother is alone , I suppose ? 'Not alone , said Mr Flintwinch . 
'Mr Casby and his daughter are with her . 
They came in while I was smoking , and I stayed behind to have my smoke out . 
This was the second disappointment . 
Arthur made no remark upon it , and repaired to his mother's room , where Mr Casby and Flora had been taking tea , anchovy paste , and hot buttered toast . 
Flora had spread her bonnet and shawl upon the bed , with a care indicative of an intention to stay some time . 
Seeing this , as he exchanged the usual salutations , Clennam decided to speak to his mother without postponement . 
'Mother , I have heard something to day which I feel persuaded you don't know , and which I think you should know , of the antecedents of that man I saw here . 
'I know nothing of the antecedents of the man you saw here , Arthur . 
He had lowered his own voice but she rejected that advance towards confidence as she rejected every other , and spoke in her usual key and in her usual stern voice . 
'I have received it on no circuitous information it has come to me direct . 
She asked him , exactly as before , if he were there to tell her what it was ? 'I thought it right that you should know it . 
'And what is it ? 'He has been a prisoner in a French gaol . 
She answered with composure , 'I should think that very likely . 
But in a gaol for criminals , mother . 
On an accusation of murder . 
She started at the word , and her looks expressed her natural horror . 
Yet she still spoke aloud , when she demanded 'Who told you so ? 'A man who was his fellow prisoner . 
'That man's antecedents , I suppose , were not known to you , before he told you ? 'No . 
'Though the man himself was ? 'Yes . 
Mrs Clennam's attentive frown expanded by degrees into a severe look of triumph , and she retorted with emphasis , 'Take care how you judge others , then . 
'Mother , shall I do nothing to assist you ? 'Nothing . 
It was not my act it was yours . 
How can you consistently ask me such a question ? You know that you left me to Flintwinch , and that he occupies your place . 
'A prisoner , in a French gaol , on an accusation of murder , repeated Mrs Clennam , steadily going over what her son had said . 
'That is all you know of him from the fellow prisoner ? 'In substance , all . 
This will supply the rest of them here with something new to talk about . 
'What now ? she said with displeasure . 
They were still face to face . 
'What now ? she said again , impatiently . 
'What is it ? 'I did not mean , mother , that you should repeat what I have communicated . 
I think you had better not repeat it . 
'Do you make that a condition with me ? 'Well ! Yes . 
Now , let me go . 
He yielded to her imperious but elated look , and turned her chair back to the place from which he had wheeled it . 
In doing so he saw elation in the face of Mr Flintwinch , which most assuredly was not inspired by Flora . 
Nothing remained but the appeal to his old friend Affery . 
But even to get the very doubtful and preliminary stage of making the appeal , seemed one of the least promising of human undertakings . 
After several abortive attempts to get Affery to look at him while she cleared the table and washed the tea service , Arthur thought of an expedient which Flora might originate . 
She immediately began to work out the hint . 
was undoubtedly an act of pure good nature and no self gratification , intimated that all the house was open to her . 
Flora rose and looked to Arthur for his escort . 
'Certainly , said he , aloud 'and Affery will light us , I dare say . 
'Go before , you fool ! said Jeremiah . 
'Are you going up , or down , Mrs Finching ? Flora answered , 'Down . 
'Then go before , and down , you Affery , said Jeremiah . 
'And do it properly , or I'll come rolling down the banisters , and tumbling over you ! Affery headed the exploring party Jeremiah closed it . 
He had no intention of leaving them . 
Wanting the heart to explain that this was not at all what he meant , Arthur extended his supporting arm round Flora's figure . 
'Oh my goodness me , said she . 
Arthur , fast subsiding into despair , had opened it , when a knock was heard at the outer door . 
Mistress Affery , with a suppressed cry , threw her apron over her head . 
'What ? You want another dose ! said Mr Flintwinch . 
'Affery , speak to me now ! 'Don't touch me , Arthur ! she cried , shrinking from him . 
'He can't see me , returned Arthur , suiting the action to the word , 'if I blow the candle out . 
'He'll hear you , cried Affery . 
'He can't hear me , returned Arthur , suiting the action to the words again , 'if I draw you into this black closet , and speak here . 
Why do you hide your face ? 'Because I am afraid of seeing something . 
'You can't be afraid of seeing anything in this darkness , Affery . 
Much more than if it was light . 
'Why are you afraid ? 'Because the house is full of mysteries and secrets because it's full of whisperings and counsellings because it's full of noises . 
There never was such a house for noises . 
I shall die of 'em , if Jeremiah don't strangle me first . 
As I expect he will . 
'I have never heard any noises here , worth speaking of . 
Here's Jeremiah ! You'll get me killed . 
'I durstn't do it , said Affery , 'I durstn't never , Arthur . 
I'm always blind folded when Jeremiah an't a looking , and sometimes even when he is . 
'He cannot shut the door without my seeing him , said Arthur . 
'You are as safe with me as if he was fifty miles away . 
'Affery , I want to know what is amiss here I want some light thrown on the secrets of this house . 
'I tell you , Arthur , she interrupted , 'noises is the secrets , rustlings and stealings about , tremblings , treads overhead and treads underneath . 
'But those are not all the secrets . 
'I don't know , said Affery . 
'Don't ask me no more . 
Your old sweetheart an't far off , and she's a blabber . 
I am sure you can tell me something connected with the coming here of this man , if you will . 
'Why , then I'll tell you , Arthur , returned Affery 'Jeremiah's coming ! 'No , indeed he is not . 
The door is open , and he is standing outside , talking . 
'I'll tell you then , said Affery , after listening , 'that the first time he ever come he heard the noises his own self . 
What's that ? he said to me . 
I don't know what it is , I says to him , catching hold of him , but I have heard it over and over again . 
While I says it , he stands a looking at me , all of a shake , he do . 
'Has he been here often ? 'Only that night , and the last night . 
'What did you see of him on the last night , after I was gone ? 'Them two clever ones had him all alone to themselves . 
, and he said to me , Now , Affery , he said , I am a coming behind you , my woman , and a going to run you up . 
That's what he calls running me up , he do . 
Those whisperings and counsellings , Affery , that you have spoken of . 
What are they ? 'How should I know ? Don't ask me nothing about 'em , Arthur . 
'Don't ask me nothing , repeated Affery . 
'I have been in a dream for ever so long . 
Go away , go away ! 'You said that before , returned Arthur . 
'You used the same expression that night , at the door , when I asked you what was going on here . 
What do you mean by being in a dream ? 'I an't a going to tell you . 
Get away ! I shouldn't tell you , if you was by yourself much less with your old sweetheart here . 
It was equally vain for Arthur to entreat , and for Flora to protest . 
Affery , who had been trembling and struggling the whole time , turned a deaf ear to all adjuration , and was bent on forcing herself out of the closet . 
'I'd sooner scream to Jeremiah than say another word ! I'll call out to him , Arthur , if you don't give over speaking to me . 
They glided into the places where Jeremiah had left them and Clennam , stepping forward as that old gentleman returned , informed him that he had accidentally extinguished the candle . 
Mr Flintwinch looked on as he re lighted it at the lamp in the hall , and preserved a profound taciturnity respecting the person who had been holding him in conversation . 
Flora , now permanently heavy , did not release Arthur from the survey of the house , until it had extended even to his old garret bedchamber . 
CHAPTER The Evening of a Long Day That illustrious man and great national ornament , Mr Merdle , continued his shining course . 
It began to be widely understood that one who had done society the admirable service of making so much money out of it , could not be suffered to remain a commoner . 
A baronetcy was spoken of with confidence a peerage was frequently mentioned . 
This was reported to have plunged Lord Decimus as nigh to his noble chin in a slough of doubts as so lofty a person could be sunk . 
, Mrs Sparkler had intended to proceed at once to the demolition of the Bosom , when active hostilities had been suspended by the arrival of the Courier with his tidings of death . 
, and the Courier went back again . 
Mr and Mrs Sparkler had been dining alone , with their gloom cast over them , and Mrs Sparkler reclined on a drawing room sofa . 
It was a hot summer Sunday evening . 
The residence in the centre of the habitable globe , at all times stuffed and close as if it had an incurable cold in its head , was that evening particularly stifling . 
Mrs Sparkler , lying on her sofa , looking through an open window at the opposite side of a narrow street over boxes of mignonette and flowers , was tired of the view . 
Mrs Sparkler , looking at another window where her husband stood in the balcony , was tired of that view . 
Mrs Sparkler , looking at herself in her mourning , was even tired of that view though , naturally , not so tired of that as of the other two . 
'It's like lying in a well , said Mrs Sparkler , changing her position fretfully . 
But , as the repartee did not occur to him , he contented himself with coming in from the balcony and standing at the side of his wife's couch . 
He smiled , said , 'I ask your pardon , my dear , and threw it out of window . 
'You make my head ache by remaining in that position , Edmund , said Mrs Sparkler , raising her eyes to him after another minute 'you look so aggravatingly large by this light . 
'Certainly , my dear , said Mr Sparkler , and took a chair on the same spot . 
'If I didn't know that the longest day was past , said Fanny , yawning in a dreary manner , 'I should have felt certain this was the longest day . 
I never did experience such a day . 
'Is that your fan , my love ? asked Mr Sparkler , picking up one and presenting it . 
'Edmund , returned his wife , more wearily yet , 'don't ask weak questions , I entreat you not . 
Whose can it be but mine ? 'Yes , I thought it was yours , said Mr Sparkler . 
'Then you shouldn't ask , retorted Fanny . 
'My dear , said Mr Sparkler , flashing with an original conception , 'I think you must have got the fidgets . 
'Oh , Fidgets ! repeated Mrs Sparkler . 
'My adorable girl , urged Mr Sparkler , 'try your aromatic vinegar . 
I have often seen my mother try it , and it seemingly refreshed her . 
And she is , as I believe you are aware , a remarkably fine woman , with no non 'Good Gracious ! exclaimed Fanny , starting up again . 
'It's beyond all patience ! This is the most wearisome day that ever did dawn upon the world , I am certain . 
Mr Sparkler looked meekly after her as she lounged about the room , and he appeared to be a little frightened . 
'You ought to have told me so before , Fanny complained . 
'My dear , returned Mr Sparkler , rather gratified , 'I didn't know It would interest you , or I would have made a point of telling you . 
'There ! For goodness sake , don't talk , said Fanny 'I want to talk , myself . 
Edmund , we must not be alone any more . 
I must take such precautions as will prevent my being ever again reduced to the state of dreadful depression in which I am this evening . 
'My dear , answered Mr Sparkler 'being as you are well known to be , a remarkably fine woman with no 'Oh , good GRACIOUS ! cried Fanny . 
'Edmund , Edmund , you would wear out a Saint . 
Am I not expressly speaking of my poor uncle ? 'You looked with so much expression at myself , my dear girl , said Mr Sparkler , 'that I felt a little uncomfortable . 
Thank you , my love . 
'Now you have put me out , observed Fanny with a resigned toss of her fan , 'and I had better go to bed . 
'Don't do that , my love , urged Mr Sparkler . 
Fanny took a good deal of time lying back with her eyes shut , and her eyebrows raised with a hopeless expression as if she had utterly given up all terrestrial affairs . 
it's too bad , really ! 'My dear , said Mr Sparkler . 
'I don't think it need keep you at home . 
Mr Sparkler submitted that he had thought 'it might be got over . 
'Got over ! repeated Fanny , with immeasurable scorn . 
'For a time , Mr Sparkler submitted . 
'Especially as it was to be expected , said Mr Sparkler . 
His apology was accepted but Mrs Sparkler requested him to go round to the other side of the sofa and sit in the window curtain , to tone himself down . 
Mr Sparkler's sentiments as to the plan were , in brief , that it had no nonsense about it . 
He added , 'And besides , you know it's likely that you'll soon have your sister 'Dearest Amy , yes ! cried Mrs Sparkler with a sigh of affection . 
'Darling little thing ! Not , however , that Amy would do here alone . 
Mr Sparkler was going to say 'No ? interrogatively , but he saw his danger and said it assentingly , 'No , Oh dear no she wouldn't do here alone . 
'That's it , said Mr Sparkler . 
'Pray don't , Edmund ! Your habit of interrupting without having the least thing in the world to say , distracts one . 
You must be broken of it . 
Speaking of Amy my poor little pet was devotedly attached to poor papa , and no doubt will have lamented his loss exceedingly , and grieved very much . 
I have done so myself . 
I have felt it dreadfully . 
'He couldn't have a better nurse to bring him round , Mr Sparkler made bold to opine . 
, 'and can adopt your words . 
He couldn't have a better nurse to bring him round . 
There are times when my dear child is a little wearing to an active mind but , as a nurse , she is Perfection . 
Best of Amys ! Mr Sparkler , growing rash on his late success , observed that Edward had had , biggodd , a long bout of it , my dear girl . 
'If Bout , Edmund , returned Mrs Sparkler , 'is the slang term for indisposition , he has . 
If it is not , I am unable to give an opinion on the barbarous language you address to Edward's sister . 
Likewise that his extremely careless life has made him a very bad subject for it indeed . 
Mr Sparkler considered it a parallel case to that of some of our fellows in the West Indies with Yellow Jack . 
Mrs Sparkler closed her eyes again , and refused to have any consciousness of our fellows of the West Indies , or of Yellow Jack . 
'So , Amy , she pursued , when she reopened her eyelids , 'will require to be roused from the effects of many tedious and anxious weeks . 
And lastly , she will require to be roused from a low tendency which I know very well to be at the bottom of her heart . 
Don't ask me what it is , Edmund , because I must decline to tell you . 
'I am not going to , my dear , said Mr Sparkler . 
'I shall thus have much improvement to effect in my sweet child , Mrs Sparkler continued , 'and cannot have her near me too soon . 
Amiable and dear little Twoshoes ! As to the settlement of poor papa's affairs , my interest in that is not very selfish . 
Papa behaved very generously to me when I was married , and I have little or nothing to expect . 
Provided he had made no will that can come into force , leaving a legacy to Mrs General , I am contented . 
Dear papa , dear papa . 
She wept again , but Mrs General was the best of restoratives . 
I applaud him for it . 
Low , as if to avoid making a noise and attracting attention . 
Long , as if the person knocking were preoccupied in mind , and forgot to leave off . 
'Halloa ! said Mr Sparkler . 
'Who's this ? 'Not Amy and Edward without notice and without a carriage ! said Mrs Sparkler . 
The room was dark , but the street was lighter , because of its lamps . 
Mr Sparkler's head peeping over the balcony looked so very bulky and heavy that it seemed on the point of overbalancing him and flattening the unknown below . 
'It's one fellow , said Mr Sparkler . 
'I can't see who stop though ! On this second thought he went out into the balcony again and had another look . 
He came back as the door was opened , and announced that he believed he had identified 'his governor's tile . 
He was not mistaken , for his governor , with his tile in his hand , was introduced immediately afterwards . 
'Candles ! said Mrs Sparkler , with a word of excuse for the darkness . 
'It's light enough for me , said Mr Merdle . 
When the candles were brought in , Mr Merdle was discovered standing behind the door , picking his lips . 
'I thought I'd give you a call , he said . 
'I am rather particularly occupied just now and , as I happened to be out for a stroll , I thought I'd give you a call . 
As he was in dinner dress , Fanny asked him where he had been dining ? 'Well , said Mr Merdle , 'I haven't been dining anywhere , particularly . 
'Of course you have dined ? said Fanny . 
'Why no , I haven't exactly dined , said Mr Merdle . 
He had passed his hand over his yellow forehead and considered , as if he were not sure about it . 
Something to eat was proposed . 
'No , thank you , said Mr Merdle , 'I don't feel inclined for it . 
I was to have dined out along with Mrs Merdle . 
But as I didn't feel inclined for dinner , I let Mrs Merdle go by herself just as we were getting into the carriage , and thought I'd take a stroll instead . 
Would he have tea or coffee ? 'No , thank you , said Mr Merdle . 
'I looked in at the Club , and got a bottle of wine . 
At this period of his visit , Mr Merdle took the chair . 
'Flattering to us , said Fanny , 'for you are not a calling man . 
'No no , returned Mr Merdle , who was by this time taking himself into custody under both coat sleeves . 
'No , I am not a calling man . 
'You have too much to do for that , said Fanny . 
'Having so much to do , Mr Merdle , loss of appetite is a serious thing with you , and you must have it seen to . 
You must not be ill . 
'Oh ! I am very well , replied Mr Merdle , after deliberating about it . 
'I am as well as I usually am . 
I am as well as I want to be . 
Mrs Sparkler began to wonder how long the master mind meant to stay . 
'I was speaking of poor papa when you came in , sir . 
'Aye ! Quite a coincidence , said Mr Merdle . 
Fanny did not see that but felt it incumbent on her to continue talking . 
'I was saying , she pursued , 'that my brother's illness has occasioned a delay in examining and arranging papa's property . 
'Yes , said Mr Merdle 'yes . 
There has been a delay . 
'Not that it is of consequence , said Fanny . 
'Not , assented Mr Merdle , after having examined the cornice of all that part of the room which was within his range 'not that it is of any consequence . 
'My only anxiety is , said Fanny , 'that Mrs General should not get anything . 
'She won't get anything , said Mr Merdle . 
Fanny was delighted to hear him express the opinion . 
I dare say she'll manage to do it . 
There was then a long silence during which , Mrs Sparkler , lying back on her sofa again , shut her eyes and raised her eyebrows in her former retirement from mundane affairs . 
'But , however , said Mr Merdle , 'I am equally detaining you and myself . 
I thought I'd give you a call , you know . 
'Charmed , I am sure , said Fanny . 
'So I am off , added Mr Merdle , getting up . 
'Isn't it ? Mr Merdle acquiesced 'but I want one and I know you have got several little wedding keepsakes about , with scissors and tweezers and such things in them . 
You shall have it back to morrow . 
the mother of pearl box on my little table there , and give Mr Merdle the mother of pearl penknife . 
'Thank you , said Mr Merdle 'but if you have got one with a darker handle , I think I should prefer one with a darker handle . 
'Tortoise shell ? 'Thank you , said Mr Merdle 'yes . 
I think I should prefer tortoise shell . 
Edmund accordingly received instructions to open the tortoise shell box , and give Mr Merdle the tortoise shell knife . 
On his doing so , his wife said to the master spirit graciously 'I will forgive you , if you ink it . 
'I'll undertake not to ink it , said Mr Merdle . 
The illustrious visitor then put out his coat cuff , and for a moment entombed Mrs Sparkler's hand wrist , bracelet , and all . 
CHAPTER The Chief Butler Resigns the Seals of Office The dinner party was at the great Physician's . 
Bar was there , and in full force . 
Ferdinand Barnacle was there , and in his most engaging state . 
Few ways of life were hidden from Physician , and he was oftener in its darkest places than even Bishop . 
But Physician was a composed man , who performed neither on his own trumpet , nor on the trumpets of other people . 
He went , like the rain , among the just and unjust , doing all the good he could , and neither proclaiming it in the synagogues nor at the corner of streets . 
Where he was , something real was . 
And half a grain of reality , like the smallest portion of some other scarce natural productions , will flavour an enormous quantity of diluent . 
It came to pass , therefore , that Physician's little dinners always presented people in their least conventional lights . 
Therefore , Physician's guests came out so surprisingly at his round table that they were almost natural . 
and so he liked and respected Physician quite as much as any other kind of man did . 
He now had a little talk on the subject with Mrs Merdle herself sidling up to that lady , of course , with his double eye glass and his jury droop . 
'Really ? said Mrs Merdle . 
'Has not the bird been whispering in very different ears from ours in lovely ears ? He looked expressively at Mrs Merdle's nearest ear ring . 
'Do you mean mine ? asked Mrs Merdle . 
'When I say lovely , said Bar , 'I always mean you . 
'Oh , cruelly unjust ! said Bar . 
'I am the last person in the world to hear news , observed Mrs Merdle , carelessly arranging her stronghold . 
'Who is it ? 'What an admirable witness you would make ! said Bar . 
could resist you , if you were ever so bad a one but you would be such a good one ! 'Why , you ridiculous man ? asked Mrs Merdle , laughing . 
'Do ask it to morrow , and tell me the next time you see me what it says . 
This led to further passages of similar pleasantry between the two but Bar , with all his sharpness , got nothing out of them . 
'To ask me ! Why me ? 'Upon my honour , I think Mr Merdle reposes greater confidence in you than in any one . 
'On the contrary , he tells me absolutely nothing , even professionally . 
You have heard the talk , of course ? Of course I have . 
But you know what Mr Merdle is you know how taciturn and reserved he is . 
I assure you I have no idea what foundation for it there may be . 
I should like it to be true why should I deny that to you ? You would know better , if I did ! 'Just so , said Physician . 
'But whether it is all true , or partly true , or entirely false , I am wholly unable to say . 
It is a most provoking situation , a most absurd situation but you know Mr Merdle , and are not surprised . 
Physician was not surprised , handed her into her carriage , and bade her Good Night . 
He stood for a moment at his own hall door , looking sedately at the elegant equipage as it rattled away . 
On his return up stairs , the rest of the guests soon dispersed , and he was left alone . 
, he sat down comfortably to read . 
The clock upon his study table pointed to a few minutes short of twelve , when his attention was called to it by a ringing at the door bell . 
A man of plain habits , he had sent his servants to bed and must needs go down to open the door . 
He went down , and there found a man without hat or coat , whose shirt sleeves were rolled up tight to his shoulders . 
For a moment , he thought the man had been fighting the rather , as he was much agitated and out of breath . 
A second look , however , showed him that the man was particularly clean , and not otherwise discomposed as to his dress than as it answered this description . 
'I come from the warm baths , sir , round in the neighbouring street . 
'And what is the matter at the warm baths ? 'Would you please to come directly , sir . 
We found that , lying on the table . 
He put into the physician's hand a scrap of paper . 
Physician looked at it , and read his own name and address written in pencil nothing more . 
When they came to the warm baths , all the other people belonging to that establishment were looking out for them at the door , and running up and down the passages . 
The messenger hurried before him , along a grove of little rooms , and turning into one at the end of the grove , looked round the door . 
Physician was close upon him , and looked round the door too . 
There was a bath in that corner , from which the water had been hastily drained off . 
The room was still hot , and the marble of the bath still warm but the face and figure were clammy to the touch . 
The white marble at the bottom of the bath was veined with a dreadful red . 
On the ledge at the side , were an empty laudanum bottle and a tortoise shell handled penknife soiled , but not with ink . 
'Separation of jugular vein death rapid been dead at least half an hour . 
He turned his eyes to the dress upon the sofa , and to the watch , money , and pocket book on the table . 
A folded note half buckled up in the pocket book , and half protruding from it , caught his observant glance . 
He looked at it , touched it , pulled it a little further out from among the leaves , said quietly , 'This is addressed to me , and opened and read it . 
There were no directions for him to give . 
As the light was never there when Bar was not , it gave him assurance that Bar was not yet in bed . 
In fact , this busy bee had a verdict to get to morrow , against evidence , and was improving the shining hours in setting snares for the gentlemen of the jury . 
In consequence , he came down , looking rather wild . 
Seeing Physician , the least expected of men , he looked wilder and said , 'What's the matter ? 'You asked me once what Merdle's complaint was . 
'Extraordinary answer ! I know I did . 
'I told you I had not found out . 
'I have found it out . 
'My God ! said Bar , starting back , and clapping his hand upon the other's breast . 
'And so have I ! I see it in your face . 
They went into the nearest room , where Physician gave him the letter to read . 
He read it through half a dozen times . 
There was not much in it as to quantity but it made a great demand on his close and continuous attention . 
He could not sufficiently give utterance to his regret that he had not himself found a clue to this . 
so he said he would go too , and would loiter to and fro near the house while his friend was inside . 
They walked there , the better to recover self possession in the air and the wings of day were fluttering the night when Physician knocked at the door . 
At last that noble creature came into the dining room in a flannel gown and list shoes but with his cravat on , and a Chief Butler all over . 
Physician had opened the shutters of one window while waiting , that he might see the light . 
'Mrs Merdle's maid must be called , and told to get Mrs Merdle up , and prepare her as gently as she can to see me . 
I have dreadful news to break to her . 
Thus Physician to the Chief Butler . 
The latter , who had a candle in his hand , called his man to take it away . 
Then he approached the window with dignity looking on at Physician's news exactly as he had looked on at the dinners in that very room . 
'I should wish , said the Chief Butler , 'to give a month's notice . 
'Mr Merdle has destroyed himself . 
'Sir , said the Chief Butler , 'that is very unpleasant to the feelings of one in my position , as calculated to awaken prejudice and I should wish to leave immediately . 
'If you are not shocked , are you not surprised , man ? demanded the Physician , warmly . 
The Chief Butler , erect and calm , replied in these memorable words . 
'Sir , Mr Merdle never was the gentleman , and no ungentlemanly act on Mr Merdle's part would surprise me . 
This led to its beginning to be currently whispered all over London by about one , that Mr Merdle had killed himself . 
Pressure , however , so far from being overthrown by the discovery , became a greater favourite than ever . 
There was a general moralising upon Pressure , in every street . 
The idle people improved the occasion in a similar manner . 
See , said they , what you brought yourself to by work , work , work ! You persisted in working , you overdid it . 
But , at about the time of High 'Change , Pressure began to wane , and appalling whispers to circulate , east , west , north , and south . 
, on the part of the wonderful Bank . 
As the whispers became louder , which they did from that time every minute , they became more threatening . 
In steady progression , as the day declined , the talk rose in sound and purpose . 
For by that time it was known that the late Mr Merdle's complaint had been simply Forgery and Robbery . 
CHAPTER Reaping the Whirlwind With a precursory sound of hurried breath and hurried feet , Mr Pancks rushed into Arthur Clennam's Counting house . 
The Inquest was over , the letter was public , the Bank was broken , the other model structures of straw had taken fire and were turned to smoke . 
The usual diligence and order of the Counting house at the Works were overthrown . 
Unopened letters and unsorted papers lay strewn about the desk . 
Mr Pancks rushed in and saw him , and stood still . 
Mr Pancks was the first to lift up his head and speak . 
'I persuaded you to it , Mr Clennam . 
You can't say more to me than I say to myself . 
You can't say more than I deserve . 
'O , Pancks , Pancks ! returned Clennam , 'don't speak of deserving . 
What do I myself deserve ! 'Better luck , said Pancks . 
'Reproach me ! cried Pancks . 
'Reproach me , sir , or I'll do myself an injury . 
Say , You fool , you villain . 
Say , Ass , how could you do it Beast , what did you mean by it ! Catch hold of me somewhere . 
Say something abusive to me ! All the time , Mr Pancks was tearing at his tough hair in a most pitiless and cruel manner . 
Their former attitudes and their former silence were once more first encroached upon by Pancks . 
'Not been to bed , sir , since it began to get about . 
Been high and low , on the chance of finding some hope of saving any cinders from the fire . 
'I know it , returned Clennam , 'too well . 
Mr Pancks filled up a pause with a groan that came out of the very depths of his soul . 
'Only yesterday , Pancks , said Arthur 'only yesterday , Monday , I had the fixed intention of selling , realising , and making an end of it . 
'I can't say as much for myself , sir , returned Pancks . 
'Mr Clennam , had you laid out everything ? He got over the break before the last word , and also brought out the last word itself with great difficulty . 
Mr Pancks took hold of his tough hair again , and gave it such a wrench that he pulled out several prongs of it . 
After looking at these with an eye of wild hatred , he put them in his pocket . 
'My course , said Clennam , brushing away some tears that had been silently dropping down his face , 'must be taken at once . 
What wretched amends I can make must be made . 
I must clear my unfortunate partner's reputation . 
I must retain nothing for myself . 
'Is it impossible , sir , to tide over the present ? 'Out of the question . 
Nothing can be tided over now , Pancks . 
The sooner the business can pass out of my hands , the better for it . 
All last night I thought of what I would do what remains is to do it . 
'Not entirely of yourself ? said Pancks , whose face was as damp as if his steam were turning into water as fast as he dismally blew it off . 
'There is not much to do . 
He will do it as well as another . 
'Shall I fetch Rugg , Mr Clennam ? 'If you could spare the time , I should be much obliged to you . 
Mr Pancks put on his hat that moment , and steamed away to Pentonville . 
While he was gone Arthur never raised his head from the desk , but remained in that one position . 
Mr Pancks brought his friend and professional adviser , Mr Rugg , back with him . 
Mr Pancks , crushed and submissive , obeyed . 
'He is not unlike what my daughter was , sir , when we began the Breach of Promise action of Rugg and Bawkins , in which she was Plaintiff , said Mr Rugg . 
'He takes too strong and direct an interest in the case . 
His feelings are worked upon . 
There is no getting on , in our profession , with feelings worked upon , sir . 
As he pulled off his gloves and put them in his hat , he saw , in a side glance or two , that a great change had come over his client . 
'I am sorry to perceive , sir , said Mr Rugg , 'that you have been allowing your own feelings to be worked upon . 
Now , pray don't , pray don't . 
These losses are much to be deplored , sir , but we must look 'em in the face . 
'If the money I have sacrificed had been all my own , Mr Rugg , sighed Mr Clennam , 'I should have cared far less . 
'Indeed , sir ? said Mr Rugg , rubbing his hands with a cheerful air . 
I have generally found , in my experience , that it's their own money people are most particular about . 
I have seen people get rid of a good deal of other people's money , and bear it very well very well indeed . 
With these comforting remarks , Mr Rugg seated himself on an office stool at the desk and proceeded to business . 
'Now , Mr Clennam , by your leave , let us go into the matter . 
Let us see the state of the case . 
The question is the usual plain , straightforward , common sense question . 
What can we do for ourself ? What can we do for ourself ? 'This is not the question with me , Mr Rugg , said Arthur . 
'You mistake it in the beginning . 
I don't like the term reparation , sir , except as a lever in the hands of counsel . 
If your disapproval of it should render you unwilling to discharge such business as it necessitates , I am sorry for it , and must seek other aid . 
But I will represent to you at once , that to argue against it with me is useless . 
'Good , sir , answered Mr Rugg , shrugging his shoulders . 
Since the business is to be done by some hands , let it be done by mine . 
Such was my principle in the case of Rugg and Bawkins . 
Such is my principle in most cases . 
Clennam then proceeded to state to Mr Rugg his fixed resolution . 
'I offer no objection , sir , said he , 'I argue no point with you . 
I will carry out your views , sir but , under protest . 
Mr Rugg then stated , not without prolixity , the heads of his protest . 
He therefore , once and for all , requested Mr Rugg's immediate aid in getting the business despatched . 
The disclosure was made , and the storm raged fearfully . 
Thousands of people were wildly staring about for somebody alive to heap reproaches on and this notable case , courting publicity , set the living somebody so much wanted , on a scaffold . 
When people who had nothing to do with the case were so sensible of its flagrancy , people who lost money by it could scarcely be expected to deal mildly with it . 
'I must take the consequences of what I have done , said Clennam . 
'The writs will find me here . 
There he found Mr Rugg . 
'I thought I'd wait for you here . 
I wouldn't go on to the Counting house this morning if I was you , sir . 
'Why not , Mr Rugg ? 'There are as many as five out , to my knowledge . 
'It cannot be too soon over , said Clennam . 
'Let them take me at once . 
'Yes , but , said Mr Rugg , getting between him and the door , 'hear reason , hear reason . 
They'll take you soon enough , Mr Clennam , I don't doubt but , hear reason . 
It almost always happens , in these cases , that some insignificant matter pushes itself in front and makes much of itself . 
Now , I find there's a little one out a mere Palace Court jurisdiction and I have reason to believe that a caption may be made upon that . 
I wouldn't be taken upon that . 
'Why not ? asked Clennam . 
'I'd be taken on a full grown one , sir , said Mr Rugg . 
'It's as well to keep up appearances . 
As your professional adviser , I should prefer your being taken on a writ from one of the Superior Courts , if you have no objection to do me that favour . 
'Mr Rugg , said Arthur , in his dejection , 'my only wish is , that it should be over . 
I will go on , and take my chance . 
'Another word of reason , sir ! cried Mr Rugg . 
'Now , this is reason . 
The other may be taste but this is reason . 
If you should be taken on a little one , sir , you would go to the Marshalsea . 
Now , you know what the Marshalsea is . 
Whereas in the King's Bench Mr Rugg waved his right hand freely , as expressing abundance of space . 
'I would rather , said Clennam , 'be taken to the Marshalsea than to any other prison . 
'Do you say so indeed , sir ? returned Mr Rugg . 
'Then this is taste , too , and we may be walking . 
He was a little offended at first , but he soon overlooked it . 
They walked through the Yard to the other end . 
The Bleeding Hearts were more interested in Arthur since his reverses than formerly now regarding him as one who was true to the place and had taken up his freedom . 
Many of them came out to look after him , and to observe to one another , with great unctuousness , that he was 'pulled down by it . 
Mrs Plornish and her father stood at the top of the steps at their own end , much depressed and shaking their heads . 
There was nobody visibly in waiting when Arthur and Mr Rugg arrived at the Counting house . 
But an elderly member of the Jewish persuasion , preserved in rum , followed them close , and looked in at the glass before Mr Rugg had opened one of the day's letters . 
'Oh ! said Mr Rugg , looking up . 
'How do you do ? Step in Mr Clennam , I think this is the gentleman I was mentioning . 
This gentleman explained the object of his visit to be 'a tyfling madder ob bithznithz , and executed his legal function . 
'Shall I accompany you , Mr Clennam ? asked Mr Rugg politely , rubbing his hands . 
'I would rather go alone , thank you . 
Be so good as send me my clothes . 
Mr Rugg in a light airy way replied in the affirmative , and shook hands with him . 
He and his attendant then went down stairs , got into the first conveyance they found , and drove to the old gates . 
Both were more astonished on seeing who the prisoner was , than one might have thought turnkeys would have been . 
Presently afterwards , Young John disappeared into the jail . 
It was by Young John and he said , 'You can come now . 
He got up and followed Young John . 
When they had gone a step or two within the inner iron gate , Young John turned and said to him 'You want a room . 
I have got you one . 
Young John turned again , and took him in at the old doorway , up the old staircase , into the old room . 
Arthur stretched out his hand . 
Young John looked at it , looked at him sternly swelled , choked , and said 'I don't know as I can . 
No , I find I can't . 
But I thought you'd like the room , and here it is for you . 
to the feelings which the empty room awakened in Clennam's wounded breast , and to the crowding associations with the one good and gentle creature who had sanctified it . 
Arthur Clennam dropped into a solitary arm chair , itself as faded as any debtor in the jail , and yielded himself to his thoughts . 
None of us clearly know to whom or to what we are indebted in this wise , until some marked stop in the whirling wheel of life brings the right perception with it . 
It comes with sickness , it comes with sorrow , it comes with the loss of the dearly loved , it is one of the most frequent uses of adversity . 
It came to Clennam in his adversity , strongly and tenderly . 
So always as he sat alone in the faded chair , thinking . 
Until it seemed to him as if he met the reward of having wandered away from her , and suffered anything to pass between him and his remembrance of her virtues . 
His door was opened , and the head of the elder Chivery was put in a very little way , without being turned towards him . 
'I am off the Lock , Mr Clennam , and going out . 
Can I do anything for you ? 'Many thanks . 
'You'll excuse me opening the door , said Mr Chivery 'but I couldn't make you hear . 
'Did you knock ? 'Half a dozen times . 
Rousing himself , Clennam observed that the prison had awakened from its noontide doze , that the inmates were loitering about the shady yard , and that it was late in the afternoon . 
He had been thinking for hours . 
'Your things is come , said Mr Chivery , 'and my son is going to carry 'em up . 
I should have sent 'em up but for his wishing to carry 'em himself . 
Indeed he would have 'em himself , and so I couldn't send 'em up . 
This was native delicacy in Mr Chivery true politeness though his exterior had very much of a turnkey about it , and not the least of a gentleman . 
'Thank you , sir , said Mr Chivery , without advancing 'it's no odds me coming in . 
in case you find him cut up anyways difficult . 
My son has a 'art , and my son's 'art is in the right place . 
Me and his mother knows where to find it , and we find it sitiwated correct . 
With this mysterious speech , Mr Chivery took his ear away and shut the door . 
He might have been gone ten minutes , when his son succeeded him . 
'Here's your portmanteau , he said to Arthur , putting it carefully down . 
'It's very kind of you . 
I am ashamed that you should have the trouble . 
He was gone before it came to that but soon returned , saying exactly as before , 'Here's your black box which he also put down with care . 
'I am very sensible of this attention . 
I hope we may shake hands now , Mr John . 
No I find I can't ! He then stood regarding the prisoner sternly , though with a swelling humour in his eyes that looked like pity . 
'Why are you angry with me , said Clennam , 'and yet so ready to do me these kind services ? There must be some mistake between us . 
If I have done anything to occasion it I am sorry . 
'No mistake , sir , returned John , turning the wrist backwards and forwards in the socket , for which it was rather tight . 
Arthur looked at him for a moment in some wonder , and some little anger . 
'Well , well ! he said . 
'A mistake , a mistake ! Turning away , he sat down with a heavy sigh in the faded chair again . 
I am not worth it . 
'This furniture , sir , said Young John in a voice of mild and soft explanation , 'belongs to me . 
I am in the habit of letting it out to parties without furniture , that have the room . 
It an't much , but it's at your service . 
I could not think of letting you have it on any other terms . 
You're welcome to it for nothing . 
Arthur raised his head again to thank him , and to say he could not accept the favour . 
John was still turning his wrist , and still contending with himself in his former divided manner . 
'What is the matter between us ? said Arthur . 
'I decline to name it , sir , returned Young John , suddenly turning loud and sharp . 
Arthur looked at him again , in vain , for an explanation of his behaviour . 
After a while , Arthur turned away his head again . 
I bought it of an individual that he gave it to , and that lived here after him . 
But the individual wasn't any ways equal to him . 
Most individuals would find it hard to come up to his level . 
Arthur drew the little table nearer , rested his arm upon it , and kept it there . 
'Perhaps you may not be aware , sir , said Young John , 'that I intruded upon him when he was over here in London . 
He looked , to me , a good deal changed , and I said so when I came back . 
'Since you do put me the question , I am sorry I can't answer it . 
However , he spoke very handsome afterwards very handsome . 
They were both silent for several minutes except that Young John remarked , at about the middle of the pause , 'He both spoke and acted very handsome . 
'I have no appetite just now . 
'The more reason why you should take some support , sir , urged Young John . 
I'm going to have tea in my own apartment . 
If it's not a liberty , please to come and take a cup . 
Or I can bring a tray here in two minutes . 
Young John locked his door for him as they went out , slided the key into his pocket with great dexterity , and led the way to his own residence . 
It was at the top of the house nearest to the gateway . 
It was the room to which Clennam had hurried on the day when the enriched family had left the prison for ever , and where he had lifted her insensible from the floor . 
He foresaw where they were going as soon as their feet touched the staircase . 
Young John looked hard at him , biting his fingers . 
Alone , he did not try . 
He had his hand on the insensible wall as tenderly as if it had been herself that he touched , and pronounced her name in a low voice . 
When these were arranged upon the table to his satisfaction , they sat down to tea . 
Clennam tried to do honour to the meal , but unavailingly . 
The ham sickened him , the bread seemed to turn to sand in his mouth . 
He could force nothing upon himself but a cup of tea . 
'Try a little something green , said Young John , handing him the basket . 
seemed to blow a faint simoom of ham through the whole Marshalsea . 
'Try a little more something green , sir , said Young John and again handed the basket . 
As if the difficulty were contagious , Young John soon pushed away his own plate , and fell to folding the cabbage leaf that had contained the ham . 
'Truly , returned Arthur , with a sigh and a smile , 'I don't know for whose . 
Mr Clennam , I am surprised that a gentleman who is capable of having a heart of his own , should be capable of the heartlessness of treating mine in that way . 
I am astonished at it , sir . 
'I had got over it , sir , said John . 
'I had conquered it , knowing that it must be conquered , and had come to the resolution to think no more about it . 
I got out of it . 
I struggled , and got out of it . 
If it was the last word I had to speak , against that vortex with my utmost powers I strove , and out of it I came . 
I argued that if I had been rude , apologies was due , and those apologies without a question of demeaning , I did make . 
'I hadn't , John declared , 'no , I hadn't , and I never had the audaciousness to think , I am sure , that all was anything but lost . 
It's all very well to trample on it , but it's there . 
It may be that it couldn't be trampled upon if it wasn't there . 
The world may sneer at a turnkey , but he's a man when he isn't a woman , which among female criminals he's expected to be . 
'It seems to me just possible , said Arthur , when he had retraced the conversation to the water cresses and back again , 'that you have made some reference to Miss Dorrit . 
'It is just possible , sir , returned John Chivery . 
Did you ever hear from Mrs Chivery , your mother , that I went to see her once ? 'No , sir , returned John , shortly . 
'Never heard of such a thing . 
Can you imagine why ? 'No , sir , returned John , shortly . 
I was solicitous to promote Miss Dorrit's happiness and if I could have supposed that Miss Dorrit returned your affection Poor John Chivery turned crimson to the tips of his ears . 
'Miss Dorrit never did , sir . 
She was far above me in all respects at all times . 
As likewise , added John , 'similarly was her gen teel family . 
'You speak , john , he said , with cordial admiration , 'like a Man . 
'Well , sir , returned John , brushing his hand across his eyes , 'then I wish you'd do the same . 
He was quick with this unexpected retort , and it again made Arthur regard him with a wondering expression of face . 
Another's merits have had their weight , and have had far more weight with Me . 
'Oh ! why not , John repeated with returning scorn , 'why not speak free ! 'I declare to you , returned Arthur , 'that I do not understand you . 
Consider the trouble I have been in . 
Is it likely that I would wilfully add to my other self reproaches , that of being ungrateful or treacherous to you . 
I do not understand you . 
john's incredulous face slowly softened into a face of doubt . 
He rose , backed into the garret window of the room , beckoned Arthur to come there , and stood looking at him thoughtfully . 
'Mr Clennam , do you mean to say that you don't know ? 'What , John ? 'Lord , said Young John , appealing with a gasp to the spikes on the wall . 
'He says , What ! Clennam looked at the spikes , and looked at John and looked at the spikes , and looked at John . 
'See this room ? 'Why , of course I see this room . 
For how often have I seen Miss Dorrit here when she has not seen me ! 'Witnesses of what ? said Clennam . 
'For whom ? 'You , said John . 
If he had dealt Clennam a heavy blow , instead of laying that light touch upon him , its effect could not have been to shake him more . 
'Me ! he at length said aloud . 
'Ah ! groaned Young John . 
'You ! He did what he could to muster a smile , and returned , 'Your fancy . 
'I mistaken , sir ! said Young John . 
I completely mistaken on that subject ! No , Mr Clennam , don't tell me so . 
On any other , if you like , for I don't set up to be a penetrating character , and am well aware of my own deficiencies . 
Having dried them , and indulged in the harmless luxury of a sob and a sniff , he put it up again . 
The touch was still in its influence so like a blow that Arthur could not get many words together to close the subject with . 
He assured John Chivery when he had returned his handkerchief to his pocket , that he did all honour to his disinterestedness and to the fidelity of his remembrance of Miss Dorrit . 
Feeling low spirited and weary , he would go back to his room , with john's leave , and come out no more that night . 
John assented , and he crept back in the shadow of the wall to his own lodging . 
Little Dorrit love him ! More bewildering to him than his misery , far . 
Yet she might not have thought him old . 
Something reminded him that he had not thought himself so , until the roses had floated away upon the river . 
He had her two letters among other papers in his box , and he took them out and read them . 
There seemed to be a sound in them like the sound of her sweet voice . 
It fell upon his ear with many tones of tenderness , that were not insusceptible of the new meaning . 
But it had a preponderating tendency , when considered , to become fainter . 
There was another and a curious inquiry of his own heart's that concurrently became stronger . 
Quite as he might have kissed her , if she had been conscious ? No difference ? The darkness found him occupied with these thoughts . 
The darkness also found Mr and Mrs Plornish knocking at his door . 
They brought with them a basket , filled with choice selections from that stock in trade which met with such a quick sale and produced such a slow return . 
Mrs Plornish was affected to tears . 
Mr Plornish amiably growled , in his philosophical but not lucid manner , that there was ups you see , and there was downs . 
It was in vain to ask why ups , why downs there they was , you know . 
What Mr Plornish said was , wery well then . 
It further happened that Mrs Plornish , not being philosophical , was intelligible . 
'The way father has been talking about you , Mr Clennam , said Mrs Plornish , 'you hardly would believe . 
It's made him quite poorly . 
As to his voice , this misfortune has took it away . 
You know what a sweet singer father is but he couldn't get a note out for the children at tea , if you'll credit what I tell you . 
While speaking , Mrs Plornish shook her head , and wiped her eyes , and looked retrospectively about the room . 
'As to Mr Baptist , pursued Mrs Plornish , 'whatever he'll do when he comes to know of it , I can't conceive nor yet imagine . 
He'd have been here before now , you may be sure , but that he's away on confidential business of your own . 
Though not conceited , Mrs Plornish felt that she had turned this Tuscan sentence with peculiar elegance . 
Mr Plornish could not conceal his exultation in her accomplishments as a linguist . 
'But what I say is , Mr Clennam , the good woman went on , 'there's always something to be thankful for , as I am sure you will yourself admit . 
Speaking in this room , it's not hard to think what the present something is . 
It's a thing to be thankful for , indeed , that Miss Dorrit is not here to know it . 
Arthur thought she looked at him with particular expression . 
'It's a thing , reiterated Mrs Plornish , 'to be thankful for , indeed , that Miss Dorrit is far away . 
It's to be hoped she is not likely to hear of it . 
There's nothing I can think of , that would have touched Miss Dorrit so bad as that . 
Of a certainty Mrs Plornish did look at him now , with a sort of quivering defiance in her friendly emotion . 
Father's own words was , Much to be rejoiced in , Mary , that Miss Dorrit is not on the spot to behold it . 
And I tell you nothing but what did pass betwixt me and father . 
Mr Plornish , as being of a more laconic temperament , embraced this opportunity of interposing with the suggestion that she should now leave Mr Clennam to himself . 
Finally , the worthy couple went away arm in arm . 
Little Dorrit , Little Dorrit . 
Always Little Dorrit ! Happily , if it ever had been so , it was over , and better over . 
and that the Marshalsea gate had shut for ever on all those perplexed possibilities of a time that was gone . 
Looking back upon his own poor story , she was its vanishing point . 
Every thing in its perspective led to her innocent figure . 
As ill at ease as on the first night of his lying down to sleep within those dreary walls , he wore the night out with such thoughts . 
CHAPTER An Appearance in the Marshalsea The opinion of the community outside the prison gates bore hard on Clennam as time went on , and he made no friends among the community within . 
Some said he was proud some objected that he was sullen and reserved some were contemptuous of him , for that he was a poor spirited dog who pined under his debts . 
Imprisonment began to tell upon him . 
He knew that he idled and moped . 
After what he had known of the influences of imprisonment within the four small walls of the very room he occupied , this consciousness made him afraid of himself . 
Shrinking from the observation of other men , and shrinking from his own , he began to change very sensibly . 
Anybody might see that the shadow of the wall was dark upon him . 
He arose and opened it , and an agreeable voice accosted him with 'How do you do , Mr Clennam ? I hope I am not unwelcome in calling to see you . 
It was the sprightly young Barnacle , Ferdinand . 
He looked very good natured and prepossessing , though overpoweringly gay and free , in contrast with the squalid prison . 
'You are surprised to see me , Mr Clennam , he said , taking the seat which Clennam offered him . 
'I must confess to being much surprised . 
'Not disagreeably , I hope ? 'By no means . 
that our place has had nothing to do with it ? 'Your office ? 'Our Circumlocution place . 
'I cannot charge any part of my reverses upon that remarkable establishment . 
Upon my life , said the vivacious young Barnacle , 'I am heartily glad to know it . 
It is quite a relief to me to hear you say it . 
I should have so exceedingly regretted our place having had anything to do with your difficulties . 
Clennam again assured him that he absolved it of the responsibility . 
'That's right , said Ferdinand . 
'I am very happy to hear it . 
We don't want to do it but if men will be gravelled , why we can't help it . 
'Without giving an unqualified assent to what you say , returned Arthur , gloomily , 'I am much obliged to you for your interest in me . 
'No , but really ! Our place is , said the easy young Barnacle , 'the most inoffensive place possible . 
You'll say we are a humbug . 
I won't say we are not but all that sort of thing is intended to be , and must be . 
Don't you see ? 'I do not , said Clennam . 
'You don't regard it from the right point of view . 
It is the point of view that is the essential thing . 
Regard our place from the point of view that we only ask you to leave us alone , and we are as capital a Department as you'll find anywhere . 
'Is your place there to be left alone ? asked Clennam . 
'You exactly hit it , returned Ferdinand . 
'It is there with the express intention that everything shall be left alone . 
That is what it means . 
That is what it's for . 
No doubt there's a certain form to be kept up that it's for something else , but it's only a form . 
Why , good Heaven , we are nothing but forms ! Think what a lot of our forms you have gone through . 
And you have never got any nearer to an end ? 'Never , said Clennam . 
'Look at it from the right point of view , and there you have us official and effectual . 
It's like a limited game of cricket . 
A field of outsiders are always going in to bowl at the Public Service , and we block the balls . 
'And this occasions me to congratulate myself again , he pursued , 'on the circumstance that our place has had nothing to do with your temporary retirement . 
Mr Clennam , I am quite unreserved with you . 
As between yourself and myself , I know I may be . 
something to the effect that if I were you , I wouldn't bother myself . 
However , you did bother yourself , and you have since bothered yourself . 
Now , don't do it any more . 
'I am not likely to have the opportunity , said Clennam . 
'Oh yes , you are ! You'll leave here . 
There are no ends of ways of leaving here . 
Now , don't come back to us . 
That entreaty is the second object of my call . 
Pray , don't come back to us . 
Upon my honour , said Ferdinand in a very friendly and confiding way , 'I shall be greatly vexed if you don't take warning by the past and keep away from us . 
'And the invention ? said Clennam . 
'My good fellow , returned Ferdinand , 'if you'll excuse the freedom of that form of address , nobody wants to know of the invention , and nobody cares twopence halfpenny about it . 
'Nobody in the Office , that is to say ? 'Nor out of it . 
Everybody is ready to dislike and ridicule any invention . 
You have no idea how many people want to be left alone . 
tends to being left alone . 
'If I could believe that , said Clennam , 'it would be a dismal prospect for all of us . 
'Oh ! Don't say so ! returned Ferdinand . 
We must have humbug , we all like humbug , we couldn't get on without humbug . 
A little humbug , and a groove , and everything goes on admirably , if you leave it alone . 
Nothing could be more agreeable than his frank and courteous bearing , or adapted with a more gentlemanly instinct to the circumstances of his visit . 
'He must have been an exceedingly clever fellow , said Ferdinand Barnacle . 
Arthur , not being in the mood to extol the memory of the deceased , was silent . 
'A consummate rascal , of course , said Ferdinand , 'but remarkably clever ! One cannot help admiring the fellow . 
Must have been such a master of humbug . 
Knew people so well got over them so completely did so much with them ! In his easy way , he was really moved to genuine admiration . 
'I hope , said Arthur , 'that he and his dupes may be a warning to people not to have so much done with them again . 
When they can be got to believe that the kettle is made of the precious metals , in that fact lies the whole power of men like our late lamented . 
Good day ! I hope that when I have the pleasure of seeing you , next , this passing cloud will have given place to sunshine . 
Don't come a step beyond the door . 
I know the way out perfectly . 
He must have passed Mr Rugg on his way out , for , a minute or two afterwards , that ruddy headed gentleman shone in at the door , like an elderly Phoebus . 
'How do you do to day , sir ? said Mr Rugg . 
'Is there any little thing I can do for you to day , sir ? 'No , I thank you . 
'I still look round , from time to time , sir , said Mr Rugg , cheerfully , 'to see whether any lingering Detainers are accumulating at the gate . 
They have fallen in pretty thick , sir as thick as we could have expected . 
He remarked upon the circumstance as if it were matter of congratulation rubbing his hands briskly , and rolling his head a little . 
'As thick , repeated Mr Rugg , 'as we could reasonably have expected . 
Quite a shower bath of 'em . 
But I am here pretty well every day , sir . 
Would this be an unseasonable time , sir , asked Mr Rugg , coaxingly , 'for me to offer an observation ? 'As seasonable a time as any other . 
'Hum ! Public opinion , sir , said Mr Rugg , 'has been busy with you . 
The fact is , we must do it . 
'I cannot set myself right with it , Mr Rugg , and have no business to expect that I ever shall . 
'Don't say that , sir , don't say that . 
'Well , sir , well ! But is it good taste , is it good taste ? That's the Question . 
Mr Rugg was so soothingly persuasive as to be quite pathetic . 
It is not in keeping . 
I can't tell you , sir , in how many quarters I heard it mentioned . 
They hurt me on your account . 
Again , only this morning at breakfast . 
was expressing her great surprise her great surprise . 
But , knowing your considerate character and general wish to oblige , I will repeat that I should prefer your being in the Bench . 
Your case has made a noise it is a creditable case to be professionally concerned in I should feel on a better standing with my connection , if you went to the Bench . 
Don't let that influence you , sir . 
I merely state the fact . 
Pray , let it be let it be ! Mr Rugg , without concealing that he was nettled and mortified , replied 'Oh ! Beyond a doubt , sir . 
I have travelled out of the record , sir , I am aware , in putting the point to you . 
Personally , said Mr Rugg , 'I have no opinion on the topic . 
'That's well , returned Arthur . 
'Oh ! None at all , sir ! said Mr Rugg . 
But it was not my business . 
But my course as a professional machine is clear I have nothing to do with it . 
Is it your good pleasure to see the gentleman , sir ? 'Who is waiting to see me , did you say ? 'I did take that unprofessional liberty , sir . 
Hearing that I was your professional adviser , he declined to interpose before my very limited function was performed . 
Happily , said Mr Rugg , with sarcasm , 'I did not so far travel out of the record as to ask the gentleman for his name . 
'I suppose I have no resource but to see him , sighed Clennam , wearily . 
'Then it IS your good pleasure , sir ? retorted Rugg . 
'Am I honoured by your instructions to mention as much to the gentleman , as I pass out ? I am ? Thank you , sir . 
His leave he took accordingly , in dudgeon . 
It appeared to ascend them , not very promptly or spontaneously , yet with a display of stride and clatter meant to be insulting . 
As it paused for a moment on the landing outside his door , he could not recall his association with the peculiarity of its sound , though he thought he had one . 
Only a moment was given him for consideration . 
His door was immediately swung open by a thump , and in the doorway stood the missing Blandois , the cause of many anxieties . 
'Salve , fellow jail bird ! said he . 
'You want me , it seems . 
Here I am ! Before Arthur could speak to him in his indignant wonder , Cavalletto followed him into the room . 
Neither of the two had been there since its present occupant had had possession of it . 
in which he had sat before the same man in the deeper shade of another prison , one hot morning at Marseilles . 
'I have it on the witnessing of these two madmen , said Monsieur Blandois , otherwise Lagnier , otherwise Rigaud , 'that you want me , brother bird . 
'You villain of ill omen ! said Arthur . 
'You have purposely cast a dreadful suspicion upon my mother's house . 
Why have you done it ? What prompted you to the devilish invention ? Monsieur Rigaud , after frowning at him for a moment , laughed . 
'Hear this noble gentleman ! Listen , all the world , to this creature of Virtue ! But take care , take care . 
It is possible , my friend , that your ardour is a little compromising . 
Holy Blue ! It is possible . 
'Signore ! interposed Cavalletto , also addressing Arthur 'for to commence , hear me ! I received your instructions to find him , Rigaud is it not ? 'It is the truth . 
I ask them what news in Londra , of foreigners arrived . 
Then I go among the French . 
Then I go among the Germans . 
The great part of us know well the other , and they all tell me . 
But ! no person can tell me nothing of him , Rigaud . 
But ! At this significant Italian rest on the word 'But , his backhanded shake of his right forefinger came into play a very little , and very cautiously . 
But ! with another rest upon the word , 'who sometimes in the after dinner , walks , and smokes . 
I ask where is this certain place . 
believes it is here , one believes it is there . 
Eh well ! It is not here , it is not there . 
At last I find it . 
Then I watch then I hide , until he walks and smokes . 
'Eh well , Signore ! he cried in conclusion , addressing Arthur again . 
'I waited for a good opportunity . 
I writed some words to Signor Panco , an air of novelty came over Mr Pancks with this designation , 'to come and help . 
I showed him , Rigaud , at his window , to Signor Panco , who was often the spy in the day . 
I slept at night near the door of the house . 
At the close of this recital , Arthur turned his eyes upon the impudent and wicked face . 
As it met his , the nose came down over the moustache and the moustache went up under the nose . 
'Now , Philosopher ! said Rigaud . 
'You shall be taken there , and be publicly seen . 
I want to know , moreover , what business you had there when I had a burning desire to fling you down stairs . 
Don't frown at me , man ! I have seen enough of you to know that you are a bully and coward . 
I need no revival of my spirits from the effects of this wretched place to tell you so plain a fact , and one that you know so well . 
His indecision was soon gone . 
He sat himself down with a threatening swagger , and said 'Give me a bottle of wine . 
You can buy wine here . 
Send one of your madmen to get me a bottle of wine . 
I won't talk to you without wine . 
Come ! Yes or no ? 'Fetch him what he wants , Cavalletto , said Arthur , scornfully , producing the money . 
'Contraband beast , added Rigaud , 'bring Port wine ! I'll drink nothing but Porto Porto . 
The contraband beast , however , assuring all present , with his significant finger , that he peremptorily declined to leave his post at the door , Signor Panco offered his services . 
, was already opened for use . 
'Madman ! A large glass , said Rigaud . 
Signor Panco put a tumbler before him not without a visible conflict of feeling on the question of throwing it at his head . 
'Once a gentleman , and always a gentleman . 
A gentleman from the beginning , and a gentleman to the end . 
'Hah ! smacking his lips . 
'Not a very old prisoner that ! I judge by your looks , brave sir , that imprisonment will subdue your blood much sooner than it softens this hot wine . 
You are mellowing losing body and colour already . 
I salute you ! He tossed off another half glass holding it up both before and afterwards , so as to display his small , white hand . 
'To business , he then continued . 
You have shown yourself more free of speech than body , sir . 
'I have used the freedom of telling you what you know yourself to be . 
You know yourself , as we all know you , to be far worse than that . 
'Add , always a gentleman , and it's no matter . 
Except in that regard , we are all alike . 
For example you couldn't for your life be a gentleman I couldn't for my life be otherwise . 
How great the difference ! Let us go on . 
Words , sir , never influence the course of the cards , or the course of the dice . 
Do you know that ? You do ? I also play a game , and words are without power over it . 
'No , my son , he resumed , with a snap of his fingers . 
'I play my game to the end in spite of words and Death of my Body and Death of my Soul ! I'll win it . 
I described my precious commodity , and fixed my price . 
Touching the bargain , your admirable mother was a little too calm , too stolid , too immovable and statue like . 
In fine , your admirable mother vexed me . 
To make variety in my position , and to amuse myself what ! a gentleman must be amused at somebody's expense ! I conceived the happy idea of disappearing . 
An idea , see you , that your characteristic mother and my Flintwinch would have been well enough pleased to execute . 
Ah ! Bah , bah , bah , don't look as from high to low at me ! I repeat it . 
Well enough pleased , excessively enchanted , and with all their hearts ravished . 
How strongly will you have it ? He threw out the lees of his glass on the ground , so that they nearly spattered Cavalletto . 
This seemed to draw his attention to him anew . 
He set down his glass and said 'I'll not fill it . 
What ! I am born to be served . 
and the easy yielding of all to a good natured , careless , predominant propensity to sit down on the ground again formed a very remarkable combination of character . 
'This happy idea , brave sir , Rigaud resumed after drinking , 'was a happy idea for several reasons . 
, and it suggested to all the amiable persons interested that your entirely devoted is a man to fear . 
Perhaps yes , perhaps no . 
But that , you have interrupted . 
All the undiscernible difficulties and dangers he had ever feared were closing in , when he could not stir hand or foot . 
How then ? What remains ? To you , nothing to me , all . 
Produce me ! Is that what you want ? I will produce myself , only too quickly . 
Contrabandist ! Give me pen , ink , and paper . 
Cavalletto got up again as before , and laid them before him in his former manner . 
Rigaud , after some villainous thinking and smiling , wrote , and read aloud , as follows 'To MRS CLENNAM . 
'At the apartment of your son . 
, that you have had fears for my safety . 
'Reassure yourself , dear madam . 
I am well , I am strong and constant . 
I name one week from this day , for a last final visit on my part when you will unconditionally accept it or reject it , with its train of consequences . 
'I suppress my ardour to embrace you and achieve this interesting business , in order that you may have leisure to adjust its details to our perfect mutual satisfaction . 
, that my expenses of lodging and nourishment at an hotel shall be paid by you . 
'Receive , dear madam , the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration , 'RIGAUD BLANDOIS . 
'A thousand friendships to that dear Flintwinch . 
'I kiss the hands of Madame F. When he had finished this epistle , Rigaud folded it and tossed it with a flourish at Clennam's feet . 
'Hola you ! Apropos of producing , let somebody produce that at its address , and produce the answer here . 
His services being accepted , Cavalletto suffered the door to open barely wide enough to admit of his squeezing himself out , and immediately shut it on him . 
Again Cavalletto got up , and gave him what he wanted . 
There had been something dreadful in the noiseless skill of his cold , white hands , with the fingers lithely twisting about and twining one over another like serpents . 
Clennam could not prevent himself from shuddering inwardly , as if he had been looking on at a nest of those creatures . 
'Hola , Pig ! cried Rigaud , with a noisy stimulating cry , as if Cavalletto were an Italian horse or mule . 
'What ! The infernal old jail was a respectable one to this . 
There was dignity in the bars and stones of that place . 
It was a prison for men . 
When he had lighted a second cigarette at the still burning end of the first , he said to Clennam 'One must pass the time in the madman's absence . 
One can't drink strong wine all day long , or I would have another bottle . 
Though not exactly to my taste , still , by the Thunder and the Lightning ! handsome . 
I felicitate you on your admiration . 
'I neither know nor ask , said Clennam , 'of whom you speak . 
'Della bella Gowana , sir , as they say in Italy . 
Of the Gowan , the fair Gowan . 
'Of whose husband you were the follower , I think ? 'Sir ? Follower ? You are insolent . 
'Do you sell all your friends ? Rigaud took his cigarette from his mouth , and eyed him with a momentary revelation of surprise . 
But he put it between his lips again , as he answered with coolness 'I sell anything that commands a price . 
'Effectively , sir , said Rigaud , 'Society sells itself and sells me and I sell Society . 
I perceive you have acquaintance with another lady . 
How do they call her ? Wade . 
He received no answer , but could easily discern that he had hit the mark . 
'Yes , he went on , 'that handsome lady and strong spirit addresses me in the street , and I am not insensible . 
That handsome lady and strong spirit does me the favour to remark , in full confidence , I have my curiosity , and I have my chagrins . 
I despise such a weak fantasy . 
Thereupon she is pleased to compliment . 
The difference between you and the rest is , she answers , that you say so . 
I accept her congratulations with gallantry and politeness . 
Politeness and little gallantries are inseparable from my character . 
O yes ! So goes the world . 
'Whoof ! The fair Gowana ! he said , lighting a third cigarette with a sound as if his lightest breath could blow her away . 
Whoof ! The Gowana was mistaken there . 
'I earnestly hope , cried Arthur aloud , 'that Pancks may not be long gone , for this man's presence pollutes the room . 
'Ah ! But he'll flourish here , and everywhere , said Rigaud , with an exulting look and snap of his fingers . 
Rigaud laughed , and fell to smoking with his eyes shut . 
Possibly another quarter of an hour elapsed before Mr Pancks's step was heard upon the stairs , but the interval seemed to Clennam insupportably long . 
His step was attended by another step and when Cavalletto opened the door , he admitted Mr Pancks and Mr Flintwinch . 
The latter was no sooner visible , than Rigaud rushed at him and embraced him boisterously . 
'How do you find yourself , sir ? said Mr Flintwinch , as soon as he could disengage himself , which he struggled to do with very little ceremony . 
'Thank you , no I don't want any more . 
This was in reference to another menace of attention from his recovered friend . 
You remember what I said to you about sleeping dogs and missing ones . 
It's come true , you see . 
He was as imperturbable as ever , to all appearance , and nodded his head in a moralising way as he looked round the room . 
'And this is the Marshalsea prison for debt ! said Mr Flintwinch . 
'Hah ! you have brought your pigs to a very indifferent market , Arthur . 
If Arthur had patience , Rigaud had not . 
'If you can make it convenient to let go a moment , sir , returned Mr Flintwinch , 'I'll first hand Mr Arthur a little note that I have for him . 
It was in his mother's maimed writing , on a slip of paper , and contained only these words 'I hope it is enough that you have ruined yourself . 
Rest contented without more ruin . 
Jeremiah Flintwinch is my messenger and representative . 
Your affectionate M. C. Clennam read this twice , in silence , and then tore it to pieces . 
Rigaud in the meanwhile stepped into a chair , and sat himself on the back with his feet upon the seat . 
Mr Flintwinch screwed this out of himself , unwillingly and rustily . 
'She sends her compliments , and says she doesn't on the whole wish to term you unreasonable , and that she agrees . 
But without prejudicing the appointment that stands for this day week . 
'Come , Pig , he added , 'I have had you for a follower against my will now , I'll have you against yours . 
I tell you , my little reptiles , I am born to be served . 
I demand the service of this contrabandist as my domestic until this day week . 
In answer to Cavalletto's look of inquiry , Clennam made him a sign to go but he added aloud , 'unless you are afraid of him . 
Cavalletto replied with a very emphatic finger negative . 
'No , master , I am not afraid of him , when I no more keep it secrettementally that he was once my comrade . 
Rigaud took no notice of either remark until he had lighted his last cigarette and was quite ready for walking . 
'Afraid of him , he said then , looking round upon them all . 
'Whoof ! My children , my babies , my little dolls , you are all afraid of him . 
You give him his bottle of wine here you give him meat , drink , and lodging there you dare not touch him with a finger or an epithet . 
Mr Flintwinch , after scraping his chin , and looking about with caustic disparagement of the Pig Market , nodded to Arthur , and followed . 
The prisoner , with the feeling that he was more despised , more scorned and repudiated , more helpless , altogether more miserable and fallen than before , was left alone again . 
CHAPTER A Plea in the Marshalsea Haggard anxiety and remorse are bad companions to be barred up with . 
Brooding all day , and resting very little indeed at night , t will not arm a man against misery . 
Next morning , Clennam felt that his health was sinking , as his spirits had already sunk and that the weight under which he bent was bearing him down . 
Now when the night came , he could not even persuade himself to undress . 
His dread and hatred of the place became so intense that he felt it a labour to draw his breath in it . 
The sensation of being stifled sometimes so overpowered him , that he would stand at the window holding his throat and gasping . 
Many other prisoners had had experience of this condition before him , and its violence and continuity had worn themselves out in their cases , as they did in his . 
Two nights and a day exhausted it . 
It came back by fits , but those grew fainter and returned at lengthening intervals . 
A desolate calm succeeded and the middle of the week found him settled down in the despondency of low , slow fever . 
With Cavalletto and Pancks away , he had no visitors to fear but Mr and Mrs Plornish . 
The subject of their only long conversation had never been revived between them . 
Through all these changes of unhappiness , however , it had never lost its hold on Clennam's mind . 
The sixth day of the appointed week was a moist , hot , misty day . 
It seemed as though the prison's poverty , and shabbiness , and dirt , were growing in the sultry atmosphere . 
So ill and faint that he was obliged to rest many times in the process of getting himself washed , he had at length crept to his chair by the open window . 
In it he sat dozing , while the old woman who arranged his room went through her morning's work . 
, he had been two or three times conscious , in the night , of going astray . 
He had heard fragments of tunes and songs in the warm wind , which he knew had no existence . 
Now that he began to doze in exhaustion , he heard them again and voices seemed to address him , and he answered , and started . 
Beside the tea cup on his table he saw , then , a blooming nosegay a wonderful handful of the choicest and most lovely flowers . 
Nothing had ever appeared so beautiful in his sight . 
But she was gone , and seemed to have been long gone for the tea she had left for him on the table was cold . 
When the first faintness consequent on having moved about had left him , he subsided into his former state . 
It seemed to draw the mantle off and drop it on the ground , and then it seemed to be his Little Dorrit in her old , worn dress . 
It seemed to tremble , and to clasp its hands , and to smile , and to burst into tears . 
He roused himself , and cried out . 
'O , my best friend ! Dear Mr Clennam , don't let me see you weep ! Unless you weep with pleasure to see me . 
Your own poor child come back ! So faithful , tender , and unspoiled by Fortune . 
I have always kept it by me , to remind me though I wanted no reminding . 
I am not alone , you see . 
I have brought an old friend with me . 
Looking round , he saw Maggy in her big cap which had been long abandoned , with a basket on her arm as in the bygone days , chuckling rapturously . 
'It was only yesterday evening that I came to London with my brother . 
I sent round to Mrs Plornish almost as soon as we arrived , that I might hear of you and let you know I had come . 
Then I heard that you were here . 
Did you happen to think of me in the night ? I almost believe you must have thought of me a little . 
I thought of you so anxiously , and it appeared so long to morning . 
'I have thought of you he hesitated what to call her . 
She perceived it in an instant . 
'You have not spoken to me by my right name yet . 
You know what my right name always is with you . 
'I have thought of you , Little Dorrit , every day , every hour , every minute , since I have been here . 
'Have you ? Have you ? He saw the bright delight of her face , and the flush that kindled in it , with a feeling of shame . 
He , a broken , bankrupt , sick , dishonoured prisoner . 
'I was here before the gates were opened , but I was afraid to come straight to you . 
I brought the flowers to the door , but you didn't hear me . 
She looked something more womanly than when she had gone away , and the ripening touch of the Italian sun was visible upon her face . 
But , otherwise , she was quite unchanged . 
The same deep , timid earnestness that he had always seen in her , and never without emotion , he saw still . 
If it had a new meaning that smote him to the heart , the change was in his perception , not in her . 
When that was done , the basket , which was filled with grapes and other fruit , was unpacked , and all its contents were quietly put away . 
Yet it inspired him with an inward fortitude , that rose with his love . 
And how dearly he loved her now , what words can tell ! As they sat side by side in the shadow of the wall , the shadow fell like light upon him . 
She would not let him speak much , and he lay back in his chair , looking at her . 
The shadow moved with the sun , but she never moved from his side , except to wait upon him . 
The sun went down and she was still there . 
She had done her work now , and her hand , faltering on the arm of his chair since its last tending of him , was hesitating there yet . 
He laid his hand upon it , and it clasped him with a trembling supplication . 
'Dear Mr Clennam , I must say something to you before I go . 
I have put it off from hour to hour , but I must say it . 
'I too , dear Little Dorrit . 
I have put off what I must say . 
She nervously moved her hand towards his lips as if to stop him then it dropped , trembling , into its former place . 
'I am not going abroad again . 
My brother is , but I am not . 
He only wishes me to be happy , he says . 
There was one bright star shining in the sky . 
She looked up at it While she spoke , as if it were the fervent purpose of her own heart shining above her . 
'You will understand , I dare say , without my telling you , that my brother has come home to find my dear father's will , and to take possession of his property . 
He says , if there is a will , he is sure i shall be left rich and if there is none , that he will make me so . 
He would have spoken but she put up her trembling hand again , and he stopped . 
'I have no use for money , I have no wish for it . 
It would be of no value at all to me but for your sake . 
I could not be rich , and you here . 
I must always be much worse than poor , with you distressed . 
I can't say what I wish to say . 
My tears will make their way . 
I cannot keep them back . 
It had grown darker when he raised her in his encircling arm , and softly answered her . 
'No , darling Little Dorrit . 
I must not hear of such a sacrifice . 
Liberty and hope would be so dear , bought at such a price , that I could never support their weight , never bear the reproach of possessing them . 
'I am disgraced enough , my Little Dorrit . 
I must not descend so low as that , and carry you so dear , so generous , so good down with me . 
GOD bless you , GOD reward you ! It is past . 
He took her in his arms , as if she had been his daughter . 
I have not the courage to ask to be forgotten by you in my humiliation but I ask to be remembered only as I am . 
The bell began to ring , warning visitors to depart . 
He took her mantle from the wall , and tenderly wrapped it round her . 
'One other word , my Little Dorrit . 
A hard one to me , but it is a necessary one . 
The time when you and this prison had anything in common has long gone by . 
But do not come soon , do not come often ! This is now a tainted place , and I well know the taint of it clings to me . 
You belong to much brighter and better scenes . 
You are not to look back here , my Little Dorrit you are to look away to very different and much happier paths . 
, Arthur led Little Dorrit down stairs . 
She was the last visitor to pass out at the Lodge , and the gate jarred heavily and hopelessly upon her . 
With the funeral clang that it sounded into Arthur's heart , his sense of weakness returned . 
It was a toilsome journey up stairs to his room , and he re entered its dark solitary precincts in unutterable misery . 
He glided in , in his stockings , and held the door closed , while he spoke in a whisper . 
'It's against all rules , but I don't mind . 
I was determined to come through , and come to you . 
'What is the matter ? 'Nothing's the matter , sir . 
I was waiting in the court yard for Miss Dorrit when she came out . 
I thought you'd like some one to see that she was safe . 
'Thank you , thank you ! You took her home , John ? 'I saw her to her hotel . 
The same that Mr Dorrit was at . 
Miss Dorrit walked all the way , and talked to me so kind , it quite knocked me over . 
Why do you think she walked instead of riding ? 'I don't know , John . 
And I'll stand by you , said John Chivery , 'for ever ! Clennam , much affected , stretched out his hand to this honest spirit . 
'Before I take it , said John , looking at it , without coming from the door , 'guess what message Miss Dorrit gave me . 
Tell him , repeated John , in a distinct , though quavering voice , that his Little Dorrit sent him her undying love . 
Have I been honourable , sir ? 'Very , very ! 'Will you tell Miss Dorrit I've been honourable , sir ? 'I will indeed . 
If the same way had been paved with burning ploughshares , it is not at all improbable that John would have traversed it with the same devotion , for the same purpose . 
CHAPTER Closing in The last day of the appointed week touched the bars of the Marshalsea gate . 
Black , all night , since the gate had clashed upon Little Dorrit , its iron stripes were turned by the early glowing sun into stripes of gold . 
Throughout the day the old house within the gateway remained untroubled by any visitors . 
But , when the sun was low , three men turned in at the gateway and made for the dilapidated house . 
Rigaud was the first , and walked by himself smoking . 
Mr Baptist was the second , and jogged close after him , looking at no other object . 
Mr Pancks was the third , and carried his hat under his arm for the liberation of his restive hair the weather being extremely hot . 
They all came together at the door steps . 
'You pair of madmen ! said Rigaud , facing about . 
'Don't go yet ! 'We don't mean to , said Mr Pancks . 
Giving him a dark glance in acknowledgment of his answer , Rigaud knocked loudly . 
He had charged himself with drink , for the playing out of his game , and was impatient to begin . 
He had hardly finished one long resounding knock , when he turned to the knocker again and began another . 
That was not yet finished when Jeremiah Flintwinch opened the door , and they all clanked into the stone hall . 
Rigaud , thrusting Mr Flintwinch aside , proceeded straight up stairs . 
His two attendants followed him , Mr Flintwinch followed them , and they all came trooping into Mrs Clennam's quiet room . 
It was in its usual state except that one of the windows was wide open , and Affery sat on its old fashioned window seat , mending a stocking . 
Yet there was a nameless air of preparation in the room , as if it were strung up for an occasion . 
'Who are these ? she said , wonderingly , as the two attendants entered . 
'What do these people want here ? 'Who are these , dear madame , is it ? returned Rigaud . 
'Faith , they are friends of your son the prisoner . 
And what do they want here , is it ? Death , madame , I don't know . 
You will do well to ask them . 
'You know you told us at the door , not to go yet , said Pancks . 
'And you know you told me at the door , you didn't mean to go , retorted Rigaud . 
'In a word , madame , permit me to present two spies of the prisoner's madmen , but spies . 
If you wish them to remain here during our little conversation , say the word . 
It is nothing to me . 
'Why should I wish them to remain here ? said Mrs Clennam . 
They are not my spies , not my rascals . 
'Hark ! You Pancks , said Mrs Clennam , bending her brows upon him angrily , 'you Casby's clerk ! Attend to your employer's business and your own . 
And take that other man with you . 
'Thank you , ma'am , returned Mr Pancks , 'I am glad to say I see no objection to our both retiring . 
We have done all we undertook to do for Mr Clennam . 
, that this agreeable gentleman should be brought back here to the place from which he slipped away . 
Here he is brought back . 
And I will say , added Mr Pancks , 'to his ill looking face , that in my opinion the world would be no worse for his slipping out of it altogether . 
'Your opinion is not asked , answered Mrs Clennam . 
'I am sorry not to leave you in better company , ma'am , said Pancks 'and sorry , too , that Mr Clennam can't be present . 
It's my fault , that is . 
'You mean his own , she returned . 
'No , I mean mine , ma'am , said Pancks , 'for it was my misfortune to lead him into a ruinous investment . 
'Though I can prove by figures , added Mr Pancks , with an anxious countenance , 'that it ought to have been a good investment . 
I have gone over it since it failed , every day of my life , and it comes out regarded as a question of figures triumphant . 
Mr Clennam ought to have been at this moment in his carriage and pair , and I ought to have been worth from three to five thousand pound . 
Mr Pancks put his hair erect with a general aspect of confidence that could hardly have been surpassed , if he had had the amount in his pocket . 
These incontrovertible figures had been the occupation of every moment of his leisure since he had lost his money , and were destined to afford him consolation to the end of his days . 
'However , said Mr Pancks , 'enough of that . 
Altro , old boy , you have seen the figures , and you know how they come out . 
Mr Baptist , who had not the slightest arithmetical power of compensating himself in this way , nodded , with a fine display of bright teeth . 
Ah ! yes , to be sure . 
'It is true , Mr Baptist cheerfully admitted . 
'And behold him , padrone ! I have found him consequentementally . 
'I shouldn't have objected , returned Mr Flintwinch , 'to your having broken your neck consequentementally . 
The house door was heard to close upon them , their steps were heard passing over the dull pavement of the echoing court yard , and still nobody had added a word . 
Mrs Clennam and Jeremiah had exchanged a look and had then looked , and looked still , at Affery , who sat mending the stocking with great assiduity . 
'No , I won't , Jeremiah no , I won't no , I won't ! I won't go ! I'll stay here . 
I'll hear all I don't know , and say all I know . 
I will , at last , if I die for it . 
'Not a bit nearer , Jeremiah ! cried Affery , never ceasing to beat the air . 
'Don't come a bit nearer to me , or I'll rouse the neighbourhood ! I'll throw myself out of window . 
'It is closing in , Flintwinch . 
Affery , do you turn against me after these many years ? 'I do , if it's turning against you to hear what I don't know , and say what I know . 
I have broke out now , and I can't go back . 
I am determined to do it . 
I will do it , I will , I will , I will ! If that's turning against you , yes , I turn against both of you two clever ones . 
I told Arthur when he first come home to stand up against you . 
I told him it was no reason , because I was afeard of my life of you , that he should be . 
I won't , I won't , I won't ! I'll up for Arthur when he has nothing left , and is ill , and in prison , and can't up for himself . 
After gazing at her in silence , Mrs Clennam turned to Rigaud . 
'You see and hear this foolish creature . 
Do you object to such a piece of distraction remaining where she is ? 'I , madame , he replied , 'do I ? That's a question for you . 
'I do not , she said , gloomily . 
'There is little left to choose now . 
Flintwinch , it is closing in . 
Rigaud , for his part , arose from his chair , and seated himself on the table with his legs dangling . 
In this easy attitude , he met Mrs Clennam's set face , with his moustache going up and his nose coming down . 
'Madame , I am a gentleman 'Of whom , she interrupted in her steady tones , 'I have heard disparagement , in connection with a French jail and an accusation of murder . 
He kissed his hand to her with his exaggerated gallantry . 
Of a lady too ! What absurdity ! How incredible ! I had the honour of making a great success then I hope to have the honour of making a great success now . 
, who when he says , I will definitely finish this or that affair at the present sitting , does definitely finish it . 
I announce to you that we are arrived at our last sitting on our little business . 
You do me the favour to follow , and to comprehend ? She kept her eyes fixed upon him with a frown . 
'Further , I am a gentleman to whom mere mercenary trade bargains are unknown , but to whom money is always acceptable as the means of pursuing his pleasures . 
You do me the favour to follow , and to comprehend ? 'Scarcely necessary to ask , one would say . 
'Further , I am a gentleman of the softest and sweetest disposition , but who , if trifled with , becomes enraged . 
Noble natures under such circumstances become enraged . 
I possess a noble nature . 
When the lion is awakened that is to say , when I enrage the satisfaction of my animosity is as acceptable to me as money . 
You always do me the favour to follow , and to comprehend ? 'Yes , she answered , somewhat louder than before . 
'Do not let me derange you pray be tranquil . 
I have said we are now arrived at our last sitting . 
Allow me to recall the two sittings we have held . 
'Death , madame , he burst out , 'it's my fancy ! Besides , it clears the way . 
The first sitting was limited . 
I gave my word of honour to our dear Flintwinch that I would return . 
Her face neither acquiesced nor demurred . 
'I say , gracefully departed , because it was graceful to retire without alarming a lady . 
To be morally graceful , not less than physically , is a part of the character of Rigaud Blandois . 
It was also politic , as leaving you with something overhanging you , to expect me again with a little anxiety on a day not named . 
But your slave is politic . 
By Heaven , madame , politic ! Let us return . 
On the day not named , I have again the honour to render myself at your house . 
I intimate that I have something to sell , which , if not bought , will compromise madame whom I highly esteem . 
I demand I think it was a thousand pounds . 
Will you correct me ? Thus forced to speak , she replied with constraint , 'You demanded as much as a thousand pounds . 
'I demand at present , Two . 
Such are the evils of delay . 
But to return once more . 
We are not accordant we differ on that occasion . 
I am playful playfulness is a part of my amiable character . 
Playfully , I become as one slain and hidden . 
For , it may alone be worth half the sum to madame , to be freed from the suspicions that my droll idea awakens . 
Accident and spies intermix themselves against my playfulness , and spoil the fruit , perhaps who knows ? only you and Flintwinch when it is just ripe . 
Thus , madame , I am here for the last time . 
Listen ! Definitely the last . 
As he struck his straggling boot heels against the flap of the table , meeting her frown with an insolent gaze , he began to change his tone for a fierce one . 
'Bah ! Stop an instant ! Let us advance by steps . 
Here is my Hotel note to be paid , according to contract . 
Five minutes hence we may be at daggers' points . 
I'll not leave it till then , or you'll cheat me . 
Pay it ! Count me the money ! 'Take it from his hand and pay it , Flintwinch , said Mrs Clennam . 
Rigaud chinked the money , weighed it in his hand , threw it up a little way and caught it , chinked it again . 
'The sound of it , to the bold Rigaud Blandois , is like the taste of fresh meat to the tiger . 
Say , then , madame . 
How much ? He turned upon her suddenly with a menacing gesture of the weighted hand that clenched the money , as if he were going to strike her with it . 
'I tell you again , as I told you before , that we are not rich here , as you suppose us to be , and that your demand is excessive . 
I have not the present means of complying with such a demand , if I had ever so great an inclination . 
'Hear this lady with her If ! Will you say that you have not the inclination ? 'I will say what presents itself to me , and not what presents itself to you . 
Quick ! Come to the inclination , and I know what to do . 
She was no quicker , and no slower , in her reply . 
'It would seem that you have obtained possession of a paper or of papers which I assuredly have the inclination to recover . 
Rigaud , with a loud laugh , drummed his heels against the table , and chinked his money . 
'I think so ! I believe you there ! 'The paper might be worth , to me , a sum of money . 
I cannot say how much , or how little . 
'What the Devil ! he asked savagely . 
This is the third time of your hinting and threatening . 
You must speak explicitly , or you may go where you will , and do what you will . 
It is better to be torn to pieces at a spring , than to be a mouse at the caprice of such a cat . 
After a long survey , he said , with the further setting off of his internal smile 'You are a bold woman ! 'I am a resolved woman . 
What ? She always was is it not so , my little Flintwinch ? 'Flintwinch , say nothing to him . 
It is for him to say , here and now , all he can or to go hence , and do all he can . 
You know this to be our determination . 
Leave him to his action on it . 
She did not shrink under his evil leer , or avoid it . 
He turned it upon her again , but she remained steady at the point to which she had fixed herself . 
Her face was ever frowning , attentive , and settled . 
'I am something of a doctor . 
Let me touch your pulse . 
She suffered him to take her wrist in his hand . 
Holding it , he proceeded to say 'A history of a strange marriage , and a strange mother , and a revenge , and a suppression . 
Aye , aye , aye ? this pulse is beating curiously ! It appears to me that it doubles while I touch it . 
Are these the usual changes of your malady , madame ? There was a struggle in her maimed arm as she twisted it away , but there was none in her face . 
On his face there was his own smile . 
'I have lived an adventurous life . 
I am an adventurous character . 
You will be charmed with it . 
But , bah ! I forget . 
One should name a history . 
Shall I name it the history of a house ? But , bah , again . 
There are so many houses . 
'In fine , then , I name it the history of this house . 
There live here , let us suppose , an uncle and nephew . 
The uncle , a rigid old gentleman of strong force of character the nephew , habitually timid , repressed , and under constraint . 
He's a talking of them . 
There she sits ! I heerd it in my dreams , and you said it to her own self . 
As Mr Flintwinch shook his fist at her , and as Mrs Clennam gazed upon her , Rigaud kissed his hand to her . 
'Perfectly right , dear Madame Flintwinch . 
You have a genius for dreaming . 
'I don't want none of your praises , returned Affery . 
'I don't want to have nothing at all to say to you . 
'Our beloved Madame Flintwinch , said Rigaud , 'developing all of a sudden a fine susceptibility and spirituality , is right to a marvel . 
Monsieur , the uncle , commands the nephew to marry . 
Ah ! what fortitude ! Ah , what superiority of intellectual strength ! Truly , a proud and noble character that I describe in the supposed words of Monsieur , the uncle . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Death of my soul , I love the sweet lady ! Mrs Clennam's face had changed . 
There was a remarkable darkness of colour on it , and the brow was more contracted . 
'Madame , madame , said Rigaud , tapping her on the arm , as if his cruel hand were sounding a musical instrument , 'I perceive I interest you . 
I perceive I awaken your sympathy . 
Do as you will ! Monsieur , the uncle , does as he will . 
It is what he always does . 
The auspicious nuptials take place the newly married come home to this charming mansion the lady is received , let us suppose , by Flintwinch . 
Hey , old intriguer ? Jeremiah , with his eyes upon his mistress , made no reply . 
Rigaud looked from one to the other , struck his ugly nose , and made a clucking with his tongue . 
'Soon the lady makes a singular and exciting discovery . 
What superior intelligence ! 'Keep off , Jeremiah ! cried the palpitating Affery , taking her apron from her mouth again . 
It was in the same dream where you said to her that she was not not something , but I don't know what , for she burst out tremendous and stopped you . 
You know the dream as well as I do . 
When you come down stairs into the kitchen with the candle in your hand , and hitched my apron off my head . 
When you told me I had been dreaming . 
When you wouldn't believe the noises . 
Rigaud had not lost a word of this . 
'Haha ! he cried , lifting his eyebrows , folding his arms , and leaning back in his chair . 
Her lips quivered and opened , in spite of her utmost efforts to keep them still . 
'Come then , madame ! Speak , then ! Our old intriguer said that you were not and you stopped him . 
He was going to say that you were not what ? I know already , but I want a little confidence from you . 
How , then ? You are not what ? She tried again to repress herself , but broke out vehemently , 'Not Arthur's mother ! 'Good , said Rigaud . 
Since it must be seen , I will have it seen by the light I stood in . 
What does it signify when he knows all about it ? 'He does not know all about it . 
'He knows all he cares about it , Mr Flintwinch testily urged . 
'He does not know me . 
'What do you suppose he cares for you , you conceited woman ? said Mr Flintwinch . 
'I tell you , Flintwinch , I will speak . 
I tell you when it has come to this , I will tell it with my own lips , and will express myself throughout it . 
What ! Have I suffered nothing in this room , no deprivation , no imprisonment , that I should condescend at last to contemplate myself in such a glass as that . 
Rigaud pushed his chair a little back pushed his legs out straight before him and sat with his arms folded over against her . 
'You do not know what it is , she went on addressing him , 'to be brought up strictly and straitly . 
I was so brought up . 
Mine was no light youth of sinful gaiety and pleasure . 
Mine were days of wholesome repression , punishment , and fear . 
The corruption of our hearts , the evil of our ways , the curse that is upon us , the terrors that surround us these were the themes of my childhood . 
They formed my character , and filled me with an abhorrence of evil doers . 
'No ! Do not forget . 
The initials of those words are within here now , and were within here then . 
But for that appointment there would have been no discovery . 
It spoke to me like a voice from an angry cloud . 
Do not forget the deadly sin , do not forget the appointed discovery , do not forget the appointed suffering . 
Was it my own wrong I remembered ? Mine ! I was but a servant and a minister . 
More than forty years of strife and struggle with the whisper that , by whatever name she called her vindictive pride and rage , nothing through all eternity could change their nature . 
Laugh but I will be known as I know myself , and as Flintwinch knows me , though it is only to you and this half witted woman . 
'Add , to yourself , madame , said Rigaud . 
'I have my little suspicions that madame is rather solicitous to be justified to herself . 
I have no need to be , she said , with great energy and anger . 
'Hah ! 'I ask , what was the penitence , in works , that was demanded of her ? You have a child I have none . 
He shall believe himself to be my son , and he shall be believed by every one to be my son . 
That done , and your present means , derived from my husband , renounced , I charge myself with your support . 
She had to sacrifice her sinful and shameful affections no more . 
to purchase her redemption from endless misery , if she could . 
It is appointed against such offences that the offenders shall not be able to forget . 
He died , and sent this watch back to me , with its Do not forget . 
I do NOT forget , though I do not read it as he did . 
I read in it , that I was appointed to do these things . 
'Come , madame ! Time runs out . 
Come , lady of piety , it must be ! You can tell nothing I don't know . 
Come to the money stolen , or I will ! Death of my soul , I have had enough of your other jargon . 
You or I to finish ? 'I ! she answered , with increased determination , if it were possible . 
'I , because I will not endure to be shown myself , and have myself shown to any one , with your horrible distortion upon me . 
You , with your practices of infamous foreign prisons and galleys would make it the money that impelled me . 
It was not the money . 
'Bah , bah , bah ! I repudiate , for the moment , my politeness , and say , Lies , lies , lies . 
You know you suppressed the deed and kept the money . 
Rigaud snapped his fingers tauntingly in her face . 
'One thousand guineas to the little beauty you slowly hunted to death . 
brother's youngest daughter , on her coming of age , as the remembrance his disinterestedness may like best , of his protection of a friendless young orphan girl . 
What ! You will never come to the money ? 'That patron , she was vehemently proceeding , when he checked her . 
'Names ! Call him Mr Frederick Dorrit . 
'That Frederick Dorrit was the beginning of it all . 
Then he is to have her taught . 
Then Arthur's father , who has all along been secretly pining in the ways of virtuous ruggedness for those accursed snares which are called the Arts , becomes acquainted with her . 
'Who said with his consent ? She started to find Jeremiah so near her , and drew back her head , looking at him with some rising distrust . 
'You were often enough between us when he would have had me produce it and I would not , to have contradicted me if I had said , with his consent . 
I say , when I suppressed that paper , I made no effort to destroy it , but kept it by me , here in this house , many years . 
The rest of the Gilbert property being left to Arthur's father , I could at any time , without unsettling more than the two sums , have made a pretence of finding it . 
, I have seen no new reason , in all the time I have been tried here , to bring it to light . 
It was a rewarding of sin the wrong result of a delusion . 
I did what I was appointed to do , and I have undergone , within these four walls , what I was appointed to undergo . 
I had found the niece before then and what I did for her , was better for her far than the money of which she would have had no good . 
'Shall I recall something to you , worthy madame ? said Rigaud . 
'The little paper was in this house on the night when our friend the prisoner jail comrade of my soul came home from foreign countries . 
Shall we coax our old intriguer to tell us when he saw him last ? 'I'll tell you ! cried Affery , unstopping her mouth . 
'I dreamed it , first of all my dreams . 
After a moment's wrestle with him , Flintwinch gave up , and put his hands in his pockets . 
All that she dreams comes true . 
Ha , ha , ha ! You're so like him , Little Flintwinch . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! But what's this ? cried Rigaud . 
'It appears as if you don't know , one the other . 
Permit me , Madame Clennam who suppresses , to present Monsieur Flintwinch who intrigues . 
I've been telling you for how many years that you're one of the most opinionated and obstinate of women . 
You call yourself humble and sinful , but you are the most Bumptious of your sex . 
Why didn't you destroy the paper when you first laid hands upon it ? I advised you to but no , it's not your way to take advice . 
You must keep it forsooth . 
Perhaps you may carry it out at some other time , forsooth . 
As if I didn't know better than that ! I think I see your pride carrying it out , with a chance of being suspected of having kept it by you . 
But that's the way you cheat yourself . 
Who are you , that you should be appointed to do it ? That may be your religion , but it's my gammon . 
So I don't care for your present eyes . 
Now , I am coming to the paper , and mark what I say . 
You put it away somewhere , and you kept your own counsel where . 
You're an active woman at that time , and if you want to get that paper , you can get it . 
There comes a time when you are struck into what you are now , and then if you want to get that paper , you can't get it . 
So it lies , long years , in its hiding place . 
He has not been in this room ten minutes , when he speaks of his father's watch . 
Make restitution ! Arthur's ways have frightened you a bit , and the paper shall be burnt after all . 
But it's not to be burnt on a Sunday night . 
No you are strict , you are we must wait over twelve o'clock , and get into Monday . 
, had had many jobs since the close of the long job he got from you , but had not done well . 
, he speculated unsuccessfully in lunatics , he got into difficulty about over roasting a patient to bring him to reason , and he got into debt . 
He was going out of the way , on what he had been able to scrape up , and a trifle from me . 
he made the acquaintance of this gentleman . 
He had come a long way , and , I thought then , was only sleepy but , I suppose now , was drunk . 
My brother had handed , from time to time , lots of these sheets to me . 
I did write about it , and never got an answer . 
I didn't know what to make of it , till this gentleman favoured us with his first visit . 
I think not and that I should have been quite satisfied with knowing I had got the better of you , and that I held the power over you . 
In the present state of circumstances , I have no more explanation to give you till this time to morrow night . 
She slowly withdrew them when he had ceased , and dropped her forehead on her hand . 
Her other hand pressed hard upon the table , and again the curious stir was observable in her , as if she were going to rise . 
'This box can never bring , elsewhere , the price it will bring here . 
This knowledge can never be of the same profit to you , sold to any other person , as sold to me . 
But I have not the present means of raising the sum you have demanded . 
Before coming here , I placed copies of the most important of these papers in another hand . 
Put off the time till the Marshalsea gate shall be shut for the night , and it will be too late to treat . 
The prisoner will have read them . 
She put her two hands to her head again , uttered a loud exclamation , and started to her feet . 
She staggered for a moment , as if she would have fallen then stood firm . 
Say what you mean , man ! Before her ghostly figure , so long unused to its erect attitude , and so stiffened in it , Rigaud fell back and dropped his voice . 
It was , to all the three , almost as if a dead woman had risen . 
'Miss Dorrit , answered Rigaud , 'the little niece of Monsieur Frederick , whom I have known across the water , is attached to the prisoner . 
Miss Dorrit , little niece of Monsieur Frederick , watches at this moment over the prisoner , who is ill . 
What ! I don't trust myself among you , now we have got so far , without giving my secret a second life . 
The packet not reclaimed before the ringing of the bell to night , you cannot buy . 
Affery , who had watched her in terror , darted to her in the middle of the room , caught hold of her dress , and went on her knees to her . 
'Don't , don't , don't ! What are you doing ? Where are you going ? You're a fearful woman , but I don't bear you no ill will . 
I can do poor Arthur no good now , that I see and you needn't be afraid of me . 
Don't go out , you'll fall dead in the street . 
Only promise me , that , if it's the poor thing that's kept here secretly , you'll let me take charge of her and be her nurse . 
Only promise me that , and never be afraid of me . 
Mrs Clennam stood still for an instant , at the height of her rapid haste , saying in stern amazement 'Kept here ? She has been dead a score of years or more . 
They can both tell you that she died when Arthur went abroad . 
'So much the worse , said Affery , with a shiver , 'for she haunts the house , then . 
They saw her , from the window , run wildly through the court yard and out at the gateway . 
For a few moments they stood motionless . 
Affery was the first to move , and she , wringing her hands , pursued her mistress . 
Rigaud , left alone , composed himself upon the window seat of the open window , in the old Marseilles jail attitude . 
He laid his cigarettes and fire box ready to his hand , and fell to smoking . 
'Whoof ! Almost as dull as the infernal old jail . 
Warmer , but almost as dismal . 
You have lived a gentleman you will die a gentleman . 
You triumph , my little boy but it is your character to triumph . 
Whoof ! In the hour of his triumph , his moustache went up and his nose came down , as he ogled a great beam over his head with particular satisfaction . 
CHAPTER Closed The sun had set , and the streets were dim in the dusty twilight , when the figure so long unused to them hurried on its way . 
More remarkable by being so removed from the crowd it was among than if it had been lifted on a pedestal to be seen , the figure attracted all eyes . 
'Why are you encircling me ? she asked , trembling . 
None of those who were nearest answered but from the outer ring there arose a shrill cry of ''Cause you're mad ! 'I am sure as sane as any one here . 
I want to find the Marshalsea prison . 
After a momentary whirl in the outer court yard , the prison door opened , and shut upon them . 
In the Lodge , which seemed by contrast with the outer noise a place of refuge and peace , a yellow lamp was already striving with the prison shadows . 
'Why , John ! said the turnkey who admitted them . 
'What is it ? 'Nothing , father only this lady not knowing her way , and being badgered by the boys . 
Who did you want , ma'am ? 'Miss Dorrit . 
Is she here ? The young man became more interested . 
'Yes , she is here . 
What might your name be ? 'Mrs Clennam . 
'Mr Clennam's mother ? asked the young man . 
She pressed her lips together , and hesitated . 
She had better be told it is his mother . 
He showed her into a darkening room , and left her . 
'Is it possible , Mrs Clennam , that you are so happily recovered as Little Dorrit stopped , for there was neither happiness nor health in the face that turned to her . 
'This is not recovery it is not strength I don't know what it is . 
With an agitated wave of her hand , she put all that aside . 
'You have a packet left with you which you were to give to Arthur , if it was not reclaimed before this place closed to night . 
Little Dorrit took it from her bosom , and gave it into her hand , which remained stretched out after receiving it . 
Little Dorrit took the packet from the still outstretched hand , and broke the seal . 
Mrs Clennam then gave her the inner packet that was addressed to herself , and held the other . 
In the window , where a little of the bright summer evening sky could shine upon her , Little Dorrit stood , and read . 
After a broken exclamation or so of wonder and of terror , she read in silence . 
When she had finished , she looked round , and her old mistress bowed herself before her . 
'You know , now , what I have done . 
'I will restore to you what I have withheld from you . 
'I have more yet to ask . 
'Not in that posture , said Little Dorrit . 
'It is unnatural to see your grey hair lower than mine . 
Pray rise let me help you . 
With that she raised her up , and stood rather shrinking from her , but looking at her earnestly . 
, the great supplication that I address to your merciful and gentle heart , is , that you will not disclose this to Arthur until I am dead . 
If you think , when you have had time for consideration , that it can do him any good to know it while I am yet alive , then tell him . 
If I should be quite sure that to be acquainted with it will do Mr Clennam no good 'I know you are attached to him , and will make him the first consideration . 
It is right that he should be the first consideration . 
But , having regarded him , and still finding that you may spare me for the little time I shall remain on earth , will you do it ? 'I will . 
For she did wrong me ! She not only sinned grievously against the Lord , but she wronged me . 
What Arthur's father was to me , she made him . 
From our marriage day I was his dread , and that she made me . 
I was the scourge of both , and that is referable to her . 
, and you will have thought already that he is as merciful and kind as you , and why do I not trust myself to him as soon as to you . 
'I do not doubt it . 
Yet Arthur is , of the whole world , the one person from whom I would conceal this , while I am in it . 
I kept over him as a child , in the days of his first remembrance , my restraining and correcting hand . 
I was stern with him , knowing that the transgressions of the parents are visited on their offspring , and that there was an angry mark upon him at his birth . 
I have seen him , with his mother's face , looking up at me in awe from his little books , and trying to soften me with his mother's ways that hardened me . 
The shrinking of her auditress stopped her for a moment in her flow of words , delivered in a retrospective gloomy voice . 
Not for the satisfaction of my injury . 
, but still to be just and upright , and to be submissive to me . 
He does to this hour . 
These have been his relations towards me . 
Yours have been of a much slighter kind , spread over a much shorter time . 
Your misconstruction and misunderstanding of the cause in which , and the motives with which , I have worked out this work , is lighter to endure than his would be . 
Let him do it , if it must be done , when I am not here to see it . 
Her pride was very strong in her , the pain of it and of her old passions was very sharp with her , when she thus expressed herself . 
Not less so , when she added 'Even now , I see YOU shrink from me , as if I had been cruel . 
Little Dorrit could not gainsay it . 
She tried not to show it , but she recoiled with dread from the state of mind that had burnt so fiercely and lasted so long . 
It presented itself to her , with no sophistry upon it , in its own plain nature . 
'I have done , said Mrs Clennam , 'what it was given to me to do . 
I have set myself against evil not against good . 
I have been an instrument of severity against sin . 
Have not mere sinners like myself been commissioned to lay it low in all time ? 'In all time ? repeated Little Dorrit . 
My life has been passed in this poor prison , and my teaching has been very defective but let me implore you to remember later and better days . 
We cannot but be right if we put all the rest away , and do everything in remembrance of Him . 
There is no vengeance and no infliction of suffering in His life , I am sure . 
There can be no confusion in following Him , and seeking for no other footsteps , I am certain . 
It bent its head low again , and said not a word . 
It remained thus , until the first warning bell began to ring . 
'Hark ! cried Mrs Clennam starting , 'I said I had another petition . 
It is one that does not admit of delay . 
The man who brought you this packet and possesses these proofs , is now waiting at my house to be bought off . 
I can keep this from Arthur , only by buying him off . 
He asks a large sum more than I can get together to pay him without having time . 
He refuses to make any abatement , because his threat is , that if he fails with me , he will come to you . 
She glided away into the prison for a few moments , returned , and said she was ready to go . 
They went out by another staircase , avoiding the lodge and coming into the front court yard , now all quiet and deserted , gained the street . 
It was one of those summer evenings when there is no greater darkness than a long twilight . 
The vista of street and bridge was plain to see , and the sky was serene and beautiful . 
As they crossed the bridge , the clear steeples of the many churches looked as if they had advanced out of the murk that usually enshrouded them , and come much nearer . 
The smoke that rose into the sky had lost its dingy hue and taken a brightness upon it . 
The beauties of the sunset had not faded from the long light films of cloud that lay at peace in the horizon . 
Less remarkable , now that she was not alone and it was darker , Mrs Clennam hurried on at Little Dorrit's side , unmolested . 
They left the great thoroughfare at the turning by which she had entered it , and wound their way down among the silent , empty , cross streets . 
Their feet were at the gateway , when there was a sudden noise like thunder . 
'What was that ! Let us make haste in , cried Mrs Clennam . 
They were in the gateway . 
Little Dorrit , with a piercing cry , held her back . 
Deafened by the noise , stifled , choked , and blinded by the dust , they hid their faces and stood rooted to the spot . 
The dust storm , driving between them and the placid sky , parted for a moment and showed them the stars . 
So blackened by the flying particles of rubbish as to be unrecognisable , they ran back from the gateway into the street , crying and shrieking . 
There , Mrs Clennam dropped upon the stones and she never from that hour moved so much as a finger again , or had the power to speak one word . 
Affery had been looking for them at the prison , and had caught sight of them at a distance on the bridge . 
She came up to receive her old mistress in her arms , to help to carry her into a neighbouring house , and to be faithful to her . 
The mystery of the noises was out now Affery , like greater people , had always been right in her facts , and always wrong in the theories she deduced from them . 
There had been a hundred people in the house at the time of its fall , there had been fifty , there had been fifteen , there had been two . 
Rumour finally settled the number at two the foreigner and Mr Flintwinch . 
Still , they had not come upon Flintwinch yet so the sturdy digging and shovelling and carrying away went on without intermission by night and by day . 
This was taken in ill part by a great many people , who persisted in believing that Flintwinch was lying somewhere among the London geological formation . 
The more restless Mr Pancks grew in his mind , the more impatient he became of the Patriarch . 
The Dock of the Steam Tug , Pancks , had a leaden roof , which , frying in the very hot sunshine , may have heated the vessel . 
'Mr Pancks , was the Patriarchal remark , 'you have been remiss , you have been remiss , sir . 
'What do you mean by that ? was the short rejoinder . 
The Patriarchal state , always a state of calmness and composure , was so particularly serene that evening as to be provoking . 
Everybody else within the bills of mortality was hot but the Patriarch was perfectly cool . 
Everybody was thirsty , and the Patriarch was drinking . 
There was a fragrance of limes or lemons about him and he made a drink of golden sherry , which shone in a large tumbler as if he were drinking the evening sunshine . 
this was bad , but not the worst . 
Wherefore , Mr Pancks said , 'What do you mean by that ? and put his hair up with both hands , in a highly portentous manner . 
'I mean , Mr Pancks , that you must be sharper with the people , sharper with the people , much sharper with the people , sir . 
Your receipts are not up to the mark . 
You must squeeze them , sir , or our connection will not continue to be as satisfactory as I could wish it to be to all parties . 
'Don't I squeeze 'em ? retorted Mr Pancks . 
'What else am I made for ? 'You are made for nothing else , Mr Pancks . 
You are made to do your duty , but you don't do your duty . 
You are paid to squeeze , and you must squeeze to pay . 
'Anything more ? 'Yes , sir , yes , sir . 
You will please , Mr Pancks , to squeeze the Yard again , the first thing on Monday morning . 
'Ain't that too soon ? I squeezed it dry to day . 
Not near the mark , not near the mark . 
'Oh ! said Pancks , watching him as he benevolently gulped down a good draught of his mixture . 
'Anything more ? 'Yes , sir , yes , sir , something more . 
I am not at all pleased , Mr Pancks , with my daughter not at all pleased . 
'He's laid up , you know , said Pancks . 
'Pooh , pooh , Mr Pancks . 
She has nothing to do with that , nothing to do with that . 
Let him pay his debts and come out , come out pay his debts , and come out . 
Although Mr Pancks's hair was standing up like strong wire , he gave it another double handed impulse in the perpendicular direction , and smiled at his proprietor in a most hideous manner . 
'You will please to mention to my daughter , Mr Pancks , that I can't allow it , can't allow it , said the Patriarch blandly . 
'Anything more ? 'Yes , sir . 
It appears to me , Mr Pancks , that you yourself are too often and too much in that direction , that direction . 
I recommend you , Mr Pancks , to dismiss from your attention both your own losses and other people's losses , and to mind your business , mind your business . 
Mr Pancks , with a sniff of corresponding intensity , then added , 'Anything more ? 'Not at present , sir , not at present . 
I am going , said the Patriarch , finishing his mixture , and rising with an amiable air , 'to take a little stroll , a little stroll . 
Perhaps I shall find you here when I come back . 
He was also hotter than at first , and breathed harder . 
But he suffered Mr Casby to go out , without offering any further remark , and then took a peep at him over the little green window blinds . 
'I thought so , he observed . 
'I knew where you were bound to . 
He steered straight for Mrs Plornish's end of Bleeding Heart Yard , and arrived there , at the top of the steps , hotter than ever . 
Then Mr Pancks descended and bore down upon him , with his utmost pressure of steam on . 
The population of the Yard were astonished at the meeting , for the two powers had never been seen there together , within the memory of the oldest Bleeding Heart . 
'What do you pretend to be ? said Mr Pancks . 
This singular performance was repeated , to the ever increasing admiration of the spectators , at the end of every succeeding article of Mr Pancks's oration . 
'I have discharged myself from your service , said Pancks , 'that I may tell you what you are . 
You're one of a lot of impostors that are the worst lot of all the lots to be met with . 
Speaking as a sufferer by both , I don't know that I wouldn't as soon have the Merdle lot as your lot . 
You're a driver in disguise , a screwer by deputy , a wringer , and squeezer , and shaver by substitute . 
'Ask these good people who's the hard man here . 
They'll tell you Pancks , I believe . 
'Yes , I should think so ! It's almost time to hear Mr Pancks . 
Mr Pancks has come down into the Yard to night on purpose that you should hear him . 
'Here's the Stop , said Pancks , 'that sets the tune to be ground . 
And there is but one tune , and its name is Grind , Grind , Grind ! Here's the Proprietor , and here's his Grubber . 
'Yes , I should think so ! The lot that your Casby belongs to , is the shabbiest of all the lots . 
I wish to call your attention to myself for a moment . 
I an't an agreeable style of chap , I know that very well . 
The auditory were divided on this point its more uncompromising members crying , 'No , you are not , and its politer materials , 'Yes , you are . 
'I am , in general , said Mr Pancks , 'a dry , uncomfortable , dreary Plodder and Grubber . 
'Well , said Mr Pancks , 'and neither will you find in Grubbers like myself , under Proprietors like this , pleasant qualities . 
I've been a Grubber from a boy . 
Its motto is , Keep the Grubber always at it . 
Is any gentleman present , said Mr Pancks , breaking off and looking round , 'acquainted with the English Grammar ? Bleeding Heart Yard was shy of claiming that acquaintance . 
Keep thou always at it . 
Let him keep always at it . 
Keep we or do we keep always at it . 
Keep ye or do ye or you keep always at it . 
Let them keep always at it . 
Here is your benevolent Patriarch of a Casby , and there is his golden rule . 
He is uncommonly improving to look at , and I am not at all so . 
He is as sweet as honey , and I am as dull as ditch water . 
He provides the pitch , and I handle it , and it sticks to me . 
Before the frightful results of this desperate action , Mr Pancks himself recoiled in consternation . 
CHAPTER Going ! The changes of a fevered room are slow and fluctuating but the changes of the fevered world are rapid and irrevocable . 
It was Little Dorrit's lot to wait upon both kinds of change . 
Her part in the life outside the gate urged its pressing claims upon her too , and her patience untiringly responded to them . 
because he suffered her to lead him . 
so perfectly satisfied or who was so very unfortunate in having a large circle of ardent and distinguished admirers , who never themselves happened to want her in any capacity . 
On the first crash of the eminent Mr Merdle's decease , many important persons had been unable to determine whether they should cut Mrs Merdle , or comfort her . 
, must be actively championed by her order for her order's sake . 
, and was a perfect Nelson in respect of nailing them to the mast . 
To that one , the continued absence of Mr Meagles abroad , instead of his comforting presence in the Marshalsea , was referable . 
By this time Mr Henry Gowan had made up his mind that it would be agreeable to him not to know the Meagleses . 
Mr Meagles , at such a period , naturally seized an occupation with great ardour . 
He knew from his daughter the various towns which Rigaud had been haunting , and the various hotels at which he had been living for some time back . 
With no other attendant than Mother , Mr Meagles went upon his pilgrimage , and encountered a number of adventures . 
Sometimes interpreters were called in whom Mr Meagles addressed in such idiomatic terms of speech , as instantly to extinguish and shut up which made the matter worse . 
But , in his own tongue , and in his own head , Mr Meagles was a clear , shrewd , persevering man . 
When he had 'worked round , as he called it , to Paris in his pilgrimage , and had wholly failed in it so far , he was not disheartened . 
'Oho ! said Mr Meagles . 
He was then shown into the presence of Miss Wade . 
Any unpleasant bygones between us are bygones , I hope . 
You recollect my daughter ? Time changes so ! A mother ! In his innocence , Mr Meagles could not have struck a worse key note . 
He paused for any expression of interest , but paused in vain . 
'That is not the subject you wished to enter on ? she said , after a cold silence . 
'No , no , returned Mr Meagles . 
However , to come to the point . 
For he was sensible of having gained nothing by approaching it in a roundabout way . 
'I have heard from my friend Clennam , who , you will be sorry to hear , has been and still is very ill He paused again , and again she was silent . 
that you had some knowledge of one Blandois , lately killed in London by a violent accident . 
Now , don't mistake me ! I know it was a slight knowledge , said Mr Meagles , dexterously forestalling an angry interruption which he saw about to break . 
'I am fully aware of that . 
It was a slight knowledge , I know . 
'Whose question is ? 'Mine , said Mr Meagles . 
'And not only mine but Clennam's question , and other people's question . 
Now , I am sure , continued Mr Meagles , whose heart was overflowing with Pet , 'that you can't have any unkind feeling towards my daughter it's impossible . 
Well ! It's her question , too being one in which a particular friend of hers is nearly interested . 
Did he leave them here ? I declare if I knew how to avoid giving you offence , I would take any pains to do it . 
I put the question personally , but there's nothing personal in it . 
I might put it to any one I have put it already to many people . 
Did he leave them here ? Did he leave anything here ? 'No . 
'Then unfortunately , Miss Wade , you know nothing about them ? 'I know nothing about them . 
I have now answered your unaccountable question . 
He did not leave them here , and I know nothing about them . 
'There ! said Mr Meagles rising . 
'I am sorry for it that's over and I hope there is not much harm done . 
Tattycoram well , Miss Wade ? 'Harriet well ? O yes ! 'I have put my foot in it again , said Mr Meagles , thus corrected . 
'I can't keep my foot out of it here , it seems . 
Perhaps , if I had thought twice about it , I might never have given her the jingling name . 
But , when one means to be good natured and sportive with young people , one doesn't think twice . 
Her old friend leaves a kind word for her , Miss Wade , if you should think proper to deliver it . 
The faithful John was on duty when Father and Mother Meagles presented themselves at the wicket towards nightfall . 
Miss Dorrit was not there then , he said but she had been there in the morning , and invariably came in the evening . 
Mr Clennam was slowly mending and Maggy and Mrs Plornish and Mr Baptist took care of him by turns . 
Miss Dorrit was sure to come back that evening before the bell rang . 
There was the room the Marshal had lent her , up stairs , in which they could wait for her , if they pleased . 
The cramped area of the prison had such an effect on Mrs Meagles that she began to weep , and such an effect on Mr Meagles that he began to gasp for air . 
He was walking up and down the room , panting , and making himself worse by laboriously fanning himself with her handkerchief , when he turned towards the opening door . 
'Eh ? Good gracious ! said Mr Meagles , 'this is not Miss Dorrit ! Why , Mother , look ! Tattycoram ! No other . 
And in Tattycoram's arms was an iron box some two feet square . 
Such a box had Affery Flintwinch seen , in the first of her dreams , going out of the old house in the dead of the night under Double's arm . 
'What you wanted ! said Tattycoram . 
'Here it is ! I was put in the next room not to see you . 
Here it is ! 'Why , my girl , cried Mr Meagles , more breathless than before , 'how did you come over ? 'I came in the boat with you . 
I was sitting wrapped up at the other end . 
When you took a coach at the wharf , I took another coach and followed you here . 
She never would have given it up after what you had said to her about its being wanted she would sooner have sunk it in the sea , or burnt it . 
But here it is ! Dear Master , dear Mistress , take me back again , and give me back the dear old name ! Let this intercede for me . 
Here it is ! Father and Mother Meagles never deserved their names better than when they took the headstrong foundling girl into their protection again . 
I knew she had got a power over me through understanding what was bad in me so well . 
It was a madness in me , and she could raise it whenever she liked . 
I have had Miss Wade before me all this time , as if it was my own self grown ripe turning everything the wrong way , and twisting all good into evil . 
I have had her before me all this time , finding no pleasure in anything but keeping me as miserable , suspicious , and tormenting as herself . 
Not that she had much to do , to do that , cried Tattycoram , in a closing great burst of distress , 'for I was as bad as bad could be . 
That was all passed , all forgiven , all forgotten . 
'Now , my dear Miss Dorrit , said Mr Meagles 'I am a man of business or at least was and I am going to take my measures promptly , in that character . 
Had I better see Arthur to night ? 'I think not to night . 
I will go to his room and ascertain how he is . 
But I think it will be better not to see him to night . 
'I am much of your opinion , my dear , said Mr Meagles , 'and therefore I have not been any nearer to him than this dismal room . 
Then I shall probably not see him for some little time to come . 
But I'll explain what I mean when you come back . 
Mr Meagles , looking through the bars of the window , saw her pass out of the Lodge below him into the prison yard . 
He said gently , 'Tattycoram , come to me a moment , my good girl . 
She went up to the window . 
'You see that young lady who was here just now that little , quiet , fragile figure passing along there , Tatty ? Look . 
The people stand out of the way to let her go by . 
The men see the poor , shabby fellows pull off their hats to her quite politely , and now she glides in at that doorway . 
See her , Tattycoram ? 'Yes , sir . 
'I have heard tell , Tatty , that she was once regularly called the child of this place . 
She was born here , and lived here many years . 
Yet I have heard tell , Tattycoram , that her young life has been one of active resignation , goodness , and noble service . 
They remained at the window , Mother joining them and pitying the prisoners , until she was seen coming back . 
She was soon in the room , and recommended that Arthur , whom she had left calm and composed , should not be visited that night . 
'Good ! said Mr Meagles , cheerily . 
'I have not a doubt that's best . 
I shall trust my remembrances then , my sweet nurse , in your hands , and I well know they couldn't be in better . 
I am off again to morrow morning . 
Little Dorrit , surprised , asked him where ? 'My dear , said Mr Meagles , 'I can't live without breathing . 
This place has taken my breath away , and I shall never get it back again until Arthur is out of this place . 
'How is that a reason for going off again to morrow morning ? 'You shall understand , said Mr Meagles . 
'To night we three will put up at a City Hotel . 
We must have Dan here . 
I devote myself at daybreak to morrow morning , to bringing Doyce here . 
It's nothing to me to go and find him . 
I'm an old traveller , and all foreign languages and customs are alike to me I never understand anything about any of 'em . 
Therefore I can't be put to any inconvenience . 
Go at once I must , it stands to reason because I can't live without breathing freely and I can't breathe freely until Arthur is out of this Marshalsea . 
I am stifled at the present moment , and have scarcely breath enough to say this much , and to carry this precious box down stairs for you . 
They got into the street as the bell began to ring , Mr Meagles carrying the box . 
Little Dorrit had no conveyance there which rather surprised him . 
He called a coach for her and she got into it , and he placed the box beside her when she was seated . 
In her joy and gratitude she kissed his hand . 
'I don't like that , my dear , said Mr Meagles . 
'It goes against my feeling of what's right , that YOU should do homage to ME at the Marshalsea Gate . 
She bent forward , and kissed his cheek . 
Blossom what would , its bricks and bars bore uniformly the same dead crop . 
When the voice stopped , he put his hand over his eyes , murmuring that the light was strong upon them . 
Little Dorrit put the book by , and presently arose quietly to shade the window . 
Maggy sat at her needlework in her old place . 
The light softened , Little Dorrit brought her chair closer to his side . 
'This will soon be over now , dear Mr Clennam . 
is so considerate , and speaks so well of you , that it will soon be over now . 
Good angel ! 'You praise me far too much . 
He lifted her hand to his lips . 
'Very often ? 'Rather often , said Little Dorrit , timidly . 
'Every day ? 'I think , said Little Dorrit , after hesitating , 'that I have been here at least twice every day . 
He might have released the little light hand after fervently kissing it again but that , with a very gentle lingering where it was , it seemed to court being retained . 
He took it in both of his , and it lay softly on his breast . 
'Dear Little Dorrit , it is not my imprisonment only that will soon be over . 
This sacrifice of you must be ended . 
We must learn to part again , and to take our different ways so wide asunder . 
You have not forgotten what we said together , when you came back ? 'O no , I have not forgotten it . 
But something has been You feel quite strong to day , don't you ? 'Quite strong . 
The hand he held crept up a little nearer his face . 
'Do you feel quite strong enough to know what a great fortune I have got ? 'I shall be very glad to be told . 
No fortune can be too great or good for Little Dorrit . 
'I have been anxiously waiting to tell you . 
I have been longing and longing to tell you . 
'You will be sorry to hear what I have to tell you about Fanny . 
Poor Fanny has lost everything . 
She has nothing left but her husband's income . 
All that papa gave her when she married was lost as your money was lost . 
It was in the same hands , and it is all gone . 
Arthur was more shocked than surprised to hear it . 
'I had hoped it might not be so bad , he said 'but I had feared a heavy loss there , knowing the connection between her husband and the defaulter . 
I am very sorry for Fanny very , very , very sorry for poor Fanny . 
My poor brother too ! 'Had he property in the same hands ? 'Yes ! And it's all gone . 
'I have nothing in the world . 
I am as poor as when I lived here . 
When papa came over to England , he confided everything he had to the same hands , and it is all swept away . 
Mr F. 's Aunt was so stiffened that she had the appearance of being past bending by any means short of powerful mechanical pressure . 
Rightly interpreting this rather obscure speech , Little Dorrit returned that she was quite at Flora's disposition . 
Little Dorrit took her hand , and thanked her for all her old kindness . 
Flora really had tears in her eyes now , and they showed her to great advantage . 
Without having been able closely to follow Mrs Finching through this labyrinth , Little Dorrit understood its purpose , and cordially accepted the trust . 
'Bring him for'ard , and I'll chuck him out o' winder ! Flora tried in vain to soothe the excellent woman by explaining that they were going home to dinner . 
They parted , therefore , in the friendliest manner , and with the kindest feeling on both sides . 
As she was observed at this time to direct baleful glances towards the Marshalsea , it has been supposed that this admirably consistent female intended by 'him , Arthur Clennam . 
The autumn days went on , and Little Dorrit never came to the Marshalsea now and went away without seeing him . 
No , no , no . 
'Dear Arthur , said her delighted voice outside the door , 'I have some one here . 
May I bring some one in ? He had thought from the tread there were two with her . 
He answered 'Yes , and she came in with Mr Meagles . 
Sun browned and jolly Mr Meagles looked , and he opened his arms and folded Arthur in them , like a sun browned and jolly father . 
'Now I am all right , said Mr Meagles , after a minute or so . 
Arthur , my dear fellow , confess at once that you expected me before . 
'I did , said Arthur 'but Amy told me 'Little Dorrit . 
But my Little Dorrit told me that , without asking for any further explanation , I was not to expect you until I saw you . 
'And now you see me , my boy , said Mr Meagles , shaking him by the hand stoutly 'and now you shall have any explanation and every explanation . 
'Poor Doyce ! sighed Arthur . 
'Don't call him names that he don't deserve , said Mr Meagles . 
'He's not poor he's doing well enough . 
Doyce is a wonderful fellow over there . 
I assure you he is making out his case like a house a fire . 
He has fallen on his legs , has Dan . 
You won't have occasion to trouble the Circumlocution Office any more . 
Let me tell you , Dan has done without 'em ! 'What a load you take from my mind ! cried Arthur . 
'What happiness you give me ! 'Happiness ? retorted Mr Meagles . 
'Don't talk about happiness till you see Dan . 
I assure you Dan is directing works and executing labours over yonder , that it would make your hair stand on end to look at . 
He's no public offender , bless you , now ! He's medalled and ribboned , and starred and crossed , and I don't know what all'd , like a born nobleman . 
But we mustn't talk about that over here . 
'Why not ? 'Oh , egad ! said Mr Meagles , shaking his head very seriously , 'he must hide all those things under lock and key when he comes over here . 
They won't do over here . 
In that particular , Britannia is a Britannia in the Manger won't give her children such distinctions herself , and won't allow them to be seen when they are given by other countries . 
No , no , Dan ! said Mr Meagles , shaking his head again . 
twice what I have lost , cried Arthur , 'you would not have given me the pleasure that you give me in this news . 
'Why , of course , of course , assented Mr Meagles . 
'Of course I know that , my good fellow , and therefore I come out with it in the first burst . 
Now , to go back , about catching Doyce . 
Ran against him among a lot of those dirty brown dogs in women's nightcaps a great deal too big for 'em , calling themselves Arabs and all sorts of incoherent races . 
YOU know 'em ! Well ! He was coming straight to me , and I was going to him , and so we came back together . 
'Doyce in England ! exclaimed Arthur . 
'There ! said Mr Meagles , throwing open his arms . 
'I am the worst man in the world to manage a thing of this sort . 
First , not a word more from you about the past . 
There was an error in your calculations . 
I know what that is . 
It affects the whole machine , and failure is the consequence . 
You will profit by the failure , and will avoid it another time . 
I have done a similar thing myself , in construction , often . 
Every failure teaches a man something , if he will learn and you are too sensible a man not to learn from this failure . 
But you know we always make an allowance for friction , and so I have reserved space to close in . 
'I made a remark a little while ago , said Daniel Doyce then , 'which I am inclined to think was an incorrect one . 
I said there was nothing to detain you here , Clennam , half an hour longer . 
'It has been our cherished purpose . 
'Very well ! said Doyce . 
Little Dorrit and he went out together soon afterwards , and Mr Meagles lingered behind to say a word to his friend . 
'I think , Arthur , you will not want Mother and me in the morning and we will keep away . 
It might set Mother thinking about Pet she's a soft hearted woman . 
She's best at the Cottage , and I'll stay there and keep her company . 
With that they parted for the time . 
The poor room was a happy room that morning . 
Where in the world was there a room so full of quiet joy ! 'My dear love , said Arthur . 
'Why does Maggy light the fire ? We shall be gone directly . 
'I asked her to do it . 
I have taken such an odd fancy . 
I want you to burn something for me . 
'What ? 'Only this folded paper . 
If you will put it in the fire with your own hand , just as it is , my fancy will be gratified . 
'Is it bright enough now ? said Arthur . 
'Quite bright enough now , said Little Dorrit . 
'Does the charm want any words to be said ? asked Arthur , as he held the paper over the flame . 
I love you ! answered Little Dorrit . 
So he said it , and the paper burned away . 
They passed very quietly along the yard for no one was there , though many heads were stealthily peeping from the windows . 
Only one face , familiar of old , was in the Lodge . 
And there was Little Dorrit's old friend who had given her the Burial Register for a pillow full of admiration that she should come back to them to be married , after all . 
And they were married with the sun shining on them through the painted figure of Our Saviour on the window . 
And they went into the very room where Little Dorrit had slumbered after her party , to sign the Marriage Register . 
'For , you see , said Little Dorrit's old friend , 'this young lady is one of our curiosities , and has come now to the third volume of our Registers . 
They all gave place when the signing was done , and Little Dorrit and her husband walked out of the church alone . 
They paused for a moment on the steps of the portico , looking at the fresh perspective of the street in the autumn morning sun's bright rays , and then went down . 
Went down into a modest life of usefulness and happiness . 
