I have lived in many lands , and have known men . 
I never knew a finer man than Graham Phillips . 
His were the clearest , bluest , most honest eyes I ever saw eyes that scorned untruth eyes that penetrated all sham . 
In repose his handsome features were a trifle stern and the magic of his smile was the more wonderful such a sunny , youthful , engaging smile . 
His mere presence in a room was exhilarating . 
It seemed to freshen the very air with a keen sweetness almost pungent . 
He was tall , spare , leisurely , iron strong yet figure , features and bearing were delightfully boyish . 
Men liked him , women liked him when he liked them . 
His was a knightly mind a paladin character . 
But he could unbend , and the memory of such hours with him hours that can never be again hurts more keenly than the memory of calmer and more sober moments . 
We agreed in many matters , he and I in many we differed . 
To me it was a greater honor to differ in opinion with such a man than to find an entire synod of my own mind . 
He was to have been really great . 
He is by his last book , Susan Lenox . 
Not that , when he sometimes discussed the writing of it with me , I was in sympathy with it . 
We always were truthful to each other . 
So I. But he went on about his business . 
I do not know what the public may think of Susan Lenox . 
I scarcely know what I think . 
It is a terrible book terrible and true and beautiful . 
Under the depths there are unspeakable things that writhe . 
His plumb line touches them and they squirm . 
He bends his head from the clouds to do it . 
Is it worth doing ? I don't know . 
But this I do know that within the range of all fiction of all lands and of all times no character has so overwhelmed me as the character of Susan Lenox . 
She is as real as life and as unreal . 
Hers was the concentrated nobility of Heaven and Hell . 
And the divinity of the one and the tragedy of the other . 
For she had known both this girl the most pathetic , the most human , the most honest character ever drawn by an American writer . 
In the presence of his last work , so overwhelming , so stupendous , we lesser men are left at a loss . 
Its magnitude demands the perspective that time only can lend it . 
Its dignity and austerity and its pitiless truth impose upon us that honest and intelligent silence which even the quickest minds concede is necessary before an honest verdict . 
Truth was his goddess he wrought honestly and only for her . 
He is dead , but he is to have his day in court . 
And whatever the verdict , if it be a true one , were he living he would rest content . 
The authors who knew they were lying sank almost as low as the nasty nice purveyors of fake idealism and candied pruriency who fancied they were writing the truth . 
Now it almost seems that the day of lying conscious and unconscious is about run . 
And ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free . 
There are three ways of dealing with the sex relations of men and women two wrong and one right . 
For lack of more accurate names the two wrong ways may be called respectively the Anglo Saxon and the Continental . 
Both are in essence processes of spicing up and coloring up perfectly innocuous facts of nature to make them poisonously attractive to perverted palates . 
Both pander to different forms of the same diseased craving for the unnatural . 
The one tends to encourage the shallow and unthinking in ignorance of life and so causes them to suffer the merciless penalties of ignorance . 
The other tends to miseducate the shallow and unthinking , to give them a ruinously false notion of the delights of vice . 
The Anglo Saxon morality is like a nude figure salaciously draped the Continental strength is like a nude figure salaciously distorted . 
The Anglo Saxon article reeks the stench of disinfectants the Continental reeks the stench of degenerate perfume . 
The Continental shouts Hypocrisy ! at the Anglo Saxon the Anglo Saxon shouts Filthiness ! at the Continental . 
Both are right they are twin sisters of the same horrid mother . 
And an author of either allegiance has to have many a redeeming grace of style , of character drawing , of philosophy , to gain him tolerance in a clean mind . 
There is the third and right way of dealing with the sex relations of men and women . 
That is the way of simple candor and naturalness . 
Treat the sex question as you would any other question . 
Don't treat it reverently don't treat it rakishly . 
Don't insult your intelligence and lower your moral tone by thinking about either the decency or the indecency of matters that are familiar , undeniable , and unchangeable facts of life . 
Don't look on woman as mere female , but as human being . 
Remember that she has a mind and a heart as well as a body . 
In a sentence , don't join in the prurient clamor of purity hypocrites and strong libertines that exaggerates and distorts the most commonplace , if the most important feature of life . 
Let us try to be as sensible about sex as we are trying to be about all the other phenomena of the universe in this more enlightened day . 
Nothing so sweetens a sin or so delights a sinner as getting big eyed about it and him . 
Those of us who are naughty aren't nearly so naughty as we like to think nor are those of us who are nice nearly so nice . 
Our virtues and our failings are perhaps to an unsuspected degree the result of the circumstances in which we are placed . 
The way to improve individuals is to improve these circumstances and the way to start at improving the circumstances is by looking honestly and fearlessly at things as they are . 
We must know our world and ourselves before we can know what should be kept and what changed . 
And the beginning of this wisdom is in seeing sex relations rationally . 
Until that fundamental matter is brought under the sway of good common sense , improvement in other directions will be slow indeed . 
Let us stop lying to others to ourselves . 
D. G. P. July , . 
SUSAN LENOX CHAPTER I THE child's dead , said Nora , the nurse . 
It was the upstairs sitting room in one of the pretentious houses of Sutherland , oldest and most charming of the towns on the Indiana bank of the Ohio . 
The two big windows were open their limp and listless draperies showed that there was not the least motion in the stifling humid air of the July afternoon . 
At the center of the room stood an oblong table over it were neatly spread several thicknesses of white cotton cloth naked upon them lay the body of a newborn girl baby . 
At one side of the table nearer the window stood Nora . 
As additional penalties for that same self indulgence she had an enormous bust and hips , thin face and arms , hollow , sinew striped neck . 
For upwards of an hour young Stevens , coat off and shirt sleeves rolled to his shoulders , had been toiling with the lifeless form on the table . 
He had tried everything his training , his reading and his experience suggested all the more or less familiar devices similar to those indicated for cases of drowning . 
Nora had watched him , at first with interest and hope , then with interest alone , finally with swiftly deepening disapproval , as her compressed lips and angry eyes plainly revealed . 
It seemed to her his effort was degenerating into sacrilege , into defiance of an obvious decree of the Almighty . 
When she saw that her verdict had not been heard , she repeated it more emphatically . 
The child's dead , said she , as I told you from the set out . 
She made the sign of the cross on her forehead and bosom , while her fat , dry lips moved in a Hail , Mary . 
The young man did not rouse from his reverie . 
He continued to gaze with a baffled expression at the tiny form , so like a whimsical caricature of humanity . 
He showed that he had heard the woman's remark by saying , to himself rather than to her , Dead ? What's that ? Merely another name for ignorance . 
But the current of his thought did not swerve . 
As if the reproach were just the spur his courage and his intelligence had needed , his face suddenly glowed with the upshooting fire of an inspiration . 
He thrust the big white handkerchief into his hip pocket , laid one large strong hand upon the small , beautifully arched chest of the baby . 
Nora , roused by his expression even more than by his gesture , gave an exclamation of horror . 
Don't touch it again , she cried , between entreaty and command . 
You've done all you can and more . 
Such a fine baby , too , he said , hesitating the old woman mistakenly fancied it was her words that made him pause . 
I feel no good at all , he went on , as if reasoning with himself , no good at all , losing both the mother and the child . 
She didn't want to live , replied Nora . 
Her glances stole somewhat fearfully toward the door of the adjoining room the bedroom where the mother lay dead . 
There wasn't nothing but disgrace ahead for both of them . 
Such a fine baby , muttered the abstracted young doctor . 
Love children always is , said Nora . 
She was looking sadly and tenderly down at the tiny , symmetrical form symmetrical to her and the doctor's expert eyes . 
Such a deep chest , she sighed . 
Such pretty hands and feet . 
I'll try it , cried the young man in a resolute tone . 
It can't do any harm , and Without finishing his sentence he laid hold of the body by the ankles , swung it clear of the table . 
Stevens called out sternly Mind your business , Nora ! Push the table against the wall and get out of the way . 
I want all the room there is . 
Oh , Doctor for the blessed Jesus' sake Push back that table ! Nora shrank before his fierce eyes . 
She thought his exertions , his disappointment and the heat had combined to topple him over into insanity . 
She retreated toward the farther of the open windows . 
With a curse at her stupidity Stevens kicked over the table , used his foot vigorously in thrusting it to the wall . 
Now ! exclaimed he , taking his stand in the center of the room and gauging the distance of ceiling , floor and walls . 
Nora , her back against the window frame , her fingers sunk in her big loose bosom , stared petrified . 
Stevens , like an athlete swinging an indian club , whirled the body round and round his head , at the full length of his powerful arms . 
More and more rapidly he swung it , until his breath came and went in gasps and the sweat was trickling in streams down his face and neck . 
She craned eagerly toward Stevens . 
He was whirling the body more furiously than ever . 
Was that you ? asked Nora hoarsely . 
Or was it She paused , listened . 
The sound came again the sound of a drowning person fighting for breath . 
What is it , Doctor ? Life ! panted Stevens , triumph in his glistening , streaming face . 
Life ! He continued to whirl the little form , but not so rapidly or so vigorously . 
And now the sound was louder , or , rather , less faint , less uncertain was a cry was the cry of a living thing . 
She stretched out her arms . 
My prayers are answered ! she cried . 
Don't kill her , you brute ! Give her to me . 
You shan't treat a baby that way . 
The unheeding doctor kept on whirling until the cry was continuous , a low but lusty wail of angry protest . 
Then he stopped , caught the baby up in both arms , burst out laughing . 
You little minx ! he said or , rather , gasped a tenderness quite maternal in his eyes . 
But I got you ! Nora , the table . 
Nora righted the table , spread and smoothed the cloths , extended her scrawny eager arms for the baby . 
Stevens with a jerk of the head motioned her aside , laid the baby on the table . 
He felt for the pulse at its wrist , bent to listen at the heart . 
That strong , rising howl of helpless fury was proof enough . 
Her majesty the baby was mad through and through therefore alive through and through . 
Grand heart action ! said the young man . 
He stood aloof , hands on his hips , head at a proud angle . 
You never saw a healthier specimen . 
It'll be many a year , bar accidents , before she's that near death again . 
But it was Nora's turn not to hear . 
She was soothing and swaddling the outraged baby . 
There there ! she crooned . 
Nora'll take care of you . 
The bad man shan't come near my little precious no , the wicked man shan't touch her again . 
At the slight noise superstitious Nora paled , shriveled within her green and white checked gingham . 
She slowly turned her head as if on this day of miracles she expected yet another the resurrection of the resurrected baby's mother , poor Miss Lorella . 
But Lorella Lenox was forever tranquil in the sleep that engulfed her and the sorrows in which she had been entangled by an impetuous , trusting heart . 
Oh ! said Mrs. Warham . 
And she abruptly seated herself on the big chintz covered sofa beside the door . 
And it's a lovely child , pleaded Nora . 
Her woman's instinct guided her straight to the secret of the conflict raging behind Mrs. Warham's unhappy face . 
The finest girl in the world , cried Stevens , well meaning but tactless . 
Girl ! exclaimed Fanny , starting up from the sofa . 
Is it a girl ? Nora nodded . 
The young man looked downcast he was realizing the practical side of his victory for science the consequences to the girl child , to all the relatives . 
A girl ! moaned Fanny , sinking to the sofa again . 
God have mercy on us ! Louder and angrier rose the wail . 
Fanny , after a brief struggle with herself , hurried to the table , looked down at the tiny helplessness . 
She had been a mother four times . 
Only one had lived her fair little two year old Ruth and she would never have any more children . 
The tears glistened in her eyes . 
What ails you , Nora Mulvey ? she demanded . 
Why aren't you 'tending to this poor little creature ? Nora sprang into action , but she wrapped the baby herself . 
The doctor in deep embarrassment withdrew to the farther window . 
She fussed over the baby lingeringly , but finally resigned it to the nurse . 
Take it into the bathroom , she said , where everything's ready to feed it though I never dreamed As Nora was about to depart , she detained her . 
Let me look at it again . 
The nurse understood that Fanny Warham was searching for evidence of the mysterious but suspected paternity whose secret Lorella , with true Lenox obstinacy , had guarded to the end . 
The two women scanned the features . 
A man would at a glance have abandoned hope of discovering anything from a chart so vague and confused as that wrinkled , twisted , swollen face of the newborn . 
Said Nora She seems to me to favor the Lenoxes . 
But I think I kind o' think I see a trace of of There she halted , waiting for encouragement . 
Of Galt ? suggested Fanny , in an undertone . 
Of Galt , assented Nora , her tone equally discreet . 
That nose is Galt like and the set of the ears and a kind of something to the neck and shoulders . 
Maybe so , said Fanny doubtfully . 
She shook her head drearily , sighed . 
What's the use ? Lorella's gone . 
And this morning General Galt came down to see my husband with a letter he'd got from Jimmie . 
Again , perhaps the General wrote him to write that , and threatened him if he didn't . 
But what's the use ? We'll never know . 
When young Stevens was leaving , George Warham waylaid him at the front gate , separated from the spacious old creeper clad house by long lawns and an avenue of elms . 
I hear the child's going to live , said he anxiously . 
I've never seen anything more alive , replied Stevens . 
Warham stared gloomily at the ground . 
He was evidently ashamed of his feelings , yet convinced that they were human and natural . 
A moment's silence between the men , then Stevens put his hand on the gate latch . 
Did did my wife began Warham . 
Did she say what she calculated to do ? Not a word , George . 
You know how fond she is of babies . 
Yes , I know , replied Warham . 
Fanny is a true woman if ever there was one . 
With a certain defiance , And Lorella she was a sweet , womanly girl ! As sweet and good as she was pretty , replied Stevens heartily . 
If I ever catch the I'll fill him full of holes . 
He'd be lynched whoever he is , said Stevens . 
That's right ! cried Warham . 
This is the North , but it's near enough to Kentucky to know what to do with a wretch of that sort . 
That poor little baby ! He'll have a hard row to hoe . 
Stevens flushed a guilty red . 
It's it's a girl , he stammered . 
A girl ! he cried . 
Then his face reddened and in a furious tone he burst out Now don't that beat the devil for luck ! . 
A girl ! Good Lord a girl ! Nobody in this town'll blame her , consoled Stevens . 
You know better than that , Bob ! A girl ! Why , it's downright wicked . 
Warham made a wild vague gesture with both arms . 
Damn if I know ! I've got to look out for my own daughter . 
Damn it , I won't have it ! Stevens lifted the gate latch . 
Well Good by , George . 
I'll look in again this evening . 
And knowing the moral ideas of the town , all he could muster by way of encouragement was a half hearted Don't borrow trouble . 
But Warham did not hear . 
He was moving up the tanbark walk toward the house , muttering to himself . 
He had himself arranged for Fanny to hide Lorella in New York until she could safely return . 
But just as the sisters were about to set out , Lorella , low in body and in mind , fell ill . 
Then George and Fanny , too had striven with her to give them the name of her betrayer , that he might be compelled to do her justice . 
I told him , she said , and he I never want to see him again . 
Lorella denied that it was he . 
If you kill him , she said to Warham , you kill an innocent man . 
Warham was so exasperated by her obstinacy that he was at first for taking her at her offer and letting her go away . 
But Fanny would not hear of it , and he acquiesced . 
Now This child must be sent away off somewhere , and never be heard of again , he said to himself . 
If it'd been a boy , perhaps it might have got along . 
But a girl There's nothing can be done to make things right for a girl that's got no father and no name . 
The subject did not come up between him and his wife until about a week after Lorella's funeral . 
But he was thinking of nothing else . 
He was ashamed to appear in the streets he knew what was going on behind the sympathetic faces , heard the whisperings as if they had been trumpetings . 
And he was as much afraid of his own soft heart as of his wife's . 
But for the sake of his daughter he must be firm and just . 
I've made up my mind to keep her . 
It isn't fair to Ruth . 
Send it away where ? Anywhere . 
Get it adopted in Chicago Cincinnati Louisville . 
Lorella's baby ? When she and Ruth grow up what then ? People ain't so low as some think . 
The sins of the parents are visited on the children unto I don't care , interrupted Fanny . 
I'm going to keep her . 
When she came back she had the baby in her arms . 
Just look , she said softly . 
George frowned , tried not to look , but was soon drawn and held by the sweet , fresh , blooming face , so smooth , so winning , so innocent . 
And think how she was sent back to life from beyond the grave . 
It must have been for some purpose . 
Warham groaned , Oh , Lord , I don't know what to do ! But it ain't fair to our Ruth . 
I don't see it that way . 
Warham kissed one of the soft cheeks , swelling like a ripening apple . 
The baby opened wide a pair of wonderful dark eyes , threw up its chubby arms and laughed such a laugh ! . 
There was no more talk of sending her away . 
She was now nineteen nearer twenty and a very pretty young woman , indeed . 
She had grown up one of those small slender blondes , exquisite and doll like , who cannot help seeming fresh and sweet , whatever the truth about them , without or within . 
This morning she had on a new summer dress of a blue that matched her eyes and harmonized with her coloring . 
She was looking her best , and she had the satisfying , confidence giving sense that it was so . 
The weather plays a conspicuous part in the romancings of youth she felt that this was precisely the kind of day fate would be most likely to select for the meeting . 
Just before dressing she had been reading about the wonderful him in Robert Chambers' latest story and she had spent full fifteen minutes of blissful reverie over the accompanying Fisher illustration . 
I won't have her along ! she muttered . 
The countenance she presently revealed to those upper windows was sunny and sweet . 
Evidently Ruth knew , for it was toward this window that she directed her gaze and the remark Can't wait , dear . 
I'm in a great hurry . 
Mamma wants the silk right away and I've got to match it . 
But I'll be only a minute , pleaded the voice a much more interesting , more musical voice than Ruth's rather shrill and thin high soprano . 
No I'll meet you up at papa's store . 
That means , said she , half aloud , I'll steer clear of the store this morning . 
Ruth was intensely interested but kept remembering something that caused her to glance uneasily from time to time up the tanbark walk under the arching boughs toward the house . 
Lottie stopped abruptly , said Well , I really must get on . 
And there's your cousin coming down the walk . 
I know you've been waiting for her . 
Ruth tried to keep in countenance , but a blush of shame and a frown of irritation came in spite of her . 
I'm sorry I can't ask Susie , too , pursued Lottie , in a voice of hypocritical regret . 
But there are to be exactly eighteen couples and I couldn't . 
Of course not , said Ruth heartily . 
I wouldn't for the world do anything to hurt her feelings , continued Lottie with the self complacent righteousness of a deacon telling the congregation how good grace has made him . 
Her prominent commonplace brown eyes were gazing up the walk , an expression distressingly like envious anger in them . 
She had a thick , pudgy face , an oily skin , an outcropping of dull red pimples on the chin . 
Many women can indulge their passion for sweets at meals and sweets between meals without serious injury to complexion Lottie Wright , unluckily , couldn't . 
I feel sorry for Susie , she went on , in the ludicrous patronizing tone that needs no describing to anyone acquainted with any fashionable set anywhere from China to Peru . 
And I think the way you all treat her is simply beautiful . 
But , then , everybody feels sorry for her and tries to be kind . 
She knows about herself , I mean doesn't she , Ruthie ? I guess so , replied Ruth , almost hanging her head in her mortification . 
She's very good and sweet . 
Indeed , she is , said Lottie . 
And father says she's far and away the prettiest girl in town . 
What a nasty thing Lottie Wright is ! exclaimed Ruth to her cousin . 
She has a mean tongue , admitted Susan , tall and slim and straight , with glorious dark hair and a skin healthily pallid and as smooth as clear . 
But she's got a good heart . 
She gives a lot away to poor people . 
Because she likes to patronize and be kowtowed to , retorted Ruth . 
She's mean , I tell you . 
She has the right to ask whom she pleases . 
And she laughed if I were giving a party I'd not want to ask her though I might do it for fear she'd feel left out . 
Don't you feel left out ? Susan shook her head . 
I seem not to care much about going to parties lately . 
The boys don't like to dance with me , and I get tired of sitting the dances out . 
This touched Ruth's impulsively generous heart and woman's easy tears filled her eyes her cousin's remark was so pathetic , the more pathetic because its pathos was absolutely unconscious . 
Also , her personality was stronger , far more definite . 
Ruth tried to believe herself the cleverer and the more beautiful , at times with a certain success . 
But as she happened to be a shrewd young person an inheritance from the Warhams she was haunted by misgivings and worse . 
The truth is , Susan was beyond question the beauty of Sutherland . 
Her eyes , very dark at birth , had changed to a soft , dreamy violet gray . 
Hair and coloring , lashes and eyebrows remained dark thus her eyes and the intense red of her lips had that vicinage of contrast which is necessary to distinction . 
Her slim nose departed enough from the classic line to prevent the suggestion of monotony that is in all purely classic faces . 
Her nostrils had the sensitiveness that more than any other outward sign indicates the imaginative temperament . 
Her chin and throat to look at them was to know where her lover would choose to kiss her first . 
When she smiled her large even teeth were dazzling . 
And the smile itself was exceedingly sweet and winning , with the violet gray eyes casting over it that seriousness verging on sadness which is the natural outlook of a highly intelligent nature . 
For while stupid vain people are suspicious and easily offended , only the intelligent are truly sensitive keenly susceptible to all sensations . 
The dull ear is suspicious the acute ear is sensitive . 
Her walk was worthy of face and figure free and firm and graceful , the small head carried proudly without haughtiness . 
Susan , the interested in the world about her , Susan , the self unconscious , had none of these tricks . 
She was at all times her own self . 
Beauty is anything but rare , likewise intelligence . 
But this quality of naturalness is the greatest of all qualities . 
It made Susan Lenox unique . 
It was not strange nor inexcusable that the girls and their parents had begun to pity Susan as soon as this beauty developed and this personality had begun to exhale its delicious perfume . 
It was but natural that they should start the whole town to being kind to the poor thing . 
Women are conventional as a business but with men conventionality is a groveling superstition . 
And from fourteen on , it grew steadily . 
Everyone was friendly with her . 
A stranger would not have noticed any difference in the treatment of her and of her cousin Ruth . 
Yet not one of the young men would have thought of marrying her , would have regarded her as his equal or the equal of his sisters . 
She went to all the general entertainments . 
She was invited to all the houses when failure to invite her would have seemed pointed but only then . 
Thus , she was only vaguely , subconsciously conscious of there being something peculiar and mysterious in her lot . 
This isolation , rather than her dominant quality of self effacing consideration for others , was the chief cause of the extraordinary innocence of her mind . 
No servant , no girl , no audacious boy ever ventured to raise with her any question remotely touching on sex . 
At fifteen she remained as unaware of even the existence of the mysteries of sex as she had been at birth . 
It was generally assumed that she knew all about her origin , that someone had , some time or other , told her . 
Even her Aunt Fanny thought so , thought she was hiding the knowledge deep in her heart , explained in that way her content with the solitude of books and sewing . 
Susan was the worst possible influence in Ruth's life . 
Our character is ourself , is born with us , clings to us as the flesh to our bones , persists unchanged until we die . 
But upon the circumstances that surround us depends what part of our character shall show itself . 
Ruth was born with perhaps something more than the normal tendency to be envious and petty . 
But these qualities might never have shown themselves conspicuously had there been no Susan for her to envy . 
The very qualities that made Susan lovable reacted upon the pretty , pert blond cousin to make her the more unlovable . 
And at the high school , when Susan scored in a recitation or in some dramatic entertainment , Ruth would sit with bitten lip and surging bosom , pale with jealousy . 
Susan's isolation , the way the boys avoided having with her the friendly relations that spring up naturally among young people these gave Ruth a partial revenge . 
But Susan , seemingly unconscious , rising sweetly and serenely above all pettiness Ruth's hatred deepened , though she hid it from everyone , almost from herself . 
And she depended more and more utterly upon Susan to select her clothes for her , to dress her , to make her look well for Susan had taste and Ruth had not . 
I'll have no chance at all , her angry heart was saying , so long as Susie's around , keeping everybody reminded of the family shame . 
And that was a truth she could not downface , mean and ungenerous though thinking it might be . 
At the corner of Maple Street Ruth's self control reached its limit . 
She halted , took the sample of silk from her glove . 
There was not a hint of her feelings in her countenance , for shame and the desire to seem to be better than she was were fast making her an adept in hypocrisy . 
You go ahead and match it for mamma , said she . 
I've got to run in and see Bessie Andrews . 
But I promised Uncle George I'd come and help him with the monthly bills , objected Susan . 
It'll take you only a minute . 
If mother had known you were going uptown , she'd never have trusted me . 
And Ruth had tucked the sample in Susan's belt and was hurrying out Maple Street . 
There was nothing for Susan to do but go on alone . 
Two squares , and she was passing the show place of Sutherland , the home of the Wrights . 
She was starting on when she saw among the trees a young man in striped flannels . 
At the same instant he saw her . 
Hel lo , Susie ! he cried . 
I was thinking about you . 
When did you get back , Sam ? she asked . 
I heard you were going to stay on in the East all summer . 
After they had shaken hands across the hedge that came almost to their shoulders , Susan began to move on . 
Sam kept pace with her on his side of the carefully trimmed boxwood barrier . 
I'm going back East in about two weeks , said he . 
It's awfully dull here after Yale . 
I just blew in haven't seen Lottie or father yet . 
Coming to Lottie's party ? No , said Susan . 
Why not ? Susan laughed merrily . 
The best reason in the world . 
Lottie has only invited just so many couples . 
I'll see about that , cried Sam . 
You'll be asked all right , all right . 
She was one of those whose way of saying no gives its full meaning and intent . 
I'll not be asked , thank you and I'll not go if I am . 
By this time they were at the gate . 
He opened it , came out into the street . 
He was a tallish , athletic youth , dark , and pleasing enough of feature to be called handsome . 
He was dressed with a great deal of style of the efflorescent kind called sophomoric . 
He was a Sophomore at Yale . 
But that was not so largely responsible for his self complacent expression as the deference he had got from babyhood through being heir apparent to the Wright fortune . 
He had a sophisticated way of inspecting Susan's charms of figure no less than charms of face that might have made a disagreeable impression upon an experienced onlooker . 
There is a time for feeling without knowing why one feels and that period ought not to have been passed for young Wright for many a year . 
My , but you're looking fine , Susie ! exclaimed he . 
I haven't seen anyone that could hold a candle to you even in the East . 
Susan laughed and blushed with pleasure . 
Go on , said she with raillery . 
Come in and sit under the trees and I'll fill all the time you'll give me . 
I must hurry uptown , she said . 
Hold on ! cried he . 
What have you got to do ? He happened to glance down the street . 
Isn't that Ruth coming ? So it is , said Susan . 
I guess Bessie Andrews wasn't at home . 
Sam waved at Ruth and called , Hello ! Glad to see you . 
Ruth was all sweetness and smiles . 
She and her mother quite privately and with nothing openly said on either side had canvassed Sam as a possibility . 
There had been keen disappointment at the news that he was not coming home for the long vacation . 
How are you , Sam ? said she , as they shook hands . 
My , Susie , doesn't he look New York ? Sam tried to conceal that he was swelling with pride . 
Oh , this is nothing , said he deprecatingly . 
Ruth's heart was a flutter . 
The Fisher picture of the Chambers love maker , thought she , might almost be a photograph of Sam . 
She was glad she had obeyed the mysterious impulse to make a toilette of unusual elegance that morning . 
How get rid of Susan ? I 'll take the sample , Susie , said she . 
Then you won't have to keep father waiting . 
Susie gave up the sample . 
Her face was no longer so bright and interested . 
Oh , drop it , cried Sam . 
Come in both of you . 
I'll telephone for Joe Andrews and we'll take a drive or anything you like . 
He was looking at Susan . 
Can't do it , replied Susan . 
Oh , bother ! urged Sam . 
It'll be all right won't it , Ruth ? You don't know Susie , said Ruth , with a queer , strained laugh . 
She'd rather die than break a promise . 
I must go , Susan now said . 
Come on , Ruth , cried Sam . 
Let's walk uptown with her . 
And you can help match the silk , said Ruth . 
Not for me , replied young Wright . 
Then to Susan , What've you got to do ? Maybe it's something I could help at . 
No. It's for Uncle George and me . 
Well , I'll go as far as the store . 
They were now in the business part of Main Street , were at Wilson's dry goods store . 
You might find it here , suggested the innocent Susan to her cousin . 
Ruth colored , veiled her eyes to hide their flash . 
I've got to go to the store first to get some money , she hastily improvised . 
Sam had been walking between the two girls . 
He now changed to the outside and , so , put himself next Susan alone , put Susan between him and Ruth . 
The maneuver seemed to be a mere politeness , but Ruth knew better . 
What fate had intended as her lucky day was being changed into unlucky by this cousin of hers . 
She tried to gather herself together , to think up something funny or at least interesting with which to break into the tete a tete and draw Sam to herself . 
She could think nothing but envious , hateful thoughts . 
At the doors of Warham and Company , wholesale and retail grocers , the three halted . 
I guess I'll go to Vandermark's , said Ruth . 
I really don't need money . 
No I'm going back home . 
I ought to see Lottie and father . 
My , but it's dull in this town ! Well , so long , said Susan . 
She nodded , sparkling of hair and skin and eyes , and went into the store . 
Sam and Ruth watched her as she walked down the broad aisle between the counters . 
From the store came a mingling of odors of fruit , of spices , of freshly ground coffee . 
Susan's an awful pretty girl , isn't she ? declared Sam with rude enthusiasm . 
Indeed she is , replied Ruth as heartily and with an honest if discouraged effort to feel enthusiastic . 
What a figure ! And she has such a good walk . 
Come on to Vandermark's with me and I'll stroll back with you , offered Ruth . 
Ruth's eyes were upon Sam , handsome , dressed in the Eastern fashion , an ideal lover . 
Come on , Sam , urged Ruth . 
No , thanks , he replied absently . 
Good luck ! And not glancing at her , he lifted his straw hat with its band of Yale blue and set out . 
Ruth moved slowly and disconsolately in the opposite direction . 
She was ashamed of her thoughts but shame never yet withheld anybody from being human in thought . 
As she turned to enter Vandermark's she glanced down the street . 
There was Sam , returned and going into her father's store . 
She hesitated , could devise no plan of action , hurried into the dry goods store . 
Sinclair , the head salesman and the beau of Sutherland , was an especial friend of hers . 
But that morning Sinclair exerted his charms in vain . 
Which said , she fairly bolted from the store . 
She arrived barely in time . 
Young Wright was issuing from Warham and Company . 
He smiled friendly enough , but Ruth knew where his thoughts were . 
Get what you wanted ? inquired he , and went on to explain I came back to find out if you and Susie were to be at home this evening . 
Ruth paled with angry dismay . 
She was going to a party at the Sinclairs' one to which Susan was not invited . 
Aren't you going to Sinclairs' ? said she . 
But I thought I'd rather call . 
Perhaps I'll go there later . 
But Sam was absent and humiliatingly near to curt . 
He halted at his father's gate . 
She halted also , searched the grounds with anxious eyes for sign of Lottie that would give her the excuse for entering . 
So long , said Sam . 
Do come to Sinclairs' early . 
You always did dance so well . 
Oh , dancing bores me , said the blase Sophomore . 
But I'll be round before the shindy's over . 
I've got to take Lot home . 
He lifted the hat again with what both he and Ruth regarded as a gesture of most elegant carelessness . 
Ruth strolled reluctantly on , feeling as if her toilet had been splashed or crushed . 
As she entered the front door her mother , in a wrapper and curl papers , appeared at the head of the stairs . 
Where's the silk ? It's for your dress tonight , you know . 
It'll be along , was Ruth's answer , her tone dreary , her lip quivering . 
Oh ! exclaimed her mother . 
He's back , is he ? Ruth did not reply . 
She came on up the stairs , went into the sitting room the room where Doctor Stevens seventeen years before had torn the baby Susan from the very claws of death . 
She flung herself down , buried her head in her arms upon that same table . 
She burst into a storm of tears . 
But you'll be at Sinclairs' ! exclaimed Mrs. Warham . 
Not Susan , sobbed Ruth . 
He wants to see only her . 
She was at woman's second critical age , and the strange emotions working in her mind of whose disorder no one had an inkling were upon the surface now . 
She ventured this freedom of facial expression because her daughter's face was hid . 
Then she left the room . 
She did not know what to do , but she knew she must and would do something . 
CHAPTER III THE telephone was downstairs , in the rear end of the hall which divided the lower floor into two equal parts . 
Then I'll send Susan in your place . 
Don't ! cried Ruth , in an agitated , angry voice . 
Ring off quick ! Now , Ruth , let me Ring off ! ordered Ruth . 
You'll have the whole town talking about how I'm throwing myself at Sam's head and that I'm jealous of Susan . 
Mrs. Warham said , Never mind into the telephone sender and hung up the receiver . 
She was frightened , but not convinced . 
Hers was a slow , old fashioned mind , and to it the scheme it had worked out seemed a model of skillful duplicity . 
But Ruth , of the younger and subtler generation , realized instantly how transparent the thing was . 
Mrs. Warham was abashed but not angered by her daughter's curt contempt . 
It's the only way I can think of , said she . 
And I still don't see Of course you don't , cut in Ruth , ruffled by the perilously narrow escape from being the laughing stock of the town . 
People aren't as big fools as they used to be , mamma . 
They don't believe nowadays everything that's told them . 
There isn't anybody that doesn't know I'm never sick . 
No we'll have to She reflected a moment , pausing halfway down the stairs , while her mother watched her swollen and tear stained face . 
We might send Susan away for the evening , suggested the mother . 
Yes , assented the daughter . 
Papa could take her with him for a drive to North Sutherland to see the Provosts . 
Then Sam'd come straight on to the Sinclairs' . 
I'll call up your father . 
No ! cried Ruth , stamping her foot . 
Call up Mr. Provost , and tell him papa's coming . 
Then you can talk with papa when he gets home to dinner . 
But maybe If that doesn't work out we can do something else this afternoon . 
The mother and the daughter avoided each other's eyes . 
Both felt mean and small , guilty toward Susan but neither was for that reason disposed to draw back . 
As Mrs. Warham was trying the new dress on her daughter , she said Anyhow , Sam'd be wasting time on Susan . 
He'd hang round her for no good . 
She'd simply get talked about . 
The poor child can't be lively or smile but what people begin to wonder if she's going the way of of Lorella . 
That's so , agreed Ruth , and both felt better . 
Was Aunt Lorella very pretty , mamma ? Lovely ! replied Fanny , and her eyes grew tender , for she had adored Lorella . 
You never saw such a complexion like Susan's , only snow white . 
Nervously and hastily , Most as fine as yours , Ruthie . 
Ruth gazed complacently into the mirror . 
I'm glad I'm fair , and not big , said she . 
Yes , indeed ! I like the womanly woman . 
Don't you think we ought to send Susan away to visit somewhere ? asked Ruth at the next opportunity for talk the fitting gave . 
It's getting more and more pointed the way people act . 
And she's so sweet and good , I'd hate to have her feelings hurt . 
In a burst of generosity , She's the most considerate human being I ever knew . 
She'd give up anything rather than see someone else put out . 
She's too much that way . 
We can't be too much that way , said Mrs. Warham in mechanical Christian reproof . 
Oh , I know , retorted Ruth , that's all very well for church and Sundays . 
But I guess if you want to get along you've got to look out for Number One . 
Yes , she ought to visit somewhere . 
I've been trying to think , said her mother . 
She couldn't go any place but your Uncle Zeke's . 
But it's so lonesome out there I haven't the heart to send her . 
Besides , she wouldn't know what to make of it . 
What'd father say ? That's another thing . 
Mrs. Warham had latterly grown jealous not without reason of her husband's partiality for Susan . 
Oh , dear ! cried she . 
I don't know what to do . 
How's she ever going to get married ! If she'd only been a boy ! said Mrs. Warham , on her knees , taking the unevenness out of the front of the skirt . 
A girl has to suffer for her mother's sins . 
She smiled to herself the comment of the younger generation upon the older . 
Sin it might have been but , worse than that , it was a stupidity to let a man make a fool of her . 
Lorella must have been a poor weak minded creature . 
By dinner time Ruth had completely soothed and smoothed her vanity . 
Sam had been caught by Susan simply because he had seen Susan before he saw her . 
All that would be necessary was a good chance at him , and he would never look at Susan again . 
He had been in the East , where the admired type was her own refined , ladylike , the woman of the dainty appearance and manners and tastes . 
A brief undisturbed exposure to her charms and Susan would seem coarse and countrified to him . 
There was no denying that Susan had style , but it was fully effective only when applied to a sunny fairy like beauty such as hers . 
But at midday , when Susan came in with Warham , Ruth's jealousy opened all her inward bleeding wounds again . 
Warham , mere man , was amused by his wife's scheming . 
Don't put yourself out , Fanny , said he . 
If the boy wants Ruth and she wants him , why , well and good . 
But you'll only make a mess interfering . 
Let the young people alone . 
I'm surprised , George Warham , cried Fanny , that you can show so little sense and heart . 
To hear you talk , I'd think marriage was a business , like groceries . 
Mrs. Warham thought it was , in a sense . 
But she would never have dared say so aloud , even to her husband or , rather , especially to her husband . 
I guess we both want to see Ruth married well , was all she could venture . 
I'd rather the girls stayed with us , declared Warham . 
I'd hate to give them up . 
Of course , hastily agreed Fanny . 
Still it's the regular order of nature . 
Oh , Ruth'll marry only too soon , said Warham . 
I'm not so sure , though , that marrying any of old Wright's breed would be marrying what ought to be called well . 
Money isn't everything not by a long sight though , of course , it's comfortable . 
I never heard anything against Sam , protested Mrs. Warham . 
You've heard what I've heard that he's wild and loose . 
But then you women like that in a man . 
We've got to put up with it , you mean , cried Fanny , indignant . 
Women like it , persisted Warham . 
And I guess Sam's only sowing the usual wild oats , getting ready to settle . 
No , mother , you let Ruth alone . 
If she wants him , she'll get him she or Susan . 
Mrs. Warham compressed her lips and lowered her eyes . 
Ruth or Susan as if it didn't matter which ! Susan isn't ours , she could not refrain from saying . 
Indeed , she is ! retorted George warmly . 
Why , she couldn't be more our own Yes , certainly , interrupted Fanny . 
She moved toward the door . 
She saw that without revealing her entire scheme hers and Ruth's she could make no headway with George . 
And if she did reveal it he would sternly veto it . 
So she gave up that direction . 
She went upstairs George took his hat from the front hall rack and pushed open the screen door . 
Ruth lowered her eyes and compressed her lips , a trick she had borrowed from her mother along with the peculiarities of her mother's disposition that it fitted . 
Susan flung a laughing glance over her shoulder at her uncle . 
Not Ruth , said she . 
I saw him first , so he's mine . 
He's coming to see me this evening . 
Well , the moon's full and your aunt and I'll not interrupt at least not till ten o'clock . 
No callers on a child like you after ten . 
Oh , I don't think I'll be able to hold him that long . 
Don't you fret , Brownie . 
But I mustn't make you vain . 
Coming along to the store ? No. Tomorrow , said Susan . 
I can finish in the morning . 
I'm going to wear my white dress with embroidery , and it's got to be pressed and that means I must do it myself . 
Poor Sam ! And I suppose , when he calls , you'll come down as if you'd put on any old thing and didn't care whether he came or not . 
And you'll have primped for an hour and he , too shaving and combing and trying different ties . 
Susan sparkled at the idea of a young man , and such a young man , taking trouble for her . 
Ruth , pale , kept her eyes down and her lips compressed . 
When Warham departed down the walk Ruth rose she could not bear being alone with her triumphant rival triumphant because unconscious . 
She knew that to get Sam to herself all she would have to do would be to hint to Susan , the generous , what she wanted . 
As her hand was on the knob of the screen door , Susan said Why don't you like Sam ? Oh , I think he's stuck up . 
He's been spoiled in the East . 
Why , I don't see any sign of it . 
You were too flattered by his talking to you , said Ruth , with a sweet sour little laugh an asp of a sneer hid in a basket of flowers . 
Susan felt the sting but , seeing only the flowers , did not dream whence it had come . 
It was nice , wasn't it ? said she , gayly . 
Maybe you're right about him , but I can't help liking him . 
You must admit he's handsome . 
He has a bad look in his eyes , replied Ruth . 
Such rage against Susan was swelling within her that it seemed to her she would faint if she did not release at least part of it . 
You want to look out for him , Susie , said she , calmly and evenly . 
You don't want to take what he says seriously . 
Of course not , said Susan , quite honestly , though she , no more than the next human being , could avoid taking seriously whatever was pleasantly flattering . 
He'd never think of marrying you . 
Ruth trembled before and after delivering this venomous shaft . 
Marrying ! cried Susan , again quite honestly . 
Why , I'm only seventeen . 
Ruth drew a breath of relief . 
The shaft had glanced off the armor of innocence without making the faintest dent . 
She rushed into the house . 
She did not dare trust herself with her cousin . 
What might the demon within her tempt her to say next ? Come up , Ruth ! called her mother . 
The dress is ready for the last try on . 
I think it's going to hang beautifully . 
Ruth dragged herself up the stairs , lagged into the sitting room , gazed at the dress with a scowl . 
What did father say ? she asked . 
It's no use trying to do anything with your father . 
Ruth flung herself in a corner of the sofa . 
The only thing I can think of , said her mother , humbly and timidly , is phone the Sinclairs as I originally set out to do . 
And have the whole town laughing at me . 
Oh , what do I care , anyhow ! Arthur Sinclair's taller and a sight handsomer . 
Right in the face , Sam's as plain as Dick's hatband . 
His looks is all clothes and polish and mighty poor polish , I think . 
Arthur's got rise in him , too , while Sam well , I don't know what'd become of him if old Wright lost his money . 
But Arthur , a mere promise , seemed poor indeed beside Sam , the actually arrived . 
To marry Sam would be to step at once into grandeur to marry Arthur would mean years of struggle . 
Besides , Arthur was heavy , at least seemed heavy to light Ruth , while Sam was her ideal of gay elegance . 
I detest Arthur Sinclair , she now announced . 
You can get Sam if you want him , said her mother confidently . 
One evening with a mere child like Susie isn't going to amount to much . 
Do you suppose I don't know that ? cried she . 
What makes me so mad is his impudence coming here to see her when he wouldn't marry her or take her any place . 
It's insulting to us all . 
Oh , I don't think it's as bad as all that , Ruthie , soothed her mother , too simple minded to accept immediately this clever subtlety of self deception . 
You know this town how people talk . 
Why , his sister and she related their conversation at the gate that morning . 
You ought to have sat on her hard , Ruth , said Mrs. Warham , with dangerously sparkling eyes . 
No matter what we may think privately , it gives people a low opinion of us to Don't I know that ! shrilled Ruth . 
But we must try the dress on . 
Mrs. Warham spread the skirt , using herself as form . 
Isn't it too lovely ! Ruth dried her eyes as she gazed . 
The dress was indeed lovely . 
But her pleasure in it was shadowed by the remembrance that most of the loveliness was due to Susan's suggestions . 
Still , she tried it on , and felt better . 
She would linger until Sam came , would exhibit herself to him and surely he would not tarry long with Susan . 
This project improved the situation greatly . 
She began her toilet for the evening at once , though it was only three o'clock . 
Susan did Ruth's hair over , made her change to another color of stockings and slippers , put the dress on her , did nearly an hour's refitting and redraping . 
Both were late for supper and after supper Susan had to make certain final amendments to the wonderful toilet , and then get herself ready . 
So it was Ruth alone who went down when Sam Wright came . 
My , but you do look all to the good , Ruth ! cried Sam . 
And his eyes no less than his tone showed that he meant it . 
He hadn't realized what a soft white neck the blond cousin had , or how perfectly her shoulders rounded into her slim arms . 
As Ruth moved to depart , he said Don't be in such a rush . 
Wait till Susie finishes her primping and comes down . 
She had to help me , said Ruth , with a righteousness she could justly plume herself upon . 
No , I must get along . 
She was wise enough to resist the temptation to improve upon an already splendid impression . 
Come as soon as you can . 
I'll be there in a few minutes , Sam assured her convincingly . 
Save some dances for me . 
At the gate she glanced furtively back . 
Sam was looking after her . 
She marched down the street with light step . 
I must wear low necked dresses more in the evenings , she said to herself . 
It's foolish for a girl to hide a good neck . 
She's a corker , said he . 
But I'm content to be where I am . 
Susan's dress was not cut out in the neck , was simply of the collarless kind girls of her age wear . 
It revealed the smooth , voluptuous yet slender column of her throat . 
And her arms , bare to just above the elbows , were exquisite . 
She was a clever girl clever beyond her years , perhaps though in this day seventeen is not far from fully developed womanhood . 
They talked of all manner of things games and college East and West the wonders of New York the weather , finally . 
Sam was every moment of the time puzzling how to bring up the one subject that interested both above all others , that interested him to the exclusion of all others . 
He was an ardent student of the game of man and woman , had made considerable progress at it remarkable progress , in view of his bare twenty years . 
He had devised as many openings as an expert chess player . 
None seemed to fit this difficult case how to make love to a girl of his own class whom his conventional , socially ambitious nature forbade him to consider marrying . 
As he observed her in the moonlight , he said to himself I've got to look out or I'll make a damn fool of myself with her . 
For his heady passion was fast getting the better of those prudent instincts he had inherited from a father who almost breathed by calculation . 
While he was still struggling for an opening , Susan eager to help him but not knowing how , there came from the far interior of the house three distant raps . 
It must be ten o'clock . 
With frank regret , I'm so sorry . 
I thought it was early . 
Yes , it did seem as if I'd just come , said Sam . 
Her shy innocence was contagious . 
He felt an awkward country lout . 
Well , I suppose I must go . 
But you'll come again sometime ? she asked wistfully . 
I'd have hard work staying away . 
But Ruth she'll always be here . 
Oh , she goes out a lot and I don't . 
Will you telephone me next time she's to be out ? Yes , agreed she with a hesitation that was explained when she added But don't think you've got to come . 
Oh , I must go in ! Good night Susie . 
Sam held out his hand . 
She took it with a queer reluctance . 
She felt nervous , afraid , as if there were something uncanny lurking somewhere in those moonlight shadows . 
She gently tried to draw her hand away , but he would not let her . 
She made a faint struggle , then yielded . 
It was so wonderful , the sense of the touch of his hand . 
Susie ! he said hoarsely . 
And she knew he felt as she did . 
Before she realized it his arms were round her , and his lips had met hers . 
You drive me crazy , he whispered . 
Both were trembling she had become quite cold her cheeks , her hand , her body even . 
You mustn't , she murmured , drawing gently away . 
You set me crazy , he repeated . 
Do you love me a little ? Oh , I must go ! she pleaded . 
Tears were glistening in her long dark lashes . 
The sight of them maddened him . 
Do you Susie ? he pleaded . 
I'm I'm very young , she stammered . 
Yes yes I know , he assented eagerly . 
But not too young to love , Susie ? No. Because you do don't you ? The moonlit world seemed a fairyland . 
Yes , she said softly . 
And moved beyond her power to control herself , she broke from his detaining hand and fled into the house . 
She darted up to her room , paused in the middle of the floor , her hands clasped over her wildly beating heart . 
When she could move she threw open the shutters and went out on the balcony . 
She leaned against the window frame and gazed up at the stars , instinctively seeking the companionship of the infinite . 
Curiously enough , she thought little about Sam . 
She was awed and wonderstruck before the strange mysterious event within her , the opening up , the flowering of her soul . 
She was amazed to find she was repeating the one prayer she knew , the one Aunt Fanny had taught her in babyhood . 
Why , it must be dreadfully late . 
Ruth's lights shone out upon the balcony . 
Susan turned to slip into her own room . 
But Ruth heard , called out peevishly Who's there ? Only me , cried Susan . 
She longed to go in and embrace Ruth , and kiss her . 
She would have liked to ask Ruth to let her sleep with her , but she felt Ruth wouldn't understand . 
What are you doing out there ? demanded Ruth . 
Oh dear I must go to bed , cried Susan . 
Ruth's voice somehow seemed to be knocking and tumbling her new dream world . 
What time did Sam Wright leave here ? asked Ruth . 
She was standing in her window now . 
Susan saw that her face looked tired and worn , almost homely . 
At ten , she replied . 
Uncle George knocked on the banister . 
Are you sure it was ten ? said Ruth sharply . 
Was he at Sinclairs' ? He came as it was over . 
He and Lottie brought me home . 
Ruth was eyeing her cousin evilly . 
How did you two get on ? Susan flushed from head to foot . 
Oh so so , she answered , in an uncertain voice . 
I don't know why he didn't come to Sinclairs' , snapped Ruth . 
Susan flushed again a delicious warmth from head to foot . 
So he , too , had been dreaming alone . 
Love ! Love ! What are you smiling at ? cried Ruth crossly . 
Do you want me to help you undress ? No , was the curt answer . 
Please let me unhook it , at least , urged Susan , following Ruth into her room . 
Did you have a good time ? asked Susan . 
Of course , snapped Ruth . 
What made you think I didn't ? Don't be a silly , dear . 
I had an awful time awful ! Ruth began to sob , turned fiercely on Susan . 
Leave me alone ! she cried . 
I hate to have you touch me . 
The dress was , of course , entirely unfastened in the back . 
You had a quarrel with Arthur ? asked Susan with sympathy . 
But you know he can't keep away from you . 
Tomorrow Be careful , Susan , how you let Sam Wright hang around you , cried Ruth , with blazing eyes and trembling lips . 
You be careful that's all I've got to say . 
Why , what do you mean ? asked Susan wonderingly . 
Be careful ! He'd never think for a minute of marrying you . 
The words meant nothing to Susan but the tone stabbed into her heart . 
Why not ? she said . 
Ruth looked at her cousin , hung her head in shame . 
Go go ! she begged . 
I'm a bad girl bad bad ! Go ! And , crying hysterically , she pushed amazed Susan through the connecting door , closed and bolted it . 
The horror of this made such an impression upon her that she never permitted Ruth and Susan to be awakened always they slept until they had had their sleep out . 
Regularity was no doubt an excellent thing for health and for moral discipline but the best rule could be carried to foolish extremes . 
In all her life thus far Susan had never slept less than ten hours , rarely less than twelve . 
It lacked less than a minute of ten o'clock the morning after Sam's call when Susan's eyes opened upon her simple , pale gray bedroom , neat and fresh . 
She looked sleepily at the little clock on the night stand . 
Mercy me ! she cried . 
And her bare feet were on the floor and she was stretching her lithe young body , weak from the relaxation of her profound sleep . 
She heard someone stirring in Ruth's room instantly Ruth's remark , He'd never think for a minute of marrying you , popped into her head . 
It still meant nothing to her . 
She could not have explained why it came back or why she fell to puzzling over it as if it held some mysterious meaning . 
She was wondering about Ruth's queer hysterical outburst , evidently the result of a quarrel with Arthur Sinclair . 
I guess Ruth cares more for him than she lets on , thought she . 
This love that had come to her so suddenly and miraculously made her alert for signs of love elsewhere . 
She went to the bolted connecting door she could not remember when it had ever been bolted before , and she felt forlorn and shut out . 
Is that you ? A brief silence , then a faint Yes . 
May I come in ? You'd better take your bath and get downstairs . 
This reminded her that she was hungry . 
She gathered her underclothes together , and with the bundle in her arms darted across the hall into the bathroom . 
The cold water acted as champagne promises to act but doesn't . 
She felt giddy with health and happiness . 
And the bright sun was flooding the bathroom , and the odors from the big bed of hyacinths in the side lawn scented the warm breeze from the open window . 
When she dashed back to her room she was singing , and her singing voice was as charming as her speaking voice promised . 
A few minutes and her hair had gone up in careless grace and she was clad in a fresh dress of tan linen , full in the blouse . 
This , with her tan stockings and tan slippers and the radiant youth of her face , gave her a look of utter cleanness and freshness that was exceedingly good to see . 
I'm ready , she called . 
There was no answer doubtless Ruth had already descended . 
She rushed downstairs and into the dining room . 
No one was at the little table set in one of the windows in readiness for the late breakfasters . 
Molly came , bringing cocoa , a cereal , hot biscuit and crab apple preserves , all attractively arranged on a large tray . 
I didn't bring much , Miss Susie , she apologized . 
It's so late , and I don't want you to spoil your dinner . 
We're going to have the grandest chicken that ever came out of an egg . 
Susan surveyed the tray with delighted eyes . 
That's plenty , she said , if you don't talk too much about the chicken . 
Where's Ruth ? She ain't coming down . 
It was that salad for supper over to Sinclairs' last night . 
Salad ain't fit for a dog to eat , nohow that's my opinion . 
And at night it's sure to bust your face out or give you the headache or both . 
Susan ate with her usual enthusiasm , thinking the while of Sam and wondering how she could contrive to see him . 
She remembered her promise to her uncle . 
She had not eaten nearly so much as she wanted . 
But up she sprang and in fifteen minutes was on her way to the store . 
She had seen neither Ruth nor her aunt . 
He 'll be waiting for me to pass , she thought . 
And she was not disappointed . 
There he stood , at the footpath gate into his father's place . 
He had arrayed himself in a blue and white flannel suit , white hat and shoes a big expensive looking cigarette adorned his lips . 
The Martins , the Delevans , the Castles and the Bowens , neighbors across the way , were watching him admiringly through the meshes of lace window curtains . 
She expected that he would come forward eagerly . 
Instead , he continued to lean indolently on the gate , as if unaware of her approach . 
And when she was close at hand , his bow and smile were , so it seemed to her , almost coldly polite . 
Into her eyes came a confused , hurt expression . 
Susie sweetheart , he said , the voice in as astonishing contrast as the words to his air of friendly indifference . 
They're watching us from the windows all around here . 
Oh yes , assented she , as if she understood . 
In Sutherland the young people were not so mindful of gossip , which it was impossible to escape , anyhow . 
Still off there in the East , no doubt , they had more refined ways without a doubt , whatever Sam did was the correct thing . 
Do you still care as you did last night ? he asked . 
The effect of his words upon her was so obvious that he glanced nervously round . 
It was delightful to be able to evoke a love like this but he did wish others weren't looking . 
I'm going to Uncle's store , she said . 
I'll walk part of the way with you , he volunteered , and they started on . 
That that kiss , he stammered . 
I can feel it yet . 
She blushed deeply , happily . 
Her beauty made him tingle . 
So can I , she said . 
They walked in silence several squares . 
When will I see you again ? he asked . 
Tonight ? Yes do come down . 
I believe Artie Sinclair's coming . 
Oh , that counter jumper ? She looked at him in surprise . 
He's an awfully nice fellow , said she . 
About the nicest in town . 
Of course , replied Sam elaborately . 
They think differently about those things in the East . 
What thing ? No matter . 
I suppose Ruth and Sinclair'll pair off and give us a chance . 
You'll come ? Right after din supper , I mean . 
In the East we have dinner in the evening . 
Isn't that queer ! exclaimed Susan . 
But she was thinking of the joys in store for her at the close of the day . 
I must go back now , said Sam . 
Far up the street he saw his sister's pony cart coming . 
You might as well walk to the store . 
It seemed to her that they both had ever so much to say to each other , and had said nothing . 
No. I can't go any further . 
Good by that is , till tonight . 
He was red and stammering . 
As they shook hands emotion made them speechless . 
Susan did not see the loafers , did not see anything distinctly . 
Her feet sought the uneven brick sidewalk uncertainly , and the blood was pouring into her cheeks , was steaming in her brain , making a red mist before her eyes . 
She was glad he had left her . 
The joy of being with him was so keen that it was pain . 
Now she could breathe freely and could dream dream dream . 
She made blunder after blunder in working over the accounts with her uncle , and he began to tease her . 
You sure are in love , Brownie , declared he . 
Her painful but happy blush delighted him . 
Tell me all about it ? She shook her head , bending it low to hide her color . 
She was glancing shyly and merrily at him now . 
Well , some hold that first love's best . 
But it seems to me any time's good enough . 
Still the first time's mighty fine eh ? He sighed . 
My , but it's good to be young ! And he patted her thick wavy hair . 
It did not leak out until supper that Sam was coming . 
Warham said to Susan , While Ruth's looking out for Artie , you and I'll have a game or so of chess , Brownie . 
Are you going to have a beau too ? Susan felt two pairs of feminine eyes pounce hostile eyes , savagely curious . 
She paled with fright as queer , as unprecedented , as those hostile glances . 
It seemed to her that she had done or was about to do something criminal . 
A dead silence Warham silent because he was eating , but the two others not for that reason . 
Susan felt horribly guilty , and for no reason . 
I'd have spoken of it before , she said , but there didn't seem to be any chance . 
She had the instinct of fine shy nature to veil the soul she found it hard to speak of anything as sacred as this love of hers and whatever related to it . 
I can't allow this , Susie , said her aunt , with lips tightly drawn against the teeth . 
Oh , come now , mother , cried Warham , good humoredly . 
Let the young folks have a good time . 
You didn't think you were too young at Susie's age . 
You don't understand , George , said Fanny after she had given him a private frown . 
Susie's gaze was on the tablecloth . 
I can't permit Sam to come here to see Susie . 
Ruth's eyes were down also . 
About her lips was a twitching that meant a struggle to hide a pleased smile . 
I've no objection to Susie's having boys of her own age come to see her , continued Mrs. Warham in the same precise , restrained manner . 
But Sam is too old . 
Now , mother Mrs. Warham met his eyes steadily . 
I must protect my sister's child , George , she said . 
At last she had found what she felt was a just reason for keeping Sam away from Susan , so her tone was honest and strong . 
Oh as you think best , Fan I didn't mean to interfere , said he awkwardly . 
He turned on Susan with his affection in his eyes . 
Well , Brownie , it looks like chess with your old uncle , doesn't it ? Susan's bosom was swelling , her lip trembling . 
She choked back the sobs , faltered out I don't think I could , Uncle , and rushed from the room . 
There was an uncomfortable pause . 
Then Warham said , I must say , Fan , I think if you had to do it you might have spared the girl's feelings . 
Mrs. Warham felt miserable about it also . 
Susie took me by surprise , she apologized . 
Then , defiantly , And what else can I do ? You know he doesn't come for any good . 
Now , what does that mean ? he demanded . 
You know very well what it means , retorted his wife . 
Her tone made him understand . 
He reddened , and with too blustering anger brought his fist down on the table . 
Ruth pushed back her chair and stood up . 
Her expression made her look much older than she was . 
I wish you could induce the rest of the town to think that , papa , said she . 
It'd make my position less painful . 
And she , too , left the room . 
What's she talking about ? asked Warham . 
It's true , George , replied Fanny with trembling lip . 
It's all my fault insisting on keeping her . 
I might have known ! I think you and Ruth must be crazy . 
He looked helplessly , furiously about . 
To fight public sentiment would be like trying to thrust back with one's fists an oncreeping fog . 
Finally he cried , It's too outrageous to talk about . 
If I only knew what to do ! moaned Fanny . 
A long silence , while Warham was grasping the fullness of the meaning , the frightful meaning , in these revelations so astounding to him . 
At last he said Does she realize ? I guess so . 
I don't believe she does . 
She's the most innocent child that ever grew up . 
If I had a chance , I'd sell out and move away . 
Where ? said his wife . 
Where would people accept her ? Warham became suddenly angry again . 
I don't believe it ! he cried , his look and tone contradicting his words . 
You've been making a mountain out of a molehill . 
And he strode from the room , flung on his hat and went for a walk . 
As Mrs. Warham came from the dining room a few minutes later , Ruth appeared in the side veranda doorway . 
I think I'll telephone Arthur to come tomorrow evening instead , said she . 
He'd not like it , with Sam here too . 
That would be better , assented her mother . 
Yes , I'd telephone him if I were you . 
Some others are coming the Wrights . 
You'd have to talk to Lottie . 
The girl on the stairway stopped short , shrank against the wall . 
A moment , and she hastily reascended , entered her room , closed the door . 
Love had awakened the woman and the woman was not so unsuspecting , so easily deceived as the child had been . 
She understood what her cousin and her aunt were about they were trying to take her lover from her ! She understood her aunt's looks and tones , her cousin's temper and hysteria . 
She sat down upon the floor and cried with a breaking heart . 
The sound of voices coming through the open window from below made her start up and go out on the balcony . 
She leaned over the rail . 
She could not see the veranda for the masses of creeper , but the voices were now quite plain in the stillness . 
Ruth's voice gay and incessant . 
Sore of heart , utterly forlorn , she sat in the balcony hammock , aching with love and jealousy . 
Every now and then she ran in and looked at the clock . 
He was staying on and on , though he must have learned she was not coming down . 
She heard her uncle and aunt come up to bed . 
Now the piano in the parlor was going . 
First it was Ruth singing one of her pretty love songs in that clear small voice of hers . 
Then Sam played and sang how his voice thrilled her ! Again it was Ruthie singing Sweet Dream Faces Susan began to sob afresh . 
She could see Ruth at the piano , how beautiful she looked and that song it would be impossible for him not to be impressed . 
She felt the jealousy of despair . 
Ten o'clock half past eleven o'clock ! She heard them at the edge of the veranda so , at last he was going . 
She was able to hear their words now You'll be up for the tennis in the morning ? he was saying . 
At ten , replied Ruth . 
Of course Susie's asked , too , he said and his voice sounded careless , not at all earnest . 
Certainly , was her cousin's reply . 
But I'm not sure she can come . 
It was all the girl at the balcony rail could do to refrain from crying out a protest . 
But Sam was saying to Ruth Well good night . 
Haven't had so much fun in a long time . 
May I come again ? If you don't , I'll think you were bored . 
See you in the morning . 
Give my love to Susie , and tell her I was sorry not to see her . 
Susan was all in a glow as her cousin answered , I'll tell her . 
doubtless Sam didn't note it , but Susan heard the constraint , the hypocrisy in that sweet voice . 
She watched him stroll down to the gate under the arch of boughs dimly lit by the moon . 
She stretched her arms passionately toward him . 
Then she went in to go to bed . 
But at the sound of Ruth humming gayly in the next room , she realized that she could not sleep with her heart full of evil thoughts . 
She must have it out with her cousin . 
She knocked on the still bolted door . 
What is it ? asked Ruth coldly . 
Let me in , answered Susan . 
I've got to see you . 
Go to bed , Susie . 
You must let me in . 
And please unhook my dress there's a dear . 
Susan opened the door , stood on the threshold , all her dark passion in her face . 
Ruth had turned her back , in readiness for the service the need of which had alone caused her to unbolt the door . 
At that swift , fierce ejaculation she started , wheeled round . 
At sight of that wild anger she paled . 
Why , Susie ! she gasped . 
I've found you out ! raged Susan . 
You're trying to steal him from me you and Aunt Fanny . 
It isn't fair ! I'll not stand it ! What are you talking about ? cried Ruth . 
You must have lost your senses . 
I'll not stand it , Susan repeated , advancing threateningly He loves me and I love him . 
You foolish girl ! Why , he cares nothing about you . 
The idea of your having your head turned by a little politeness ! He loves me he told me so . 
He's mine ! You shan't take him from me ! He told you he loved you ? Ruth's eyes were gleaming and her voice was shrill with hate . 
He told you that ? Yes he did ! I don't believe you . 
We love each other , cried the dark girl . 
He came to see me . 
You shan't take him away ! The two girls , shaking with fury , were facing each other , were looking into each other's eyes . 
If Sam Wright told you he loved you , said Ruth , with the icy deliberateness of a cold hearted anger , he was trying to to make a fool of you . 
You ought to be ashamed of yourself . 
We 're trying to save you . 
He and I are engaged ! declared Susan . 
You shan't take him and you can't ! He loves me ! Engaged ! jeered Ruth . 
Engaged ! she laughed , pretending not to believe , yet believing . 
She was beside herself with jealous anger . 
Yes we'll save you from yourself . 
You'd disgrace us as she did . 
Don't you dare talk that way , Ruth Warham . 
It's false false ! My mother is dead and you're a wicked girl . 
It's time you knew the truth , said Ruth softly . 
Her eyes were half shut now and sparkling devilishly . 
You haven't got any name . 
You haven't got any father . 
And no man of any position would marry you . 
As for Sam She laughed contemptuously . 
Do you suppose Sam Wright would marry a girl without a name ? Susan had shrunk against the door jamb . 
She understood only dimly , but things understood dimly are worse than things that are clear . 
Me ? Oh , Ruth , you don't mean that . 
It's true , said Ruth , calmly . 
And the sooner you realize it the less likely you are to go the way your mother did . 
Susan stood as if petrified . 
If Sam Wright comes hanging round you any more , you'll know how to treat him , Ruth went on . 
You'll appreciate that he hasn't any respect for you that he thinks you're someone to be trifled with . 
And if he talked engagement , it was only a pretense . 
Do you understand ? The girl leaning in the doorway gazed into vacancy . 
After a while she answered dully , I guess so . 
Ruth began to fuss with the things on her bureau . 
Susan went into her room , sat on the edge of the bed . 
A few minutes , and Ruth , somewhat cooled down and not a little frightened , entered . 
She looked uneasily at the motionless figure . 
Finally she said , Susie ! No answer . 
More sharply , Susie ! Yes , said Susan , without moving . 
You understand that I told you for your own good ? And you'll not say anything to mother or father ? They feel terribly about it , and don't want it ever mentioned . 
You won't let on that you know ? I'll not tell , said Susan . 
You know we're fond of you and want to do everything for you ? No answer . 
It wasn't true what you said about Sam's making love to you ? That's all over . 
I don't want to talk about it . 
You're not angry with me , Susie ? I admit I was angry , but it was best for you to know wasn't it ? Yes , said Susan . 
You're not angry with me ? No. Ruth , still more uneasy , turned back into her own room because there was nothing else to do . 
She did not shut the door between . 
When she was in her nightgown she glanced in at her cousin . 
The girl was sitting on the edge of the bed in the same position . 
It's after midnight , said Ruth . 
I will , she said . 
Ruth went to bed and soon fell asleep . 
After an hour or so she awakened . 
Light was streaming through the open connecting door . 
She ran to it , looked in . 
Susan's clothes were in a heap beside the bed . 
Susan herself , with the pillows propping her , was staring wide eyed at the ceiling . 
Susie , dear , she said gently , do you want me to turn out the light ? Yes , said Susan . 
Ruth switched off the light and went back to bed , better content . 
She felt that now Susan would stop her staring and would go to sleep . 
Sam's call had been very satisfactory . 
Ruth felt she had shown off to the best advantage , felt that he admired her , would come to see her next time . 
And now that she had so arranged it that Susan would avoid him , everything would turn out as she wished . 
I'll use Arthur to make him jealous after a while and then I'll have things my own way . 
As she fell asleep she was selecting the rooms Sam and she would occupy in the big Wright mansion when we're not in the East or in Europe . 
CHAPTER V RUTH had forgotten to close her shutters , so toward seven o'clock the light which had been beating against her eyelids for three hours succeeded in lifting them . 
She stretched herself and yawned noisily . 
Susan appeared in the connecting doorway . 
Are you awake ? she said softly . 
What time is it ? asked Ruth , too lazy to turn over and look at her clock . 
Do close my shutters for me . 
I'll sleep an hour or two . 
She hazily made out the figure in the doorway . 
You're dressed , aren't you ? she inquired sleepily . 
I've been waiting for you to wake . 
Something in the tone made Ruth forget about sleep and rub her fingers over her eyes to clear them for a view of her cousin . 
Susan seemed about as usual perhaps a little serious , but then she had the habit of strange moods of seriousness . 
What did you want ? said Ruth . 
Susan came into the room , sat at the foot of the bed there was room , as the bed was long and Ruth short . 
I want you to tell me what my mother did . 
Did ? echoed Ruth feebly . 
Did , to disgrace you and me . 
Oh , I couldn't explain not in a few words . 
Don't bother about it , Susan . 
And she thrust her head deeper into the pillow . 
Then I'll have to ask Aunt Fanny or Uncle George or everybody till I find out . 
But you mustn't do that , protested Ruth , flinging herself from left to right impatiently . 
What is it you want to know ? About my mother and what she did . 
And why I have no father why I'm not like you and the other girls . 
And it doesn't really matter . 
I've been thinking , said Susan . 
I understand a great many things I didn't know I'd noticed ever since I was a baby . 
But what I don't understand She drew a long breath , a cautious breath , as if there were danger of awakening a pain . 
What I don't understand is why . 
And you must tell me all about it . 
Was my mother bad ? Not exactly bad , Ruth answered uncertainly . 
But she did one thing that was wicked at least that a woman never can be forgiven for , if it's found out . 
Did she did she take something that didn't belong to her ? No nothing like that . 
No , she was , they say , as nice and sweet as she could be except She wasn't married to your father . 
Susan sat in a brown study . 
I can't understand , she said at last . 
Why she must have been married , or or there wouldn't have been me . 
Don't you really understand ? Susan shook her head . 
He he betrayed her and left her and then everybody knew because you came . 
Susan's violet gray eyes rested a grave , inquiring glance upon her cousin's face . 
But if he betrayed her What does betray' mean ? Doesn't it mean he promised to marry her and didn't ? Something like that , said Ruth . 
Then he was the disgrace , said the dark cousin , after reflecting . 
No you're not telling me , Ruth . 
What did my mother do ? She had you without being married . 
Again Susan sat in silence , trying to puzzle it out . 
Ruth lifted herself , put the pillows behind her back . 
You don't understand anything do you ? Well , I'll try to explain though I don't know much about it . 
Susan listened with increasing amazement . 
Well , do you understand ? Ruth ended . 
How we come into the world and what marriage means ? I don't believe it , declared Susan . 
It's awful ! And she shivered with disgust . 
I tell you it's true , insisted Ruth . 
I thought it was awful when I first heard when Lottie Wright took me out in their orchard , where nobody could listen , and told me what their cook had told her . 
But I've got kind of used to it . 
But it it's so , then my mother did marry my father , said Susan . 
No. She let him betray her . 
And when a woman lets a man betray her without being married by the preacher or somebody , why , she's ruined forever . 
But doesn't marriage mean where two people promise to love each other and then betray each other ? If they're married , it isn't betraying , explained Ruth . 
If they're not , it is betraying . 
Susan reflected , nodded slowly . 
But don't you see it was my father who was the disgrace ? He was the one that promised to marry and didn't . 
How foolish you are ! cried Ruth . 
I never knew you to be stupid . 
But isn't it so ? persisted Susan . 
Yes in a way , her cousin admitted . 
Only the woman must keep herself pure until the ceremony has been performed . 
And it's wicked to think such things . 
All I know is , God says a woman must be married before she before she has any children . 
I guess you don't understand any better than I do really . 
No , I don't , confessed Ruth . 
But I'd like to see any man more than kiss me or put his arm round me without our having been married . 
But , urged Susan , if he kissed you , wouldn't that be like marriage ? Some say so , admitted Ruth . 
But I'm not so strict . 
A little kissing and that often leads a man to propose . 
It all sounds low and sneaking to me , was her final verdict . 
I don't want to have anything to do with it . 
But I'm sure my mother was a good woman . 
It wasn't her fault if she was lied to , when she loved and believed . 
And anybody who blames her is low and bad . 
I'm glad I haven't got any father , if fathers have to be made to promise before everybody or else they'll not keep their word . 
Well , I'll not argue about it , said Ruth . 
I'm telling you the way things are . 
The woman has to take all the blame . 
Susan lifted her head haughtily . 
I'd be glad to be blamed by anybody who was wicked enough to be that unjust . 
I'd not have anything to do with such people . 
There are lots of people who are good and That's wicked , Susan , interrupted Ruth . 
All good people think as I tell you they do . 
Do Aunt Fanny and Uncle George blame my mother ? Of course . 
How could they help it , when she Ruth was checked by the gathering lightnings in those violet gray eyes . 
But , pursued Susan , after a pause , even if they were wicked enough to blame my mother , they couldn't blame me . 
Of course not , declared Ruth warmly . 
Hasn't everybody always been sweet and kind to you ? But last night you said Ruth hid her face . 
I'm ashamed of what I said last night , she murmured . 
I've got , Oh , such a nasty disposition , Susie . 
But what you said wasn't it so ? Ruth turned away her head . 
Susan drew a long sigh , so quietly that Ruth could not have heard . 
You understand , Ruth said gently , everybody feels sorry for you and Susan frowned stormily , They'd better feel sorry for themselves . 
Ruth's eyes filled with tears . 
Ruth gave a low scream and shuddered . 
Susan looked round defiantly , as if she expected a bolt from the blue to come hurtling through the open window . 
But the sky remained serene , and the quiet , scented breeze continued to play with the lace curtains , and the birds on the balcony did not suspend their chattering courtship . 
This lack of immediate effect from her declaration of war upon man and God was encouraging . 
The last of the crushed , cowed feeling Ruth had inspired the night before disappeared . 
With a soul haughtily plumed and looking defiance from the violet gray eyes , Susan left her cousin and betook herself down to breakfast . 
In common with most children , she had always dreamed of a mysterious fate for herself , different from the commonplace routine around her . 
No doubt it was the difference from the common lot that had attracted Sam to her and this difference would make their love wholly unlike the commonplace Sutherland wooing and wedding . 
Yes , hers had been a mysterious fate , and would continue to be . 
Yet it was an amazingly different Susan Lenox , too . 
The first crisis had come she had been put to the test and she had not collapsed in weakness but had stood erect in strength . 
After breakfast she went down Main Street and at Crooked Creek Avenue took the turning for the cemetery . 
She sought the Warham plot , on the western slope near the quiet brook . 
There was a clump of cedars at each corner of the plot near the largest of them were three little graves the three dead children of George and Fanny . 
Only a little older than her cousin Ruth was now Ruth who often seemed to her , and to everybody , younger than herself . 
And she was good I know she was good ! thought Susan . 
He was bad , and the people who took his part against her were bad . 
But she was good ! She started as Sam's voice , gay and light , sounded directly behind her . 
What are you doing in a graveyard ? cried he . 
How did you find me ? she asked , paling and flushing and paling again . 
I've been following you ever since you left home . 
He might have added that he did not try to overtake her until they were where people would be least likely to see . 
Whose graves are those ? he went on , cutting across a plot and stepping on several graves to join her . 
She was gazing at her mothers simple headstone . 
His glance followed hers , he read . 
Oh beg pardon , he said confusedly . 
She turned her serious gaze from the headstone to his face , which her young imagination transfigured . 
You know about her ? she asked . 
I I I've heard , he confessed . 
But Susie , it doesn't amount to anything . 
It happened a long time ago and everybody's forgotten and His stammering falsehoods died away before her steady look . 
How did you find out ? Someone just told me , replied she . 
And they said you'd never respect or marry a girl who had no father . 
No don't deny please ! I didn't believe it not after what we had said to each other . 
Sam , red and shifting uneasily , could not even keep his downcast eyes upon the same spot of ground . 
You see , she went on , sweet and grave , they don't understand what love means do they ? I guess not , muttered he , completely unnerved . 
Why , how seriously the girl had taken him and his words such a few words and not at all definite ! No , he decided , it was the kiss . 
He had heard of girls so innocent that they thought a kiss meant the same as being married . 
He got himself together as well as he could and looked at her . 
But , Susie , he said , you're too young for anything definite and I'm not halfway through college . 
I understand , said she . 
But you need not be afraid I'll change . 
She was so sweet , so magnetic , so compelling that in spite of the frowns of prudence he seized her hand . 
At her touch he flung prudence to the winds . 
I love you , he cried and putting his arm around her , he tried to kiss her . 
She gently but strongly repulsed him . 
Why not , dear ? he pleaded . 
You love me don't you ? Yes , she replied , her honest eyes shining upon his . 
But we must wait until we're married . 
I don't care so much for the others , but I'd not want Uncle George to feel I had disgraced him . 
Why , there's no harm in a kiss , pleaded he . 
Kissing you is different , she replied . 
He understood her innocence that frankly assumed marriage where a sophisticated girl would , in the guilt of designing thoughts , have shrunk in shame from however vaguely suggesting such a thing . 
He realized to the full his peril . 
I'm a damn fool , he said to himself , to hang about her . 
As he looked at her he saw beauty beyond any he had ever seen elsewhere and a sweetness and honesty that made him ashamed before her . 
No , I couldn't harm her , he told himself . 
I'm not such a dog as that . 
But there's no harm in loving her and kissing her and making her as happy as it's right to be . 
Don't be mean , Susan , he begged , tears in his eyes . 
If you love me , you'll let me kiss you . 
And she yielded , and the shock of the kiss set both to trembling . 
It appealed to his vanity , it heightened his own agitations to see how pale she had grown and how her rounded bosom rose and fell in the wild tumult of her emotions . 
Oh , I can't do without seeing you , she cried . 
And Aunt Fanny has forbidden me . 
I thought so ! exclaimed he . 
I did what I could last night to throw them off the track . 
If Ruth had only known what I was thinking about all the time . 
Where were you ? Upstairs on the balcony . 
I felt it , he declared . 
And when she sang love songs I could hardly keep from rushing up to you . 
Susie , we must see each other . 
I can come here , almost any day . 
But people'd soon find out and they'd say all sorts of things . 
And your uncle and aunt would hear . 
There was no disputing anything so obvious . 
Couldn't you come down tonight , after the others are in bed and the house is quiet ? he suggested . 
She hesitated before the deception , though she felt that her family had forfeited the right to control her . 
But love , being the supreme necessity , conquered . 
For a few minutes , she conceded . 
She had been absorbed but his eyes , kept alert by his conventional soul , had seen several people at a distance observing without seeming to do so . 
We must separate , he now said . 
You see , Susie , we mustn't be gossiped about . 
You know how determined they are to keep us apart . 
Yes yes , she eagerly agreed . 
Will you go first , or shall I ? You go the way you came . 
I'll jump the brook down where it's narrow and cut across and into our place by the back way . 
What time tonight ? Arthur's coming , reflected Susie aloud . 
Ruth'll not let him stay late . 
She'll be sleepy and will go straight to bed . 
If I'm not on the front veranda no , the side veranda by eleven , you'll know something has prevented . 
But you'll surely come ? I'll come . 
And it both thrilled and alarmed him to see how much in earnest she was . 
But he looked love into her loving eyes and went away , too intoxicated to care whither this adventure was leading him . 
At dinner she felt she was no longer a part of this family . 
She now acutely felt her aunt's , her cousin's , dislike and her uncle's gentleness was not less galling . 
The young mobility of her features suggested the easy swaying of the baby sapling in the gentlest breeze . 
Singularly at variance with it was this expression of tenacity . 
Such an expression in the face of the young infallibly forecasts an agitated and agitating life . 
Those who have this temperament of strength encased in gentleness are invariably misunderstood . 
When they assert themselves , though they are in the particular instance wholly right , they are regarded as wholly and outrageously wrong . 
Life deals hardly with them , punishes them for the mistaken notion of themselves they have through forbearance and gentleness of heart permitted an unobservant world to form . 
Susan spent the afternoon on the balcony before her window , reading and sewing or , rather , dreaming over first a book , then a dress . 
When she entered the dining room at supper time the others were already seated . 
She saw instantly that something had occurred something ominous for her . 
Mrs. Warham gave her a penetrating , severe look and lowered her eyes Ruth was gazing sullenly at her plate . 
Warham's glance was stern and reproachful . 
She took her place opposite Ruth , and the meal was eaten in silence . 
Ruth left the table first . 
Next Mrs. Warham rose and saying , Susan , when you've finished , I wish to see you in the sitting room upstairs , swept in solemn dignity from the room . 
Susan rose at once to follow . 
As she was passing her uncle he put out his hand and detained her . 
I hope it was only a foolish girl's piece of nonsense , said he with an attempt at his wonted kindliness . 
And I know it won't occur again . 
What is it , Uncle George ? cried Susan , amazed . 
What have I done ? Warham looked sternly grieved . 
Brownie , he reproached , you mustn't deceive . 
She found her aunt seated stiffly in the living room , her hands folded upon her stomach . 
So gradual had been the crucial middle life change in Fanny that no one had noted it . 
What is it , aunt ? she said , feeling as if she were before a stranger and an enemy . 
The whole town is talking about your disgraceful doings this morning , Ruth's mother replied in a hard voice . 
The color leaped in Susan's cheeks . 
Yesterday I forbade you to see Sam Wright again . 
I did not say I would not see him again , replied Susan . 
I thought you were an honest , obedient girl , cried Fanny , the high shrill notes in her voice rasping upon the sensitive , the now morbidly sensitive , Susan . 
Instead you slip away from the house and meet a young man and permit him to take liberties with you . 
He saw me on the way and followed . 
I did let him kiss me once . 
But I had the right to . 
You have disgraced yourself and us all . 
We are going to be married . 
I don't want to hear such foolish talk ! cried Mrs. Warham violently . 
If you had any sense , you'd know better . 
He and I do not feel as you do about my mother , said the girl with quiet dignity . 
Mrs. Warham shivered before this fling . 
Who told you ? she demanded . 
It doesn't matter I know . 
Well , miss , since you know , then I can tell you that your uncle and I realize you're going the way your mother went . 
And the whole town thinks you've gone already . 
They're all saying , I told you so ! I told you so ! Like her mother ! Mrs. Warham was weeping hysterical tears of fury . 
The whole town ! And it'll reflect on my Ruth . 
Oh , you miserable girl ! Whatever possessed me to take pity on you ! Susan's hands clutched until the nails sunk into the palms . 
She shut her teeth together , turned to fly . 
Wait ! commanded Mrs. Warham . 
Wait , I tell you ! Susan halted in the doorway , but did not turn . 
Your uncle and I have talked it over . 
Yes , he has wakened up at last . 
There's one thing he isn't soft about You've turned him against me ! cried the girl despairingly . 
You mean you have turned him against you , retorted her aunt . 
Anyhow , you can't wheedle him this time . 
He's as bent as I am . 
And you must promise us that you won't see Sam again . 
Then Susan said , I can't . 
Then we'll send you away to your Uncle Zeke's . 
It's quiet out there and you'll have a chance to think things over . 
And I reckon he'll watch you . 
He's never forgiven your mother . 
Now , will you promise ? No , said Susan calmly . 
You have wicked thoughts about my mother , and you are being wicked to me you and Ruth . 
Oh , I understand ! Don't you dare stand there and lie that way ! raved Mrs. Warham . 
I'll give you tonight to think about it . 
If you don't promise , you leave this house . 
Your uncle has been weak where you were concerned , but this caper of yours has brought him to his senses . 
We'll not have you a loose character and your cousin's life spoiled by it . 
First thing we know , no respectable man'll marry her , either . 
From between the girl's shut teeth issued a cry . 
She darted across the hall , locked herself in her room . 
CHAPTER VI SAM did not wait until Arthur Sinclair left , but , all ardor and impatience , stole in at the Warhams' front gate at ten o'clock . 
He was not twenty feet away , was seeing and hearing , when Arthur kissed Ruth good night . 
Then followed three quarters of an hour of increasing tension . 
The tension would have been even greater had he seen the young lady going leisurely about her preparations for bed . 
For Ruth was of the orderly , precise women who are created to foster the virtue of patience in those about them . 
It took her nearly as long to dress for bed as for a party . 
She did her hair up in curl papers with the utmost care she washed and rinsed and greased her face and neck and gave them a thorough massage . 
She shook out and carefully hung or folded or put to air each separate garment . 
She examined her silk stockings for holes , found one , darned it with a neatness rivaling that of a stoppeur . 
She removed from her dressing table and put away in drawers everything that was out of place . 
She closed each drawer tightly , closed and locked the closets , looked under the bed , turned off the lights over the dressing table . 
She sat on the bed , reflected on what she had done , to assure herself that nothing had been omitted . 
After a slow look around she drew off her bedroom slippers , set them carefully side by side near the head of the bed . 
She folded her nightgown neatly about her legs , thrust them down into the bed . 
Again she looked slowly , searchingly , about the room to make absolutely sure she had forgotten nothing , had put everything in perfect order . 
Once in bed , she hated to get out yet if she should recall any omission , however slight , she would be unable to sleep until she had corrected it . 
Finally , sure as fallible humanity can be , she turned out the last light , lay down went instantly to sleep . 
He made a detour on the lawn , so as to keep out of view both from house and street , came up to the veranda , called to her softly . 
Can you get over the rail ? asked she in the same low tone . 
Let's go back to the summer house , urged he . 
No. Come up here , she insisted . 
The windows above are open . 
He climbed the rail noiselessly and made an impetuous move for her hand . 
No , Sam dear , she said . 
But I've an instinct against it and we mustn't . 
She spoke so gently that he persisted and pleaded . 
It was some time before he realized how much firmness there was under her gentleness . 
She was so afraid of making him cross yet he also saw that she would withstand at any cost . 
He placed himself beside her on the wicker lounge , sitting close , his cheek almost against hers , that they might hear each other without speaking above a whisper . 
After one of those silences which are the peculiar delight of lovers , she drew a long breath and said I've got to go away , Sam . 
I shan't see you again for a long time . 
They heard about this morning ? They're sending you away ? No I'm going . 
They feel that I'm a disgrace and a drag . 
But you've got to stay ! protested Sam . 
In wild alarm he suspected she was preparing to make him elope with her and he did not know to what length of folly his infatuation might whirl him . 
You've no place to go , he urged . 
I'll find a place , said she . 
You mustn't you mustn't , Susie ! Why , you're only seventeen and have no experience . 
I'll get experience , said she . 
Nothing could be so bad as staying here . 
Can't you see that ? He could not . 
But he vaguely realized what delicacy of feeling lay behind her statement of her position and he did not dare express his real opinion . 
He returned to the main point . 
You've simply got to put up with it for the present , Susie , he insisted . 
But , then , of course , you're not serious . 
You'll think it over , and see I'm right , dear . 
Sh h ! Sam looked apprehensively around . 
Both breathed softly and listened with straining ears . 
His exclamation had not been loud , but the silence was profound . 
I guess nobody heard , he finally whispered . 
You mustn't go , Susie . 
He caught her hand and held it . 
I love you , and I forbid it . 
I must go , dear , answered she . 
I've decided to take the midnight boat for Cincinnati . 
In the half darkness he gazed in stupefaction at her this girl of only seventeen calmly resolving upon and planning an adventure so daring , so impossible . 
But his father had undermined his courage and independence also his year in the East had given him somewhat different ideas of women . 
He was gathering himself for pouring out a fresh protest when it flashed through his mind Why not ? She would go to Cincinnati . 
He could follow in a few days or a week and then Well , at least they would be free and could have many happy days together . 
Why , how could you get to Cincinnati ? he said . 
I've a twenty dollar gold piece Uncle gave me as a keepsake . 
And I've got seventeen dollars in other money , and several dollars in change , explained she . 
I've got two hundred and forty three dollars and fifty cents in the bank , but I can't get that not now . 
They'll send it to me when I find a place and am settled and let them know . 
You can't do it , Susie ! You can't and you mustn't . 
If you knew what they said to me ! Oh , I couldn't stay , Sam . 
I've got some of my clothes a little bundle behind the front door . 
As soon as I'm settled I'll let you know . 
A silence , then he , hesitatingly , Don't you do you hadn't I better go with you ? She thrilled at this generosity , this new proof of love . 
But she said No , I wouldn't let you do that . 
And I want them to know it's all my own doing . 
You're right , Susie , said the young man , relieved and emphatic . 
If I went with you , it'd only get both of us into deeper trouble . 
Again silence , with Sam feeling a kind of awe as he studied the resolute , mysterious profile of the girl , which he could now see clearly . 
At last he said And after you get there , Susie what will you do ? Find a boarding house , and then look for a place . 
What kind of a place ? In a store or making dresses or any kind of sewing . 
Or I could do housework . 
The sex impulse is prolific of generous impulses . 
He , sitting so close to her and breathing in through his skin the emanations of her young magnetism , was moved to the depths by the picture her words conjured . 
As he pictured it his heart impulsively expanded . 
It was at his lips to offer to marry her . 
But his real self and one's real self is vastly different from one's impulses his real self forbade the words passage . 
Not even the sex impulse , intoxicating him as it then was , could dethrone snobbish calculation . 
He was young so while he did not speak , he felt ashamed of himself for not speaking . 
He felt that she must be expecting him to speak , that she had the right to expect it . 
He drew a little away from her , and kept silent . 
The time will soon pass , said she absently . 
The time ? Then you intend to come back ? I mean the time until you're through college and we can be together . 
She spoke as one speaks of a dream as to which one has never a doubt but that it will come true . 
And he hastily drew further away . 
She felt the change , for she was of those who are born sensitive . 
But she was far too young and inexperienced to have learned to interpret aright the subtle warning of the nerves . 
You are displeased with me ? she asked timidly . 
No Oh , no , Susie , he stammered . 
Do put off going for a day or two . 
There's no need of hurrying . 
But she felt that by disobeying her aunt and coming down to see him she had forfeited the right to shelter under that roof . 
I can't go back , said she . 
She would not tell him the reason it would make him feel as if he were to blame . 
When I get a place in Cincinnati , she went on , I'll write to you . 
Not here , he objected . 
That wouldn't do at all . 
No , send me a line to the Gibson House in Cincinnati , giving me your address . 
The Gibson House , she repeated . 
I'll not forget that name . 
Send it as soon as you get a place . 
I may be in Cincinnati soon . 
But this is all nonsense . 
Now that I've got to go , I'm glad . 
And he realized that she was not talking to give herself courage , that her words were literally true . 
This made him admire her , and fear her , too . 
There must be something wild and unwomanly in her nature . 
I guess she inherits it from her mother and perhaps her father , whoever he was . 
Probably she was simply doing a little early what she'd have been sure to do sooner or later , no matter what had happened . 
On the whole , it was just as well that she was going . 
I can take her on East in the fall . 
As soon as she has a little knowledge of the world she'll not expect me to marry her . 
She can get something to do . 
And now he felt in conceit with himself again felt that he was going to be a good , generous friend to her . 
Perhaps you'll be better off once you get started , said he . 
I don't see how I could be worse off . 
What is there here for me ? He wondered at the good sense of this from a mere child . 
Yes , she was right . 
There could be nothing in it for her in Sutherland . 
He was filled with pity for her . 
Poor child ! What a shame ! There must be something wrong with a world that permitted such iniquities . 
You must go , she said . 
Sometimes the boat comes as early as half past . 
As he faced her the generous impulse surged again . 
He caught her in his arms , she not resisting . 
He kissed her again and again , murmuring disconnected words of endearment and fighting back the offer to marry her . 
I mustn't ! I mustn't ! he said to himself . 
What'd become of us ? If his passions had been as virgin , as inexperienced , as hers , no power could have held him from going with her and marrying her . 
But experience had taught him the abysmal difference between before and after and he found strength to be sensible , even in the height of his passionate longing for her . 
She clasped her arms about his neck . 
Oh , my dear love ! she murmured . 
I'd do anything for you . 
I feel that you love me as I love you . 
And he pressed his lips to hers . 
An instant and she drew away , shaking and panting . 
He tried to clasp her again , but she would not have it . 
I can't stand it ! he murmured . 
I must go with you I must ! No ! she replied . 
It wouldn't do unless we were really married . 
Wistfully , And we can't be that yet can we ? There isn't any way ? His passion cooled instantly . 
There isn't any way , he said regretfully . 
I'd not dare tell my father . 
Yes , we must wait till you're of age , and have your education , and are free . 
Then She drew a long breath , looked at him with a brave smile . 
The large moon was shining upon them . 
We'll think of that , and not let ourselves be unhappy won't we ? Yes , he said . 
I forgot for the minute . 
She put up her lips . 
He kissed her , but without passion now . 
You might go with me as far as the wharf , she suggested . 
No someone might see and that would ruin everything . 
I'd like to I'd It wouldn't do , she interrupted . 
I wouldn't let you come . 
With sudden agitation she kissed him he felt that her lips were cold . 
He pressed her hands they , too , were cold . 
Good by , my darling , he murmured , vaulted lightly over the rail and disappeared in the deep shadows of the shrubbery . 
When he was clear of the grounds he paused to light a cigarette . 
His hand was shaking so that the match almost dropped from his fingers . 
I've been making a damn fool of myself , he said half aloud . 
A double damn fool ! I've got to stop that talk about marrying , somehow or keep away from her . 
But I can't keep away . 
I've simply got to stop this marrying talk . 
It gets worse and worse . 
Her calmness deceived her into thinking herself perfectly sane and sober , perfectly aware of what she was about . 
She had left her hat and her bundle behind the door . 
She put on the hat in the darkness of the hall with steady fingers , took up the well filled shawl strap and went forth , closing the door behind her . 
In the morning they would find the door unlocked but that would not cause much talk , as Sutherland people were all rather careless about locking up . 
They would not knock at the door of her room until noon , perhaps . 
Her bundle was not light , but she hardly felt it as she moved swiftly through the deserted , moonlit streets toward the river . 
The wharf boat for the Cincinnati and Louisville mail steamers was anchored at the foot of Pine Street . 
On the levee before it were piled the boxes , bags , cases , crates , barrels to be loaded upon the up boat . 
The sound echoed musically back and forth between the Kentucky and the Indiana bluffs , died lingeringly away . 
Again the whistle boomed , again the dark forest clad steeps sent the echoes to and fro across the broad silver river . 
And now she could see the steamer , at the bend a dark mass picked out with brilliant dots of light the big funnels , the two thick pennants of black smoke . 
And she could hear the faint pleasant stroke of the paddles of the big side wheels upon the water . 
At the wharf boat there had not been a sign of life . 
But with the dying away of the second whistle lights the lights of lanterns appeared on the levee close to the water's edge and on the wharf boat itself . 
And , behind her , the doors of the Sutherland Hotel opened and its office lit up , in preparation for any chance arrivals . 
She turned abruptly out of the beaten path down the gravel levee , made for the lower and darker end of the wharf boat . 
There would be Sutherland people going up the river . 
But they would be more than prompt everyone came early to boats and trains to begin the sweet draught of the excitement of journeying . 
So she would wait in the darkness and go aboard when the steamer was about to draw in its planks . 
Susan , balancing herself with her bundle , went up to the beam , sat down upon a low stanchion in the darkness where she could see the river . 
Louder and louder grew the regular musical beat of engine and paddle . 
The General Lytle now seemed a blaze of lights from lower deck , from saloon deck , from pilot house deck , and forward and astern . 
Along the rail of the middle or saloon deck were seated a few passengers who had not yet gone to bed . 
Susan watched all , saw all , with quick beating heart and quivering interest . 
It was the first time that her life had been visited by the fascinating sense of event , real event . 
The tall , proud , impetuous child woman , standing in the semi darkness beside her bundle , was about to cast her stake upon the table in a bold game with Destiny . 
Her eyes shone with the wonderful expression that is seen only when courage gazes into the bright face of danger . 
The steamer touched the edge of the wharf boat with gentle care the wharf boat swayed and groaned . 
It was a scene of animation , of excitement , savage , grotesque , fascinating . 
Get out of the way , lady ! yelled the mate , eagerly seizing upon a new text for his denunciations . 
The steamer was all white without except the black metal work . 
At the forward end near the main entrance was the office . 
Susan , peering in from the darkness of the deck , saw that the way was clear . 
The Sutherland passengers had been accommodated . 
She entered , put her bundle down , faced the clerk behind the desk . 
Why , howdy , Miss Lenox , said he genially , beginning to twist his narrow , carefully attended blond mustache . 
Any of the folks with you ? She remembered his face but not his name . 
She remembered him as one of the river characters regarded as outcast by the Christian respectability of Sutherland . 
But she who could not but be polite to everybody smiled pleasantly , though she did not like his expression as he looked at her . 
No , I'm alone , said she . 
Oh your friends are going to meet you at the wharf in the morning , said he , content with his own explanation . 
Just sign here , please . 
And , as she wrote , he went on I've got one room left . 
Ain't that lucky ? It's a nice one , too . 
Everybody at home well ? I ain't been in Sutherland for nigh ten years . 
Every week or so I think I will , and then somehow I don't . 
Here's your key number right hand side , well down toward the far end , yonder . 
Thank you , said Susan . 
She turned away with the key which was thrust through one end of a stick about a foot long , to make it too bulky for absent minded passengers to pocket . 
She took up her bundle , walked down the long saloon with its gilt decorations , its crystal chandeliers , its double array of small doors , each numbered . 
The clerk looked after her , admiration of the fine curve of her shoulders , back , and hips written plain upon his insignificant features . 
To think of her was to think of the circumstances surrounding her coming into the world and to think of those circumstances was to think of immorality . 
She unlocked it , entered the small clean stateroom and deposited her bundle on the floor . 
With just a glance at her quarters she hurried to the opposite door the one giving upon the promenade . 
She opened it , stepped out , crossed the deserted deck and stood at the rail . 
The General Lytle was drawing slowly away from the wharf boat . 
That farthest cupola to the left it was the Number Two engine house , and the third place from it was her uncle's house . 
Slowly the steamer , now in mid stream , drew away from the town . 
The sobs choked up into her throat and the tears rained from her eyes . 
They all pitied and looked down on her there still , it had been home the only home she ever had known or ever would know . 
And until these last few frightful days , how happy she had been there ! For the first time she felt desolate , weak , afraid . 
However , human character is a tangle of inconsistencies , as disorderly and inchoate as the tangible and visible parts of nature . 
Susan felt weak , but not the kind of weakness that skulks . 
And there lay the difference , the abysmal difference , between courage and cowardice . 
Courage has full as much fear as cowardice , often more but it has a something else that cowardice has not . 
It trembles and shivers but goes forward . 
Wiping her eyes she went back to her own cabin . 
She had neglected closing its other door , the one from the saloon . 
The clerk was standing smirking in the doorway . 
You must be going away for quite some time , said he . 
And he fixed upon her as greedy and impudent eyes as ever looked from a common face . 
It was his battle glance . 
It makes me a little homesick to see the old town disappear , hastily explained Susan , recovering herself . 
The instant anyone was watching , her emotions always hid . 
Wouldn't you like to sit out on deck a while ? pursued the clerk , bringing up a winning smile to reinforce the fetching stare . 
The idea was attractive , for she did not feel like sleep . 
It would be fine to sit out in the open , watch the moon and the stars , the mysterious banks gliding swiftly by , and new vistas always widening out ahead . 
But not with this puny , sandy little river character , not with anybody that night . 
I think I'll go to bed . 
She had hesitated and that was enough to give him encouragement . 
Now , do come , he urged . 
You don't know how nice it is . 
And they say I'm mighty good company . 
Susan nodded a pleasant dismissal . 
Can't I help you in some way ? Wouldn't you like me to get you something ? No nothing . 
Going to visit in Cincinnati ? I know the town from A to Izzard . 
It's a lot of fun over the Rhine . 
I've had mighty good times there the kind a pretty , lively girl like you would take to . 
When do we get to Cincinnati ? About eight maybe half past seven . 
Depends on the landings we have to make , and the freight . 
Then I'll not have much time for sleep , said Susan . 
And no more realizing the coldness of her manner than the reason for his hanging about , she faced him , hand on the door to close it . 
You ain't a bit friendly , wheedled he . 
I'm sorry you think so . 
Good night and thank you . 
And he could not but withdraw his form from the door . 
She closed it and forgot him . 
She decided it would be unwise regularly to undress the boat might catch fire or blow up or something . 
She took off skirt , hat and ties , loosened her waist , and lay upon the lower of the two plain , hard little berths . 
The throb of the engines , the beat of the huge paddles , made the whole boat tremble and shiver . 
Faintly up from below came the sound of quarrels over crap shooting , of banjos and singing from the roustabouts amusing themselves between landings . 
She thought she would not be able to sleep in these novel and exciting surroundings . 
She had hardly composed herself before she lost consciousness , to sleep on and on dreamlessly , without motion . 
CHAPTER VII SHE was awakened by a crash so uproarious that she sat bolt upright before she had her eyes open . 
Her head struck stunningly against the bottom of the upper berth . 
This further confused her thoughts . 
She leaped from the bed , caught up her slippers , reached for her opened up bundle . 
The crash was still billowing through the boat she now recognized it as a great gong sounding for breakfast . 
She sat down on the bed and rubbed her head and laughed merrily . 
I am a greenhorn ! she said . 
Another minute and I'd have had the whole boat laughing at me . 
She felt rested and hungry ravenously hungry . 
She tucked in her blouse , washed as well as she could in the tiny bowl on the little washstand . 
Then before the cloudy watermarked mirror she arranged her scarcely mussed hair . 
But Susan's young eyes were not critical . 
To her it all seemed fine , with the rich flavor of adventure . 
A more experienced traveler might have been filled with gloomy foreboding by the quality of the odor from the cooking . 
She found it delightful and sympathized with the unrestrained eagerness of the homely country faces about her , with the children beating their spoons on their empty plates . 
The colored waiters presently began to stream in , each wearing a soiled white jacket , each bearing aloft a huge tray on which were stacked filled dishes and steaming cups . 
Colored people have a keen instinct for class . 
One of the waiters happened to note her , advanced bowing and smiling with that good humored , unservile courtesy which is the peculiar possession of the Americanized colored race . 
He flourished her into a chair with a Good morning , miss . 
It's going to be a fine day . 
He drew toward her a can of syrup , a pitcher of cream , and a bowl of granulated sugar . 
Anything else ? said he , with a show of teeth white and sound . 
Her smile stimulated him to further courtesies . 
Some likes the yeggs biled . 
Shall I change 'em ? No. I like them this way . 
She was so hungry that the idea of taking away a certainty on the chance of getting something out of sight and not yet cooked did not attract her . 
Perhaps a little better piece of steak ? No this looks fine . 
Her enthusiasm was not mere politeness . 
I clean forgot your hot biscuits . 
When he came back with a heaping plate of hot biscuits , Sally Lunn and cornbread , she was eating as heartily as any of her neighbors . 
The men at the table were eating with their knives each had one protecting forearm and hand cast round his arc of small dishes as if to ward off probable attempt at seizure . 
And they swallowed as if the boat were afire . 
The women ate more daintily , as became members of the finer sex on public exhibition . 
The children mussed and gormed themselves , their dishes , the tablecloth . 
She ate everything , and regretted that lack of capacity made it impossible for her to yield to the entreaties of her waiter that she have a little more . 
She rose , went into the nearest passageway between saloon and promenade , stealthily took a ten cent piece from her pocketbook . 
She called her waiter and gave it to him . 
She was blushing deeply , frightened lest this the first tip she had ever given or seen given be misunderstood and refused . 
I'm so much obliged , she said . 
The waiter bowed like a prince , always with his simple , friendly smile the tip disappeared under his apron . 
Nobody could help being nice to you , lady . 
She thanked him again and went to the promenade . 
It seemed to her that they had almost arrived . 
Along shore stretched a continuous line of houses pretty houses with gardens . 
She knew they must be the parlor and dining and sleeping cars she had read about . 
The river , the shores , grew more and more crowded . 
Susan's eyes darted from one new object to another and eagerly though she looked she felt she was missing more than she saw . 
Why , Susan Lenox ! exclaimed a voice almost in her ear . 
She closed her teeth upon a cry suddenly she was back from wonderland to herself . 
She turned to face dumpy , dressy Mrs. Waterbury and her husband with the glossy kinky ringlets and the long wavy mustache . 
How do you do ? she stammered . 
We didn't know you were aboard , said Mrs. Waterbury , a silly , duck legged woman looking proudly uncomfortable in her bead trimmed black silk . 
Yes I'm I'm here , confessed Susan . 
Going to the city to visit ? Yes , said Susan . 
She hesitated , then repeated , Yes . 
What elegant breakfasts they do serve on these boats ! I suppose your friends'll meet you . 
But Mort and I'll look after you till they come . 
Oh , it isn't necessary , protested Susan . 
The steamer was passing under the bridge . 
There were cities on both shores huge masses of dingy brick , streets filled with motion of every kind always motion , incessant motion , and change . 
We're about there , aren't we ? she asked . 
The wharf's up beyond the second bridge the Covington Bridge , explained Waterbury with the air of the old experienced globe trotter . 
There's a third one , further up , but you can't see it for the smoke . 
And he went on and on , volubly airing his intimate knowledge of the great city which he visited once a year for two or three days to buy goods . 
He ended with a scornful , My , but Cincinnati's a dirty place ! Dirty it might be , but Susan loved it , dirt and all . 
She edged away from the Waterburys , hid in her stateroom watching the panorama through the curtained glass of her promenade deck door . 
She was completely carried away . 
The city ! So , this was the city ! And her dreams of travel , of new sights , new faces , were beginning to come true . 
She forgot herself , forgot what she had left behind , forgot what she was to face . 
All her power of thought and feeling was used up in absorbing these unfolding wonders . 
And from the whole tremendous scene rose an enormous clamor , the stentorian voice of the city . 
That voice is discordant and terrifying to many . 
To Susan , on that day , it was the most splendid burst of music . 
Awake awake ! it cried . 
Awake , and live ! She opened her door that she might hear it better rattle and rumble and roar , shriek of whistle , clang of bell . 
And the people ! Thousands on thousands hurrying hither and yon , like bees in a hive . 
Awake awake , and live ! The noises from the saloon reminded her that the journey was ended , that she must leave the boat . 
And she did not know where to go she and her bundle . 
She waited until she saw the Waterburys , along with the other passengers , moving up the levee . 
Then she issued forth by the promenade deck door so that she would not pass the office . 
But at the head of the companionway , in the forward part of the deck , there the clerk stood , looking even pettier and more offensive by daylight . 
She thought to slip by him . 
But he stopped stroking his mustache and called out to her , Haven't your friends come ? She frowned , angry in her nervousness . 
I shall get on very well , she said curtly . 
Then she repented , smiled politely , added , Thank you . 
I'll put you in a carriage , he offered , hastening down the stairs to join her . 
She did not know what to say or do . 
She walked silently beside him , he carrying her bundle . 
They crossed the wharf boat . 
A line of dilapidated looking carriages was drawn up near the end of the gangplank . 
The sight of them , the remembrance of what she had heard of the expensiveness of city carriages , nerved her to desperation . 
Give me my things , please , she said . 
Where do you want to go ? The question took her breath away . 
With a quickness that amazed her , her lips uttered , The Gibson House . 
Oh ! That's a right smart piece . 
But you can take a car . 
I'll walk with you to the car . 
There's a line a couple of squares up that goes almost by the door . 
You know it isn't far from Fourth Street . 
She was now in a flutter of terror . 
She went stumbling along beside him , not hearing a word of his voluble and flirtatious talk . 
They were in the midst of the mad rush and confusion . 
The noises , no longer mingled but individual , smote savagely upon her ears , startling her , making her look dazedly round as if expecting death to swoop upon her . 
At the corner of Fourth Street the clerk halted . 
He was clear out of humor with her , so dumb , so unappreciative . 
There'll be a car along soon , said he sourly . 
You needn't wait , said she timidly . 
And he lifted his hat tipped it , rather for he would not have wasted a full lift upon such a female . 
She gave a gasp of relief when he departed then a gasp of terror for upon the opposite corner stood the Waterburys . 
The globe trotter and his wife were so dazed by the city that they did not see her , though in their helpless glancing round they looked straight at her . 
She hastily ran into a drug store on the corner . 
A young man in shirt sleeves held up by pink garters , and with oily black hair carefully parted and plastered , put down a pestle and mortar and came forward . 
He had kind brown eyes , but there was something wrong with the lower part of his face . 
Susan did not dare look to see what it was , lest he should think her unfeeling . 
He was behind the counter . 
Susan saw the soda fountain . 
As if by inspiration , she said , Some chocolate soda , please . 
Ice cream ? asked the young man in a peculiar voice , like that of one who has a harelip . 
And then she saw the sign , Ice Cream , ten cents , and wished she hadn't . 
Yes , indeed , assented Susan . 
I wonder where I could leave my bundle for a while . 
I'm a stranger and I want to look for a boarding house . 
You might leave it here with me , said the young man . 
That's about our biggest line of trade that and postage stamps and telephone and the directory . 
Susan did not see why she did not like the sound , either , for the young man's deformity of lower jaw deformed his laughter as well as his speech . 
However , she smiled politely and ate and drank her soda slowly . 
I'll be glad to take care of your bundle , the young man said presently . 
Ever been here before ? No , said Susan . 
That is , not since I was about four years old . 
I was four , said the young man , when a horse stepped on my mouth in the street . 
My , how dreadful ! exclaimed Susan . 
You can see some of the scar yet , the young man assured her , and he pointed to his curiously sunken mouth . 
The doctors said it was the most remarkable case of the kind on record , continued he proudly . 
That was what led me into the medical line . 
You don't seem to have your boarding house picked . 
I was going to look in the papers . 
That's dangerous especially for a young lady . 
Some of them boarding houses well , they're no better'n they ought to be . 
I don't suppose you know of any ? My aunt keeps one . 
And she's got a vacancy , it being summer . 
I'm afraid it'd be too expensive for me , said Susan , to feel her way . 
The young man was much flattered . 
But he said , Oh , it ain't so toppy . 
I think you could make a deal with her for five per . 
Five a week room and board . 
I might stand that , said Susan reflectively . 
Then , deciding for complete confidence , I'm looking for work , too . 
What line ? Oh , I never tried anything . 
I thought maybe dressmaking or millinery . 
Mighty poor season for jobs . 
The times are bad , anyhow . 
He was looking at her with kindly curiosity . 
If I was you , I'd go back home and wait . 
I can't do that , she said . 
The young man thought awhile , then said If you should go to my aunt's , you can say Mr. Ellison sent you . 
No , that ain't me . 
You see , a respectable boarding house asks for references . 
Susan colored deeply and her gaze slowly sank . 
I didn't know that , she murmured . 
Aunt Kate ain't so particular leastways , not in summer when things is slow . 
And I know you're quiet . 
He explained that Susan was to walk up two squares and take the car going west the conductor would let her off at the right place . 
You'd better leave your things here , said Mr. Wylie , holding up the card so that they could admire his penmanship together . 
You may not hit it off with Aunt Kate . 
Don't think you've got to stay there just because of me . 
I'm sure I'll like it , Susan declared confidently . 
Her spirits were high she felt that she was in a strong run of luck . 
Wylie lifted her package over the counter and went to the door with her to point out the direction . 
The next up is Fifth . 
The next wide one is Sixth and you can read it on the lamp post , too . 
Isn't that convenient ! exclaimed Susan . 
What a lovely city this is ! There's worse , said Mr. Wylie , not to seem vain of his native town . 
They shook hands most friendly and she set out in the direction he had indicated . 
She was much upset by the many vehicles and the confusion , but she did her best to seem at ease and at home . 
She watched a girl walking ahead of her a shopgirl who seemed well dressed and stylish , especially about the hat and hair . 
Susan tried to walk like her . 
I suppose I look and act greener than I really am , thought she . 
But I'll keep my eyes open and catch on . 
If Susan had known , she might perhaps have stayed at home and submitted and , with crushed spirit , might have sunk under the sense of shame and degradation . 
But she did not know so Columbus before his sailors or Caesar at the Rubicon among his soldiers did not seem more tranquil than she really was . 
Wylie , who suspected in the direction of the truth , wondered at her . 
She's game , she is , he muttered again and again that morning . 
It was an open car with few passengers . 
She took the middle of the long seat nearest the rear platform and looked about her like one in a happy dream . 
On and on and yet on they went . 
With every square they passed more people , so it seemed to her , than there were in all Sutherland . 
And at each corner she looked up and down the cross streets , and there were more and ever more magnificent buildings , throngs upon throngs of people . 
Was there no end to it ? This was Sixth Street , still Sixth Street , as she saw at the corner lamp posts . 
And there were all these cross streets ! It was stupefying overwhelming incredible . 
She began to be nervous , they were going so far . 
She glanced anxiously at the conductor . 
He was watching her interestedly , understood her glance , answered it with a reassuring nod . 
He called out I'm looking out for you , miss . 
I've got you on my mind . 
She gave him a bright smile of relief . 
They were passing through a double row of what seemed to her stately residences , and there were few people on the sidewalks . 
The air , too , was clearer , though the walls were grimy and also the grass in the occasional tiny front yards . 
But the curtains at the windows looked clean and fresh , and so did the better class of people among those on the sidewalk . 
It delighted her to see so many well dressed women , wearing their clothes with an air which she told herself she must acquire . 
The house is right straight before you , said the conductor . 
The number's in the transom . 
She thanked him , descended , was on the sidewalk before Mrs. Wylie's . 
She looked at the house and her heart sank . 
She thought of the small sum in her purse it was most unlikely that such a house as this would harbor her . 
For here was a grand stone stairway ascending to a deep stone portico , and within it great doors , bigger than those of the Wright mansion , the palace of Sutherland . 
However , she recalled the humble appearance and mode of speech of her friend the drug clerk and plucked up the courage to ascend and to ring . 
A slattern , colored maid opened the door . 
At the first glance within , at the first whiff of the interior air , Susan felt more at ease . 
While Susan explained stammeringly what she had come for , Mrs. Wylie eyed her with increasing disfavor . 
When Susan had finished , she unlocked her lips for the first time to say The room's took . 
Oh ! cried Susan in dismay . 
The telephone rang in the back parlor . 
Mrs. Wylie excused herself to answer . 
After a few words she closed the doors between . 
She was gone fully five minutes to Susan it seemed an hour . 
She came back , saying I've been talking to my nephew . 
Well , I reckon you can have the room . 
It ain't my custom to take in ladies as young as you . 
But you seem to be all right . 
Your parents allowed you to come ? I haven't any , replied Susan . 
I'm here to find a place and support myself . 
Mrs. Wylie continued to eye her dubiously . 
Well , I have no wish to pry into your affairs . 
Mind your own business , that's my rule . 
She spoke with defiance , as if the contrary were being asserted by some invisible person who might appear and gain hearing and belief . 
She went on If Mr. Ellison wants it , why I suppose it's all right . 
But you can't stay out later'n ten o'clock . 
I shan't go out at all of nights , said Susan eagerly . 
You look quiet , said Mrs. Wylie , with the air of adding that appearances were rarely other than deceptive . 
Oh , I am quiet , declared Susan . 
It puzzled her , this recurrence of the suggestion of noisiness . 
I can't allow much company none in your room . 
There won't be any company . 
That is , a a young man from our town he may call once . 
But he'll be off for the East right away . 
Mrs. Wylie reflected on this , Susan the while standing uneasily , dreading lest decision would be against her . 
Finally Mrs. Wylie said Robert says you want the five dollar room . 
I'll show it to you . 
They ascended two flights through increasing shabbiness . 
On the third floor at the rear was a room a mere continuation of the narrow hall , partitioned off . 
The odor of the room , stale , damp , verging on moldy , seemed the fitting exhalation from such an assemblage of forbidding objects . 
It's a nice , comfortable room , said Mrs. Wylie aggressively . 
I couldn't afford to give it and two meals for five dollars except till the first of September . 
I'll be glad to stay , if you'll let me , said Susan . 
Mrs. Wylie's suspicion , so plain in those repellent eyes , took all the courage out of her . 
The great adventure seemed rapidly to be losing its charms . 
She could not think of herself as content or anything but sad and depressed in such surroundings as these . 
I left it at the drug store , explained Susan . 
Your trunk ? Susan started nervously at that explosive exclamation . 
I I haven't got a trunk only a few things in a shawl strap . 
Well , I never ! Mrs. Wylie tossed her head , clucked her tongue disgustedly against the roof of her mouth . 
But I suppose if Mr. Ellison says so , why you can stay . 
Thank you , said Susan humbly . 
I I think I'll go for my things . 
The custom is to pay in advance , said Mrs. Wylie sharply . 
Oh , yes of course , stammered Susan . 
She seated herself on the wooden chair and opened out her purse . 
She found the five among her few bills , extended it with trembling fingers toward Mrs. Wylie . 
At the same time she lifted her eyes . 
The woman's expression as she bored into the pocketbook terrified her . 
Thank you , said Mrs. Wylie , taking the bill as if she were conferring a favor upon Susan . 
I make everybody pay promptly . 
The first of the week or out they go ! I used to be easy and I came near going down . 
Oh , I shouldn't stay a minute if I couldn't pay , said the girl . 
I'm going to look for something right away . 
Well , I don't want to discourage you , but there's a great many out of work . 
Still , I suppose you'll be able to wheedle some man into giving you a job . 
But I warn you I'm very particular about morals . 
If I see any signs Mrs. Wylie did not finish her sentence . 
Any words would have been weaker than her look . 
Not at the poisonous hint as to how money could be got to keep on paying for that room , for the hint passed wide of Susan . 
I'm down like a thousand of brick on any woman that is at all loose with the men , continued the landlady . 
I never could understand how any woman could so far forget herself . 
And the woman whom the men had all her life been helping to their uttermost not to forget herself looked sharp suspicion and envy at Susan , the lovely . 
She was far from sure that in Cincinnati and by its Mrs. Wylies Presbyterian would be regarded as Christian . 
There's your kind of a church a few squares from here , was all Mrs. Wylie deigned to reply . 
Susan suspected a sneer at Presbyterianism in her accent . 
That'll be nice , she murmured . 
She was eager to escape . 
I'll go for my things . 
You can walk down and take the Fourth Street car , suggested her landlady . 
Then you can watch out and not miss the store . 
The conductors are very impudent and forgetful . 
Susan escaped from the house as speedily as her flying feet would take her down the two flights . 
In the street once more , her spirits rose . 
She went south to Fourth Street , decided to walk instead of taking a car . 
She now found herself in much more impressive surroundings than before , and realized that Sixth Street was really one of the minor streets . 
The further uptown she went , the more excited she became . 
And most of the people the crowds on crowds of people ! looked prosperous and cheerful and so delightfully citified ! She wondered why so many of the men stared at her . 
She assumed it must be something rural in her appearance though that ought to have set the women to staring , too . 
But she thought little about this , so absorbed was she in seeing all the new things . 
She walked slowly , pausing to inspect the shop windows the gorgeous dresses and hats and jewelry , the thousand costly things scattered in careless profusion . 
While she was still screwing her courage to this boldness , she espied the sign and hastened joyfully across the street . 
She and Wylie welcomed each other like old friends . 
He was delighted when he learned that she had taken the room . 
You won't mind Aunt Kate after a while , said he . 
She's sour and nosey , but she's honest and respectable and that's the main thing just now with you . 
And I think you'll get a job all right . 
Aunt Kate's got a lady friend that's head saleslady at Shillito's . 
Wylie was so kind and so hopeful that Susan felt already settled . 
As soon as customers came in , she took her parcel and went , Wylie saying , I'll drop round after supper and see how things are getting on . 
She took the Sixth Street car back , and felt like an old resident . 
She was critical of Sixth Street now , and of the women she had been admiring there less than two hours before critical of their manners and of their dress . 
The exterior of the boarding house no longer awed her . 
She was getting a point of view as she proudly realized . 
By the time Sam came and surely that wouldn't be many days she would be quite transformed . 
She mounted the steps and was about to ring when Mrs. Wylie herself , with stormy brow and snapping eyes , opened the door . 
Go into the parlor , she jerked out from between her unpleasant looking receding teeth . 
Susan gave her a glance of frightened wonder and obeyed . 
CHAPTER VIII AT the threshold her bundles dropped to the floor and all color fled from her face . 
Before her stood her Uncle George and Sam Wright and his father . 
The two elderly men were glowering at her Sam , white as his shirt and limp , was hanging his head . 
So , miss ! You've got back , eh ? cried her uncle in a tone she would not have believed could come from him . 
As quickly as fear had seized her she now shook it off . 
Yes , Uncle , she said calmly , meeting his angry eyes without flinching . 
And back came that expression of resolution of stubbornness we call it when it is the flag of opposition to our will . 
She said But he didn't know where I was . 
Don't lie to me , cried Warham . 
It won't do you any good , any more than his lying kept us from finding you . 
We came on the train and saw the Waterburys in the street and they'd seen you go into the drug store . 
We'd have caught you there if we'd been a few minutes sooner , but we drove , and got here in time . 
Now , tell me , Susan and his voice was cruelly harsh all about what's been going on between you and Sam . 
She gazed fearlessly and was silent . 
Speak up ! commanded Sam's father . 
Yes and no lies , said her uncle . 
I don't know what you mean , Susan at last answered truthfully enough , yet to gain time , too . 
You can't play that game any longer , cried Warham . 
You did make a fool of me , but my eyes are open . 
Your aunt's right about you . 
Oh , Uncle George ! said the girl , a sob in her voice . 
But he gazed pitilessly gazed at the woman he was now abhorring as the treacherous , fallen , unsexed daughter of fallen Lorella . 
What have you and this fellow been up to ? You disgrace ! Susan shrank and shivered , but answered steadfastly , That's between him and me , Uncle . 
Warham gave a snort of fury , turned to the elder Wright . 
You see , Wright , cried he . 
It's as my wife and I told you . 
We'll send the landlady out for a preacher and marry them . 
Hold on , George , objected Wright soothingly . 
I agreed to that only if there'd been something wrong . 
He turned to Susan , said in his gruff , blunt way Susan , have you been loose with my boy here ? Loose ? said Susan wonderingly . 
Tell them it isn't so , Susan , he pleaded , and his voice was little better than a whine of terror . 
Your uncle's going to kill me and my father'll kick me out . 
Susan's heart grew sick as she looked at him looked furtively , for she was ashamed to see him so abject . 
If you mean did I let him kiss me , she said to Mr. Wright , why , I did . 
But we had the right to . 
Sam turned on his father in an agony of terror . 
That isn't true ! he cried . 
I swear it isn't , father . 
I only made love to her a little , as a fellow does to lots of girls . 
Susan looked at him with wide , horrified eyes . 
Sam ! she exclaimed breathlessly . 
Sam ! Sam's eyes dropped , but he managed to turn his face in her direction . 
The situation was too serious for him he did not dare to indulge in such vanities as manhood or manly appearance . 
That's the truth , Susan , he said sullenly . 
You talked a lot about marrying but I never thought of such a thing . 
But you said you loved me . 
I didn't mean anything by it . 
There fell a silence that was interrupted by Mr. Wright . 
You see there's nothing in it , Warham . 
I'll take my boy and go . 
Not by a damn sight ! cried Warham . 
He's got to marry her . 
Susan , did Sam promise to marry you ? When he got through college , replied Susan . 
I thought so ! And he persuaded you to run away . 
He I say yes , stormed her uncle . 
Don't lie ! Warham ! Warham ! remonstrated Mr. Wright . 
He begged me not to go , said Susan . 
You lying fool ! shouted her uncle . 
Then to Wright , If he did ask her to stay it was because he was afraid it would all come out just as it has . 
I never promised to marry her ! whined Sam . 
Honest to God , father , I never did . 
Honest to God , Mr. Warham ! You know that's so , Susan . 
It was you that did all the marrying talk . 
Yes , she said slowly . 
Yes , I believe it was . 
She looked dazedly at the three men . 
I supposed he meant marriage because her voice faltered , but she steadied it and went on because we loved each other . 
I knew it ! cried her uncle . 
You hear , Wright ? She admits he betrayed her . 
Susan remembered the horrible part of her cousin's sex revelations . 
Oh , no ! she cried . 
I wouldn't have let him do that even if he had wanted to . 
No not even if we'd been married . 
You see , Warham ! cried Mr. Wright , in triumph . 
I see a liar ! was Warham's furious answer . 
She's trying to defend him and make out a case for herself . 
I am telling the truth , said Susan . 
Warham gazed unbelievingly at her , speechless with fury . 
Mr. Wright took his silk hat from the corer of the piano . 
I'm satisfied they're innocent , said he . 
So I'll take my boy and go . 
Not if I know it ! retorted Warham . 
He's got to marry her . 
But the girl says she's pure , says he never spoke of marriage , says he begged her not to run away . 
For a good Christian , sneered he at Wright , you're mighty easily convinced by a flimsy lie . 
I'll admit , said Mr. Wright smoothly , that I wasn't overanxious for my boy's marriage with a girl whose mother was unfortunate . 
But if your charge had been true , Warham , I'd have made the boy do her justice , she being only seventeen . 
Sam slunk toward the door . 
Warham stared fiercely at the elder Wright . 
And you call yourself a Christian ! he sneered . 
At the door Sam had already disappeared Mr. Wright paused to say , I'm going to give Sam a discipline he'll remember . 
The girl's only been foolish . 
Don't be harsh with her . 
You damned hypocrite ! shouted Warham . 
I might have known what to expect from a man who cut the wages of his hands to pay his church subscription . 
But Wright was far too crafty to be drawn . 
He went on pushing Sam before him . 
As the outer door closed behind them Mrs. Wylie appeared . 
I want you both to get out of my house as quick as you can , she snapped . 
My boarders'll be coming to dinner in a few minutes . 
Warham took his straw hat from the floor beside the chair behind him . 
I've nothing to do with this girl here . 
And he strode out of the house , slamming the door behind him . 
Mrs. Wylie looked at Susan with storming face and bosom . 
She was gazing into space , her face blanched . 
Clear out ! cried Mrs. Wylie . 
And she ran to the outer door and opened it . 
Clear out this minute ! she cried shrilly . 
If you don't , I'll throw your bundle into the street and you after it . 
Susan took up the bundle mechanically , slowly went out on the stoop . 
The door closed with a slam behind her . 
She descended the steps , walked a few yards up the street , paused at the edge of the curb and looked dazedly about . 
Her uncle stood beside her . 
Now where are you going ? he said roughly . 
I suppose , he went on , I've got to look after you . 
You shan't disgrace my daughter any further . 
Susan simply looked at him , her eyes unseeing , her brain swept clean of thought by the cyclone that had destroyed all her dreams and hopes . 
She was not horrified by his accusations such things had little meaning for one practically in complete ignorance of sex relations . 
She now felt indeed the outcast , looked down upon by all the world . 
If you hadn't lied , he fumed on , you'd have been his wife and a respectable woman . 
Instead , you're a disgrace . 
Everybody in Sutherland'll know you've gone the way your mother went . 
Go away , said the girl piteously . 
Alone ? What will become of you ? He addressed the question to himself , not to her . 
It doesn't matter , was her reply in a dreary tone . 
I've been betrayed , as my mother was . 
It doesn't matter what I knew it ! cried Warham , with no notion of what the girl meant by the word betrayed . 
But I wasn't , said Susan . 
I wouldn't do such a thing . 
There you go , lying again ! It doesn't matter , said she . 
All I want is for you to go away . 
You do ? sneered he . 
And then what ? I've got to think of Ruthie . 
He snatched the bundle from her hand . 
Come on ! I must do all I can to keep the disgrace to my family down . 
As for you , you don't deserve anything but the gutter , where you'd sink if I left you . 
You're your mother's own brat . 
Yes , I am , she cried . 
And I'm proud of it ! She turned from him , was walking rapidly away . 
Come with me ! ordered Warham , following and seizing her by the arm . 
No , said Susan , wrenching herself free . 
Then I'll call a policeman and have you locked up . 
Uncle and niece stood regarding each other , hatred and contempt in his gaze , hatred and fear in hers . 
You're a child in law though , God knows , you're anything but a child in fact . 
I'm going to see that you're put out of harm's way . 
You wouldn't take me back to Sutherland ! she cried . 
I guess not ! You'll not show your face there again though I've no doubt you'd be brazen enough to brass it out . 
No you can't pollute my home again . 
I can't go back to Sutherland ! You shan't , I say . 
You ran off because you had disgraced yourself . 
No ! Don't lie to me ! Don't speak to me . 
I'll see what I can do to hide this mess . 
Come along ! Susan looked helplessly round the street , saw nothing , not even eager , curious faces pressed against many a window pane , saw only a desolate waste . 
Then she walked along beside her uncle , both of them silent , he carrying her bundle , she tightly clutching her little purse . 
Perhaps the most amazing , the most stunning , of all the blows fate had thus suddenly showered upon her was this transformation of her uncle from gentleness to ferocity . 
To such she is either an object of adoration , a quintessence of purity and innocence , or less than the dust , sheer filth . 
Warham's anger was no gust . 
He was simply the average man of small intelligence , great vanity , and abject snobbishness or terror of public opinion . 
There could be but one reason for the flight of Lorella's daughter rottenness . 
The only point to consider now was how to save the imperiled family standing , how to protect his own daughter , whom his good nature and his wife's weakness had thus endangered . 
The one thing that could have appeased his hatred of Susan would have been her marriage to Sam Wright . 
Then he would have not , indeed , forgiven or reinstated her but tolerated her . 
They went to the Central Station . 
The O. and M. express which connected with the train on the branch line to Sutherland would not leave until a quarter past two . 
It was only a few minutes past one . 
Warham led the way into the station restaurant with a curt nod he indicated a seat at one of the small tables , and dropped into the opposite seat . 
He ordered beefsteak and fried potatoes , coffee and apple pie . 
Sit still ! he said to her roughly and rose to go out to buy a paper . 
The girl sat with her hands in her lap and her eyes upon them . 
She looked utterly , pitifully tired . 
A moment and he came back to resume his seat and read the paper . 
The waiter noisily exchanged it for the empty plate before Susan . 
Warham cut two slices of the steak for himself , took a liberal helping of the potatoes , pushed the dish toward her . 
Do you want the coffee now , or with the pie ? asked the waiter . 
Coffee for the young lady , too ? Warham scowled at her . 
She did not answer she did not hear . 
Yes , she wants coffee , said Warham . 
Hustle it ! Yes , sir . 
And the waiter bustled away with a great deal of motion that created a deceptive impression of speed . 
Warham glanced at Susan's plate . 
She had not disturbed the knife and fork on either side of it . 
And when she gave no sign of having heard , he repeatedly sharply , Eat , I tell you . 
She started , nervously took up the knife and fork , cut a morsel off the slice of steak . 
When she lifted it to her lips , she suddenly put it back in the plate . 
I can't , she said . 
You've got to , ordered he . 
I won't have you acting this way . 
I can't , she repeated monotonously . 
He repeated his order in a still more savage tone . 
She put her elbows on the table , rested her head wearily upon her hands , shook her head . 
With the pie went a cube of American cream or rat trap cheese . 
Warham ate his own pie and cheese then , as she had not touched hers , he reached for it and ate it also . 
Now he was watching the clock and , between liftings of laden fork to his mouth , verifying the clock's opinion of the hour by his own watch . 
Still , Warham had not made it with an idea of promoting good feeling between himself and the waiter , but simply to show that he knew the city and its ways . 
She rose and followed him to the ticket office . 
He had the return half of his own ticket . 
When she heard him ask for a ticket to North Sutherland she shivered . 
She knew that her destination was his brother Zeke's farm . 
From Cincinnati to North Vernon , where they were to change cars , he sat beside her without speech . 
At North Vernon , where they had to occupy a bench outside the squat and squalid station for nearly two hours , he sat beside her without speech . 
And without a single word on either side they journeyed in the poking , no sooner well started than stopping accommodation train southbound . 
Several Sutherland people were aboard . 
He nodded surlily to those who spoke to him . 
He read an Indianapolis paper which he had bought at North Vernon . 
All the way she gazed unseeingly out over the fair June landscape of rolling or hilly fields ripening in the sun . 
At North Sutherland he bade her follow him to a dilapidated barn a few yards from the railway tracks , where was displayed a homemade sign V. Goslin . 
There was dickering and a final compromise on four dollars where the proprieter had demanded five and Warham had declared two fifty liberal . 
A surrey was hitched with two horses . 
Warham opened the awkward door to the rear seat and ordered Susan to jump in . 
She obeyed he put the bundle on the floor beside her . 
He sat with the driver the proprietor himself . 
The horses set off at a round pace over the smooth turnpike . 
It was evening , and a beautiful coolness issued from the woods on either side . 
They skimmed over the long level stretches they climbed hills , they raced down into valleys . 
Warham and the ragged , rawboned old proprietor kept up a kind of conversation about crops and politics , about the ownership , value , and fertility of the farms they were passing . 
Susan sat quiet , motionless most of the time . 
The last daylight faded the stars came out the road wound in and out , up and down , amid cool dark silence and mysterious fascinating shadows . 
The moon appeared above the tree tops straight ahead a big moon , with a lower arc of the rim clipped off . 
The turnpike ended they were making equally rapid progress over the dirt road which was in perfect condition as there had been no rain for several days . 
Susan soon awakened , rather because the surrey was pitching so wildly than because of Goslin's denunciations . 
A brief level stretch and they stopped for Warham to open the outer gate into his brother Zeke's big farm . 
A quarter of a mile through wheat to the tops of the wheels and they reached the second gate . 
A descent into a valley , a crossing of a creek , an ascent of a steep hill , and they were at the third gate between pasture and barnyard . 
Now they came into view of the house , set upon a slope where a spring bubbled out . 
The house was white and a white picket fence cut off its lawn from the barnyard . 
A dog with a deep voice began to bark . 
They drove up to the front gate and stopped . 
The dog barked in a frenzy of rage , and they heard his straining and jerking at his chain . 
A clump of cedars brooded to the right of the house their trunks were whitewashed up to the lowest branches . 
The house had a high stoop with wooden steps . 
As Warham descended and hallooed , there came a fierce tugging at the front door from the inside . 
But the front door was not in the habit of being opened , and stoutly resisted . 
The assault grew more strenuous the door gave way and a tall thin farmer appeared . 
Hello , Zeke , called George . 
He opened the surrey door . 
Get down , he said to the girl , at the same time taking her bundle . 
He set it on the horse block beside the gate , took out his pocketbook and paid over the four dollars . 
Good by , Vic , said he pleasantly . 
That's a good team you've got . 
Not so coarse , said Vic . 
Good by , Mr. Warham . 
Zeke Warham had now descended the steps and was opening the front gate , which was evidently as unaccustomed to use as the front door . 
Howdy , George , said he . 
Ain't that Susie you've got with you ? Like George , Zeke had had an elementary education . 
But he had married an ignorant woman , and had lived so long among his farm hands and tenants that he used their mode of speech . 
Yes , it's Susie , said George , shaking hands with his brother . 
Howdy , Susie , said Zeke , shaking hands with her . 
I see you've got your things with you . 
Come to stay awhile ? George interrupted . 
Susan , go up on the porch and take your bundle . 
The girl took up the shawl strap and went to the front door . 
She leaned upon the railing of the stoop and watched the two men standing at the gate . 
George was talking to his brother in a low tone . 
Occasionally the brother uttered an ejaculation . 
She could not hear their heads were so turned that she could not see their faces . 
The moon made it almost as bright as day . 
From the pasture woods came a low , sweet chorus of night life frogs and insects and occasionally a night bird . 
From the orchard to the left and the clover fields beyond came a wonderful scented breeze . 
She heard a step in the hall her Aunt Sallie appeared a comfortable , voluble woman , a hard worker and a harder eater and showing it in thin hair and wrinkled face . 
Why , Susie Lenox , ain't that you ? she exclaimed . 
Yes , Aunt , said Susan . 
Her aunt kissed her , diffusing that earthy odor which is the basis of the smell of country persons . 
At various hours of the day this odor would be modified with the smell of cow stables , of chickens , of cooking , according to immediate occupation . 
But whatever other smell there was , the earthy smell persisted . 
And it was the smell of the house , too . 
Who's at the gate with your Uncle Zeke ? inquired Sallie . 
Ain't it George ? Yes , said Susan . 
Why don't he come in ? She raised her voice . 
George , ain't you coming in ? Howdy , Sallie , called George . 
You take the girl in . 
Zeke and I'll be along . 
Some business , I reckon , said her aunt to Susan . 
Have you had supper ? No , said Susan . 
I'll set something out for you , said Sallie . 
You might leave your bundle here by the parlor door . 
We'll put you in the upstairs room . 
They were in the plain old dining room with its smaller fireplace and its big old fashioned cupboards built into the wall on either side of the projecting chimney piece . 
There ain't much , resumed Sallie . 
But I reckon you kin make out . 
On the gayly patterned table cover she set an array of substantial plates and glasses . 
Susan watched with hungry eyes . 
She was thinking of nothing but food now . 
Her aunt looked at her and smiled . 
My , but you're shootin' up ! she exclaimed , admiring the girl's tall , straight figure . 
And you don't seem to get stringy and bony like so many , but keep nice and round . 
I I think I'll wait until Uncle George comes . 
Nothing of the kind ! She pushed a wooden chair before one of the two plates she had laid . 
I see you've still got that lovely skin . 
And how tasty you dress ! Now , do set ! Susan seated herself . 
Pitch right in , child , urged Sallie . 
How's yer aunt and her Ruth ? They're they're well , thank you . 
Do eat ! No , said Susan . 
Then seeing that the girl would not eat , she said , Well , I'll go fetch him . 
Please please don't , she entreated . 
It was nearly half an hour by the big square wooden clock on the chimney piece when Susan heard the steps of her two uncles . 
Her hunger fled the deathly sickness surged up again . 
She trembled , grew ghastly in the yellow lamplight . 
Her hands clutched each other in her lap . 
Why , Susie ! cried her aunt . 
Whatever is the matter of you ! The girl lifted her eyes to her aunt's face the eyes of a wounded , suffering , horribly suffering animal . 
She rose , rushed out of the door into the yard , flung herself down on the grass . 
But still she could not get the relief of tears . 
After a while she sat up and listened . 
She heard faintly the voices of her uncle and his relatives . 
Presently her aunt came out to her . 
She hid her face in her arm and waited for the new harshness to strike . 
Get up and come in , Susie . 
The voice was kind , was pitying not with the pity that galls , but with the pity of one who understands and feels and is also human , the pity that soothes . 
At least to this woman she was not outcast . 
The girl flung herself down again and sobbed poured out upon the bosom of our mother earth all the torrents of tears that had been damming up within her . 
And Sallie knelt beside her and patted her now and then , with a That's right . 
Cry it out , sweetie . 
When tears and sobs subsided Sallie lifted her up , walked to the house with her arm round her . 
Do you feel better ? Some , admitted Susan . 
The men folks have went . 
So we kin be comfortable . 
After you've et , you'll feel still better . 
Gorge Warham had made a notable inroad upon the food and drink . 
But there was an abundance left . 
Susan began with a hesitating sipping at a glass of milk and nibbling at one of the generous cubes of old fashioned cornbread . 
It delighted Sallie to see her eat . 
She pressed the preserves , the chicken , the cornbread upon her . 
I haven't eaten since early this morning , apologized the girl . 
That means a big hole to fill , observed Sallie . 
But Susan could hold no more . 
I reckon you're pretty well tired out , observed Sallie . 
I'll help you straighten up , said Susan , rising . 
No. Let me take you up to bed while the men's still outside . 
They returned through the empty sitting room and along the hall . 
Aunt Sallie took the bundle , and they ascended to the spare bedroom . 
I'll run down and put the things away , said her aunt . 
Susan put her bundle on the sofa , opened it , found nightgown and toilet articles on top . 
She looked uncertainly about , rapidly undressed , got into the nightgown . 
I'll turn down the bed and lie on it until Auntie comes , she said to herself . 
The bed was delightfully cool the shuck mattress made soft crackling sounds under her and gave out a soothing odor of the fields . 
Hardly had her head touched the pillow when she fell sound asleep . 
In a few minutes her aunt came hurrying in , stopped short at sight of that lovely childlike face with the lamplight full upon it . 
One of Susan's tapering arms was flung round her dark wavy hair . 
Bless the baby she said half aloud . 
Then her smile faded and a look of sadness and pity came . 
Poor child ! she murmured . 
But then all the men's hard . 
And gently she kissed the girl's flushed cheek . 
And she never had no mother , nor nothing . 
She sighed , gradually lowered the flame of the little old glass lamp , blew it out , and went noiselessly from the room , closing the door behind her . 
CHAPTER IX SUSAN sat up in bed suddenly , rubbing the sleep from her eyes . 
It was broad day , and the birds were making a mighty clamor . 
She gazed round , astonished that it was not her own room . 
Soon , however , the restlessness of all nature under the stimulus and heat of that brilliant day communicated itself to her vigorous young body . 
The cows which had just been milked were moving sedately through the gate into the pasture , where the bull , under a tree , was placidly awaiting them . 
A boy , in huge straw hat and a blue cotton shirt and linsey woolsey trousers rolled high upon his brown bare legs , was escorting the herd . 
Her aunt in fresh , blue , checked calico came in . 
Wouldn't you like some breakfast ? said she . 
And Susan read in her manner that the men were out of the way . 
No , I don't feel hungry , Susan replied . 
She thought this was true but when she was at the table she ate almost as heartily as she had the night before . 
As Susan ate she gazed out into the back yard of the house , where chickens of all sizes , colors and ages were peering and picking about . 
Through the fence of the kitchen garden she saw Lew , the farm hand , digging potatoes . 
Bees flew in and out , and one lighted upon the dish of honey in the comb that went so well with the hot biscuit . 
She thought of those cannier , less docile hens and laughed . 
She opened a gate into the barnyard , intending to go to the barn for a look at the horses , taking in the duck pond and perhaps the pigs on the way . 
Her Uncle Gorge's voice arrested her . 
She turned and looked wistfully at him . 
The same harsh , unforgiving countenance mean with anger and petty thoughts . 
As she moved hesitatingly toward him he said , You are not to go out of the yard . 
And he reentered the house . 
She strolled wretchedly within bounds , with a foreboding of impending evil . 
Toward eleven o'clock her Uncle Zeke appeared in the dining room , called his wife from the kitchen . 
Susan felt that at last something was to happen . 
After a long time her aunt returned there were all the evidences of weeping in her face . 
You'd better go to your room and straighten it up , she said without looking at the girl . 
The thing has aired long enough , I reckon . 
And you'd better stay up there till I call you . 
Susan had finished the room , was about to unpack the heavy laden shawl strap and shake the wrinkles out of the skirts , folded away for two days now . 
She heard the sound of a horse's hoofs , went to the window . 
A young man whom she recognized as one of her Uncle Zeke's tenants was hitching to the horse block a well set up young mare drawing a species of broad seated breaking sulky . 
He had a handsome common face , a wavy black mustache . 
He glanced up at the window , raised his black slouch hat , and nodded with the self conscious , self assured grin of the desired of women . 
She tried to return this salute with a pleasant smile . 
He entered the gate and she heard his boots upon the front steps . 
Now away across the hollow another figure appeared a man on horseback coming through the wheat fields . 
He was riding toward the farther gate of the pasture at a leisurely dignified pace . 
She had only made out that he had abundant whiskers when the sound of a step upon the stairs caused her to turn . 
As that step came nearer her heart beat more and more wildly . 
Her wide eyes fixed upon the open door of the room . 
It was her Uncle George . 
Sit down , he said as he reached the threshhold sic . 
I want to talk to you . 
She seated herself , with hands folded in her lap . 
Her head was aching from the beat of the blood in her temples . 
Zeke and I have talked it over , said Warham . 
And we've decided that the only thing to do with you is to get you settled . 
So in a few minutes now you're going to be married . 
Her lack of expression showed that she did not understand . 
In fact , she could only feel feel the cruel , contemptuous anger of that voice which all her days before had caressed her . 
We've picked out a good husband for you , Warham continued . 
I I don't want to , she said . 
It ain't a question of what you want , retorted Warham roughly . 
He was twenty four hours and a night's sleep away from his first fierce outblazing of fury away from the influence of his wife and his daughter . 
If it had not been for his brother Zeke , narrow and cold , the event might have been different . 
But Zeke was there to keep his sense of duty strong . 
It ain't a question of what you want , he repeated . 
It's a question of what's got to be done , to save my family and you , too from disgrace . 
We ain't going to have any more bastards in this family . 
The word meant nothing to the girl . 
But the sound of it , as her uncle pronounced it , made her feel as though the blood were drying up in her veins . 
The necessity of what he was prepared to do and to make her do was too obvious . 
Ferguson's here , and Zeke saw the preacher we sent for riding in from the main road . 
So I've come to tell you . 
If you'd like to fix up a little , why your Aunt Sallie'll be here in a minute . 
You want to pray God to make you a good wife . 
And you ought to be thankful you have sensible relations to step in and save you from yourself . 
Susan tried to speak her voice died in her throat . 
I don't want to , she said . 
Then what do you want to do tell me that ! exclaimed her uncle , rough again . 
For her manner was very moving , the more so because there was none of the usual appeal to pity and to mercy . 
There isn't anything else for you to do . 
I want to to stay here . 
Do you think Zeke'd harbor you when you're about certain to up and disgrace us as your mother did ? I haven't done anything wrong , said the girl dully . 
Don't you dare lie about that ! I've seen Ruth do the same with Artie Sinclair and all the girls with different boys . 
You miserable girl ! cried her uncle . 
I never heard it was so dreadful to let a boy kiss you . 
Don't pretend to be innocent . 
You know the difference between that and what you did ! Susan realized that when she had kissed Sam she had really loved him . 
Perhaps that was the fatal difference . 
And her mother the sin there had been that she really loved while the man hadn't . 
Yes , it must be so . 
I didn't know , said Susan to her uncle . 
I thought we were engaged . 
A good woman don't need to be told , retorted Warham . 
But I'm not going to argue with you . 
I couldn't do that , said the girl . 
You'll either take him or you go back to Sutherland and I'll have you locked up in the jail till you can be sent to the House of Correction . 
You can take your choice . 
Susan sat looking at her slim brown hands and interlacing her long fingers . 
But the jail she had seen the jail , back behind the courthouse , with its air of mystery and of horror . 
Not Hell itself seemed such a frightful thing as that jail . 
Well which do you choose ? said her uncle in a sharp voice . 
I don't care what happens to me , she said , and her voice was dull and sullen and hard . 
And it doesn't much matter , sneered Warham . 
Every time he looked at her his anger flamed again at the outrage to his love , his trust , his honor , and the impending danger of more illegitimacy . 
Marrying Jeb will give you a chance to reform and be a good woman . 
He understands so you needn't be afraid of what he'll find out . 
I don't care what happens to me , the girl repeated in the same monotonous voice . 
I'll send your Aunt Sallie , said he . 
And when I call , she'll bring you down . 
The girl's silence , her non resistance the awful expression of her still features made him uneasy . 
He went to the window instead of to the door . 
He glanced furtively at her but he might have glanced openly as there wasn't the least danger of meeting her eyes . 
You're marrying about as well as you could have hoped to , anyhow better , probably , he observed , in an argumentative , defensive tone . 
Zeke says Jeb's about the likeliest young fellow he knows a likelier fellow than either Zeke or I was at his age . 
I've given him two thousand dollars in cash . 
That ought to start you off well . 
And he went out without venturing another look at her . 
Besides , he did not dare face his wife and his daughter until the whole business was settled respectably and finally . 
His sister in law was waiting in the next room . 
As soon as his descent cleared the way she hurried in . 
From the threshold she glanced at the girl what she saw sent her hurrying out to recompose herself . 
But the instant she again saw that expression of mute and dazed despair the tears fought for release . 
The effort to suppress outward signs of pity made her plain fat face grotesque . 
With a corner of her apron she wiped imaginary dust from the glass bells that protected the artificial flowers . 
The poor child ! And all for no fault of hers and because she had been born out of wedlock . 
She believed , but her tender heart was always leading her into doubts . 
She at last got some sort of control over her voice . 
It'll turn out for the best , she said , with her back to Susan . 
It don't make much difference nohow who a woman marries , so long as he's steady and a good provider . 
Jeb seems to be a nice feller . 
He's better looking than your Uncle George was before he went to town and married a Lenox and got sleeked up . 
And Jeb ain't near so close as some . 
That's a lot in a husband . 
I'll go down and see , said Mrs. Warham , glad of a real excuse for leaving the room . 
She began to cry as soon as she was in the hall . 
Two sparrows lit upon the window sill near Susan and screamed and pecked at each other in a mock fight . 
She watched them but her shiver at the faint sound of her aunt's returning step far away down the stairs showed where her attention was . 
When Zeke's wife entered she was standing and said Is it time ? Come on , honey . 
Susan advanced with a firm step , preceded her aunt down the stairs . 
The black slouch hat and the straw of dignified cut were side by side on the shiny hall table . 
The parlor door was open the rarely used showroom gave forth an earthy , moldy odor like that of a disturbed grave . 
The four men were seated , each with his legs crossed , and each wearing the funereal expression befitting a solemn occasion . 
Susan did not lift her eyes . 
This is the young lady , is it ? said he , reaching for Susan's rising but listless hand . 
She is indeed a young lady ! The two Warham men stood , shifting uneasily from leg to leg and rubbing their faces from time to time . 
Sallie Warham was standing also , her big unhealthy face twitching fantastically . 
Jeb alone was seated chair tilted back , hands in trousers pockets , a bucolic grin of embarrassment giving an expression of pain to his common features . 
A strained silence , then Zeke Warham said I reckon we might as well go ahead . 
The preacher took a small black bound book from the inside pocket of his limp and dusty coat , cleared his throat , turned over the pages . 
That rustling , the creaking of his collar on his overstarched shirt band , and the buzzing of the mud daubers round the windows were the only sounds . 
The preacher found the place , cleared his throat again . 
Mr. Ferguson Jeb , tall , spare , sallow , rose awkwardly . 
You and Miss Lenox will take your places here and he indicated a position before him . 
Susan was already in place Jeb shuffled up to stand at her left . 
Sallie Warham hid her face in her apron . 
The preacher cleared his throat vigorously , began Dearly beloved and so on and on . 
When he had finished a matter of less than three minutes he shook hands warmly first with Susan , then with Jeb . 
Live in the fear of the Lord , he said . 
Sallie put down her apron . 
Her face was haggard and gray . 
She kissed Susan tenderly , then led her from the room . 
They went upstairs to the bedroom . 
Do you want to stay to dinner ? she asked in the hoarse undertone of funeral occasions . 
Or would you rather go right away ? I'd rather go , said the girl . 
You set down and make yourself comfortable . 
I'll hook up your shawl strap . 
Susan sat by the window , her hands in her lap . 
The hand with the new circlet of gold on it was uppermost . 
Sallie busied herself with the bundle abruptly she threw her apron over her face , knelt by the bed and sobbed and uttered inarticulate moans . 
The girl made no sound , did not move , looked unseeingly at her inert hands . 
A few moments and Sallie set to work again . 
She soon had the bundle ready , brought Susan's hat , put it on . 
It's so hot , I reckon you'll carry your jacket . 
I ain't seen as pretty a blue dress as this yet it's plainlike , too . 
She went to the top of the stairs . 
She wants to go , Jeb , she called loudly . 
You'd better get the sulky ready . 
The answer from below was the heavy thump of Jeb's boots on the oilcloth covering of the hall floor . 
Susan , from the window , dully watched the young farmer unhitch the mare and lead her up in front of the gate . 
Come on , honey , said Aunt Sallie , taking up the bundle . 
The girl she seemed a child now followed her . 
On the front stoop were George and his brother and the preacher . 
The men made room for them to pass . 
Sallie opened the gate Susan went out . 
You'll have to hold the bundle , said Sallie . 
Susan mounted to the seat , took the bundle on her knees . 
Jeb , who had the lines , left the mare's head and got up beside his bride . 
Good day , all , he said , nodding at the men on the stoop . 
Good day , Mrs. Warham . 
Come and see us real soon , said Sallie . 
Her fat chin was quivering her tired looking , washed out eyes gazed mournfully at the girl who was acting and looking as if she were walking in her sleep . 
Good day , all , repeated Jeb , and again he made the clucking sound . 
Good by and God bless you , said the preacher . 
His nostrils were luxuriously sniffing the air which bore to them odors of cookery . 
Susan's gaze rested immovably upon the heavy bundle in her lap . 
As the road was in wretched repair , Jeb's whole attention was upon his driving . 
At the gate between barnyard and pasture he said , You hold the lines while I get down . 
Susan's fingers closed mechanically upon the strips of leather . 
Jeb led the mare through the gate , closed it , resumed his seat . 
This time the mare went on without exacting the clucking sound . 
They were following the rocky road along the wester hillside of the pasture hollow . 
The struggle at last broke surface with , Zeke Warham don't waste no time road patchin' does he ? Susan did not answer . 
Jeb studied her out of the corner of his eye , the first time a fairly good bit of roadway permitted . 
He could make nothing of her face except that it was about the prettiest he had ever seen . 
Plainly she was not eager to get acquainted still , acquainted they must get . 
So he tried again My sister Keziah she keeps house for me she'll be mighty surprised when I turn up with a wife . 
I didn't let on to her what I was about , nary a word . 
He laughed and looked expectantly at the girl . 
Jeb again devoted himself to his driving . 
No , I didn't let on , he presently resumed . 
Fact is , I wan't sure myself till I seed you at the winder . 
He smiled flirtatiously at her . 
Then I decided to go ahead . 
I dunno , but I somehow kinder allow you and me'll hit it off purty well don't you ? Susan tried to speak . 
She found that she could not that she had nothing to say . 
You're the kind of a girl I always had my mind set on , pursued Jeb , who was an expert love maker . 
I like a smooth skin and pouty lips that looks as if they wanted to be kissed . 
He took the reins in one hand , put his arm round her , clumsily found her lips with his . 
She shrank slightly , then submitted . 
But Jeb somehow felt no inclination to kiss her again . 
After a moment he let his arm drop away from her waist and took the reins in both hands with an elaborate pretense that the bad road compelled it . 
A long silence , then he tried again It's cool and nice under these here trees , ain't it ? Yes , she said . 
I ain't saw you out here for several years now . 
How long has it been ? Three summers ago . 
You must 'a' growed some . 
I don't seem to recollect you . 
You like the country ? Yes . 
Sho ! You're just sayin' that . 
You want to live in town . 
Susan's strange eyes turned upon him . 
In Sutherland ? she asked breathlessly . 
Right in Sutherland , replied he complacently . 
I think I'll buy Jake Antle's place in Jefferson Street . 
Susan was blanched and trembling . 
Oh , no , she cried . 
You mustn't do that ! Jeb laughed . 
You see if I don't . 
And we'll live in style , and you can keep a gal and stay dolled up all the time . 
Oh , I know how to treat you . 
I want to stay in the country , cried Susan . 
Now , don't you be afraid , soothed Jeb . 
When people see you've got a husband and money they'll not be down on you no more . 
They'll forget all about your maw and they won't know nothin' about the other thing . 
You treat me right and I'll treat you right . 
I'm not one to rake up the past . 
There ain't arry bit of meanness about me ! But you'll let me stay here in the country ? pleaded Susan . 
Her imagination was torturing her with pictures of herself in Sutherland and the people craning and whispering and mocking . 
You go where I go , replied Jeb . 
A woman's place is with her man . 
And I'll knock anybody down that looks cockeyed at you . 
Oh ! murmured Susan , sinking back against the support . 
Don't you fret , Susie , ordered Jeb , confident and patronizing . 
You do what I say and everything'll be all right . 
That's the way to get along with me and get nice clothes do what I say . 
With them that crosses me I'm mighty ugly . 
But you ain't a goin' to cross me . 
Now , about the house . 
I reckon I'd better send Keziah off right away . 
You kin cook ? A a little , said Susan . 
Then she'd be in the way . 
Two women about always fights and Keziah's got the Ferguson temper . 
She's afraid of me , but now and then she fergits and has a tantrum . 
Jeb looked at her with a smile and a frown . 
Perk up a little , he more than half ordered . 
I don't want Keziah jeerin' at me . 
Susan made a pitiful effort to smile . 
He eyed it sourly , grunted , gave the mare a cut with the whip that caused her to leap forward in a gallop . 
Whoa damn you ! And he sawed cruelly at her mouth until she quieted down . 
A turning and they were before a shallow story and a half frame house which squatted like an old roadside beggar behind a weather beaten picket fence . 
The sagging shingle roof sloped abruptly there were four little windows downstairs and two smaller upstairs . 
The door was in the center of the house a weedy path led from its crooked step , between two patches of weedy grass , to the gate in the fence . 
Whoa ! shouted Jeb , with the double purpose of stopping the mare and informing the house of his arrival . 
Then to Susan You git down and I'll drive round to the barn yonder . 
He nodded toward a dilapidated clapboard structure , small and mean , set between a dirty lopsided straw heap and a manure heap . 
Go right in and make yourself at home . 
Tell Keziah who you air . 
I'll be along , soon as I unhitch and feed the mare . 
Susan was staring stupidly at the house at her new home . 
Git down , he said sharply . 
You don't act as if your hearin' or your manners was much to brag on . 
He felt awkward and embarrassed with this delicately bred , lovely child woman in the , to him , wonderfully fine and fashionable dress . 
To hide his nervousness and to brave it out , he took the only way he knew , the only way shy people usually know the way of gruffness . 
It was not a ferocious gruffness for a man of his kind but it seemed so to her who had been used to gentleness only , until these last few days . 
She stepped down from the sulky , almost falling in her dizziness and blindness . 
Jeb touched the mare with the whip and she was alone before the house a sweet forlorn figure , childish , utterly out of place in those surroundings . 
On the threshold , in faded and patched calico , stood a tall gaunt woman with a family likeness to Jeb . 
She had thin shiny black hair , a hard brown skin , high cheekbones and snapping black eyes . 
Howdy ! she called in a tone of hostility . 
Susan tried in vain to respond . 
What d'ye want ? He he told me to go in , faltered Susan . 
She had no sense of reality . 
It was a dream only a dream and she would awaken in her own clean pretty pale gray bedroom with Ruth gayly calling her to come down to breakfast . 
Who are you ? demanded Keziah for at a glance it was the sister . 
And Keziah looked as if she were about to bite and claw . 
Susan pushed open the latchless gate , went up the short path to the doorstep . 
I think I'll wait till he comes , she said . 
No. Come in and sit down , Miss Lenox . 
And Keziah drew a rush bottomed rocking chair toward the doorway . 
Susan was looking at the interior . 
The lower floor of the house was divided into three small rooms . 
This central room was obviously the parlor the calico covered sofa , the center table , the two dingy chromos , and a battered cottage organ made that certain . 
On the floor was a rag carpet on the walls , torn and dirty paper , with huge weather stains marking where water had leaked from the roof down the supporting beams . 
Keziah scowled at Susan's frank expression of repulsion for the surroundings . 
Susan seated herself on the edge of the chair , put her bundle beside her . 
I allow you'll stay to dinner , said Keziah . 
Then I'll go put on some more to cook . 
Oh , no please don't I couldn't eat anything really , I couldn't . 
Just then Jeb came round the house and appeared in the doorway . 
He grinned and winked at Susan , looked at his sister . 
The young man laughed loudly . 
That's a good one that is ! he cried , nodding and winking at Susan . 
So you ain't tole her ? Well , Keziah , I've been and gone and got married . 
Shut up you fool ! said Keziah . 
And she looked apologetically at their guest . 
But the expression of Susan's face made her catch her breath . 
For the Lord's sake ! she ejaculated . 
She ain't married you ! Why not ? demanded Jeb . 
Ain't this a free country ? Ain't I as good as anybody ? Keziah blew out her breath in a great gust and seated herself on the tattered calico cover of the sofa . 
Then she sat quiet upon the edge of the old rush bottomed chair . 
There was a terrible silence , broken by Jeb's saying loudly and fiercely , Keziah , you go get the dinner . 
Then you pack your duds and clear out for Uncle Bob's . 
Keziah stared at the bride , rose and went to the rear door . 
I'm goin' now , she answered . 
The dinner's ready except for putting on the table . 
Through the flimsy partitions they heard her mounting the uncarpeted stairs , hustling about upon an uncarpeted floor above , and presently descending . 
I'll hoof it , she said , reappearing in the doorway . 
I'll send for my things this afternoon . 
Jeb , not caring to provoke the Ferguson temper , said nothing . 
As for this here marryin' , continued Keziah , I never allowed you'd fall so low as to take a baby , and a bastard at that . 
Jeb flung his hat on the table , flung himself on the sofa . 
Well that's settled , said he . 
You kin get the dinner . 
And he jerked his head toward the door in the partition to the left . 
Susan got up , moved toward the indicated door . 
Don't you think you might take off your hat and stay awhile ? said he . 
She removed her hat , put it on top of the bundle which she left on the floor beside the rocking chair . 
She went into the kitchen dining room . 
It was a squalid room , its ceiling and walls smoke stained from the cracked and never polished stove in the corner . 
The air was foul with the strong old onions stewing on the stove . 
In a skillet slices of pork were frying . 
On the back of the stove stood a pan of mashed potatoes and a tin coffeepot . 
On the stained flowered cloth which covered the table in the middle of the room had been laid coarse , cracked dishes and discolored steel knives and forks with black wooden handles . 
Susan , half fainting , dropped into a chair by one of the open windows . 
A multitude of fat flies from the stable were running and crawling everywhere , were buzzing about her head . 
She was aroused by Jeb's voice Why , what the the damnation ! You've fell asleep ! She started up . 
In a minute ! she muttered , nervously . 
Jeb , in his shirt sleeves now , sat down and fell to . 
She sat opposite him , her hands in her lap . 
He used his knife in preference to his fork , leaping the blade high , packing the food firmly upon it with fork or fingers , then thrusting it into his mouth . 
He ate voraciously , smacking his lips , breathing hard , now and then eructing with frank energy and satisfaction . 
My stummick's gassy right smart this year , he observed after a huge gulp of coffee . 
Some says the heavy rains last spring put gas into everything , but I dunno . 
I hope you'll do better . 
Why , you ain't eatin' nothin' ! I'm not hungry , said Susan . 
Then , as he frowned suspiciously , I had a late breakfast . 
And the marrying , too , he suggested with a flirtatious nod and wink . 
Women's always upset by them kind of things . 
When he had filled himself he pushed his chair back . 
I'll set with you while you wash up , said he . 
But you'd better take off them Sunday duds . 
You'll find some calikers that belonged to maw in a box under the bed in our room . 
He laughed and winked at her . 
That's the one on t'other side of the settin' room . 
Yes that's our'n ! And he winked again . 
The girl , ghastly white , her great eyes staring like a sleepwalker's , rose and stood resting one hand on the back of the chair to steady her . 
Jeb drew a cigar from his waistcoat pocket and lighted it . 
Usually , said he , I take a pipe or a chaw . 
But this bein' a weddin' day He laughed and winked again , rose , took her in his arms and kissed her . 
She made a feeble gesture of thrusting him away . 
Her head reeled , her stomach turned . 
She got away as soon as he would release her , crossed the sitting room and entered the tiny dingy bedroom . 
The windows were down and the bed had not yet been made . 
The odor was nauseating the staleness left by a not too clean sleeper who abhors fresh air . 
Susan saw the box under the bed , knelt to draw it out . 
But instead she buried her face in her hands , burst into wild sobs . 
Oh , God , she prayed , stop punishing me . 
I didn't mean to do wrong and I'm sure my mother didn't , either . 
Stop , for Thy Son's sake , amen . 
Now surely she would wake . 
God must answer that prayer . 
She dared not take her palms from her eyes . 
Suddenly she felt herself caught from behind . 
She gave a wild scream and sprang up . 
Jeb was looking at her with eyes that filled her with a fear more awful than the fear of death . 
Don't ! Never mind , hon , said he in a voice that was terrible just because it was soft . 
My , but you're purty ! And he seized her . 
He kissed her with great slobbering smacks and gnawed at the flesh of her neck with teeth that craved to bite . 
Oh , Mr. Ferguson , for pity's sake ! she wailed . 
Then she opened her mouth wide as one gasping for breath where there is no air and pushing at him with all her strength she vented a series of maniac shrieks . 
CHAPTER X LATE that afternoon Jeb returned to the house after several hours of uneasy , aimless pottering about at barn and woodshed . 
There she lay , apparently in the same position . 
He stood in the low doorway for some time , stood there peering and craning until his fear grew so great that he could no longer put off ending or confirming it . 
Sleepin' ? said he in a hoarse undertone . 
She did not reply she did not move . 
He could not see that she was breathing . 
Want me to clean up the dinner and put the supper things on ? She made a feeble effort to rise , sank back again . 
He drew an audible sigh of relief at least she was not what her color had suggested . 
In fact , she was morbidly conscious . 
The instant she had heard him at the outer door she had begun to shiver and shake , and not until he moved toward the bedroom door did she become quiet . 
Then a calm had come into her nerves and her flesh the calm that descends upon the brave when the peril actually faces . 
Her whole body sickened and shrank for to her now that odor meant marriage and she would not have believed Hell contained or Heaven permitted such a thing as was marriage . 
She understood now why the Bible always talked of man as a vile creature born in sin . 
Jeb was stealthily watching her ghastly face , her limp body . 
Feelin' sickish ? he asked . 
A slight movement of the head in assent . 
I kin ride over to Beecamp and fetch Doc Christie . 
Another and negative shake of the head , more determined . 
The pale lips murmured , No no , thank you . 
She was not hating him . 
He existed for her only as a symbol , in this hideous dream called life , that was coiled like a snake about her and was befouling her and stinging her to death . 
Don't you bother 'bout supper , said he with gruff , shamefaced generosity . 
I'll look out for myself , this onct . 
He withdrew to the kitchen , where she heard him clattering dishes and pans . 
Daylight waned to twilight , twilight to dusk , to darkness . 
She did not think she did not feel , except an occasional dull pang from some bodily bruise . 
Her soul , her mind , were absolutely numb . 
Suddenly a radiance beat upon her eyes . 
All in an instant , before the lifting of her eyelids , soul and body became exquisitely acute for she thought it was he come again , with a lamp . 
She looked it was the moon whose beams struck full in at the uncurtained window and bathed her face in their mild brighteness . 
When she awoke it was with a scream . 
No , she was not dreaming there was an odor in the room his odor , with that of a saloon added to it . 
After cooking and eating supper he had taken the jug from its concealment behind the woodbox and had proceeded to cheer his drooped spirits . 
A proper game it was too only a man must not pay attention to it unless he wished his woman to despise him . 
He put out the lamp and went to the bedroom , chuckling to himself like a man about to play a particularly clever and extremely good humored practical joke . 
His preparations for the night were , as always , extremely simple merely a flinging off of his outer clothes and , in summer , his socks . 
From time to time he cast an admiring amorous glance at the lovely childlike face in the full moonlight . 
As he was about to stretch himself on the bed beside her he happened to note that she was dressed as when she came . 
That stylish , Sundayish dress was already too much mussed and wrinkled . 
He leaned over to wake her with a kiss . 
It was then that she started up with a scream . 
Oh oh my God ! she exclaimed , passing her hand over her brow and staring at him with crazed , anguished eyes . 
It's jest me , said he . 
Thought you'd want to git ready fur bed , like as not . 
No , thank you , no , she stammered , drawing away toward the inner side of the bed . 
Please I want to be as I am . 
Now , don't put on , sweetness , he wheedled . 
You know you're married and 'ave got to git used to it . 
He laid his hand on her arm . 
She had intended to obey , since that was the law of God and man and since in all the world there was no other place for her , nameless and outcast . 
But at his touch she clenched her teeth , cried No Mr. Ferguson please please let me be . 
Now , hon , he pleaded , seizing her with strong gentleness . 
There ain't no call to be skittish . 
We're married , you know . 
What's the use of puttin' on ? I know all about you . 
You little no name , he cursed , when her teeth sank into his hand . 
For an instant , at that reminder of her degradation , her indelible shame that made her of the low and the vile , she collapsed in weakness . 
Then with new and fierce strength she fought again . 
When she had exhausted herself utterly she relaxed , fell to sobbing and moaning , feebly trying to shelter her face from his gluttonous and odorous kisses . 
And upon the scene the moon shone in all that beauty which from time immemorial has filled the hearts of lovers with ecstasy and of devotees with prayer . 
They lay quietly side by side he fell into a profound sleep . 
Soon he began to snore , a deafening clamor that set some loose object in the dark part of the room to vibrating with a tapping sound . 
Susan stealthily raised herself upon her elbow , looked at him . 
There was neither horror nor fear in her haggard face but only eagerness to be sure he would not awaken . 
She , inch by inch , more softly than a cat , climbed over the low footboard , was standing on the floor . 
One silent step at a time , with eyes never from his face so clear in the moonlight , she made her way toward the door . 
The snoring stopped and her heart stopped with it . 
He gasped , gurgled , gave a snort , and sat up . 
Then he saw her near the door . 
Hello whar ye goin' ? I thought I'd undress , she lied , calmly and smoothly . 
She stood in the darkness , making now and then a faint sound suggestive of undressing . 
The snoring began again soft , then deep , then the steady , uproarious intake with the fierce whistling exhalation . 
She went into the sitting room , felt round in the darkness , swift and noiseless . 
On the sofa she found her bundle , tore it open . 
By feeling alone she snatched her sailor hat , a few handkerchiefs , two stockings , a collar her fingers chanced upon and a toothbrush . 
She darted to the front door , was outside , was gliding down the path , out through the gate into the road . 
To the left would be the way she had come . 
For a few hundred yards the road lay between open fields . 
But after that it entered a wood . 
And in that dimness she felt the first beginnings of a sense of freedom . 
Half a mile and open fields again , with a small house on the right , a road southeastward on the left . 
That would be away from her Uncle Zeke's and also away from Sutherland , which lay twenty miles to the southwest . 
When she would be followed Jeb would not think of this direction until he had exhausted the other two . 
She walked , she ran , she rested she walked and ran and walked again . 
She was on the verge of collapse . 
Her skin , the inside of her mouth , were hot and dry . 
A terrible pain came in her side came and went came and stayed . 
She had passed turning after turning , to the right , to the left crossroads leading away in all directions . 
She had kept to the main road because she did not wish to lose time , perhaps return upon her path , in the confusion of the darkness . 
Now she began to look about her at the country . 
It was still the hills as round Zeke Warham's the hills of southeastern Indiana . 
But they were steeper and higher , for she was moving toward the river . 
There was less open ground , more and denser undergrowth and forest . 
She felt that she was in a wilderness , was safe . 
Night still lay too thick upon the landscape for her to distinguish anything but outlines . 
She sat down on the ruined and crumbling panel of a zigzag fence to rest and to wait for light . 
She listened a profound hush . 
She was alone , all alone . 
How far had she come ? She could not guess but she knew that she had done well . 
She would have been amazed if she had known how well . 
All the years of her life , thanks to Mrs. Warham's good sense about health , she had been steadily adding to the vitality and strength that were hers by inheritance . 
Thus , the response to this first demand upon them had been almost inevitable . 
It augured well for the future , if the future should draw her into hardships . 
She was supporting her head upon her hands , her elbows upon her knees . 
Her eyes closed , her head nodded she fought against the impulse , but she slept . 
When she straightened up with a start it was broad day . 
The birds must have finished their morning song , for there was only happy , comfortable chirping in the branches above her . 
Her legs , her whole body , ached and her feet were burning and blistered . 
But she struck out resolutely . 
After she had gone halfway down a long steep hill , she had to turn back because she had left her only possessions . 
It was a weary climb , and her heart quaked with terror . 
But no one appeared , and at last she was once more at the ruins of the fence panel . 
There lay her sailor hat , the handkerchiefs , wrapped round the toothbrush , the collar and two stockings , one black , the other brown . 
And where was her purse ? Not there , certainly . 
She glanced round in swift alarm . 
Yet she had been absolutely sure she had taken her purse from the sitting room table when she came upon it , feeling about in the dark . 
She had forgotten it she was without a cent ! But she had no time to waste in self reproaches or forebodings . 
Though the stockings would be of no use to her , she took them along because to leave them was to leave a trail . 
She hastened down the hill . 
At the bottom ran a deep creek without a bridge . 
The road was now a mere cowpath which only the stoutest vehicles or a horseman would adventure . 
To her left ran an even wilder trail , following the downward course of the creek . 
She turned out of the road , entered the trail . 
She came to a place where the bowlders over which the creek foamed and splashed as it hurried southeastward were big and numerous enough to make a crossing . 
She took it , went slowly on down the other bank . 
There was no sign of human intrusion . 
Steeply on either side rose a hill , strewn with huge bowlders , many of them large as large houses . 
The sun filtered through the foliage to make a bright pattern upon the carpet of last year's leaves . 
The birds twittered and chirped the creek hummed its drowsy , soothing melody . 
At once she thought how refreshed she would be if she could bathe in those cool waters . 
She looked round , stepped in between the bowlders . 
She peered out she listened . 
She was safe she drew back into her little inclosure . 
There was a small dry shelf of rock . 
She hurried off her clothes , stood a moment in the delicious warmth of the sunshine , stepped into the pool . 
She would have liked to splash about but she dared make no sound that could be heard above the noise of the water . 
Luckily the creek was just there rather loud , as it was expressing its extreme annoyance over the stolid impudence of the interrupting bowlders . 
While she was waiting for the sun to dry her she looked at her underclothes . 
She simply could not put them on as they were . 
She knelt at the edge of the shelf and rinsed them out as well as she could . 
Then she spread them on the thick tufts of overhanging fern where the hot sun would get full swing at them . 
The brown stocking of the two mismates she had brought along almost matched the pair she was wearing . 
As there was a hole in the toe of one of them , she discarded it , and so had one fresh stocking . 
She dried her feet thoroughly with the stocking she was discarding . 
Then she put her corsets and her dress directly upon her body . 
She could not afford to wait until the underclothes dried she would carry them until she found for herself a more remote and better hiding place where she could await nightfall . 
She stuffed the stocking with the hole deep into a cleft in the rock and laid a small stone upon it so that it was concealed . 
The up piling horrors of those two days and their hideous climax seemed a dream which the sun had scattered . 
Hopefully ! That blessed inexperience and sheer imagination of youth enabling it to hope in a large , vague way when to hope for any definite and real thing would be impossible . 
She cleaned her tan low shoes with branches of fern and grass , put them on . 
It is impossible to account for the peculiarities of physical vanity . 
Probably no one was ever born who had not physical vanity of some kind Susan's was her feet and ankles . 
Not her eyes , nor her hair , nor her contour , nor her skin , nor her figure , though any or all of these might well have been her pleasure . 
Of them she never thought in the way of pride or vanity . 
But of her feet and ankles she was both proud and vain in a reserved , wholly unobtrusive way , be it said , so quietly that she had passed unsuspected . 
There was reason for this shy , secret self satisfaction , so amusing in one otherwise self unconscious . 
Her feet were beautifully formed and the curves of her instep and ankle were beautiful . 
She gave more attention now to the look of her shoes and of her stockings than to all the rest of this difficult woodland toilet . 
She then put on the sailor hat , fastened the collar to her garter , slipped the handkerchiefs into the legs of her stockings . 
Carrying her underclothes , ready to roll them into a ball should she meet anyone , she resumed her journey into that rocky wilderness . 
Compared with what her lot had been until such a few brief days before , this lot of friendless wanderer in the wilderness was dark indeed . 
But she was comparing it with the monstrous dream from which it was the awakening . 
She was almost happy and madly hungry . 
She dragged herself upward the fifty or sixty feet , glad of the difficulties because they would make any pursuer feel certain she had not gone that way . 
After perhaps an hour she came upon a flat surface where soil had formed , where grass and wild flowers and several little trees gave shade and a place to sleep . 
She drew back hastily , ready to cry with vexation . 
She dropped to all fours in the tall grass and moved cautiously toward the edge . 
Flat upon her breast , she worked her way to the edge and looked down . 
A faintly lined path led from the house through a gate in a zigzag fence and up to the base of her fortress . 
The rock had so crumbled on that side that a sort of path extended clear up to the top . 
But her alarm quieted somewhat when she noted how the path was grass grown . 
As nearly as she could judge it was about five o'clock . 
So that smoke meant breakfast ! Her eyes fixed hungrily upon the thin column of violet vapor mounting straight into the still morning air . 
When smoke rose in that fashion , she remembered , it was sure sign of clear weather . 
And then the thought came , What if it had been raining ! She simply could not have got away . 
As she interestedly watched the little house and its yard she saw hurrying through the burdock and dog fennel toward the base of her rock a determined looking hen . 
Susan laughed silently , it was so obvious that the hen was on a pressing and secret business errand . 
But almost immediately her attention was distracted to observing the movements of a human being she could obscurely make out through one of the windows just back of the chimney . 
Soon she saw that it was a woman , cleaning up a kitchen after breakfast the early breakfast of the farmhouse in summer . 
What had they had for breakfast ? She sniffed the air . 
I think I can smell ham and cornbread , she said aloud , and laughed , partly at the absurdity of her fancy , chiefly at the idea of such attractive food . 
She aggravated her hunger by letting her imagination loose upon the glorious possibilities . 
A stealthy fluttering brought her glance back to the point where the hen had disappeared . 
Now , what was she up to ? wondered Susan , and the answer came to her . 
She was delighted to find that it made the ascent through a wide cleft and not along the outside . 
She let herself down cautiously as the footway was crumbling and rotten and slippery with grass . 
At the lower end of the cleft she peered out . 
Trees and bushes plenty of them , a thick shield between her and the valleys . 
She moved slowly downward a misstep might send her through the boughs to the hillside forty feet below . 
She pushed the ferns aside . 
There was the nest , the length of her forearm into the dim seclusion of a deep hole . 
She felt round , found the egg that was warm . 
And as she drew it out she laughed softly and said half aloud Breakfast is ready ! No , not quite ready . 
Thus ensconced , she had free hands and she proceeded to remove the thin shell of the egg piece by piece . 
She had difficulty in restraining herself until the end . 
At last she put the whole egg into her mouth . 
And never had she tasted anything so good . 
But one egg was only an appetizer . 
She was not sure , but the inside seemed muddy . 
She laid it to one side , tried another . 
It was clear and she ate it as she had eaten the first . 
She laid aside the third , the fourth , and the fifth . 
The sixth seemed all right but was not . 
Fortunately she had not been certain enough to feel justified in putting the whole egg into her mouth before tasting it . 
As she did not wish to risk another descent , she continued to sort out the eggs . 
She found four that were , or seemed to be , all right . 
The thirteen that looked doubtful or worse when tested by the light she restored with the greatest care . 
It was an interesting illustration of the rare quality of consideration which at that period of her life dominated her character . 
She put the four eggs in the bosom of her blouse and climbed up to her eyrie . 
All at once she felt the delicious languor of body and mind which is Nature's forewarning that she is about to put us to sleep , whether we will or no . 
She lost all anxiety about safety , looked hastily around for a bed . 
She found just the place in a corner of the little tableland where the grass grew tall and thick . 
She took from her bosom the four eggs her dinner and supper and put them between the roots of a tree with a cover of broad leaves over them to keep them cool . 
She pulled grass to make a pillow , took off her collar and laid herself down to sleep . 
You would have said never a care , much less a sorrow , had shadowed her dawning life . 
When she awoke , beautifully rested , her eyes clear and soft , the shadows which had been long toward the southwest were long , though not so long , toward the southeast . 
She crawled through the grass to the edge of the rock and looked out through the screening leaves of the dense undergrowth . 
There was no smoke from the chimney of the house . 
The woman , in a blue calico , was sitting on the back doorstep knitting . 
Farther away , in fields here and there , a few men not a dozen in all were at work . 
It was a serene and lovely panorama of summer and country . 
Last of all her eyes sought the glimpse of distant river . 
She ate two of her four eggs , put on the underclothes which were now thoroughly sun dried , shook out and rebraided her hair . 
Then she cast about for some way to pass the time . 
However , she found a great many wild flowers and gathered a huge bouquet of the audacious colors of nature's gardens , so common yet so effective . 
She did a little botanizing anything to occupy her mind and keep it from the ugly visions and fears . 
But all too soon she had exhausted the resources of her hiding place . 
She looked down into the valley to the north the valley through which she had come . 
It had seemed huge a brief experience of freedom , a few hours between her and the night's horrors and terrors , and it had shrunk to a tiny prison cell . 
The river ! She was about to get the two remaining eggs and abandon her stronghold when it occurred to her that she would do well to take a last look all around . 
She went back to the side of the rock facing the house . 
The woman had suspended knitting and was gazing intently across the hollow to the west , where the road from the north entered the landscape . 
Susan turned her eyes in that direction . 
Two horsemen at a gallop were moving southward . 
The road dipped into the hollow . 
the galloping horsemen disappeared with it . 
Susan shifted her gaze to the point on the brow of the hill where the road reappeared . 
She was quivering in every nerve . 
When they came into view again she would know . 
The place she was watching swam before her eyes . 
Suddenly the two , still at a gallop , rose upon the crest of the hill . 
Jeb and her Uncle Zeke ! Her vision cleared , her nerve steadied . 
They did not draw rein until they were at the road gate of the little house . 
The woman rose , put down her knitting in the seat of her stiff , rush bottomed rocker , advanced to the fence . 
The air was still , but Susan could not hear a sound , though she craned forward and strained her ears to the uttermost . 
Zeke Warham turned his horse and began to ride slowly away . 
He got as far as the brow of the hill , with Jeb still in the gateway , hesitating . 
Then Susan heard Hold on , Mr. Warham . 
Warham halted his horse , Jeb remounted and joined him . 
As the woman returned toward the back doorstep , the two men rode at a walk down into the hollow . 
When they reappeared it was on the road by which they had come . 
And the girl knew the pursuit in that direction the right direction was over . 
Trembling and with a fluttering in her breast like the flapping of a bird's wings , she sank to the ground . 
Presently she burst into a passion of tears . 
Without knowing why , she tore off the wedding ring which until then she had forgotten , and flung it out among the treetops . 
A few minutes , and she dried her eyes and stood up . 
The two horsemen were leaving the landscape at the point at which they had entered it . 
The girl would not have known , would have been frightened by , her own face had she seen it as she watched them go out of her sight out of her life . 
CHAPTER XI SHE felt free to go now . 
She walked toward the place where she had left the eggs . 
It was on the side of the rock overlooking the creek . 
As she knelt to remove the leaves , she heard from far below a man's voice singing . 
She leaned forward and glanced down at the creek . 
In a moment appeared a young man with a fishing rod and a bag slung over his shoulder . 
His gray and white striped flannel trousers were rolled to his knees . 
His fair skin and the fair hair waving about his forehead were exposed by the flapping brimmed straw hat set upon the back of his head . 
His voice , a strong and manly tenor , was sending up those steeps a song she had never heard before a song in Italian . 
She had not seen what he looked like when she remembered herself and hastily fell back from view . 
She dropped to the grass and crawled out toward the ledge . 
When she showed her face it so happened that he was looking straight at her . 
That you , Nell ? Susan drew back , her blood in a tumult . 
From below , after a brief silence , came a burst of laughter . 
She waited a long time , then through a shield of bunches of grass looked again . 
The young man was gone . 
She wished that he had resumed his song , for she thought she had never heard one so beautiful . 
The straw hat with the flapping brim was just lifting above the edge of the rock at the opposite side , where the path was . 
She could not escape the shelf offered no hiding place . 
Now the young man was stepping to the level , panting loudly . 
Gee , what a climb for a hot day ! he cried . 
Where are you ? With that he was looking at Susan , less than twenty yards away and drawn up defiantly . 
He stared , took off his hat . 
He had close cropped wavy hair and eyes as gray as Susan's own , but it was a blue gray instead of violet . 
His skin was fair , too , and his expression intelligent and sympathetic . 
In spite of his hat , and his blue cotton shirt , and trousers rolled high on bare sunburned legs , there was nothing of the yokel about him . 
I beg your pardon , he exclaimed half humorously . 
I thought it was my cousin Nell . 
No , said Susan , disarmed by his courtesy and by the frank engaging manner of it . 
I didn't mean to intrude . 
He showed white teeth in a broad smile . 
I see from your face that this is your private domain . 
Oh , no not at all , stammered Susan . 
Yes , I insist , replied he . 
Will you let me stay and rest a minute ? I ran round the rock and climbed pretty fast . 
Yes do , said Susan . 
The young man sat on the grass near where he had appeared , and crossed his long legs . 
The girl , much embarrassed , looked uneasily about . 
Perhaps you'd sit , too ? suggested he , after eyeing her in a friendly way that could not cause offense and somehow did not cause any great uneasiness . 
Susan hesitated , went to the shadow of a little tree not far from him . 
He was fanning his flushed face with his hat . 
The collar of his shirt was open below , where the tan ended abruptly , his skin was beautifully white . 
Now that she had been discovered , it was as well to be pleasant , she reasoned . 
It's a fine day , she observed with a grown up gravity that much amused him . 
Not for fishing , said he . 
You are a stranger in these parts ? Susan colored and a look of terror flitted into her eyes . 
The young man had all he could do to conceal his amusement . 
Susan flushed deeply again , not because she saw his expression , for she was not looking at him , but because her remark seemed to her absurd and likely to rouse suspicion . 
I suppose you came up here to see the view , said the man . 
You're not visiting down Brooksburg way , by any chance ? No , replied Susan , rather composedly and determined to change the subject . 
What was that song I heard you singing ? Oh you heard , did you ? laughed he . 
It's the Duke's song from Rigoletto . 
That's an opera , isn't it like Trovatore' ? Yes an Italian opera . 
It was evident that she longed to ask him to sing it . 
She felt at ease with him he was so unaffected and simple , was one of those people who seem to be at home wherever they are . 
Do you sing ? he inquired . 
Not really , replied she . 
Neither do I. So if you'll sing to me , I'll sing to you . 
Susan looked round in alarm . 
Oh , dear , no please don't , she cried . 
Why not ? he asked curiously . 
There isn't a soul about . 
I know but really , you mustn't . 
Very well , said he , seeing that her nervousness was not at all from being asked to sing . 
They sat quietly , she gazing off at the horizon , he fanning himself and studying her lovely young face . 
He broke the long silence . 
I'm a newspaper man from Cincinnati . 
I'm on the Commercial there . 
My father's Clayton Spenser , down at Brooksburg he pointed to the southeast beyond that hill there , on the river . 
I'm here on my vacation . 
And he halted , looking at her expectantly . 
It seemed to her that there was in courtesy no escape without a return biographical sketch . 
She hung her head , twisted her tapering fingers in her lap , and looked childishly embarrassed and unhappy . 
Another long silence again he broke it . 
You'll pardon my saying so , but you're very young , aren't you ? Not so so terribly young . 
I'm almost seventeen , replied she , glancing this way and that , as if thinking of flight . 
You look like a child , yet you don't , he went on , and his frank , honest voice calmed her . 
You've had some painful experience , I'd say . 
She nodded , her eyes down . 
A pause , then he Honest , now aren't you running away ? She lifted her eyes to his piteously . 
Please don't ask me , she said . 
Lots of rough stretches in the road . 
I've struck several and I've always been glad when somebOdy has given me a lift . 
And I want to pass it on if you'll let me . 
It's something we owe each other don't you think ? The words were fine enough but it was the voice in which he said them that went to her heart . 
She covered her face with her hands and released her pent emotions . 
He took a package of tobacco and a sheaf of papers from his trousers pocket , rolled and lighted a cigarette . 
After a while she dried her eyes , looked at him shamefacedly . 
But he was all understanding and sympathy . 
Now you feel better , don't you ? Much , said she . 
I guess I'm more upset than I let myself realize . 
Sorry you left home ? I haven't any home , answered she simply . 
And I wouldn't go back alive to the place I came from . 
There was a quality in the energy she put into her words that made him thoughtful . 
He counseled with the end of his cigarette . 
Finally he inquired Where are you bound for ? I don't know exactly , confessed she , as if it were a small matter . 
I see you haven't the faintest notion what you're up against . 
Oh , I'll get along . 
I'm strong , and I can learn . 
He looked at her critically and rather sadly . 
Yes you are strong , said he . 
But I wonder if you're strong enough . 
I never was sick in my life . 
I'm not sure I know just what I do mean . 
Is it very hard to get to Chicago ? inquired she . 
It's easier to get to Cincinnati . 
She shook her head positively . 
It wouldn't do for me to go there . 
Oh , you come from Cincinnati ? No but I I've been there . 
Oh , they caught you and brought you back ? She nodded . 
This young man must be very smart to understand so quickly . 
How much money have you got ? he asked abruptly . 
But his fear that she would think him impertinent came of an underestimate of her innocence . 
I haven't got any , replied she . 
It had thirty dollars in it . 
At once he recognized the absolute child only utter inexperience of the world could speak of so small a sum so respectfully . 
I don't understand at all , said he . 
How long have you been here ? All day . 
I got here early this morning . 
And you haven't had anything to eat ! Oh , yes ! I found some eggs . 
Two eggs and no money and no friends and a woman . 
Yet she was facing the future hopefully ! He smiled , with tears in his eyes . 
You mustn't tell anybody you saw me , she went on . 
No matter what they say , don't think you ought to tell on me . 
He looked at her , she at him . 
When he had satisfied himself he smiled most reassuringly . 
I'll not , was his answer , and now she knew she could trust him . 
She drew a breath of relief , and went on as if talking with an old friend . 
I've got to get a long ways from here . 
As soon as it's dark I'm going . 
Where ? Toward the river . 
The river ? What's there ? I don't know , said she triumphantly . 
Aren't you afraid ? he asked . 
Of what ? she inquired calmly . 
It was the mere unconscious audacity of ignorance , yet he saw in her now not fancied he saw , but saw a certain strength of soul , both courage and tenacity . 
No , she might suffer , sink but she would die fighting , and she would not be afraid . 
And he admired and envied her . 
Oh , I'll get along somehow , she assured him in the same self reliant tone . 
Suddenly she felt it would no longer give her the horrors to speak of what she had been through . 
I'm not very old , said she , and hers was the face of a woman now . 
But I've learned a great deal . 
You are sure you are not making a mistake in in running away ? I couldn't do anything else , replied she . 
I'm all alone in the world . 
There's no one except I hadn't done anything , and they said I had disgraced them and they Her voice faltered , her eyes sank , the color flooded into her face . 
They gave me to a man and he I had hardly seen him before he She tried but could not pronounce the dreadful word . 
Married , you mean ? said the young man gently . 
So strange , so startling , so moving was the expression of her face that he could not speak for a moment . 
A chill crept over him as he watched her wide eyes gazing into vacancy . 
What vision of horror was she seeing , he wondered . 
To rouse her he spoke the first words he could assemble When was this ? The vision seemed slowly to fade and she looked at him in astonishment . 
Why , it was last night ! she said , as if dazed by the discovery . 
Only last night ! Last night ! Then you haven't got far . 
And I'm not afraid of anything except of being taken back . 
But you don't realize what may be probably is waiting for you at the river and beyond . 
Nothing could be so bad , said she . 
The words were nothing , but the tone and the expression that accompanied them somehow convinced him beyond a doubt . 
You'll let me help you ? She debated . 
You might bring me something to eat mightn't you ? The eggs'll do for supper . 
I don't want to be seen till I get a long ways off . 
Yes , I'll bring you something to eat . 
He took a knockabout watch from the breast pocket of his shirt . 
I've got three miles to walk . 
I'll ride back and hitch the horse down the creek a little ways down , so it won't attract attention to your place up here . 
I'll be back in about an hour and a half . 
Maybe I'll think of something that'll help . 
Can I bring you anything else ? No. That is I'd like a little piece of soap . 
And a towel ? he suggested . 
I could take care of a towel , agreed she . 
I'll send it back to you when I get settled . 
Good heavens ! He laughed at her simplicity . 
What an honest child you are ! He put out his hand , and she took it with charming friendliness . 
I'm so glad you caught me , said she . 
Then , apologetically , I don't want to be any trouble . 
I hate to be troublesome . 
I've never let anybody wait on me . 
I don't know when I've had as much pleasure as this is giving me . 
And he made a bow that hid its seriousness behind a smile of good humored raillery . 
She watched him descend with a sinking heart . 
The rock the world her life , seemed empty now . 
He had reminded her that there were human beings with good hearts . 
But perhaps if he knew , his kindness would turn also . 
No , she decided not . 
Men like him , women like Aunt Sallie they did not believe those dreadful , wicked ideas that people said God had ordained . 
Still if he knew about her birth branded outcast he might change . 
But she was sure they would welcome her , and give her a chance . 
No wonder her uncles could treat her so . 
They were men who had married . 
Afar off she heard the manly voice singing the song from Rigoletto . 
She sprang up and listened , with eyes softly shining and head a little on one side . 
The song ended her heart beat fast . 
It was not many minutes before she , watching at the end of the path , saw him appear at the bottom of the huge cleft . 
And the look in his eyes , the merry smile about his expressive mouth , delighted her . 
I'm so glad to see you ! she cried . 
Over his shoulder was flung his fishing bag , and it bulged . 
Don't be scared by the size of my pack , he called up , as he climbed . 
We're going to have supper together if you'll let me stay . 
Then you can take as much or as little as you like of what's left . 
Arrived at the top , he halted for a long breath . 
They stood facing each other . 
My , what a tall girl you are for your age ! said he admiringly . 
She laughed up at him . 
I'll be as tall as you when I get my growth . 
She was so lovely that he could scarcely refrain from telling her so . 
It seemed to him , however , it would be taking an unfair advantage to say that sort of thing when she was in a way at his mercy . 
Where shall we spread the table ? said he . 
I'm hungry as the horseleech's daughter . 
And you why , you must be starved . 
I'm afraid I didn't bring what you like . 
But I did the best I could . 
I raided the pantry , took everything that was portable . 
He had set down the bag and had loosened its strings . 
First he took out a tablecloth . 
Gracious ! How stylish we shall be ! I didn't bring napkins . 
We can use the corners of the cloth . 
He had two knives , two forks , and a big spoon rolled up in the cloth , and a saltcellar . 
Now , here's my triumph ! he cried , drawing from the bag a pair of roasted chickens . 
Next came a jar of quince jelly next , a paper bag with cold potatoes and cold string beans in it . 
Then he fished out a huge square of cornbread and a loaf of salt rising bread , a pound of butter What will your folks say ? exclaimed she , in dismay . 
They always have thought I was crazy , ever since I went to college and then to the city instead of farming . 
And out of the bag came a big glass jar of milk . 
I forgot to bring a glass ! he apologized . 
Then he suspended unpacking to open the jar . 
Why , you must be half dead with thirst , up here all day with not a drop of water . 
And he held out the jar to her . 
Drink hearty ! he cried . 
The milk was rich and cold she drank nearly a fourth of it before she could wrest the jar away from her lips . 
My , but that was good ! she remarked . 
He had enjoyed watching her drink . 
Surely you haven't got anything else in that bag ? Not much , replied he . 
Here's a towel , wrapped round the soap . 
And here are three cakes of chocolate . 
You could live four or five days on them , if you were put to it . 
So whatever else you leave , don't leave them . 
And Oh , yes , here's a calico slip and a sunbonnet , and a paper of pins . 
What are they for ? I thought you might put them on the slip over your dress and you wouldn't look quite so so out of place if anybody should see you . 
What a fine idea ! cried Susan , shaking out the slip delightedly . 
He was spreading the supper on the tablecloth . 
He carved one of the chickens , opened the jelly , placed the bread and vegetables and butter . 
And he set her an example she was not slow to follow . 
The sun had slipped down behind the hills of the northwest horizon . 
The birds were tuning for their evening song . 
A breeze sprang up and coquetted with the strays of her wavy dark hair . 
They had chosen the center of the grassy platform for their banquet thus , from where they sat only the tops of trees and the sky were to be seen . 
And after they had finished she leaned on her elbow and listened while he , smoking his cigarette , told her of his life as a newspaper man in Cincinnati . 
The twilight faded into dusk , the dusk into a scarlet darkness . 
When the moon comes up we'll start , said he . 
You can ride behind me on the horse part of the way , anyhow . 
The shadow of the parting , the ending of this happiness , fell upon her . 
How lonely it would be when he was gone ! I haven't told you my name , she said . 
I've told you mine Roderick Spenser with an s , not a c . 
I remember , said she . 
What was it before He halted . 
Before what ? His silence set her to thinking . 
Oh ! she exclaimed , in a tone that made him curse his stupidity in reminding her . 
My name's Susan Lenox and always will be . 
It was my mother's name . 
She hesitated , decided for frankness at any cost , for his kindness forbade her to deceive him in any way . 
Proudly , My mother never let any man marry her . 
They say she was disgraced , but I understand now . 
She wouldn't stoop to let any man marry her . 
Spenser puzzled over this , but could make nothing of it . 
He felt that he ought not to inquire further . 
He saw her anxious eyes , her expression of one keyed up and waiting for a verdict . 
I'd have only to look at you to know your mother was a fine woman , said he . 
Then , to escape from the neighborhood of the dangerous riddle , Now , about your your going , he began . 
I've been thinking what to do . 
You'll help me ? said she , to dispel her last doubt a very faint doubt , for his words and his way of uttering them had dispelled her real anxiety . 
Help you ? cried he heartily . 
I've got a scheme to propose to you . 
You say you can't take the mail boat ? They know me . 
You trust me don't you ? Indeed I do . 
Now listen to me as if I were your brother . 
I'm going to take you to Cincinnati with me . 
I'm going to put you in my boarding house as my sister . 
And I'm going to get you a position . 
Then you can start in for yourself . 
But that'll be a great lot of trouble , won't it ? Not any more than friends of mine took for me when I was starting out . 
Then , as she continued silent , What are you thinking ? I can't see your face in this starlight . 
I was thinking how good you are , she said simply . 
I'm not often accused of that , he replied . 
I'm like most people a mixture of good and bad and not very strong either way . 
I'm afraid I'm mostly impulse that winks out . 
But the question is , how to get you to Cincinnati . 
It's simply impossible for me to go tonight . 
I can't take you home for the night . 
I don't trust my people . 
They'd not think I was good or you , either . 
And while usually they'd be right both ways this is an exception . 
This idea of an exception seemed to amuse him . 
He went on , I don't dare leave you at any farmhouse in the neighborhood . 
If I did , you could be traced . 
No no , she cried , alarmed at the very suggestion . 
I mustn't be seen by anybody . 
We'll go straight to the river , and I'll get a boat and row you across to Kentucky over to Carrollton . 
I can leave you No not Carrollton , she interrupted . 
My uncle sells goods there , and they know him . 
And if anything is in the Sutherland papers about me , why , they'd know . 
Not with you in that slip and sunbonnet . 
I'll make up a story about our wagon breaking down and that I've got to walk back into the hills to get another before we can go on . 
And it's the only plan that's at all possible . 
Obviously he was right but she would not consent . 
By adroit questioning he found that her objection was dislike of being so much trouble to him . 
That's too ridiculous , cried he . 
Why , I wouldn't have missed this adventure for anything in the world . 
His manner was convincing enough , but she did not give in until moonrise came without her having thought of any other plan . 
He was to be Bob Peters , she his sister Kate , and they were to hail from a farm in the Kentucky hills back of Milton . 
After half an hour they were safely at the base of the rock they skirted it , went down to the creek , found the horse tied where he had left it . 
After a while he asked Do you ever think of the stage ? I've never seen a real stage play , said she . 
But I want to and I will , the first chance I get . 
It's one of my dreams to write plays , he went on . 
Susan's fancy instantly winged along this fascinating route . 
I've given recitations at school , and in the plays we used to have they let me take the best parts that is until until a year or so ago . 
He noted the hesitation , had an instinct against asking why there had come a time when she no longer got good parts . 
I'm sure you could learn to act , declared he . 
And you'll be sure of it , too , after you've seen the people who do it . 
Oh , I don't believe I could , said she , in rebuke to her own mounting self confidence . 
Then , suddenly remembering her birth brand of shame and overwhelmed by it , No , I can't hope to be to be anything much . 
I know how you feel , replied he , all unaware of the real reason for this deep humility . 
When I first struck town I felt that way . 
It seemed to me I couldn't hope ever to line up with the clever people they had there . 
But I soon saw there was nothing in that idea . 
The fact is , everywhere in the world there's a lot more things to do than people who can do them . 
Most of those who get to the top where did they start ? Where we're starting . 
She was immensely flattered by that we and grateful for it . 
But she held to her original opinion . 
There wouldn't be a chance for me , said she . 
Oh , I understand , said he and he fancied he did . 
He laughed gayly at the idea that in the theater anyone would care who she was what kind of past she had had or present either , for that matter . 
Said he , You needn't worry . 
She thrilled , and her heart beat wildly . 
In a strangely quiet , intense voice , she said I want to try . 
I'm sure I'll get along there . 
I'll work Oh , so hard . 
I'll do anything ! That's the talk , cried he . 
You've got the stuff in you . 
She said little the rest of the journey . 
Her mind was busy with the idea he had by merest accident given her . 
If he could have looked in upon her thoughts , he would have been amazed and not a little alarmed by the ferment he had set up . 
Where they reached the river the bank was mud and thick willows , the haunt of incredible armies of mosquitoes . 
It's a mystery to me , cried he , why these fiends live in lonely places far away from blood , when they're so mad about it . 
After some searching he found a clear stretch of sandy gravel where she would be not too uncomfortable while he was gone for a boat . 
He left the horse with her and walked upstream in the direction of Brooksburg . 
But he was alarmed for her this girl alone in that lonely darkness with light enough to make her visible to any prowler . 
About an hour after he left her he returned in a rowboat he had borrowed at the water mill . 
He hitched the horse in the deep shadow of the break in the bank . 
She got into the boat , put on the slip and the sunbonnet , put her sailor hat in the bag . 
They pushed off and he began the long hard row across and upstream . 
The moon was high now and was still near enough to its full glory to pour a flood of beautiful light upon the broad river the lovely Ohio at its loveliest part . 
Won't you sing ? he asked . 
And without hesitation she began one of the simple familiar love songs that were all the music to which the Sutherland girls had access . 
She sang softly , in a deep sweet voice , sweeter even than her speaking voice . 
She had the sunbonnet in her lap the moon shone full upon her face . 
And it seemed to him that he was in a dream there was nowhere a suggestion of reality not of its prose , not even of its poetry . 
Only in the land no waking eye has seen could such a thing be . 
He urged her , and she sang another song , and another . 
She sighed when she saw the red lantern on the Carrollton wharf and he , turning his head and seeing , echoed her sigh . 
The first chance , you must sing me that song , she said . 
From Rigoletto' ? I will . 
But it tells how fickle women are like a feather in the wind . 
They aren't all like that , though don't you think so ? Sometimes I think everybody's like a feather in the wind , replied she . 
Except those people who are where there isn't any wind . 
CHAPTER XII FOR some time Spenser had been rowing well in toward the Kentucky shore , to avoid the swift current of the Kentucky River which rushes into the Ohio at Carrollton . 
A few yards below its mouth , in the quiet stretch of backwater along shore , lay the wharf boat , little more than a landing stage . 
The hotel was but a hundred feet away , at the top of the steep levee . 
It was midnight , so everyone in the village had long been asleep . 
He had on a dirty cotton shirt and dirty cotton trousers a night dress that served equally well for the day . 
His feet were flat and thick and were hideous with corns and bunions . 
Susan had early been made a critical observer of feet by the unusual symmetry of her own . 
She had seen few feet that were fit to be seen but never , she thought , had she seen an exhibition so repellent . 
Then , discovering Susan , he growled , Beg pardon , miss . 
Roderick explained that is , told the prearranged story . 
The man looked at it through his screen of hair and beard , said , Come on , ma'am . 
Just a minute , said Roderick , and he drew Kate aside and said to her in a low tone I'll be back sometime tomorrow , and then we'll start at once . 
But to provide against everything don't be alarmed if I don't come . 
You'll know I couldn't help it . 
Susan nodded , looking at him with trustful , grateful eyes . 
And , he went on hurriedly , I'll leave this with you , to take care of . 
It's yours as much as mine . 
She saw that it was a pocketbook , instinctively put her hands behind her . 
Don't be silly , he said , with good humored impatience . 
You'll probably not need it . 
If you do , you'll need it bad . 
And you'll pay me back when you get your place . 
He caught one of her hands and put the pocketbook in it . 
As his argument was unanswerable , she did not resist further . 
She uttered not a word of thanks , but simply looked at him , her eyes swimming and about her mouth a quiver that meant a great deal in her . 
Impulsively and with flaming cheek he kissed her on the cheek . 
So long , sis , he said loudly , and strode into the night . 
Susan did not flush she paled . 
She gazed after him with some such expression as a man lost in a cave might have as he watches the flickering out of his only light . 
This way , ma'am , said the hotel man sourly , taking up the fishing bag . 
She started , followed him up the noisy stairs to a plain , neat country bedroom . 
The price of this here's one fifty a day , said he . 
We've got 'em as low as a dollar . 
I'll take a dollar one , please , said Susan . 
Well , he finally snarled , business is slack jes' now . 
Seein' as you're a lady , you kin have this here un fur a dollar . 
Oh , thank you but if the price is more The other rooms ain't fit fur a lady , said the hotel man . 
Then he grinned a very human humorous grin that straightway made him much less repulsive . 
Anyhow , them two durn boys of mine an' their cousins is asleep in 'em . 
I'd as lief rout out a nest of hornets . 
I'll leave you the candle . 
As soon as he had gone Susan put out the light , ran to the window . 
She saw the rowboat and Spenser , a black spot far out on the river , almost gone from view to the southwest . 
Hastily she lighted the candle again , stood at the window and waved a white cover she snatched from the table . 
She thought she saw one of the oars go up and flourish , but she could not be sure . 
She watched until the boat vanished in the darkness at the bend . 
She found the soap in the bag and took a slow but thorough bath in the washbowl . 
Then she unbraided her hair , combed it out as well as she could with her fingers , rubbed it thoroughly with a towel and braided it again . 
She put on the calico slip as a nightdress , knelt down to say her prayers . 
But instead of prayers there came flooding into her mind memories of where she had been last night , of the horrors , of the agonies of body and soul . 
She rose from her knees , put out the light , stood again at the window . 
The bed was coarse , but white and clean . 
She got up , partly drew on one stocking , then without taking it off tumbled over against the pillow and was asleep . 
When she came to herself again , the lay of the shadows told her it must be after twelve o'clock . 
She dressed , packed her serge suit in the bag with the sailor hat , smoothed out the pink calico slip and put it on . 
For more than a year she had worn her hair in a braid doubled upon itself and tied with a bow at the back of her neck . 
She decided that if she would part it , plait it in two braids and bring them round her head , she would look older . 
She tried this and was much pleased with the result . 
She thought the new style not only more grown up , but also more becoming . 
The pink slip , too , seemed to her a success . 
It came almost to her ankles and its strings enabled her to make it look something like a dress . 
Carrying the pink sunbonnet , down she went in search of something to eat . 
The hall was full of smoke and its air seemed greasy with the odor of frying . 
She found that dinner was about to be served . 
A girl in blue calico skirt and food smeared , sweat discolored blue jersey ushered her to one of the tables in the dining room . 
There's a gentleman comin' , said she . 
I'll set him down with you . 
He won't bite , I don't reckon , and there ain't no use mussin' up two tables . 
There was no protesting against two such arguments so Susan presently had opposite her a fattish man with long oily hair and a face like that of a fallen and dissipated preacher . 
She eyed him furtively until he caught her at it he being about the same business himself . 
Thereafter she kept her eyes steadily upon the tablecloth , patched and worn thin with much washing . 
But neither of the diners was critical , and the dinner was eaten with an enthusiasm which the best rarely inspires . 
With the prunes and dried apple pie , the stranger expanded . 
Warm day , miss , he ventured . 
Yes , it is a little warm , said Susan . 
She ventured a direct look at him . 
Above the pleasant , kindly eyes there was a brow so unusually well shaped that it arrested even her young and untrained attention . 
Whatever the man's character or station , there could be no question as to his intelligence . 
The flies are very bothersome , continued he . 
There the flies have to be picked off , and they're big , and they bite take a piece right out of you . 
The natives used to laugh at us when we were in the ring and would try to brush , em away . 
Susan said nothing but she had listened politely . 
The man went on amusing himself with his own conversation . 
I was in the show business then . 
Clown was my line , but I was rotten at it simply rotten . 
I'm still in the show business different line , though . 
I've got a show of my own . 
If you're going to be in town perhaps you'll come to see us tonight . 
Our boat's anchored down next to the wharf . 
You can see it from the windows . 
Come , and bring your folks . 
Thank you , said Susan she had for gotten her role and its accent . 
But I'm afraid we'll not be here . 
There was an expression in the stranger's face a puzzled , curious expression , not impertinent , rather covert an expression that made her uneasy . 
It warned her that this man saw she was not what she seemed to be , that he was trying to peer into her secret . 
His brown eyes were kind enough , but alarmingly keen . 
With only half her pie eaten , she excused herself and hastened to her room . 
At the threshold she remembered the pocketbook Spenser had given her . 
She had left it by the fishing bag on the table . 
There was the bag but not the pocketbook . 
I must have put it in the bag , she said aloud , and the sound and the tone of her voice frightened her . 
She searched the bag , then the room which had not yet been straightened up . 
She shook out the bed covers , looked in all the drawers , under the bed , went over the contents of the bag again . 
The pocketbook was gone stolen . 
How could she face him ! What would he think of her , so untrustworthy ! What a return for his kindness ! She felt weak so weak that she lay down . 
The food she had taken turned to poison and her head ached fiercely . 
The slovenly girl came to do the room Susan sent her away , sat by the window gazing out over the river and downstream . 
He would soon be here the thought made her long to fly and hide . 
He had been all generosity and this was her way of appreciating it ! They sent for her to come down to supper . 
She refused , saying she was not feeling well . 
She searched the room , the bag , again and again . 
She would rest a few minutes , then up she would spring and tear everything out . 
Then back to the window to sit and stare at the river over which the evening shadows were beginning to gather . 
Once , as she was sitting there , she happened to see the gaudily painted and decorated show boat . 
A man the stranger of the dinner table was standing on the forward end , smoking a cigar . 
She saw that he was observing her , realized he could have seen her stirring feverishly about her room . 
A woman came out of the cabin and joined him . 
As soon as his attention was distracted she closed her shutters . 
And there she sat alone , with the hours dragging their wretched minutes slowly away . 
She slept a little toward dawn for youth and health will not let the most despairing heart suffer in sleeplessness . 
Her headache went , but the misery of soul which had been a maddening pain settled down into a throbbing ache . 
She feared he would come she feared he would not come . 
The servants tried to persuade her to take breakfast . 
She could not have swallowed food she would not have dared take food for which she could not pay . 
Toward noon the servant came knocking . 
A letter for you , ma'am . 
You can go on south to the L. and N. and take a train to Cincinnati . 
When you find a boarding house send your address to me at the office . 
I'll come in a few weeks . 
I'd write more but I can't . 
You are brave and sensible , and I back you to win . 
With the unsigned letter crumpled in her hands she sat at the window with scarcely a motion until noon . 
She then went down to the show boat . 
Several people men and women were on the forward end , quarreling . 
She looked only at her acquaintance . 
His face was swollen and his eyes bloodshot , but he still wore the air of easy and patient good humor . 
She said , standing on the shore , Could I speak to you a minute ? Certainly , ma'am , replies he , lifting his dingy straw hat with gaudy , stained band . 
He came down the broad plank to the shore . 
Why , what's the matter ? This in a sympathetic tone . 
Will you lend me two dollars and take me along to work it out ? she asked . 
For the hotel bill ? he inquired , the cigar tucked away in the corner of his mouth . 
He didn't show up ? He broke his leg . 
Oh ! The tone was politely sympathetic , but incredulous . 
He eyed her critically , thoughtfully . 
Can you sing ? he finally asked . 
His hands were deep in the pockets of his baggy light trousers . 
He drew one of them out with a two dollar bill in it . 
Go and pay him and bring your things . 
We're about to push off . 
Thank you , said the girl in the same stolid way . 
She returned to the hotel , brought the bag down from her room , stood at the office desk . 
Mr. Gumpus has jes' stepped out , said she . 
Here is the money for my room . 
And Susan laid the two dollar bill on the register . 
Ain't you goin' to wait fur yer yer brother ? He's not coming , replied the girl . 
It's awful , bein' took sick away from home . 
Thank you , said Susan . 
The girl's homely , ignorant face twisted in a grin . 
But Susan did not see , would have been indifferent had she seen . 
She went down to the show boat . 
The plank had been taken in . 
Her acquaintance was waiting for her , helped her to the deck , jumped aboard himself , and was instantly busy helping to guide the boat out into mid stream . 
Susan looked back at the hotel . 
Mr. Gumpus was in the doorway , amusement in every line of his ugly face . 
Beside him stood the slovenly servant . 
She was crying the more human second thought of a heart not altogether corrupted by the sordid hardness of her lot . 
Now , said he , comfortably , as he lighted a fresh cigar , we'll float pleasantly along . 
I guess you and I had better get acquainted . 
What is your name ? Susan flushed . 
Kate Peters is the name I gave at the hotel . 
That'll do , won't it ? Never in the world ! replied he . 
You must have a good catchy name . 
Say er er He rolled his cigar slowly , looking thoughtfully toward the willows thick and green along the Indiana shore . 
Say well , say Lorna Lorna Lorna Sackville ! That's a winner . 
Lorna Sackville ! A stroke of genius ! Don't you think so ? Yes , said Susan . 
But it does , remonstrated he . 
You are an artist , now , and an artist's name should always arouse pleasing and romantic anticipations . 
It's like the odor that heralds the dish . 
You must remember , my dear , that you have stepped out of the world of dull reality into the world of ideals , of dreams . 
The sound of two harsh voices , one male , the other female , came from within the cabin oaths , reproaches . 
That's one on me eh ? Still , what I say is true or at least ought to be . 
By the way , this is the Burlingham Floating Palace of Thespians , floating temple to the histrionic art . 
I am Burlingham Robert Burlingham . 
He smiled , extended his hand . 
Glad to meet you , Miss Lorna Sackville don't forget ! She could not but reflect a smile so genuine , so good humored . 
We'll go in and meet the others your fellow stars for this is an all star aggregation . 
Over the broad entrance to the cabin was a chintz curtain strung upon a wire . 
Susan was looking into a room about thirty feet long , about twelve feet wide , and a scant six feet high . 
Across it with an aisle between were narrow wooden benches with backs . 
At the opposite end was a stage , with the curtain up and a portable stove occupying the center . 
At the stove a woman in a chemise and underskirt , with slippers on her bare feet , was toiling over several pots and pans with fork and spoon . 
At the edge of the stage , with legs swinging , sat another woman , in a blue sailor suit neither fresh nor notably clean but somehow coquettish . 
Two men in flannel shirts were seated , one on each of the front benches , with their backs to her . 
The two men turned lazily and stared at Susan , each with an arm hanging over the back of the bench . 
She had a fat face , a broad expanse of unpleasant looking , elderly bosom , big , shapeless white arms . 
Her contour was almost gone . 
Her teeth were a curious mixture of natural , gold , and porcelain . 
Miss Anstruther Miss Sackville , called Burlingham . 
Miss Sackville , Miss Violet Anstruther . 
Miss Anstruther and Susan exchanged bows Susan's timid and frightened , Miss Anstruther's accompanied by a hostile stare and a hardening of the fat , decaying face . 
Burlingham was looking at the younger woman she who sat on the edge of the little stage . 
She , too , was a blond , but her hair had taken to the chemical somewhat less reluctantly than had Miss Anstruther's , with the result that Miss Connemora's looked golden . 
Her face of the baby type must have been softly pretty at one time not so very distant . 
Now lines were coming and the hard look that is inevitable with dyed hair . 
Also her once fine teeth were rapidly going off , as half a dozen gold fillings in front proclaimed . 
At Susan's appealing look and smile Miss Connemora nodded not unfriendly . 
Oh , it's all right , he said with a wave of the hand . 
But his tone belied his words . 
He puffed twice at his cigar , then introduced the men Elbert Eshwell and Gregory Tempest two of the kind clearly if inelegantly placed by the phrase , greasy hamfats . 
Mr. Eshwell's blackdyed hair was smoothly brushed down from a central part , Mr. Tempest's iron gray hair was greasily wild a disarray of romantic ringlets . 
Eshwell was inclined to fat Tempest was gaunt and had the hollow , burning eye that bespeaks the sentimental ass . 
Now , Miss Sackville , said Burlingham , we'll go on the forward deck and canvass the situation . 
What for dinner , Vi ? Same old rot , retorted Miss Anstruther , wiping the sweat from her face and shoulders with a towel that served also as a dishcloth . 
Pork and beans potatoes peach pie . 
Cheer up , said Burlingham . 
After tomorrow we'll do better . 
That's been the cry ever since we started , snapped Violet . 
For God's sake , shut up , Vi , groaned Eshwell . 
The cabin was not quite the full width of the broad house boat . 
Along the outside , between each wall and the edge , there was room for one person to pass from forward deck to rear . 
From the cabin roof , over the rear deck , into the water extended a big rudder oar . 
Burlingham hailed him as Pat his only known name . 
But Susan had only a glance for him and no ear at all for the chaffing between him and the actor manager . 
She was gazing at the Indiana shore , at a tiny village snuggled among trees and ripened fields close to the water's edge . 
She knew it was Brooksburg . 
She remembered the long covered bridge which they had crossed Spenser and she , on the horse . 
To the north of the town , on a knoll , stood a large red brick house trimmed with white veranda and balconies far and away the most pretentious house in the landscape . 
Before the door was a horse and buggy . 
She could make out that there were several people on the front veranda , one of them a man in black the doctor , no doubt . 
Sobs choked up into her throat . 
She turned quickly away that Burlingham might not see . 
And under her breath she said , Good by , dear . 
Sit down , my dear , said he . 
And tell me you are at least eighteen and are not running away from home . 
You heard what Miss Connemora said . 
I'm not running away from home , replied Susan , blushing violently because she was evading as to the more important fact . 
I don't know anything about you , and I don't want to know , pursued Burlingham , alarmed by the evidences of a dangerous tendency to candor . 
I've no desire to have my own past dug into , and turn about's fair play . 
You came to me to get an engagement . 
You said you could sing that is , a little . 
A very little , said the girl . 
That has been our weak point lack of a ballad singer . 
Know any ballads ? Not fancy ones . 
You don't happen to know I Stood on the Bridge at Midnight' ? No Ruth sings that , replied Susan , and colored violently . 
Blue Alsatian Mountains' ? Yes . 
Nothing is of any use to the stage until it's very old . 
Audiences at theaters don't want to hear anything they don't already know by heart . 
They've come to see , not to hear . 
So it annoys them to have to try to hear . 
Do you understand that ? No , confessed Susan . 
But I'll think about it , and try to understand it . 
She thought she was showing her inability to do what was expected of her in paying back the two dollars . 
Don't bother , said Burlingham . 
Pat ! Yes , boss , said the man at the oar , without looking or removing his pipe . 
Pat tied the oar fast and went forward along the roof of the cabin . 
While he was gone Burlingham explained , A frightful souse , Pat almost equal to Eshwell and far the superior of Tempest or Vi that is , of Tempest . 
But he's steady enough for our purposes , as a rule . 
He's the pilot , the orchestra , the man of all work , the bill distributor . 
Oh , he's a wonder . 
Graduate of Trinity College , Dublin yeggman panhandler barrel house bum genius , nearly . 
Has drunk as much booze as there is water in this river Pat was back beside the handle of the oar , with a violin . 
Burlingham suggested to Susan that she'd better stand while she sang , and if you've any tendency to stage fright , remember it's your bread and butter to get through well . 
You'll not bother about your audience . 
Susan found this thought a potent strengthener then and afterward . 
Her voice was deliciously young and had the pathetic quality that is never absent from anything which has enduring charm for us . 
As her voice died away he beat his plump hands together enthusiastically . 
She'll do eh , Pat ? She'll set the hay tossers crazy ! Susan's heart was beating fast from nervousness . 
Burlingham sprang up and put his hands on her shoulders and kissed her . 
He laughed at her shrinking . 
Don't mind , my dear , he cried . 
It's one of our ways . 
She knew many other songs , but either Pat could not play them or Burlingham declared them above the head of Reub the rotter . 
Those five are quite enough , said Burlingham . 
Two regulars , two encores , with a third in case of emergency . 
After dinner Miss Anstruther and I'll fit you out with a costume . 
You'll make a hit at Sutherland tonight . 
Sutherland ! exclaimed Susan , suddenly pale . 
I can't sing there really , I can't . 
Burlingham made a significant gesture toward Pat at the oar above them , and winked at her . 
You'll not have stage fright , my dear . 
Susan understood that nothing more was to be said before Pat . 
Soon Burlingham told him to tie the oar again and retire to the cabin . 
I'll stand watch , said he . 
I want to talk business with Miss Sackville . 
When Pat had gone , Burlingham gave her a sympathetic look . 
No confidences , mind you , my dear , he warned . 
All I want to know is that it isn't stage fright that's keeping you off the program at Sutherland . 
No , replied the girl . 
I'm I'm sorry I can't begin right away to earn the money to pay you back . 
Not even in a velvet and spangle costume Low neck , short sleeves , with blond wig and paint and powder ? You'll not know yourself , my dear really . 
I couldn't , said Susan . 
I'd not be able to open my lips . 
It was evident that Burlingham was deeply disappointed . 
We were going to try to make a killing at Sutherland . 
However , let that pass . 
If you can't , you can't . 
I'm afraid you're angry with me , cried she . 
I angry ! He laughed . 
I've not been angry in ten years . 
I'm such a damn , damn fool that with all the knocks life's given me I haven't learned much . 
But at least I've learned not to get angry . 
No , I understand , my dear and will save you for the next town below . 
He leaned forward and gave her hands a fatherly pat as they lay in her lap . 
Don't give it a second thought , he said . 
We've got the whole length of the river before us . 
Susan showed her gratitude in her face better far than she could have expressed it in words . 
When she saw his eyes upon her with that look of smiling wonder in them , she said , You mustn't think I've done anything dreadful . 
I haven't really , I haven't . 
And if you had , you'd not need to hang your head in this company , my dear . 
We're all people who have lived and life isn't exactly a class meeting with the elders taking turns at praying and the organ wheezing out gospel hymns . 
No , we've all been up against it most of our lives which means we've done the best we could oftener than we've had the chance to do what we ought . 
He gave her one of his keen looks , nodded I like you . 
What do they tell oftenest when they're talking about how you were as a baby ? Susan did not puzzle over the queerness of this abrupt question . 
She fell to searching her memory diligently for an answer . 
They say I always insisted on trudging along by myself . 
Burlingham nodded , slapped his knee . 
I can believe it , he cried . 
I always ask everybody that question to see whether I've sited 'em up right . 
I rather think I hit you off to a T as you faced me at dinner yesterday in the hotel . 
Speaking of dinner let's go sit in on the one I smell . 
Thus the three men sat on the front bench with their legs thrust through between seat and back , while the three women sat in dignity and comfort on the fourth bench . 
Susan thought the dinner by no means justified Miss Anstruther's pessimism . 
It was good in itself , and the better for being in this happy go lucky way , in this happy go lucky company . 
Once they got started , all the grouchiness disappeared . 
It was their kind hearts that most impressed her their kind taking in of her whom those she loved had cast out her , the unknown stranger , helpless and ignorant . 
And what Spenser had told her about the stage and its people made her almost believe that they would not cast her out , though they knew the dreadful truth about her birth . 
Tempest told a story that was broad . 
While the others laughed , Susan gazed at him with a puzzled expression . 
She wished to be polite , to please , to enjoy . 
But what that story meant she could not fathom . 
Miss Anstruther jeered at her . 
Look at the innocent , she cried . 
Shut up , Vi , retorted Miss Connemora . 
It's no use for us to try to be anything but what we are . 
Still , let the baby alone . 
Yes let her alone , said Burlingham . 
It'll soak in soon enough , Miss Connemora went on . 
No use rubbing it in . 
What ? said Susan , thinking to show her desire to be friendly , to be one of them . 
Dirt , said Burlingham dryly . 
And don't ask any more questions . 
Susan was delighted to see them drop to the tops of the backs of the seats three berths which fitted snugly into the walls when not in use . 
She saw now that there were five others of the same kind , and that there was a contrivance of wires and curtains by which each berth could be shut off to itself . 
She had a thrilling sense of being in a kind of Swiss Family Robinson storybook come to life . 
You'll want to put it on for the arrival at Sutherland , said Mabel Connemora . 
No , replied Susan nervously . 
She saw the curious look in all their eyes at sight of that dress , so different from the calico she was wearing . 
Mabel took her out on the forward deck where there was an awning and a good breeze . 
Susan listened and absorbed as a dry sponge dropped into a pail of water . 
At her leisure she would think it all out , would understand , would learn . 
Now , tell me about your self , said Mabel when she had exhausted all the reminiscences she could recall at the moment all that were fit for a baby's ears . 
I will , some time , said Susan , who was ready for the question . 
But I can't not yet . 
It seems to me you're very innocent , said Mabel , even for a well brought up girl . 
I was well brought up , too . 
I wish to God my mother had told me a few things . 
But no not a thing . 
What do you mean ? inquired Susan . 
That set the actress to probing the girl's innocence what she knew and what she did not . 
It had been many a day since Miss Connemora had had so much pleasure . 
Well ! she finally said . 
I never would have believed it though I know these things are so . 
Now I'm going to teach you . 
Innocence may be a good thing for respectable women who are going to marry and settle down with a good husband to look after them . 
But it won't do at all not at all , my dear ! for a woman who works who has to meet men in their own world and on their own terms . 
It's hard enough to get along , if you know . 
If you don't when you're knocked down , you stay knocked down . 
Yes I want to learn , said Susan eagerly . 
Back to that sort of thing ? No , replied Susan . 
I've got nothing to go back to . 
Nonsense ! Nothing , repeated Susan in the same simple , final way . 
The ready tears sprang to Mabel's dissipated but still bright eyes . 
Susan's unconscious pathos was so touching . 
Now don't get horrified or scandalized at me . 
When you feel that way , remember that Mabel Connemora didn't make the world , but God . 
At least , so they say though personally I feel as if the devil had charge of things , and the only god was in us poor human creatures fighting to be decent . 
I tell you , men and women ain't bad not so damn bad excuse me they will slip out . 
The show boat drifted placidly down with the current of the broad Ohio . 
To make her tale vivid , Mabel illustrated it by the story of her own life from girlhood to the present hour . 
And she omitted no detail necessary to enforce the lesson in life . 
A few days before Susan would not have believed , would not have understood . 
Now she both believed and understood . 
You don't seem to be horrified , said Mabel . 
I feel somehow I feel better . 
Mabel eyed her curiously had a sense of a mystery of suffering which she dared not try to explore . 
She said Better ? That's queer . 
You don't take it at all as I thought you would . 
Said Susan I had about made up my mind it was all bad . 
I see that maybe it isn't . 
Oh , the world isn't such a bad place in lots of ways . 
You'll get a heap of fun out of it if you don't take things or yourself seriously . 
I wish to God I'd had somebody to tell me , instead of having to spell it out , a letter at a time . 
I've got just two pieces of advice to give you . 
And she stopped speaking and gazed away toward the shore with a look that seemed to be piercing the hills . 
Please do , urged Susan , when Mabel's long mood of abstraction tried her patience . 
Oh yes two pieces of advice . 
The first is , don't drink . 
There's nothing to it and it'll play hell excuse me it'll spoil your looks and your health and give you a woozy head when you most need a steady one . 
Don't drink that's the first advice . 
I won't , said Susan . 
Oh , yes , you will . 
But remember my advice all the same . 
The second is , don't sell your body to get a living , unless you've got to . 
I couldn't do that , said the girl . 
Oh , yes , you could and will . 
Don't sell your body because it seems to be the easy way to make a living . 
I know most women get their living that way . 
Oh no no , indeed ! protested Susan . 
What a child you are ! laughed Mabel . 
What's marriage but that ? . 
Believe your Aunt Betsy , it's the poorest way to make a living that ever was invented marriage or the other thing . 
Sometimes you'll be tempted to . 
You're pretty , and you'll find yourself up against it with no way out . 
You'll have to give in for a time , no doubt . 
The men run things in this world , and they'll compel it one way or another . 
But fight back to your feet again . 
If I'd taken my own advice , my name would be on every dead wall in New York in letters two feet high . 
Instead She laughed , without much bitterness . 
And why ? All because I never learned to stand alone . 
I've even supported men to have something to lean on ! How's that for a poor fool ? There Violet Anstruther called her . 
You won't take my advice , she said by way of conclusion . 
We ain't made that way . 
But don't forget what I've said . 
And when you've wobbled way off maybe it'll give you something to steer back by . 
Susan sat on there , deep in the deepest of those brown studies that had been characteristic of her from early childhood . 
Often perhaps most often abstraction means only mental fogginess . 
But Susan happened to be of those who can concentrate can think things out . 
After a few hours of recalling and reconstructing Susan Lenox understood Sutherland probably better than she would have understood it had she lived a long eventless life there . 
She felt that she could not hope to be respected , loved , married . 
She must work out her destiny along other lines . 
She understood it all , more clearly than would have been expected of her . 
And it is important to note that she faced her future without repining or self pity , without either joy or despondency . 
She would go on she would do as best she could . 
And nothing that might befall could equal what she had suffered in the throes of the casting out . 
Burlingham roused her from her long reverie . 
He evidently had come straight from his nap stocking feet , shirt open at the collar , trousers sagging and face shiny with the sweat that accumulates during sleep on a hot day . 
Round that bend ahead of us is Sutherland , said he , pointing forward . 
Up she started in alarm . 
Now , don't get fractious , cried he cheerfully . 
We'll not touch shore for an hour , at least . 
You can keep to the cabin . 
I'll see that you're not bothered . 
And this evening ? You can keep to the dressing room until the show's over and the people've gone ashore . 
And tomorrow morning , bright and early , we'll be off . 
I promised Pat a day for a drunk at Sutherland . 
He'll have to postpone it . 
I'll give him three at Jeffersonville , instead . 
Susan put on her sunbonnet as soon as the show boat rounded the bend above town . 
Thus she felt safe in staying on deck and watching the town drift by . 
She did not begin to think of going into the cabin until Pat was working the boat in toward the landing a square above the old familiar wharf boat . 
What day is this ? she asked Eshwell . 
Only Saturday ! And last Monday less than five days ago she had left this town for her Cincinnati adventure . 
She felt as if months , years , had passed . 
The town seemed strange to her , and she recalled the landmarks as if she were revisiting in age the scenes of youth . 
How small the town seemed , after Cincinnati ! And how squat ! Then She saw the cupola of the schoolhouse . 
The Burlingham Floating Palace of Thespians tied up against the float of Bill Phibbs's boathouse a privilege for which Burlingham had to pay two dollars . 
Pat went ashore with a sack of handbills to litter through the town . 
Burlingham followed , to visit the offices of the two evening newspapers and by handing them out a line of smooth talk the one art whereof he was master to get free advertising . 
Also there were groceries to buy and odds and ends of elastic , fancy crepe , paper muslin and the like for repairing the shabby costumes . 
The others remained on board , Eshwell and Tempest to guard the boat against the swarms of boys darting and swooping and chattering like a huge flock of impudent English sparrows . 
An additional and the chief reason for Burlingham's keeping the two actors close was that Eshwell was a drunkard and Tempest a gambler . 
Neither could be trusted where there was the least temptation . 
Each despised the other's vice and despised the other for being slave to it . 
Burlingham could trust Eshwell to watch Tempest , could trust Tempest to watch Eshwell . 
Susan helped Mabel with the small and early supper cold chicken and ham , fried potatoes and coffee . 
Afterward all dressed in the cabin . 
The women had to provide for a change of costumes . 
Susan was invited to remain and help . 
The making up of the faces interested her she was amazed by the transformation of Mabel into youthful loveliness , with a dairy maid's bloom in place of her pallid pastiness . 
When the two women stripped and got into their tights , Susan with polite modesty turned away . 
Violet happened to see , laughed . 
Look at the baby's shocked face , Mabel , she cried . 
It was sheer horror that held Susan's gaze upon Violet's incredible hips and thighs , violently obtruded by the close reefed corset . 
Mabel had a slender figure , the waist too short and the legs too nearly of the same girth from hip to ankle , but for all that , attractive . 
Susan had never before seen a woman in tights without any sort of skirt . 
You would show up well in those things , Violet said to her , that is , for a thin woman . 
The men don't care much for thinness . 
Not the clodhoppers and roustabouts that come to see us , retorted Mabel . 
The more a woman looks like a cow or a sow , the better they like it . 
They don't believe it's female unless it looks like what they're used to in the barnyard and the cattle pen . 
Miss Anstruther was not in the least offended . 
She paraded , jauntily switching her great hips and laughing . 
Burlingham was in a white flannel suit that looked well enough in those dim lights . 
The make up gave him an air of rakish youth . 
Eshwell had got himself into an ordinary sack suit . 
Tempest was in the tattered and dirty finery of a seventeenth century courtier . 
The paint and black made Eshwell's face fat and comic it gave Tempest distinction , made his hollow blazing eyes brilliant and large . 
The curtain was let down a gaudy smear of a garden scene in a French palace in the eighteenth century . 
Pat , the orchestra , put on a dress coat and vest and a dickey the coat had white celluloid cuffs pinned in the sleeves at the wrists . 
Through a peephole in the curtain she admired the auditorium and it did look surprisingly well by lamplight , with the smutches and faded spots on its bright paint softened or concealed . 
How many will it hold ? she asked Mabel , who was walking up and down , carrying her long train . 
A hundred and twenty comfortably , replied Miss Connemora . 
A hundred and fifty crowded . 
It has held as high as thirty dollars , but we'll be lucky if we get fifteen tonight . 
Susan glanced round at her . 
She was smoking a cigarette , handling it like a man . 
Susan's expression was so curious that Mabel laughed . 
Susan , distressed , cried I'm sorry if if I was impolite . 
Oh , you couldn't be impolite , said Mabel . 
You've got that to learn , too and mighty important it is . 
Why not ? We got out of cigarettes , but Bob bought a stock this afternoon . 
Susan turned to the peephole . 
Pat , ready to take tickets , was barking vigorously in the direction of shore , addressing a crowd which Susan of course could not see . 
And the audience straggled in young fellows and their girls , roughs from along the river front , farmers in town for a day's sport . 
Susan did not see a single familiar face , and she had supposed she knew , by sight at least , everyone in Sutherland . 
From fear lest she should see someone she knew , her mind changed to longing . 
At last she was rewarded . 
From her security she smiled at Redney as representative of all she loved in the old town . 
And now the four members of the company on the stage and in the dressing room lost their ease and contemptuous indifference . 
They had been talking sneeringly about yokels and jays and slum bums . 
They dropped all that , as there spread over them the mysterious spell of the crowd . 
As individuals the provincials in those seats were ridiculous as a mass they were an audience , an object of fear and awe . 
Mabel was almost in tears Violet talked rapidly , with excited gestures and nervous adjustments of various parts of her toilet . 
The two men paced about , Eshwell trembling , Tempest with sheer fright in his rolling eyes . 
They wet their dry lips with dry tongues . 
Each again and again asked the other anxiously how he was looking and paced away without waiting for the answer . 
dress , with many and sparkling hair and neck ornaments and rings that seemed alight . 
She bowed to the audience , pulled a little old cottage organ from under the stage and seated herself at it . 
After the overture , a pause . 
For , ladies and gentlemen , while we are pious , we are not puritan . 
The first number is a monologue , The Mad Prince , by that eminent artist , Gregory Tempest . 
He has delivered it before vast audiences amid thunders of applause . 
No wonder he looked gaunt and hollow eyed and sallow . 
The last part of the performance was Holy Land and comic pictures thrown from the rear on a sheet substituted for the drop . 
, Susan was forced to retreat to the forward deck and missed that part of the show . 
But she watched Burlingham shifting the slides and altering the forms of the lenses , and was in another way as much thrilled and spellbound as by the acting . 
She felt proud that she was permitted in so distinguished a company . 
Tempest , whom she had liked least , now filled her with admiration . 
She saw the tragedy of his life plain and sad upon his features . 
She could not look at him without her heart's contracting in an ache . 
It was not long before Mr. Tempest , who believed himself a lady killer , noted the ingenuous look in the young girl's face , and began to pose . 
And it was hardly three bites of a ham sandwich thereafter when Mabel Connemora noted Tempest's shootings of his cuffs and rumplings of his oily ringlets and rollings of his hollow eyes . 
And at the sight Miss Mabel's bright eyes became bad and her tongue shot satire at him . 
But Susan did not observe this . 
After supper they went straightway to bed . 
Burlingham drew the curtains round the berth let down for Susan . 
The others indulged in no such prudery on so hot a night . 
They put out the lamps and got ready for bed and into it by the dim light trickling in through the big rear doorway and the two small side doorways forward . 
To help on the circulation of air Pat raised the stage curtain and drop , and opened the little door forward . 
Each sleeper had a small netting suspended over him from the ceiling without that netting the dense swarms of savage mosquitoes would have made sleep impossible . 
As it was , the loud singing of these baffled thousands kept Susan awake . 
Yesterday had almost faded from her , for youth lives only in tomorrow youth in tomorrow , age in yesterday , and none of us in today which is all we really have . 
She was dreaming of her first real tomorrow , now . 
Like the soughing of the storm above the whimper of the tortured leaves the stentorian snorings of two of the sleepers resounded above the noise of the mosquitoes . 
She had hardly extended herself in her close little bed when she heard a stealthy step , saw one of her curtains drawn aside . 
Who is it ? she whispered , unsuspiciously , for she could see only a vague form darkening the space between the parted curtains . 
The answer came in a hoarse undertone Ye dainty little darling ! She sat up , struck out madly , screamed at the top of her lungs . 
The curtains fell back into place , the snoring stopped . 
Susan , all in a sweat and a shiver , lay quiet . 
Silence again , and after a few minutes the two snores resumed their bass accompaniment to the falsetto of the mosquito chorus . 
Susan thanked her and got a most refreshing bath . 
In the mirror Connemora saw her , smiled and nodded . 
You can fix your hair here , said she . 
You can use my brush . 
And when Susan was busy at the mirror , Mabel lounged on a seat near by smoking a before breakfast cigarette . 
I wish to God I had your hair , said she . 
I never did have such a wonderful crop of grass on the knoll , and the way it up and drops out in bunches every now and then sets me crazy . 
It won't be long before I'll be down to Vi's three hairs and a half . 
You haven't seen her without her wigs ? Well , don't , if you happen to be feeling a bit off . 
Who was it raised the row last night ? she inquired . 
I don't know , said Susan , her face hid by the mass of wavy hair she was brushing forward from roots to ends . 
You don't ? I guess you've got a kind of idea , though . 
No answer from the girl . 
Well , it doesn't matter . 
I'm not jealous of him a woman never is . 
It's the idea of another woman's getting away with her property , whether she wants it or not that's what sets her mad spot to humming . 
No , I don't give a a cigarette butt for that greasy bum actor . 
But I've always got to have somebody . 
The idea of his thinking you'd have him ! What peacocks men are ! Susan understood . 
The fact of this sort of thing was no longer a mystery to her . 
But the why of the fact that seemed more amazing than ever . 
Now that she had discovered that her notion of love being incorporeal was as fanciful as Santa Claus , she could not conceive why it should be at all . 
As she was bringing round the braids for the new coiffure she had adopted she said to Mabel You love him ? I ? Mabel laughed immoderately . 
You can have him , if you want him . 
Oh , no , she said . 
I suppose he's very nice and really he's quite a wonderful actor . 
But I I don't care for men . 
Mabel laughed again curt , bitter . 
Susan shook her head , with youth's positiveness . 
What's caring got to do with it ? pursued Mabel , ignoring the headshake . 
I've been about quite a bit , and I've yet to see anybody that really cared for anybody else . 
But a man needs a woman , and a woman needs a man . 
They might as well call eating loving . 
CHAPTER XIV AT breakfast Tempest was precisely as usual , and so were the others . 
Nor was there effort or any sort of pretense in this . 
We understand only that to which we are accustomed the man of peace is amazed by the veteran's nonchalance in presence of danger and horror , of wound and death . 
Susan naturally took her cue from them . 
When Tempest said something to her in the course of the careless conversation round the breakfast table , she answered and had no sense of constraint . 
And Susan unconsciously absorbed one of those lessons in the science and art of living that have decisive weight in shaping our destinies . 
For intelligent living is in large part learning to ignore the unprofitable that one may concentrate upon the profitable . 
Burlingham announced that they would cast off and float down to Bethlehem . 
There was a chorus of protests . 
Why , we ought to stay here a week ! cried Miss Anstruther . 
We certainly caught on last night . 
Didn't we take in seventeen dollars ? demanded Eshwell . 
We can't do better than that anywhere . 
Who's managing this show ? asked Burlingham in his suave but effective way . 
I think I know what I'm about . 
He met their grumblings with the utmost good humor and remained inflexible . 
Susan listened with eyes down and burning cheeks . 
She knew Burlingham was leaving the best cow unmilked , as Connemora put it , because he wished to protect her . 
She told him so when they were alone on the forward deck a little later , as the boat was floating round the bend below Sutherland . 
I've great hopes from your ballads . 
I want to get you on . 
He looked round casually , saw that no one was looking , drew a peculiarly folded copy of the Sutherland Courier from his pocket . 
Besides said he , holding out the paper read that . 
Susan read George Warham , Esq . 
Susan lifted her gaze from this paragraph , after she had read it until the words ran together in a blur . 
She found Burlingham looking at her . 
Said he As I told you before , I don't want to know anything . 
But when I read that , it occurred to me , if some of the others saw it they might think it was you and might do a dirty trick . 
He sighed , with a cynical little smile . 
I was tempted , myself . 
A thousand is quite a bunch . 
I don't know why I didn't He shrugged his shoulders . 
Now , my dear , you're in on the secret of why I haven't got up in the world . 
The game's far from over . 
She realized that he had indeed made an enormous sacrifice for her for , though very ignorant about money , a thousand dollars seemed a fortune . 
She had no words she looked away toward the emerald shore , and her eyes filled and her lip quivered . 
How much goodness there was in the world how much generosity and affection ! I'm not sure , he went on , that you oughtn't to go back . 
But it's your own business . 
I've a kind of feeling you know what you're about . 
No matter what happens to me , said she , I'll never regret what I've done . 
I'd kill myself before I'd spend another day with the man they made me marry . 
You may not get your meals so regular out in the world , but you certainly do live . 
Yes that backwoods life , for anybody with a spark of spunk , is simply being dead and knowing it . 
He tore the Courier into six pieces , flung them over the side . 
None of the others saw the paper , said he . 
So Miss Lorna Sackville is perfectly safe . 
He patted her on the shoulder . 
And she owes me a thousand and two dollars . 
I'll pay if you'll be patient , said the girl , taking his jest gravely . 
It's a good gamble , said he . 
I guess that had something to do with my virtue . 
There's always a practical reason always . 
But the girl was not hearing his philosophies . 
No you're not dreaming , said Burlingham , laughing at her expression . 
At least , no more than we all are . 
Sometimes I suspect the whole damn shooting match is nothing but a dream . 
When do do you try me ? she asked . 
Tomorrow night , at Bethlehem a bum little town for us . 
We'll stay there a couple of days . 
I want you to get used to appearing . 
He nodded at her encouragingly . 
You've got stuff in you , real stuff . 
Get self confidence conceit , if you please . 
Nobody arrives anywhere without it . 
You want to feel that you can do what you want to do . 
A fool's conceit is that he's it already . 
A sensible man's conceit is that he can be it , if he'll only work hard and in the right way . 
See ? I I think I do , said the girl . 
Burlingham smoked his cigar in silence . 
When he spoke , it was with eyes carefully averted . 
There's another subject the spirit moves me to talk to you about . 
That's the one Miss Connemora opened up with you yesterday . 
As Susan moved uneasily , Now , don't get scared . 
I'm not letting the woman business bother me much nowadays . 
All I think of is how to get on my feet again . 
I want to have a theater on Broadway before the old black flagger overtakes my craft and makes me walk the plank and jump out into the Big Guess . 
So you needn't think I'm going to worry you . 
Oh , I didn't think You ought to have , though , interrupted he . 
A man like me is a rare exception . 
I'm a rare exception to my ordinary self , to be quite honest . 
It'll be best for you always to assume that every man you run across is looking for just one thing . 
You know what ? Susan , the flush gone from her cheeks , nodded . 
I suppose Connemora has put you wise . 
But there are some things even she don't know about that subject . 
Now , I want you to listen to your grandfather . 
And think it over until you understand it . 
I will , said Susan . 
In the life you've come out of , virtue in a woman's everything . 
She's got to be virtuous , or at least to have the reputation of it or she's nothing . 
You understand that ? Yes , said Susan . 
Now in the life you're going into , virtue in a woman is nothing no more than it is in a man anywhere . 
The woman who makes a career becomes like the man who makes a career . 
How is it with a man ? Some are virtuous , others are not . 
But no man lets virtue bother him and nobody bothers about his virtue . 
That's the way it is with a woman who cuts loose from the conventional life of society and home and all that . 
She is virtuous or not , as she happens to incline . 
Her real interest in herself , her real value , lies in another direction . 
She'll never make a career , any more than she could drive an automobile through a crowded street and at the same time keep a big picture hat on straight . 
Do you follow me ? I'm not sure , said the girl . 
I'll have to think about it . 
I'm not talking for or against virtue . 
I'm simply talking practical life , and all I mean is that you won't get on there by your virtue , and you won't get on by your lack of virtue . 
Susan's look of unconscious admiration and attention was the subtlest flattery . 
Her first sensation was obviously disappointing . 
She had expected something far more impressive . 
Said she I don't care anything about men . 
Be sensible ! How are you to know now what you care about and what you don't ? was Burlingham's laughing rebuke . 
But don't ever let your emotions hinder or hurt or destroy you . 
Use them to help you . 
I guess I'm shooting pretty far over that young head of yours , ain't I ? Not so very far , said the girl . 
If you live big enough and long enough , you'll go through three stages . 
The first is the one you're in now . 
They've always taught you without realizing it , and so you think that only the strong can afford to do right . 
You think doing right makes the ordinary person , like yourself , easy prey for those who do wrong . 
You think that good people if they're really good have to wait until they get to Heaven before they get a chance . 
Isn't that so ? No. But you'll not realize it until you pass into the second stage . 
There , you'll think you see that only the strong can afford to do wrong . 
You'll think that everyone , except the strong , gets it in the neck if he or she does anything out of the way . 
You'll think you're being punished for your sins , and that , if you had behaved yourself , you'd have got on much better . 
Do you understand ? Susan shook her head . 
You haven't lived long enough yet . 
Well , I'll finish , anyhow . 
I'll remember , said Susan . 
I'll think about it until I do understand . 
The weather and the scenery make me feel like philosophizing . 
Finally , if you come through the second stage all right , you'll enter the third stage . 
There , you'll see that you were right at first when you thought only the strong could afford to do right . 
And you'll see that you were right in the second stage when you thought only the strong could afford to do wrong . 
For you'll have learned that only the strong can afford to act at all , and that they can do right or wrong as they please because they are strong . 
Then you don't believe in right , at all ! exclaimed the girl , much depressed , but whether for the right or for her friend she could not have told . 
Now , who said that ? Demanded he , amused . 
My moral is , be strong ! In this world the good weaklings and the bad weaklings had better lie low , hide in the tall grass . 
The strong inherit the earth . 
They were silent a long time , she thinking , he observing her with sad tenderness . 
At last he said You are a nice sweet girl well brought up . 
But that means badly brought up for the life you've got to lead the life you've got to learn to lead . 
I'm beginning to see that , said the girl . 
Her gravity made him feel like laughing , and brought the tears to his eyes . 
You're going to fight your way up to what's called the triumphant class the people on top they have all the success , all the money , all the good times . 
But those nice moral things you believe in they don't apply to people like you fighting their way up from the meek working class to the triumphant class . 
You won't believe me now won't understand thoroughly . 
Once you've climbed up among the successful people you can afford to indulge in moderation in practicing the good old moralities . 
Any dirty work you may need done you can hire done and pretend not to know about it . 
But while you're climbing , no Golden Rule and no turning of the cheek . 
Tooth and claw then not sheathed but naked not by proxy but in your own person . 
But you're not like that , said the girl . 
The more fool I , repeated he . 
She was surprised that she understood so much of what he had said childlike wonder at her wise old heart , made wise almost in a night a wedding night . 
When Burlingham lapsed into silence , laughing at himself for having talked so far over the kiddie's head , she sat puzzling out what he had said . 
The world seemed horribly vast and forbidding , and the sky , so blue and bright , seemed far , far away . 
I am so weak , she murmured . 
Yes , but you'll grow , said be . 
I back you to win . 
The color poured into her cheeks , and she burst into tears . 
Burlingham thought he understood for once his shrewdness went far astray . 
Excusably , since he could not know that he had used the same phrase that had closed Spenser's letter to her . 
The main thing , the only thing to worry about , explained he , is beginning right . 
She was standing in the center of the stage , he on the floor of the auditorium beside the seated orchestra . 
That means , he went on , you've simply got to learn to come in right . 
We'll practice that for a while . 
She went to the wings where there was barely space for her to conceal herself by squeezing tightly against the wall . 
At the signal from him she walked out . 
But , said he , there's a difference between a stage walk and walking anywhere else or standing . 
Nothing is natural on the stage . 
If it were it would look unnatural , because the stage itself is artificial and whatever is there must be in harmony with it . 
So everything must be done unnaturally in such a way that it seems natural . 
Just as a picture boat looks natural though it's painted on a flat surface . 
He gave her his hand to help her jump down then he climbed to the stage . 
He went to the wings and walked out . 
He repeated his illustration again and again , Susan watching and listening with open eyed wonder and admiration . 
She had never dreamed that so simple a matter could be so complex . 
When he got her up beside him and went through it with her , she soon became as used to the new motions as a beginner at the piano to stretching an octave . 
But it was only after more than an hour's practice that she moved him to say That'll do for a beginning . 
She tried Suwanee River first and went through it fairly well , singing to him as he stood back at the rear door . 
He was enthusiastic cunning Burlingham , who knew so well how to get the best out of everyone ! Mighty good eh , Pat ? Yes , mighty good . 
You've got something better than a great voice , my dear . 
The same thing that made me engage you the minute you asked me is going to make you well , go a long ways a long ways . 
Now , we'll try The Last Rose of Summer . 
And this improvement continued through the other four songs of her repertoire . 
His confidence in her was contagious it was so evident that he really did believe in her . 
And Pat , too , wagged his head in a way that made her feel good about herself . 
Then Burlingham called in the others whom he had sent to the forward deck . 
Before them the girl went all to pieces . 
She made her entrance badly , she sang worse . 
And the worse she sang , the worse she felt and the worse her next attempt was . 
At last , with nerves unstrung , she broke down and sobbed . 
Burlingham climbed up to pat her on the shoulder . 
That's the best sign yet , said he . 
It shows you've got temperament . 
Yes you've got the stuff in you . 
He quieted her , interested her in the purely mechanical part of what she was doing . 
Don't think of who you're doing it before , or of how you're doing it , but only of getting through each step and each note . 
If your head's full of that , you'll have no room for fright . 
And she was ready to try again . 
When she finished the last notes of Suwanee River , there was an outburst of hearty applause . 
And the sound that pleased her most was Tempest's rich rhetorical Bravo ! As a man she abhorred him but she respected the artist . 
And in unconsciously drawing this distinction she gave proof of yet another quality that was to count heavily in the coming days . 
But she thought him an artist . 
A girl or boy without the intelligence that can develop into flower and fruit would have seen and felt only Tempest , the odious personality . 
Burlingham did not let her off until she was ready to drop with exhaustion . 
She went to bed early , and she slept without a motion or a break until the odor of the cooking breakfast awakened her . 
When she came out , her face was bright for the first time . 
She was smiling , laughing , chatting , was delighted with everything and everybody . 
Even the thought of Roderick Spenser laid up with a broken leg recurred less often and less vividly . 
It seemed to her that the leg must be about well . 
The imagination of healthy youth is reluctant to admit ideas of gloom in any circumstances . 
In circumstances of excitement and adventure , such as Susan's at that time , it flatly refuses to admit them . 
They were at anchor before a little town sprawled upon the fields between hills and river edge . 
A few loafers were chewing tobacco and inspecting the show boat from the shady side of a pile of lumber . 
And we ought to do pretty well , said Burlingham . 
The wheat's about all threshed , and there's a kind of lull . 
The hayseeds aren't so dead tired at night . 
A couple of weeks ago we couldn't have got half a house by paying for it . 
As the afternoon wore away and the sun disappeared behind the hills to the southwest , Susan's spirits oozed . 
Burlingham and the others deliberately paid no attention to her , acted as if no great , universe stirring event were impending . 
Immediately after supper Burlingham said Now , Vi , get busy and put her into her harness . 
Make her a work of art . 
Never was there a finer display of unselfishness than in their eagerness to help her succeed , in their intense nervous anxiety lest she should not make a hit . 
These wandering players had suffered too much not to have the keenest and gentlest sympathy . 
They did her hair up in a graceful sweep from the brow and a simple coil behind . 
The rouge gave her color , enhanced into splendor the brilliance of her violet gray eyes eyes so intensely colored and so admirably framed that they were noted by the least observant . 
When Anstruther had put the last touches to her toilet and paraded her to the others , there was a chorus of enthusiasm . 
The men no less than the women viewed her with the professional eye . 
Didn't I tell you all ? cried Burlingham , as they looked her up and down like a group of connoisseurs inspecting a statue . 
Wasn't I right ? It is the dawn , and Juliet is the east , orated Tempest in rich , romantic tones . 
A damn shame to waste her on these yaps , said Eshwell . 
Connemora embraced her with tearful eyes . 
And as sweet as you are lovely , you dear ! she cried . 
You simply can't help winning . 
The two women thought her greatest charms were her form and her feet and ankles . 
The men insisted that her charm of charms was her eyes . 
And certainly , much could be said for that view . 
She shook her head , lifted it high like a swimmer shaking off a wave . 
She heard Pat playing the last of the opening chords Burlingham lifted his hand like a leader's baton . 
And naturally and sweetly the notes , the words of the old darkey song of longing for home began to float out through the stillness . 
She did not take her gaze from Burlingham . 
She sang her best , sang to please him , to show him how she appreciated what he had done for her . 
And when she finished and bowed , the outburst of applause unnerved her , sent her dizzy and almost staggering into the wings . 
Splendid ! Splendid ! cried Mabel , and Anstruther embraced her , and Tempest and Eshwell kissed her hands . 
They all joined in pushing her out again for the encore Blue Alsatian Mountains . 
The crowd clapped , stamped , whistled , shouted but Burlingham defied it . 
The lady will sing again later , he cried . 
The next number on the regular program is , etc . 
The crowd yelled Burlingham stood firm , and up went the curtain on Eshwell and Connemora's sketch . 
Nor did any other numbers on the program . 
The contrast between the others and the beauty of the girl , her delicate sweetness , her vital youth , her freshness of the early morning flower , was inevitable . 
The crowd could think only of her . 
The quality of magnetism aside , she had sung neither very well nor very badly . 
But had she sung badly , still her beauty would have won her the same triumph . 
When she came on for her second number with a cloud like azure chiffon flung carelessly over her dark hair as a scarf , Spanish fashion , she received a stirring welcome . 
It frightened her , so that Pat had to begin four times before her voice faintly took up the tune . 
Again Burlingham's encouraging , confident gaze , flung across the gap between them like a strong rescuing hand , strengthened her to her task . 
Burlingham lingered in the entrance to the auditorium to feast himself on the comments of the crowd as it passed out . 
When he went back he had to search for the girl , found her all in a heap in a chair at the outer edge of the forward deck . 
Well , for God's sake ! cried he . 
Is this the way you take it ! She lifted her head . 
Did I do very badly ? she asked . 
You swept 'em off their big hulking feet , replied he . 
When you didn't come , I thought I'd disappointed you . 
I'll bet my hand there never was such a hit made in a river show boat and they've graduated some of the swells of the profession . 
We'll play here a week to crowded houses matinees every day , too . 
And this is a two night stand usually . 
I must find some more songs . 
The very thing ! he cried . 
We'll ring in some hymns . 
Rock of Ages , say and Jesus , Lover of my Soul' and you can get 'em off in a churchy kind of costume something like a surplice . 
And Anstruther can dope out the accompaniments on that wheezer . 
What d'you think ? Whatever you want , said the girl . 
Oh , I am so glad ! I don't see how you got through so well , said he . 
I didn't dare fail , replied Susan . 
If I had , I couldn't have faced you . 
And by the light of the waning moon he saw the passionate gratitude of her sensitive young face . 
Oh I've done nothing , said he , wiping the tears from his eyes for he had his full share of the impulsive , sentimental temperament of his profession . 
Susan gazed at him with eyes of the pure deep violet of strongest feeling . 
I know what you did , she said in a low voice . 
And I'd die for you . 
Burlingham had to use his handkerchief in dealing with his eyes now . 
This business has given me hysterics , said he with a queer attempt at a laugh . 
Then , after a moment , God bless you , little girl . 
You wait here a moment . 
I'll see how supper's getting on . 
He wished to go ahead of her , for he had a shrewd suspicion as to the state of mind of the rest of the company . 
There they sat in the litter of peanut hulls , popcorn , and fruit skins which the audience had left . 
On every countenance was jealous gloom . 
What's wrong ? inquired Burlingham in his cheerful derisive way . 
You are a nice bunch , you are ! They shifted uneasily . 
Mabel snapped out , Where's the infant prodigy ? Is she so stuck on herself already that she won't associate with us ? You grown up babies , mocked Burlingham . 
I found her out there crying in darkness because she thought she'd failed . 
Now you go bring her in , Conny . 
As for the rest of you , I'm disgusted . 
Here we've hit on something that'll land us in Easy Street , and you're all filled up with poison . 
They were ashamed of themselves . 
Anstruther began to get out the supper dishes and Mabel slipped away toward the forward deck . 
When the child comes in , pursued Burlingham , I want to see you people looking and acting human . 
We are a lot of damn fools , admitted Eshwell . 
That's why we're bum actors instead of doing well at some respectable business . 
And his jealousy went the way of Violet's and Mabel's . 
Pat began to remember that he had shared in the triumph where would she have been without his violin work ? But Tempest remained somber . 
In his case better nature was having a particularly hard time of it . 
His vanity had got savage wounds from the hoots and the Oh , bite it off , hamfat , which had greeted his impressive lecture on the magic lantern pictures . 
He exonerated the girl , but not Burlingham . 
He was convinced that the manager , in a spirit of mean revenge , had put up a job on him . 
Susan came shyly and at the first glance into her face her associates despised themselves for their pettiness . 
It is impossible for envy and jealousy and hatred to stand before the light of such a nature as Susan's . 
Away from her these very human friends of hers might hate her but in her presence they could not resist the charm of her sincerity . 
Everyone's spirits went up with the supper . 
It was Pat who said to Burlingham , Bob , we're going to let the pullet in on the profits equally , aren't we ? Sure , replied Burlingham . 
Anybody kicking ? The others protested enthusiastically except Tempest , who shot a glance of fiery scorn at Burlingham over a fork laden with potato salad . 
Then you're elected , Miss Sackville , said Burlingham . 
Susan's puzzled eyes demanded an explanation . 
Just this , said he . 
We divide equally at the end of the trip all we've raked in , after the rent of the boat and expenses are taken off . 
You get your equal share exactly as if you started with us . 
But that wouldn't be fair , protested the girl . 
I must pay what I owe you first . 
She means two dollars she borrowed of me at Carrollton , explained Burlingham . 
And they all laughed uproariously . 
I'll only take what's fair , said the girl . 
I vote we give it all to her , rolled out Tempest in tragedy's tone for classic satire . 
Before Mabel could hurl at him the probably coarse retort she instantly got her lips ready to make , Burlingham's cool , peace compelling tones broke in Miss Sackville's right . 
She must get only what's fair . 
She shares equally from tonight on less two dollars . 
But Burlingham knew , and that was the cause of the quiet grin to which he treated himself . 
Out of the bitterness of experience he used to say , A young optimist is a young fool . 
An old optimist is an old ass . 
A fool may learn , an ass can't . 
And again , An optimist steams through the fog , taking it for granted everything's all right . 
A pessimist steams ahead too , but he gets ready for trouble . 
However , he was wise enough to keep his private misgivings and reservations from his associates the leaders of the human race always talk optimism and think pessimism . 
He had told the company that Susan was sure to make a go and after she had made a go , he announced the beginning of a season of triumph . 
But he was surprised when his prediction came true and they had to turn people away from the next afternoon's performance . 
Bethlehem , the sleepy , showed that it could wake when there was anything worth waking for . 
Burlingham put on the hymns in the middle of the week , and even the clergy sent their families . 
Every morning Susan , either with Mabel or with Burlingham , or with both , took a long walk into the country . 
It was Burlingham , by the way , who taught her the necessity of regular and methodical long walks for the preservation of her health . 
When she returned there was always a crowd lounging about the landing waiting to gape at her and whisper . 
He laughed to himself indulgently . 
Let the kiddie enjoy herself , thought he . 
She needs the self confidence now to give her a good foundation to stand on . 
Then when she finds out what a false alarm this jay excitement was , she'll not be swept clean away into despair . 
The chief element in her happiness , he of course knew nothing about . 
This success it seemed to her to give her the right to have been born , the right to live on and hold up her head without effort after Ferguson . 
I'll show them all , before I get through , she said to herself over and over again . 
They'll be proud of me . 
Ruth will be boasting to everyone that I'm her cousin . 
And Sam Wright he'll wonder that he ever dared touch such a famous , great woman . 
She only half believed this herself , for she had much common sense and small self confidence . 
But pretending that she believed it all gave her the most delicious pleasure . 
Tempest twitched to jeer openly at Susan , whose exhibition was really timid and modest and not merely excusable but justifiable . 
But he dared go no further than holding haughtily aloof and casting vaguely into the air ever and anon a tragic sneer . 
Susan would not have understood if she had seen , and did not see . 
She was treading the heights , her eyes upon the sky . 
She held grave consultation with Burlingham , with Violet , with Mabel , about improving her part . 
She took it all very , very seriously and Burlingham was glad of that . 
Yes , she does take herself seriously , he admitted to Anstruther . 
But that won't do any harm as she's so young , and as she takes her work seriously , too . 
The trouble about taking oneself seriously is it stops growth . 
She hasn't got that form of it . 
Not yet , said Violet . 
She'll wake from her little dream , poor child , long before the fatal stage . 
And he heaved a sigh for his own lost illusions those illusions that had cost him so dear . 
Burlingham had intended to make at least one stop before Jeffersonville , the first large town on the way down . 
But Susan's capacities as a house filler decided him for pushing straight for it . 
We'll go where there's a big population to be drawn on , said he . 
But he did not say that in the back of his head there was forming a plan to take a small theater at Jeffersonville if the girl made a hit there . 
Eshwell , to whom he was talking , looked glum . 
She's going pretty good with these greenies , observed he . 
But I've my doubts whether city people'll care for anything so milk like . 
Burlingham had his doubts , too but he retorted warmly Don't you believe it , Eshie . 
Underneath , there's still the simple , honest , grassy green heart of the country . 
So you've stopped jeering at jays . 
You've forgotten what a lot of tightwads and petty swindlers they are . 
Well , I don't blame you . 
Now that they're giving down to us so freely , I feel better about them myself . 
It's a pity we can't lower the rest of the program to the level of their intellectuals . 
That's a good idea , replied he . 
I'll try to get together some simple slop . 
Perhaps a melodrama , a good hot one , would go eh ? After ten days the receipts began to drop . 
On the fifteenth day there was only a handful at the matinee , and in the evening half the benches were empty . 
About milked dry , said Burlingham at the late supper . 
We'll move on in the morning . 
Susan saw visions of bigger triumphs the others felt that they were going where dramatic talent , not to say genius , would be at least not entirely unappreciated . 
So the company was at its liveliest next morning as the mosquito infested willows of the Bethlehem shore slowly dropped away . 
All day a long , dreamy , summer day they drifted lazily downstream , and , except Tempest , all grew gayer and more gay . 
Burlingham had announced that there were three hundred and seventy eight dollars in the japanned tin box he kept shut up in his bag . 
At dusk a tug , for three dollars , nosed them into a wharf which adjoined the thickly populated labor quarter of Jeffersonville . 
Susan was awakened by a scream . 
Even as she opened her eyes a dark cloud , a dull suffocating terrifying pain , descended upon her . 
When she again became conscious , she was lying upon a mass of canvas on the levee with three strange men bending over her . 
She sat up , instinctively caught together the front of the nightdress she had bought in Bethlehem the second day there . 
Then she looked wildly from face to face . 
You're all right , ma'am , said one of the men . 
Not a scratch only stunned . 
What was it ? said the girl . 
Where are they ? As she spoke , she saw Burlingham in his nightshirt propped against a big blue oil barrel . 
He was staring stupidly at the ground . 
And now she noted the others scattered about the levee , each with a group around him or her . 
What was it ? she repeated . 
A tug butted its tow of barges into you , said someone . 
Crushed your boat like an eggshell . 
Burlingham staggered to his feet , stared round , saw her . 
Thank God ! he cried . 
Anyone drowned ? Anyone hurt ? All saved no bones broken , someone responded . 
And the boat ? Gone down . 
Nothing left of her but splinters . 
The barges were full of coal and building stone . 
The box ! suddenly shouted Burlingham . 
The box ! What kind of a box ? asked a boy with lean , dirty , and much scratched bare legs . 
A little black tin box like they keep money in ? That's it . 
Where is it ? It's all right , said the boy . 
One of your people , a black actor looking fellow Tempest , interjected Burlingham . 
He dressed on the wharf and he had the box . 
Where is he ? He said he was going for a doctor . 
Last I seed of him he was up to the corner yonder . 
Burlingham gave a kind of groan . 
Susan read in his face his fear , his suspicion the suspicion he was ashamed of himself for having . 
She noted vaguely that he talked with the policeman aside for a few minutes , after which the policeman went up the levee . 
Burlingham rejoined his companions and took command . 
The first thing was to get dressed as well as might be from such of the trunks as had been knocked out of the cabin by the barge and had been picked up . 
Even Burlingham could not realize just what had occurred . 
They called to one another more or less humorous remarks while they were dressing behind piles of boxes , crates , barrels and sacks in the wharf boat . 
And they laughed gayly when they assembled . 
Susan made the best appearance , for her blue serge suit had been taken out dry when she herself was lifted from the sinking wreck the nightgown served as a blouse . 
Mabel's trunk had been saved . 
Burlingham and Eshwell made a fairly respectable showing in clothing from Tempest's trunk . 
Their own trunks had gone down . 
Why , where's Tempest ? asked Eshwell . 
He'll be back in a few minutes , replied Burlingham . 
In fact , he ought to be back now . 
His glance happened to meet Susan's he hastily shifted his eyes . 
Where's the box ? asked Violet . 
Tempest's taking care of it , was the manager's answer . 
Her shrewd , dissipated eyes contracted with suspicion . 
Anybody got any money ? inquired Eshwell , as he fished in his pockets . 
No one had a cent . 
Eshwell searched Tempest's trunk , found a two dollar bill and a one wrapped round a silver dollar and wadded in among some ragged underclothes . 
Susan heard Burlingham mutter Wonder how he happened to overlook that ! But no one else heard . 
Well , we might have breakfast , suggested Mabel . 
They went out on the water deck of the wharf boat , looked down at the splinters of the wreck lying in the deep yellow river . 
Come on , said Burlingham , and he led the way up the levee . 
There was no attempt at jauntiness they all realized now . 
How about Tempest ? said Eshwell , stopping short halfway up . 
Tempest hell ! retorted Mabel . 
What do you mean ? cried Violet , whose left eye was almost closed by a bruise . 
We'll not see him again . 
Bob ! shrieked Violet at Burlingham . 
Do you hear that ? Yes , said he . 
Keep calm , and come on . 
Aren't you going to do anything ? she screamed , seizing him by the coat tail . 
You must , damn it you must ! I got the policeman to telephone headquarters , said Burlingham . 
What else can be done ? Come on . 
And a moment later the bedraggled and dejected company filed into a cheap levee restaurant . 
Bring some coffee , Burlingham said to the waiter . 
Then to the others , Does anybody want anything else ? No one spoke . 
Coffee's all , he said to the waiter . 
It came , and they drank it in silence , each one's brain busy with the disaster from the standpoint of his own resulting ruin . 
Susan glanced furtively at each face in turn . 
She could not think of her own fate , there was such despair in the faces of these others . 
Mabel looked like an old woman . 
As for Violet , every feature of her homeliness , her coarseness , her dissipated premature old age stood forth in all its horror . 
Susan's heart contracted and her flesh crept as she glanced quickly away . 
But she still saw , and it was many a week before she ceased to see whenever Violet's name came into her mind . 
Burlingham , too , looked old and broken . 
Here , Eshie , said the manager , take care of the three dollars . 
And he handed him the bills . 
I'll pay for the coffee and keep the change . 
I'm going down to the owners of that tug and see what I can do . 
When he had paid they followed him out . 
At the curbstone he said , Keep together somewhere round the wharf boat . 
He lifted the battered hat he was wearing , smiled at Susan . 
Cheer up , Miss Sackville . 
We'll down 'em yet ! And away he went a strange figure , his burly frame squeezed into a dingy old frock suit from among Tempest's costumes . 
A dreary two hours , the last half hour in a drizzling rain from which the narrow eaves of the now closed and locked wharf boat sheltered them only a little . 
They concentrated on his face , hoping to get some indication of what to expect but he never permitted his face to betray his mind . 
He strode up the plank and joined them . 
Tempest come ? he asked . 
Haven't I told you he's jumped ? Don't you suppose I know him ? And you brought him into the company , raged Violet . 
Burlingham didn't want to take him . 
He looked the fool and jackass he is . 
Why didn't you warn us he was a rotten thief , too ? Wasn't it for shoplifting you served six months in Joliet ? retorted Mabel . 
You lie you streetwalker ! screamed Violet . 
Ladies ! Ladies ! said Eshwell . 
That's what I say , observed Pat . 
I'm no lady , replied Mabel . 
An actress he he ! jeered Violet . 
An actress ! Shut up , all of you , commanded Burlingham . 
How much ? cried Mabel and Violet in the same breath , their quarrel not merely finished but forgotten . 
For the boat and all ? demanded Eshwell . 
Why , Bob They think it was for boat and all , interrupted Burlingham with his cynical smile . 
They set out to bully and cheat me . 
They knew I couldn't get justice . 
So I let 'em believe I owned the boat and I've got fifty apiece for us . 
There are six of us . 
You don't count in this little Jonah here , do you ? cried Violet , scowling evilly at Susan . 
No no don't count me in , begged Susan . 
You're right , Mr. Burlingham , said she . 
Miss Sackville ought to share . 
We're all in the same box . 
Miss Sackville will share , said Burlingham . 
There's going to be no skunking about this , as long as I'm in charge . 
Eshwell and Pat sided with Violet . 
While the rain streamed , the five , with Susan a horrified onlooker , fought on and on about the division of the money . 
They hurled the most frightful epithets at one another . 
Violet seized Mabel by the hair , and the men interfered , all but coming to blows themselves in the melee . 
The wharfmaster rushed from his office , drove them off to the levee . 
They continued to yell and curse , even Burlingham losing control of himself and releasing all there was of the tough and the blackguard in his nature . 
Two policemen came , calmed them with threat of arrest . 
At last Burlingham took from his pocket one at a time three small rolls of bills . 
He flung one at each of the three who were opposing his division . 
Take that , you dirty curs , he said . 
And be glad I'm giving you anything at all . 
Most managers wouldn't have come back . 
Come on , Miss Sackville . 
And the two followed him up the levee , leaving the others counting their shares . 
At the street corner they went into a general store where Burlingham bought two ninety eight cent umbrellas . 
He gave Mabel one , held the other over Susan and himself as they walked along . 
Well , ladies , said he , we begin life again . 
A clean slate , a fresh start as if nothing had ever happened . 
Susan looked at him to try to give him a grateful and sympathetic smile . 
She was surprised to see that , so far as she could judge , he had really meant the words he had spoken . 
Yes , I mean it , said he . 
Always look at life as it is as a game . 
With every deal , whether you win or lose , your stake grows for your stake's your wits , and you add to 'em by learning something with each deal . 
What are you going to do , Mabel ? Get some clothes . 
The water wrecked mine and this rain has finished my hat . 
We'll go together , said Burlingham . 
They took a car for Louisville , descended before a department store . 
Burlingham had to fit himself from the skin out Mabel had underclothes , needed a hat , a dress , summer shoes . 
Susan needed underclothes , shoes , a hat , for she was bareheaded . 
They arranged to meet at the first entrance down the side street Burlingham gave Susan and Mabel each their fifty dollars and went his way . 
When they met again in an hour and a half , they burst into smiles of delight . 
Burlingham had transformed himself into a jaunty , fashionable young middle aged man , with an air of success achieved and prosperity assured . 
He had put the fine finishing touch to his transformation by getting a haircut and a shave . 
Mabel looked like a showy chorus girl , in a striped blue and white linen suit , a big beflowered hat , and a fluffy blouse of white chiffon . 
Susan had resisted Mabel's entreaties , had got a plain , sensible linen blouse of a kind that on a pinch might be washed out and worn without ironing . 
Her new hat was a simple blue sailor with a dark blue band that matched her dress . 
I spent thirty six dollars , said Burlingham . 
I only spent twenty two , declared Mabel . 
And this child here only parted with seven of her dollars . 
I had no idea she was so thrifty . 
And now what ? said Burlingham . 
I'm going round to see a friend of mine , replied Mabel . 
She's on the stage , too . 
There's sure to be something doing at the summer places . 
Maybe I can ring Miss Sackville in . 
There ought to be a good living in those eyes of hers and those feet and ankles . 
I'm sure I can put her next to something . 
Then you can give her your address , said Burlingham . 
Why , she's going with me , cried Mabel . 
You don't suppose I'd leave the child adrift ? No , she's going with me to a boarding house I'll find for her , said Burlingham . 
Into Mabel's face flashed the expression of the suspicion such a statement would at once arouse in a mind trained as hers had been . 
Burlingham's look drove the expression out of her face , and suspicion at least into the background . 
She's not going with your friend , said Burlingham , a hint of sternness in his voice . 
That's best isn't it ? Miss Connemora's eyes dropped . 
Yes , I guess it is , replied she . 
Well I turn down this way . 
We'll keep on and go out Chestnut Street , said Burlingham . 
You can write to her or to me care of the General Delivery . 
You may hear from Tempest . 
You can write me there , too . 
Mabel was constrained and embarrassed . 
Good by , Miss Sackville . 
Susan embraced and kissed her . 
Oh , it's all so sudden and frightful , she said . 
Do try to be good , Lorna . 
She looked earnestly , appealingly , at him . 
Yes , I'm sure you can . 
And he's right about me . 
She hurried away , not before Susan had seen the tears falling from her kind , fast fading eyes . 
Susan stood looking after her . 
And for the first time the truth about the catastrophe came to her . 
How brave you are ! she cried . 
Oh , what'd be the use in dropping down and howling like a dog ? replied he . 
That wouldn't bring the boat back . 
It wouldn't get me a job . 
And you shared equally , when you lost the most of all . 
The boat was mine , too , said he in a dry reflective tone . 
I told 'em it wasn't when we started out because I wanted to get a good share for rent and so on , without any kicking from anybody . 
The loss did not appeal to her it was the lie he had told . 
She felt her confidence shaking . 
You didn't mean to to she faltered , stopped . 
To cheat them ? suggested he . 
So to sort of balance things up I divided equally all I got from the tug people . 
What're you looking so unhappy about ? I wish you hadn't told me , she said miserably . 
I don't see why you did . 
Because I don't want you making me into a saint . 
I'm like the rest you see about in pants , cheating and lying , with or without pretending to themselves that they're honest . 
Don't trust anybody , my dear . 
The sooner you get over the habit , the sooner you'll cease to tempt people to be hypocrites . 
All the serious trouble I've ever got into has come through trusting or being trusted . 
He looked gravely at her , burst out laughing at her perplexed , alarmed expression . 
Oh , Lord , it isn't as bad as all that , said he . 
Then a new deal with everything to gain and nothing to lose . 
Her landlady was Mrs. Redding , a simple hearted , deaf old widow with bright kind eyes beaming guilelessness through steel framed spectacles . 
Mrs. Redding had only recently been reduced to the necessity of letting a room . 
She stated her moderate price seven dollars a week for room and board as if she expected to be arrested for attempted extortion . 
I give good meals , she hastened to add . 
I do the cooking myself and buy the best . 
I'm no hand for canned stuff . 
As for that there cold storage , it's no better'n slow poison , and not so terrible slow at that . 
Anything your daughter wants I'll give her . 
She's not my daughter , said Burlingham , and it was his turn to be red and flustered . 
I'm simply looking after her , as she's alone in the world . 
I'm going to live somewhere else . 
But I'll come here for meals , if you're willing , ma'am . 
I I'd have to make that extry , I'm afraid , pleaded Mrs. Redding . 
I eat like a pair of Percherons . 
How much did you calculate to pay ? inquired the widow . 
Her one effort at price fixing , though entirely successful , had exhausted her courage . 
Burlingham was clear out of his class in those idyllic days of protector of innocence . 
He proceeded to be more than honest . 
Oh , say five a week . 
Gracious ! That's too much , protested she . 
I hate to charge a body for food , somehow . 
It don't seem to be accordin' to what God tells us . 
But I don't see no way out . 
I'll come for five not a cent less , insisted Burlingham . 
I want to feel free to eat as much as I like . 
And it was so arranged . 
Susan had been learning rapidly since she joined the theatrical profession . 
She saw why this fine old woman was getting poorer steadily , was arranging to spend her last years in an almshouse . 
What a queer world it was ! What a strange way for a good God to order things ! The better you were , the worse off you were . 
No doubt it was Burlingham's lifelong goodness of heart as shown in his generosity to her , that had kept him down . 
She compelled Burlingham to take what was left of her fifty dollars . 
You wouldn't like to make me feel mean , was the argument she used . 
I must put in what I've got the same as you do . 
Now , isn't that fair ? And as he was dead broke and had been unable to borrow , he did not oppose vigorously . 
She assumed that after a day or two spent in getting his bearings he would take her with him as he went looking . 
When she suggested it , he promptly vetoed it . 
That isn't the way business is done in the profession , said he . 
The star you're the star keeps in the background , and her manager that's me does the hustling . 
She had every reason for believing this but as the days passed with no results , sitting about waiting began to get upon her nerves . 
Mrs. Redding had the remnant of her dead husband's library , and he had been a man of broad taste in literature . 
But Susan , ardent reader though she was , could not often lose herself in books now . 
She was too impatient for realities , too anxious about them . 
Burlingham remained equable , neither hopeful nor gloomy he made her feel that he was strong , and it gave her strength . 
Thus she was not depressed when on the last day of their week he said I think we'd better push on to Cincinnati tomorrow . 
There's nothing here , and we've got to get placed before our cash gives out . 
In Cincinnati there are a dozen places to one in this snide town . 
The idea of going to Cincinnati gave her a qualm of fear but it passed away when she considered how she had dropped out of the world . 
They think I'm dead , she reflected . 
Anyhow , I'd never be looked for among the kind of people I'm in with now . 
We'll eat in cheap restaurants and spread our capital out , said Burlingham . 
I want you to get placed right , not just placed . 
Never let yourself look poor or act poor , until you simply have to throw up the sponge , said he . 
The world judges by appearances . 
Put your first money and your last into clothes . 
And never never tell a hard luck story . 
Always seem to be doing well and comfortably looking out for a chance to do better . 
The whole world runs from seedy people and whimperers . 
Am I that way ? she asked nervously . 
Not a bit , declared he . 
The day you came up to me in Carrollton I knew you were playing in the hardest kind of hard luck because of what I had happened to see and hear and guess . 
But you weren't looking for pity and that was what I liked . 
And it made me feel you had the stuff in you . 
I'd not waste breath teaching a whiner or a cheap skate . 
You couldn't be cheap if you tried . 
The reason I talk to you about these things is so you'll learn to put the artistic touches by instinct into what you do . 
You've taken too much trouble for me , said the girl . 
Don't you believe it , my dear , laughed he . 
If I can do with you what I hope I've an instinct that if I win out for you , I'll come into my own at last . 
You've taught me a lot , said she . 
I wonder , replied he . 
That is , I wonder how much you've learned . 
Perhaps enough to keep you not to keep from being knocked down by fate , but to get on your feet afterward . 
I hope so I hope so . 
They dropped coffee , bought milk by the bottle , he smuggling it to their rooms disguised as a roll of newspapers . 
They carried in rolls also , and cut down their restaurant meals to supper which they got for twenty five cents apiece at a bakery restaurant in Seventh Street . 
There is a way of resorting to these little economies a snobbish , self despairing way that makes them sordid and makes the person indulging in them sink lower and lower . 
But Burlingham could not have taken that way . 
Susan was an apt pupil and for the career that lay before her his instructions were invaluable . 
He was teaching her how to keep the craft afloat and shipshape through the worst weather that can sweep the sea of life . 
How do you make yourself look always neat and clean ? he asked . 
She confessed I wash out my things at night and hang them on the inside of the shutters to dry . 
They're ready to wear again in the morning . 
Getting on ! cried he , full of admiration . 
They simply can't down us , and they might as well give up trying . 
But I don't look neat , sighed she . 
No that's the devil of it , laughed he . 
He pulled aside his waistcoat and she saw he was wearing a dickey . 
And my cuffs are pinned in , he said . 
I have to be careful about raising and lowering my arms . 
Can't I wash out some things for you ? she said , then hurried on to put it more strongly . 
Yes , give them to me when we get back to the hotel . 
It does help a man to feel he's clean underneath . 
And we've got nothing to waste on laundries . 
I wish I hadn't spent that fifteen cents to have my heels straightened and new steels put in them . 
She had sat in a cobbler's while this repair to the part of her person she was most insistent upon had been effected . 
A good investment , that , said he . 
I've been noticing how you always look nice about the feet . 
The surest sign of a sloven and a failure , of a moral , mental , and physical no good is down at the heel . 
Always keep your heels straight , Lorna . 
And never had he given her a piece of advice more to her liking . 
She thought she knew now why she had always been so particular about her boots and shoes , her slippers and her stockings . 
He had given her a new confidence in herself in a strength within her somewhere beneath the weakness she was always seeing and feeling . 
Not until she thought it out afterward did she realize what they were passing through , what frightful days of failure he was enduring . 
He acted like the steady nerved gambler at life that he was . 
He was not one of those more or less weak losers who have to make desperate efforts to conceal a fainting heart . 
His heart was not fainting . 
He simply played calmly on , feeling that the next throw was as likely to be for as against him . 
He also had an idea for a church scene , with her in a choir boy's costume , singing the most moving of the simple religious songs to organ music . 
She from time to time urged him to take her on the rounds with him . 
But he stood firm , giving always the same reason of the custom in the profession . 
So she tried to hide from him how weary and heartsick inaction was making her , how hard it was for her to stay alone so many hours each day . 
As he watched her closely , it soon dawned on him that something was wrong , and after a day or so he worked out the explanation . 
He found a remedy the reading room of the public library where she could make herself almost content the whole day long . 
He began to have a haggard look , and she saw he was sick , was keeping up his strength with whisky . 
It's only this infernal summer cold I caught in the smashup , he explained . 
I can't shake it , but neither can it get me down . 
I'd not dare fall sick . 
What'd become of us ? She knew that us meant only herself . 
Her mind had been aging rapidly in those long periods of unbroken reflection . 
She astonished him by suddenly announcing one evening I am a drag on you . 
I'm going to take a place in a store . 
He affected an indignation so artistic that it ought to have been convincing . 
I'm ashamed of you ! he cried . 
I see you're losing your nerve . 
This was ingenious , but it did not succeed . 
You can't deceive me any longer , was her steady answer . 
But what has that to do with it ? If I'd had a living offer , I'd have taken it . 
But at my age a man doesn't dare take certain kinds of places . 
It'd settle him for life . 
And I'm playing for a really big stake and I'll win . 
When I get what I want for you , we'll make as much money a month as I could make a year . 
Trust me , my dear . 
But she felt that she must persist . 
How much money have we got ? she asked . 
Oh a great deal enough . 
You must play square with me , said she . 
I'm not a baby , but a woman and your partner . 
Don't worry me , child . 
We'll talk about it tomorrow . 
How much ? You've no right to hide things from me . 
Eleven dollars and eighty cents when this bill for supper's paid and the waitress tipped . 
I'll try for a place in a store , said she . 
Don't talk that way or think that way , cried he angrily . 
There's where so many people fail in life . 
They don't stick to their game . 
I wish to God I'd had sense enough to break straight for Chicago or New York . 
But it's too late now . 
What I lack is nerve nerve to do the big , bold things my brains show me I ought . 
His distress was so obvious that she let the subject drop . 
That night she lay awake as she had fallen into the habit of doing . 
But instead of purposeless , rambling thoughts , she was trying definitely to plan a search for work . 
Toward three in the morning she heard him tossing and muttering for the wall between their rooms was merely plastered laths covered with paper . 
She tried his door it was locked . 
She knocked , got no answer but incoherent ravings . 
She roused the office , and the night porter forced the door . 
Brain fever , I reckon , said the porter . 
In a few minutes Susan was gladdened by the sight of a young man wearing the familiar pointed beard and bearing the familiar black bag . 
He made a careful examination , asked her many questions , finally said Your father has typhoid , I fear . 
He must be taken to a hospital . 
But we have very little money , said Susan . 
I understand , replied the doctor , marveling at the calmness of one so young . 
The hospital I mean is free . 
I'll send for an ambulance . 
You can only call and inquire how he is , until he's well enough to see you . 
And how long will that be ? I can't say . 
He hadn't the courage to tell her it would be three weeks at least , perhaps six or seven . 
He got leave of the ambulance surgeon for Susan to ride to the hospital , and he went along himself . 
She was remembering how she had said that she would die for him and here it was he that was dying for her . 
And her heart was heavy with a load of guilt , the heaviest she was ever to feel in her life . 
She could not know how misfortune is really the lot of human beings it seemed to her that a special curse attended her , striking down all who befriended her . 
They dashed up to great open doors of the hospital . 
Burlingham was lifted , was carried swiftly into the receiving room . 
Susan with tearless eyes bent over , embraced him lingeringly , kissed his fiery brow , his wasted cheeks . 
One of the surgeons in white duck touched her on the arm . 
We can't delay , he said . 
No indeed , she replied , instantly drawing back . 
She watched the stretcher on wheels go noiselessly down the corridor toward the elevator and when it was gone she still continued to look . 
You can come at any hour to inquire , said the young doctor who had accompanied her . 
Now we'll go into the office and have the slip made out . 
He directed at Susan one of those obtrusively shrewd glances which shallow people practice and affect to create the impression that they have a genius for character reading . 
He drew a pad of blank forms toward him , wiped a pen on the mat into which his mouse colored hair was roached above his right temple . 
Well , miss , what's the patient's name ? Robert Burlingham . 
Age ? I don't know . 
About what ? I I don't know . 
I guess he isn't very young . 
Put down forty , Sim , said the doctor . 
Very well , Doctor Hamilton . 
Then to Susan Color white , I suppose . 
Nativity ? Susan recalled that she had heard him speak of Liverpool as his birthplace . 
Residence ? He hasn't any . 
It was sunk at Jeffersonville . 
We stop at the Walnut Street House . 
Was he married or single ? Single . 
Then she recalled some of the disconnected ravings . 
Single , said the clerk . 
No , I guess I'll put it widower . 
Next friend or relative ? I am . 
First name ? I am not his daughter . 
I am no relation just his his friend . 
Sim the clerk looked up sharply . 
Hamilton reddened , glowered at him . 
I understand , said Sim , leering at her . 
And in a tone that reeked insinuation which quite escaped her , he went on , We'll put your name down . 
What is it ? Lorna Sackville . 
You don't look English not at all the English style of beauty , eh Doctor ? That's all , Miss Sackville , said Hamilton , with a scowl at the clerk . 
Susan and he went out into Twelfth Street . 
Hamilton from time to time stole a glance of sympathy and inquiry into the sad young face , as he and she walked eastward together . 
He's a strong man and sure to pull through , said the doctor . 
Are you alone at the hotel ? I've nobody but him in the world , replied she . 
I was about to venture to advise that you go to a boarding house , pursued the young man . 
There's one opposite the hospital a reasonable place . 
I've got to go to work , said the girl , to herself rather than to him . 
Oh , you have a position . 
Susan did not reply , and he assumed that she had . 
If you don't mind , I'd like to call and see Mr. Burlingham . 
The physicians at the hospital are perfectly competent , as good as there are in the city . 
But I'm not very busy , and I'd be glad to go . 
We haven't any money , said the girl . 
And I don't know when we shall have . 
I don't want to deceive you . 
I understand perfectly , said the young man , looking at her with interested but respectful eyes . 
I'm poor , myself , and have just started . 
Will they treat him well , when he's got no money ? As well as if he paid . 
And you will go and see that everything's all right ? It'll be a pleasure . 
Under a gas lamp he took out a card and gave it to her . 
She thanked him and put it in the bosom of her blouse where lay all the money they had the eleven dollars and eighty cents . 
They walked to the hotel , as cars were few at that hour . 
The girl listened , but her heart could not grow less heavy . 
She accepted , she hoped that , if he were with her , she gratefully would be admitted to see Burlingham and could assure herself that he was well taken care of . 
The night porter tried to detain her for a little chat . 
Well , said he , it's a good hospital for you folks with money . 
Of course , for us poor people it's different . 
You couldn't hire me to go there . 
Why not ? she asked . 
Oh , if a man's poor , or can't pay for nice quarters , they treat him any old way . 
Yes , they're good doctors and all that . 
But they're like everybody else . 
They don't give a darn for poor people . 
But your uncle'll be all right there . 
For the first time in her life Susan did not close her eyes in sleep . 
The young doctor was so moved by her worn appearance that he impulsively said Have you some troubles you've said nothing about ? Please don't hesitate to tell me . 
Oh , you needn't worry about me , replied she . 
I simply didn't sleep that's all . 
Do they treat charity patients badly at the hospital ? Certainly not , declared he earnestly . 
Of course , a charity patient can't have a room to himself . 
How much is a room ? The cheapest are ten dollars a week . 
That includes private attendance a little better nursing than the public patients get perhaps . 
But , really Miss Sackville He must have a room , said Susan . 
You are sure you can afford it ? The difference isn't He must have a room . 
She held out a ten dollar bill ten dollars of the eleven dollars and eighty cents . 
This'll pay for the first week . 
You fix it , won't you ? Young Doctor Hamilton hesitatingly took the money . 
You are quite , quite sure , Miss Sackville ? Quite sure you can afford this extravagance for it is an extravagance . 
He must have the best we can afford , evaded she . 
She waited in the office while Hamilton went up . 
When he came down after perhaps half an hour , he had an air of cheerfulness . 
Everything going nicely , said he . 
Susan's violet gray eyes gazed straight into his brown eyes and the brown eyes dropped . 
You are not telling me the truth , said she . 
I'm not denying he's a very sick man , protested Hamilton . 
Is he She could not pronounce the word . 
Nothing like that believe me , nothing . 
He has the chances all with him . 
And Susan tried to believe . 
He will have a room ? He has a room . 
That's why I was so long . 
And I'm glad he has for , to be perfectly honest , the attendance not the treatment , but the attendance is much hetter for private patients . 
Susan was looking at the floor . 
Presently she drew a long breath , rose . 
Well , I must be going , said she . 
And she went to the street , he accompanying her . 
If you're going back to the hotel , said he , I'm walking that way . 
No , I've got to go this way , replied she , looking up Elm Street . 
He saw she wished to be alone , and left her with the promise to see Burlingham again that afternoon and let her know at the hotel how he was getting on . 
He went east , she north . 
At the first corner she stopped , glanced back to make sure he was not following . 
From her bosom she drew four business cards . 
She noted the address , put away the cards and walked on , looking about for a policeman . 
A policeman , a big German , with stupid honest face , brutal yet kindly , came lounging along . 
Keep on this way , lady he pointed his baton south until you've passed four streets . 
At the fifth street turn east . 
Go one two three four five streets east . 
Understand ? Yes , thank you , said the girl with the politeness of deep gratitude . 
You'll see the name on the street lamp . 
Blynn's on the southwest corner . 
Think you can find it ? I'm sure I can . 
I'm going that way , continued the policeman . 
But you'd better walk ahead . 
If you walked with me , they'd think you was pinched and we'd have a crowd after us . 
And he laughed with much shaking of his fat , tightly belted body . 
Susan contrived to force a smile , though the suggestion of such a disgraceful scene made her shudder . 
I'm sure I'll find it . 
And she hastened on , eager to put distance between herself and that awkward company . 
Don't mention it , lady , the policeman called after her , tapping his baton on the rim of his helmet , as a mark of elegant courtesy . 
She was not at ease until , looking back , she no longer saw the bluecoat for the intervening crowds . 
At the first floor she came face to face with a door on the glass of which was painted the same announcement she had read from the wall . 
She knocked timidly , then louder . 
A shrill voice came from the interior The door's open . 
She turned the knob and entered a small , low ceilinged room whose general grime was streaked here and there with smears of soot . 
It contained a small wooden table at which sprawled a freckled and undernourished office boy , and a wooden bench where fretted a woman obviously of the profession . 
She was dressed in masses of dirty white furbelows . 
On her head reared a big hat , above an incredible quantity of yellow hair on the hat were badly put together plumes of badly curled ostrich feathers . 
Beneath her skirt was visible one of her feet it was large and fat , was thrust into a tiny slipper with high heel ending under the arch of the foot . 
The face of the actress was young and pertly pretty , but worn , overpainted , overpowdered and underwashed . 
Want to see the boss ? said the boy . 
If you please , murmured Susan . 
Business ? I'm looking for a for a place . 
The boy examined her carefully . 
Appointment ? No , sir , replied the girl . 
Well he'll see you , anyhow , said the boy , rising . 
The mass of plumes and yellow bangs and furbelows on the bench became violently agitated . 
I'm first , cried the actress . 
Oh , you sit tight , Mame , jeered the boy . 
He opened a solid door behind him . 
Through the crack Susan saw busily writing at a table desk a bald , fat man with a pasty skin and a veined and bulbous nose . 
Lady to see you , said the boy in a tone loud enough for both Susan and the actress to hear . 
Who ? What name ? snapped the man , not ceasing or looking up . 
She's young , and a queen , said the boy . 
Shall I show her in ? Yep . 
Mr. Blynn she began in a loud , threatening , elocutionary voice . 
'Lo , Mame , said Blynn , still busy . 
No time to see you . 
But , Mr. Blynn Bite it off , Mame , ordered the boy . 
Susan , deeply colored from sympathy with the humiliated actress and from nervousness in those forbidding and ominous surroundings , entered the private office . 
The boy closed the door behind her . 
At first glance into Susan's sweet , young face the small eyes sparkled and danced , traveled on to the curves of her form . 
Do sit down , my dear , said he in a grotesquely wheedling voice . 
She took the chair close to him as it was the only one in the little room . 
What can I do for you ? My , how fresh and pretty you are ! Mr. Burlingham began Susan . 
Oh you're the girl Bob was talking about . 
He smiled and nodded at her . 
No wonder he kept you out of sight . 
He inventoried her charms again with his sensual , confident glance . 
Bob certainly has got good taste . 
He's in the hospital , said Susan desperately . 
So I've come to get a place if you can find me one . 
Hospital ? I'm sorry to hear that . 
And Mr. Blynn's tones had that accent of deep sympathy which get a man or woman without further evidence credit for being kind hearted whatever else he is . 
Yes , he's very ill with typhoid , said the girl . 
I must do something right away to help him . 
That's fine fine , said Mr. Blynn in the same effective tone . 
I see you're as sweet as you are pretty . 
Yes that's fine fine ! And the moisture was in the little eyes . 
Well , I think I can do something for you . 
I must do something for you . 
Had much experience ? Professional , I mean . 
Mr. Blynn laughed at his , to Susan , mysterious joke . 
Susan smiled faintly in polite response . 
He rubbed his hands and smacked his lips , the small eyes dancing . 
Oh , yes , I can place you , if you can do anything at all , he went on . 
I'd 'a' done it long ago , if Bob had let me see you . 
But he was too foxy . 
He ought to be ashamed of himself , standing in the way of your getting on , just out of jealousy . 
Sing or dance or both ? I can sing a little , I think , said Susan . 
Ever worn tights ? Susan shook her head , a piteous look in her violet gray eyes . 
Oh , you'll soon get used to that . 
And she's a peach , too . 
So you see what a hit you've made with me . 
We'll have a nice little dinner at the Hotel du Rhine and talk things over . 
Couldn't I go to work right away ? asked the girl . 
I'll have you put on at Schaumer's tomorrow night He looked shrewdly , laughingly , at her , with contracted eyelids . 
Before I do anything for you , I have to see what you can do for me . 
And he nodded and smacked his lips . 
Oh , we'll have a lovely little dinner ! He looked expectantly at her . 
You certainly are a queen ! What a dainty little hand ! He reached out one of his hands puffy as if it had been poisoned , very white , with stubby fingers . 
Susan reluctantly yielded her hand to his close , mushy embrace . 
That's a shame , petty He was talking as if to a baby . 
That'll have to be fixed yes , it will , my little sweetie . 
My , how nice and fresh you are ! And his great nostrils , repulsively hairy within , deeply pitted without , sniffed as if over an odorous flower . 
Susan drew her hand away . 
What will they give me ? she asked . 
How greedy it is ! he wheedled . 
Well , you'll get plenty plenty . 
How much ? said the girl . 
Is it a salary ? Of course , there's the regular salary . 
But that won't amount to much . 
You know how those things are . 
How much ? Oh , say a dollar a night until you make a hit . 
This is a Sunday town . 
You'll have Wednesday , Saturday and Sunday matinees , but they don't pay for them . 
And the hospital wanted ten . 
Couldn't I get about fifteen or fourteen ? I think I could do on fourteen . 
Rather ! I was talking only of the salary . 
You'll make a good many times fifteen if you play your cards right . 
It's true Schaumer draws only a beer crowd . 
But as soon as the word flies round that you 're there , the boys with the boodle'll flock in . 
Oh , you'll wear the sparklers all right , pet . 
Rather slowly it was penetrating to Susan what Mr. Blynn had in mind . 
I'd I'd rather take a regular salary , said she . 
I must have ten a week for him . 
I can live any old way . 
Oh , come off ! cried Mr. Blynn with a wink . 
What's your game ? Anyhow , don't play it on me . 
You understand that you can't get something for nothing . 
It's all very well to love your friend and be true to him . 
But he can't expect he'll not ask you to queer yourself . 
That sort of thing don't go in the profession . 
Come now , I'm willing to set you on your feet , give you a good start , if you'll play fair with me show appreciation . 
Will you or won't you ? You mean began Susan , and paused there , looking at him with grave questioning eyes . 
Yes , I mean that . 
I'm a business man , not a sentimentalist . 
I've got no time for it . 
But when it comes to giving a girl of the right sort a square deal and a good time , why you'll find I'm as good as there is going . 
He reached for her hands again , his empty , flabby chin bags quivering . 
I want to help Bob , and I want to help you . 
She rose slowly , pushing her chair back . 
She understood now why Burlingham had kept her in the background , why his quest had been vain , why it had fretted him into mortal illness . 
I couldn't do that , she said . 
I'm sorry , but I couldn't . 
He looked at her in a puzzled way . 
You belong to Bob , don't you ? No. You mean you're straight a good girl ? Yes . 
He was half inclined to believe her , so impressive was her quiet natural way , in favorable contrast to the noisy protests of women posing as virtuous . 
Well if that's so why you'd better drop out of the profession and get away from Bob Burlingham . 
Can't I have a place without what you said ? Not as pretty a girl as you . 
And if they ain't pretty the public don't want 'em . 
Susan went to the door leading into the office . 
No the other door , said Blynn hastily . 
He did not wish the office boy to read his defeat in Susan's countenance . 
He got up himself , opened the door into the hall . 
Think it over , said he , eyes and mouth full of longing . 
Come round in a day or two , and we'll have another talk . 
Thank you , said Susan . 
She felt no anger against him . 
She felt about him as she had about Jeb Ferguson . 
It was not his fault it was simply the way life was lived part of the general misery and horror of the established order like marriage and the rest of it . 
I'll treat you white , urged Blynn , tenderly . 
I've got a soft heart that's why I'll never get rich . 
Any of the others'd ask more and give less . 
She looked at him with an expression that haunted him for several hours . 
Good by , she said , and went down the narrow , rickety stairs and out into the confused maze of streets full of strangers . 
She made the package as compact as she could it was still a formidable bundle both for size and weight and carried it into her room . 
With the two bundles she descended to the office . 
I came to say , she said calmly to the clerk , that we have no money to pay what we owe . 
Mr. Burlingham is at the hospital very sick with typhoid . 
Here is a dollar and eighty cents . 
You can have that , but I'd like to keep it , as it's all we've got . 
The clerk called the manager , and to him Susan repeated . 
She used almost the same words she spoke in the same calm , monotonous way . 
When she finished , the manager , a small , brisk man with a large brisk beard , said No. Keep the money . 
I'd like to ask you to stay on . 
But we run this place for a class of people who haven't much at best and keep wobbling back and forth across the line . 
If I ran my hotel on sympathy , what'd become of them ? I wouldn't take anything I couldn't pay for , said Susan . 
As soon as I earn some money Don't worry about that , interrupted the manager . 
He saw now that he was dealing with one who would in no circumstances become troublesome he went on in an easier tone You can stay till the house fills up . 
Could you give me a place to wait on table and clean up rooms or help cook ? No , I don't need anybody . 
The town's full of people out of work . 
You can't ask me to turn away Please I didn't know , cried the girl . 
Anyhow , I couldn't give but twelve a month and board , continued the manager . 
And the work for a lady like you A lady ! She dropped her gaze in confusion . 
If he knew about her birth ! I'll do anything . 
I'm not a lady , said she . 
But I've got to have at least ten a week in cash . 
The manager was glad to find the fault of uppish ideas in this girl who was making it hard for him to be businesslike . 
No such place anywhere for a beginner . 
I must have it , said the girl . 
I don't want to discourage you , but He was speaking less curtly , for her expression made him suspect why she was bent upon that particular amount . 
Only don't be depressed if you're disappointed . 
She smiled gravely at him he bowed , avoiding her eyes . 
She took up her bundles and went out into Walnut Street . 
He moved a few steps in obedience to an impulse to follow her , to give her counsel and warning , to offer to help her about the larger bundle . 
But he checked himself with the frown of his own not too prosperous affairs . 
It was the hottest part of the day , and her way lay along unshaded streets . 
As she had eaten nothing since the night before , she felt faint . 
Her face was ghastly when she entered the office of the hospital and left Burlingham's parcel . 
The clerk at the desk told her that Burlingham was in the same condition and there'll be probably no change one way or the other for several days . 
She returned to the street , wandered aimlessly about . 
She knew she ought to eat something , but the idea of food revolted her . 
She was fighting the temptation to go to the Commercial office , Roderick Spenser's office . 
She had not a suspicion that his kindness might have been impulse , long since repented of , perhaps repented of as soon as he was away from her . 
She felt that if she went to him he would help her . 
But I mustn't do it , she said to herself . 
Not after what I did . 
No , she must not see him until she could pay him back . 
She did not reason this out , of course but the feeling was not the less strong because the reasons for it were vague in her mind . 
And there was nothing vague about the resolve to which she finally came that she would fight her battle herself . 
Her unheeding wanderings led her after an hour or so to a big department store . 
Crowds of shoppers , mussy , hot , and cross , were pushing rudely in and out of the doors . 
It was more than pleasant , it was benign . 
He inclined toward Susan with an air that invited confidence and application for balm for a wounded spirit . 
Evidently he resented her having beguiled him by the false air of young lady into wasting upon her , mere servility like himself , a display reserved exclusively for patrons . 
It was Susan's first experience of this snobbishness it at once humbled her into the dust . 
She had been put in her place , and that place was not among people worthy of civil treatment . 
A girl of his own class would have flashed at him , probably would have jawed him . 
Susan meekly submitted she was once more reminded that she was an outcast , one for whom the respectable world had no place . 
He made some sort of reply to her question , in the tone the usher of a fashionable church would use to a stranger obviously not in the same set as the habitues . 
She heard the tone , but not the words she turned away to seek the street again . 
She wandered on through the labyrinth of streets , through the crowds on crowds of strangers . 
Ten dollars a week ! She knew little about wages , but enough to realize the hopelessness of her quest . 
Ten dollars a week and her own keep beside . 
The faces of the crowds pushing past her and jostling her made her heartsick . 
So much sickness , and harassment , and discontent so much unhappiness ! Surely all these sad hearts ought to be kind to each other . 
Yet they were not each soul went selfishly alone , thinking only of its own burden . 
She walked on and on , thinking , in this disconnected way characteristic of a good intelligence that has not yet developed order and sequence , a theory of life and a purpose . 
It had always been her habit to walk about rather than to sit , whether indoors or out . 
She could think better when in motion physically . 
When she was so tired that she began to feel weak , she saw a shaded square , with benches under the trees . 
She entered , sat down to rest . 
She might apply to the young doctor . 
She might return to Mr. Blynn and accept his offer . 
The man in all his physical horror rose before her . 
No , she could not do that . 
At least , not yet . 
She could entertain the idea as a possibility now . 
She remembered her wedding the afternoon , the night . 
Yes , Blynn's offer involved nothing so horrible as that and she had lived through that . 
It would be cowardice , treachery , to shrink from anything that should prove necessary in doing the square thing by the man who had done so much for her . 
She had said she would die for Burlingham she owed even that to him , if her death would help him . 
No , she would not go to Blynn she would wait , would take his advice think it over . 
A man was walking up and down the shaded alley , passing and repassing the bench where she sat . 
She observed him , saw that he was watching her . 
He was a young man a very young man of middle height , strongly built . 
He had crisp , short dark hair , a darkish skin , amiable blue gray eyes , pleasing features . 
She decided that he was of good family , was home from some college on vacation . 
He was wearing a silk shirt , striped flannel trousers , a thin serge coat of an attractive shade of blue . 
She liked his looks , liked the way he dressed . 
It pleased her that such a man should be interested in her he had a frank and friendly air , and her sad young heart was horribly lonely . 
She pretended not to notice him but after a while he walked up to her , lifting his straw hat . 
Good afternoon , said he . 
Good afternoon , replied she politely . 
For in spite of Burlingham's explanations and cautionings she was still the small town girl , unsuspicious toward courtesy from strange men . 
Also , she longed for someone to talk with . 
It had been weeks since she had talked with anyone nearer than Burlingham to her own age and breeding . 
Won't you have lunch with me ? he asked . 
I hate to eat alone . 
She , faint from hunger , simply could not help obvious hesitation before saying , I don't think I care for any . 
You haven't had yours have you ? No. May I sit down ? She moved along the bench to indicate that he might , without definitely committing herself . 
He sat , took off his hat . 
He had a clean , fresh look about the neck that pleased her . 
She was weary of seeing grimy , sweaty people , and of smelling them . 
Its mark of shame burning and stinging again as she sat beside this young man ! You're sad about something ? suggested he , himself nearly as embarrassed as she . 
But he'll get all right . 
They always cure typhoid , nowadays if it's taken in time and the nursing's good . 
Everything depends on the nursing . 
I had it a couple of years ago , and pulled through easily . 
He spoke so confidently that the appeal to her young credulity toward good news and the hopeful , cheerful thing was irresistible . 
Oh , yes he'll be over it soon , the young man went on , especially if he's in a hospital where they've got the facilities for taking care of sick people . 
Where is he ? In the hospital up that way . 
She moved her head vaguely in the direction of the northwest . 
It's a good one for the pay patients . 
It must be awful not to have money enough to get on with , I mean . 
With a woman if she's pretty it's different , of course . 
The girl was so agitated that she did not notice the sly , if shy , hint in the remark and its accompanying glance . 
Said she But it's a good hospital if you pay ? None better . 
Maybe it's good straight through . 
I've only heard the servants' talk and servants are such liars . 
Still I'd not want to trust myself to a hospital unless I could pay . 
I guess the common people have good reason for their horror of free wards . 
Nothing free is ever good . 
The girl's face suddenly and startlingly grew almost hard , so fierce was the resolve that formed within her . 
The money must be got must ! and would . 
She would try every way she could think of between now and to morrow then if she failed she would go to Blynn . 
The young man was saying You're a stranger in town ? I was with a theatrical company on a show boat . 
She saw , but she did not understand that it was because he thought he had placed her and that her place was where he had hoped . 
You are up against it ! said he . 
The good sense of this was unanswerable . 
Susan hesitated no longer , wondered why she had hesitated at first . 
Well I guess I will . 
And she rose with a frank , childlike alacrity that amused him immensely . 
You don't look it , but you've been about some haven't you ? Rather , replied she . 
I somehow thought you knew a thing or two . 
They walked west to Race Street . 
They were about the same height . 
She seemed of his class of the class comfortable , well educated , and well bred . 
If she had been more experienced , she would have seen that he was satisfied with her appearance despite the curious looking little package , and would have been flattered . 
As it was , her interest was absorbed in things apart from herself . 
You and I can go round together , can't we ? I haven't got much , but I'll not try to take your time for nothing , of course . 
I'm sure you'll have no cause to complain . 
What do you say ? Maybe , replied the girl , all at once absentminded . 
Her brain was wildly busy with some ideas started there by his significant words , by his flirtatious glances at her , by his way of touching her whenever he could make opportunity . 
Evidently there was an alternative to Blynn . 
You like a good time , don't you ? said he . 
Rather ! exclaimed she , the violet eyes suddenly very violet indeed and sparkling . 
Her spirits had suddenly soared . 
She was acting like one of her age . 
Said she I'm crazy about dancing and music . 
I only needed to look at your feet and ankles to know that , ventured he the ankles being especially audacious . 
She was pleased , and in youth's foolish way tried to hide her pleasure by saying , My feet aren't exactly small . 
I should say not ! protested he with energy . 
Little feet would look like the mischief on a girl as tall as you are . 
Yes , we can have a lot of fun . 
They went into a large restaurant with fly fans speeding . 
Susan thought it very grand and it was the grandest restaurant she had ever been in . 
Susan had a menu in her hand and as he ordered she noted the prices . 
She was dazzled by his extravagance dazzled and frightened and , in a curious , vague , unnerving way , fascinated . 
Money the thing she must have for Burlingham in whose case everything depended on the nursing . 
Thus , she felt that she must be careful not to show her greenness . 
She would have liked to protest against his extravagance , but she ventured only the timid remonstrance , Oh , I'm not a bit hungry . 
She thought she was speaking the truth , for the ideas whirling so fast that they were dim quite took away the sense of hunger . 
But when the food came she discovered that she was , on the contrary , ravenous and she ate with rising spirits , with a feeling of content and hope . 
He had urged her to drink wine or beer , but she refused to take anything but a glass of milk and he ended by taking milk himself . 
He was looking more and more boldly and ardently into her eyes , and she received his glances smilingly . 
She felt thoroughly at ease and at home , as if she were back once more among her own sort of people with some element of disagreeable constraint left out . 
Since she was an outcast , she need not bother about the small restraints the girls felt compelled to put upon themselves in the company of boys . 
Nobody respected a bastard , as they called her when they spoke frankly . 
So with nothing to lose she could at least get what pleasure there was in freedom . 
She liked it , having this handsome , well dressed young man making love to her in this grand restaurant where things were so good to eat and so excitingly expensive . 
He would not regard her as fit to associate with his respectable mother and sisters . 
What are you going to do ? asked the young man , when the acquaintance had become a friendship which was before the peaches and ice cream were served . 
I don't , know said the girl , with the secretive instinct of self reliance hiding the unhappiness his abrupt question set to throbbing again . 
Honestly , I've never met anyone that was so congenial . 
But maybe you don't feel that way ? Then again maybe I do , rejoined she , forcing a merry smile . 
And he insisted , What were you looking for ? What were you looking for ? For a pretty girl . 
I'm suited if you are . 
You haven't answered my question . 
He smiled as if it were a joke . 
You mean for a place on the stage . 
I can see that at a glance . 
Why not ? Oh , you haven't been brought up to that kind of life . 
You'd hate it in every way . 
And they don't pay women anything for work . 
My father employs a lot of them . 
Most of his girls live at home . 
That keeps the wages down , and the others have to piece out with he smiled one thing and another . 
Susan sat gazing straight before her . 
I've not had much experience , she finally said , thoughtfully . 
I guess I don't know what I'm about . 
The young man leaned toward her , his face flushing with earnestness . 
You don't know how pretty you are . 
I wish my father wasn't so close with me . 
I'd not let you ever speak of work again even on the stage . 
What good times we could have ! I must be going , said she , rising . 
Her whole body was alternately hot and cold . 
In her brain , less vague now , were the ideas Mabel Connemora had opened up for her . 
Oh , bother ! exclaimed he . 
I don't mean I'm flat broke . 
Susan hastily reseated herself , showing her confusion . 
I wasn't thinking of that . 
I often don't exactly know what I'm thinking about . 
I somehow can't can't fit it together yet . 
Don't you like me a little ? She looked at him with grave friendliness . 
Then , seized with a terror which her habitual manner of calm concealed from him , she rose again . 
Why shouldn't it be me as well as another ? . 
At least sit down till I pay the bill . 
She seated herself , stared at her plate . 
Now what are you thinking about ? he asked . 
The waiter brought the bill . 
The young man merely glanced at the total , drew a small roll of money from his trousers pocket , put a five dollar note on the tray with the bill . 
Susan's eyes opened wide when the waiter returned with only two quarters and a dime . 
She glanced furtively at the young man , to see if he , too , was not disconcerted . 
He waved the tray carelessly aside the waiter said Thank you , in a matter of course way , dropped the sixty cents into his pocket . 
The waiter's tip was by itself almost as much as she had ever seen paid out for a meal for two persons . 
Now , where shall we go ? asked the young man . 
Susan did not lift her eyes . 
He leaned toward her , took her hand . 
You're different from the sort a fellow usually finds , said he . 
And I'm I'm crazy about you . 
Let's go , said he . 
Susan took her bundle , followed him . 
She glanced up the street and down . 
She had an impulse to say she must go away alone it was not strong enough to frame a sentence , much less express her thought . 
They went to Garfield Place , turned west , paused after a block or so at a little frame house set somewhat back from the street . 
The young man , who had been as silent as she but nervous instead of preoccupied opened the gate in the picket fence . 
This is a first class quiet place , said he , embarrassed but trying to appear at ease . 
She must somehow nerve herself to speak of money , to say to him that she needed ten dollars that she must have it . 
She tried to speak about the ten dollars . 
She simply could not force out the words . 
With brain in a whirl , with blood beating suffocatingly into her throat and lungs , but giving no outward sign of agitation , she entered the gate . 
There was a low , old fashioned porch along the side of the house , with an awning curiously placed at the end toward the street . 
When they ascended the steps under the awning , they were screened from the street . 
The young man pulled a knob . 
A bell within tinkled faintly Susan started , shivered . 
But the young man , looking straight at the door , did not see . 
A colored girl with a pleasant , welcoming face opened , stood aside for them to enter . 
He went straight up the stairs directly ahead , and Susan followed . 
At the threshold the trembling girl looked round in terror . 
She was in a small , attractively furnished room , with a bow window looking upon the yard and the street . 
The furniture reminded her of her own room at her uncle's in Sutherland , except that the brass bed was far finer . 
He closed the door and locked it . 
As he advanced toward her he said What are you seeing ? Please don't look like that . 
Persuasively , You weren't thinking of me were you ? No Oh , no , replied she , passing her hand over her eyes to try to drive away the vision of Ferguson . 
You look as if you expected to be murdered . 
Do you want to go ? She forced herself to seem calm . 
What a coward I am ! she said to herself . 
If I could only die for him , instead of this . 
And I must get money for him . 
To the young man she said No. I I want to stay . 
Late in the afternoon , when they were once more in the street , he said . 
I'd ask you to go to dinner with me , but I haven't enough money . 
An awful look came into her face . 
Don't be alarmed , cried he , hurried and nervous , and blushing furiously . 
I put the the present for you in that funny little bundle of yours , under one of the folds of the nightgown or whatever it is you've got wrapped on the outside . 
I didn't like to hand it to you . 
I've a feeling somehow that you're not regularly that kind . 
Was it ten dollars ? she said , and for all he could see she was absolutely calm . 
Yes , replied he , with a look of relief followed by a smile of amused tenderness . 
I can't make you out , he went on . 
You've had a look in your eyes all afternoon well , if I hadn't been sure you were experienced , you'd almost have frightened me away . 
Yes , I've had experience . 
The the worst , said the girl . 
I suppose it's his being sick that makes you look and act so queer ? I don't know what's the matter with me , she said slowly . 
I want to see you again soon . 
What's your address ? I haven't any . 
I've got to look for a place to live . 
Well , you can give me the place you did live . 
I'll write you there , Lorna . 
You didn't ask me my name when I asked you yours . 
Are you always quiet like this ? No not always . 
At Least , I haven't been . 
No. You weren't , part of the time this afternoon at the restaurant . 
Tell me , what are you thinking about all the time ? You're very secretive . 
Why don't you tell me ? Don't you know I like you ? I don't know , said the girl in a slow dazed way . 
I wouldn't take your time for nothing , he went on , after a pause . 
My father doesn't give me much money , but I think I'll have some more day after tomorrow . 
Can I see you then ? I don't know . 
Day after tomorrow afternoon in the same place . 
No matter if it's raining . 
I'll be there first at three . 
Will you come ? If I can . 
She made a movement to go . 
But still he detained her . 
He colored high again , in the struggle between the impulses of his generous youth and the fear of being absurd with a girl he had picked up in the street . 
He looked at her searchingly , wistfully . 
I know it's your life , but I hate to think of it , he went on . 
I don't see how you happened to be in in this line . 
Still , what else is there for a girl , when she's up against it ? I've often thought of those things and I don't feel about them as most people do . 
You'll pardon me , won't you ? I'm afraid I'll fall in love with you , if I see you often . 
You won't fail to come day after tomorrow ? If I can . 
Don't you want to see me again ? She did not speak or lift her eyes . 
You like me , don't you ? Still no answer . 
You don't want to be questioned ? No , said the girl . 
Where are you going now ? To the hospital . 
May I walk up there with you ? I live in Clifton . 
I can go home that way . 
Then good by till day after tomorrow at three . 
He put out his hand he had to reach for hers and take it . 
You're not not angry with me ? No. His eyes lingered tenderly upon her . 
You are so sweet ! You don't know how I want to kiss you . 
Are you sorry to go sorry to leave me just a little ? . 
You don't like to be questioned . 
Well , good by , dear . 
Good by , she said and still without lifting her gaze from the ground she turned away , walked slowly westward . 
She had not reached the next street to the north when she suddenly felt that if she did not sit she would drop . 
She lifted her eyes for an instant to glance furtively round . 
She saw a house with stone steps leading up to the front doors there was a for rent sign in one of the close shuttered parlor windows . 
She seated herself , supported the upper part of her weary body by resting her elbows on her knees . 
Her bundle had rolled to the sidewalk at her feet . 
A passing man picked it up , handed it to her , with a polite bow . 
She looked at him vaguely , took the bundle as if she were not sure it was hers . 
Heat been too much for you , miss ? asked the man . 
He lingered , talking volubly about the weather then about how cool it was on the hilltops . 
We might go up to the Bellevue , he finally suggested , if you've nothing better to do . 
No , thank you , she said . 
I'll go anywhere you like . 
I've got a little money that I don't care to keep . 
I don't mean anything bad , he hastened to suggest because that would bring up the subject in discussable form . 
I can't go with you , said the girl drearily . 
Don't bother me , please . 
And the man went on . 
Susan turned the bundle over in her lap , thrust her fingers slowly and deliberately into the fold of the soiled blouse which was on the outside . 
She drew out the money . 
A ten and two fives . 
Enough to keep his room at the hospital for two weeks . 
No , for she must live , herself . 
Enough to give him a room one week longer and to enable her to live two weeks at least . 
And day after tomorrow more . 
Perhaps , soon enough to see him through the typhoid . 
She put the money in her bosom , rose and went on toward the hospital . 
She no longer felt weary , and the sensation of a wound that might ache if she were not so numb passed away . 
A clerk she had not seen before was at the barrier desk . 
I came to ask how Mr. Burlingham is , said she . 
The clerk yawned , drew a large book toward him . 
Burlingham B Bu Bur he said half to himself , turning over the leaves . 
You his daughter ? No , I'm a friend . 
Oh then he died at five o'clock an hour ago . 
He looked up saw her eyes only her eyes . 
They were a deep violet now , large , shining with tragic softness like the eyes of an angel that has lost its birthright through no fault of its own . 
He turned hastily away , awed , terrified , ashamed of himself . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE next thing she knew , she felt herself seized strongly by the arm . 
She gazed round in a dazed way . 
She was in the street how she got there she had no idea . 
The grip on her arm it was the young doctor , Hamilton . 
I called you twice , explained he , but you didn't hear . 
He is dead , said she . 
Hamilton had a clear view of her face now . 
There was not a trace of the child left . 
He saw her eyes quiet , lonely , violet stars . 
You must go and rest quietly , he said with gentleness . 
Susan took from her bosom the twenty dollars , handed it to him . 
It belongs to him , said she . 
Give it to them , to bury him . 
Where are you going ? asked the young man . 
Susan stopped , looked vaguely at him . 
Good by , she said . 
You've found a boarding place ? Oh , I'm all right . 
You want to see him ? No. Then he'll always be alive to me . 
You had better keep this money . 
The city will take care of the funeral . 
I couldn't keep it for myself . 
Shan't I see you again ? I'll not trouble you . 
Let me walk with you as far as your place . 
I'm not feeling just right . 
If you don't mind please I'd rather be alone . 
I don't mean to intrude , but I'm all right , said the girl . 
But you are too young I've been married . 
Thank you , but good by . 
He could think of no further excuse for detaining her . 
Her manner disquieted him , yet it seemed composed and natural . 
It struck him as heartless that she should go away in this fashion but on second thought , he could not associate heartlessness with her . 
Also , he saw how there might be something in what she had said about not wishing to have to think of her friend as dead . 
He stood watching her straight narrow young figure until it was lost to view in the crowd of people going home from work . 
Susan went down Elm Street to Garfield Place , seated herself on one of the benches . 
She was within sight of the unobtrusive little house with the awnings but she did not realize it . 
She had no sense of her surroundings , of the passing of time , felt no grief , no sensation of any kind . 
She simply sat , her little bundle in her lap , her hands folded upon it . 
A man in uniform paused before her . 
Closing up time , he said , sharply but in the impartial official way . 
I'm going to lock the gates . 
In a softer , apologetic tone , he said , I've got to lock the gates . 
That's the law , miss . 
She did not clearly understand , but rose and went out into Race Street . 
She walked slowly along , not knowing or caring where . 
Sometimes her way lay through crowded streets , again through streets deserted . 
Now she was stumbling over the uneven sidewalks of a poor quarter again it was the smooth flagstones of the shopping or wholesale districts . 
Several times she saw the river with its multitude of boats great and small several times she crossed the canal . 
Occasionally some man spoke to her , but desisted as she walked straight on , apparently not hearing . 
She rested from time to time , on a stoop or on a barrel or box left out by some shopkeeper , or leaning upon the rail of a canal bridge . 
She was walking with a purpose to try to scatter the dense fog that had rolled in and enveloped her mind , and then to try to think . 
She sat , or rather dropped , down from sheer fatigue , in that cool hour which precedes the dawn . 
It happened to be the steps of a church . 
She fell into a doze , was startled back to consciousness by the deep boom of the bell in the steeple it made the stone vibrate under her . 
One two three four ! Toward the east there shone a flush of light , not yet strong enough to dim the stars . 
The sky above her was clear . 
The pall of smoke rolled away . 
The air felt clean and fresh , even had in it a reminiscence of the green fields whence it had come . 
She began to revive , like a sleeper shaking off drowsiness and the spell of a bad dream and looking forward to the new day . 
The fog that had swathed and stupefied her brain seemed to have lifted . 
A movement across the narrow street attracted her attention . 
A cellar door was rising thrust upward by the shoulders of a man . 
It fell full open with a resounding crash , the man revealed by the light from beneath a white blouse , a white cap . 
Toward her wafted the delicious odor of baking bread . 
She rose , hesitated only an instant , crossed the street directly toward the baker who had come up to the surface for cool air . 
I am hungry , said she to him . 
Can't you let me have something to eat ? The man he had a large , smooth , florid face eyed her in amused astonishment . 
Where'd you jump from ? he demanded . 
I was resting on the church steps over there . 
The smell came to me and I couldn't stand it . 
Oh , that's all right , said the man , with a strong German accent . 
And he descended the steps , she following . 
It was a large and lofty cellar , paved with cement floor , ceilings , walls , were whitened with flour . 
Susan's eyes glistened her white teeth showed in a delightful smile of hunger about to be satisfied . 
Do you want bread or rolls ? asked the German . 
Then without waiting for her to answer , I guess some of the sweet rolls , we call 'em , would about suit a lady . 
Yes the sweet rolls , said the girl . 
He set the little basket upon an empty kneading table . 
Wait yet a minute , he commanded , and bustled up a flight of stairs . 
He reappeared with a bottle of milk and a piece of fresh butter . 
He put these beside the basket of rolls , drew a stool up before them . 
How's that ? asked he , his hands on his hips , his head on one side , and his big jolly face beaming upon her . 
Pretty good , don't it ! Susan was laughing with pleasure . 
He pointed to the place well down in the bottle of milk where the cream ended . 
That's the way it should be always not so ! said he . 
Then he shook the bottle to remix the separated cream and milk . 
Then Ach , dummer Esel ! he muttered , striking his brow a resounding thwack with the flat of his hand . 
A knife ! And he hastened to repair that omission . 
Susan sat at the table , took one of the fresh rolls , spread butter upon it . 
The day will never come for her when she cannot distinctly remember the first bite of the little sweet buttered roll , eaten in that air perfumed with the aroma of baking bread . 
The milk was as fine as it promised to be she drank it from the bottle . 
The German watched her a while , then beckoned to his fellow workmen . 
They stood round , reveling in the joyful sight of this pretty hungry girl eating so happily and so heartily . 
The pie , whispered one workman to another . 
They brought a small freshly baked peach pie , light and crisp and brown . 
But , she said to her first friend among the bakers , I'm afraid I can't afford it . 
At this there was a loud chorus of laughter . 
Eat it , said her friend . 
And when she had finished her rolls and butter , she did eat it . 
I never tasted a pie like that , declared she . 
And I like pies and can make them too . 
Once more they laughed , as if she had said the wittiest thing in the world . 
As the last mouthful of the pie was disappearing , her friend said , Another ! Goodness , no ! cried the girl . 
I couldn't eat a bite more . 
But it's an apple pie . 
And he brought it , holding it on his big florid fat hand and turning it round to show her its full beauty . 
I simply can't , she said . 
How much is what I've had ? Her friend frowned . 
Oh , but I must pay , she pleaded . 
Not a cent ! said her friend firmly . 
She insisted until she saw she was hurting his feelings . 
Then she tried to thank him but he would not listen to that , either . 
Good by good by , he said gruffly . 
I must get to work once . 
But she understood , and went with a light heart up into the world again . 
He stood waist deep in the cellar , she hesitated upon the sidewalk . 
Good by , she said , with swimming eyes . 
You don't know how good you've been to me . 
Luck ! He waved his hand , half turned his back on her and looked intently up the street , his eyes blinking . 
She went down the street , turned the first corner , dropped on a doorstep and sobbed and cried , out of the fullness of her heart . 
When she rose to go on again , she felt stronger and gentler than she had felt since her troubles began with the quarrel over Sam Wright . 
A little further on she came upon a florist's shop in front of which a wagon was unloading the supply of flowers for the day's trade . 
She paused to look at the roses and carnations , the lilies and dahlias , the violets and verbenas and geraniums . 
The fast brightening air was scented with delicate odors . 
She was attracted to a small geranium with many buds and two full blown crimson flowers . 
How much for that ? she asked a young man who seemed to be in charge . 
Well , I reckon about fifteen cents , replied he . 
She took from her bosom the dollar bill wrapped round the eighty cents , gave him what he had asked . 
No , you needn't tie it up , said she , as he moved to take it into the store . 
She went back to the bakeshop . 
The cellar door was open , but no one was in sight . 
Stooping down , she called Mr. Baker ! Mr. Baker ! The big smooth face appeared below . 
She set the plant down on the top step . 
For you , she said , and hurried away . 
On a passing street car she saw the sign Eden Park . 
She had heard of it of its beauties , of the wonderful museum there . 
She took the next car of the same line . 
A few minutes , and it was being drawn up the inclined plane toward the lofty hilltops . 
She had thought the air pure below . 
She was suddenly lifted through a dense vapor the cloud that always lies over the lower part of the city . 
A moment , and she was above the cloud , was being carried through the wide , clean tree lined avenue of a beautiful suburb . 
On either side , lawns and gardens and charming houses , a hush brooding over them . 
Behind these walls , in comfortable beds , amid the surroundings that come to mind with the word home , lay many girls such as she happy , secure , sheltered . 
A wave of homesickness swept over her , daunting her for a little while . 
But she fought it down , watched what was going on around her . 
I mustn't look back I mustn't ! Nothing there for me . 
At the main gateway of the park she descended . 
There indeed was the , to her , vast building containing the treasures of art but she had not come for that . 
She struck into the first by path , sought out a grassy slope thickly studded with bushes , and laid herself down . 
She spread her skirts carefully so as not to muss them . 
She put her bundle under her head . 
When she awoke the moon was shining upon her face shining from a starry sky ! She sat up , looked round in wonder . 
Yes it was night again very still , very beautiful , and warm , with the air fragrant and soft . 
She felt intensely awake , entirely rested and full of hope . 
Peering through the dense bushes , she discovered on the grass in the shadow of the next clump , a ragged , dirty man and woman , both sound asleep and snoring gently . 
The man's face was deeply shaded by his battered straw hat . 
She gazed until the man , moving in his sleep , kicked out furiously and uttered a curse . 
She drew back , crawled away until she had put several clumps of bushes between her and the pair . 
She had forgotten her bundle ! She did not know how to find the place where she had left it and , had she known , she would not have dared return . 
This loss , however , troubled her little . 
Not in vain had she dwelt with the philosopher Burlingham . 
She seated herself on a bench and made herself comfortable . 
But she no longer needed sleep . 
She was awake wide awake in every atom of her vigorous young body . 
She was impatient for the dawn to give the signal for the future to roll up its curtain . 
True , her older way of wearing her hair and some slight but telling changes in her dress had made her look less the child . 
But she could not hope to pass for a woman full grown . 
If anyone had suddenly asked her who she was and she had tried to recall , she would have felt as if trying to remember a dream . 
Sutherland a faint , faint dream , and the show boat also . 
Spenser a romantic dream or a first installment of a lovestory read in some stray magazine . 
She was now glad she had lost her bundle . 
Without it her hands were free both hands free to take whatever might offer next . 
And she was eager to see what that would be , and hopeful about it no more than hopeful , confident . 
Leisurely as a truant she tramped back toward the city , pausing to observe anything that chanced to catch her eye . 
At the moment of her discovery of the difference between her and most girls there had begun a cleavage between her and the social system . 
And now she felt as if she were of one race and the rest of the world of another and hostile race . 
She did not realize it , but she had taken the first great step along the path that leads to distinction or destruction . 
For the world either obeys or tramples into dust those who , in whatever way , have a lot apart from the common . 
She was free from the bonds of convention free to soar or to sink . 
Her way toward the city lay along a slowly descending street that had been , not so very long before , a country road . 
Block after block there were grassy fields intersected by streets , as if city had attempted a conquest of country and had abandoned it . 
Again the vacant lots were disfigured with the ruins of a shanty or by dreary dump heaps . 
For long stretches the way was built up only on one side . 
The houses were for the most part tenement with small and unprosperous shops or saloons on the ground floor . 
Toward the foot of the hill , where the line of tenements was continuous on either side , she saw a sign Restaurant projecting over the sidewalk . 
When she reached it , she paused and looked in . 
A narrow window and a narrow open door gave a full view of the tiny room with its two rows of plain tables . 
Near the window was a small counter with a case containing cakes and pies and rolls . 
With back to the window sat a pretty towheaded girl of about her own age , reading . 
Susan , close to the window , saw that the book was Owen Meredith's Lucile , one of her own favorites . 
She could even read the words The ways they are many and wide , and seldom are two ways the same . 
Could I get a glass of milk and a roll ? asked Susan , a modest demand , indeed , on behalf of a growing girl's appetite twenty four hours unsatisfied . 
The blonde girl smiled , showing a clean mouth with excellent teeth . 
We sell the milk for five cents , the rolls three for a nickel . 
Then I'll take milk and three rolls , said Susan . 
May I sit at a table ? I'll not spoil it . 
That's what the tables are for . 
And the girl closed the book , putting a chromo card in it to mark her place , and stirred about to serve the customer . 
Susan took the table nearest the door , took the seat facing the light . 
The girl set before her a plate , a knife and fork , a little form of butter , a tall glass of milk , and three small rolls in a large saucer . 
You're up and out early ? she said to Susan . 
On one of those inexplicable impulses of frankness Susan replied I've been sleeping in the park . 
The girl had made the remark merely to be polite and was turning away . 
As Susan's reply penetrated to her inattentive mind she looked sharply at her , eyes opening wonderingly . 
Did you get lost ? Are you a stranger in town ? Why didn't you ask someone to take you in ? The girl reflected , realized . 
That's so , said she . 
I never thought of it before . 
Yes , that is so ! It must be dreadful not to have any place to go . 
She gazed at Susan with admiring eyes . 
Weren't you afraid up in the park ? No , replied Susan . 
I hadn't anything anybody'd want to steal . 
But some man might have The girl left it to Susan's imagination to finish the sentence . 
I hadn't anything to steal , repeated Susan , with a kind of cynical melancholy remotely suggestive of Mabel Connemora . 
The restaurant girl retired behind the counter to reflect , while Susan began upon her meager breakfast with the deliberation of one who must coax a little to go a great ways . 
Presently the girl said Where are you going to sleep tonight ? Oh , that's a long ways off , replied the apt pupil of the happy go lucky houseboat show . 
I'll find a place , I guess . 
The girl looked thoughtfully toward the street . 
I was wondering , she said after a while , what I'd do if I was to find myself out in the street , with no money and nowhere to go . 
Are you looking for something to do ? Do you know of anything ? asked Susan interested at once . 
There's a box factory down on the next square . 
But only a girl that lives at home can work there . 
Pa says the day's coming when women'll be like men work at everything and get the same wages . 
But it isn't so now . 
A girl's got to get married . 
Such a strange expression came over Susan's face that the waitress looked apologetic and hastened to explain herself I don't much mind the idea of getting married , said she . 
Only I'm afraid I can never get the kind of a man I'd want . 
The boys round here leave school before the girls , so the girls are better educated . 
It's dreadful to be above the people you know and not good enough for the people you'd like to know . 
Susan was not impressed she could not understand why the waitress spoke with so much feeling . 
Well , said she , pausing before beginning on the last roll , I don't care so long as I find something to do . 
There's another thing , complained the waitress . 
If you work in a store , you can't get wages enough to live on and you learn things , and want to live better and better all the time . 
And you can't marry the men who work at nice refined labor because they don't make enough to marry on . 
And if you work in a factory or as a servant , why all but the commonest kind of men look down on you . 
You may get wages enough to live on , but you can't marry or get up in the world . 
You're very ambitious , aren't you ? Indeed I am . 
I don't want to be in the working class . 
She was leaning over the counter now , and her blond face was expressing deep discontent and scorn . 
All of them who have any sense look down on themselves and wish they could get something respectable to do . 
Oh , you don't mean that , protested Susan . 
Any kind of work's respectable if it's honest . 
You can say that , retorted the girl . 
You don't belong in our class . 
You were brought up different . 
Susan shrank and grew crimson . 
The other girl did not see . 
She went on crossly Upper class people always talk about how fine it is to be an honest workingman . 
Let 'em try it a while . 
And pa says it'll never be straightened out till everybody has to work . 
What what does your father do ? He was a cabinetmaker . 
Then one of the other men tipped over a big chest and his right hand was crushed smashed to pieces , so he wasn't able to work any more . 
But he's mighty smart in his brains . 
It's the kind you can't make any money out of . 
He has read most everything . 
The trouble with pa was he had too much heart . 
He wasn't mean enough to try and get ahead of the other workmen , and rise to be a boss over them , and grind them down to make money for the proprietor . 
So he stayed on at the bench he was a first class cabinetmaker . 
The better a man is as a workman , and the nicer he is as a man , the harder it is for him to get up . 
Pa was too good at his trade and too soft hearted . 
Won't you have another glass of milk ? No thank you , said Susan . 
She was still hungry , but it alarmed her to think of taking more than ten cents from her hoard . 
Are you going to ask for work at the box factory ? I'm afraid they wouldn't take me . 
I don't know how to make boxes . 
Oh , that's nothing , assured the restaurant girl . 
It's the easiest kind of work . 
But then an educated person can pick up most any trade in a few days , well enough to get along . 
They'll make you a paster , at first . 
How much does that pay ? He'll offer you two fifty a week , but you must make him give you three . 
Then , if you stay on and work hard , you'll be raised to four after six months . 
Three dollars , said Susan . 
How much can I rent a room for ? The restaurant girl looked at her pityingly . 
Oh , you can't afford a room . 
You'll have to club in with three other girls and take a room together , and cook your meals yourselves , turn about . 
Susan tried not to show how gloomy this prospect seemed . 
I'll try , said she . 
She paid the ten cents her new acquaintance went with her to the door , pointed out the huge bare wooden building displaying in great letters J. C. Matson , Paper Boxes . 
You apply at the office , said the waitress . 
There'll be a fat black complected man in his shirt with his suspenders let down off his shoulders . 
He'll be fresh with you . 
He used to be a working man himself , so he hasn't any respect for working people . 
But he doesn't mean any harm . 
He isn't like a good many he lets his girls alone . 
Susan had not got far when the waitress came running after her . 
Won't you come back and let me know how you made out ? she asked , a little embarrassed . 
I hope you don't think I'm fresh . 
I'll be glad to come , Susan assured her . 
And their eyes met in a friendly glance . 
But I haven't any money , said Susan regretfully . 
And I couldn't take anything without paying . 
You could pay two dollars and a half a week and eat in with us . 
We couldn't afford to give you much for that , but it'd be better than what you'd get the other way . 
But you can't afford to do that . 
The restaurant girl's mind was aroused , was working fast and well . 
You can help in the restaurant of evenings , she promptly replied . 
I'll tell ma you're so pretty you'll draw trade . 
And I'll explain that you used to go to school with me and have lost your father and mother . 
Mine's Lorna Sackville , said Susan , blushing . 
I'll come after a while , and we'll talk about what to do . 
I may not get a place . 
Oh , you'll get it . 
He has hard work finding girls . 
Factories usually pay more than stores , because the work's more looked down on though Lord knows it's hard to think how anything could be more looked down on than a saleslady . 
I don't see why you bother about those things . 
What do they matter ? Why , everybody bothers about them . 
You were born a lady , and you'll always feel you've got social standing , and people'll feel that way too . 
But I wasn't , said Susan earnestly . 
I was born a a nobody . 
I can't tell you , but I'm just nobody . 
I haven't even got a name . 
You'll be sure to come ? You won't disappoint me ? Susan kissed Etta . 
Etta embraced Susan , her cheeks flushed , her eyes brilliant . 
I've taken an awful fancy to you , she said . 
I haven't ever had an intimate lady friend . 
I don't care for the girls round here . 
They're so fresh and common . 
Ma brought me up refined she's not like the ordinary working class woman . 
It hurt Susan deeply why , she could not have quite explained to hear Etta talk in this fashion . 
And in spite of herself her tone was less friendly as she said , I'll come when I find out . 
CHAPTER XIX IN the office of the factory Susan found the man Etta described . 
He was seated , or , rather , was sprawled before an open and overflowing rolltop desk , his collar and cuffs off , and his coat and waistcoat also . 
His feet broad , thick feet with knots at the great toe joints bulging his shoes were hoisted upon the leaf of the desk . 
He was as unconscious as she of the cause and meaning of these movements . 
Had he awakened to what he was doing he would probably have been angered against himself and against her and the direction of Susan Lenox's life would certainly have been changed . 
Those who fancy the human animal is in the custody of some conscious and predetermining destiny think with their vanity rather than with their intelligence . 
A careful look at any day or even hour of any life reveals the inevitable influence of sheer accidents , most of them trivial . 
And these accidents , often the most trivial , most powerfully determine not only the direction but also the degree and kind of force what characteristics shall develop and what shall dwindle . 
You seem to have a nut on you , said the box manufacturer at the end of the examination . 
I'll start you at three . 
Susan , thus suddenly placed in the world and ticketed with a real value , was so profoundly excited that she could not even make a stammering attempt at expressing gratitude . 
Do your work well , continued Matson , and you'll have a good steady job with me till you get some nice young fellow to support you . 
Don't let 'em touch you till you're engaged and not much then till the preacher's said the word . 
Thank you , said Susan , trying to look grave . 
She was fascinated by his curious habit of scratching himself as he talked head , ribs , arm , legs , the backs of his red hairy hands . 
Stand 'em off , pursued the box maker , scratching his ribs and nodding his huge head vigorously . 
That's the way my wife got me . 
It's pull Dick pull devil with the gals and the boys . 
And the gal that's stiff with the men gets a home , while her that ain't goes to the streets . 
I always gives my gals a word of good advice . 
And many a one I've saved . 
There's mighty few preachers does as much good as me . 
When can you go to work ? Susan reflected . 
With heightened color and a slight stammer she said , I've got something to do this afternoon , if you'll let me . 
Can I come in the morning ? Seven sharp . 
We take off a cent a minute up to a quarter of an hour . 
If you're later than that , you get docked for the day . 
I didn't climb to the top from spittoon cleaner in a saloon fifteen years ago by being an easy mark for my hands . 
I'll come at seven in the morning , said Susan . 
Do you live far ? I'm going to live just up the street . 
It adds ten cents a day to your wages the ten you'll save in carfare . 
Sixty cents a week ! And Matson beamed and scratched as if he felt he had done a generous act . 
Who are you livin' with ? Respectable , I hope . 
With Miss Brashear I think . 
Oh , yes Tom Brashear's gal . 
Tom's an honest fellow used to make good money till he had his hard luck . 
Him and me used to work together . 
But he never could seem to learn that it ain't workin' for yourself but makin' others work for you that climbs a man up . 
I never was much as a worker . 
I was always thinkin' out ways of makin' people work for me . 
And here I am at the top . 
And where's Tom ? Well run along now what's your name ? Lorna Sackville . 
He burst into a loud guffaw . 
Lord , what a name ! Sounds like a theayter . 
Susan nodded with laughing eyes , thanked him and departed . 
She glanced up the street , saw Etta standing in the door of the restaurant . 
Etta did not move from her own doorway , though she was showing every sign of anxiety and impatience . 
I can't leave even for a minute so near the dinner hour , she explained when Susan came , or I'd , a' been outside the factory . 
And ma's got to stick to the kitchen . 
I see you got a job . 
How much ? Three , replied Susan . 
He must have offered it to you , said Etta , laughing . 
I thought about it after you were gone and I knew you'd take whatever he said first . 
Oh , I've been so scared something'd happen . 
I do want you as my lady friend . 
Was he fresh ? Not a bit . 
Susan felt that she owed her benefactor a strong protest . 
Maybe I'm foolish , said she , but I'm awful glad he's got that place and can give me work . 
Etta was neither convinced nor abashed . 
You don't understand things in our class , replied she . 
Pa says it was the kind of grateful thinking and talking you've just done that's made him poor in his old age . 
He says you've either got to whip or be whipped , rob or be robbed and that the really good honest people are the fools who take the losing side . 
But he says , too , he'd rather be a fool and a failure than stoop to stamping on his fellow beings and robbing them . 
And I guess he's right there Etta laughed though I'll admit I'd hate to be tempted with a chance to get up by stepping on somebody . 
And sometimes I can't help wishing pa had done some tramping and stamping . 
Why not ? That's all most people are fit for to be tramped and stamped on . 
Now , don't look so shocked . 
Wait till you've been at work a while . 
I'm going to work at seven in the morning . 
I might as well have gone today . 
I had a kind of an engagement I thought I was going to keep , but I've about decided I won't . 
Etta watched with awe and delight the mysterious look in Susan's suddenly flushed face and abstracted eyes . 
After a time she ventured to interrupt with You'll try living with us ? If you're quite sure did you talk to your mother ? Mother'll be crazy about you . 
She wants anything that'll make me more contented . 
The tenement was of rather a superior class . 
But to Susan it seemed full of noisome smells , and she was offended by the halls littered with evidences of the uncleanness of the tenants . 
However , once inside the Brashear flat , she had an instant rise of spirits . 
Isn't this nice ? exclaimed she as Etta showed her , at a glance from the sitting room , the five small but scrupulously clean rooms . 
I'll like it here ! Etta reddened , glanced at her for signs of mockery , saw that she was in earnest . 
I'm afraid it's better to look at than to live in , she began , then decided against saying anything discouraging . 
It seems cramped to us , said she , after the house we had till a couple of years ago . 
I guess we'll make out , somehow . 
The family paid twenty dollars a month for the flat . 
The restaurant earned twelve to fifteen a week and the son , Ashbel , stocky , powerful and stupid , had a steady job as porter at ten a week . 
He gave his mother seven , as he had a room to himself and an enormous appetite . 
He talked of getting married if he did marry , the family finances would be in disorder . 
Altogether , the Brashears were in excellent shape for a tenement family , were better off than upwards of ninety per cent of the families of prosperous and typical Cincinnati . 
While it was true that old Tom Brashear drank , it was also true that he carefully limited himself to two dollars a week . 
Also , old Brashear had the sagacity and the nagging habit that are necessary to keeping people and things up to the mark . 
He had ideas practical ideas as well as ideals far above his station . 
They lack , for instance , discrimination . 
But for one thing the Brashears would have been going up in the world . 
That thing was old Tom's honesty . 
The restaurant gave good food and honest measure . 
Therefore , the margin of profit was narrow too narrow . 
He knew what was the matter . 
But he remained honest therefore , remained in the working class , instead of rising among its exploiters . 
Whenever anybody in the working class has any imagination , he explained , he either kicks his way out of it into capitalist or into criminal or else he takes to drink . 
I ain't mean enough to be either a capitalist or a criminal . 
So , I've got to drink . 
Susan only too soon began to appreciate from her own experience what he meant . 
In the first few days the novelty pleased her , made her think she was going to be contented . 
But the novelty of folding and pasting boxes , of the queer new kind of girls who worked with her , hardly survived into the second week . 
She saw this life from the inside now as the comfortable classes never permit themselves to see it if they can avoid . 
Etta was bitterly discontented yet after all it was a vague endurable discontent . 
Susan had not merely heard of such a life she had lived it it , and no other . 
With a few exceptions the girls at the factory were woefully unclean about their persons . 
Susan did not blame them she only wondered at Etta the more , and grew to admire her and the father who held the whole family up to the mark . 
The show boat and the quarters at the hotel had been trying to Susan . 
But they had seemed an adventure , a temporary , passing phase , a sort of somewhat prolonged camping out lark . 
Now , she was settled down , to live , apparently for the rest of her life , with none of the comforts , with few of the decencies . 
She suspected that but for Etta's example she would be yielding , at least in the matter of cleanliness , when the struggle against dirt was so unequal , was thankless . 
Discouragement became her frequent mood she wondered if the time would not come when it would be her fixed habit , as it was with all but a handful of those about her . 
She saw with even quicker and more intelligently critical eyes the new thing , the good idea , the improvement on what she already knew . 
Etta's excitement over these commonplace rich people amused her . 
It was no drag upon her fancy , but the reverse , that she was sharing a narrow bed and a narrow room in a humble and tiny tenement flat . 
On one of these walks Etta confided to her the only romance of her life therefore the real cause of her deep discontent . 
It was a young man from one of these houses a flirtation lasting about a year . 
She assured Susan it was altogether innocent . 
Susan perhaps chiefly because Etta protested so insistently about her unsullied purity had her doubts . 
Then , said Etta , when I saw that he didn't care anything about me except in one way I didn't see him any more . 
I I've been sorry ever since . 
Susan did not offer the hoped for sympathy . 
Did you ever have anything like that happen to you ? inquired Etta . 
And what did you do ? I didn't want to see him any more . 
Why ? I don't know exactly . 
And you like him ? I think I would have liked him . 
You're sorry you stopped ? Sometimes , replied she , hesitatingly . 
She was beginning to be afraid that she would soon be sorry all the time . 
Every day the war within burst forth afresh . 
She reproached herself for her growing hatred of her life . 
But her efforts to make herself resigned and contented , to kill her doubts as to the goodness of goodness , were not successful . 
You're one of those that things happen to , the old cabinetmaker said to her on a September evening , as they sat on the sidewalk in front of the restaurant . 
The tenements had discharged their swarms into the hot street , and there was that lively panorama of dirt and disease and depravity which is fascinating to unaccustomed eyes . 
Yes , said Tom , things'll happen to you . 
What for instance ? she asked . 
You'll up and do something some day . 
You're settin' here just to grow wings . 
Some day swish ! and off you'll soar . 
It's a pity you was born female . 
Still there's a lot of females that gets up . 
Come to think of it , I guess sex don't matter . 
It's havin' the soul and mighty few of either sex has it . 
Oh , I'm like everybody else , said the girl with an impatient sigh . 
I dream , but it doesn't come to anything . 
No , you ain't like everybody else , retorted he , with a positive shake of his finely shaped head , thatched superbly with white hair . 
You ain't afraid , for instance . 
That's the principal sign of a great soul , I guess . 
Oh , but I am afraid , cried Susan . 
I've only lately found out what a coward I am . 
You think you are , said the cabinetmaker . 
There's them that's afraid to do , and don't do . 
Then there's them that's afraid to do , but goes ahead and does anyhow . 
I don't know where you came from oh , I heard Etta's accountin' for you to her ma , but that's neither here nor there . 
I don't know where you come from , and I don't know where you're going . 
But you ain't afraid and you have imagination and those two signs means something doing . 
Susan shook her head dejectedly it had been a cruelly hard day at the factory and the odors from the girls working on either side of her had all but overwhelmed her . 
Old Tom nodded with stronger emphasis . 
You're too young , yet , he said . 
And not licked into shape . 
Susan hoped so , but doubted it . 
For example , there was the matter of clothes . 
She had come with only what she was wearing . 
Chemises and corset covers she could not afford . 
She bought an untrimmed hat for thirty five cents and trimmed it with the cleaned ribbon from her summer sailor and a left over bit of skirt material . 
She also made herself a jacket that had to serve as wrap too and the materials for this took the surplus of her wages for another month . 
The cold weather had come , and she had to walk fast when she was in the open air not to be chilled to the bone . 
This training stood Susan in good stead now . 
It saved her from disaster from disintegration . 
She and Etta did some washing every night , hanging the things on the fire escape to dry . 
In this way she was able to be clean but in appearance she looked as poor as she was . 
She found a cobbler who kept her shoes in fair order for a few cents but nothing was right about them soon except that they were not down at the heel . 
She could recall how she had often wondered why the poor girls at Sutherland showed so little taste , looked so dowdy . 
And then she reflected that , if she had known , pleasure would have been impossible . 
She could see her bureau drawers , her closets at home . 
She had thought herself not any too well off . 
If she had had to pay carfare ten cents a day , sixty cents a week ! as did many of the girls who lived at home , she would have been ruined . 
Fear of disease , fear of maternity , yes . 
Soon her knowledge had seemed ignorance beside the knowledge of the very babies . 
It was a sad , sad puzzle . 
In former days Susan thought well of charity , as she had been taught . 
Old Tom Brashear gave her a different point of view . 
One day he insulted and drove from the tenement some pious charitable people who had come down from the fashionable hilltop to be good and gracious to their less fashionable fellow beings . 
What do they come here for ! To do good ! Yes to themselves . 
To make themselves feel how generous and sweet they was . 
Well , they'd better go home and read their Russia leather covered Bibles . 
No , he had himself born a bastard in a manger . 
Susan shivered , for the truth thus put sounded like sacrilege . 
Then a glow a glow of pride and of hope swept through her . 
That's the only place anybody can do any good any real helpin' and lovin' , man to man , and woman to woman . 
If you want to help anybody that's down , pull him up into your class first . 
You'll find plenty to do there . 
What , for instance ? asked Susan . 
She understood a little of what he had in mind , but was still puzzled . 
Them stall fed fakers I just threw out , the old man went on . 
But this ain't the Middle Ages . 
What's the truth about it ? I don't know , confessed Susan . 
Why , the big lower class is poor because the little upper class takes away from 'em and eats up all they toil and slave to make . 
Oh , it ain't the upper class's fault . 
They do it because they're ignorant more'n because they're bad , just as what goes on down here is ignorance more'n badness . 
But they do it , all the same . 
And they're ignorant and need to be told . 
Supposin' you saw a big girl out yonder in the street beatin' her baby sister . 
That's it exactly , exclaimed the old man , in triumph . 
And I say to them pious charity fakers , Git the hell out of here where you can't do no good . 
Git back to yer own class that makes all this misery , makes it faster'n all the religion and charity in the world could help it . 
Git back to yer own class and work with them , and teach them and make them stop robbin' and beatin' the baby . 
Yes , said the girl , you are right . 
But , Mr. Brashear , they meant well . 
The hell they did , retorted the old man . 
If they'd , a' had love in their hearts , they'd have seen the truth . 
Love's one of the greatest teachers in the world . 
If they'd , a' meant well , they'd , a' been goin' round teachin' and preachin' and prayin' at their friends and fathers and brothers , the plutocrats . 
They'd better go read about themselves in their Bible what Jesus says . 
He belonged to us and they crucified him . 
She envied the ignorant and the insensible their lack of consciousness of their own plight like the disemboweled horse that eats tranquilly on . 
A woman from the hilltop came in a carriage to see about a servant . 
What , then ? retorted he . 
Why , pretty soon wages'd be cut faster than they was when street carfares went down from ten cents to five . 
Whenever the workin' people arrange to live cheaper and to try to save something , down goes wages . 
No , they might as well drink . 
It helps 'em bear it and winds 'em up sooner . 
I tell you , it ain't the workin' people's fault it's the bosses , now . 
It's the system the system . 
A new form of slavery , this here wage system and it's got to go like the slaveholder that looked so copper riveted and Bible backed in its day . 
That idea of the system was beyond Susan . 
But not what her eyes saw , and her ears heard , and her nose smelled , and her sense of touch shrank from . 
No ambition and no reason for ambition . 
No real knowledge , and no chance to get any neither the leisure nor the money nor the teachers . 
No hope , and no reason for hope . 
No God and no reason for a God . 
Ideas beyond her years , beyond her comprehension , were stirring in her brain , were making her grave and thoughtful . 
Sometimes her heavy heart told her that the mystery was plain and the lesson easy hopelessness . 
For of all the sadness about her , of all the tragedies so sordid and unromantic , the most tragic was the hopelessness . 
It would be impossible to conceive people worse off it would be impossible to conceive these people better off . 
They were such a multitude that only they could save themselves and they had no intelligence to appreciate , no desire to impel . 
And the restaurant had been paying steadily less as the hard times grew harder and the cost of unadulterated and wholesome food mounted higher and higher . 
As the family sat silent and stupefied , old Tom looked up from his paper , fixed his keen , mocking eyes on Susan . 
Matson had too recently sprung from the working class and was too ignorant of everything outside his business to have made radical changes in his habits . 
Also he wore a somewhat better quality of clothing but he looked precisely what he was . 
Like all the working class above the pauper line , he made a Sunday toilet , the chief features of which were the weekly bath and the weekly clean white shirt . 
At sight of her his feet on the leaf of the desk wavered , then became inert it would not do to put on manners with any of the hands . 
Thanks to the bath , he was not exuding his usual odor that comes from bolting much strong , cheap food . 
Well , Lorny what's the kick ? inquired he with his amiable grin . 
His rise in the world never for an instant ceased to be a source of delight to him it and a perfect digestion kept him in a good humor all the time . 
I want to know , stammered Susan , if you can't give me a little more money . 
He laughed , eyeing her approvingly . 
Her clothing was that of the working girl but in her face was the look never found in those born to the modern form of slavery wage servitude . 
More money ! he chuckled . 
You have got a nerve ! when factories are shutting down everywhere and working people are tramping the streets in droves . 
I do about one fourth more than the best hands you've got , replied Susan , made audacious by necessity . 
And I'll agree to throw in my lunch time . 
Let me see , how much do you get ? Three dollars . 
And you aren't living at home . 
You must have a hard time . 
Not much over for diamonds , eh ? You want to hustle round and get married , Lorny . 
Looks don't last long when a gal works . 
But you're holdin' out better'n them that gads and dances all night . 
I help at the restaurant in the evening to piece out my board . 
I'm pretty tired when I get a chance to go to bed . 
So , you want more money . 
I watch all my gals I have to , to keep weedin' out the fast ones . 
I won't have no bad examples in my place ! As soon as I ketch a gal livin' beyond her wages I give her the bounce . 
Susan lowered her eyes and her cheeks burned not because Matson was frankly discussing the frivolous subject of sex . 
Still , the tenement female sex is as full of affectation as is the sex elsewhere . 
But , Susan , the curiously self unconscious , was incapable of affectation . 
Her indignation arose from her sense of the hideous injustice of Matson's discharging girls for doing what his meager wages all but compelled . 
Yes , I've been watching you , he went on , with a kind of a sort of a notion of makin' you a forelady . 
That'd mean six dollars a week . 
You've got the brains plenty of 'em . 
But you wouldn't be of no use to me as forelady . 
Why not ? asked Susan . 
Six dollars a week ! Affluence ! Wealth ! Matson took his feet down , relit his cigar and swung himself into an oracular attitude . 
What's manufacturin' ? Right down at the bottom , I mean . 
He looked hard at the girl . 
She looked receptively at him . 
Why , it's gettin' work out of the hands . 
You can steal 'em the minute the other fellow uses 'em . 
No , it's all in gettin' work out of the hands . 
Susan's expression suggested one who sees light and wishes to see more of it . 
He proceeded You work for me for instance , now , if every day you make stuff there's a profit of five dollars on , I get five dollars out of you . 
If I can push you to make stuff there's a profit of six dollars on , I get six dollars a dollar more . 
Clear extra gain , isn't it ? Now multiply a dollar by the number of hands , and you'll see what it amounts to . 
I see , said Susan , nodding thoughtfully . 
Well ! How did I get up ? Because as a foreman I knew how to work the hands . 
I knew how to get those extra dollars . 
And how do I keep up ? Because I hire forepeople that get work out of the hands . 
But her expression was a comment that was not missed by the shrewd Matson . 
Now , listen to me , Lorny . 
I want to give you a plain straight talk because I'd like to see you climb . 
Ever since you've been here I've been laughin' to myself over the way your forelady she's a fox , she is ! makes you the pacemaker for the other girls . 
She squeezes at least twenty five cents a day over what she used to out of each hand in your room because you're above the rest of them dirty , shiftless muttonheads . 
Susan flushed at this fling at her fellow workers . 
Dirty , shiftless muttonheads , repeated Matson . 
She could think of excuses perfect excuses . 
But the facts were about as he brutally put it . 
Oh , I know 'em . 
I've dealt with 'em all my life , pursued the box manufacturer . 
Now , Lorny , you ought to be a forelady . 
You've got to toughen up and stop bein' so polite and helpful and all that . 
You'll never get on if you don't toughen up . 
Be as sentimental as you like away from business , and after you've clum to the top . 
But not in business or while you're kickin' and scratchin' and clawin' your way up . 
Susan shook her head slowly . 
She felt painfully young and inexperienced and unfit for the ferocious struggle called life . 
Of course it's a hard world , said Matson with a wave of his cigar . 
But did I make it ? No , admitted Susan , as his eyes demanded a reply . 
Sure not , said he . 
And how's anybody to get up in it ? Is there any other way but by kickin' and stampin' , eh ? None that I see , conceded Susan reluctantly . 
None that is , declared he . 
Them that says there's other ways either lies or don't know nothin' about the practical game . 
Well , then ! Matson puffed triumphantly at the cigar . 
Meanwhile , I'll raise you , to spur the others on . 
I'll give you four a week . 
And he cut short her thanks with an Oh , don't mention it . 
I'm only doin' what's square what helps me as well as you . 
I want to encourage you . 
You don't belong down among them cattle . 
A girl with a bank account gets the pick of the beaux . 
And he nodded a dismissal . 
Matson , and his hands , bosses and workers , brutal , brutalizing each other more and more as they acted and reacted upon each other . 
Where would it end ? She was in dire need of underclothes . 
Also , her shoes , in spite of the money she had spent upon them , were about to burst round the edges of the soles . 
But she would not longer accept from the Brashears what she regarded as charity . 
You more than pay your share , what with the work you do , protested Mrs. Brashear . 
I'll not refuse the extra dollar because I've simply got to take it . 
But I don't want to pertend . 
The restaurant receipts began to fall with the increasing hardness of the times among the working people . 
Soon it was down to practically no profit at all that is , nothing toward the rent . 
Tom Brashear was forced to abandon his policy of honesty , to do as all the other purveyors were doing to buy cheap stuff and to cheapen it still further . 
He broke abruptly with his tradition and his past . 
It aged him horribly all in a few weeks but , at least , ruin was put off . 
Mrs. Brashear had to draw twenty of the sixty three dollars which were in the savings bank against sickness . 
Funerals would be taken care of by the burial insurance each member of the family , including Susan , had a policy . 
Those tenement people had no more notion of self restraint than had the better classes whose self indulgences maintain the vast army of doctors and druggists . 
And not only were the times hard , but the winter also . 
The sickness on every hand appalled Susan . 
And in the papers they talk about how rich and prosperous we are . 
I don't care to live ! It is too horrible , cried the girl . 
Oh , you mustn't take things so to heart , counseled he . 
Us that live this life can't afford to take it to heart . 
It seems worse every , day , she said . 
I try to fool myself , because I've got to stay and Oh , no , you haven't , interrupted he . 
Susan looked at him with a startled expression . 
It seemed to her that the old man had seen into her secret heart where was daily raging the struggle against taking the only way out open to a girl in her circumstances . 
It seemed to her he was hinting that she ought to take that way . 
If any such idea was in his mind , he did not dare put it into words . 
He simply repeated You won't stay . 
When the way opens you'll see it , and take it . 
There had long since sprung up between these two a sympathy , a mutual understanding beyond any necessity of expression in words or looks . 
She had never had this feeling for anyone , not even for Burlingham . 
This feeling for each other had been like that of a father and daughter who love each other without either understanding the other very well or feeling the need of a sympathetic understanding . 
There was a strong resemblance between Burlingham and old Tom . 
Both belonged to the familiar philosopher type . 
But , unlike the actor manager , the old cabinetmaker had lived his philosophy , and a very gentle and tolerant philosophy it was . 
She said I may not dare take it . 
You won't have no choice , replied he . 
You'll have to take it . 
And you'll get away from here . 
And you mustn't ever come back or look back . 
Rememberin' won't do us no good . 
I shan't ever forget , cried the girl . 
You must , said the old man firmly . 
He added , And you will . 
You'll have too much else to think about too much that has to be attended to . 
He told Susan the open secret of the meaning of most of these fires . 
And after he had cursed the fire fiends , he apologized for them . 
It's the curse of the system , explained he . 
It's all the curse of the system . 
These here storekeepers and the farmers the same way they think they're independent , but really they're nothin' but fooled slaves of the big blood suckers for the upper class . 
But these here little storekeepers , they're tryin' to escape . 
How does a man escape ? Why , by gettin' some hands together to work for him so that he can take it out of their wages . 
When you get together enough to hire help that's when you pass out of slavery into the master class master of slaves . 
Now , how can these little storekeepers like me get together enough to begin to hire slaves ? By a hundred tricks , every one of them wicked and mean . 
By skimpin' and slavin' themselves and their families , by sellin' short weight , by sellin' rotten food , by sellin' poison , by burnin' to get the insurance . 
These here arson fellows they're on the first rung of the ladder of success . 
You heard about that beautiful ladder in Sunday school , didn't you ? Yes , said Susan , that and a great many other lies about God and man . 
Susan had all along had great difficulty in getting sleep because of the incessant and discordant noises of the district . 
With the epidemic of fires she was once more restless and wakeful . 
Every day came news of fire somewhere in the tenement districts of the city , with one or more , perhaps a dozen , roasted to death , or horribly burned . 
A few weeks , however , and even that peril became so familiar that she slept like the rest . 
There were too many actualities of discomfort , of misery , to harass her all day long every time her mind wandered from her work . 
One night she was awakened by a scream . 
She leaped from bed to find the room filling with smoke and the street bright as day , but with a flickering evil light . 
Etta was screaming , Ashbel was bawling and roaring like a tortured bull . 
Susan , completely dazed by the uproar , seized Etta and dragged her into the hall . 
There were Mr. and Mrs. Brashear , he in his nightdress of drawers and undershirt , she in the short flannel petticoat and sacque in which she always slept . 
Ashbel burst out of his room , kicking the door down instead of turning the knob . 
Lorny , cried old Tom , you take mother and Etta to the escape . 
It was a penetrating cold night , with an icy drizzle falling . 
Nobody had saved anything worth while . 
The entire block was ablaze , was burning as if it had been saturated with coal oil . 
The owner's done this , said old Tom . 
I heard he was in trouble . 
But though he's a church member and what they call a philanthropist , I hardly thought he'd stoop to hirin' this done . 
If anybody's caught , it'll be some fellow that don't know who he did it for . 
About a hundred families were homeless in the street . 
Half a dozen patrol wagons and five ambulances were taking the people away to shelter , women and babies first . 
Then Susan and Etta and Ashbel , escorted by a policeman , set out for the station house . 
As they walked along , someone called out to the policeman Anybody killed at the fire , officer ? Six jumped and was smashed , replied the policeman . 
I seen three dead babies . 
But they won't know for several days how many it'll total . 
The station house was eleven long squares away . 
But before they started for it they were already at the lowest depth of physical wretchedness which human nerves can register thus , they arrived simply a little more numb . 
The big room , heated by a huge , red hot stove to the point where the sweat starts , was crowded with abject and pitiful human specimens . 
Even Susan , the most sensitive person there , gazed about with stolid eyes . 
Ashbel , his animal instinct roused by the sight of the stove , thrust the throng aside rudely as he pushed straight for the radiating center . 
Etta and Susan followed in his wake . 
The fierce heat soon roused them to the sense of their plight . 
Ashbel began to curse , Etta to weep . 
Beds and covers were gathered in by the police from everywhere in that district , were ranged upon the floor of the four rooms . 
The men were put in the cells downstairs the women and the children got the cots . 
Susan and Etta lay upon the same mattress , a horse blanket over them . 
Etta slept Susan , wide awake , lived in brain and nerves the heart breaking scenes through which she had passed numb and stolid . 
About six o'clock a breakfast of coffee , milk and bread was served . 
Ashbel demanded shoes , pants and a coat . 
I've got to get to my job , shouted he , or else I'll lose it . 
Then where in the hell'd we be ! His blustering angered the sergeant , who finally told him if he did not quiet down he would be locked in a cell . 
Susan interrupted , explained the situation , got Ashbel the necessary clothes and freed Etta and herself of his worse than useless presence . 
At Susan's suggestion such other men as had jobs were also fitted out after a fashion and sent away . 
Susan and Etta got some clothing , enough to keep them warm on their way through the streets to the hospital to which Brashear and his wife had been taken . 
Mrs. Brashear had died in the ambulance of heart disease , the doctors said , but Susan felt it was really of the sense that to go on living was impossible . 
And fond of her though she was , she could not but be relieved that there was one less factor in the unsolvable problem . 
She's better , off she said to Etta in the effort to console . 
But Etta needed no consolation . 
Ever so much better off , she promptly assented . 
Mother hasn't cared about living since we had to give up our little home and become tenement house people . 
As to Brashear , they learned that he was ill but they did not learn until evening that he was dying of pneumonia . 
The two girls and Ashbel were admitted to the ward where he lay one of a long line of sufferers in bare , clean little beds . 
Screens were drawn round his bed because he was dying . 
Do you want a preacher or a priest ? asked the nurse . 
Neither , replied the old man in gasps and whispers . 
If there is a God he'll never let anybody from this hell of a world into his presence . 
They might tell him the truth about himself . 
Oh , father , father ! pleaded Etta , and Ashbel burst into a fit of hysterical and terrified crying . 
The old man turned his dying eyes on Susan . 
He rested a few minutes , fixing her gaze upon his with a hypnotic stare . 
Then he began again You've got somethin' more'n a turnip on your shoulders . 
There was a man named Jesus once gasp gasp You've heard about him , but you don't know about him gasp gasp I'll tell you listen . 
He was a low fellow a workin' man same trade as mine born without a father born in a horse trough in a stable gasp gasp Susan leaned forward . 
Born without a father , she murmured , her eyes suddenly bright . 
And he saw he did Yes , he saw ! gasp gasp gasp And he said all men were brothers and that they'd find it out some day . 
And that feller Jesus saw it . 
Yes yes , cried Susan . 
I'll tell you what he was , said old Tom in a hoarse whisper . 
He was bigger'n that bigger'n that , little gal ! He was the first man that ever lived . 
He said , Give the weak a chance so as they kin git strong . 
He says The dying man fell back exhausted . 
Etta and Ashbel were overwhelmed afresh by the disgrace of having their parents buried in Potter's Field for the insurance money went for debts . 
They did not understand when Susan said , I think your father'd have liked to feel that he was going to be buried there because then he'll be with with his Friend . 
You know , He was buried in Potter's Field . 
In comfortable lives a bereavement is a contrast in the lives of the wretched it is but one more in the assailing army of woes . 
They bought on the installment plan nine dollars' worth of furniture the scant minimum of necessities . 
They calculated that , by careful saving , they could pay off the debt in a year or so unless one or the other fell ill or lost work . 
It's the best we can do , replied Susan . 
Maybe one of us'll get a better job . 
You could , I'm sure , if you had the clothes , said Etta . 
But not in those rags . 
If I had the clothes ? Where ? At Shillito's or one of the other department stores . 
They'd give us both places in one of the men's departments . 
They like pretty girls for those places if they're not giddy and don't waste time flirting but use flirtation to sell goods . 
But what's the sense in talking about it ? You haven't got the clothes . 
A saleslady's got to be counter dressed . 
She can look as bad as she pleases round the skirt and the feet . 
But from the waist up she has to look natty , if she wants wages . 
Susan had seen these girls she understood now why they looked as if they were the put together upper and lower halves of two different persons . 
She recalled that , even though they went into other business , they still retained the habit , wore toilets that were counterbuilt . 
She revolved the problem of getting one of these toilets and of securing a store job . 
But she soon saw it was hopeless , for the time . 
Every cent the three had was needed to keep from starving and freezing . 
Also though she did not realize it her young enthusiasm was steadily being sapped by the life she was leading . 
It may have been this rather than natural gentleness or perhaps it was as much the one as the other that kept Susan from taking Matson's advice and hardening herself into a forelady . 
But she was no longer quite so straight , and her hair , which it was a sheer impossibility to care for , was losing its soft vitality . 
She was still pretty , but not the beauty she had been when she was ejected from the class in which she was bred . 
However , she gave the change in herself little thought it was the rapid decline of Etta's prettiness and freshness that worried her most . 
Not many weeks after the fire and the deeper plunge , she began to be annoyed by Ashbel . 
In his clumsy , clownish way he was making advances to her . 
Several times he tried to kiss her . 
She had long known that he was in reality very different from the silent restrained person fear of his father made him seem to be . 
But she thought even the reality was far above the rest of the young men growing up among those degrading influences . 
The intrusion into her room was on a Sunday on the following Sunday he came back as soon as Etta went out . 
Look here , Lorny , said he , with blustering tone and gesture , I want to have a plain talk with you . 
I'm sick and tired of this . 
There's got to be a change . 
Sick of what ? asked Susan . 
Of the way you stand me off . 
He plumped himself sullenly down on the edge of hers and Etta's bed . 
I can't afford to get married . 
I've got to stick by you two . 
It strikes me , Ashbel , we all need each other . 
Who'd marry you on seven a week ? She laughed good humoredly . 
Anyhow , you wouldn't support a wife . 
It takes the hardest kind of work to get your share of the expenses out of you . 
You always try to beat us down to letting you off with two fifty a week . 
That's about all Etta pays . 
It's about all she gets . 
I guess you know when you're well off . 
But I ain't well off , he cried . 
I'm a grown up man and I've got to have a woman . 
Susan had become used to tenement conditions . 
She said , practically , Well there's your left over four dollars a week . 
Think I'm goin' to run any risks ? I'm no fool . 
I take care of my health . 
Well don't bother me with your troubles at least , troubles of that sort . 
Yes , but I will ! shouted he , in one of those sudden furies that seize upon the stupid ignorant . 
You needn't act so nifty with me . 
I'm as good as you are . 
I'm willing to marry you . 
No , thanks , said Susan . 
I'm not free to marry even if I would . 
Oh you ain't ? For an instant his curiosity , as she thus laid a hand upon the curtain over her past , distracted his uncertain attention . 
Then you'll have to live with me , anyhow . 
I can't stand it , and I'm not goin' to . 
If you want me to stay on here , and help out , you've got to treat me right . 
Other fellows that do as I'm doing get treated right . 
And I've got to be , too or I'll clear out . 
And he squirmed , and waggled his head and slapped and rubbed his heavy , powerful legs . 
Why , Ashbel , said Susan , patting him on the shoulder . 
You and I are like brother and sister . 
You might as well talk this way to Etta . 
He gave her a brazen look , uttered a laugh that was like the flinging out of a bucket of filth . 
Why not ? Other fellows that have to support the family and can't afford to marry gets took care of . 
But Ashbel did not notice it . 
It ain't a question of Etta , he went on . 
There's you and I don't need to look nowhere else . 
At any rate , she had no sense of shock . 
You'd better go and chase yourself round the square a few times , said she , turning away and taking up some mending . 
You see , there ain't no way out of it , pursued he , with an insinuating grin . 
Susan gave him a steady , straight look . 
Don't ever speak of it again , said she quietly . 
You ought to be ashamed and you will be when you think it over . 
I mean what I say . 
If you don't do the square thing by me , you drive me out . 
He came hulking up to her , tried to catch her in his big powerful arms . 
She put the table between him and her . 
He kicked it aside and came on . 
She saw that her move had given him a false impression a notion that she was afraid of him , was coquetting with him . 
She opened the door leading into the front part of the flat where the Quinlan family lived . 
If you don't behave yourself , I'll call Mr. Quinlan , said she , not the least bluster or fear or nervousness in her tone . 
What'd be the use ? He'd only laugh . 
Why , the same thing's going on in their family . 
Still , he'd lynch you if I told him what you were trying to do . 
Even Ashbel saw this familiar truth of human nature . 
The fact that Quinlan was guilty himself , far from staying him from meting out savage justice to another , would make him the more relentless and eager . 
All right , said he . 
Then you want me to git out ? I want you to behave yourself and stay on . 
Go take a walk , Ashbel . 
But his expression was not reassuring Susan feared he had no intention of accepting his defeat . 
However , she reasoned that numbskull though he was , he yet had wit enough to realize how greatly to his disadvantage any change he could make would be . 
I've found a place where I'll be treated right . 
He looked haughtily at Susan . 
And the daughter's a good looker , too . 
She's got some weight on her . 
She ain't like a washed out string . 
What a low down thing you are ! she cried . 
Just like the rest of these filthy tenement house animals . 
I thought you had some pride . 
Oh , shut up ! bawled Ashbel . 
You're not such a much . 
What're we , anyhow , to put on airs ? We're as common as dirt yes , and that sniffy lady friend of yours , too . 
Where'd she come from , anyhow ? Some dung pile , I'll bet . 
He went into his room , reappeared with his few belongings done into a bundle . 
So long , said he , stalking toward the hall door . 
Etta burst into tears , caught him by the arm . 
You ain't goin' , are you , Ashy ? cried she . 
And he shook her off . 
I'm not goin' to be saddled with two women that ain't got no gratitude . 
My God , Lorna ! wailed Etta . 
Susan shook her head , went to the window and gazed into the snowy dreary prospect of tenement house yards . 
Ashbel , who had been hesitating through hope , vented a jeering laugh . 
Ain't she the insultin'est , airiest lady ! sneered he . 
But , Ashy , you haven't paid for last week yet , pleaded Etta , clinging to his arm . 
You kin have my share of the furniture for that . 
The furniture ! Oh , my God ! shrieked Etta , releasing him to throw out her arms in despair . 
How'll we pay for the furniture if you go ? Ask your high and mighty lady friend , said her brother . 
And he opened the door , passed into the hall , slammed it behind him . 
Susan waited a moment for Etta to speak , then turned to see what she was doing . 
She had dropped into one of the flimsy chairs , was staring into vacancy . 
We'll have to give up these rooms right away , said Susan . 
Etta roused herself , looked at her friend . 
And Susan saw what Etta had not the courage to express that she blamed her for not having made the best of it and kept Ashbel . 
And Susan was by no means sure that the reproach in Etta's eyes and heart were not justified . 
I couldn't do it , Etta , she said with a faint suggestion of apology . 
Men are that way , said Etta sullenly . 
Oh , I don't blame him , protested Susan . 
But I can't do it , Etta I simply can't ! No , said Etta . 
I could , but you couldn't . 
I'm not as far down as Ashbel . 
I'm betwixt and between so I can understand you both . 
You go and make up with him and let me look after myself . 
No , said she without any show of sentiment , but like one stating an unalterable fact . 
I've got to stay on with you . 
I can't live without you . 
I don't want to go down . 
I want to go up . 
Up ! Susan smiled bitterly . 
Silence fell between them , and Susan planned for the new conditions . 
She did not speak until Etta said , What ever will we do ? We've got to give up the furniture . 
Thank goodness , we've paid only two fifty on it . 
Yes , it's got to go , said Etta . 
And we've got to pay Mrs. Quinlan the six we owe her and get out tonight . 
We'll go up to the top floor up to Mrs. Cassatt . 
An hour later they had moved for Mrs. Quinlan was able to find two lodgers to take the rooms at once . 
Yet they often laughed and joked with each other , with their fellow workers . 
There would have been to their mirth a little more than mere surface and youthful ability to find some jest in the most crushing tragedy if only they could have kept themselves clean . 
The lack of sufficient food was a severe trial , for both had voracious appetites Etta was tormented by visions of quantity , Susan by visions of quality as well as of quantity . 
But only at meal times , or when they had to omit a meal entirely , were they keenly distressed by the food question . 
The inability to keep clean was the trial of trials . 
From her beginning at the box factory the physical uncleanness of the other girls had made Susan suffer keenly . 
And her suffering can be understood only by a clean person who has been through the same ordeal . 
She knew that her fellow workers were not to blame . 
She even envied them the ignorance and the insensibility that enabled them to bear what , she was convinced , could never be changed . 
But she also saw many signs that religion was fast losing its hold . 
One day a Lutheran girl , Emma Schmeltz , said during a Monday morning lunch talk Well , anyhow , I believe it's all a probation , and everything'll be made right hereafter . 
I believe my religion , I do . 
Yes , we'll be rewarded in the hereafter . 
Becky Rebecca Lichtenspiel laughed , as did most of the girls . 
Said Becky And there ain't no hereafter . 
Did you ever see a corpse ? Ain't they the dead ones ! Don't talk to me about no hereafter . 
But this was a Monday morning conversation , high above the average of the girls' talk in intelligence and liveliness . 
Their minds had been stimulated by the Sunday rest from the dreary and degenerating drudgery of honest toil . 
It was the physical contacts that most preyed upon Susan . 
Tongue could not tell what she suffered through the persistent affectionateness of Letty Southard , a sweet and pretty young girl of wretchedly poor family who developed an enormous liking for her . 
So no one , not even Etta , suspected what she was going through . 
However , so long as she had a home with the Brashears there was the nightly respite . 
But now There was little water , and only a cracked and filthy basin to wash in . 
There was no chance to do laundry work for their underclothes must be used as night clothes also . 
To wash their hair was impossible . 
Does my hair smell as bad as yours ? said Etta . 
You needn't think yours is clean because it doesn't show the dirt like mine . 
Does my hair smell as bad as the rest of the girls' ? said Susan . 
Not quite , was Etta's consoling reply . 
By making desperate efforts they contrived partially to wash their bodies once a week , not without interruptions of privacy to which , however , they soon grew accustomed . 
Even personal pride , powerful in Susan and strong in Etta through Susan's example , was deserting them . 
They no longer minded Dan's sleeping in their room . 
To avoid this was impossible , as impossible as to avoid the parasites swarming in the bed , in the woodwork , in cracks of ceiling , walls , floor . 
They had been a high class artisan family until a few months before . 
They were swept without a breathing pause down to the bottom . 
Those who have always been accustomed to prosperity have no reserve of experience or courage to enable them to recuperate from sudden and extreme adversity . 
In an amazingly short time the Cassatts had become demoralized a familiar illustration of how civilization is merely a wafer thin veneer over most human beings as yet . 
Over how many is it more ? They fought after a fashion they fought valiantly . 
Thus she was helpless before the tenement conditions . 
She gave up , went soddenly about in rags with an incredibly greasy and usually dangling tail of hair . 
Why don't you tie up that tail , ma ? said the son Dan , who had ideas about neatness . 
What's the use ? said Mrs. Cassatt . 
What's the use of anything ? Ma don't want to look stylish and stuck up , said the daughter . 
Kate , the sixteen year old had a place as saleslady in a big shop in Fifth , Street her six dollars a week was the family's entire steady income . 
Being at the shop where finery was all the talk and sight and thought from opening until closing had developed in her a greedy taste for luxury . 
She pilfered from the stocks of goods within her reach and exchanged her stealings for the stealings of girls who happened to be able to get things more to her liking or need . 
But now that the family savings bank account was exhausted , all these pilferings had to go at once to the pawnshop . 
Kate grew more and more ill tempered as the family sank . 
Well , I for one don't have to stay in this slop barrel , Kate was always saying . 
Some fine morning I'll turn up missing and you'll see me in my own turnout . 
She was torturing her mother and father with the dread that she would leave the family in the lurch and enter a house of prostitution . 
More and more boldly Kate was announcing that she wasn't going to be a fool much longer . 
Dan , the fourteen year old boy , had attracted the attention of what Cassatt called a fancy lady who lived two floors below them . 
She made sometimes as much as nine or ten dollars a week and slept all day or lounged comfortably about in showy , tawdry stuff that in those surroundings seemed elegant luxury . 
She was caught by the boy's young beauty and strength , and was rapidly training him in every vice and was fitting him to become a professional seducer and lover . 
Said Mrs. Cassatt in one of her noisy wailing appeals to Dan You better keep away from that there soiled dove . 
They tell me she's a thief has done time has robbed drunken men in dark hallways . 
But there was this difference . 
The Cassatts , though they had always lived too near the slime to be nauseated by it , still found it disagreeable and in spots disgusting . 
When they go to buy a toothbrush they blush and stammer . 
Look at Lorna and Etta , Mrs. Cassatt was always saying to Kate . 
Well , I see 'em , Kate would reply . 
And I don't see much . 
Ain't you ashamed of yourself ! cried the mother . 
Them two lives straight and decent . 
And you're better off than they are . 
Don't preach to me , ma , sneered Kate . 
When I get ready I'll stop making a damn fool of myself . 
But the example of the two girls was not without its effect . 
They , struggling on in chastity against appalling odds , became the models , not only to Mrs. Cassatt , but all the mothers of that row held up to their daughters . 
The mothers all of them by observation , not a few by experience knew what the fancy lady's life really meant . 
And they strove mightily to keep their daughters from it . 
But Susan and Etta were peculiarly valuable as examples because they were making the fight alone and unaided . 
Thus , they were watched closely . 
In those neighborhoods everyone knows everyone's else business down to how the last cent is got and spent . 
Now they walked , ate their scanty , repulsive meals , dressed , worked , all in silence . 
When their eyes met both glanced guiltily away , each fearing the other would discover the thought she was revolving the thought of the streets . 
They slept badly Etta sometimes , Susan every night . 
For a long time after she came to the tenements she had not slept well , despite her youth and the dull toil that wore her out each day . 
And she had gradually acquired the habit of sleeping well that is , well for the tenement region where no one ever gets the rest without which health is impossible . 
I can't make it fit to wear , said she . 
It's too far gone I think her eyelids fluttered I'll go see some of the girls . 
Susan , who was darning seated on the one chair yes , it had once been a chair did not look up or speak . 
Etta put on her hat slowly . 
Then , with a stealthy glance at Susan , she moved slidingly toward the door . 
As she reached it Susan's hands dropped to her lap so tense were Etta's nerves that the gesture made her startle . 
Etta ! said Susan in an appealing voice . 
Etta's hand dropped from the knob . 
Well what is it , Lorna ? she asked in a low , nervous tone . 
Look at me , dear . 
Etta tried to obey , could not . 
Don't do it yet , said Susan . 
Wait a few more days . 
Wait for what ? I don't know . 
You get four , I get only three and there's no chance of a raise . 
I work slower instead of faster . 
I'm going to be discharged soon . 
I've got to go before I get sick and won't have anything to to sell . 
She stared at the remains of a cheap stocking in her lap . 
Yes , there was no doubt about it , Etta's health was going . 
Etta was strong , but she had no such store of strength to draw upon as had accumulated for Susan during the seventeen years of simple , regular life in healthful surroundings . 
Midway the boy stopped and eyed Susan's bare leg and foot , a grin of pleasure and amusement on his precociously and viciously mature face . 
My , but you keep clean , he cried . 
And you've got a mighty pretty foot . 
Minnie's is ugly as hell . 
Minnie was the fancy lady on the floor below my skirt , he called her . 
Susan evidently did not hear his compliment . 
Dan completed his sporting toilet with a sleeking down of his long greasy hair , took himself away to his girl . 
Susan was watching a bug crawl down the wall toward their bed with its stained and malodorous covers of rag . 
Etta was still standing by the door motionless . 
She sighed , once more put her hand on the knob . 
You've never been out , have you ? No , replied Etta . 
Susan began to put on her stocking . 
I'll go , said she . 
No ! cried Etta , sobbing . 
It don't matter about me . 
I'm bound to be sucked under . 
You've got a chance to pull through . 
Not a ghost of a chance , answered Susan . 
I know , but You've never been , continued Susan , fastening her shoe with its ragged string . 
You ! exclaimed Etta , horrified though unbelieving . 
Oh , no , you haven't . 
And worse ? repeated Etta . 
Is that what the look I sometimes see in your eyes when you don't know anyone's seeing is that what it means ? I suppose so . 
And you out there ! It doesn't mean much to me . 
Etta looked at her with eyes as devoted as a dog's . 
Then we'll go together , she said . 
Susan , pinning on her weather stained hat , reflected . 
Very well , she said finally . 
There's nothing lower than this . 
They said no more they went out into the clear , cold winter night , out under the brilliant stars . 
Several handsome theater buses were passing on their way from the fashionable suburb to the theater . 
But Susan's eyes were on the tenement they had just left . 
What are you looking at so queer ? asked Etta . 
I was thinking that we'll not come back here . 
Not come back home ! Susan gave a strange short laugh . 
No , we'll not come back home . 
There's no use doing things halfway . 
She admired the courage , but it terrified her . 
There's something something awful about you , Lorna , she said . 
You've changed till you're like a different person from what you were when you came to the restaurant . 
Sometimes that look in your eyes well , it takes my breath away . 
It takes my breath away , too . 
At the foot of the hill they took the shortest route for Vine Street , the highway of the city's night life . 
They came to a vast department store . 
Despite the cold the two girls lingered , going from window to window , their freezing faces pinched and purple , their eyes gazing hungrily . 
Now that we've tried 'em all on , said Susan with a short and bitter laugh , let's dress in our dirty rags again and go . 
Oh , I couldn't imagine myself in any of those things could you ? cried Etta . 
You were brought up to have those things , I know . 
But I'm going to have them . 
When ? said Etta , scenting romance . 
Soon ? As soon as I learn , was Susan's absent , unsatisfactory reply . 
Etta had gone back to her own misery and the contrasts to it . 
I get mad through and through , she cried , when I think how all those things go to some women women that never did work and never could . 
And they get them because they happen to belong to rich fathers and husbands or whoever protects them . 
It isn't fair ! It makes me crazy ! Susan gave a disdainful shrug . 
What's the use of that kind of talk ! said she . 
The thing is , we haven't got what we want , and we've got to get it and so we've got to learn how . 
I can't think of anything but the cold , said Etta . 
My God , how cold I am ! There isn't anything I wouldn't do to get warm . 
There isn't anything anybody wouldn't do to get warm , if they were as cold as this . 
It's all very well for warm people to talk Oh , I'm sick of all the lying and faking , anyhow . 
Do you believe in hell , Lorna ? Not in a hot one , said Susan . 
Soon they struck into Vine Street , bright as day almost , and lined with beer halls , concert gardens , restaurants . 
Through the glass fronts crowds of men and women were visible contented faces , well fed bodies , food on the tables or inviting looking drink . 
Along the sidewalk poured an eager throng , all the conspicuous faces in it notable for the expectancy of pleasure in the eyes . 
Isn't this different ! exclaimed Etta . 
She tossed her head in a reckless gesture . 
I don't care what becomes of me , said she . 
I'm ready for anything except dirt and starvation . 
Nevertheless , they hurried down Vine Street , avoiding the glances of the men and behaving as if they were two working girls in a rush to get home . 
Susan was astonished that she remembered all the actress had told her remembered it easily , as if she had often thought of it , had used the knowledge habitually . 
They arrived at Fountain Square , tired from the long walk . 
They were both relieved and depressed that nothing had happened . 
We might go round the fountain and then back , suggested Susan . 
They made the tour less rapidly but still keeping their heads and their glances timidly down . 
They were numb with the cold now . 
To the sharp agony had succeeded an ache like the steady grinding pain of rheumatism . 
Etta broke the silence with , Maybe we ought to go into a house . 
A house ! Oh you mean a a sporting house . 
Thus , prostitution as an industry was in the main segregated in certain streets and certain houses and the prostitutes were a distinct class . 
You haven't been ? inquired Etta . 
Dan Cassatt and Kate told me about those places , Etta went on . 
But I I think I'd stay in the house . 
I want to be my own boss , said Susan . 
There's another side than what Kate says , continued Etta as consecutively as her chattering teeth would permit . 
She heard from a madam that wants her to come . 
But Dan heard from Minnie she used to be in one and she says the girls are slaves , that they're treated like dogs and have to take anything . 
She says it's something dreadful the way men act even the gentlemen . 
She says the madam fixes things so that every girl always owes her money and don't own a stitch to her back , and so couldn't leave if she wanted to . 
That sounds more like the truth , said Susan . 
But we may have to go , pleaded Etta . 
It's awful cold and if we went , at least we'd have a warm place . 
If we wanted to leave , why , we couldn't be any worse off for clothes than we are . 
Susan had no answer for this argument . 
They went several squares up Vine Street in silence . 
Then Etta burst out again I'm frozen through and through , Lorna , and I'm dead tired and hungry . 
The wind's cutting the flesh off my bones . 
What in the hell does it matter what becomes of us ? Let's get warm , for God's sake . 
Let's go to a house . 
They're in Longworth Street the best ones . 
And she came to a halt , forcing Susan to halt also . 
It happened to be the corner of Eighth Street . 
Susan saw the iron fence , the leafless trees of Garfield Place . 
Let's go down this way , said she . 
I had luck here once . 
Luck ! said Etta , her curiosity triumphant over all . 
Susan's answer was a strange laugh . 
Ahead of them , a woman warmly and showily dressed was sauntering along . 
That's one of them , said Etta . 
Let's see how she does it . 
We've got to learn quick . 
I can't stand this cold much longer . 
The two girls , their rags fluttering about their miserable bodies , kept a few feet behind the woman , watched her with hollow eyes of envy and fear . 
Tears of anguish from the cold were streaming down their cheeks . 
Soon a man alone a youngish man with a lurching step came along . 
They heard the woman say , Hello , dear . 
Don't be in a hurry . 
He tried to lurch past her , but she seized him by the lapel of his overcoat . 
Lemme go , said he . 
You're old enough to be a grandmother , you old hag . 
You're the kind of a lively , joky fellow I like . 
Go to hell , gran'ma , said the man , roughly shaking her off and lurching on toward the two girls . 
He stopped before them , eyed them by the light of the big electric lamp , grinned good naturedly . 
What've we got here ? said he . 
The woman rushed toward the girls , pouring out a stream of vileness . 
You git out of here ! she shrilled . 
You chippies git off my beat . 
I'll have you pinched I will ! Shut up ! cried the drunken man , lifting his fist . 
Let these ladies alone , they're friends of mine . 
Do you want me to call the cop ? The woman glanced toward the corner where a policeman was standing , twirling his club . 
She turned away , cursing horribly . 
Dirty old hag isn't she ? said he . 
Don't look so scared , birdies . 
He caught them each by an arm , stared woozily at Etta . 
You're a good little looker , you are . 
I I can't leave my lady friend , Etta succeeded in chattering . 
Your lady friend ? He turned his drunken head in Susan's direction , squinted at her . 
He was rather good looking . 
Fact is , I'm so soused I thought I was seein' double . 
Why , you're a peach . 
And he released his hold on Etta to seize her . 
Come right along , my lovey dovey dear . 
Susan drew away she was looking at him with terror and repulsion . 
The icy blast swept down the street , sawed into her flesh savagely . 
I'll give you five , said the drunken man . 
He grabbed her arm , waved his other hand at Etta . 
Susan heard Etta's gasp of horror . 
She wrenched herself free again . 
I guess I'd better go with him , said she to Etta . 
Oh , Lorna ! she moaned . 
You go into the restaurant on the corner and get something to eat , and wait for me . 
We can afford to spend the money . 
And you'll be warm there . 
Here ! Here ! cried the tipsy man . 
What're you two whispering about ? Come along , skinny . 
And he made coarse and pointed remarks about the sluggishness of fat women , laughing loudly at his own wit . 
The two girls did not hear . 
The wind straight from the Arctic was plying its hideous lash upon their defenseless bodies . 
Come on , lovey ! cried the man . 
Let's go in out of the cold . 
Oh , Lorna ! You can't go with a drunken man ! I'll I'll take him . 
I can stand it better'n you . 
You can go when there's a gentleman You don't know , said Susan . 
Didn't I tell you I'd been through the worst ? Are you coming ? broke in the man , shaking his head to scatter the clouds over his sight . 
Wait in the restaurant , said she to Etta . 
Didn't I tell you I'm a nobody . 
This is what's expected of me . 
The wind clawed and tore at her quivering flesh . 
She yielded to the tipsy man's tugging at her arm . 
Etta stood as if paralyzed , watching the two move slowly westward . 
But cold soon triumphed over horror . 
She retraced her steps toward Vine Street . 
At the corner stood an elderly man with an iron gray beard . 
She merely glanced at him in passing , and so was startled when he said in a low voice Go back the way you came . 
She glanced at him again , saw a gleam in his eyes that assured her she had not imagined the request . 
Trembling and all at once hot , she kept on across the street . 
But instead of going into the restaurant she walked past it and east through dark Eighth Street . 
A few yards , and she heard a quiet step behind her . 
A few yards more , and the lights of Vine Street threw a man's shadow upon the sidewalk beside her . 
From sheer fright she halted . 
The man faced her a man old enough to be her father , a most respectable , clean looking man with a certain churchly though hardly clerical air about him . 
Good evening , miss , said he . 
Good evening , she faltered . 
I'm a stranger in town to buy goods and have a little fun , stammered he with a grotesque attempt to be easy and familiar . 
I thought maybe you could help me . 
A little fun ! Etta's lips opened , but no words came . 
The cold was digging its needle knives into flesh , into bone , into nerve . 
Through the man's thick beard and mustache came the gleam of large teeth , the twisting of thick raw lips . 
A little fun ! Would it , continued the man , nervously , would it be very dear ? I I don't know , faltered Etta . 
I could afford say he looked at her dress say two dollars . 
I I And again Etta could get no further . 
The room'd be a dollar , pleaded the man . 
I I can't , burst out Etta , hysterical . 
Oh , please let me alone . 
I I'm a good girl , but I do need money . 
Oh , for God's sake I'm so cold so cold ! The man was much embarrassed . 
Oh , I'm sorry , he said feelingly . 
That's right keep your virtue . 
Go home to your parents . 
He was at ease now his voice was greasy and his words sleek with the unction of an elder . 
I thought you were a soiled dove . 
I'm glad you spoke out glad for my sake as well as your own . 
I've got a daughter about your age . 
Go home , my dear , and stay a good girl . 
I know it's hard sometimes but never give up your purity never ! And he lifted his square topped hard hat and turned away . 
Suddenly Etta felt again the fury of the winter night and icy wind . 
As that wind flapped her thin skirt and tortured her flesh , she cried , Wait please . 
I was just just fooling . 
The man had halted , but he was looking at her uncertainly . 
Etta put her hand on his arm and smiled pertly up at him smiled as she had seen other street girls smile in the days when she despised them . 
I'll go if you'll give me three . 
I I don't think I care to go now . 
You sort of put me out of the humor . 
She gave a reckless laugh . 
God , how cold it is ! Anybody'd go to hell to get warm a night like this . 
You are a very pretty girl , said the man . 
He was warmly dressed his was not the thin blood of poverty . 
He could not have appreciated what she was feeling . 
You're sure you want to go ? You're sure it's your your business ? Yes . 
I'm strange in this part of town . 
Do you know a place ? An hour later Etta went into the appointed restaurant . 
Her eyes searched anxiously for Susan , but did not find her . 
She inquired at the counter . 
No one had asked there for a young lady . 
This both relieved her and increased her nervousness Susan had not come and gone but would she come ? Etta was so hungry that she could hold out no longer . 
She sat at a table near the door and took up the large sheet on which was printed the bill of fare . 
She was almost alone in the place , as it was between dinner and supper . 
She read the bill thoroughly , then ordered black bean soup , a sirloin steak and German fried potatoes . 
She ordered the soup , to stay her while the steak was broiling . 
As soon as the waiter set down bread and butter she began upon it greedily . 
As the soup came , in walked Susan calm and self possessed , Etta saw at first glance . 
You'll have a plate of soup ? asked Etta , trying to look and speak in unconcerned fashion . 
No , thank you , replied Susan , seating herself opposite . 
There's a steak coming a good sized one , the waiter said it'd be . 
Aren't you hungry ? I don't know . 
Susan was gazing straight ahead . 
Her eyes were distinctly gray gray and as hard as Susan Lenox's eyes could be . 
What're you thinking about ? I don't know , she laughed queerly . 
Was it dreadful ? A pause , then Nothing is going to be dreadful to me any more . 
It's all in the game , as Mr. Burlingham used to say . 
Burlingham who's he ? It was Etta's first faint clew toward that mysterious past of Susan's into which she longed to peer . 
Oh a man I knew . 
A long pause , Etta watching Susan's unreadable face . 
At last she said You don't seem a bit excited . 
Susan came back to the present . 
Don't I ? Your soup's getting cold . 
Etta ate several spoonfuls , then said with an embarrassed attempt at a laugh , I I went , too . 
Susan slowly turned upon Etta her gaze the gaze of eyes softening , becoming violet . 
Etta's eyes dropped and the color flooded into her fair skin . 
He was an old man forty or maybe fifty , she explained nervously . 
He gave me two dollars . 
I nearly didn't get him . 
I lost my nerve and told him I was good and was only starting because I needed money . 
Never whine , said Susan . 
Take what comes , and wait for a winning hand . 
Etta looked at her in a puzzled way . 
How queer you talk ! Not a bit like yourself . 
You sound so much older . 
And your eyes they don't look natural at all . 
The last trace of gray was gone . 
They were of the purest , deepest violet , luminous , mysterious , with that awe inspiring expression of utter aloneness . 
But as Etta spoke the expression changed . 
The gray came back and with it a glance of irony . 
Said she Oh nonsense ! I'm all right . 
I didn't mind nearly as much as I thought I would . 
Yes , I'll get used to it . 
You mustn't , said Susan . 
We've got to do it , but we haven't got to get used to it , replied Susan . 
They had happened upon one of those famous Cincinnati chop houses where in plain surroundings the highest quality of plain food is served . 
You are hungry , aren't you , Lorna ? said Etta . 
Yes I'm hungry , declared Susan . 
Draught beer or bottled ? asked the waiter . 
Bring us draught beer , said Etta . 
I haven't tasted beer since our restaurant burned . 
I never tasted it , said Susan . 
But I'll try it tonight . 
Etta cut two thick slices from the steak , put them on Susan's plate with some of the beautifully browned fried potatoes . 
Gracious , they have good things to eat here ! she exclaimed . 
Then she cut two thick slices for herself , and filled her mouth . 
Her eyes glistened , the color came into her pale cheeks . 
Isn't it grand ! she cried , when there was room for words to pass out . 
Grand , agreed Susan , a marvelous change of expression in her face also . 
Etta drank a quarter of the tall glass at once . 
Susan tasted , rather liked the fresh bitter sweet odor and flavor . 
Is it very intoxicating ? she inquired . 
If you drink enough , said Etta . 
Susan took quite a drink . 
I feel a lot less tired already , declared she . 
Me too , said Etta . 
My , what a meal ! I never had anything like this in my life . 
When I think what we've been through ! Lorna , will it last ? We mustn't think about that , said Susan . 
Tell me what happened to you . 
He gave me the money , that was all . 
Then we've got seven dollars seven dollars and twenty cents , with what we brought away from home with us . 
Seven dollars and twenty cents , repeated Susan thoughtfully . 
Then a queer smile played around the corners of her mouth . 
Seven dollars that's a week's wages for both of us at Matson's . 
But I'd go back to honest work tomorrow if I could find a good job , Etta said eagerly too eagerly . 
Wouldn't you , Lorna ? I don't know , replied Susan . 
She had the inability to make pretenses , either to others or to herself , which characterizes stupid people and also the large , simple natures . 
Oh , you can't mean that ! protested Etta . 
Instead of replying Susan began to talk of what to do next . 
We must find a place to sleep , and we must buy a few things to make a better appearance . 
I don't dare spend anything yet , said Etta . 
I've got only my two dollars . 
Not that when this meal's paid for . 
We're going to share even , said Susan . 
As long as either has anything , it belongs to both . 
The tears welled from Etta's eyes . 
You are too good , Lorna ! You mustn't be . 
It isn't the way to get on . 
Anyhow , I can't accept anything from you . 
You wouldn't take anything from me . 
We've got to help each other up , insisted Susan . 
We share even and let's not talk any more about it . 
Now , what shall we get ? How much ought we to lay out ? The waiter here interrupted . 
Beg pardon , young ladies , said he . 
Over yonder , at the table four down , there's a couple of gents that'd like to join you . 
I seen one of 'em flash quite a roll , and they acts too like easy spenders . 
As Susan was facing that way , she examined them . 
They were young men , rather blond , with smooth faces , good natured eyes and mouths they were well dressed one , the handsomer , notably so . 
Susan merely glanced both men at once smiled at her with an unimpertinent audacity that probably came out of the champagne bottle in a silver bucket of ice on their table . 
Shall I tell 'em to come over ? said the waiter . 
She was calm , but Etta twitched with nervousness , saying , I wish I'd had your experience . 
I wish we didn't look so dreadful me especially . 
I 'm not pretty enough to stand out against these awful clothes . 
The two men were pushing eagerly toward them , the taller and less handsome slightly in advance . 
He said , his eyes upon Susan , We were lonesome , and you looked a little that way too . 
He glanced at the waiter . 
Another bottle of the same . 
I don't want anything to drink , said Susan . 
Nor I , chimed in Etta . 
The young man waved the waiter away with , Get it for my friend and me , then . 
He smiled agreeably at Susan . 
You won't mind my friend and me drinking ? Oh , no . 
And maybe you'll change your mind , said the shorter man to Etta . 
You see , if we all drink , we'll get acquainted faster . 
Don't you like champagne ? I never tasted it , Etta confessed . 
Neither did I , admitted Susan . 
You're sure to like it , said the taller man to Susan his friend presently addressed him as John . 
Noththing sic equal to it for making friends . 
I like it for itself , and I like it for the friends it has made me . 
Champagne was not one of the commonplaces of that modest chop house . 
So the waiter opened the bottle with much ceremony . 
Susan and Etta startled when the cork popped ceilingward in the way that in such places is still regarded as fashionable . 
They watched with interested eyes the pouring of the beautiful pale amber liquid , were fascinated when they saw how the bubbles surged upward incessantly , imprisoned joys thronging to escape . 
And after the first glass , the four began to have the kindliest feelings for each other . 
Sorrow and shame , poverty and foreboding , took wings unto themselves and flew away . 
They were ashamed of their own hands , were painfully self conscious whenever lifting the glass to the lips brought them into view . 
Susan's hands had not really been spoiled as yet . 
She had been proud of them and had taken care of them still , they were not the hands of a lady , but of a working girl . 
The young men had gentlemen's hands strong , evidently exercised only at sports , not at degrading and deforming toil . 
The shorter and handsomer youth , who answered to the name of Fatty , for obvious but not too obvious reasons , addressed himself to Etta . 
John who , it came out , was a Chicagoan , visiting Fatty fell to Susan . 
After two glasses Susan , warned by a slight dizziness , stopped drinking Etta followed her example . 
But the boys kept on , ordered a second bottle . 
This is the fourth we've had tonight , said Fatty proudly when it came . 
Don't it make you dizzy ? asked Etta . 
Not a bit , Fatty assured her . 
But she noticed that his tongue now swung trippingly loose . 
You haven't been at at this long , have you ? inquired John of Susan . 
Not long , replied she . 
Etta , somewhat giddied , overheard and put in , We began tonight . 
We got tired of starving and freezing . 
John looked deepest sympathy into Susan's calm violet gray eyes . 
I don't blame you , said he . 
A woman does have a a hades of a time ! We were going out to buy some clothes when you came , proceeded Etta . 
We're in an awful state . 
I wondered how two girls with faces like yours , said John , came to be dressed so so differently . 
That was what first attracted us . 
Then , as Etta and Fatty were absorbed in each other , he went on to Susan And your eyes I mustn't forget them . 
You certainly have got a beautiful face . 
And your mouth so sweet and sad but , what a lovely , lovely smile ! At this Susan smiled still more broadly with pleasure . 
I'm glad you're pleased , said she . 
Why , if you were dressed up You're not a working girl by birth , are you ? I wish I had been , said Susan . 
Oh , I think a girl's got as good a right as a man to have a good time , lied John . 
Don't say things you don't believe , said Susan . 
I can hand that back to you . 
You weren't frank , yourself , when you said you wished you'd been born in the class of your friend and of my friend Fatty , too . 
The champagne was dancing in her blood . 
She said with a reckless toss of the head I was born nothing . 
So I'm free to become anything I please anything except respectable . 
I'll tell you what let's do . 
We can help you girls select your things . 
We're going to buy about three dollars' worth . 
There won't be any selecting . 
We'll simply take the cheapest . 
Then let's go shopping , said John , and you two girls can help Fatty and me select clothes for you . 
That's the talk ! cried Fatty . 
And he summoned the waiter . 
The bill , said he in the manner of a man who likes to enjoy the servility of servants . 
We hadn't paid for our supper , said Susan . 
How much was it , Etta ? A dollar twenty five . 
We're going to pay for that , said Fatty . 
What d'ye take us for ? Oh , no . 
We must pay it , said Susan . 
No , said Susan quietly , ignoring Etta's wink . 
And from her bosom she took a crumpled five dollar bill . 
I should say you were new , laughed John . 
You don't even know where to carry your money yet . 
And they all laughed , Susan and Etta because they felt gay and assumed the joke whatever it was must be a good one . 
Then John laid his hand over hers and said , Put your money away . 
Susan looked straight at him . 
I can't allow it , she said . 
I'm not that poor yet . 
I beg your pardon , he said . 
And when the bill came he compelled Fatty to let her pay a dollar and a quarter of it out of her crumpled five . 
The two girls were fascinated by the large roll of bills fives , tens , twenties which Fatty took from his trousers pocket . 
They stared open eyed when he laid a twenty on the waiter's plate along with Susan's five . 
And it frightened them when he , after handing Susan her change , had left only a two dollar bill , four silver quarters and a dime . 
He gave the silver to the waiter . 
Was that for a tip ? asked Susan . 
I always give about ten per cent of the bill unless it runs over ten dollars . 
In that case a quarter a person as a rule . 
Of course , if the bill was very large , I'd give more . 
He was showing his amusement at her inquisitiveness . 
I wanted to know , explained she . 
I'm very ignorant , and I've got to learn . 
That's right , said John , admiringly with a touch of condescension . 
Don't be afraid to confess ignorance . 
I'm not , replied Susan . 
I used to be afraid of not being respectable and that was all . 
Now , I haven't any fear at all . 
You are a queer one ! exclaimed John . 
You oughtn't to be in this life . 
Where then ? asked she . 
I don't know , he confessed . 
Neither do I. Her expression suddenly was absent , with a quaint , slight smile hovering about her lips . 
She looked at him merrily . 
You see , it's got to be something that isn't respectable . 
What do you mean ? demanded he . 
Her answer was a laugh . 
Fatty declared it too cold to chase about afoot Anyhow , it's late nearly eleven , and unless we're quick all the stores'll be closed . 
The waiter called them a carriage its driver promised to take them to a shop that didn't close till midnight on Saturdays . 
Said Fatty , as they drove away Well , I suppose , Etta , you'll say you've never been in a carriage before . 
Oh , yes , I have , cried Etta . 
This made everyone laugh this and the champagne and the air which no longer seemed cruel to the girls but stimulating , a grateful change from the close warmth of the room . 
As the boys were smoking cigarettes , they had the windows down . 
The faces of both girls were flushed and lively , and their cheeks seemed already to have filled out . 
The four made so much noise that the crowds on the sidewalk were looking at them looking smilingly , delighted by the sight of such gayety . 
Susan was even gayer than Etta . 
The driver kept his promise eleven o'clock found them bursting into Sternberg's , over the Rhine a famous department store for Germans of all classes . 
They had an hour , and they made good use of it . 
Etta was for yielding to Fatty's generous urgings and buying right and left . 
But Susan would not have it . 
She told the men what she and Etta would take a simple complete outfit , and no more . 
Etta wanted furs and finery . 
Susan kept her to plain , serviceable things . 
Only once did she yield . 
When Etta and Fatty begged to be allowed a big showy hat , Susan yielded but gave John leave to buy her only the simplest of simple hats . 
You needn't tell me any yarns about your birth and breeding , said he in a low tone so that Etta should not hear . 
But that subject did not interest Susan . 
Let's forget it , said she , almost curtly . 
I've cut out the past and the future . 
And for me , too , protested he . 
I hope you're having as good fun as I am . 
This is the first time I've really laughed in nearly a year , said she . 
You don't know what it means to be poor and hungry and cold worst of all , cold . 
You unhappy child , said John tenderly . 
But Susan was laughing again , and making jokes about a wonderful German party dress all covered with beads and lace and ruffles and embroidery . 
When they reached the shoe department , Susan asked John to take Fatty away . 
He understood that she was ashamed of their patched and holed stockings , and hastened to obey . 
They were making these their last purchases when the big bell rang for the closing . 
I'm glad these poor tired shopgirls and clerks are set free , said John . 
It was one of those well meaning but worthless commonplaces of word kindness that get for their utterance perhaps exaggerated credit for good heart . 
Susan , conscience stricken , halted . 
And I never once thought of them ! she exclaimed . 
Shows what ? Oh , nothing . 
I must forget that , for I can't be happy again till I do . 
I understand now why the comfortable people can be happy . 
They keep from knowing or they make themselves forget . 
Why not ? said John . 
What's the use in being miserable about things that can't be helped ? No use at all , replied the girl . 
The carriage was so filled with their bundles that they had some difficulty in making room for themselves finally accomplished it by each girl sitting on her young man's lap . 
They drove to a quietly placed , scrupulously clean little hotel overlooking Lincoln Park . 
We're going to take rooms here and dress , explained Fatty . 
Then we'll wander out and have some supper . 
By this time Susan and Etta had lost all sense of strangeness . 
The spirit of adventure was rampant in them as in a dreaming child . 
They stood laughing and joking in the parlor while the boys registered then the four went up to two small but comfortable and fascinatingly clean rooms with a large bathroom between . 
Fatty and I will go down to the bar while you two dress , said John . 
Not on your life ! exclaimed Fatty . 
We'll have the bar brought up to us . 
But John , fortified by Susan's look of gratitude for his tactfulness , whispered to his friend what Susan could easily guess . 
And Fatty said , Oh , I never thought of it . 
Yes , we'll give 'em a chance . 
Don't be long , girls . 
Thank you , said Susan to John . 
Susan locked the hall door behind the two men . 
She rushed to the bathroom , turned on the hot water . 
Oh , Etta ! she cried , tears in her eyes , a hysterical sob in her throat . 
It was no easy matter to become clean again after all those months . 
But there was plenty of soap and brushes and towels , and at last the thing was accomplished . 
Then they tore open the bundles and arrayed themselves in the fresh new underclothes , in the simple attractive costumes of jacket , blouse and skirt . 
Susan had returned to her class , and had brought Etta with her . 
What shall we do with these ? asked Etta , pointing disdainfully with the toe of her new boot to the scatter of the garments they had cast off . 
Susan looked down at it in horror . 
Isn't life dreadful ? she cried . 
And she kicked together the tattered , patched , stained trash , kicked it on to a large piece of heavy wrapping paper she had spread out upon the floor . 
Thus , without touching her discarded self , she got it wrapped up and bound with a strong string . 
She rang for the maid , gave her a quarter and pointed to the bundle . 
Please take that and throw it away , she said . 
When the maid was gone Etta said I'm mighty glad to have it out of the room . 
Out of the room ? cried Susan . 
They put on their hats , admired themselves in the mirror , and descended Susan remembering halfway that they had left the lights on and going back to turn them off . 
The door boy summoned the two young men to the parlor . 
They entered and exclaimed in real amazement . 
For they were facing two extremely pretty young women , one dark , the other fair . 
The two faces were wreathed in pleased and grateful smiles . 
Don't we look nice ? demanded Etta . 
We sure did draw a pair of first prizes didn't we , Johnny ? John did not reply . 
He was gazing at Susan . 
Etta had young beauty but it was of the commonplace kind . 
In Susan's face and carriage there was far more than beauty . 
Where did you come from ? said John to her in an undertone . 
And where are you going ? Out to supper , I hope , laughed she . 
Your eyes change don't they ? I thought they were violet . 
Now I see they're gray gray as can be . 
That means seven clear days . 
A lot can be done in that time , with a little intelligent hustling . 
Never before had his own private opinion of himself received such a flatteringly sweeping indorsement from anyone who happened to impress him as worth while . 
In the last phrase lies the explanation of her success through a policy that is always dangerous and usually a failure . 
So it was settled that with the quiet little hotel as headquarters the four would spend a week in exploring Cincinnati as a pleasure ground . 
Gulick knew the town thoroughly . 
His father was a brewer whose name was on many a huge beer wagon drawn about those streets by showy Clydesdales . 
For Etta and Susan the city had meant shabby to filthy tenements , toil and weariness and sorrow . 
You would have said that Susan had slipped out of the tenement life as she had out of its garments , that she had retained not a trace of it even in memory . 
But in those days began her habit of never passing a beggar without giving something . 
Within three or four days this life brought a truly amazing transformation in the two girls . 
You would not have recognized in them the pale and wan and ragged outcasts of only the Saturday night before . 
Aren't you happy ? said Etta to Susan , in one of the few moments they were alone . 
But I don't need to ask . 
I didn't know you could be so gay . 
I had forgotten how to laugh , replied Susan . 
I suppose I ought to be ashamed , pursued Etta . 
Oh , you know why . 
You know how people'd talk if they knew . 
What people ? said Susan . 
Anyone who's willing to give you anything ? No , admitted Etta . 
Susan went on I don't propose to be bothered by the other kind . 
They wouldn't do anything for me if they could except sneer and condemn . 
Still , you know it isn't right , what we're doing . 
I know it isn't cold or hunger or rags and dirt and bugs , replied Susan . 
Those few words were enough to conjure even to Etta's duller fancy the whole picture to its last detail of loathsome squalor . 
Into Etta's face came a dazed expression . 
Was that really us , Lorna ? No , said Susan with a certain fierceness . 
But we must take care not to have that dream again . 
I'd forgotten how cold I was , said Etta hadn't you ? No , said Susan , I hadn't forgotten anything . 
Yes , I suppose it was all worse for you than for me . 
You used to be a lady . 
Don't talk nonsense , said Susan . 
I don't regret what I'm doing , Etta now declared . 
It was Gus that made me think about it . 
She looked somewhat sheepish as she went on to explain . 
I had a little too much to drink last night . 
And when Gus and I were alone , I cried for no reason except the drink . 
He asked me why and I had to say something , and it popped into my head to say I was ashamed of the life I was leading . 
As things turned out , I'm glad I said it . 
Of course , said Susan . 
You never saw anything like it , continued Etta with an expression suggesting a feeling that she ought to be ashamed but could not help being amused . 
He acted differently right away . 
Why don't you try it on John ? What for ? Oh , it'll make him make him have more more respect for you . 
Perhaps , said Susan indifferently . 
Don't you want John to to respect you ? I've been too busy having a good time to think much about him or about anything . 
Last night was the first time in my life I danced as much as I wanted to . 
Don't you like John ? Certainly . 
He does know a lot , doesn't he ? He's like you . 
He reads and and thinks and He's away ahead of Fatty except You don't mind my having the man with the most money ? Not in the least , laughed Susan . 
Money's another thing I'm glad to rest from thinking about . 
But this'll last only a few days longer . 
And If you managed John Redmond right , Lorna Now you must not try to make me think . 
Lorna are you really happy ? Can't you see I am ? Yes when we're all together . 
But when when you're alone with him Susan's expression stopped her . 
It was a laughing expression and yet Said Susan I am happy , dear very happy . 
I eat and drink and sleep and I am , oh , so glad to be alive . 
Isn't it good to be alive ! if you've got plenty , exclaimed Etta . 
This is the dream , Lorna and I think I'll kill myself if I have to wake . 
On Saturday afternoon the four were in one of the rooms discussing where the farewell dinner should be held and what they would eat and drink . 
Etta called Susan into the other room and shut the door between . 
Fatty wants me to go along with him and live in Detroit , said she , blurting it out as if confessing a crime . 
Isn't that splendid ! cried Susan , kissing her . 
He fell in love with you at first sight . 
But , Lorna I I don't know what to do ! Do ? Why , go . 
What else is there ? Go , of course . 
Oh , no , Lorna , protested Etta . 
I couldn't get along without you . 
Don't you love him ? Etta began to weep . 
That's the worst of it . 
I do love him so ! And I think he loves me and might marry me and make me a good woman again . 
You mustn't ever tell John or anybody about that that dreadful man I went with will you , dear ? What do you take me for ? said Susan . 
I've told Fatty I was a good girl until I met him . 
You haven't told John about yourself ? Susan shook her head . 
You really think I ought to go ? I know it . 
Etta was offended by Susan's positive , practical tone . 
I don't believe you care . 
Yes , I care , said Susan . 
But you're right to follow the man you love . 
Besides , there's nothing so good in sight here . 
What'll you do ? Oh , I can't go , Lorna ! Now , Etta , said Susan calmly , don't talk nonsense . 
I'll get along all right . 
You could find a job there , and we could live together . 
Would Fatty like that ? Etta flushed and glanced away . 
When he said this to Etta , she protested not very vigorously , because she wished him to think her really almost innocent . 
She wasn't quite easy in her mind as to whether she had been loyal to Lorna . 
But , being normally human , she soon almost convinced herself that but for Lorna she never would have made the awful venture . 
Men are fools about women . 
He thinks he likes in me what I haven't got at all . 
And I owe it all to you , Lorna . 
I don't care what he says , Lorna or does . 
The thing for you is to be straight get some kind of a job in Detroit make Fatty marry you quick ! He would , but his father'd throw him out . 
Not if you were an honest working girl . 
But Etta was silent and reflective for a moment . 
Men are so queer , she finally said . 
If I'd been an honest working girl he'd never have noticed me . 
It's because I am what I am that I've been able to get acquainted with him and fascinate him . 
And he feels it's a sporty thing to do to marry a fast girl . 
If I was to settle down to work , be a regular working girl why , I'm afraid he he'd stop loving me . 
Then , too , he likes to believe he's rescuing me from a life of shame . 
No doubt , said Susan drily . 
Oh , I know you think I'm deceitful . 
But a woman's got to be , with a man . 
And I care a lot about him aside from the fact that he can make me comfortable and and protect me from from the streets . 
If you cared for a man No , I guess you wouldn't . 
You oughtn't to be so so honest , Lorna . 
It'll always do you up . 
Susan laughed , shrugged her shoulders . 
I am what I am , said she . 
I can't be any different . 
If I tried , I'd only fail worse . 
You don't love John do you ? I like him . 
Then you wouldn't have to do much pretending , urged Etta . 
And what does a little pretending amount to ? That's what I say to myself , replied Susan thoughtfully . 
It isn't nearly as bad as as what we started out to do . 
Susan laughed at Etta's little hypocrisy for her respectability's comfort . 
As what we did and are doing , corrected she . 
Burlingham had taught her that it only makes things worse and more difficult to lie to oneself about them . 
But he hasn't money enough to ask you to come along . 
And Etta hesitated , eyed Susan doubtfully . 
You're sure you don't love him ? No. I couldn't love him any more than than I could hate him . 
Susan's strange look drifted across her features . 
It's very queer , how I feel toward men . 
But I don't love him and I shan't pretend . 
I want to , but somehow I can't . 
Etta felt that she could give herself the pleasure of unburdening herself of a secret . 
Then I may as well tell you , he's engaged to a girl he thinks he ought to marry . 
And you don't mind ? inquired Etta , unable to read Susan's queer expression . 
Except for him and her a little , replied Susan . 
I guess that's why I haven't liked him better haven't trusted him at all . 
Aren't men dreadful ! And he is so nice in many ways . 
Lorna Etta was weeping again . 
I can't go I can't . 
You've simply got to do it . 
And I do love him , said Etta , calmed again by Susan's calmness . 
And if he married me Oh , how grateful I'd be ! I should say ! exclaimed Susan . 
She kissed Etta and petted her . 
And he'll have a mighty good wife . 
Do you think I can marry him ? If you love him and don't worry about catching him . 
Etta shook her head in rejection of this piece of idealistic advice . 
But a girl's got to be shrewd . 
You ought to be more so , Lorna . 
That depends on what a girl wants , said Susan , absently . 
Upon what she wants , she repeated . 
What do you want ? inquired Etta curiously . 
I don't know , Susan answered slowly . 
I wish I knew what was going on in your head ! exclaimed Etta . 
So do I , said Susan , smiling . 
Do you really mind my going ? Really honestly ? There wasn't a flaw in Susan's look or tone . 
If you tried to stay with me , I'd run away from you . 
And if I do get him , I can help you . 
Once he's mine Etta rounded out her sentence with an expression of countenance which it was well her adoring rescuer did not see . 
Redmond came in , and Etta left him alone with Susan . 
Well , has Etta told you ? he asked . 
Yes , replied the girl . 
Are you going with her ? he asked . 
I hoped you liked me a little better than that , said he . 
It isn't a question of you . 
But it's a question of you with me , he cried . 
I'm in love with you , Lorna . 
I'm I'm tempted to say all sorts of crazy things that I think but haven't the courage to act on . 
He kneeled down beside her , put his arms round her waist . 
I'm crazy about you , Lorna . 
Tell me Were you Had you been before we met ? Yes , said Susan . 
Why don't you deny it ? he exclaimed . 
Why don't you fool me , as Etta fooled Gus ? Etta's story is different from mine , said Susan . 
She's had no experience at all , compared to me . 
I don't believe it , declared he . 
I know she's been stuffing Fatty , has made him think that you led her away . 
But I can soon knock those silly ideas out of his silly head It's the truth , interrupted Susan , calmly . 
You could be a good woman . 
Impulsively , If you'll settle down and be a good woman , I'll marry you . 
And ruin your prospects ? I don't care for prospects beside you . 
You are a good woman inside . 
The better I know you the less like a fast woman you are . 
Won't you go to work , Lorna , and wait for me ? Her smile had a little mockery in it now perhaps to hide from him how deeply she was moved . 
No matter what else I did , I'd not wait for you , Johnny . 
You're not a Johnny on the spot . 
You think I'm weak don't you ? he said . 
Then , as she did not answer , Well , I am . 
But I love you , all the same . 
For the first time he felt that he had touched her heart . 
The tears sprang to her eyes , which were not at all gray now but all violet , as was their wont when she was deeply moved . 
She laid her hands on his shoulders . 
Oh , it's so good to be loved ! she murmured . 
She asked , How long will that be ? I'll be admitted in two years . 
I'll soon have a practice . 
Susan looked at him sadly , slowly shook her head . 
Two years and then several years more . 
I was fooling , John about marrying . 
I liked to hear you say those things . 
I couldn't marry you if I would . 
Tell me about it won't you ? She looked at him in astonishment , so amazing seemed the idea that she could tell anyone that experience . 
She did not answer his appeal for her confidence but went on , Anyhow , nothing could induce me to go to work again . 
You don't realize what work means the only sort of work I can get to do . 
It's it's selling both body and soul . 
I prefer He kissed her to stop her from finishing her sentence . 
Don't please , he pleaded . 
In this life you'll soon grow hard and coarse and lose your beauty and your health and become a moral and physical wreck . 
She reflected , the grave expression in her eyes the expression that gave whoever saw it the feeling of dread as before impending tragedy . 
Yes I suppose so , she said . 
But Any sooner than as a working girl living in a dirty hole in a tenement ? No not so soon . 
And in this life I've got a chance if I'm careful of my health and and don't let things touch me . 
In that other there's no chance none ! What chance have you got in this life ? I don't know exactly . 
At worst , it's simply that I've got no chance in either life and this life is more comfortable . 
Comfortable ! With men you don't like frightful men Were you ever cold ? asked Susan . 
But it made no impression upon him who had no conception of the cold that knows not how it is ever to get warm again . 
He rushed on Lorna , my God ! He caught hold of her and strained her to his breast . 
You are lovely and sweet ! It's frightful you in this life . 
Her expression made the sobs choke up into his throat . 
She pushed him gently away . 
You haven't been through it . 
Comfortable people talk like fools about those things . 
Do you remember my hands that first evening ? He reddened and his eyes shifted . 
I'm absurdly sensitive about a woman's hands , he muttered . 
Oh , I saw how you couldn't bear to look at them how they made you shiver . 
Well , the hands were nothing nothing ! beside what you didn't see . 
Lorna , do you love someone else ? His eyes demanded an honest answer , and it seemed to her his feeling for her deserved it . 
But she could not put the answer into words . 
Then why he began impetuously . 
But there he halted , for he knew she would not lift the veil over herself , over her past . 
I'm very , very fond of you , she said with depressing friendliness . 
Then with a sweet laugh , You ought to be glad I'm not able to take you at your word . 
And you will be glad soon . 
What a good time we've had ! If I only had a decent allowance , like Fatty ! he groaned . 
No use talking about that . 
It's best for us to separate best for us both . 
You've been good to me you'll never know how good . 
And I can't play you a mean trick . 
I wish I could be selfish enough to do it , but I can't . 
Yes , I guess that's why I've got the courage to be square with you . 
Anyhow , John , you can't afford to care for me . 
And if I cared for you , and put off the parting why it'd only put off what I've got to go through with before She did not finish her eyes became dreamy . 
Before what ? he asked . 
I don't know , she said , returning with a sigh . 
Something I see yet don't see in the darkness , ahead of me . 
I can't make you out , cried he . 
When Redmond embraced and kissed her for the last time , he was in another and less sympathetic mood , was busy with his own wounds to vanity and perhaps to heart . 
He thought her heartless good and sweet and friendly , but without sentiment . 
She refused to help him make a scene she refused to say she would write to him , and asked him not to write to her . 
You know we'll probably see each other soon . 
Not till the long vacation not till nearly July . 
Oh , if you look at it that way ! said he , piqued and sullen . 
Girls had always been more than kind , more than eager , when he had shown interest . 
Etta , leaving on a later train , was even more depressed about Susan's heart . 
You're going to be happy , she said . 
And I'm not so selfish as to be wretched about it . 
And don't you worry a minute on my account . 
I'm better off in every way than I've ever been . 
I'll get on all right . 
I know you gave up John to help me with August . 
I know you mean to break off everything . 
Oh , Lorna , you mustn't you mustn't . 
Don't talk nonsense , was Susan's unsatisfactory reply . 
It did not last long . 
No matter how wildly shallow waters are stirred , they soon calm and murmur placidly on again . 
The three who had left her would have been amazed could they have seen her a few minutes after Etta's train rolled out of the Union Station . 
Susan hurried to the room they had helped her find the day before a room in a house where no questions were asked or answered . 
She locked herself in and gave way to the agonies of her loneliness . 
She saw her pocketbook on the floor where she had dropped it . 
I'll wait till my money's gone , thought she . 
If I really weren't harder than Etta , her thoughts ran on reproachfully , I'd not wait until the money went . 
I'd kill myself now , and have it over with . 
And she would have done it without any sense of sacrifice . 
She counted her money twenty three dollars in bills , and some change . 
Redmond had given her fifty dollars each time they had gone shopping , and had made her keep the balance his indirect way of adjusting the financial side . 
Twenty three dollars meant perhaps two weeks' living . 
Well , she would live those two weeks decently and comfortably and then bid life adieu unless something turned up for back to the streets she would not go . 
With Etta gone , with not a friend anywhere on earth , life was not worth the price she had paid for Etta and herself to the drunken man . 
She could talk about it to Redmond tranquilly . 
She could think about it in the abstract , could see how other women did it , and how those who had intelligence might well survive and lift themselves up in it . 
But do it she could not . 
So she resolved upon suicide , firmly believing in her own resolve . 
And she was not one to deceive herself or to shrink from anything whatsoever . 
The young must have something some hope , however fanatic and false to live for . 
They will not tarry just to live . 
And in that hour Susan had lost hope . 
She took off her street dress and opened her trunk to get a wrapper and bedroom slippers . 
As she lifted the lid , she saw an envelope addressed Lorna she remembered that Redmond had locked and strapped the trunk . 
She tore the end from the envelope , looked in . 
Some folded bills nothing more . 
I can pay ! she cried . 
The hat had cost only fourteen dollars because she had put it together herself if she had bought it made , she would have paid not less than thirty dollars . 
All these things she carefully unpacked and carefully laid out . 
Then she thoroughly brushed her hair and did it up in a graceful pompadour that would go well with the hat . 
She washed away the traces of her outburst of grief , went over her finger nails , now almost recovered from the disasters incident to the life of manual labor . 
She went on to complete her toilet , all with the same attention to detail a sure indication , in one so young , of a desire to please some specific person . 
There was now not a trace of the tenement working girl of a week and a day before . 
Here was beauty in bloom , fresh and alluring from head to narrow , well booted feet . 
Susan had indeed returned to her own class . 
She cast a coquettish glance down at her charmingly arrayed feet a harmless glance of coquetry that will be condemned by those whose physical vanity happens to center elsewhere . 
After this glance she dropped her skirts and was ready . 
By this time dusk had fallen , and it was nearly six o'clock . 
As she came out of the house she glanced toward the west the instinctive gesture of people who live in rainy climates . 
Her face brightened she saw an omen in the long broad streak of reddened evening sky . 
CHAPTER XXIII SHE went down to Fourth Street , along it to Race , to the Commercial building . 
At the entrance to the corridor at the far side of which were elevator and stairway , she paused and considered . 
She turned into the business office . 
He works upstairs , replied the old man , beaming approvingly upon the pretty , stylish young woman . 
Is he there now ? I'll telephone . 
He went into the rear office , presently returned with the news that Mr. Spenser had that moment left , was probably on his way down in the elevator . 
And you'll catch him if you go to the office entrance right away . 
She lost no time in retracing her steps . 
As she reached the office entrance she saw at the other end of the long hall two young men coming out of the elevator . 
The entrance light was dim , but as he glanced at her in passing he saw her looking at him and his hand moved toward his hat . 
His face had not changed the same frank , careless expression , the same sympathetic , understanding look out of the eyes . 
But he was the city man in dress now notably the city man . 
Mr. Spenser , said she shyly . 
He halted his companion went on . 
He lifted his hat , looked inquiringly at her the look of the enthusiast and connoisseur on the subject of pretty women , when he finds a new specimen worthy of his attention . 
Don't you know me ? His expression of puzzled and flirtatious politeness gradually cleared away . 
Then , to show him at once what a good excuse she had for intruding again , she hastened to add , I've come to pay you that money you loaned me . 
He burst out laughing , drew her into the corridor where the light was brighter . 
And you've gone back to your husband , he said she noted the quick , sharp change in his voice . 
Why do you think that ? she said . 
The way his eyes lingered upon the charming details toilet that indicated anything but poverty might of a have given her a simple explanation . 
It's your different expression a kind of experienced look . 
The color flamed and flared in Susan's face . 
You are happy ? he asked . 
I've not seen him , evaded she . 
Ever since I left Carrollton I've been wandering about . 
Wandering about ? he repeated absently , his eyes busy with her appearance . 
And now , she went on , nervous and hurried , I'm here in town for a while . 
Then I may come to see you ? I'd be glad . 
I'm alone in a furnished room I've taken out near Lincoln Park . 
Alone ! You don't mean you're still wandering ? Still wandering . 
Well , it certainly is doing you no harm . 
An embarrassed pause , then he said with returning politeness Maybe you'll dine with me this evening ? She beamed . 
I've been hoping you'd ask me . 
It won't be as good as the one on the rock . 
There never will be another dinner like that , declared she . 
Your leg is well ? Her question took him by surprise . 
The color poured into his face . 
Ages ago , he replied , hurriedly . 
I'd have forgotten it , if it hadn't been for you . 
I've never been able to get you out of my head . 
And as a matter of truth she had finally dislodged his cousin Nell without lingering long or vividly herself . 
Young Mr. Spenser was too busy and too self absorbed a man to bother long about any one flower in a world that was one vast field abloom with open petaled flowers . 
Nor I you , said she , as pleased as he had expected , and showing it with a candor that made her look almost the child he had last seen . 
You see , I owed you that money , and I wanted to pay it . 
Oh that was all ! exclaimed he , half jokingly . 
And he went to the door , looked up and down the street , then darted across it and disappeared into the St . 
He was not gone more than half a minute . 
I had to see Bayne and tell him , he explained when he was with her again . 
I was to have dined with him and some others over in the cafe . 
Instead , you and I will dine upstairs . 
You won't mind my not being dressed ? It seemed to her he was dressed well enough for any occasion . 
I'd rather you had on the flannel trousers rolled up to your knees , said she . 
But I can imagine them . 
What a dinner that was ! cried he . 
And the ride afterward , with an effort at ease that escaped her bedazzled eyes . 
Why didn't you ever write ? He expected her to say that she did not know his address , and was ready with protests and excuses . 
But she replied I didn't have the money to pay what I owed you . 
They were crossing Fourth Street and ascending the steps to the hotel . 
Then , too afterward when I got to know a little more about life I Oh , no matter . 
Really , the money was the only reason . 
But he had stopped short . 
I didn't blame you , protested the girl , even if it was so . 
I thought maybe you got to thinking it over and didn't want to be bothered with anyone so troublesome as I had made myself . 
It was merely an idea . 
And I didn't blame you not in the least . 
It would have been the sensible Next thing , this child woman , this mysterious mind of mixed precocity and innocence , would be showing that she had guessed a Cousin Nell . 
You are far too modest , interrupted he with a flirtatious smile . 
You didn't realize how strong an impression you made . 
No , I really broke my leg . 
Don't you suppose I knew the twenty five in the pocketbook wouldn't carry you far ? He saw and naturally misunderstood her sudden change of expression as he spoke of the amount . 
He went on apologetically , I intended to bring more when I came . 
I was afraid to put money in the note for fear it'd never be delivered , if I did . 
Your father's house it's a big brick , with stone trimmings , standing all alone outside the little town isn't it ? Spenser was again coloring deeply . 
Yes , admitted he uneasily . 
I saw the doctor and your family on the veranda , she said . 
He was now so nervous that she could not but observe it . 
They gave out that it was only a sprain , said he , because I told them I didn't want it known . 
I didn't want the people at the office to know I was going to be laid up so long . 
I was afraid I'd lose my job . 
I didn't hear anything about it , said she . 
I only saw as I was going by on a boat . 
He looked disconcerted but not to her eyes . 
Well it's far in the past now , said he . 
Let's forget all but the fun . 
Yes all but the fun . 
Then very sweetly , But I'll never forget what I owe you . 
Not the money not that , hardly at all but what you did for me . 
It made me able to go on . 
Don't speak of it , cried he , flushed and shamefaced . 
I didn't do half what I ought . 
Like most human beings he was aware of his more obvious if less dangerous faults and weaknesses . 
The only deep truth is that there are no generous natures but just natures and they are rarely classed as generous because their slowly formed resolves have the air of prudence and calculation . 
In the hotel she went to the dressing room , took twenty five dollars from the money in her stocking . 
As soon as they were seated in the restaurant she handed it to him . 
But this makes it you who are having me to dinner and more , he protested . 
If you knew what a weight it's been on me , you'd not talk that way , said she . 
Her tone compelled him to accept her view of the matter . 
He laughed and put the money in his waistcoat pocket , saying Then I'll still owe you a dinner . 
During the past week she had been absorbing as only a young woman with a good mind and a determination to learn the business of living can absorb . 
At a glance she realized that she was now in a place far superior to the Bohemian resorts which had seemed to her inexperience the best possible . 
She felt these new surroundings exquisitely the subdued coloring , the softened lights , the thick carpets , the quiet elegance and comfort of the furniture . 
Of the men she had known or known about he seemed to her far and away the best . 
It isn't necessary to explain into what an attitude of mind and heart this feeling of his high superiority immediately put her certainly not for the enlightenment of any woman . 
What are you thinking ? he asked the question that was so often thrust at her because , when she thought intensely , there was a curiosity compelling expression in her eyes . 
Oh about all this , replied she . 
I like this sort of thing so much . 
I never had it in my life , yet now that I see it I feel as if I were part of it , as if it must belong to me . 
Her eyes met his sympathetic gaze . 
You understand , don't you ? He nodded . 
And I was wondering she laughed , as if she expected even him to laugh at her I was wondering how long it would be before I should possess it . 
Do you think I'm crazy ? He shook his head . 
I've got that same feeling , said he . 
I'm poor don't dare do this often have all I can manage in keeping myself decently . 
Yet I have a conviction that I shall shall win . 
Don't think I'm dreaming of being rich not at all . 
I I don't care much about that if I did go into business . 
But I want all my surroundings to be right . 
And so shall I. I know it sounds improbable and absurd for me to say that about myself . 
I believe you , said he . 
You've got the look in your face in your eyes . 
I've never seen anyone improve as you have in this less than a year . 
She smiled as she thought in what surroundings she had apparently spent practically all that time . 
If you could have seen me ! she said . 
Yes , I was learning and I know it . 
I led a sort of double life . 
I she hesitated , gave up trying to explain . 
She had not the words and phrases , the clear cut ideas , to express that inner life led by people who have real imagination . 
With most human beings their immediate visible surroundings determine their life with the imaginative few their horizon is always the whole wide world . 
She sighed , But I'm ignorant . 
I don't know how or where to take hold . 
I can't help you there , yet , said he . 
When we know each other better , then I'll know . 
Not that you need me to tell you . 
You'll find out for yourself . 
She glanced round the attractive room again , then looked at him with narrowed eyelids . 
Only a few hours ago I was thinking of suicide . 
How absurd it seems now ! I'll never do that again . 
At least , I've learned how to profit by a lesson . 
Mr. Burlingham taught me that . 
Who's he ? That's a long story . 
I don't feel like telling about it now . 
But the mere suggestion had opened certain doors in her memory and crowds of sad and bitter thoughts came trooping in . 
Anything you can tell me about ? Oh , no nothing especial , replied she . 
Just loneliness and a feeling of of discouragement . 
Strongly , Just a mood . 
Please tell me what happened after I left you at that wretched hotel . 
I can't , she said . 
At least , not now . 
There is He looked sympathetically at her , as if to assure her that he would understand , no matter what she might confess . 
There is someone ? No. I'm all alone . 
It was not in the least degree an instinct for deception that made her then convey an impression of there having been no one . 
She was simply obeying her innate reticence that was part of her unusual self unconsciousness . 
And you're not worried about about money matters ? he asked . 
You see , I'm enough older and more experienced to give me excuse for asking . 
Besides , unless a woman has money , she doesn't find it easy to get on . 
I've enough for the present , she assured him , and the stimulus of the champagne made her look and feel much more self confident than she really was . 
More than I've ever had before . 
When anyone has been through what I have they aren't so scared about the future . 
I begin to hope so , said she . 
Yes you've got the signs of success in your face . 
Once you learn to know them , you never miss in sizing up people . 
Both were hungry , and it was as good a dinner as the discussion about it between Spenser and the waiter had forecast . 
Her face took on a new and finer beauty into his face came a tenderness that was most becoming to its rather rugged features . 
I've always been expecting to hear from you every day since we separated , he said and he was honestly believing it now . 
I've had a feeling that you hadn't forgotten me . 
It didn't seem possible I could feel so strongly unless there was real sympathy between us . 
I came as soon as I could . 
He reflected in silence a moment , then in a tone that made her heart leap and her blood tingle , he said You say you're free ? Free as air . 
Only I couldn't fly far . 
He hesitated on an instinct of prudence , then ventured . 
Far as New York ? What is the railroad fare ? Oh , about twenty five dollars with sleeper . 
Yes I can fly that far . 
Do you mean to say you've no ties of any kind ? None . 
Her eyes opened wide and her nostrils dilated . 
Free ! You love it don't you ? Don't you ? Above everything ! he exclaimed . 
She lifted her head higher in a graceful , attractive gesture of confidence and happiness . 
Well I am ready to live . 
I'm afraid you don't realize , he said hesitatingly . 
You've your reputation to think of , you know . 
She looked straight at him . 
I'm even free from reputation . 
Then , as his face saddened and his eyes glistened with sympathy , You needn't pity me . 
See where it's brought me . 
You're a strong swimmer aren't you ? he said tenderly . 
But then there isn't any safe and easy crossing to the isles of freedom . 
It's no wonder most people don't get further than gazing and longing . 
Probably I shouldn't , confessed Susan , if I hadn't been thrown into the water . 
It was a case of swim or drown . 
But most who try are drowned nearly all the women . 
Oh , I guess there are more survive than is generally supposed . 
So much lying is done about that sort of thing . 
What a shrewd young lady it is ! At any rate , you have reached the islands . 
But I'm not queen of them yet , she reminded him . 
I'm only a poor , naked , out of breath castaway lying on the beach . 
Very clever , this extremely pretty young woman . 
He lifted his champagne glass and watched the little bubbles pushing gayly and swiftly upward . 
So you've cast over your reputation . 
I told you I had reached the beach naked . 
A reckless light in her eyes now . 
Fact is , I had none to start with . 
Anybody has a reason for starting or for being started . 
That was mine , I guess . 
I've often thought about that matter of reputation in a man or a woman if they're trying to make the bold , strong swim . 
To care about one's reputation means fear of what the world says . 
It's important to care about one's character for without character no one ever got anywhere worth getting to . 
But it's very , very dangerous to be afraid for one's reputation . 
So the strongest and best swimmers swim naked . 
Susan was looking thoughtfully at him over the rim of her glass . 
She took a sip of the champagne , said If I hadn't been quite naked , I'd have sunk I'd have been at the bottom with the fishes Don't ! he cried . 
Thank God , you did whatever you've done yes , I mean that whatever you've done , since it enabled you to swim on . 
He added , And I know it wasn't anything bad anything unwomanly . 
I did the best I could nothing I'm ashamed of or proud of either . 
Just what I had to do . 
But you ought to be proud that you arrived . 
No only glad , said she . 
Like all women she admired strength in a man above everything else . 
She delighted in the thick obstinate growth of his fair hair , in the breadth of the line of his eyebrows , in the aggressive thrust of his large nose and long jawbone . 
She saw in the way his mouth closed evidence of a will against which opposition would dash about as dangerously as an egg against a stone wall . 
There was no question of his having those birthmarks of success about which he talked . 
Finally , he burst out with , Yes , I've made up my mind . 
I'll do it ! I'm going to New York . 
I've been fooling away the last five years here learning a lot , but still idling drinking amusing myself in all kinds of ways . 
Again at college I became a dawdler poker drink dances all the rest of it . 
And suddenly that voice roared in my ears , made me jump like a rabbit when a gun goes off . 
And last month it came again . 
I went to work finished a play I've been pottering over for three years . 
But somehow I couldn't find the the whatever I needed to make me break away . 
Well you've given me that . 
I'll resign from the Commercial and with all I've got in the world three hundred dollars and a trunk full of good clothes , I'll break into Broadway . 
Susan had listened with bright eyes and quickened breath , as intoxicated and as convinced as was he by his eloquence . 
Isn't that splendid ! she exclaimed in a low voice . 
And you ? he said meaningly . 
I ? she replied , fearing she was misunderstanding . 
Will you go ? Do you want me ? she asked , low and breathlessly . 
With a reluctance which suggested but not to her that his generosity was winning a hard fought battle with his vanity , he replied I need you . 
I doubt if I'd dare , without you to back me up . 
I've got a trunk full of fairly good clothes and about a hundred dollars . 
But I haven't got any play or any art or any trade even . 
Of course , I'll go . 
Then she hastily added , I'll not be a drag on you . 
I pay my own way . 
But you mustn't be suspicious in your independence , he warned her . 
You mustn't forget that I'm older than you and more experienced and that it's far easier for a man to get money than for a woman . 
To get it without lowering himself ? Ah ! he exclaimed , looking strangely at her . 
You mean , without bowing to some boss ? Without selling his soul ? I had no idea you were so much of a woman when I met you that day . 
I wasn't then , replied she . 
And I didn't know where I'd got till we began to talk this evening . 
And you're very young ! Oh , but I've been going to a school where they make you learn fast . 
Indeed I do need you . 
He touched his glass to hers . 
On to Broadway ! he cried . 
Broadway ! echoed she , radiant . 
Together eh ? She nodded . 
But as she drank the toast a tear splashed into her glass . 
She was remembering how some mysterious instinct had restrained her from going with John Redmond , though it seemed the only sane thing to do . 
I don't understand myself how I shake off and forget what's past . 
Nothing seems real to me but the future . 
Not even the present ? said he with a smile . 
Not even the present , she answered with grave candor . 
Nothing seems to touch me the real me . 
It's like like looking out of the window of the train at the landscape running by . 
I'm a traveler passing through . 
I wonder if it'll always be that way . 
I wonder if I'll ever arrive where I'll feel that I belong . 
I think so and soon . 
But she did not respond to his confident smile . 
I I hope so , she said with sad , wistful sweetness . 
He looked at her in a wondering uneasy way . 
You do suggest that kind , said he . 
But , smilingly , to hide his earnestness , I'll try to detain you . 
Please do , she said . 
I don't want to go on alone . 
CHAPTER XXIV LIKE days later , on the Eastern Express , they were not so confident as they had been over the St . 
As confident about the remoter future , it was that annoying little stretch near at hand which gave them secret uneasiness . 
Also , like all idlers , they had spent money far more money than total net cash resources of less than five hundred dollars warranted . 
We've spent an awful lot of money , said Susan . 
She was quick to see the faint frown , the warning that she was on dangerous ground . 
Said he Do you regret ? No , indeed no ! cried she , eager to have that cloud vanish , but honest too . 
Still with the battle not begun , there gaped that deep , wide hollow in the war chest . 
But he couldn't altogether forget that they would have traveled on passes , anyhow . 
He was not regretting that he had indulged in the extravagance of a stateroom but he couldn't deny that it was an extravagance . 
Yes , I can face anything with you , he said . 
What I feel for you is the real thing . 
The real thing , at last . 
She had no disposition to inquire curiously into this . 
Her reply was a flash of a smile that was like a flash of glorious light upon the crest of a wave surging straight from her happy heart . 
They were opposite each other at breakfast in the restaurant car . 
He delighted in her frank delight in the novelty of travel swift and luxurious travel . 
He had never been East before , himself , but he had had experience of sleepers and diners she had not , and every moment she was getting some new sensation . 
She especially enjoyed this sitting at breakfast with the express train rushing smoothly along through the mountains the first mountains either had seen . 
At times they were so intensely happy that they laughed with tears in their eyes and touched hands across the table to get from physical contact the reassurances of reality . 
How good to eat everything is ! she exclaimed . 
You'll think me very greedy , I'm afraid . 
It seemed to them that everything , even the least happening , at that sacred spot must be remembered , must be recorded indelibly in the book of their romance . 
I'm glad we were happy together in such circumstances , she went on . 
It was a test wasn't it , Rod ? If two people don't love each other enough to be happy anywhere , they could be happy nowhere , declared he . 
This instinct is more or less futile in most women because they are more or less ignorant of the realities as to wise and foolish expenditure . 
But it is found in the most extravagant women no less than in the most absurdly and meanly stingy . 
Of course , we must be careful , assented Rod . 
But I can't let you be uncomfortable . 
Now , dear , she remonstrated , you mustn't treat me that way . 
I'm better fitted for hardship than you . 
He laughed she looked so fine and delicate , with her transparent skin and her curves of figure , he felt that anything so nearly perfect could not but easily be spoiled . 
And there he showed how little he appreciated her iron strength , her almost exhaustless endurance . 
He fancied he was the stronger because he could have crushed her in his muscular arms . 
But exposures , privations , dissipations that would have done for a muscularly stronger man than he would have left no trace upon her after a few days of rest and sleep . 
It's the truth , she insisted . 
I could prove it , but I shan't . 
I don't want to remember vividly . 
Rod , we must live cheaply in New York until you sell a play and I have a place in some company . 
But , Susie , not too cheap . 
A cheap way of living makes a cheap man gives a man a cheap outlook on life . 
Besides , don't forget if the worst comes to the worst , I can always get a job on a newspaper . 
She would not have let him see how uneasy this remark made her . 
However , she could not permit it to pass without notice . 
Said she a little nervously But you've made up your mind to devote yourself to plays to stand or fall by that . 
For his years Rod Spenser was as wise in the philosophy of success as Burlingham or Tom Brashear . 
Real reasons as distinguished from alleged reasons and imagined reasons , from the reasons self deception invents and vanity gives out real reasons are always interesting and worth noting . 
What was Rod's ? Not his love for her nothing so superior , so superhuman as that . 
Rod was no better pleased at this sly , unwelcome revelation of his real self to himself than the next human being is in similar circumstances . 
The whispering was hastily suppressed love for her , desire that she should be comfortable those must be the real reasons . 
You may be sure , dearest , he said , I'll do nothing that won't help me on . 
He tapped his forehead with his finger . 
This is a machine for making plays . 
Everything that's put into it will be grist for it . 
She was impressed but not convinced . 
He had made his point about concentration too clear to her intelligence . 
She persisted But you said if you took a place on a newspaper it would make you fight less hard . 
I say a lot of things , he interrupted laughingly . 
Don't be frightened about me . 
What I'm most afraid of is that you'll desert me . 
That would be a real knock out blow . 
He said this smilingly but she could not bear jokes on that one subject . 
What do you mean , Rod ? Now , don't look so funereal , Susie . 
I simply meant that I hate to think of your going on the stage or at anything else . 
I want you to help me . 
Selfish , isn't it ? But , dear heart , if I could feel that the plays were ours , that we were both concentrated on the one career darling . 
To love each other , to work together not separately but together don't you understand ? Her expression showed that she understood , but was not at all in sympathy . 
I've got to earn my living , Rod , she objected . 
I shan't care anything about what I'll be doing . 
I'll do it simply to keep from being a burden to you A burden , Susie ! You ! Why , you're my wings that enable me to fly . 
It's selfish , but I want all of you . 
All she wanted in life now was his success . 
But , she objected , it's useless to talk of that until we get on our feet perfectly useless . 
It's true , he admitted with a sigh . 
And until we do , we must be economical . 
What a persistent lady it is , laughed he . 
I wish I were like that . 
I am a jay ! said she . 
I can hardly keep my mouth from dropping open . 
You haven't any the advantage of me , he assured her . 
Are you trembling all over ? Yes , she admitted . 
And my heart's like lead . 
I suppose there are thousands on thousands like us , from all over the country who come here every day feeling as we do . 
Let's go out on the front deck where we can see it . 
It was not quite dark yet the air was almost July hot , as one of those prematurely warm days New York so often has in March . 
The sky , a soft and delicate blue shading into opal and crimson behind them , displayed a bright crescent moon as it arched over the fairyland in the dusk before them . 
Straight ahead , across the broad , swift , sparkling river the broadest water Susan had ever seen rose the mighty , the majestic city . 
It rose direct from the water . 
Endless stretches of ethereal looking structure , reaching higher and higher , in masses like mountain ranges , in peaks , in towers and domes . 
And millions of lights , like fairy lamps , like resplendent jewels , gave the city a glory beyond that of the stars thronging the heavens on a clear summer night . 
They looked to the south . 
Majesty and strength and beauty . 
I love it ! murmured the girl . 
I never dreamed it was like this , said Roderick , in an awed tone . 
The City of the Stars , said she , in the caressing tone in which a lover speaks the name of the beloved . 
They moved closer together and clasped hands and gazed as if they feared the whole thing river and magic city and their own selves would fade away and vanish forever . 
Susan clutched Rod in terror as she saw the vision suddenly begin to move , to advance toward her , like apparitions in a dream before they vanish . 
Then she exclaimed , Why , we are moving ! The big ferryboat , swift , steady as land , noiseless , had got under way . 
Upon them from the direction of the distant and hidden sea blew a cool , fresh breeze . 
Rod and Susan turned their faces southward toward this breeze , drank in great draughts of it . 
That must be Liberty , said Roderick . 
Susan slipped her arm through his . 
She was quivering with excitement and joy . 
Rod Rod ! she murmured . 
It's the isles of freedom . 
And he bent and kissed her , and his cheek felt the tears upon hers . 
He reached for her hand , with an instinct to strengthen her . 
But when he had it within his its firm and vital grasp sent a thrill of strength through him . 
A few minutes , and they paused at the exit from the ferry house . 
God ! He shouted in her ear . 
Isn't this frightful ! She was recovering more quickly than he . 
The faces she saw reassured her . 
Where others of her own race lived , and lived without fear , she , too , could hope to survive . 
And already she , who had loved this mighty offspring of the sea and the sky at first glance , saw and felt another magic the magic of the peopled solitude . 
In this vast , this endless solitude she and he would be free . 
They could do as they pleased , live as they pleased , without thought of the opinion of others . 
Here she could forget the bestial horrors of marriage here she would fear no scornful pointing at her birthbrand of shame . 
She and Rod could be poor without shame they could make their fight in the grateful darkness of obscurity . 
Not a bit , was her prompt answer . 
I love it more than ever . 
Well , it frightens me a little . 
I feel helpless lost in the noise and the crowd . 
How can I do anything here ! Others have . 
Yes yes ! That's so . 
We must take hold ! And he selected a cabman from the shouting swarm . 
We want to go , with two trunks , to the Hotel St . 
All right , sir ! Gimme the checks , please . 
Spenser was about to hand them over when Susan said in an undertone , You haven't asked the price . 
Spenser hastened to repair this important omission . 
Ten dollars , replied the cabman as if ten dollars were some such trifle as ten cents . 
Spenser laughed at the first experience of the famous New York habit of talking in a faint careless way of large sums of money other people's money . 
You did save us a swat , he said to Susan , and beckoned another man . 
At the hotel they got a large comfortable room and a bath for four dollars a day . 
Spenser insisted it was cheap Susan showed her alarm less than an hour in New York and ten dollars gone , not to speak of she did not know how much change . 
They had dinner in the restaurant of the hotel and set out to explore the land they purposed to subdue and to possess . 
They walked up Broadway to Fourteenth , missed their way in the dazzle and glare of south Union Square , discovered the wandering highway again after some searching . 
After the long , rather quiet stretch between Union Square and Thirty fourth Street they found themselves at the very heart of the city's night life . 
They gazed in wonder upon the elevated road with its trains thundering by high above them . 
Surely surely there would be small difficulty in placing his play when there were so many theaters , all eager for plays . 
They debated going to the theater , decided against it , as they were tired from the journey and the excitement of crowding new sensations . 
I've never been to a real theater in my life , said Susan . 
I want to be fresh the first time I go . 
That will be an experience ! And they read the illuminated signs , inspected the show windows , and slowly strolled back toward the hotel . 
As they were recrossing Union Square , Spenser said , Have you noticed how many street girls there are ? We must have passed a thousand . 
Isn't it frightful ? Yes , said Susan . 
Rod made a gesture of disgust , and said with feeling , How low a woman must have sunk before she could take to that life ! Yes , said Susan . 
So low that there couldn't possibly be left any shred of feeling or decency anywhere in her . 
It's not a question of morals , but of sensibility , pursued he . 
Some day I'm going to write a play or a story about it . 
A woman with anything to her , who had to choose between that life and death , wouldn't hesitate an instant . 
A streetwalker ! And again he made that gesture of disgust . 
Before you write , said Susan , in a queer , quiet voice , you'll find out all about it . 
Maybe some of these girls most of them all of them are still human beings . 
It's not fair to judge people unless you know . 
And it's so easy to say that someone else ought to die rather than do this or that . 
You can't imagine yourself doing such a thing , urged he . 
Susan hesitated , then Yes , she said . 
Oh , nonsense ! You don't know what you're talking about . 
Susie ! he exclaimed , looking reprovingly at her . 
She met his eyes without flinching . 
He stopped short and his expression set her bosom to heaving . 
But her gaze was steady upon his . 
Why did you tell me ! he cried . 
Oh , it isn't so it can't be . 
You don't mean exactly that . 
Yes , I do , said she . 
Don't tell me ! I don't want to know . 
And he strode on , she keeping beside him . 
I can't let you believe me different from what I am , replied she . 
Now I'll always think of it whenever I look at you . 
I simply can't believe it . 
You spoke of it as if you weren't ashamed . 
I'm not ashamed , she said . 
There isn't anything I've done that I wouldn't be willing to have you know . 
I'd have told you , except that I didn't want to recall it . 
You know that nobody can live without getting dirty . 
The thing is to want to be clean and to try to get clean afterward isn't it ? Yes , he admitted , as if he had not been hearing . 
I wish you hadn't told me . 
I'll always see it and feel it when I look at you . 
I want you to , said she . 
I couldn't love you as I do if I hadn't gone through a great deal . 
But it must have left its stains upon you , said he . 
Again he stopped short in the street , faced her at the curb , with the crowd hurrying by and jostling them . 
Tell me about it ! he commanded . 
To have told would have been like tearing open closed and healed wounds . 
Also it would have seemed whining and she had utter contempt for whining . 
I'll answer any question , but I can't just go on and tell . 
You deliberately went and did that ? Yes . 
Haven't you any excuse , any defense ? She might have told him about Burlingham dying and the need of money to save him . 
She might have told him about Etta her health going her mind made up to take to the streets , with no one to look after her . 
She might have made it all a moving and a true tale of self sacrifice for the two people who had done most for her . 
But it was not in her simple honest nature to try to shift blame . 
So all she said was No , Rod . 
And you didn't want to kill yourself first ? No. I wanted to live . 
I was dirty and I wanted to be clean . 
I was hungry and I wanted food . 
I was cold that was the worst . 
I was cold , and I wanted to get warm . 
He looked at her long . 
I don't understand , he finally said . 
Let's go back to the hotel . 
She walked beside him , making no attempt to break his gloomy silence . 
They went up to their room and she sat on the lounge by the window . 
He lit a cigarette and half sat , half lay , upon the bed . 
After a long time he said with a bitter laugh , And I was so sure you were a good woman ! I don't feel bad , she ventured timidly . 
I'm sorry you didn't understand . 
I thought you did not the details , but in a general sort of way . 
I didn't mean to deceive you . 
That would have seemed to me much worse than anything I did . 
I might have known ! I might have known ! he cried rather theatrically , though sincerely withal for Mr. Spenser was a diligent worker with the tools of the play making trade . 
I learned who you were as soon as I got home the night I left you in Carrolton . 
They had been telephoning about you to the village . 
So I knew about you . 
About my mother ? asked she . 
Is that what you mean ? Oh , you need not look so ashamed , said he , graciously , pityingly . 
I am not ashamed , said she . 
But she did not tell him that her look came from an awful fear that he was about to make her ashamed of him . 
No , I suppose you aren't , he went on , incensed by this further evidence of her lack of a good woman's instincts . 
I really ought not to blame you . 
You were born wrong born with the moral sense left out . 
Yes , I suppose so , said she , wearily . 
If only you had lied to me told me the one lie ! cried he . 
Then you wouldn't have destroyed my illusion . 
You wouldn't have killed my love . 
She grew deathly white that was all . 
I don't mean that I don't love you still , he hurried on . 
But not in the same way . 
Are there different ways of loving ? she asked . 
How can I give you the love of respect and trust now ? Don't you trust me any more ? I couldn't . 
It was hard enough before on account of your birth . 
But now Trust a woman who had been a a I can't speak the word . 
Trust you ? You don't understand a man . 
Nowhere to go but the streets the life that seemed the only one for such as she . 
I don't understand people at all . 
Do you want me to go ? She had risen as she asked this . 
He was beside her instantly . 
Why I couldn't get along without you . 
Then you love me as I love you , Said she , putting her arms round him . 
And that's all I want . 
I don't want what you call respect . 
I couldn't ever have hoped to get that , being born as I was could I ? Anyhow , it doesn't seem to me to amount to much . 
I can't help it , Rod that's the way I feel . 
So just love me do with me whatever you will , so long as it makes you happy . 
And I don't need to be trusted . 
I couldn't think of anybody but you . 
He felt sure of her again , reascended to the peak of the moral mountain . 
You understand , we can never get married . 
We can never have any children . 
We can love can't we ? He took her face between his hands . 
She did not wince , but there came into her young face a deeper pathos and a wan , deprecating , pleading smile . 
She said Maybe love has washed it away if it was there . 
It never seemed to touch me any more than the dirt when I had to clean up my room . 
You mustn't talk that way . 
Why you are perfectly calm ! You don't cry or feel repentant . 
You don't seem to care . 
It's so so past and dead . 
I feel as if it were another person . 
And it was , Rod ! He shook his head , frowning . 
Let's not talk about it , he said harshly . 
If only I could stop thinking about it ! She effaced herself as far as she could , living in the same room with him . 
She avoided the least show of the tenderness she felt , of the longing to have her wounds soothed . 
She lay awake the whole night , suffering , now and then timidly and softly caressing him when she was sure that he slept . 
In the morning she pretended to be asleep , let him call her twice before she showed that she was awake . 
A furtive glance at him confirmed the impression his voice had given . 
Now that sense of isolation , of the mere spectator or the traveler gazing from the windows of the hurrying train that sense returned . 
But she fought against the feeling it gave her . 
That evening they went to the theater to see Modjeska in Magda . 
Susan had never been in a real theater . 
The only approach to a playhouse in Sutherland was Masonic Hall . 
It had a sort of stage at one end where from time to time wandering players gave poor performances of poor plays or a minstrel show or a low vaudeville . 
But none of the best people of Sutherland went at least , none of the women . 
Usually the first sight of anything one has dreamed about is pitifully disappointing . 
Neither nature nor life can build so splendidly as a vivid fancy . 
But Susan , in some sort prepared for the shortcomings of the stage , was not disappointed . 
From rise to fall of curtain she was so fascinated , so absolutely absorbed , that she quite forgot her surroundings , even Rod . 
And between the acts she could not talk for thinking . 
Rod , deceived by her silence , was chagrined . 
He had been looking forward to a great happiness for himself in seeing her happy , and much profit from the study of the viewpoint of an absolutely fresh mind . 
It wasn't until they were leaving the theater that he got an inkling of the true state of affairs with her . 
Let's go to supper , said he . 
If you don't mind , replied she , I'd rather go home . 
You were sound asleep this morning . 
So you must have slept well , said he sarcastically . 
It's the play , said she . 
Why didn't you like it ? he asked , irritated . 
She looked at him in wonder . 
Like what ? The play ? She drew a long breath . 
I feel as if it had almost killed me . 
He understood when they were in their room and she could hardly undress before falling into a sleep so relaxed , so profound , that it made him a little uneasy . 
It seemed to him the exhaustion of a child worn out with the excitement of a spectacle . 
And her failure to go into ecstasies the next day led him further into the same error . 
Modjeska is very good as Magda , said he , carelessly , as one talking without expecting to be understood . 
But they say there's an Italian woman Duse who is the real thing . 
Modjeska Duse Susan seemed indeed not to understand . 
I hated her father , she said . 
He didn't deserve to have such a wonderful daughter . 
Spenser had begun to laugh with her first sentence . 
At the second he frowned , said bitterly I might have known ! You get it all wrong . 
I suppose you sympathize with Magda ? I worshiped , her said Susan , her voice low and tremulous with the intensity of her feeling . 
An obvious case , thought he . 
She was indeed one of those instances of absolute lack of moral sense . 
Just as some people have the misfortune to be born without arms or without legs , so others are doomed to live bereft of a moral sense . 
A sweet disposition , a beautiful body , but no soul not a stained soul , but no soul at all . 
And his whole mental attitude toward her changed or , rather , it was changed by the iron compulsion of his prejudice . 
The only change in his physical attitude that is , in his treatment of her was in the direction of bolder passion . 
of complete casting aside of all the restraint a conventional respecter of conventional womanhood feels toward a woman whom he respects . 
So , naturally , Susan , eager to love and to be loved , and easily confusing the not easily distinguished spiritual and physical , was reassured . 
She continued to fight against , to ignore , her feeling of aloneness , her feeling of impending departure . 
She was aided in this by her anxiety about their finances . 
She assumed that all this was necessary he said so , and he must know . 
It simply was not in him , she saw , to be careful about money . 
Character is not a collection of ignorant impulses but a solidly woven fabric of deliberate purposes . 
Carelessness about anything most often indicates a tendency to carelessness about everything . 
She admired his openhanded way of scattering she wouldn't have admired it in herself , would have thought it dishonest and selfish . 
Still , even as she admired , she saw danger , grave danger , a disturbingly short distance ahead . 
He described to her the difficulties he was having in getting to managers , in having his play read , and the absurdity of the reasons given for turning it down . 
With that philippic against optimism in mind , she felt what Spenser was rushing toward . 
She made such inquiries about work for herself as her inexperience and limited opportunities permitted . 
She asked , she begged him , to let her try to get a place . 
He angrily ordered her to put any such notion out of her head . 
After a time she nerved herself again to speak . 
Then he frankly showed her why he was refusing . 
No , said he peremptorily , I couldn't trust you in those temptations . 
You must stay where I can guard you . 
As long as you want me to love you , you've got to stay with me , he declared . 
If you persist , I'll know you're simply looking for a chance to go back to your old ways . 
And though she continued to think and cautiously to inquire about work she said no more to him . 
She spent not a penny , discouraged him from throwing money away as much as she could without irritating him and waited for the cataclysm . 
Waited not in gloom and tears but as normal healthy youth awaits any adversity not definitely scheduled for an hour close at hand . 
It would be far indeed from the truth to picture Susan as ever for long a melancholy figure to the eye or even wholly melancholy within . 
Her intelligence and her too sympathetic heart were together a strong force for sadness in her life , as they cannot but be in any life . 
In this world , to understand and to sympathize is to be saddened . 
But there was in her a force stronger than either or both . 
Thus , she was no repellent , aggravating companion to Rod as she awaited the cataclysm . 
It came in the third week . 
He spent the entire day away from her , toward midnight he returned , flushed with liquor . 
She had gone to bed . 
Get up and dress , said he with an irritability toward her which she had no difficulty in seeing was really directed at himself . 
We're going out for some supper . 
Come kiss me first , said she , stretching out her arms . 
Several times this device had shifted his purpose from spending money on the needless and expensive suppers . 
We're going to have one final blow out . 
I start to work tomorrow . 
I've taken a place on the Herald on space , guaranty of twenty five a week , good chance to average fifty or sixty . 
He said this hurriedly , carelessly , gayly guiltily . 
She showed then and there what a surpassing wise young woman she was , for she did not exclaim or remind him of his high resolve to do or die as a playwright . 
I'll be ready in a minute , was all she said . 
She dressed swiftly , he lounging on the sofa and watching her . 
He loved to watch her dress , she did it so gracefully , and the motions brought out latent charms of her supple figure . 
You're not so sure fingered tonight as usual , said he . 
I never saw you make so many blunders and you've got one stocking on wrong side out . 
She smiled into the glass at him . 
I guess I was sleepy . 
Never saw your eyes more wide awake . 
What're you thinking about ? About supper , declared she . 
I didn't feel like eating alone . 
I can't be here always , said he crossly and she knew he was suspecting what she really must be thinking . 
I wasn't complaining , replied she sweetly . 
You know I understand about business . 
Yes , I know , said he , with his air of generosity that always made her feel grateful . 
I always feel perfectly free about you . 
I should say ! laughed she . 
You know I don't care what happens so long as you succeed . 
Since their talk in Broadway that first evening in New York she had instinctively never said we . 
She listened and looked convinced , and strove to convince herself that she believed . 
But there was no gray in her eyes , only the deepest hue of violets . 
Next day they took a suite of two rooms and a bath in a pretentious old house in West Forty fourth Street near Long Acre Square . 
She insisted that she preferred another much sunnier and quieter suite with no bath but only a stationary washstand it was to be had for ten dollars a week . 
But he laughed at her as too economical in her ideas , and decided for the eighteen dollar rooms . 
Also he went with her to buy clothes , made her spend nearly a hundred dollars where she would have spent less than twenty five . 
I prefer to make most of my things , declared she . 
And I've all the time in the world . 
He would not have it . 
In her leisure time she must read and amuse herself and keep herself up to the mark , especially physically . 
I'm proud of your looks , said he . 
They belong to me , don't they ? Well , take care of my property , Miss . 
She looked at him vaguely a look of distance , of parting , of pain . 
Then she flung herself into his arms with a hysterical cry and shut her eyes tight against the beckoning figure calling her away . 
No ! No ! she murmured . 
I belong here here ! What are you saying ? he asked . 
Nothing nothing , she replied . 
CHAPTER XXV AT the hotel they had been Mr. and Mrs. Spenser . 
One of his favorite remarks to her sometimes made laughingly , again ironically , again angrily , again insultingly , was in this strain Your face is demure enough . 
But you look too damned attractive about those beautiful feet of yours to be respectable at heart and trustable . 
That matter of her untrustworthiness had become a fixed idea with him . 
The more he concentrated upon her physical loveliness , the more he revolved the dangers , the possibilities of unfaithfulness for a physical infatuation is always jealous . 
His work on the Herald made close guarding out of the question . 
If she had sewed , he must look at the sewing if she had read , he must know how many pages and must hear a summary of what those pages contained . 
At first he was covert in this detective work , being ashamed of his own suspicions . 
But as he drank , as he associated again with the same sort of people who had wasted his time in Cincinnati , he rapidly became franker and more inquisitorial . 
He tormented her he tormented himself . 
She suffered from humiliation but she suffered more because she saw how his suspicions were torturing him . 
And in her humility and helplessness and inexperience , she felt no sense of right to resist , no impulse to resist . 
And she forced herself to look on his spasms of jealousy as the occasional storms which occur even in the best climates . 
After what she had been through , to be sad because the man she loved loved her too well ! It was absurd , ungrateful . 
He pried into every nook and corner of her being with that ingenious and tireless persistence human beings reserve for searches for what they do not wish to find . 
At last he contrived to find , or to imagine he had found , something that justified his labors and vindicated his disbelief in her . 
Susan gave her the swift , seeing glance which one woman always gives another the glance of competitors at each other's offerings . 
Instead of glancing away , Susan stopped short and gazed . 
Forgetting Rod , she herself went up to the millinery display that she might have a fuller view of the woman who had fascinated her . 
What's the matter ? cried Spenser . 
You don't want any of those hats . 
But Susan insisted that she must see , made him linger until the woman returned to her carriage and drove away . 
She said to Rod Did you see her ? Yes . 
Rather pretty nothing to scream about . 
But her style ! cried Susan . 
Oh , she was nicely dressed in a quiet way . 
You'll see thousands a lot more exciting after you've been about in this town a while . 
I've seen scores of beautifully dressed women here and in Cincinnati , too , replied Susan . 
But that woman she was perfect . 
And that's a thing I've never seen before . 
I'm glad you have such quiet tastes quiet and inexpensive . 
I don't dare think how much that woman's clothes cost . 
You only glanced at her , Rod , you didn't look . 
If you had , you'd have seen . 
Everything she wore was just right . 
Oh , it was wonderful ! The colors the fit the style the making every big and little thing . 
She was a work of art , Rod ! That's the first woman I've seen in my life that I through and through envied . 
Rod's look was interested now . 
You like that sort of thing a lot ? he inquired with affected carelessness . 
Every woman does , replied she , unsuspicious . 
But I care well , not for merely fine clothes . 
But for the the kind that show what sort of person is in them . 
I wonder if I'll ever learn and have money enough to carry out . 
It'll take so much so much ! She laughed . 
I've got terribly extravagant ideas . 
But don't be alarmed I keep them chained up . 
He was eying her unpleasantly . 
He thought it was because she was seeing and understanding his look and was frightened at his having caught her at last . 
In fact , it was because it all at once struck her that what she had innocently and carelessly said sounded like a hint or a reproach to him . 
He sneered So you're crazy about finery eh ? Oh , Rod ! she cried . 
You know I didn't mean it that way . 
I long for and dream about a whole lot of beautiful things , but nothing else in the world's in the same class with with what we've got . 
You needn't try to excuse yourself , said he in a tone that silenced her . 
She wished she had not seen the woman who had thus put a cloud over their afternoon's happiness . 
How much she would have to learn before she could hope to dress like that ! learn not merely about dress but about the whole artistic side of life . 
She had rather thought such a life did not exist outside of novels and dreams . 
What she had seen of New York the profuse , the gigantic but also the undiscriminating had tended to strengthen the suspicion . 
But this woman proved her mistaken . 
Our great forward strides are made unconsciously , are the results of apparently trivial , often unnoted impulses . 
Susan , like all our race , had always had vague secret dreams of ambition so vague thus far that she never thought of them as impelling purposes in her life . 
But Rod saw in her enthusiasm only evidence of a concealed longing for the money to indulge extravagant whims . 
One day in midsummer she chanced to go into the Hotel Astor to buy a magazine . 
As she had not been there before she made a wrong turning and was forced to cross one of the restaurants . 
Real emotion , even a professional expert at display of emotion , is rarely so adept at exhibiting itself . 
It may have been jealousy that guided her to this swift judgment upon the character of the emotion correctly and charmingly expressing itself . 
If so , jealousy was for once a trustworthy guide . 
She turned swiftly and escaped unseen . 
The idea of trapping him , of confronting him , never occurred to her . 
She felt ashamed and self reproachful that she had seen . 
Instead of the anger that fires a vain woman , whether she cares about a man or not , there came a profound humiliation . 
She had in some way fallen short she had not given him all he needed it must be that she hadn't it to give , since she had given him all she had . 
She did not realize how completely the instinct that he was estranged from her had prepared her for the thing that always accompanies estrangement . 
Most couples constantly move along this range , now toward the one extreme , now toward the other . 
The delusion of accord vanished that first evening in New York . 
What remained ? What came in the place ? They knew no more about that than does the next couple . 
They were simply living along . 
Again it might never come . 
After a few weeks the matter that had been out of her mind accidentally and indirectly came to the surface in a chance remark . 
She said Sometimes I half believe a man could be untrue to a woman , even though he loved her . 
She did not appreciate the bearings of her remark until it was spoken . 
With a sensation of terror lest the dreaded crisis might be about to burst , she felt his quick , nervous glance . 
She breathed freely again when she felt his reassurance and relief as she successfully withstood . 
Certainly , he said with elaborate carelessness . 
Men are a rotten , promiscuous lot . 
That's why it's necessary for a woman to be good and straight . 
All this time his cross examination had grown in severity . 
Her mind began curiously sadly to revolve the occasional presents of money , of books , of things to wear which he gave , always quite unexpectedly . 
And it was not long before she understood she was receiving his expiations for his indiscretions . 
Like an honest man and a loyal masculinely loyal lover he was squaring accounts . 
She never read the books she owed to these twinges it was thus that she got her aversion to Thackeray one of his expiations was a set of Thackeray . 
The things to wear she contrived never to use . 
His work forced him to keep irregular hours thus she could pretend to herself that his absences were certainly because of office duty . 
She was always urging herself to content herself with what she was getting . 
Did she really love him ? She believed she did . 
Was she right ? Love is of many degrees and kinds . 
Suffering had given this sapling of a girl the strong fiber that enables a tree to push majestically up toward the open sky . 
Because she did not cry out was no sign that she was not hurt and because she did not wither and die of her wounds was only proof of her strength of soul . 
The weak wail and the weak succumb the strong persist and a world of wailers and weaklings calls them hard , insensible , coarse . 
Spenser was fond of exhibiting to his men friends to some of them this treasure to which he always returned the more enamoured for his vagary and its opportunity of comparison . 
Women he would not permit . 
Thus , her only acquaintances , her only associates , were certain carefully selected men . 
He asked to dinner or to the theater or to supper at Jack's or Rector's only such men as he could trust . 
And trustworthy meant physically unattractive . 
The friend who came oftenest was Drumley , an editorial writer who had been his chum at college and had got him the place on the Herald . 
Drumley was an emaciated Kentucky giant with grotesquely sloping shoulders which not all the ingenious padding of his tailor could appreciably mitigate . 
His spare legs were bowed in the calves . 
His skin looked rough and tough , like sandpaper and emery board . 
The thought of touching his face gave one the same sensation as a too deeply cut nail . 
The lower part of his sallow face suggested weakness the weakness so often seen in the faces of professional men , and explaining why they chose passive instead of active careers . 
His forehead was really fine , but the development of the rest of the cranium above the protuberant little ears was not altogether satisfying to a claim of mental powers . 
Drumley was a good sort not so much through positive virtue as through the timidity which too often accounts for goodness , that is , for the meek conformity which passes as goodness . 
He was absolutely without physical magnetism . 
Susan liked him because he knew so much . 
She had developed still further her innate passion for educating herself . 
She now wanted to know all about everything . 
He knew the histories and biographies that are most amusing and least shallow and mendacious . 
He instructed her in the great playwrights and novelists and poets , and gave as his own the reasons for their greatness assigned by the world's foremost critical writers . 
He showed her what scientific books to read those that do not bore and do not hide the simple fascinating facts about the universe under pretentious , college professor phraseology . 
His favorite topic was beauty and ugliness and his abhorrence for anyone who was not good to look at . 
As he talked this subject , his hearers were nervous and embarrassed . 
He was a drastic cure for physical vanity . 
For it made him pitiful and ridiculous . 
At first he came only with Spenser . 
Afterward , Spenser used to send him to dine with Susan and to spend the evenings with her when he himself had to be or wished to be elsewhere . 
When she was with Drumley he knew she was not up to any of her old tricks . 
Whenever Drumley heard that a woman other than the brazenly out and out disreputables was loose or was inclined that way , he indignantly denied it as a libel upon the empedestaled sex . 
If proofs beyond dispute were furnished , he raved against the man with all the venom of the unsuccessful hating the successful for their success . 
He had been sought of women , of course , for he had a comfortable and secure position and money put by . 
Toward the end of Spenser's first year on the Herald it was early summer he fell into a melancholy so profound and so prolonged that Susan became alarmed . 
He spent more and more time with her , became as ardent as in their first days together , with an added desperation of passionate clinging that touched her to the depths . 
She had early learned to ignore his moods , to avoid sympathy which aggravates , and to meet his blues with a vigorous counterirritant of liveliness . 
After watching the course of this acute attack for more than a month , she decided that at the first opportunity she would try to find out from Drumley what the cause was . 
Perhaps she could cure him if she were not working in the dark . 
One June evening Drumley came to take her to dinner at the Casino in Central Park . 
This furtive debauch gave her a shivery sense of intrusion . 
She distinctly liked the candid , even the not too coarse , glances of the usual man . 
But not this shy peeping . 
However , as there were books she particularly wished to talk about with him , she accepted . 
It was an excursion of which she was fond . 
They strolled along Seventh Avenue to the Park , entered and followed the lovely walk , quiet and green and odorous , to the Mall . 
They sauntered in the fading light up the broad Mall , with its roof of boughs of majestic trees , with its pale blue vistas of well kept lawns . 
The air was saturated with the fresh odors of spring and early summer flowers . 
Susan , walking beside the homely Drumley , was a charming and stylish figure of girlish womanhood . 
There was a deeper melancholy in her violet gray eyes . 
Experience had increased the allure of her wide , beautifully curved mouth . 
They took a table under the trees , with beds of blooming flowers on either hand . 
Drumley ordered the sort of dinner she liked , and a bottle of champagne and a bottle of fine burgundy to make his favorite drink champagne and burgundy , half and half . 
He was running to poetry that evening Keats and Swinburne . 
Finally , after some hesitation , he produced a poem by Dowson I ran across it today . 
It's the only thing of his worth while , I believe and it's so fine that Swinburne must have been sore when he read it because he hadn't thought to write it himself . 
Its moral tone is not high , but it's so beautiful , Mrs. Susan , that I'll venture to show it to you . 
It comes nearer to expressing what men mean by the man sort of constancy than anything I ever read . 
Susan took the paper , read the four stanzas several times , handed it back to him without a word . 
Fine , Susan echoed absently . 
I suppose it is the best a woman can expect to be the one he returns to . 
And isn't that enough ? You are very different from any woman I ever met , said Drumley . 
Very different from what you were last fall wonderfully different . 
But you were different then , too . 
I'd have been a strange sort of person if it weren't so . 
I've led a different life . 
I've learned because I've had to learn . 
You've been through a great deal suffered a great deal for one of your age ? Susan shrugged her shoulders slightly . 
She had her impulses to confide , but she had yet to meet the person who seriously tempted her to yield to them . 
Not even Rod no , least of all Rod . 
You are happy ? Happy and more . 
The reply was the truth , as she saw the truth . 
Their destiny of subordination has made philosophers of women . 
Drumley seemed to be debating how to disclose something he had in mind . 
But after several glances at the sweet , delicate face of the girl , he gave it over . 
In the subdued light from the shaded candles on their table , she looked more child like than he had ever seen . 
Perhaps her big pale blue hat and graceful pale blue summer dress had something to do with it , also . 
How old are you ? he asked abruptly . 
I feel like saying , So much ! and also So little ! How long have you been married ? Why all these questions ? demanded she , smiling . 
I didn't mean to be impertinent , said he . 
It isn't impertinence is it ? to ask a woman how long she's been married . 
She was elegantly and badly dressed in new clothes and she seemed as new to that kind of clothes as those particular clothes were new to her . 
They had nearly reached the entrance when Drumley said Let's sit on this bench here . 
I want to have a serious talk with you . 
Susan seated herself and waited . 
He lit a cigar with the deliberation of one who is striving to gain time . 
The bench happened to be one of those that are divided by iron arms into individual seats . 
He sat with a compartment between them . 
The moonbeams struck across his profile as he turned it toward her they shone full upon her face . 
He looked , hastily glanced away . 
With a gruffness as if the evening mist had got into his throat he said Let's take another bench . 
I like this beautiful light . 
Please let me have my way . 
And he led her to a bench across which a tree threw a deep shadow as they sat there , neither could see the other's face except in dimmest outline . 
After a brief silence he began You love Rod don't you ? She laughed happily . 
Above everything on earth ? Or in heaven . 
You'd do anything to have him succeed ? No one could prevent his succeeding . 
He's got it in him . 
It's bound to come out . 
So I'd have said until a year ago that is , about a year ago . 
As her face turned quickly toward him , he turned profile to her . 
What do you mean ? said she , quickly , almost imperiously . 
Yes I mean you , replied he . 
You mean you think I'm hindering him ? When Drumley's voice finally came , it was funereally solemn . 
You are dragging him down . 
You are killing his ambition . 
You don't understand , she protested with painful expression . 
If you did , you wouldn't say that . 
You mean because he is not true to you ? Isn't he ? said she , loyally trying to pretend surprise . 
If that's so , you've no right to tell me you , his friend . 
If it isn't , you In either case I'd be beneath contempt unless I knew that you knew already . 
Oh , I've known a long time that you knew ever since the night you looked away when he absentmindedly pulled a woman's veil and gloves out of his pocket . 
I've watched you since then , and I know . 
You are a very dear friend , Mr. Drumley , said she . 
But you must not talk of him to me . 
I must , he replied . 
And he hastened to make the self fooled hypocrite's familiar move to the safety of duty's skirts . 
It would be a crime to keep silent . 
It may be your duty to speak . 
It's my duty to refuse to hear . 
He is overwhelmed with debt . 
He is about to lose his position . 
Susan , suddenly weak , had seated herself again . 
When Drumley began she knew that the end of self deception was at hand if she let him speak . 
But the instant he had spoken , the struggle ended . 
If he had tried to stop she would have compelled him to go on . 
That woman is you , he continued in the same solemn measured way . 
Rod will not marry you . 
And you are dragging him down . 
You don't know that passionate love is a man's worst enemy . 
It satisfies his ambition why struggle when one already has attained the climax of desire ? It saps his strength , takes from him the energy without which achievement is impossible . 
Passion dies poisoned of its own sweets . 
But passionate love kills at least , it kills the man . 
If you did not love him , I'd not be talking to you now . 
But you do love him . 
So I say , you are killing him . 
Don't think he has told me I know he didn't , she interrupted curtly . 
She hadn't a doubt of the truth of her loyal defense . 
And Drumley could not have raised a doubt , even if she had been seeing the expression of his face . 
And the ideas were not new to her . 
Rod had often talked them in a general way and she had thought much about them . 
Until now she had never seen how they applied to Rod and herself . 
But she was seeing and feeling it now so acutely that if she had tried to speak or to move she could not have done so . 
After a long pause , Drumley said Do you comprehend what I mean ? She was silent so it was certain that she comprehended . 
But you don't believe ? . 
He began to borrow money almost immediately on his arrival here last summer . 
He has been borrowing ever since from everybody and anybody . 
He owes now , as nearly as I can find out , upwards of three thousand dollars . 
Susan made a slight but sharp movement . 
You don't believe me ? Yes . 
He has it in him , I'm confident , to write plays strong plays . 
Does he ever write except ephemeral space stuff for the paper ? No. And he never will so long as he has you to go home to . 
He lives beyond his means because he will have you in comfortable surroundings and dressed to stimulate his passion . 
If he would marry you , it might be a little better though still he would never amount to anything as long as his love lasted the kind of love you inspire . 
But he will never marry you . 
I learned that from what I know of his ideas and from what I've observed as to your relations not from anything he ever said about you . 
And thence she might have gone on to consider that Drumley's speeches sounded strangely like paraphrases of Spenser's eloquent outbursts when he got going . 
But she had not a suspicion . 
Besides , her whole being was concentrated upon the idea Drumley was trying to put into words . 
She asked Why are you telling me ? Because I love him , replied Drumley with feeling . 
We're about the same age , but he's been like my son ever since we struck up a friendship in the first term of Freshman year . 
Is that your only reason ? On my honor . 
And so firmly did he believe it , he bore her scrutiny as she peered into his face through the dimness . 
Yes , she said in a low voice , half to herself . 
Yes , I believe it is . 
There was silence for a long time , then she asked quietly What do you think I ought to do ? Leave him if you love him , replied Drumley . 
What else can you do ? . 
Stay on and complete his ruin ? And if I go what ? Oh , you can do any one of many things . 
You can I mean what about him ? He will be like a crazy man for a while . 
He'll make that a fresh excuse for keeping on as he's going now . 
Then he'll brace up , and I'll be watching over him , and I'll put him to work in the right direction . 
He can't be saved , he can't even be kept afloat as long as you are with him , or within reach . 
With you gone out of his life his strength will return , his self respect can be roused . 
I've seen the same thing in other cases again and again . 
I could tell you any number of stories of He does not care for me ? In one way , a great deal . 
But you're like drink , like a drug to him . 
It is strange that a woman such as you , devoted , single hearted , utterly loving , should be an influence for bad . 
But it's true of wives also . 
The best wives are often the worst . 
A man needs tranquillity at home . 
I understand , said she . 
And her voice was unemotional , as always when she was so deeply moved that she dared not release anything lest all should be released . 
She was like a seated statue . 
The moon had moved so that it shone upon her face . 
He was astonished by its placid calm . 
He had expected her to rave and weep , to protest and plead before denouncing him and bidding him mind his own business . 
Instead , she was making it clear that after all she did not care about Roderick probabLy she was wondering what would become of her , now that her love was ruined . 
No doubt one reason he was untrue to her was that she was too pure for his debauched fancy . 
Thus reasoned Drumley with that mingling of truth and error characteristic of those who speculate about matters of which they have small and unfixed experience . 
About yourself , he proceeded . 
I have a choice of professions for you one with a company on the road on the southern circuit with good prospects of advancement . 
I know , from what I have seen of you , and from talks we have had , that you would do well on the stage . 
But the life might offend your sensibilities . 
I should hesitate to recommend it to a delicate , fine fibered woman like you . 
The other position is a clerkship in a business office in Philadelphia with an increase as soon as you learn stenography and typewriting . 
It doesn't offer anything brilliant . 
But except the stage and literature , nothing brilliant offers for a woman . 
Literature is out of the question , I think certainly for the present . 
The stage isn't really a place for a woman of lady like instincts . 
So I should recommend the office position . 
While my main purpose in talking to you , he continued , was to try to save him , I can honestly say that it was hardly less my intention to save you . 
But for that , I'd not have had the courage to speak . 
He is on the way down . 
He's dragging you with him . 
What future have you with him ? You would go on down and down , as low as he should sink and lower . 
You've completely merged yourself in him which might do very well if you were his wife and a good influence in his life or a mere negation like most wives . 
But in the circumstances it means ruin to you . 
Don't you see that ? What did you say ? I was talking about you your future your Oh , I shall do well enough . 
Her short , indifferent dismissal of what was his real object in speaking though he did not permit himself to know it cut him to the quick . 
He felt a sickening and to him inexplicable sense of defeat and disgrace . 
Because he must talk to distract his mind from himself , he began afresh by saying You'll think it over ? I am thinking it over . 
I wonder that With the fingers of one hand she smoothed her glove on the fingers of the other I wonder that I didn't think of it long ago . 
I ought to have thought of it . 
I ought to have seen . 
Neither spoke until they were in Fifty ninth Street then he , unable to stand the strain of a silent walk of fifteen blocks , suggested that they take the car down . 
These signs and the contrast of her mute motionlessness with her usual vivacity of speech and expression and gesture made him uneasy . 
I'd advise , said he , that you reflect on it all carefully and consult with me before you do anything if you think you ought to do anything . 
At the door of the house he had to reach for her hand , and her answer to his good night was a vague absent echo of the word . 
I've only done what I saw was my duty , said he , appealingly . 
Yes , I suppose so . 
And you'll talk with me before you The door had closed behind her she had not known he was speaking . 
When Spenser came , about two hours later , and turned on the light in their bedroom , she was in the bed , apparently asleep . 
He laid it noiselessly back , covered it over with the handkerchiefs , sat with his fingers resting on the edge of the drawer . 
She had shifted her position so that her face was now toward him . 
But her eyes were closed and her face was tranquil . 
Still , he hoped she had seen the little episode of the pistol , which he thought fine and impressive . 
After a while her eyelids fluttered and lifted to disclose eyes that startled him , so intense , so sleepless were they . 
Kiss me , she said , in her usual sweet , tender way a little shyness , much of passion's sparkle and allure . 
It did not seem twaddle or melodramatic to her or , for that matter , to him . 
She clasped him more closely . 
What's the matter , dear ? she asked , her head on his breast . 
Oh , I've had a row at the Herald , and have quit . 
But I'll get another place tomorrow . 
I wish you'd fix up that play the way Drumley suggested . 
Anything else wrong ? Only the same old trouble . 
I love you too much . 
Too damn much , he added in a tone not intended for her ears . 
Weak fool that's what I am . 
I've got you , anyhow . 
Haven't I ? Yes , she said . 
I'd do anything for you anything . 
As long as I keep my eyes on you , said he , half mockingly . 
I'm weak , but you're weaker . 
Aren't you ? I guess so . 
And she drew a long breath , nestled into his arms , and upon his breast , with her perfumed hair drowsing his senses . 
He soon slept when he awoke , toward noon , he did not disturb her . 
He shaved and bathed and dressed , and was about to go out when she called him . 
Oh , I thought you were asleep , said he . 
I can't wait for you to get breakfast . 
I must get a move on . 
Still blue ? No , indeed . 
But his face was not convincing . 
Aren't you going to kiss me good by ? He laughed tenderly , yet in bitter self mockery too . 
And waste an hour or so ? Not much . 
What a siren you are ! She put her hand over her face quickly . 
Now , perhaps I can risk one kiss . 
He bent over her his lips touched her hair . 
She stretched out her hand , laid it against his cheek . 
No , don't look at me . 
Turn your face so that I can see your profile so ! She had turned his head with a hand that gently caressed as it pushed . 
I like that view best . 
Yes , you are strong and brave . 
You will succeed ! No I'll not keep you a minute . 
Go to sleep again , lazy ! cried he . 
I'll try to be home about dinner time . 
See that you behave today ! Good lord , how hard it is to leave you ! Having you makes nothing else seem worth while . 
Good by ! And he was off . 
She started to a sitting posture , listened to the faint sound of his descending footsteps . 
She darted to the window , leaned out , watched him until he rounded the corner into Broadway . 
And once more she thought all the thoughts that had filled her mind in the sleepless hours of that night and morning . 
Her eyes shifted in color from pure gray to pure violet back and forth , as emotion or thought dominated her mind . 
When she finished her coffee she took the scissors and cut out several of the demands for help . 
She moved through the routine of life precisely as we all do , whatever may be in our minds and hearts . 
She went out , crossed Long Acre and entered the shop of a dealer in women's cast off clothes . 
She reappeared in the street presently with a fat , sloppy looking woman in black . 
After long haggling the woman made a final price ninety five dollars for things , most of them almost new , which had cost upwards of seven hundred . 
Susan accepted the offer she knew she could do no better . 
The woman departed , returned with a porter and several huge sweets of wrapping paper . 
The two made three bundles of the purchases the money was paid over they and Susan's wardrobe departed . 
Into the bag she put the pistol from under Spenser's handkerchiefs in the third bureau drawer . 
When all was ready , she sent for the maid to straighten the rooms . 
While the maid was at work , she wrote this note DEAREST Mr. Drumley will tell you why I have gone . 
You will find some money under your handkerchiefs in the bureau . 
When you are on your feet again , I may come if you want me . 
It won't be any use for you to look for me . 
I ought to have gone before , but I was selfish and blind . 
Good by , dear love I wasn't so bad as you always suspected . 
I was true to you , and for the sake of what you have been to me and done for me I couldn't be so ungrateful as not to go . 
It's best for us both . 
Good by , dear heart I was true to you . 
She sealed this note , addressed it , fastened it over the mantel in the sitting room where they always put notes for each other . 
She had left for him the ninety five dollars and also eleven dollars of the money she had in her purse . 
She took with her two five dollar bills and a dollar and forty cents in change . 
The violet waned in her eyes , and in its stead came the gray of thought and action . 
The hardiest and best growths are the growths inward where they have sun and air from without . 
She had been at the theater several times every week , and had studied the performances at a point of view very different from that of the audience . 
It was there to be amused she was there to learn . 
Spenser and such of his friends as he would let meet her talked plays and acting most of the time . 
He had forbidden her to have women friends . 
Men don't demoralize women women demoralize each other , was one of his axioms . 
But such women as she had a bowing acquaintance with were all on the stage in comic operas or musical farces . 
She was much alone that meant many hours every day which could not but be spent by a mind like hers in reading and in thinking . 
Only those who have observed the difference aloneness makes in mental development , where there is a good mind , can appreciate how rapidly , how broadly , Susan expanded . 
She read plays more than any other kind of literature . 
She did not read them casually but was always thinking how they would act . 
She was soon making in imagination stage scenes out of dramatic chapters in novels as she read . 
More and more clearly the characters of play and novel took shape and substance before the eyes of her fancy . 
But the stage was clearly out of the question . 
While the idea of a stage career had been dominant , she had thought in other directions , also . 
Every Sunday , indeed almost every day , she found in the newspapers articles on the subject of work for women . 
Why do you waste time on that stuff ? said Drumley , when he discovered her taste for it . 
Oh , a woman never can tell what may happen , replied she . 
She'll never learn anything from those fool articles , answered he . 
You ought to hear the people who get them up laughing about them . 
I see now why they are printed . 
It's good for circulation , catches the women even women like you . 
However , she persisted in reading . 
All around her had been women who were making their way but few indeed of them even of those regarded as successful were getting along without outside aid of some kind . 
She felt now that there was hope in only one direction hope of occupation that would enable her to live in physical , moral and mental decency . 
She must find some employment where she could as decently as might be realize upon her physical assets . 
The stage would be best but the stage was impossible , at least for the time . 
However , just now the stage was impossible . 
Spenser would find her immediately . 
She must go into another part of town , must work at something that touched his life at no point . 
She had often been told that her figure would be one of her chief assets as a player . 
And ready made clothes fitted her with very slight alterations showing that she had a model figure . 
The advertisements she had cut out were for cloak models . 
Come up to my office , said Jeffries , who happened to be near the door as she entered . 
We'll see how you shape up . 
We want something extra something dainty and catchy . 
He was a short thick man , with flat feet , a flat face and an almost bald head . 
In his flat nostrils , in the hollows of his great forward bent ears and on the lobes were bunches of coarse , stiff gray hairs . 
His eyebrows bristled his small , sly brown eyes twinkled with good nature and with sensuality . 
His skin had the pallor that suggests kidney trouble . 
His words issued from his thick mouth as if he were tasting each beforehand and liked the flavor . 
He led Susan into his private office , closed the door , took a tape measure from his desk . 
Now , my dear , said he , eyeing her form gluttonously , we'll size you up eh ? You're exactly the build I like . 
And under the pretense of taking her measurements , he fumbled and felt , pinched and stroked every part of her person , laughing and chuckling the while . 
My , but you are sweet ! And so firm ! What flesh ! Solid solid ! Mighty healthy ! You are a good girl eh ? I am a married woman . 
But you've got no ring . 
I've never worn a ring . 
Well well ! I believe that is one of the new wrinkles , but I don't approve . 
I'm an old fashioned family man . 
Now , don't mind a poor old man like me , my dear . 
I've got a wife the best woman in the world , and I've never been untrue to her . 
A look over the fence occasionally but not an inch out of the pasture . 
Don't stiffen yourself like that . 
I can't judge , when you do . 
Not too much hips neither sides nor back . 
Fine ! Fine ! And the thigh slender yes quite lovely , my dear . 
Thick thighs spoil the hang of garments . 
Yes yes a splendid figure . 
I'll bet the bosom is a corker fine skin and nice ladylike size . 
You can have the place . 
What does it pay ? she asked . 
Ten dollars , to start with . 
I started on two fifty . 
But I forgot you don't know the business ? No nothing about it , was her innocent , honest answer . 
Ah well , then nine dollars eh ? Susan hesitated . 
You can make quite a neat little bunch on the outside you can . 
We cater only to the best trade , and the buyers who come to us are big easy spenders . 
But I'm supposed to know nothing about that . 
You'll find out from the other girls . 
Oh , it's a nice soft life except for a few weeks along at this part of the year and again in winter . 
Well ten dollars , then . 
Not so long as her figure lasted was she the worse off for not knowing a trade . 
Jeffries was telling the truth she would be getting splendid wages , not merely for a beginner but for any woman of the working class . 
Thanks to her figure to its chancing to please old Jeffries' taste she was better off than all but a few working women , than all but a few workingmen . 
She was of the labor aristocracy and if she had been one of a family of workers she would have been counted an enviable favorite of fortune . 
Unfortunately , she was alone unfortunately for herself , not at all from the standpoint of the tenement class she was now joining . 
Among them she would be a person who could afford the luxuries of life as life reveals itself to the tenements . 
Tomorrow morning at seven o'clock , said Jeffries . 
You have lost your husband ? Yes . 
I saw you'd had great grief . 
No insurance , I judge ? Well you will find another maybe a rich one . 
No you'll not have to sleep alone long , my dear . 
And he patted her on the shoulder , gave her a parting fumble of shoulders and arms . 
Also , experience had taught her that , as things go with girls of the working class , his treatment was courteous , considerate , chivalrous almost . 
The odors or , rather , the visions they evoked made her sick at heart . 
For the moment she came from under the spell of her peculiar trait her power to do without whimper or vain gesture of revolt the inevitable thing , whatever it was . 
She paused to steady herself , half leaning against a lofty uppiling of winter cloaks . 
She had small regular features , eyes that at once suggested looseness , good natured yet mercenary too . 
She was dressed in the sleek tight fitting trying on robe of the professional model , and her figure was superb in its firm luxuriousness . 
Sick ? asked the girl with real kindliness . 
No only dizzy for the moment . 
I suppose you've had a hard day . 
It might have been easier , Susan replied , attempting a smile . 
It's no fun , looking for a job . 
But you've caught on ? Yes . 
I made a bet with myself that he would when I saw you go in . 
He picked you for Gideon . 
What department is that ? The girl laughed again , with a cynical squinting of the eyes . 
Oh , Gideon's our biggest customer . 
He buys for the largest house in Chicago . 
I'm looking for a place to live , said Susan . 
Some place in this part of town . 
How much do you want to spend ? I'm to have ten a week . 
Again the girl laughed , the good humored mercenary eyes twinkling rakishly . 
Well you can't get much for fourteen a month . 
I don't care , so long as it's clean . 
Gee , you're reasonable , ain't you ? cried the girl . 
Clean ! I pay fourteen a week , and all kinds of things come through the cracks from the other apartments . 
You must be a stranger to little old New York bugtown , a lady friend of mine calls it . 
Um The girl shook her head dubiously . 
Rents are mighty steep in New York , and going up all the time . 
You see , the rich people that own the lands and houses here need a lot of money in their business . 
You want to live respectable , I judge ? Yes . 
That's the way with me . 
I shan't want to see anyone in my room . 
The young woman winced , then went on with hasty enthusiasm . 
I knew you were refined the minute I looked at you . 
The south side's kind o' low , on account of dagoes having moved in there . 
They live like vermin but then all tenement people do . 
They've got to , said Susan . 
Yes , that's a fact . 
Ain't it awful ? I'll write down the name and address of my lady friend . 
My name is Lorna Sackville , said Susan , in response to the expectant look of Miss Hinkle . 
My , what a swell name ! You've been sick , haven't you ? No , I'm never sick . 
My mother taught me to stop eating as soon as I felt bad , and not to eat again till I was all right . 
I do that , too , said Susan . 
Is it good for the health ? It starves the doctors . 
You've never worked before ? Oh , yes I've worked in a factory . 
Then she gave Susan a side glance of incredulity . 
I'd never , a' thought it . 
But I can see you weren't brought up to that . 
And she went back through the showroom , presently to reappear with a card which she gave Susan . 
You'll find Mrs. Tucker a perfect lady too much a lady to get on . 
I tell her she'll go to ruin and she will . 
Susan thanked Miss Hinkle and departed . 
A few minutes' walk brought her to the old , high stooped , brown stone where Mrs. Tucker lived . 
Respectable undoubtedly for the fitfully prosperous offenders against laws and morals insist upon better accommodations . 
She saw that once more she was clinging at the edge of the precipice . 
And what hope was there that she would get back to firm ground ? Certainly not by honest labor . 
Back to the tenement ! Yes , I'm on the way back , she said to herself . 
Only by standing did Susan avoid service as a dust rag . 
It is chiefly due to an unconscious instinctive feeling of the hopelessness of the average lot . 
While Susan explained to Mrs. Tucker how she had come and what she could afford , she examined her with results far from disagreeable . 
Such a woman as a landlady , and a landlady in New York , was pathetically absurd . 
I've only got one room , said Mrs. Tucker . 
That's not any too nice . 
I did rather calculate to get five a week for it , but you are the kind I like to have in the house . 
So if you want it I'll let it to you for fourteen a month . 
And I do hope you'll pay as steady as you can . 
There's so many in such hard lines that I have a tough time with my rent . 
I've got to pay my rent , you know . 
I'll go as soon as I can't pay , replied Susan . 
The landlady's apologetic tone made her sick at heart , as a sensitive human being must ever feel in the presence of a fellow being doomed to disaster . 
Thank you , said Mrs. Tucker gratefully . 
I do wish She checked herself . 
No , I don't mean that . 
They do the best they can and I'll botch along somehow . 
I look at the bright side of things . 
The incurable optimism of the smile accompanying these words moved Susan , abnormally bruised and tender of heart that morning , almost to tears . 
A woman with her own way to make , and always looking at the bright side ! How long have you had this house ? Only five months . 
My husband died a year ago . 
I had to give up our little business six months after his death . 
Such a nice little stationery store , but I couldn't seem to refuse credit or to collect bills . 
This looks like losing , too . 
But I'm sure I'll come out all right . 
The Lord will provide , as the Good Book says . 
I don't have no trouble keeping the house full . 
Only they don't seem to pay . 
You want to see your room ? She and Susan ascended three flights to the top story to a closet of a room at the back . 
The walls were newly and brightly papered . 
The sloping roof of the house made one wall a ceiling also , and in this two small windows were set . 
Along one wall ran a row of hooks . 
Susan glanced round a glance was enough to enable her to see all all that was there , all that the things there implied . 
Back to the tenement life ! She shuddered . 
It ain't much , said Mrs. Tucker . 
But usually rooms like these rents for five a week . 
The sun had heated the roof scorching hot the air of this room , immediately underneath , was like that of a cellar where a furnace is in full blast . 
But Susan knew she was indeed in luck . 
It's clean and nice here , said she to Mrs. Tucker , and I'm much obliged to you for being so reasonable with me . 
And to clinch the bargain she then and there paid half a month's rent . 
I'll give you the rest when my week at the store's up . 
No hurry , said Mrs. Tucker who was handling the money and looking at it with glistening grateful eyes . 
Us poor folks oughtn't to be hard on each other though , Lord knows , if we was , I reckon we'd not be quite so poor . 
It's them that has the streak of hard in 'em what gets on . 
But the Bible teaches us that's what to expect in a world of sin . 
I suppose you want to go now and have your trunk sent ? This is all I've got , said Susan , indicating her bag on the table . 
Into Mrs. Tucker's face came a look of terror that made Susan realize in an instant how hard pressed she must be . 
It was the kind of look that comes into the eyes of the deer brought down by the dogs when it sees the hunter coming up . 
But I've a good place , Susan hastened to say . 
I get ten a week . 
And as I told you before , when I can't pay I'll go right away . 
I've lost so much in bad debts , explained the landlady humbly . 
I don't seem to see which way to turn . 
It'll all come out for the best . 
I work hard and I try to do right by everybody . 
I'm sure it will , said Susan believingly . 
Often her confidence in the moral ideals trained into her from childhood had been sorely tried . 
But never had she permitted herself more than a hasty , ashamed doubt that the only way to get on was to work and to practice the Golden Rule . 
She had cultivated the habit of spending much time about her purchases of every kind had spent time intelligently in saving money intelligently . 
She had gone from shop to shop , comparing values and prices . 
She had learned the fundamental truth of the material art of living only when a good thing happens to be cheap is a cheap thing good . 
Spenser , cross examining her as to how she passed the days , found out about this education she was acquiring . 
A waste of time ! he used to say . 
Pay what they ask , and don't bother your head with such petty matters . 
He might have suspected and accused her of being stingy had not her generosity been about the most obvious and incessant trait of her character . 
She was now reduced to an income below what life can be decently maintained upon the life of a city dweller with normal tastes for cleanliness and healthfulness . 
She proceeded without delay to put her invaluable education into use . 
She must fill her mind with the present and with the future . 
She must not glance back . 
She must ignore her wounds their aches , their clamorous throbs . 
She took off her clothes , as soon as Mrs. Tucker left her alone , brushed them and hung them up , put on the thin wrapper she had brought in her bag . 
The fierce heat of the little packing case of a room became less unendurable also , she was saving the clothes from useless wear . 
She sat down at the table and with pencil and paper planned her budget . 
Of the ten dollars a week , three dollars and thirty cents must be subtracted for rent for shelter . 
This left six dollars and seventy cents for the other two necessaries , food and clothing there must be no incidental expenses since there was no money to meet them . 
She could not afford to provide for carfare on stormy days a rain coat , overshoes and umbrella , more expensive at the outset , were incomparably cheaper in the long run . 
Her washing and ironing she would of course do for herself in the evenings and on Sundays . 
Of the two items which the six dollars and seventy cents must cover , food came first in importance . 
How little could she live on ? That stifling hot room ! She was as wet as if she had come undried from a bath . 
She had thought she could never feel anything but love for the sun of her City of the Sun . 
She would soon have to buy clothes , however scrupulous care she might take of those she possessed . 
It was modest indeed to estimate fifteen dollars for clothes before October . 
That meant she must save fifteen dollars in the remaining three weeks of June , in July , August and September in one hundred and ten days . 
She must save about fifteen cents a day . 
And out of that she must buy soap and tooth powder , outer and under clothes , perhaps a hat and a pair of shoes . 
She must fight to keep health sick she did not dare be . 
She must fight to keep looks her figure was her income . 
The outlook was not so gloomy . 
She would carry lunch with her to the store . 
In the evening she would cook a chop or something of that kind on the gas stove she would buy . 
Some days she would be able to save twenty or even twenty five cents toward clothing and the like . 
Whatever else happened , she was resolved never again to sink to dirt and rags . 
Never again ! never ! She had passed through that experience once without loss of self respect only because it was by way of education . 
To go through it again would be yielding ground in the fight the fight for a destiny worth while which some latent but mighty instinct within her never permitted her to forget . 
She sat at the table , with the shutters closed against the fiery light of the summer afternoon sun . 
A city like the City of Destruction in Pilgrim's Progress a city where of all the millions , but a few thousands were moving toward or keeping in the sunlight of civilization . 
She would not be of those ! She would struggle on , would sink only to mount . 
She would work she would try to do as nearly right as she could . 
And in the end she must triumph . 
She would get at least a good part of what her soul craved , of what her mind craved , of what her heart craved . 
It was no better , no worse than the lodgings of more than two hundred thousand New Yorkers . 
With this water and what she had in her little pitcher , Susan contrived to freshen herself up . 
These purchases had reduced her cash to forty three cents and she ought to buy without delay a clock with an alarm attachment . 
And pay day Saturday was two days away . 
When she had finished , she completed her toilet . 
The final glance at herself in the little mirror was depressing . 
She looked fresh for her new surroundings and for her new class . 
But in comparison with what she usually looked , already there was a distinct , an ominous falling off . 
I'm glad Rod never saw me looking like this , she said aloud drearily . 
Taking a roll for lunch , she issued forth at half past six . 
The hour and three quarters she had allowed for dressing and breakfasting had been none too much . 
In the coolness and comparative quiet she went down University Place and across Washington Square under the old trees , all alive with song and breeze and flashes of early morning light . 
She was soon in Broadway's deep canyon , was drifting absently along in the stream of cross , mussy looking workers pushing southward . 
Her heart ached , her brain throbbed . 
It was horrible , this loneliness and every one of the wounds where she had severed the ties with Spenser was bleeding . 
She was astonished to find herself before the building whose upper floors were occupied by Jeffries and Jonas . 
How had she got there ? Where had she crossed Broadway ? Good morning , Miss Sackville . 
It was Miss Hinkle , just arriving . 
Her eyes were heavy , and there were the crisscross lines under them that tell a story to the expert in the different effects of different kinds of dissipation . 
Miss Hinkle was showing her age and she was no spring chicken . 
Susan returned her greeting , gazing at her with the dazed eyes and puzzled smile of an awakening sleeper . 
I'll show you the ropes , said Miss Hinkle , as they climbed the two flights of stairs . 
You'll find the job dead easy . 
They're mighty nice people to work for , Mr. Jeffries especially . 
Not easy fruit , of course , but nice for people that have got on . 
You didn't sleep well ? Yes I think so . 
I didn't have a chance to drop round last night . 
I was out with one of the buyers . 
How do you like Mrs. Tucker ? She's very good , isn't she ? She'll never get along . 
She works hard , too but not for herself . 
In this world you have to look out for Number One . 
I had a swell dinner last night . 
Lobster I love lobster and elegant champagne up to Murray's such a refined place all fountains and mirrors really quite artistic . 
And my gentleman friend was so nice and respectful . 
You know , we have to go out with the buyers when they ask us . 
It helps the house sell goods . 
And we have to be careful not to offend them . 
Miss Hinkle's tone in the last remark was so significant that Susan looked at her and , looking , understood . 
They always sympathize with her but well , I've noticed that somehow she soon loses her job . 
What do you do when when a customer annoys you ? I ! Miss Hinkle laughed with some embarrassment . 
Oh , I do the best I can . 
A swift glance of the cynical , laughing , fast eyes at Susan and away . 
The best I can for the house and for myself . 
I talk to you because I know you're a lady and because I don't want to see you thrown down . 
A woman that's living quietly at home like a lady she can be squeamish . 
But out in the world a woman can't afford to be no , nor a man , neither . 
You don't find this set down in the books , and they don't preach it in the churches leastways they didn't when I used to go to church . 
But it's true , all the same . 
They were a few minutes early so Miss Hinkle continued the conversation while they waited for the opening of the room where Susan would be outfitted for her work . 
I called you Miss Sackville , said she , but you've been married haven't you ? Yes . 
I can always tell or at least I can see whether a woman's had experience or not . 
Well , I've never been regularly married , and I don't expect to , unless something pretty good offers . 
Think I'd marry one of these rotten little clerks ? Miss Hinkle answered her own question with a scornful sniff . 
They can hardly make a living for themselves . 
And a man who amounts to anything , he wants a refined lady to help him on up , not a working girl . 
Of course , there're exceptions . 
But as a rule a girl in our position either has to stay single or marry beneath her marry some mechanic or such like . 
Well , I ain't so lazy , or so crazy about being supported , that I'd sink to be cook and slop carrier and worse for a carpenter or a bricklayer . 
Going out with the buyers the gentlemanly ones has spoiled my taste . 
I can't stand a coarse man coarse dress and hands and manners . 
Can you ? Susan turned hastily away , so that her face was hidden from Miss Hinkle . 
I'll bet you wasn't married to a coarse man . 
I'd rather not talk about myself , said Susan with an effort . 
Her manner of checking Miss Hinkle's friendly curiosity did not give offense it excited the experienced working woman's sympathy . 
She went on Well , I feel sorry for any woman that has to work . 
Of course most women do and at worse than anything in the stores and factories . 
As between being a drudge to some dirty common laborer like most women are , and working in a factory even , give me the factory . 
Yes , give me a job as a pot slinger even , low as that is . 
Oh , I hate working people ! I love refinement . 
As she looked at herself in a long glass in one of the show parlors , her face did not reflect the admiration frankly displayed upon the faces of the two other women . 
That satin slip seemed to have a moral quality , an immoral character . 
It made her feel naked no , as if she were naked and being peeped at through a crack or keyhole . 
You'll soon get used to it , Miss Hinkle assured her . 
And you'll learn to show off the dresses and cloaks to the best advantage . 
She laughed her insinuating little laugh again , amused , cynical , reckless . 
You know , the buyers are men . 
Gee , what awful jay things we work off on them , sometimes ! They can't see the dress for the figure . 
And you've got such a refined figure , Miss Sackville the kind I'd be crazy about if I was a man . 
But I must say here she eyed herself in the glass complacently most men prefer a figure like mine . 
Don't they , Miss Simmons ? The stock keeper shook her fat shoulders in a gesture of indifferent disdain . 
They take whatever's handiest that's my experience . 
About half past nine the first customer appeared Mr. Gideon , it happened to be . 
He was making the rounds of the big wholesale houses in search of stock for the huge Chicago department store that paid him fifteen thousand a year and expenses . 
He had been contemptuous of the offerings of Jeffries and Jonas for the winter season , had praised with enthusiasm the models of their principal rival , Icklemeier , Schwartz and Company . 
They were undecided whether he was really thinking of deserting them or was feeling for lower prices . 
Mr. Jeffries bustled into the room where Susan stood waiting his flat face quivered with excitement . 
Gid's come ! he said in a hoarse whisper . 
We'll try Miss Sackville on him . 
And he himself assisted while they tricked out Susan in an afternoon costume of pale gray , putting on her head a big pale gray hat with harmonizing feathers . 
The model was offered in all colors and also in a modified form that permitted its use for either afternoon or evening . 
Susan had received her instructions , so when she was dressed , she was ready to sweep into Gideon's presence with languid majesty . 
Jeffries' eyes glistened as he noted her walk . 
She looks as if she really was a lady ! exclaimed he . 
I wish I could make my daughters move around on their trotters like that . 
Gideon was enthroned in an easy chair , smoking a cigar . 
He was a spare man of perhaps forty five , with no intention of abandoning the pretensions to youth for many a year . 
In dress he was as spick and span as a tailor at the trade's annual convention . 
What's the matter ? he snapped , as the door began to open . 
I don't like to he kept waiting . 
In swept Susan and Jeffries , rubbing his thick hands , said fawningly , But I think , Mr. Gideon , you'll say it was worth waiting for . 
Gideon's angry , arrogant eyes softened at first glimpse of Susan . 
Um ! he grunted , some such sound as the jaguar aforesaid would make when the first chunk of food hurtled through the bars and landed on his paws . 
He sat with cigar poised between his long white fingers while Susan walked up and down before him , displaying the dress at all angles , Jeffries expatiating upon it the while . 
Don't talk so damn much , Jeff ! he commanded with the insolence of a customer containing possibilities of large profit . 
I'm not a damn fool . 
I should say not , cried Jeffries , laughing the merchant's laugh for a customer's pleasantry . 
As his gentle , insinuating hands traveled over her , his eyes sought hers . 
Excuse me , said Jeffries . 
I'll see that they get the other things ready . 
And out he went , winking at Mary Hinkle to follow him an unnecessary gesture as she was already on her way to the door . 
Gideon understood as well as did they why they left . 
I don't think I've seen you before , my dear , said he to Susan . 
I came only this morning , replied she . 
I like to know everybody I deal with . 
We must get better acquainted . 
You've got the best figure in the business the very best . 
Thank you , said Susan with a grave , distant smile . 
I'll send a cab for you at seven o'clock . 
Thank you , said Susan , but I can't go . 
Oh , don't be shy . 
He'll tell you it's all right . 
There are reasons why I'd rather not be seen in the restaurants . 
I'll come in the cab myself and we'll go to a quiet place . 
His eyes smiled insinuatingly at her . 
His teeth were even and sound , his lips firm yet not too thin . 
Come , said he persuasively . 
I'll not eat you up with a gay and gracious smile at least I'll try not to . 
Susan remembered what Miss Hinkle had told her . 
She saw that she must either accept the invitation or give up her position . 
She said Very well , and gave him her address . 
Back came Jeffries and Miss Hinkle carrying the first of the wraps . 
You've shown 'em to me before , said he . 
I don't want to see 'em again . 
Give me the evening gowns . 
Susan withdrew , soon to appear in a dress that left her arms and neck bare . 
Gideon could not get enough of this . 
Gideon tried to draw her into conversation , but she would indeed could go no further than direct answers to his direct questions . 
Never mind , said he to her in an undertone . 
I'll cheer you up this evening . 
I think I know how to order a dinner . 
Her instant conquest of the difficult and valuable Gideon so elated Jeffries that he piled the work on her . 
He used her with every important buyer who came that day . 
The temperature was up in the high nineties , the hot moist air stood stagnant as a barnyard pool the winter models were cruelly hot and heavy . 
The other girls , even those doing almost nothing , were all but prostrated . 
It was little short of intolerable , this struggle to gain the honest , self respecting living by honest work that there was so much talk about . 
Toward five o'clock her nerves abruptly and completely gave way , and she fainted for the first time in her life . 
At once the whole establishment was in an uproar . 
Jeffries cursed himself loudly for his shortsightedness , for his overestimating her young strength . 
She'll look like hell this evening , he wailed , wringing his hands like a distracted peasant woman . 
Maybe she won't be able to go out at all . 
They brought her whiskey , and afterward tea and sandwiches . 
And with the power of quick recuperation that is the most fascinating miracle of healthy youth , she not only showed no sign of her breakdown but looked much better . 
Susan came out of her fit of faintness and exhaustion with a different point of view as if time had been long at work softening her , grief . 
Spenser seemed part of the present no longer , but of the past a past far more remote than yesterday . 
Mary Hinkle sat with her as she drank the tea . 
Did you make a date with Gid ? inquired she . 
Her tone let Susan know that the question had been prompted by Jeffries . 
He asked me to dine with him , and I said I would . 
Have you got a nice dress dinner dress , I mean ? The linen one I'm wearing is all . 
My other dress is for cooler weather . 
Then I'll give you one out of stock I mean I'll borrow one for you . 
This dinner's a house affair , you know to get Gid's order . 
It'll be worth thousands to them . 
There wouldn't be anything to fit me on such short notice , said Susan , casting about for an excuse for not wearing borrowed finery . 
Why , you've got a model figure . 
I'll pick you out a white dress and a black and white hat . 
I know 'em all , and I know one that'll make you look simply lovely . 
She was profoundly indifferent to what happened to her . 
Life seemed a show in which she had no part , and at which she sat a listless spectator . 
A few minutes , and in puffed Jeffries , solicitous as a fussy old bird with a new family . 
You're a lot better , ain't you ? cried he , before he had looked at her . 
Oh , yes , you'll be all right . 
And you'll have a lovely time with Mr. Gideon . 
He's a perfect gentleman knows how to treat a lady . 
The minute I laid eyes on you I said to myself , said I , Jeffries , she's a mascot . 
And you are , my dear . 
You'll get us the order . 
But you mustn't talk business with him , you understand ? Yes , said Susan , wearily . 
He's a gentleman , you know , and it don't do to mix business and social pleasures . 
You string him along quiet and ladylike and elegant , as if there wasn't any such things as cloaks or dresses in the world . 
If you land the order , my dear , I'll see that you get a nice present . 
A nice dress the one we're going to lend you if he gives us a slice . 
The dress and twenty five in cash , if he gives us all . 
How's that ? Thank you , said Susan . 
I feel as if we had it with his O. K. on it . 
Don't don't count on me too much , she said hesitatingly . 
I'm not in very good spirits , I'm sorry to say . 
A little pressed for money ? Jeffries hesitated , made an effort , blurted out what was for him , the business man , a giddy generosity . 
On your way out , stop at the cashier's . 
He'll give you this week's pay in advance . 
Jeffries hesitated , decided against dangerous liberality . 
Not ten , you understand , but say six . 
You see , you won't have been with us a full week . 
And he hurried away , frightened by his prodigality , by these hysterical impulses that were rushing him far from the course of sound business sense . 
As Jones says , I'm a generous old fool , he muttered . 
My soft heart'll ruin me yet . 
Jeffries sent Mary Hinkle home with Susan to carry the dress and hat , to help her make a toilet and to start her off right . 
And Susan's sensitive nature was soon vibrating in response to this feeling . 
It terrified her that she , the inexperienced , had such grave responsibility . 
Have you got long white gloves ? asked Mary Hinkle , as they walked up Broadway , she carrying the dress and Susan the hat box . 
Only a few pairs of short ones . 
You must have long white gloves and a pair of white stockings . 
Oh , Jeffries told me to ask you and to go to work and buy them if you hadn't . 
Susan was about to pay , when Mary stopped her . 
If you pay , said she , maybe you'll get your money back from the house , and maybe you won't . 
If I pay , they'll not make a kick on giving it back to me . 
The dress Mary had selected was a simple white batiste , cut out at the neck prettily , and with the elbow sleeves that were then the fashion . 
Your arms and throat are lovely , said Mary . 
And your hands are mighty nice , too that's why I'm sure you've never been a real working girl leastways , not for a long time . 
If you don't land high , it'll be because you're a fool . 
I'm afraid I am , replied Susan . 
Yes , I guess I'm what's called a fool what probably is a fool . 
You want to look out then , warned Miss Hinkle . 
You want to go to work and get over that . 
Beauty don't count , unless a girl's got shrewdness . 
The streets are full of beauties sellin' out for a bare living . 
They thought they couldn't help winning , and they got left , and the plain girls who had to hustle and manage have passed them . 
Are they raving tearing beauties ? Not often . 
The trouble with me is I've been too good hearted and too soft about being flattered . 
I was too good looking , and a small easy living came too easy . 
You I'd say you were that you had brains but were shy about using them . 
What's the good of having them ? Might as well be a boob . 
Then , too , you've got to go to work and look out about being too refined . 
The refined , nice ones goes the lowest if they get pushed and this is a pushing world . 
You'll get pushed just as far as you'll let 'em . 
I've been down the line . 
Susan's low spirits sank lower . 
These disagreeable truths for observation and experience made her fear they were truths filled her with despondency . 
This is no place for a lady ! cried she . 
But it won't last long not after tonight , if you play your cards halfway right . 
I'm very well satisfied , said Susan . 
If I can only keep this ! She felt no interest in the toilet until the dress and hat were unpacked and laid out upon the bed . 
Ellen , the maid , passing the door , saw and entered to add her ecstatic exclamations to the excitement . 
Down she ran to bring Mrs. Tucker , who no sooner beheld the glory displayed upon the humble bed than she too was in a turmoil . 
Susan dressed with the aid of three maids as interested and eager as ever robed a queen for coronation . 
Ellen brought hot water and a larger bowl . 
Mrs. Tucker wished to lend a highly scented toilet soap she used when she put on gala attire but Susan insisted upon her own plain soap . 
They all helped her bathe they helped her select the best underclothes from her small store . 
Susan would put on her own stockings but Ellen got one foot into one of the slippers and Mrs. Tucker looked after the other foot . 
Ain't they lovely ? said Ellen to Mrs. Tucker , as they knelt together at their task . 
I never see such feet . 
Not a lump on 'em , but like feet in a picture . 
It takes a mighty good leg to look good in a white stocking , observed Mary . 
But yours is so nice and long and slim that they'd stand most anything . 
Mrs. Tucker and Ellen stood by with no interference save suggestion and comment , while Mary , who at one time worked for a hairdresser , did Susan's thick dark hair . 
Susan would permit no elaborations , much to Miss Hinkle's regret . 
And now came the putting on of the dress . 
With as much care as if they were handling a rare and fragile vase , Mary and Mrs. Tucker held the dress for Susan to step into it . 
Ellen kept her petticoat in place while the other two escorted the dress up Susan's form . 
Then the three worked together at hooking and smoothing . 
Last of all the gloves went on and a small handkerchief was thrust into the palm of the left glove . 
How do I look ? asked Susan . 
Lovely Fine Just grand , exclaimed the three maids . 
I feel awfully dressed up , said she . 
And it's so hot ! You must go right downstairs where it's cool and you won't get wilted , cried Mrs. Tucker . 
Hold your skirts close on the way . 
The steps and walls ain't none too clean . 
In the bathroom downstairs there was a long mirror built into the wall , a relic of the old house's long departed youth of grandeur . 
As the tenant Mr. Jessop was out , Mrs. Tucker led the way into it . 
There Susan had the first satisfactory look at herself . 
She knew she was a pretty woman she would have been weak minded had she not known it . 
But she was amazed at herself . 
She hardly knew the tall beautiful woman of fashion gazing at her from the mirror . 
This is the way I ought to look all the time , thought she . 
And this is the way I will look ! Only better much better . 
How much do you suppose the dress cost , Miss Hinkle ? asked Ellen the question Mrs. Tucker had been dying to put but had refrained from putting lest it should sound unrefined . 
It costs ninety wholesale , said Miss Hinkle . 
That'd mean a hundred and twenty five a hundred and fifty , maybe if you was to try to buy it in a department store . 
And the hat well , Lichtenstein'd ask fifty or sixty for it and never turn a hair . 
Gosh ee ? exclaimed Ellen . 
Did you ever hear the like ? I'm not surprised , said Mrs. Tucker , who in fact was flabbergasted . 
Well it's worth the money to them that can afford to buy it . 
The good Lord put everything on earth to be used , I reckon . 
And Miss Sackville is the build for things like that . 
Now it'd be foolish on me , with a stomach and sitter that won't let no skirt hang fit to look at . 
The excitement died from Susan's face , leaving it pale and cold . 
A wave of nausea swept through her . 
Ellen peeped out , Mrs. Tucker and Miss Hinkle listening with anxious faces . 
It's him ! whispered Ellen , and there's a taxi , too . 
It was decided that Ellen should go to the door , that as she opened it Susan should come carelessly from the back room and advance along the hall . 
And this program was carried out with the result that as Gideon said , Is Miss Sackville here ? Miss Sackville appeared before his widening , wondering , admiring eyes . 
He came perfumed and rustling . 
Don't you think we might dine on the veranda at Sherry's ? suggested he . 
At sight of him she had nerved herself , had keyed herself up toward recklessness . 
She was in for it . 
She would put it through . 
The circuit of Spenser and his friends lay in the more Bohemian Broadway district . 
He had taken her to Sherry's only once , to see as part of a New York education the Sunday night crowd of fashionable people . 
If you like , said she . 
She leaned from the cab window , waved her hand , smiled . 
The three faces instantly appeared and immediately hid again lest Gideon should see . 
But Gideon was too busy planning conversation . 
He knew Miss Sackville was as common as the rest of 'em and an old hand at the business , no doubt . 
But he simply could not abruptly break through the barrier he must squirm through gradually . 
That's a swell outfit you've got on , he began . 
Yes , replied Susan with her usual candor . 
Miss Hinkle borrowed it out of the stock for me to wear . 
He knew how she had got the hat and dress , but he expected her to make a pretense . 
He couldn't understand her not doing it . 
Such candor any kind of candor wasn't in the game of men and women as women had played it in his experience . 
The women all sorts of women lied and faked at their business just as men did in the business of buying and selling goods . 
And her voice and her way of speaking they made him feel more than ever out of his class . 
He must get something to drink as soon as it could be served that would put him at his ease . 
Yes a drink that would set him up again . 
And a drink for her that would bring her down from this queer new kind of high horse . 
I guess she must be a top notcher the real thing , come down in the world and not out of the near silks . 
But she'll be all right after a drink . 
One drink of liquor makes the whole world kin . 
That last thought reminded him of his own cleverness and he attacked the situation afresh . 
But the conversation as they drove up the avenue was on the whole constrained and intermittent chiefly about the weather . 
Susan was observing and feeling and enjoying . 
Up bubbled her young spirits perpetually renewed by her healthy , vital youth of body . 
She was seeing her beloved City of the Sun again . 
As they turned out of the avenue for Sherry's main entrance Susan realized that she was in Forty fourth Street . 
The street where she and Spenser had lived ! had lived only yesterday . 
No not yesterday impossible ! Her eyes closed and she leaned back in the cab . 
Gideon was waiting to help her alight . 
He saw that something was wrong it stood out obviously in her ghastly face . 
He feared the carriage men round the entrance would catch on to the fact that he was escorting a girl so unused to swell surroundings that she was ready to faint with fright . 
Don't be foolish , he said sharply . 
Susan revived herself , descended , and with head bent low and trembling body entered the restaurant . 
In the agitation of getting a table and settling at it Gideon forgot for the moment her sickly pallor . 
He began to order at once , not consulting her for he prided himself on his knowledge of cookery and assumed that she knew nothing about it . 
Have a cocktail ? asked he . 
Yes , of course you will . 
You need it bad and you need it quick . 
She said she preferred sherry . 
She had intended to drink nothing , but she must have aid in conquering her faintness and overwhelming depression . 
Gideon took a dry martini ordered a second for himself when the first came , and had them both down before she finished her sherry . 
I've ordered champagne , said he . 
I suppose you like sweet champagne . 
Most ladies do , but I can't stand seeing it served even . 
No I like it very dry , said Susan . 
Gideon glinted his eyes gayly at her , showed his white jaguar teeth . 
Do you know , I've a sort of feeling that we're going to like each other a lot . 
I think we make a handsome couple eh what's your first name ? Lorna . 
My name's Ed , but everybody calls me Gid . 
As soon as the melon was served , he ordered the champagne opened . 
To our better acquaintance , said he , lifting his glass toward her . 
Thank you , said she , in a suffocated voice , touching her glass to her lips . 
He was too polite to speak , even in banter , of what he thought was the real cause of her politeness and silence . 
But he must end this state of overwhelmedness at grand surroundings . 
Said he You're kind o' shy , aren't you , Lorna ? Or is that your game ? I don't know . 
You've had a very interesting life , haven't you ? Won't you tell me about it ? Oh just ordinary , replied he , with a proper show of modesty . 
Susan seemed interested , but her mind refused to occupy itself with a narrative so commonplace . 
After Rod and his friends this boastful business man was dull and tedious . 
Whenever he laughed at an account of his superior craft how he had bluffed this man , how he had euchered that one she smiled . 
But , he wound up , I've stayed plain Ed Gideon . 
I never have let prosperity swell my head . 
And anyone that knows me'll tell you I'm a regular fool for generosity with those that come at me right . 
I've always been a favorite with the ladies . 
As he was pausing for comment from her , she said , I can believe it . 
The word generosity kept echoing in her mind . 
How much talk there was about it ! Everyone was forever praising himself for his generosity , was reciting acts of the most obvious selfishness in proof . 
Was there any such thing in the whole world as real generosity ? They like a generous man , pursued Gid . 
I'm tight in business I can see a dollar as far as the next man and chase it as hard and grab it as tight . 
But when it comes to the ladies , why , I'm open handed . 
If they treat me right , I treat them right . 
Then , fearing that he had tactlessly raised a doubt of his invincibility , he hastily added , But they always do treat me right . 
While he had been talking on and on , Susan had been appealing to the champagne to help her quiet her aching heart . 
How do you mean ? replied Susan , with the dexterity at vagueness that habitually self veiling people acquire as an instinct . 
Why , as a man . 
Oh you you're very different . 
I am different , swelled Gideon . 
You see , it's this way And he was off again into another eulogy of himself it carried them through the dinner and two quarts of champagne . 
He rustled and snapped it before laying it upon the tray , but her eyes looked vague . 
Well , said he , after a comfortable pull at an expensive looking cigar , sixteen seventy five is quite a lively little peel off for a dinner for only two . 
But it was worth it , don't you think ? It was a splendid dinner , said Susan truthfully . 
Gideon beamed in intoxicated good humor . 
I knew you'd like it . 
Nothing pleases me better than to take a nice girl who isn't as well off as I am out and blow her off to a crackerjack dinner . 
Now , you may have thought a dollar was too much to tip the waiter ? A dollar is a dollar , isn't it ? said Susan . 
I used to think so . 
And most men wouldn't give that much to a waiter . 
But I feel sorry for poor devils who don't happen to be as lucky or as brainy as I am . 
What do you say to a turn in the Park ? We'll take a hansom , and kind of jog along . 
And we'll stop at the Casino and at Gabe's for a drink . 
I have to get up so early began Susan . 
Oh , that's all right . 
He slowly winked at her . 
You'll not have to bump the bumps for being late tomorrow if you treat me right . 
He carried his liquor easily . 
Only in his eyes and in his ever more slippery smile that would slide about his face did he show that he had been drinking . 
He helped her into a hansom with a flourish and , overruling her protests , bade the driver go to the Casino . 
Once under way she was glad her hot skin and her weary heart were grateful for the air blowing down the avenue from the Park's expanse of green . 
When Gideon attempted to put his arm around her , she moved close into the corner and went on talking so calmly about calm subjects that he did not insist . 
But when he had tossed down a drink of whiskey at the Casino and they resumed the drive along the moonlit , shady roads , he tried again . 
Please , said she , don't spoil a delightful evening . 
Now look here , my dear haven't I treated you right ? Indeed you have , Mr. Gideon . 
Oh , don't be so damned formal . 
Forget the difference between our positions . 
Tomorrow I'm going to place a big order with your house , if you treat me right . 
I'm dead stuck on you and that's a God's fact . 
You've taken me clean off my feet . 
I'm thinking of doing a lot for you . 
What do you say to throwing up your job and coming to Chicago with me ? How much do you get ? Ten . 
Why , you can't live on that . 
I've lived on less much less . 
Do you like it ? Naturally not . 
You want to get on don't you ? I must . 
You're down in the heart about something . 
Love ? Susan was silent . 
Cut it out , my dear . 
That ain't the way to get on . 
Love's a good consolation prize , if you ain't going to get anywhere , and know you ain't . 
And it's a good first prize after you've arrived and can afford the luxuries of life . 
But for a man or a woman that's pushing up , it's sheer ruination ! Cut it out ! I am cutting it out , said Susan . 
Not if you've got sense . 
The way to cut anything out is cut it out ! a quick slash just cut . 
He had Susan's attention for the first time . 
Do you know why women don't get on ? Tell me , said she . 
That's what I want to hear . 
Because they don't play the game under the rules . 
Now , what does a man do ? Why , he stakes everything he's got does whatever's necessary , don't stop at nothing to help him get there . 
How is it with women ? Some try to be virtuous when their bodies are their best assets . 
God ! I wish I'd 'a' had your looks and your advantages as a woman to help me . 
I'd be a millionaire this minute , with a house facing this Park and a yacht and all the rest of it . 
A woman that's squeamish about her virtue can't hope to win unless she's in a position to make a good marriage . 
As for the loose ones , they are as big fools as the virtuous ones . 
The virtuous ones lock away their best asset the loose ones throw it away . 
Do you follow me ? I think so . 
Susan was listening with a mind made abnormally acute by the champagne she had freely drunk . 
The coarse bluntness and directness of the man did not offend her . 
It made what he said the more effective , producing a rude arresting effect upon her nerves . 
It made the man himself seem more of a person . 
Susan was beginning to have a kind of respect for him , to change her first opinion that he was merely a vulgar , pushing commonplace . 
Never thought of that before ? Yes I've thought of it . 
But what ? Oh , nothing . 
Some womanish heart nonsense , I suppose . 
Do you see the application of what I've said to you and me ? Go on . 
She was leaning forward , her elbows on the closed doors of the hansom , her eyes gazing dreamily into the moonlit dimness of the cool woods through which they were driving . 
You don't want to stick at ten per ? No. It'll be less in a little while . 
And anyhow it means tenement house . 
Well what then ? What's your plan ? I haven't any . 
Haven't a plan yet want to get on ! Is that good sense ? Did ever anybody get anywhere without a plan ? I'm willing to work . 
Nobody can keep alive without working . 
You might as well say you're going to breathe and eat Work don't amount to anything , for getting on . 
It's the kind of work working in a certain direction working with a plan . 
But I can't begin at it just yet . 
Will it take money ? Some . 
Have you got it ? No , replied Susan . 
I'll have to get it . 
As an honest working girl ? said he with good humored irony . 
It does sound ridiculous , doesn't it ? said she . 
Here's another thing that maybe you haven't counted in . 
Looking as you do , do you suppose men that run things'll let you get past without paying toll ? Not on your life , my dear . 
If you was ugly , you might after several years get twenty or twenty five by working hard unless you lost your figure first . 
But the men won't let a good looker rise that way . 
Do you follow me ? Yes . 
Take you and me for example . 
I can help you help you a lot . 
In fact I can put you on your feet . 
If you was a man and I liked you and wanted to help you , I'd make you help me , too . 
I'd make you do a lot of things for me maybe some of 'em not so very nice maybe some of 'em downright dirty . 
And you'd do 'em , as all young fellows , struggling up , have to . 
So I'm willing to make easier terms . 
But I can't help you with you not showing any appreciation . 
That wouldn't be good business would it ? to get no return but , Oh , thank you so much , Mr. Gideon . 
I'll remember you in my prayers . 
Would that be sensible ? No , said Susan . 
Ain't I right ? Do you follow me ? I follow you . 
Some vague accent in Susan's voice made him feel dissatisfied with her response . 
I hope you do , he said sharply . 
What I'm saying is dresses on your back and dollars in your pocket and getting on in the world if you work it right . 
Getting on in the world , said Susan , pensively . 
I suppose that's a sneer . 
About love being all a woman needs to make her happy , I suppose ? No. Love is Well , it isn't happiness . 
Because you let it run you , instead of you running it . 
Sure ! Now , let me tell you , Lorna dear . 
Comfort and luxury , money in bank , property , a good solid position that's the foundation . 
Build on that and you'll build solid . 
Build on love and sentiment and you're building upside down . 
You're putting the gingerbread where the rock ought to be . 
Follow me ? I see what you mean . 
He tried to find her hand . 
What do you say ? I'll think of it . 
Well , think quick , my dear . 
Opportunity doesn't wait round in anybody's outside office . 
Maybe you don't trust me don't think I'll deliver the goods ? No. I think you're honest . 
I do what I say I'll do . 
That's why I've got on . 
That's why I'll keep on getting on . 
Let's drive to a hotel . 
She turned her head and looked at him for the first time since he began his discourse on making one's way in the world . 
Her look was calm , inquiring would have been chilling to a man of sensibility that is , of sensibility toward an unconquered woman . 
I want to give your people that order , and I want to help you . 
I want them to get the order . 
I don't care about the rest , she replied dully . 
Put it any way you like . 
Again he tried to embrace her . 
They drove the rest of the way to the upper end of the Park in silence . 
He ordered the driver to turn . 
He said to her Well , do you get the sack or does the house get the order ? She was silent . 
Shall I drive you home or shall we stop at Gabe's for a drink ? Could I have champagne ? said she . 
Anything you like if you choose right . 
I haven't any choice , said she . 
He laughed , put his arm around her , kissed her unresponsive but unresisting lips . 
You're right , you haven't , said he . 
It's a fine sign that you have the sense to see it . 
Oh , you'll get on . 
You don't let trifles stand in your way . 
III AT the lunch hour the next day Mary Hinkle knocked at the garret in Clinton Place . 
Getting no answer , she opened the door . 
At the table close to the window was Susan in a nightgown , her hair in disorder as if she had begun to arrange it and had stopped halfway . 
Her eyes turned listlessly in Mary's direction dull eyes , gray , heavily circled . 
You didn't answer , Miss Sackville . 
So I thought I'd come in and leave a note , explained Mary . 
Her glance was avoiding Susan's . 
Come for the dress and hat ? said Susan . 
And she indicated the undisturbed bed whereon hat and dress were carelessly flung . 
My , but it's hot in this room ! exclaimed Mary . 
You must move up to my place . 
There's a room and bath vacant only seven per . 
Susan seemed not to hear . 
She was looking dully at her hands upon the table before her . 
Mr. Jeffries sent me to ask you how you were . 
He was worried because you didn't come . 
With a change of voice , Mr. Gideon telephoned down the order a while ago . 
Mr. Jeffries says you are to keep the dress and hat . 
Take them away with you . 
Aren't you coming down this afternoon ? No , replied Susan . 
Quit ? cried Miss Hinkle . 
Her expression gradually shifted from astonishment to pleased understanding . 
Oh , I see ! You've got something better . 
No. But I'll find something . 
Mary studied the situation , using Susan's expressionless face as a guide . 
After a time she seemed to get from it a clew . 
With the air of friendly experience bent on aiding helpless inexperience she pushed aside the dress and made room for herself on the bed . 
Don't be a fool , Miss Sackville , said she . 
That'll give you time to look round and find something else . 
For pity's sake , don't turn yourself loose without a job . 
You got your place so easy that you think you can get one any old time . 
Believe me , you played in luck and luck don't come round often . 
I know what I'm talking about . 
So I say , don't be a fool ! I am a fool , said Susan . 
And don't waste any time about it , either . 
I can't go back , said Susan stolidly . 
Face who ? cried Mary . 
All the people down there are crazy about you now . 
You got the house a hundred thousand dollar order . 
You don't suppose anybody in business bothers about how an order's got do you ? It's the way I feel not the way they feel . 
As for the women down there of course , there's some that pretend they won't do that sort of thing . 
Look at 'em at their faces and figures and you'll see why they don't . 
Of course a girl keeps straight when there's nothing in not being straight leastways , unless she's a fool . 
But if a girl sees a chance to get on don't be a fool , Miss Sackville . 
Susan listened with a smile that barely disturbed the stolid calm of her features . 
I'm not going back , she said . 
Mary Hinkle was silenced by the quiet finality of her voice . 
Studying that delicate face , she felt , behind its pallid impassiveness , behind the refusal to return , a reason she could not comprehend . 
She dimly realized that she would respect it if she could understand it for she suspected it had its origin somewhere in Susan's refined ladylike nature . 
She herself possessed no such refinement of nerves or of whatever it was . 
She had been brought up in a loose family and in a loose neighborhood . 
She was in the habit of making all sorts of pretenses , because that was the custom , while being candid about such matters was regarded as bad form . 
She was not fooled by these pretenses in other girls , though they often did fool each other . 
In Susan , she instinctively felt , it was not pretense . 
It was something or other else it was a dangerous reality . 
She liked Susan in her intelligence and physical charm were the possibilities of getting far up in the world it seemed a pity that she was thus handicapped . 
Still , perhaps Susan would stumble upon some worth while man who , attempting to possess her without marriage and failing , would pay the heavy price . 
Still , Susan was unusually attractive , and luck sometimes did come a poor person's way sometimes . 
I'm overdue back , said Mary . 
You want me to tell 'em that ? Yes . 
You'll have hard work finding a job at anything like as much as ten per . 
I've got two trades , and I couldn't at either one . 
I don't expect to find it . 
Then what are you going to do ? Take what I can get until I've been made hard enough or strong enough or whatever it is to stop being a fool . 
This indication of latent good sense relieved Miss Hinkle . 
I'll tell 'em you may be down tomorrow . 
Think it over for another day . 
They'll have to get somebody else . 
And , as Miss Hinkle reached the threshold , Wait till I do the dress up . 
You'll take it for me ? Why send the things back ? urged Mary . 
God knows you earned 'em . 
Susan , standing now , looked down at the finery . 
I'll keep them , said she . 
With your looks they'd wear for a heap more . 
But keep 'em , anyhow . 
And I'll not tell Jeffries you've quit . 
It'll do no harm to hold your job open a day or so . 
As you like , said Susan , to end the discussion . 
After you've had something to eat , you'll feel different . 
And Miss Hinkle nodded brightly and departed . 
Susan resumed her seat at the bare wobbly little table , resumed her listless attitude . 
She did not move until Ellen came in , holding out a note and saying , A boy from your store brung this here . 
Thank you , said Susan , taking the note . 
In it she found a twenty dollar bill and a five . 
On the sheet of paper round it was scrawled Take the day off . 
In a dreary way this amused her . 
As if she cared whether or not life was kept in this worthless body of hers , in her tired heart , in her disgusted mind ! Then she dropped back into listlessness . 
When she was aroused again it was by Gideon , completely filling the small doorway . 
Hello , my dear ! cried he cheerfully . 
I'm feeling fine today , pursued Gideon , advancing a step and so bringing himself about halfway to the table . 
Had a couple of pick me ups and a fat breakfast . 
How are you ? I'm always well . 
Thought you seemed a little seedy . 
His shrewd sensual eyes were exploring the openings in her nightdress . 
You'll be mighty glad to get out of this hole . 
Don't see how you stand it . 
I'm a law abiding citizen but I must say I'd turn criminal before I'd put up with this . 
In the underworld from which Gideon had sprung the underworld where welters the overwhelming mass of the human race there are three main types . 
There are the hopeless and spiritless the mass who welter passively on , breeding and dying . 
The third is the criminal class . 
You don't ask me to sit down , dearie , he went on facetiously . 
But I'm not so mad that I won't do it . 
He took the seat Miss Hinkle had cleared on the bed . 
His glance wandered disgustedly from object to object in the crowded yet bare attic . 
He caught a whiff of the odor from across the hall from the fresh air shaft and hastily gave several puffs at his cigar to saturate his surroundings with its perfume . 
Susan acted as if she were alone in the room . 
She had not even drawn together her nightgown . 
I phoned your store about you , resumed Gideon . 
They said you hadn't showed up wouldn't till tomorrow . 
So I came round here and your landlady sent me up . 
I want to take you for a drive this afternoon . 
We can dine up to Claremont or farther , if you like . 
No , thanks , said Susan . 
Upty tupty ! cried Gideon . 
What's the lady so sour about ? I'm not sour . 
Then why won't you go ? I can't . 
But we'll have a chance to talk over what I'm going to do for you . 
You've kept your word , said Susan . 
Besides , I'd have given your house the order , anyhow . 
Susan's eyes suddenly lighted up . 
You would ? she cried . 
Well a part of it . 
Not so much , of course . 
But I never let pleasure interfere with business . 
Nobody that does ever gets very far . 
Her expression made him hasten to explain without being conscious why . 
I said part of the order , my dear . 
They owe to you about half of what they'll make off me . 
What's that money on the table ? Your commission ? Yes . 
Twenty five ? Um ! Gideon laughed . 
Well , I suppose it's as generous as I'd be , in the same circumstances . 
Encourage your employees , but don't swell head 'em that's the good rule . 
I've seen many a promising young chap ruined by a raise of pay . 
Now , about you and me . 
Gideon took a roll of bills from his trousers pocket , counted off five twenties , tossed them on the table . 
There ! One of the bills in falling touched Susan's hand . 
She jerked the hand away as if the bill had been afire . 
She took all five of them , folded them , held them out to him . 
The house has paid me , said she . 
That's honest , said he , nodding approvingly . 
But in your case it don't apply . 
These two , thus facing a practical situation , revealed an important , overlooked truth about human morals . 
Humanity divides broadly into three classes the arrived those who will never arrive and will never try those in a state of flux , attempting and either failing or succeeding . 
The arrived and the inert together preach and to a certain extent practice an idealistic system of morality that interferes with them in no way . 
Susan was , at that stage of her career , a candidate for membership in the struggling class . 
Her heart was set firmly against the unwritten , unspoken , even unwhispered code of practical morality which dominates the struggling class . 
But life had at least taught her the folly of intolerance . 
I feel that I've been paid , said she . 
I did it for the house because I owed it to them . 
Only for the house ? said he with insinuating tenderness . 
He took and pressed the fingers extended with the money in them . 
Only for the house , she repeated , a hard note in her voice . 
And her fingers slipped away , leaving the money in his hand . 
At least , I suppose it must have been for the house , she added , reflectively , talking to herself aloud . 
Why did I do it ? I don't know . 
They say one always has a reason for what one does . 
But I often can't find any reason for things I do that , for instance . 
I simply did it because it seemed to me not to matter much what I did with myself , and they wanted the order so badly . 
Then she happened to become conscious of his presence and to see a look of uneasiness , self complacence , as if he were thinking that he quite understood this puzzle . 
She disconcerted him with what vain men call a cruel snub . 
But whatever the reason , it certainly couldn't have been you , said she . 
Now , look here , Lorna , protested Gideon , the beginnings of anger in his tone . 
That's not the way to talk if you want to get on . 
To say nothing of what I can do for you , there's the matter of future orders . 
I order twice a year in big lots always . 
Oh ! Somebody else has given you something good eh ? That's why you're cocky . 
No. Then why've you quit ? I wish you could tell me . 
Gideon puzzled with this a moment , decided that it was beyond him and unimportant , anyhow . 
He blew out a cloud of smoke , stretched his legs and took up the main subject . 
I was about to say , I've got a place for you . 
I wouldn't grieve her for worlds . 
But I can't live without a little fun and Mrs. G. is a bit slow for me . 
Still , it's no use talking about having you out there . 
She ought to be able to understand that an active man needs two women . 
One for the quiet side of his nature , the other for the lively side . 
Sometimes I think she like a lot of wives wouldn't object if it wasn't that she was afraid the other lady would get me away altogether and she'd be left stranded . 
Not at all ! cried he . 
Don't you get any such notion in that lovely little head of yours , my dear . 
You women don't understand honor a man's sense of honor . 
He gave a glance of short disapproval . 
Her voice was not to his liking . 
Let's drop Mrs. G. out of this , said he . 
Before it he slowly reddened , and his eyes reluctantly shifted . 
He had roused her from listlessness , from indifference . 
The poisons in her blood were burned up by the fresh , swiftly flowing currents set in motion by his words , by the helpfulness of his expression , of his presence . 
What are you smiling at me that way for ? demanded he in a tone of extreme irritation . 
So you look on me as your mistress ? And never in all her life had her eyes been so gray the gray of cruelest irony . 
Now what's the use discussing those things ? You know the world . 
Susan made closer and more secure the large loose coil of her hair , rose and leaned against the table . 
I'm not one of those respectable women , like your Mrs. G. , who belong to men . 
And I'm not one of the other kind who also throw in their souls with their bodies for good measure . 
Do you think you had me ? She laughed with maddening gentle mockery , went on I don't hate you . 
I don't despise you even . 
But the sight of you makes me sick . 
So I want to forget you as soon as I can and that will be soon after you get out of my sight . 
Her blazing eyes startled him . 
Her voice , not lifted above its usual quiet tones , enraged him . 
You you ! he cried . 
You must be crazy , to talk to me like that ! She nodded . 
Yes crazy , said she with the same quiet intensity . 
For I know what kind of a beast you are a clean , good natured beast , but still a beast . 
And how could you understand ? He had got upon his feet . 
He looked as if he were going to strike her . 
She made a slight gesture toward the door . 
He felt at a hopeless disadvantage with her with this woman who did not raise her voice , did not need to raise it to express the uttermost of any passion . 
His jagged teeth gleamed through his mustache his shrewd little eyes snapped like an angry rat's . 
He fumbled about through the steam of his insane rage for adequate insults in vain . 
He rushed from the room and bolted downstairs . 
Within an hour Susan was out , looking for work . 
There could be no turning back now . 
Until she went with Gideon it had been as if her dead were still unburied and in the house . 
Now Never again could she even indulge in dreams of going to Rod . 
That part of her life was finished with all the finality of the closed grave . 
But the same sort of grief as when a loved one , after a long and painful illness , finds relief in death . 
Her love for Rod had been stricken of a mortal illness the night of their arrival in New York . 
After lingering for a year between life and death , after a long death agony , it had expired . 
For better or for worse she was free . 
She was ready to begin her career . 
IV AFTER a few days , when she was viewing her situation in a calmer , more normal mood with the practical feminine eye , she regretted that she had refused Gideon's money . 
She was proud of that within herself which had impelled and compelled her to refuse it but she wished she had it . 
It is one of the familiar curiosities of human inconsistency which is at bottom so completely consistent , that she did not regret having refused his far more valuable offer to aid her . 
She did not regret even during those few next days of disheartening search for work . 
We often read how purpose can be so powerful that it compels . 
And that sort of purpose cannot compel . 
Our civilization overflows with charity which is simply willingness to hand back to labor as generous gracious alms a small part of the loot from the just wages of labor . 
But of real help just wages for honest labor there is little , for real help would disarrange the system , would abolish the upper classes . 
She had some faint hopes in the direction of millinery and dressmaking , the things for which she felt she had distinct talent . 
Day after day , from the first moment of the industrial day until its end , she hunted wearily , yet unweariedly with resolve living on after the death of hope . 
There was work , plenty of it . 
But not at decent wages , and not leading to wages that could be earned without viciously wronging those under her in an executive position . 
But even in those cases the prospect of promotion was vague and remote , with illness and failing strength and poor food , worse clothing and lodgings , as certainties straightway . 
At some places she was refused with the first glance at her . 
No good looking girls wanted even though they behaved themselves and attracted customers , the customers lost sight of matters of merchandise in the all absorbing matter of sex . 
In offices a good looking girl upset discipline , caused the place to degenerate into a deer haunt in the mating season . 
No place did she find offering more than four dollars a week , except where the dress requirements made the nominally higher wages even less . 
Everywhere women's wages were based upon the assumption that women either lived at home or made the principal part of their incomes by prostitution , disguised or frank . 
In fact , all wages even the wages of men except in a few trades were too small for an independent support . 
There had to be a family and the whole family had to work and even then the joint income was not enough for decency . 
She had no family or friends to help her at least , no friends except those as poor as herself , and she could not commit the crime of adding to their miseries . 
She had less than ten dollars left . 
She must get to work at once and what she earned must supply her with all . 
A note came from Jeffries a curt request that she call curt to disguise the eagerness to have her back . 
She did not even debate the matter . 
It was one of her significant qualities that she never had the inclination , apparently lacked the power , to turn back once she had turned away . 
Mary Hinkle came , urged her . 
Susan listened in silence , merely shook her head for answer , changed the subject . 
In the entrance to the lofts of a tall Broadway building she saw a placard Experienced hands at fancy ready to wear hat trimming wanted . 
She climbed three steep flights and was in a large , low ceilinged room where perhaps seventy five girls were at work . 
She paused in the doorway long enough to observe the kind of work a purely mechanical process of stitching a few trimmings in exactly the same way upon a cheap hat frame . 
Experienced ? asked the young man . 
I can do what those girls are doing . 
With intelligent eyes he glanced at her face , then let his glance rove contemptuously over the room full of workers . 
I should hope so , said he . 
Want to try it ? When may I go to work ? Right away . 
Susan signed her name to what she saw at a glance was some sort of contract . 
She knew it contained nothing to her advantage , much to her disadvantage . 
But she did not care . 
She had to have work something , anything that would stop the waste of her slender capital . 
She was soon able to calculate roughly what she could make in six days . 
Except a very young girl here and there all the women had poor or bad skins . 
And Susan was not made disdainful by the odor which is far worse than that of any lower animal , however dirty , because the human animal must wear clothing . 
She had lived in wretchedness in a tenement she knew that this odor was an inevitable part of tenement life when one has neither the time nor the means to be clean . 
If I stay here , thought she , in a few weeks I shall be like these others . 
No matter how hard I may fight , I'll be dragged down . 
It took no great amount of vanity for her to realize that she was in every way the superior of all those around her in every way except one . 
She ate a roll she bought from a pushcart man , the woman munched an apple with her few remnants of teeth . 
Most of the girls is always kicking , said the woman . 
I make my four to five per , continued the woman . 
And I've got only myself . 
Thank God , I was never fool enough to marry . 
It's marrying that drags us poor people down and makes us miserable . 
Some says to me , Ain't you lonesome ? And I says to them , says I , Why , I'm used to being alone . 
I don't want anything else . 
If they was all like me , they'd not be fightin' and drinkin' and makin' bad worse . 
The bosses always likes to give me work . 
They say I'm a model worker , and I'm proud to say they're right . 
I'm mighty grateful to the bosses that provide for the like of us . 
What'd we do without 'em ? That's what I 'd like to know . 
She had pitied this woman because she could never hope to experience any of the great joys of life . 
What a waste of pity , she now thought . 
She had overlooked the joy of joys delusions . 
This woman was secure for life against unhappiness . 
A few days , and Susan was herself regarded as a model worker . 
She turned out hats so rapidly that the forewoman , urged on by Mr. Himberg , the proprietor , began to nag at the other girls . 
And presently a notice of general reduction to thirty five cents a dozen was posted . 
There had been a union it had won a strike two years before and then had been broken up by shrewd employing of detectives who had got themselves elected officers . 
A few of the youngest and most spirited girls those from families containing several workers indignantly quit . 
A few others murmured , but stayed on . 
The mass dumbly accepted the extra twist in the screw of the mighty press that was slowly squeezing them to death . 
Neither to them nor to Susan herself did it happen to occur that she was the cause of the general increase of hardship and misery . 
However , to have blamed her would have been as foolish and as unjust as to blame any other individual . 
The system ordained it all . 
Oppression and oppressed were both equally its helpless instruments . 
Susan soon discovered that she had miscalculated her earning power . 
She had been deceived by her swiftness in the first days , before the monotony of her task had begun to wear her down . 
Her first week's earnings were only four dollars and thirty cents . 
This in her freshness , and in the busiest season when wages were at the highest point . 
In the room next hers the same , perhaps a little dingier lived a man . 
He was the most industrious and , in his small way , the most resourceful of men . 
He was insurance agent , toilet soap agent , piano tuner , giver of piano lessons , seller of pianos and of music on commission . 
He worked fourteen and sixteen hours a day . 
He made nominally about twelve to fifteen a week . 
Barely enough to keep body and soul together . 
A woman , she decided , can't even earn a decent living that way unless she has the money to make the right sort of a start . 
To him that hath shall be given from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath . 
Gideon was my chance and I threw it away . 
Still , she did not regret . 
Of all the horrors the most repellent seemed to her to be dependence upon some one man who could take it away at his whim . 
She disregarded the advice of the other girls and made the rounds of the religious and charitable homes for working girls . 
But she found all the homes full , with long waiting lists , filled for the most part , so the working girls said , with professional objects of charity . 
Charity is so trifling a force that it can , and should be , disregarded . 
It serves no good useful service . 
It enables comfortable people to delude themselves that all that can be done is being done to mitigate the misfortunes which the poor bring upon themselves . 
It obscures the truth that modern civilization has been perverted into a huge manufacturing of decrepitude and disease , of poverty and prostitution . 
At two dollars a week , double what her income justified she rented a room in a tenement flat in Bleecker street . 
It was a closet of a room whose thin , dirt adorned walls were no protection against sound or vermin , not giving even privacy from prying eyes . 
The young Jew with the nose so impossible that it elevated his countenance from commonplace ugliness to weird distinction had taken a friendly fancy to her . 
He was Julius Bam , nephew of the proprietor . 
In her third week he offered her the forewoman's place . 
You've got a few brains in your head , said he . 
Take the job and you'll push up . 
We'll start you at five per . 
Susan thanked him but declined . 
What's the use of my taking a job I couldn't keep more than a day or two ? explained she . 
I haven't it in me to boss people . 
Then you've got to get it , or you're done for , said he . 
Nobody ever gets anywhere until he's making others work for him . 
It was the advice she had got from Matson , the paper box manufacturer in Cincinnati . 
It was the lesson she found in all prosperity on every hand . 
She could scarcely conceal her repulsion for their dirty bodies , their stained and rotting clothing saturated with stale sweat , their coarse flesh reeking coarse food smells . 
She could not listen to their conversation , so vulgar , so inane . 
Yet she felt herself for the time one of them , and her heart bled for them . 
As she was turning in some work , Miss Tuohy said abruptly You don't belong here . 
You ought to go back . 
Susan started , and her heart beat wildly . 
She was going to lose her job ! The forelady saw , and instantly understood . 
I don't mean that , she said . 
You can stay as long as you like as long as your health lasts . 
But isn't there somebody somewhere anybody you can go to and ask them to help you out of this ? No there's no one , said she . 
That can't be true , insisted the forelady . 
Everybody has somebody or can get somebody that is , anyone who looks like you . 
I wouldn't suggest such a thing to a fool . 
But you could keep your head . 
There isn't any other way , and you might as well make up your mind to it . 
To confide is one of the all but universal longings perhaps needs of human nature . 
Susan's honest , sympathetic eyes , her look and her habit of reticence , were always attracting confidences from such unexpected sources as hard , forbidding Miss Tuohy . 
Susan was not much surprised when Miss Tuohy went on to say I was spoiled when I was still a kid by getting to know well a man who was above my class . 
I had tastes that way , and he appealed to them . 
After him I couldn't marry the sort of man that wanted me . 
Then my looks went like a flash it often happens that way with us Irish girls . 
But I can get on . 
I know how to deal with these people and you never could learn . 
You'd treat 'em like ladies and they'd treat you as easy fruit . 
Yes , I get along all right , and I'm happy away from here . 
Susan's sympathetic glance of inquiry gave the necessary encouragement . 
It's a baby , Miss Tuohy explained and Susan knew it was for the baby's sake that this good heart had hardened itself to the dirty work of forelady . 
Her eyes shifted as she said , A child of my sister's dead in Ireland . 
How I do love that baby They were interrupted and it so happened that the confidence was never resumed and finished . 
But Miss Tuohy had made her point with Susan had set her to thinking less indefinitely . 
I must take hold ! Susan kept saying to herself . 
The phrase was always echoing in her brain . 
But how ? how ? And to that question she could find no answer . 
Susan read the columns diligently . 
But after a few weeks she ceased from reading . 
Why ? Because she answered the advertisements , scores of them , more than a hundred , before she saw through the trick and gave up . 
Did you ever get anything good , or hear of anybody that did ? Oh , my , no , replied Lany with a laugh . 
I read for the same reason that all the rest do . 
It's a kind of dope . 
You read and then you dream about the places how grand they are and how well off you'll be . 
But nobody'd be fool enough to answer one of 'em unless she was out of a job and had to get another and didn't care how rotten it was . 
No , it's just dope like buyin' policy numbers or lottery tickets . 
You know you won't git a prize , but you have a lot of fun dreaming about it . 
As Susan walked up and down at the lunch hour , she talked with workers , both men and women , in all sorts of employment . 
Perhaps envy twisted somewhat these tales of rare occasional successes told by the workers to each other . 
But certain it was that , wherever she had the opportunity to see for herself , success came only by hardness of heart , by tricks and cheats . 
Yet none so unhappy as she not even the worse off . 
In fact , the worse off as the better off were not so deeply wretched . 
Because they had never in all their lives known the decencies of life clean lodgings , clean clothing , food fit to eat , leisure and the means of enjoying leisure . 
And Susan had known all these things . 
One lunch hour an apostle of discontent preaching some kind of politics or other held forth on the corner above the shop . 
She had heard only a few words when she was incensed to the depths of her heart against him . 
No doubt he fancied that he was in some way doing good . 
But such a thing would be impossible . 
So evidently the presence of riches did not help poverty but seemed to increase it . 
No , the disease was miserable , thought Susan . 
And to escape from that hideous tyranny , you must be hard , you must trample , you must rob , you must cease to be human . 
The apostle of discontent insisted that the law could be changed , that the tyranny could be abolished . 
She listened , but he did not convince her . 
He sounded vague and dreamy as fantastically false in his new way as she had found the Sunday school books to be . 
She continued to pay out a cent each day for the newspaper . 
She no longer bothered with the want ads . 
Pipe dreaming did not attract her she was too fiercely bent upon escape , actual escape , to waste time in dreaming of ways of escape that she never could realize . 
She found every day news of great doings , of wonderful rises , of rich rewards for industry and thrift , of abounding prosperity and of opportunity fairly forcing itself into acceptance . 
But all this applied only to the few so strangely and so luckily chosen , while the mass was rejected . 
For that mass , from earliest childhood until death , there was only toil in squalor squalid food , squalid clothing , squalid shelter . 
Must take hold ! her mind cried incessantly to her shrinking heart . 
Look at my toil bent form and toil wrecked hands . 
Look at my masses of wrinkles , at my rags , at my leaky and rotten shoes . 
Think of my aloneness not a friend feared and cast off by my relatives because they are afraid they will have to give me food and lodgings . 
Not one in a hundred thousand escape my fate except by death . 
Somehow anyhow I must take hold , cried Susan to her swooning heart . 
When her capital had dwindled to three dollars Mrs. Tucker appeared . 
Her face was so beaming bright that Susan , despite her being clad in garments on which a pawnshop would advance nothing , fancied she had come with good news . 
Now that I'm rid of that there house , said she , I'll begin to perk up . 
I ain't got nothing left to worry me . 
I'm ready for whatever blessings the dear Master'll provide . 
My pastor tells me I'm the finest example of Christian fortitude he ever Saw . 
But and Mrs. Tucker spoke with genuine modesty I tell him I don't deserve no credit for leaning on the Lord . 
If I can trust Him in death , why not in life ? You've got a place ? The church has Bless you , no , cried Mrs. Tucker . 
Would I burden 'em with myself , when there's so many that has to be looked after ? No , I go direct to the Lord . 
What are you going to do ? What place have you got ? None as yet . 
But He'll provide something something better'n I deserve . 
Susan had to turn away , to hide her pity and her disappointment . 
Not only was she not to be helped , but also she must help another . 
You might get a job at the hat factory , said she . 
I knew it ! she cried . 
Don't you see how He looks after me ? Susan persuaded Miss Tuohy to take Mrs. Tucker on . 
She could truthfully recommend the old woman as a hard worker . 
They moved into a room in a tenement in South Fifth Avenue . 
Susan read in the paper about a model tenement and went to try for what was described as real luxury in comfort and cleanliness . 
She found that sort of tenements filled with middle class families on their way down in the world and making their last stand against rising rents and rising prices . 
The model tenement rents were far , far beyond her ability to pay . 
She might as well think of moving to the Waldorf . 
They washed their underclothing at night , slept while it was drying . 
They did their own cooking . 
It was no longer possible for Susan to buy quality and content herself with small quantity . 
However small the quantity of food she could get along on , it must be of poor quality for good quality was beyond her means . 
It maddened her to see the better class of working girls . 
She knew these girls were either supporting themselves in part by prostitution or were held up by their families , by the pooling of the earnings of several persons . 
Left to themselves , to their own earnings at work , they would be no better off than she , or at best so little better off that the difference was unimportant . 
To have less than the fifteen dollars absolutely necessary for decent surroundings , decent clothing , decent food that meant one was drowning . 
She protested that she could sleep on the floor , that she had done so a large part of her life that she preferred it to most beds . 
But Susan made her up a kind of bed in the corner . 
They would not let her pay anything . 
She had rheumatism horribly , some kind of lung trouble , and the almost universal and repulsive catarrh that preys upon working people . 
Her hair had dwindled to a meager wisp . 
This she wound into a hard little knot and fastened with an imitation tortoise shell comb , huge , high , and broken , set with large pieces of glass cut like diamonds . 
Her teeth were all gone and her cheeks almost met in her mouth . 
One day , when Mrs. Tucker and Mrs. Reardon were exchanging eulogies upon the goodness of God to them , Susan shocked them by harshly ordering them to be silent . 
If God hears you , she said , He'll think you're mocking Him . 
Anyhow , I can't stand any more of it . 
Hereafter do your talking of that kind when I'm not here . 
Another day Mrs. Reardon told about her sister . 
The sister had worked in a factory where some sort of poison that had a rotting effect on the human body was used in the manufacture . 
Like a series of others the sister caught the disease . 
Until that day Susan had been about as unobservant of the obvious things as is the rest of the race . 
On that day she for the first time noticed the crowd in the street , with mind alert to signs of the ravages of accident and disease . 
Hardly a sound body , hardly one that was not piteously and hideously marked . 
When she returned and she did not stay out long Mrs. Tucker was alone . 
Said she Mrs. Reardon says the rotten jaw was sent on her sister as a punishment for marrying a Protestant , she being a Catholic . 
How ignorant some people is ! Of course , the good Lord sent the judgment on her for being a Catholic at all . 
Mrs. Tucker , said Susan , did you ever hear of Nero ? He burned up Rome and he burned up the Christian martyrs , said Mrs. Tucker . 
I had a good schooling . 
Besides , sermons is highly educating . 
Mrs. Tucker would have fled if she could have afforded it . 
As it was all she ventured was a sigh and lips moving in prayer . 
On a Friday in late October , at the lunch hour , Susan was walking up and down the sunny side of Broadway . 
She was wearing her summer dress still old and dingy but clean . 
Her shoes were much scuffed , were even slightly down at the heel her sailor hat would have looked only the worse had it had a fresh ribbon on its crown . 
This first hint of winter had stung her fast numbing faculties into unusual activity . 
This wind of Broadway this first warning of winter it was hissing in her ears Take hold ! Winter is coming ! Take hold ! Summer and winter fiery heat and brutal cold . 
To shelter herself for a moment she paused at a spot that happened to be protected to the south by a projecting sidewalk sign . 
She was facing , with only a tantalizing sheet of glass between , a display of winter underclothes on wax figures . 
To show them off more effectively the sides and the back of the window were mirrors . 
Susan's gaze traveled past the figures to a person she saw standing at full length before her . 
Who is that pale , stooped girl ? she thought . 
How dreary and sad she looks ! How hard she is fighting to make her clothes look decent , when they aren't ! She must be something like me only much worse off . 
And then she realized that she was gazing at her own image , was pitying her own self . 
She was having a clear look at herself for the first time in three months . 
She shrank in horror , yet gazed on fascinated . 
Now Those pale , pale lips ! They seemed to form a sort of climax of tragedy to the melancholy of her face . 
She gazed on and on . 
Admiring yourself ? she said laughing . 
Well , I don't blame you . 
Susan at first thought Rosa was mocking her . 
But the tone and expression were sincere . 
It won't last long , Rosa went on . 
I wasn't so bad myself when I quit the high school and took a job because father lost his business and his health . 
He got in the way of one of those trusts . 
So of course they handed it to him good and hard . 
But he wasn't a squealer . 
He always said they'd done only what he'd been doing himself if he'd had the chance . 
I always think of what papa used to say when I hear people carrying on about how wicked this or that somebody else is . 
Are you going to stay on at this life ? asked Susan , still looking at her own image . 
What else is there ? . 
We'll get married as soon as he has a raise to twelve per . 
But I'll not be any better off . 
My beau's too stupid ever to make much . 
If you see me ten years from now I'll probably be a fat , sloppy old thing , warming a window sill or slouching about in dirty rags . 
They say things are better than they used to be , and I guess they are . 
But not enough better to help me any . 
Perhaps my children if I'm fool enough to have any perhaps they'll get a chance . 
But I wouldn't gamble on it . 
Susan was still looking at her rags at her pale lips was avoiding meeting her own eyes . 
Why not try the streets ? Nothing in it , said Rosa , practically . 
I did try it for a while and quit . 
Lots of the girls do , and only the fools stay at it . 
Once in a while there's a girl who's lucky and gets a lover that's kind to her or a husband that can make good . 
For one that wins out , a thousand lose . 
It's something else besides luck . 
The trouble is a girl loses her head falls in love supports a man takes to drink don't look out for her health wastes her money . 
Still where's the girl with head enough to get on where there's so many temptations ? But there's no chance at all , keeping straight , you say . 
The street girls of our class , I mean don't average as much as we do . 
And it's an awful business in winter . 
And they spend so much time in station houses and over on the Island . 
And , gosh ! how the men do treat them ! You haven't any idea . 
You wouldn't believe the horrible things the girls have to do to earn their money a quarter or half a dollar and maybe the men don't pay them even that . 
A girl tries to get her money in advance , but often she doesn't . 
And as they have to dress better than we do , and live where they can clean up a little , they 'most starve . 
Oh , that life's hell . 
Susan had turned away from her image , was looking at Rosa . 
As for the fast houses Rosa shuddered I was in one for a week . 
I ran away it was the only way I could escape . 
I'd never tell any human being what I went through in that house . 
Never ! She watched Susan's fine sympathetic face , and in a burst of confidence said One night the landlady sent me up with seventeen men . 
And she kept the seventeen dollars I made , and took away from me half a dollar one drunken longshoreman gave me as a present . 
She said I owed it for board and clothes . 
In those houses , high and low , the girls always owes the madam . 
They haven't a stitch of their own to their backs . 
Finally Susan said Do you ever think of killing yourself ? I thought I would , replied the other girl . 
But I guess I wouldn't have . 
Everybody knows there's no hope , yet they keep on hopin' . 
And I've got pretty good health yet , and once in a while I have some fun . 
You ought to go to dances and drink . 
You wouldn't be blue all the time , then . 
If it wasn't for the sun , said Susan . 
The sun ? inquired Rosa . 
Where I came from , explained Susan , it rained a great deal , and the sky was covered so much of the time . 
But here in New York there is so much sun . 
I get desperate then out comes the sun , and I say to myself , Well , I guess I can go on a while longer , with the sun to help me . 
I hadn't thought of it , said Rosa , but the sun is a help . 
That indefatigable New York sun ! It was like Susan's own courage . 
For weeks Susan had eaten almost nothing . 
During her previous sojourn in the slums the slums of Cincinnati , though they were not classed as slums the food had seemed revolting . 
But she was less discriminating then . 
The only food she could afford now the food that is the best obtainable for a majority of the inhabitants of any city was simply impossible for her . 
She ate only when she could endure no longer . 
This starvation no doubt saved her from illness but at the same time it drained her strength . 
Her vitality had been going down , a little each day lower and lower . 
The poverty which had infuriated her at first was now acting upon her like a soothing poison . 
The reason she had not risen to revolt was this slow and subtle poison that explains the inertia of the tenement poor from babyhood . 
To be spirited one must have health or a nervous system diseased in some of the ways that cause constant irritation . 
The disease called poverty is not an irritant , but an anesthetic . 
Perhaps it was the wind yes , it must have been the wind with its threat of winter that roused her sluggish blood , that whipped thought into action . 
Anything anything would be right , if it promised escape . 
Right wrong ! Hypocritical words for comfortable people ! That Friday night , after her supper of half cooked corn meal and tea , she went instantly to work at washing out clothes . 
Mrs. Tucker spent the evening gossiping with the janitress , came in about midnight . 
She loved to tell these tales with all the harrowing particulars and to find in each some evidence of the goodness of God to herself . 
Often Susan could let her run on and on without listening . 
She resisted the impulse to bid her be silent , left the room and stood at the hall window . 
When she returned Mrs. Tucker was in bed , was snoring in a tranquillity that was the reverse of contagious . 
With her habitual cheerfulness she had adapted herself to her changed condition without fretting . 
But for that matter only exhaustion could have kept her asleep in that vermin infested hole . 
While Mrs. Tucker snored , Susan worked on , getting every piece of at all fit clothing in her meager wardrobe into the best possible condition . 
At dawn Mrs. Tucker awoke with a snort and a start . 
She rubbed her eyes with her dirty and twisted and wrinkled fingers the nails were worn and broken , turned up as if warped at the edges , blackened with dirt and bruisings . 
Why , are you up already ? she said to Susan . 
I've not been to bed , replied the girl . 
The woman stretched herself , sat up , thrust her thick , stockinged legs over the side of the bed . 
She slept in all her clothing but her skirt , waist , and shoes . 
She kneeled down upon the bare , sprung , and slanting floor , said a prayer , arose with a beaming face . 
It's nice and warm in the room . 
How I do dread the winter , the cold weather though no doubt we'll make out all right ! Everything always does turn out well for me . 
The Lord takes care of me . 
I must make me a cup of tea . 
I've made it , said Susan . 
The tea was frightful stuff not tea at all , but cheap adulterants colored poisonously . 
Wonder why Mrs. Reardon don't come ? said Mrs. Tucker . 
Mrs. Reardon had as her only work a one night job at scrubbing . 
She ought to have come an hour ago . 
Her rheumatism was bad when she started , said Susan . 
I guess she worked slow . 
When Mrs. Tucker had finished her second cup she put on her shoes , overskirt and waist , made a few passes at her hair . 
She was ready to go to work . 
Susan looked at her , murmured An honest , God fearing working woman ! Huh ? said Mrs. Tucker . 
Nothing , replied Susan who would not have permitted her to hear . 
It would be cruel to put such ideas before one doomed beyond hope . 
Susan was utterly tired , but even the strong craving for a stimulant could not draw that tea past her lips . 
She ate a piece of dry bread , washed her face , neck , and hands . 
It was time to start for the factory . 
That day Saturday was a half holiday . 
Susan drew her week's earnings four dollars and ten cents and came home . 
Mrs. Tucker , who had drawn thanks to the Lord three dollars and a quarter , was with her . 
The janitress halted them as they passed and told them that Mrs. Reardon was dead . 
She looked like another scrubwoman , living down the street , who was known always to carry a sum of money in her dress pocket , the banks being untrustworthy . 
Mrs. Reardon , passing along in the dusk of the early morning , had been hit on the head with a blackjack . 
The one blow had killed her . 
Violence , tragedy of all kinds , were too commonplace in that neighborhood to cause more than a slight ripple . 
An old scrubwoman would have had to die in some peculiarly awful way to receive the flattery of agitating an agitated street . 
Mrs. Reardon had died what was really almost a natural death . 
So the faint disturbance of the terrors of life had long since disappeared . 
The body was at the Morgue , of course . 
We'll go up , right away , said Mrs. Tucker . 
I've something to do that can't be put , off , replied Susan . 
I don't like for anyone as young as you to be so hard , reproached Mrs. Tucker . 
Is it hard , said Susan , to see that death isn't nearly so terrible as life ? She's safe and at peace . 
Mrs. Tucker , eager for an emotional and religious opportunity , hastened away . 
Susan went at her wardrobe ironing , darning , fixing buttonholes , hooks and eyes . 
It had rained all the night before the second heavy rain in two months . 
A few golden strays found their way into that cavelike room and had been helping her wonderfully . 
She bathed herself and scrubbed herself from head to foot . 
She manicured her nails , got her hands and feet into fairly good condition . 
She put on her best underclothes , her one remaining pair of undarned stockings , the pair of ties she had been saving against an emergency . 
And once more she had the charm upon which she most prided herself the charm of an attractive look about the feet and ankles . 
She was well pleased and justly so with the result . 
The trimmed hat might well have cost ten or fifteen dollars for the largest part of the price of a woman's hat is usually the taste of the arrangement of the trimming . 
By this time her hair was dry . 
She did it up with a care she had not had time to give it in many a week . 
She put on the dark blue serge skirt of the between seasons dress she had brought with her from Forty fourth Street she had not worn it at all . 
With the feeble aid of the mirror that distorted her image into grotesqueness , she put on her hat with the care that important detail of a woman's toilet always deserves . 
She completed her toilet with her one good and unworn blouse plain white , the yoke gracefully pointed and with a blue neck piece she had been saving . 
She made a bundle of all her clothing that was fit for anything including the unworn batiste dress Jeffries and Jonas had given her . 
And into it she put the pistol she had brought away from Forty fourth Street . 
She made a separate bundle of the Jeffries and Jonas hat with its valuable plumes . 
With the two bundles she descended and went to a pawnshop in Houston Street , to which she had made several visits . 
A dirty looking man with a short beard fluffy and thick like a yellow hen's tail lurked behind the counter in the dark little shop . 
She put her bundles on the counter , opened them . 
How much can I get for these things ? she asked . 
The man examined every piece minutely . 
There's really nothing here but the summer dress and the hat , said he . 
And they're out of style . 
I can't give you more than four dollars for the lot and one for the pistol which is good but old style now . 
How'll you have it ? Susan folded the things and tied up the bundles . 
Sorry to have troubled you , she said , taking one in either hand . 
How much did you expect to get , lady ? asked the pawnbroker . 
He laughed , turned toward the back of the shop . 
As she reached the door he called from his desk at which he seemed about to seat himself , I might squeeze you out ten dollars . 
The plumes on the hat will sell for thirty dollars , said Susan . 
You know as well as I do that ostrich feathers have gone up . 
I hate to see a customer go away unsatisfied , said he . 
I'll give you twenty dollars . 
Not a cent less than twenty five . 
At the next place I'll ask thirty and get it . 
I never can stand out against a lady . 
Susan put it on the counter again . 
Said she I don't blame you for trying to do me . 
You're right to try to buy your way out of hell . 
The pawnbroker reflected , could not understand this subtlety , went behind his counter . 
He produced a key from his pocket , unlocked a drawer underneath and took out a large tin box . 
With another key from another pocket he unlocked this , threw back the lid revealing a disorder of papers . 
From the depths he fished a paper bag . 
This contained a roll of bills . 
He gave Susan a twenty and a five , both covered with dirt so thickly that she could scarcely make out the denominations . 
You'll have to give me cleaner money than this , said she . 
You are a fine lady , grumbled he . 
But he found cleaner bills . 
She turned to her room . 
At sight of her Mrs. Tucker burst out laughing with delight . 
My , but you do look like old times ! cried she . 
How neat and tasty you are ! I suppose it's no need to ask if you're going to church ? No , said Susan . 
I've got nothing to give , and I don't beg . 
Well , I ain't going there myself , lately somehow . 
They got so they weren't very cordial or maybe it was me thinking that way because I wasn't dressed up like . 
Still I do wish you was more religious . 
But you'll come to it , for you're naturally a good girl . 
And when you do , the Lord'll give you a more contented heart . 
I never knew anybody , especially a young person , that took things so quiet . 
It can't be you're going to a dance ? No , said Susan . 
I'm going to leave go back uptown . 
Mrs. Tucker plumped down upon the bed . 
Leave for good ? she gasped . 
I've got Nelly Lemayer to take my place here , if you want her , said Susan . 
Here is my share of the rent for next week and half a dollar for the extra gas I've burned last night and today . 
And Mrs. Reardon gone , too ! sobbed Mrs. Tucker , suddenly remembering the old scrubwoman whom both had forgotten . 
And up to that there Morgue they wouldn't let me see her except where the light was so poor that I couldn't rightly swear it was her . 
How brutal everybody is to the poor ! If they didn't have the Lord , what would become of them ! And you leaving me all alone ! The sobs rose into hysteria . 
She had seen again and again how faint the breeze that would throw those shallow waters into commotion and how soon they were tranquil again . 
It was by observing Mrs. Tucker that she first learned an important unrecognized truth about human nature that amiable , easily sympathetic and habitually good humored people are invariably hard of heart . 
Mrs. Tucker , fallen into the habits of their surroundings , was for her simply part of them . 
And she was glad she was leaving them forever , she hoped . 
Christian , fleeing the City of Destruction , had no sterner mandate to flight than her instinct was suddenly urging upon her . 
When Mrs. Tucker saw that her tears were not appreciated , she decided that they were unnecessary . 
She dried her eyes and said Anyhow , I reckon Mrs. Reardon's taking off was a mercy . 
She's better dead , said Susan . 
She had abhorred the old woman , even as she pitied and sheltered her . 
She had a way of fawning and cringing and flattering no doubt in well meaning attempt to show gratitude but it was unendurable to Susan . 
And now that she was dead and gone , there was no call for further pretenses . 
You ain't going right away ? said Mrs. Tucker . 
You ought to stay to supper . 
Supper ! That revolting food ! No , I must go right away , replied Susan . 
Well , you'll come to see me . 
And maybe you'll be back with us . 
You might go farther and do worse . 
On my way from the morgue I dropped in to see a lady friend on the East Side . 
I guess the good Lord has abandoned the East Side , there being nothing there but Catholics and Jews , and no true religion . 
It's dreadful the way things is over there the girls are taking to the streets in droves . 
And no money in it , at that . 
And food and clothing prices going up and up . 
Meat and vegetables two and three times what they was a few years ago . 
And rents ! Mrs. Tucker threw up her hands . 
I must be going , said Susan . 
She put out her hand , but Mrs. Tucker insisted on kissing her . 
She crossed Washington Square , beautiful in the soft evening light , and went up Fifth Avenue . 
It was like coming out of the dank darkness of Dismal Swamp into smiling fields with a pure , star spangled sky above . 
She was free free ! It might be for but a moment still it was freedom , infinitely sweet because of past slavery and because of the fear of slavery closing in again . 
She had abandoned the old toilet articles . 
She had only the clothes she was wearing , the thirty one dollars divided between her stockings , and the two dollar bill stuffed into the palm of her left glove . 
She had walked but a few hundred feet . 
She had advanced into a region no more prosperous to the eye than that she had been working in every day . 
Yet she had changed her world because she had changed her point of view . 
The strata that form society lie in roughly parallel lines one above the other . 
The flow of all forms of the currents of life is horizontally along these strata , never vertically from one stratum to another . 
These strata , lying apparently in contact , one upon another , are in fact abysmally separated . 
There is not and in the nature of things never can be any genuine human sympathy between any two strata . 
We sympathize in our own stratum , or class toward other strata other classes our attitude is necessarily a looking up or a looking down . 
At the corner of Fourteenth Street there was a shop with large mirrors in the show windows . 
She paused to examine herself . 
She found she had no reason to be disturbed about her appearance . 
Why did I stay there so long ? she demanded of herself . 
Then , How have I suddenly got the courage to leave ? She had no answer to either question . 
Nor did she care for an answer . 
She was not even especially interested in what was about to happen to her . 
The moment she found herself above Twenty third Street and in the old familiar surroundings , she felt an irresistible longing to hear about Rod Spenser . 
She went into the Hoffman House and at the public telephone got the Herald office . 
Is Mr. Drumley there ? No , was the reply . 
Did Mr. Spenser go with him ? Mr. Spenser isn't here hasn't been for a long time . 
Who is this ? Thank you , said Susan , hanging up the receiver . 
She drew a deep breath of relief . 
She left the hotel by the women's entrance in Broadway . 
The sky was clear a typical New York sky with air that intoxicated blowing from it air of the sea air of the depths of heaven . 
A crescent moon glittered above the Diana on the Garden tower . 
The air was sharp was the ocean air of New York at its delicious best . 
She paused at the corner , and gazed up brilliantly lighted Broadway . 
Now ! she said half aloud and , like an expert swimmer adventuring the rapids , she advanced into the swift moving crowd of the highway of New York's gayety . 
V AT the corner of Twenty sixth Street a man put himself squarely across her path . 
She was attracted by the twinkle in his good natured eyes . 
He was a youngish man , had the stoutness of indulgence in a fondness for eating and drinking but the stoutness was still well within the bounds of decency . 
His clothing bore out the suggestion of his self assured way of stopping her the suggestion of a confidence giving prosperity . 
You look as if you needed a drink , too , said he . 
How about it , lady with the lovely feet ? For the first time in her life she was feeling on an equality with man . 
She gave him the same candidly measuring glance that man gives man . 
She saw good nature , audacity without impudence at least not the common sort of impudence . 
She smiled merrily , glad of the chance to show her delight that she was once more back in civilization after the long sojourn in the prison workshops where it is manufactured . 
She said A drink ? Thank you yes . 
That's a superior quality of smile you've got there , said he . 
That , and those nice slim feet of yours ought to win for you anywhere . 
Let's go to the Martin . 
Down University Place ? The stout young man pointed his slender cane across the street . 
You must have been away . 
Yes , said the girl . 
I'd like to try that myself if I could be sure of coming to life in little old New York . 
And he looked round with laughing eyes as if the lights , the crowds , the champagne like air intoxicated him . 
At the first break in the thunderous torrent of traffic they crossed Broadway and went in at the Twenty sixth Street entrance . 
The restaurant , to the left , was empty . 
Its little tables were ready , however , for the throng of diners soon to come . 
Susan had difficulty in restraining herself . 
She was almost delirious with delight . 
She was agitated almost to tears by the freshness , the sparkle in the glow of the red shaded candles , in the colors and odors of the flowers decorating every table . 
The break with Rod upset my mind . 
Her companion took her into the cafe to the right . 
He seated her on one of the leather benches not far from the door , seated himself in a chair opposite there was a narrow marble topped table between them . 
On Susan's right sat a too conspicuously dressed but somehow important looking actress on her left , a shopkeeper's fat wife . 
Opposite each woman sat the sort of man one would expect to find with her . 
The face of the actress's man interested her . 
It was a long pale face , the mouth weary , in the eyes a strange hot fire of intense enthusiasm . 
He was young and old and neither . 
Evidently he had lived every minute of every year of his perhaps forty years . 
He was wearing a quiet suit of blue and his necktie was of a darker shade of the same color . 
His clothes were draped upon his good figure with a certain fascinating distinction . 
He was smoking an unusually long and thick cigarette . 
The slender strong white hand he raised and lowered was the hand of an artist . 
But however bad he might be , Susan felt sure it would be an artistic kind of badness , without vulgarity . 
Then in a less cautious tone , What are you drinking ? What are you drinking ? asked Susan , still covertly watching Brent . 
You are going to dine with me ? I've no engagement . 
Then let's have Martinis and I'll go get a table and order dinner while the waiter's bringing them . 
These were the people among whom she belonged . 
Why was she having such a savage struggle to attain it ? Then , all in an instant the truth she had been so long groping for in vain flung itself at her . 
None of these women , none of the women of the prosperous classes would be there but for the assistance and protection of the men . 
She marveled at her stupidity in not having seen the obvious thing clearly long ago . 
The successful women won their success by disposing of their persons to advantage by getting the favor of some man of ability . 
Therefore , she , a woman , must adopt that same policy if she was to have a chance at the things worth while in life . 
She must make the best bargain or series of bargains she could . 
And as her necessities were pressing she must lose no time . 
There was no other way open to her . 
She must not evade that fact she must accept it . 
Other ways there might be for other women . 
She must make the bargain she could , not waste time in the folly of awaiting a bargain to her liking . 
Since she was living in the world and wished to continue to live there , she must accept the world's terms . 
She looked at Mary Rigsdall . 
Or any man's whole story . 
There her eyes shifted to Rigsdall's companion , the famous playwright of whom she had so often heard Rod and his friends talk . 
She was startled to find that his gaze was upon her an all seeing look that penetrated to the very core of her being . 
He either did not note or cared nothing about her color of embarrassment . 
He regarded her steadily until , so she felt , he had seen precisely what she was , had become intimately acquainted with her . 
It chagrined her that his eyes did not again turn in her direction she felt that he had catalogued her as not worth while . 
She listened to the conversation of the two . 
The woman did the talking , and her subject was herself her ability as an actress , her conception of some part she either was about to play or was hoping to play . 
The waiter brought the cocktails and her stout young companion came back , beaming at the thought of the dinner he had painstakingly ordered . 
As he reached the table he jerked his head in self approval . 
It'll be a good one , said he . 
Saturday night dinner and after means a lot to me . 
I work hard all week . 
Saturday nights I cut loose . 
Sundays I sleep and get ready to scramble again on Monday for the dollars . 
He seated himself , leaned toward her with elevated glass . 
What name ? inquired he . 
That's a good old fashioned name . 
Makes me see the hollyhocks , and the hens scratching for worms . 
and I'm mighty glad I did . 
I wouldn't be from anywhere else for worlds , and I wouldn't be there for worlds . 
Where do you hail from ? The West , said Susan . 
Well , the men in your particular corner out yonder must be a pretty poor lot to have let you leave . 
I spotted you for mine the minute I saw you Susan . 
I hope you're not as quiet as your name . 
Like to drink ? I'm going to do more of it hereafter . 
Been laying low for a while eh ? Very low , said Susan . 
Her eyes were sparkling now the cocktail had begun to stir her long languid blood . 
Live with your family ? I haven't any . 
On the stage ? I'm thinking of going on . 
And meanwhile ? Meanwhile whatever comes . 
Billy Howland's face was radiant . 
I had a date tonight and the lady threw me down . 
One of those drummer's wives that take in washing to add to the family income while hubby's flirting round the country . 
This hubby came home unexpectedly . 
He beamed with such whole souled good nature that Susan laughed . 
Same to you , said she . 
Hope you're going to do a lot of that laughing , said he . 
It's the best I've heard such a quiet , gay sound . 
I sure do have the best luck . 
Until five years ago there was nothing doing for Billy hall bedroom Wheeling stogies one shirt and two pairs of cuffs a week not enough to buy a lady an ice cream soda . 
All at once bang ! The hoodoo busted , and everything that arrived was for William C. Howland . 
I pay no attention to the speed laws , and round the corners on two wheels . 
Do you like good things to eat ? I haven't eaten for six months . 
You must have been out home . 
Ah ! There's the man to tell us dinner's ready . 
They finished the second cocktail . 
I'm a plain business dub . 
He wouldn't bother with me . 
You like that sort of man ? I want to get on the stage , if I can , was Susan's diplomatic reply . 
Well let's have dinner first . 
I've ordered champagne , but if you prefer something else Champagne is what I want . 
I hope it's very dry . 
Howland's eyes gazed tenderly at her . 
I do like a woman who knows the difference between champagne and carbonated sirup . 
I think you and I've got a lot of tastes in common . 
I like eating so do you . 
I like drinking so do you . 
I like a good time so do you . 
You're a little bit thin for my taste , but you'll fatten up . 
I wonder what makes your lips so pale . 
I'd hate to remind myself by telling you , said Susan . 
Most of the men and women were in evening dress . 
Each arriving woman brought with her a new exhibition of extravagance in costume , diffused a new variety of powerful perfume . 
The orchestra in the balcony was playing waltzes and the liveliest Hungarian music and the most sensuous strains from Italy and France and Spain . 
Her spirits giddied toward the ecstatic . 
She began to talk commenting on the people about her the one subject she could venture with her companion . 
As she talked and drank , he ate and drank , stuffing and gorging himself , but with a frankness of gluttony that delighted her . 
She must learn to live altogether in her senses , never to think except about an appetite . 
Where could she find a better teacher ? . 
They drank two quarts of champagne , and with the coffee she took creme de menthe and he brandy . 
I hear there's a lively ball up at Terrace Garden , said he . 
Want to go ? That'll be fine ! cried she . 
She saw it would have taken nearly all the money she possessed to have paid that bill . 
She must forget all those things ! I've played the fool once . 
Surely I'll never do it again . 
As she drank , her eyes chanced upon the clock . 
Mrs. Tucker had probably just fallen asleep . 
And Mrs. Reardon was going out to scrub going out limping and groaning with rheumatism . 
No , Mrs. Reardon was lying up at the morgue dead , her one chance to live lost forever . 
Dead ! Yet better off than Mrs. Tucker lying alive . 
I need one more , too . 
They drove in a taxi to Terrace Garden , he holding her in his arms and kissing her with an intoxicated man's enthusiasm . 
You certainly are sweet , said he . 
The wine on your breath is like flowers . 
Gosh , but I'm glad that husband came home ! Like me a little ? I'm so happy , I feel like standing up and screaming , declared she . 
Good idea , cried he . 
Whereupon he released a war whoop and they both went off into a fit of hysterical laughter . 
When it subsided he said , I sized you up as a live wire the minute I saw you . 
But you're even better than I thought . 
What are you in such a good humor about ? You couldn't understand if I told you , replied she . 
You'd have to go and live where I've been living live there as long as I have . 
The ball proved as lively as they hoped . 
Not a few of the women were extremely pretty . 
All , or almost all , were young , and those who on inspection proved to be older than eighteen or twenty were acting younger than the youngest . 
Everyone had been drinking freely , and continued to drink . 
The air was giddy with laughter and song . 
Couples hugged and kissed in corners , and finally openly on the dancing floor . 
For a while Susan and Howland danced together . 
But soon they made friends with the crowd and danced with whoever was nearest . 
Toward three in the morning it flashed upon her that she had not even seen him for many a dance . 
She looked round searched for him got a blond bearded man in evening dress to assist her . 
The last seen of your stout friend , this man finally reported , he was driving away in a cab with a large lady from Broadway . 
He was asleep , but I guess she wasn't . 
A sober thought winked into her whirling brain he had warned her to hold on tight , and she had lost her head and her opportunity . 
A bad start a foolishly bad start . 
But out winked the glimpse of sobriety and Susan laughed . 
That's the last I'll ever see of him , said she . 
This seemed to give Blond Beard no regrets . 
Said he Let's you and I have a little supper . 
I'd call it breakfast , only then we couldn't have champagne . 
And they had supper six at the table , all uproarious , Susan with difficulty restrained from a skirt dance on the table up and down among the dishes and bottles . 
It was nearly five o'clock when she and Blond Beard helped each other toward a cab . 
What's your address ? said he . 
The same as yours , replied she drowsily . 
Late that afternoon she established herself in a room with a bath in West Twenty ninth Street not far from Broadway . 
The exterior of the house was dingy and down at the heel . 
But the interior was new and scrupulously clean . 
Several other young women lived there alone also , none quite so well installed as Susan , who had the only private bath and was paying twelve dollars a week . 
The landlady , frizzled and peroxide , explained without adding anything to what she already knew that she could have privileges , but cautioned her against noise . 
I can't stand for it , said she . 
First offense out you go . 
This house is for ladies , and only gentlemen that know how to conduct themselves as a gentleman should with a lady are allowed to come here . 
Susan paid a week in advance , reducing to thirty one dollars her capital which Blond Beard had increased to forty three . 
The young lady who lived at the other end of the hall smiled at her , when both happened to glance from their open doors at the same time . 
Susan invited her to call and she immediately advanced along the hall in the blue silk kimono she was wearing over her nightgown . 
My name's Ida Driscoll , said she , showing a double row of charming white teeth her chief positive claim to beauty . 
She was short , was plump about the shoulders but slender in the hips . 
Her reddish brown hair was neatly done over a big rat , and was so spread that its thinness was hidden well enough to deceive masculine eyes . 
Nor would a man have observed that one of her white round shoulders was full two inches higher than the other . 
Her skin was good , her features small and irregular , her eyes shrewd but kindly . 
My name's Susan hesitated Lorna Sackville . 
I guess Lorna and Ida'll be enough for us to bother to remember , laughed Miss Driscoll . 
The rest's liable to change . 
You've just come , haven't you ? About an hour ago . 
I've got only a toothbrush , a comb , a washrag and a cake of soap . 
I bought them on my way here . 
Baggage lost eh ? said Ida , amused . 
I'm beginning an entire new deal . 
I'll lend you a nightgown . 
I'm too short for my other things to fit you . 
Oh , I can get along . 
What's good for a headache ? I'm nearly crazy with it . 
Ida , with bedroom slippers clattering , hurried back to her room , returned with a bottle of bromo seltzer and in the bathroom fixed Susan a dose . 
You'll feel all right in half an hour or so . 
Gee , but you're swell with your own bathroom . 
Susan shrugged her shoulders and laughed . 
Ida shook her head gravely . 
You ought to save your money . 
Just now I must have a fling . 
She went on to say I was in millinery . 
But in this town there's nothing in anything unless you have capital or a backer . 
I got tired of working for five per , with ten or fifteen as the top notch . 
So I quit , kissed my folks up in Harlem good by and came down to look about . 
As soon as I've saved enough I'm going to start a business . 
That'll be about a couple of years maybe sooner , if I find an angel . 
I'm thinking of the stage . 
Cut it out ! cried Ida . 
There's more money and less worry in straight sporting if you keep respectable . 
Of course , there's nothing in out and out sporting . 
Oh , I haven't decided on anything . 
Sure ! If the dose I gave you don't knock it you can get one at the drug store two blocks up Sixth Avenue that'll do the trick . 
Got a dinner date ? No. I haven't anything on hand . 
I think you and I might work together , said Ida . 
We'd catch 'em coming and going . 
That sounds good , said Susan . 
You're new to to the business ? In a way yes . 
We all soon get a kind of a professional look . 
Still , so many dead respectable women imitate nowadays , and paint and use loud perfumes , that sporting women aren't nearly so noticeable . 
Seems to me the men's tastes even for what they want at home are getting louder and louder all the time . 
They hate anything that looks slow . 
And in our business it's harder and harder to please them except the yaps from the little towns and the college boys . 
A woman has to be up to snuff if she gets on . 
If she looks what she is , men won't have her nor if she is what she looks . 
Susan had not lived where every form of viciousness is openly discussed and practiced , without having learned the things necessary to a full understanding of Ida's technical phrases and references . 
The liveliness that had come with the departure of the headache vanished . 
To change the subject she invited Ida to dine with her . 
What's the use of your spending money in a restaurant ? objected Ida . 
You eat with me in my room . 
I always cook myself something when I ain't asked out by some one of my gentleman friends . 
I can cook you a chop and warm up a can of French peas and some dandy tea biscuits I bought yesterday . 
Susan accepted the invitation , promising that when she was established she would reciprocate . 
As it was about six , they arranged to have the dinner at seven , Susan to dress in the meantime . 
The headache had now gone , even to that last heaviness which seems to be an ominous threat of a return . 
When she was alone , she threw off her clothes , filled the big bathtub with water as hot as she could stand it . 
Into this she gently lowered herself until she was able to relax and recline without discomfort . 
Then she stood up and with the soap and washrag gave herself the most thorough scrubbing of her life . 
Time after time she soaped and rubbed and scrubbed , and dipped herself in the hot water . 
When she felt that she had restored her body to some where near her ideal of cleanness , she let the water run out and refilled the tub with even hotter water . 
In this she lay luxuriously , reveling in the magnificent sensations of warmth and utter cleanliness . 
Her eyes closed a delicious languor stole over her and through her , soothing every nerve . 
She was awakened by Ida , who had entered after knocking and calling at the outer door in vain . 
Susan slowly opened her eyes , gazed at Ida with a soft dreamy smile . 
You don't know what this means . 
It seems to me I was never quite so comfortable or so happy in my life . 
It's a shame to disturb you , said Ida . 
Don't stop to dress first . 
I'll bring you a kimono . 
Susan turned on the cold water , and the bath rapidly changed from warm to icy . 
Then she put on stockings , shoes and the pink kimono Ida had brought , and ran along the hall to dinner . 
You've got a swell color except your lips . 
Have they always been pale like that ? No. I thought not . 
It don't seem to fit in with your style . 
You ought to touch 'em up . 
You look too serious and innocent , anyhow . 
They make a rouge now that'll stick through everything eating , drinking anything . 
Susan regarded herself critically in the glass . 
I'll see , she said . 
The odor of the cooking chops thrilled Susan like music . 
You know how to cook a chop , she said to Ida . 
And anybody who can cook a chop right can cook . 
Cooking's like playing the piano . 
If you can do the simple things perfectly , you're ready to do anything . 
Wait till I have a flat of my own , said Ida . 
I'll show you what eating means . 
And I'll have it , too , before very long . 
I was to a fortune teller's yesterday . 
That's the only way I waste money . 
I go to fortune tellers nearly every day . 
But then all the girls do . 
You get your money's worth in excitement and hope , whether there's anything in it or not . 
My , but she did give me a swell fortune , and only fifty cents ! I'll take you to her . 
Ida made black coffee and the two girls , profoundly contented , drank it and talked with that buoyant cheerfulness which bubbles up in youth on the slightest pretext . 
And Susan was still in the first flush of the joy of escape from the noisome prison whose poisons had been corroding her , soul and body . 
You'd better save your money to put in the millinery business with me , Ida advised . 
I can show you how to make a lot . 
Sometimes I clear as high as a hundred a week , and I don't often fall below seventy five . 
So many girls go about this business in a no account way , instead of being regular and businesslike . 
Susan strove to hide the feelings aroused by this practical statement of what lay before her . 
Those feelings filled her with misgiving . 
And yet Susan's flesh quivered and shrank away . 
She struggled against it , but she could not conquer it . 
Experience had apparently been in vain her character had remained unchanged . 
While she was fighting with herself , Ida had been talking on the same subject . 
When Susan heard again , Ida was saying Now , take me , for instance . 
I don't smoke or drink . 
There's nothing in either one especially drink . 
Of course sometimes a girl's got to drink . 
A man watches her too close for her to dodge out . 
But usually you can make him think you're as full as he is , when you really are cold sober . 
Do the men always drink when they come with with us ? asked Susan . 
They come because they want to turn themselves loose . 
That's why a girl's got to be careful not to make a man feel nervous or shy . 
A respectable woman's game is to be modest and innocent . 
With us , the opposite . 
They're both games one's just as good as the other . 
I don't think I could get along at all at this , confessed Susan with an effort , unless I drank too much so that I was reckless and didn't care what happened . 
Ida looked directly into her eyes Susan's glance fell and a flush mounted . 
After a pause Ida went on A girl does feel that way at first . 
Of course , you've got to get broke into any business . 
Go on , said Susan eagerly . 
Common sense is a thing you don't often hear especially about getting on in the world . 
But , as I was saying one of my gentlemen friends is a lawyer such a nice fellow so liberal . 
Gives me a present of twenty or twenty five extra , you understand every time he makes a killing downtown . 
But now I take that sort of thing as easy as you do . 
He says the thing is to get on , no matter how , and that one way's as good as another . 
You soon learn that in little old New York , where you've got to have the mon . 
or you get the laugh and the foot the swift , hard kick . 
Clean up after you've arrived , he says and don't try to keep clean while you're working and don't stop for baths and things while you're at the job . 
Susan was listening with every faculty she possessed . 
He says he talks the other sort of thing the dope the fake stuff just as the rest of the hustlers do . 
Oh , he's got it right . 
The sad , bitter expression was strong in Susan's face . 
After a pause , Ida went on If a girl's an ignorant fool or squeamish , she don't get up in this business any more than in any other . 
Susan lifted her head eagerly . 
Don't have to take to the streets ? she echoed . 
Certainly not , declared Ida . 
I very seldom let a man pick me up after dark unless he looks mighty good . 
I go out in the daytime . 
I put a lot of money into clothes quiet , ladylike clothes . 
If you ain't got clothes in New York you can't do any kind of business . 
I go where a nice class of men hangs out , and I never act bold , but just flirt timidly , as so many respectable girls or semi respectables do . 
But when a girl plays that game , she has to be careful not to make a man think he ain't expected to pay . 
The town's choked full of men on the lookout for what they call love which means , for something cheap or , better still , free . 
Men are just crazy about themselves . 
Nothing easier than to fool 'em and nothing's harder than to make 'em think you ain't stuck on 'em . 
I tell you , a girl in our life has a chance to learn men . 
They turn themselves inside out to us . 
Susan , silent , her thoughts flowing like a mill race , helped Ida with the dishes . 
Then they dressed and went together for a walk . 
It being Sunday evening , the streets were quiet . 
They sauntered up Fifth Avenue as far as Fifty ninth Street and back . 
Ida's calm and sensible demeanor gave Susan much needed courage every time a man spoke to them . 
None of these men happened to be up to Ida's standard , which was high . 
No use wasting time on snide people , explained she . 
We don't want drinks and a gush of loose talk , and I saw at a glance that was all those chappies were good for . 
They returned home at half past nine without adventure . 
Toward midnight one of Ida's regulars called and Susan was free to go to bed . 
She slept hardly at all . 
Ever before her mind hovered a nameless , shapeless horror . 
And when she slept she dreamed of her wedding night , woke herself screaming , Please , Mr. Ferguson please ! Ida had three chief sources of revenue . 
The best was five men her regular gentleman friends who called by appointment from time to time . 
These paid her ten dollars apiece , and occasionally gave her presents of money or jewelry nothing that amounted to much . 
From them she averaged about thirty five dollars a week . 
This lady had a list of girls and married women upon whom she could call . 
Gentlemen using her house for rendezvous were sometimes disappointed by the ladies with whom they were intriguing . 
Again a gentleman grew a little weary of his perhaps too respectable or too sincerely loving ladylove and appealed to Mrs. Thurston . 
Mrs. Thurston insisted and Ida was inclined to believe that there were genuine cases of this kind on the list . 
It's mighty hard for women with expensive tastes and small means to keep straight in New York , said she to Susan . 
It costs so much to live , and there are so many ways to spend money . 
And they always have rich lady friends who set an extravagant pace . 
They've got to dress and to kind of keep up their end . 
So Ida laughed , went on Besides the city women are getting so they like a little sporty novelty as much as their brothers and husbands and fathers do . 
Oh , I'm not ashamed of my business any more . 
We're as good as the others , and we're not hypocrites . 
Ida's third source of income was to her the most attractive because it had such a large gambling element in it . 
This was her flirtations as a respectable woman in search of lively amusement and having to take care not to be caught . 
There are women of all kinds who delight in deceiving men because it gives them a sweet stealthy sense of superiority to the condescending sex . 
In women of the Ida class this pleasure becomes as much a passion as it is in the respectable woman whom her husband tries to enslave . 
With Susan , another woman and one in need of education , Ida was simple and scrupulously truthful . 
But it would have been impossible for a man to get truth as to anything from her . 
She amused herself inventing plausible romantic stories about herself that she might enjoy the gullibility of the boastfully superior and patronizing male . 
She was devoid of sentiment , even of passion . 
Yet at times she affected both in the most extreme fashion . 
And afterward , with peals of laughter , she would describe to Susan how the man had acted , what an ass she had made of him . 
Men despise us , she said . 
But it's nothing to the way I despise them . 
The best of them are rotten beasts when they show themselves as they are . 
And they haven't any mercy on us . 
Men despise a man who is virtuous and a woman who isn't . 
What rot ! She deceived the regulars without taking the trouble to remember her deceptions . 
They caught her lying so often that she knew they thought her untruthful through and through . 
But this only gave her an opportunity for additional pleasure the pleasure of inventing lies that they would believe in spite of their distrust of her . 
Her greatest triumph at this game was a hard luck story she had told so effectively that the man had given her two hundred dollars . 
Most of her romances turned about her own ruin . 
But Ida never told her lovers her plain and commonplace tale of yielding to the irresistible pressure of economic forces . 
She had made men weep at her recital of her wrongs . 
It had even brought her offers of marriage none , however , worth accepting . 
I'd be a boob to marry a man with less than fifteen or twenty thousand a year , wouldn't I ? said she . 
Why , two of the married men who come to see me regularly give me more than they give their wives for pin money . 
And in a few years I'll be having my own respectable business , with ten thousand income maybe more and as well thought of as the next woman . 
Ida's dream was a house in the country , a fine flat in town , a husband in some refined profession and children at high class schools . 
And I'll get there , don't you doubt it ! exclaimed she . 
Others have of course , you don't know about them they've looked out for that . 
Yes , lots of others have but well , just you watch your sister Ida . 
And Susan felt that she would indeed arrive . 
Already she had seen that there was no difficulty such as she had once imagined about recrossing the line to respectability . 
Susan thanked her , but said , Not yet not quite yet . 
Ida suggested that they go out together as two young married women whose husbands had gone on the road . 
Susan put her off from day to day . 
Ida finally offered to introduce her to one of the regulars He's a nice fellow knows how to treat a lady in a gentlemanly way . 
Not a bit coarse or familiar . 
Susan would not permit this generosity . 
And all this time her funds were sinking . 
She had paid a second week's rent , had bought cooking apparatus , some food supplies , some necessary clothing . 
She was down to a five dollar bill and a little change . 
Ida tossed her head angrily . 
You've got brains more than I have , she cried . 
You've got every advantage for catching rich men even a rich husband . 
You speak and act and look refined . 
Why you could pretend to be a howling fashionable swell . 
You've got all the points . 
But what have you got 'em for ? Not to use that's certain . 
You can't be as disgusted with me as I am . 
If you're going to do a thing , why , do it ! That's what I tell myself . 
But I can't make a move . 
Ida gave a gesture of despair . 
I don't see what's to become of you . 
And you could do so well ! . 
Let me phone Mr. Sterling . 
I told him about you . 
He's anxious to meet you . 
He's fond of books like you . 
He'd give up a lot to you , because you're classier than I am . 
Susan threw her arms round Ida and kissed her . 
Don't bother about me , she said . 
I've got to act in my own foolish , stupid way . 
I'm like a child going to school . 
I've got to learn a certain amount before I'm ready to do whatever it is I'm going to do . 
And until I learn it , I can't do much of anything . 
I thought I had learned in the last few months . 
Do listen to sense , Lorna , pleaded Ida . 
If you wait till the last minute , you'll get left . 
The time to get the money's when you have money . 
And I've a feeling that you're not particularly flush . 
I'll do the best I can . 
And I can't move till I'm ready . 
Meanwhile she continued to search for work work that would enable her to live decently , wages less degrading than the wages of shame . 
In a newspaper she read an advertisement of a theatrical agency . 
Advertisements of all kinds read well those of theatrical agencies read like the fairy tales that they were . 
Rod was abroad anyhow , enough time had elapsed . 
Susan , a New Yorker now , had got the habit in thought , at least of seeing things with somewhat less distortion from the actual . 
She no longer exaggerated the importance of the Rod Susan episode . 
Rod had passed from her life , and she from his life . 
Thus she was free to begin her real career the stage if she could . 
She went to the suite of offices tenanted by Mr. Josiah Ransome . 
She was ushered in to Ransome himself , instead of halting with underlings . 
She owed this favor to advantages which her lack of vanity and of self consciousness prevented her from surmising . 
Ransome smooth , curly , comfortable looking received her with a delicate blending of the paternal and the gallant . 
If you register with me , I can guarantee you not less than twenty five a week . 
Susan hesitated long and asked many questions before she finally with reluctance paid the five dollars . 
She felt ashamed of her distrust , but might perhaps have persisted in it had not Mr. Ransome said I don't blame you for hesitating , my dear young lady . 
And if I could I'd put you on my list without payment . 
But you can see how unbusinesslike that would be . 
I am a substantial , old established concern . 
You no doubt you are perfectly reliable . 
But I have been fooled so many times . 
I must not let myself forget that after all I know nothing about you . 
As soon as Susan had paid he gave her a list of vaudeville and musical comedy houses where girls were wanted . 
You can't fail to suit one of them , said he . 
If not , come back here and get your money . 
After two weary days of canvassing she went back to Ransome . 
But he smiled genially , opened his desk and seated himself . 
At your service , said he . 
What luck ? None , replied Susan . 
I couldn't live on the wages they offered at the musical comedy places , even if I could get placed . 
And the vaudeville people ? When I said I could only sing and not dance , they looked discouraged . 
When I said I had no costumes they turned me down . 
You mustn't be so easily beaten . 
You must take dancing lessons perhaps a few singing lessons , too . 
And you must get some costumes . 
But that means several hundred dollars . 
Three or four hundred , said Ransome airily . 
A matter of a few weeks . 
But I haven't anything like that , said Susan . 
I haven't so much as I comprehend perfectly , interrupted Ransome . 
She interested him , this unusual looking girl , with her attractive mingling of youth and experience . 
Her charm that tempted people to give her at once the frankest confidences , moved him to go out of his way to help her . 
You haven't the money , he went on . 
So I promised to place you , and I will . 
I don't usually go so far in assisting my clients . 
It's not often necessary and where it's necessary it's usually imprudent . 
However I'll give you the address of a flat where there is a lady a trustworthy , square sort , despite her her profession . 
She will put you in the way of getting on a sound financial basis . 
Ransome spoke in a matter of fact tone , like a man stating a simple business proposition . 
Her expression was neither shock nor indignation but it was none the less a negative . 
It's the regular thing , my dear , urged Ransome . 
To make a start , to get in right , you can't afford to be squeamish . 
The way I suggest is the simplest and most direct of several that all involve the same thing . 
You look steady headed self reliant . 
You look sensible Susan smiled rather forlornly . 
But I'm not , said she . 
Ransome regarded her with a sympathy which she felt was genuine . 
I'm sorry , my dear . 
I've done the best I can for you . 
You may think it a very poor best and it is . 
But he shrugged his shoulders I didn't make this world and its conditions for living . 
I may say also that I'm not the responsible party the party in charge . 
However To her amazement he held out a five dollar bill . 
He laughed at her expression . 
Oh , I'm not a robber , said he . 
I only wish I could serve you . 
I didn't think you were so his eyes twinkled so unreasonable , let us say . 
Among those who don't know anything about life there's an impression that my sort of people are in the business of dragging women down . 
Perhaps one of us occasionally does as bad about a millionth part as bad as the average employer of labor who skims his profits from the lifeblood of his employees . 
But as a rule we folks merely take those that are falling and help them to light easy or even to get up again . 
Susan felt ashamed to take her money . 
But he pressed it on her . 
You'll need it , said he . 
I know how it is with a girl alone and trying to get a start . 
Perhaps later on you'll be more in the mood where I can help you . 
It'll take uncommon luck to pull you through and I hope you'll have it . 
Thank you , said Susan . 
She was waiting for a thrust from fate . 
But fate , disappointing as usual , would not thrust . 
She searched within herself in vain for the scruple or sentiment or timidity or whatever it was that held her back from the course that was plainly inevitable . 
She had got down to the naked fundamentals of decency and indecency that are deep hidden by , and for most of us under , hypocrisies of conventionality . 
She probably would have done that had she not been so utterly healthy , therefore overflowing with passionate love of life . 
Except in fiction suicide and health do not go together , however superhumanly sensitive the sore beset hero or heroine . 
Susan was sensitive enough whenever she did things incompatible with our false and hypocritical and unscientific notions of sensitiveness , allowances should be made for her because of her superb and dauntless health . 
If her physical condition had been morbid , her conduct might have been , would have been , very different . 
She was still hesitating when Saturday night came round again swiftly despite long disheartening days , and wakeful awful nights . 
In the morning her rent would be due . 
She had a dollar and forty five cents . 
After dinner alone a pretense at dinner she wandered the streets of the old Tenderloin until midnight . 
An icy rain was falling . 
Rains such as this any rains except showers were rare in the City of the Sun . 
That rain by itself was enough to make her downhearted . 
She walked with head down and umbrella close to her shoulders . 
No one spoke to her . 
She returned dripping she had all but ruined her one dress . 
She went to bed , but not to sleep . 
About nine early for that house she rose , drank a cup of coffee and ate part of a roll . 
Her little stove and such other things as could not be taken along she rolled into a bundle , marked it , For Ida . 
On a scrap of paper she wrote this note Don't think I'm ungrateful , please . 
I'm going without saying good by because I'm afraid if I saw you , you'd be generous enough to put up for me , and I'd be weak enough to accept . 
And if I did that , I'd never be able to get strong or even to hold my head up . 
I'll learn sooner or later learn how to live . 
I hope it won't be too long and that the teacher won't be too hard on me . 
Yes , I'll learn , and I'll buy fine hats at your grand millinery store yet . 
She tucked this note into the bundle and laid it against the door behind which Ida and one of her regulars were sleeping peacefully . 
With her few personal possessions in a package she descended the stairs unnoticed , went out into the rain . 
At the corner of Sixth Avenue she paused , looked up and down the street . 
Susan went slowly up Sixth Avenue . 
Two blocks , and she saw a girl enter the side door of a saloon across the way . 
She crossed the street , pushed in at the same door , went on to a small sitting room with blinds drawn , with round tables , on every table a match stand . 
The air of the room was strong with stale liquor and tobacco , the lingering aroma of the night's vanished revels . 
In the far corner sat the girl she had followed a glass of raw whiskey and another of water stood on the table before her . 
Susan seated herself near the door and when the swollen faced , surly bartender came , ordered whiskey . 
She poured herself a drink filled the glass to the brim . 
She drank it in two gulps , set the empty glass down . 
She shivered like an animal as it is hit in the head with a poleax . 
The mechanism of life staggered , hesitated , went on with a sudden leaping acceleration of pace . 
Susan tapped her glass against the matchstand . 
The man stared at her . 
The hell ! he ejaculated . 
You must be afraid o' catchin' cold . 
Or maybe you're looking for the menagerie ? Susan laughed and so did the girl in the corner . 
Won't you have a drink with me ? asked Susan . 
She moved to a chair at Susan's table . 
She and Susan inventoried each other . 
Susan drank her second drink in three gulps , several minutes apart . 
Suppose you come with me , she suggested . 
It's good money , I think . 
Want to get next ? When I've had another drink , said Susan . 
Her eyes were gorgeously brilliant . 
She had felt almost as reckless several times before but never had she felt this devil may care eagerness to see what the turn of the next card would bring . 
You'll take one ? Sure . 
I feel like the devil . 
Been bumming round all night . 
My lady friend that I had with me a regular lady friend she was suddenly took ill . 
's the ambulance guy said . 
The boys are waiting for me to come back , so's we can go on . 
They've got some swell rooms in a hotel up in Forty second Street . 
Let's get a move on . 
The bartender served the third drink and Susan paid for them , the other girl insisting on paying for the one she was having when Susan came . 
Her spirits were spiraling up and up . 
Her pale lips were wreathed in a reckless smile . 
She felt courageous for adventure any adventure . 
Her capital had now sunk to three quarters and a five cent piece . 
They issued forth , talking without saying anything , laughing without knowing or caring why . 
Life was a joke a coarse , broad joke but amusing if one drank enough to blunt any refinement of sensibility . 
And what was sensibility but a kind of snobbishness ? And what more absurd than snobbishness in an outcast ? That's good whiskey they had , back there , said Susan . 
Good ? Yes if you don't care what you say . 
If you don't want to care what you say or do , explained Susan . 
Oh , all booze is good for that , said the girl . 
VI THEY went through to Broadway and there stood waiting for a car , each under her own umbrella . 
Holy Gee ! cried Susan's new acquaintance . 
Ain't this rain a soaker ? It was coming in sheets , bent and torn and driven horizontally by the wind . 
The umbrella , sheltering the head somewhat , gave a wholly false impression of protection . 
Both girls were soon sopping wet . 
But they were more than cheerful about it the whiskey made them indifferent to external ills as they warmed themselves by its bright fire . 
Thus , the street car service was a joke and a disgrace . 
However , after four or five minutes a north bound car appeared . 
But it won't stop , cried Susan . 
That's why it will stop , replied her new acquaintance . 
All the way up Broadway the new acquaintance enlivened herself and Susan and the men they were squeezed in among by her loud gay sallies which her young prettiness made seem witty . 
And certainly she did have an amazing and amusing acquaintance with the slang at the moment current . 
The worn look had vanished , her rounded girlhood freshness had returned . 
As for Susan , you would hardly have recognized her as the same person who had issued from the house in Twenty ninth Street less than an hour before . 
Indeed , it was not the same person . 
Her brilliant glance moved about the car full as boldly as her companion's . 
But there was this difference Her companion gazed straight into the eyes of the men Susan's glance shot past above or just below their eyes . 
As they left the car at Forty second Street the other girl gave her short skirt a dexterous upward flirt that exhibited her legs almost to the hips . 
Susan saw that they were well shaped legs , surprisingly plump from the calves upward , considering the slightness of her figure above the waist . 
I always do that when I leave a car , said the girl . 
Sometimes it starts something on the trail . 
You forgot your package back in the saloon ! Then I didn't forget much , laughed Susan . 
It appealed to her , the idea of entering the new life empty handed . 
It had now sunk to relying upon the trade of those who came in off Broadway for a few minutes . 
It was dingy and dirty the walls and plastering were peeling the servants were slovenly and fresh . 
The girl nodded to the evil looking man behind the desk , who said Hello , Miss Maud . 
The boys were sending out for some others . 
They've got a nerve ! laughed Maud . 
And she led Susan down a rather long corridor to a door with the letter B upon it . 
Maud explained This is the swellest suite in the house parlor , bedroom , bath . 
Maud burst into a stream of picturesque profanity which set the two men to laughing . 
Susan had paused on the threshold . 
The shock of this scene had for the moment arrested the triumphant march of the alcohol through blood and nerve and brain . 
Oh , bite it off ! cried the darker of the two men to Maud , and have a drink . 
Ain't you ashamed to speak so free before your innocent young lady friend ? He grinned at Susan . 
What Sunday school do you hail from ? inquired he . 
The other young man was also looking at Susan and it was an arresting and somewhat compelling gaze . 
She saw that he was tall and well set up . 
As he was dressed only in trousers and a pale blue silk undershirt , the strength of his shoulders , back and arms was in full evidence . 
His figure was like that of the wonderful young prize fighters she had admired at moving picture shows to which Drumley had taken her . 
He had a singularly handsome face , blond yet remotely suggesting Italian . 
He smiled at Susan and she thought she had never seen teeth more beautiful pearl white , regular , even . 
His youth , his good looks , his charm made the sinister savagery hinted in the smile the more disconcerting . 
He poured whiskey from a bottle into each of the two tall glasses , filled them up with seltzer , extended one toward Susan . 
Shut the door , Queenie , he said to her in a pleasant tone that subtly mingled mockery and admiration . 
And let's drink to love . 
Didn't I do well for you , Freddie ? cried Maud . 
She's my long sought affinity , declared Freddie with the same attractive mingling of jest and flattery . 
Susan closed the door , accepted the glass , laughed into his eyes . 
The whiskey was once more asserting its power . 
She took about half the drink before she set the glass down . 
The young man said , Your name's Queenie , mine's Freddie . 
He came to her , holding her gaze fast by the piercing look from his handsome eyes . 
He put his arms round her and kissed her full upon the pale , laughing lips . 
His eyes were still smiling in pleasant mockery yet his kiss burned and stung , and the grip of his arm round her shoulders made her vaguely afraid . 
The grave , searching , wondering expression reappeared in the violet gray eyes for a moment . 
You're all right , said he . 
You're going to be my girl . 
That means , if you ever try to get away from me unless I let you go I'll kill you or worse . 
And he laughed as if he had made the best joke in the world . 
But she saw in his eyes a sparkle that seemed to her to have something of the malignance of the angry serpent's . 
She hastily finished her drink . 
Maud was jerking off her clothes , crying , I want to get out of these nasty wet rags . 
The steam heat was full on the sitting room , the whole suite , was intensely warm . 
Maud hung her skirt over the back of a chair close to the radiator , took off her shoes and stockings and put them to dry also . 
In her chemise she curled herself on a chair , lit a cigarette and poured a drink . 
Her feet were not bad , but neither were they notably good she tucked them out of sight . 
Get off those wet things , urged she , or you'll take your death . 
In a minute , said Susan , but not convincingly . 
Freddie forced another drink and a cigarette upon her . 
So the cigarette did not make her uncomfortable . 
Look at the way she's holding it ? cried Maud , and she and the men burst out laughing . 
Susan laughed also and , Freddie helping , practiced a less inexpert manner . 
Jim , the dark young man with the sullen heavy countenance , rang for more sandwiches and another bottle of whiskey . 
Susan continued to drink but ate nothing . 
Have a sandwich , said Freddie . 
Well , they say that to eat and drink means to die of paresis , while to only drink means dying of delirium tremens . 
Jim sang a ribald song with some amusing comedy business . 
Maud told several stories whose only claim to point lay in their frankness about things not usually spoken . 
Don't you tell any more , Maudie , advised Freddie . 
Presently Maud again noticed that Susan was in her wet clothes and cried out about it . 
Susan pretended to start to undress . 
Freddie and Jim suddenly seized her . 
She struggled , half laughing the whiskey was sending into her brain dizzying clouds . 
But it was in vain . 
Gee , you have got a prize , Freddie ! exclaimed Jim at last , angry . 
A regular tartar ! A damn handsome one , retorted Freddie . 
Susan , amid the laughter of the others , darted for the bedroom . 
Cowering in a corner , trying to cover herself , she ordered Freddie to leave her . 
He laughed , seized her in his iron grip . 
She struck at him , bit him in the shoulder . 
He gave a cry of pain and drove a savage blow into her cheek . 
Then he buried his fingers in her throat and the gleam of his eyes made her soul quail . 
Don't kill me ! she cried , in the clutch of cowardice for the first time . 
Don't kill me ! she shrieked . 
What the hell are you doing ? shouted Jim from the other room . 
Shut that door , replied Freddie . 
I'm going to attend to my lady friend . 
As the door slammed , he dragged Susan by the throat and one arm to the bed , flung her down . 
I saw you were a high stepper the minute I looked at you , said he , in a pleasant , cooing voice that sent the chills up and down her spine . 
I knew you'd have to be broke . 
Well , the sooner it's done , the sooner we'll get along nicely . 
His blue eyes were laughing into hers . 
With the utmost deliberation he gripped her throat with one hand and with the other began to slap her , each blow at his full strength . 
Her attempts to scream were only gasps . 
Quickly the agony of his brutality drove her into unconsciousness . 
Long after she had ceased to feel pain , she continued to feel the impact of those blows , and dully heard her own deep groans . 
When she came to her senses , she was lying sprawled upon the far side of the bed . 
Her head was aching wildly her body was stiff and sore her face felt as if it were swollen to many times its normal size . 
In misery she dragged herself up and stood on the floor . 
She went to the bureau and stared at herself in the glass . 
Her face was indeed swollen , but not to actual disfigurement . 
Under her left eye there was a small cut from which the blood had oozed to smear and dry upon her left cheek . 
Upon her throat were faint bluish finger marks . 
The damage was not nearly so great as her throbbing nerves reported the damage to her body . 
But her soul it was a crushed , trampled , degraded thing , lying prone and bleeding to death . 
Shall I kill myself ? she thought . 
And the answer came in a fierce protest and refusal from every nerve of her intensely vital youth . 
She looked straight into her own eyes without horror , without shame , without fear . 
She turned round to look again at the man who had outraged them . 
His eyes were open and he was gazing dreamily at her , as smiling and innocent as a child . 
When their eyes met , his smile broadened until he was showing his beautiful teeth . 
You are a beauty ! said he . 
Go into the other room and get me a cigarette . 
She continued to look fixedly at him . 
Without change of expression he said gently , Do you want another lesson in manners ? She went to the door , opened it , entered the sitting room . 
The other two had pulled open a folding bed and were lying in it , Jim's head on Maud's bosom , her arms round his neck . 
His black beard had grown out enough to give his face a dirty and devilish expression . 
Maud looked far more youthful and much prettier than when she was awake . 
Susan put a cigarette between her lips , lit it , carried a box of cigarettes and a stand of matches in to Freddie . 
Light one for me , said he . 
She obeyed , held it to his lips . 
Kiss me , he repeated , far down in his eyes the vicious gleam of that boundlessly ferocious cruelty which is mothered not by rage but by pleasure . 
She kissed him on the cheek . 
On the lips , he commanded . 
Their lips met , and it was to her as if a hot flame , terrible yet thrilling , swept round and embraced her whole body . 
Do you love me ? he asked tenderly . 
You love me ? he asked commandingly . 
You can call it that if you like . 
The way to make a woman love is to make her afraid . 
I am not afraid , she said . 
That's why you do what I say and always will . 
I don't do it because I am afraid , but because I want to live . 
You'll be all right in a day or so , said he , after inspecting her bruises . 
Now , I'll explain to you what good friends we're going to be . 
He propped himself in an attitude of lazy grace , puffed at his cigarette in silence for a moment , as if arranging what he had to say . 
At last he began I haven't any regular business . 
I wasn't born to work . 
Only damn fools work and the clever man waits till they've got something , then he takes it away from 'em . 
You don't want to work , either . 
I haven't been able to make a living at it , said the girl . 
She was sitting cross legged , a cover draped around her . 
You're too pretty and too clever . 
Besides , as you say , you couldn't make a living at it not what's a living for a woman brought up as you've been . 
No , you can't work . 
So we're going to be partners . 
I'm going to dress now and go away . 
Didn't I say we were to be partners ? . 
You want to keep on at the sporting business , don't you ? Hers was the silence of assent . 
Well a woman especially a young one like you is no good unless she has someone some man behind her . 
Married or single , respectable or lively , working or sporting N. G. without a man . 
A woman alone doesn't amount to any more than a rich man's son . 
There had been nothing in Susan's experience to enable her to dispute this . 
Now , I'm going to stand behind you . 
I'll see that you don't get pinched , and get you out if you do . 
I'll see that you get the best the city's got if you're sick and so on . 
I've got a pull with the organization . 
I'm one of Finnegan's lieutenants . 
Some day when I'm older and have served my apprenticeship I'll pull off something good . 
Meanwhile I manage to live . 
I always have managed it and I never did a stroke of real work since I was a kid and never shall . 
God was mighty good to me when he put a few brains in this nut of mine . 
He settled his head comfortably in the pillow and smiled at his own thoughts . 
In spite of herself Susan had been not only interested but attracted . 
It is impossible for any human being to contemplate mystery in any form without being fascinated . 
And here was the profoundest mystery she had ever seen . 
He talked well , and his mode of talking was that of education , of refinement even . 
An extraordinary man , certainly and in what a strange way ! Yes , said he presently , looking at her with his gentle , friendly smile . 
I'll protect you and we'll divide what you make . 
What a strange creature ! Had he this kindly handsome youth done that frightful thing ? No no . 
It was another instance of the unreality of the outward life . 
He had not done it , any more than she her real self had suffered it . 
Her reply to his restatement of the partnership was No , thank you . 
I want nothing to do with it . 
You're dead slow , said he , with mild and patient persuasion . 
How would you get along at your business in this town if you didn't have a backer ? Why , you'd be taking turns at the Island and the gutter within six months . 
You'd be giving all your money to some rotten cop or fly cop who couldn't protect you , at that . 
Or you'd work the street for some cheap cadet who'd beat you up oftener than he'd beat up the men who welched on you . 
I'll look out for myself , persisted she . 
Bless the baby ! exclaimed he , immensely amused . 
How lucky that you found me ! I'm going to take care of you in spite of yourself . 
Not for nothing , of course . 
You wouldn't value me if you got me for nothing . 
I'm going to help you , and you're going to help me . 
You need me , and I need you . 
Why do you suppose I took the trouble to tame you ? What you want doesn't go . 
He let her reflect on this a while . 
Then he went on You don't understand about fellows like Jim and me though Jim's a small potato beside me , as you'll soon find out . 
Well , it's time you learned . 
We'll say , you act stubborn . 
You dress and say good by to me and start out . 
Do you think I'm wicked enough to let you make a fool of yourself ? Well , I'm not . 
You won't get outside the door before your good angel here will get busy . 
I'll be telephoning to a fly cop of this district . 
And what'll he do ? Why , about the time you are halfway down the block , he'll pinch you . 
He'll take you to the station house . 
And in Police Court tomorrow the Judge'll give you a week on the Island for being a streetwalker . 
She instinctively glanced toward the window . 
The rain was still falling , changing the City of the Sun into a city of desolation . 
It looked as though it would never see the sun again and her life looked that way , also . 
He went on You do your little stretch on the Island . 
When your time's up I send you word where to report to me . 
We'll say you don't come . 
The minute you set foot on the streets again alone , back to the Island you go . 
Now , do you understand , Queenie ? And he laughed and pulled her over and kissed her and smoothed her hair . 
You're a very superior article you are , he murmured . 
She did not care what happened to her . 
The more intelligent a trapped animal is , the less resistance it offers , once it realizes . 
Outside lay the vast world across the street on a flagpole fluttered the banner of freedom . 
Freedom ! Was there any such thing anywhere ? Perhaps if one had plenty of money or powerful friends . 
But not for her , any more than for the masses whose fate of squalid and stupid slavery she was trying to escape . 
Not for her so long as she was helpless she would simply move from one land of slavery to another . 
Helpless ! To struggle would not be courageous , but merely absurd . 
If you don't believe me , ask Maud , said Freddie . 
I don't want you to get into trouble . 
As I told you , I'm stuck on you . 
You don't realize your good luck . 
But you will when you find how many girls are crazy to get on the good side of me . 
This is a great old town , and nobody amounts to anything in it unless he's got a pull or is next to somebody else that has . 
Susan's slow reflective nod showed that this statement explained , or seemed to explain , certain mysteries of life that had been puzzling her . 
You've got a lot in you , continued he . 
That's my opinion , and I'm a fair judge of yearlings . 
You're liable to land somewhere some day when you've struck your gait . 
If I had the mon I'd be tempted to set you up in a flat and keep you all to myself . 
But I can't afford it . 
It takes a lot of cash to keep me going . 
You won't have to bother with any but classy gents . 
I'll see that the cops put you wise when there's anyone round throwing his money away . 
And I can help you , myself . 
I've got quite a line of friends among the rich chappies from Fifth Avenue . 
And I always let my girls get the benefit of it . 
My girls ! Susan's mind , recovering now from its daze , seized upon this phrase . 
And soon she had fathomed how these two young men came to be so luxuriously dressed , so well supplied with money . 
She had heard of this system under which the girls in the streets were exploited as thoroughly as the girls in the houses . 
Jealous already ! And he laughed and blew a cloud of smoke into her face . 
She took the quarters he directed a plain clean room two flights up at seven dollars a week , in a furnished room house on West Forty third Street near Eighth Avenue . 
She was but a few blocks from where she and Rod had lived . 
New York to a degree unrivaled among the cities of the world illustrates in the isolated lives of its never isolated inhabitants how little relationship there is between space and actualities of distance . 
Wherever on earth there are as many as two human beings , one may see an instance of the truth . 
That an infinity of spiritual solitude can stretch uncrossable even between two locked in each other's loving arms ! But New York's solitudes , its separations , extend to the surface things . 
Susan had no sense of the apparent nearness of her former abode . 
Her life again lay in the same streets but there again came the sense of strangeness which only one who has lived in New York could appreciate . 
There were as many worlds as kinds of people . 
Thus , though we all talk to each other as if about the same world , each of us is thinking of his own kind of world , the only one he sees . 
And that is why there can never be sympathy and understanding among the children of men until there is some approach to resemblance in their various lots for the lot determines the man . 
The house was filled with women of her own kind . 
They were allowed all privileges . 
There was neither bath nor stationary washstand , but the landlady supplied tin tubs on request . 
Oh , Mr. Palmer's recommendation , said she I'll give you two days to pay . 
My terms are in advance . 
But Mr. Palmer's a dear friend of mine . 
She was a short woman with a monstrous bust and almost no hips . 
Her second chin lay upon her bosom in a soft swollen bag that seemed to be suspended from her ears . 
Her eyes were hard and evil , of a brownish gray . 
She affected suavity and elaborate politeness but if the least thing disturbed her , she became red and coarse of voice and vile of language . 
They said she stayed on in business to avoid lonesomeness and to keep in touch with all that was going on in the life that had been hers from girlhood . 
And she's a mixer , said Maud to Susan . 
In response to Susan's look of inquiry , she went on to explain , A mixer's a white woman that keeps a colored man . 
Maud laughed at Susan's expression of horror . 
You are a greenie , she mocked . 
Why , it's all the rage . 
No , I'm not lying . 
I don't do it at least , not yet . 
I may get round to it . 
He had told her to go to work that very Sunday evening , and Jim had ordered Maud to call for her and to initiate her . 
And at half past seven Maud came . 
At once she inspected Susan's swollen face . 
Might be a bit worse , she said . 
With a veil on , no one'd notice it . 
But I haven't a veil , said Susan . 
I've got mine with me pinned to my garter . 
I haven't been home since this afternoon . 
But I can't wear a veil at night , objected Susan . 
Why not ? said Maud . 
Lots of the girls do . 
A veil's a dandy hider . 
Besides , even where a girl's got nothing to hide and has a face that's all to the good , still it's not a bad idea to wear a veil . 
Men like what they can't see . 
One of the ugliest girls I know makes a lot of money all with her veil . 
She fixes up her figure something grand . 
Then she puts on that veil one of the kind you think you can see a face through but you really can't . 
And she never lifts it till the come on' has given up his cash . 
Gee , but she has had some hot run ins after she hoists her curtain ! Why don't you wear a veil all the time ? asked Susan . 
What do you take me for ? I've got too good an opinion of my looks for that . 
Susan put on the veil . 
It was not of the kind that is a disguise . 
Still , diaphanous though it seemed , it concealed astonishingly the swelling in Susan's face . 
Obviously , then , it must at least haze the features , would do something toward blurring the marks that go to make identity . 
I shall always wear a veil , said Susan . 
Oh , I don't know , deprecated Maud . 
I think you're quite pretty though a little too proper and serious looking to suit some tastes . 
Susan had removed veil and hat , was letting down her hair . 
What are you doing that for ? cried Maud impatiently . 
We're late now and I don't like the way my hair's done , cried Susan . 
Why , it was all right real swell good as a hairdresser could have done . 
But Susan went on at her task . 
Ever since she came East she had worn it in a braid looped at the back of her head . 
She proceeded to change this radically . 
With Maud forgetting to be impatient in admiration of her swift fingers she made a coiffure much more elaborate wide waves out from her temples and a big round loose knot behind . 
She was well content with the result especially when she got the veil on again and it was assisting in the change . 
What do you think ? she said to Maud when she was ready . 
My , but you look different ! exclaimed Maud . 
A lot dressier and sportier . 
That's it Broadway , said Susan . 
She had always avoided looking like Broadway . 
Now , she would take the opposite tack . 
Not loud toilets for they would defeat her purpose . 
Not loud but just common . 
But , added Maud , you do look swell about the feet . 
Where do you get your shoes ? No , I guess it's the feet . 
As they sallied forth Maud said , First , I'll show you our hotel . 
And they went to a Raines Law hotel in Forty second Street near Eighth Avenue . 
The proprietor's a heeler of Finnegan's . 
I guess Freddie comes in for some rake off . 
He gives us twenty five cents of every dollar the man spends , explained she . 
And if the man opens wine we get two dollars on every bottle . 
The best way is to stay behind when the man goes and collect right away . 
That avoids rows though they'd hardly dare cheat you , being as you're on Freddie's staff . 
Freddie's got a big pull . 
He's way up at the top . 
I wish to God I had him instead of Jim . 
They say he's got some things a lot better'n this now , and that he's likely to quit this and turn respectable . 
You ought to treat me mighty white , seeing what I done for you . 
I've put you in right and that's everything in this here life . 
Susan looked all round looked along the streets stretching away with their morning suggestion of freedom to fly , freedom to escape helpless ! Can't I get a drink ? asked she . 
There was a strained look in her eyes , a significant nervousness of the lips and hands . 
I must have a drink . 
Max has been on a vacation , but I hear he's back . 
When I introduce you , he'll probably set 'em up . 
But I wouldn't drink if I were you till I went off duty . 
I must have a drink , replied Susan . 
I used to have a fine sucker gave me a hundred a week and paid my flat rent . 
But I had nothing else to do , so I took to drinking , and I got so reckless that I let him catch me with my lover that time . 
But I had to have somebOdy to spend the money on . 
Anyhow , it's no fun having a John . 
A John ? said Susan . 
What's that ? You are an innocent ! laughed Maud . 
A John's a sucker a fellow that keeps a girl . 
Well , it'd be no fun to have a John unless you fooled him would it ? They now entered the side door of the hotel and ascended the stairs . 
Hello , Max , said Maud in a fresh , condescending way . 
How goes it with you , Maudie ? So so . 
I manage to pick up a living in spite of the damn chippies . 
I don't see why the hell they don't go into the business regular and make something out of it , instead of loving free . 
I'm down on a girl that's neither the one thing nor the other . 
This is my lady friend , Miss Queenie . 
She turned laughingly to Susan . 
I never asked your last name . 
My , what a strange name ! cried Maud . 
The responding waiter departed with orders for a whiskey and two lithias . 
Maud explained to Susan Max used to be a prize fighter . 
I've been a lot of things in my days , said Max with pride . 
So I've heard , joked Maud . 
They say they've got your picture at headquarters . 
That's neither here nor there , said Max surlily . 
Susan drank her whiskey as soon as it came , and the glow rushed to her ghastly face . 
Said Max with great politeness You're having a little neuralgia , ain't you ? I see your face is swhole some . 
Susan herself had ceased to brood over the incident . 
In conventional lives , visited but rarely by perilous storms , by disaster , such an event would be what is called concise . 
Nevertheless , they do with the result that we find the puny mud lark criticizing the eagle battling with the hurricane . 
When Susan and Maud were in the street again , Susan declared that she must have another drink . 
I can't offer to pay for one for you , said she to Maud . 
And I must spend what I've got for whiskey before I can can start in . 
Maud began to laugh , looked at Susan , and was almost crying instead . 
I can lend you a fiver , she said . 
Life's hell ain't it ? My father used to have a good business tobacco . 
The trust took it away from him and then he drank and mother , she drank , too . 
And one day he beat her so she died and he ran away . 
Oh , it's all awful ! But I've stopped caring . 
I'm stuck on Jim and another little fellow he don't know about . 
For God's sake don't tell him or he'd have me pinched for doing business free . 
I get full every night and raise old Nick . 
I've tried to kill him twice when I was loaded . 
But a girl's got to have a backer with a pull . 
And Jim lets me keep a bigger share of what I make than some fellows . 
Maud went on to disclose that Jim usually let her have all she made above thirty dollars a week , and in hard weeks had sometimes let her beg off with fifteen . 
Said she I can generally count on about fifteen or twenty for myself . 
Us girls that has backers make a lot more money than the girls that hasn't . 
They're always getting pinched too though they're careful never to speak first to a man . 
We can go right up and brace men with the cops looking on . 
A cop that'd touch us would get broke unless we got too gay or robbed somebody with a pull . 
But none of our class of girls do any robbing . 
You get caught sooner or later , and then you're down and out . 
While Susan was having two more drinks Maud talked about Freddie . 
She seemed to know little about him , though he was evidently one of the conspicuous figures . 
These gangs were thieves , blackmailers , kidnapers of young girls for houses of prostitution , repeaters . 
Most of them graduated into habitual jailbirds , a few the cleverest became saloon keepers and politicians and high class professional gamblers and race track men . 
He was a great reader , said Maud , and had taken courses at some college . 
They say he and his gang used to kill somebody nearly every night . 
Anyhow , Freddie got next to Finnegan he's worth several millions that he made out of policy shops and poolrooms , and contracts and such political things . 
So he's in right and he's got the brains . 
He's a good one for working out schemes for making people work hard and bring him their money . 
And everybody's afraid of him because he won't stop at nothing and is too slick to get caught . 
Maud broke off abruptly and rose , warned by the glazed look in Susan's eyes . 
Susan was so far gone that she had difficulty in not staggering and did not dare speak lest her uncertain tongue should betray her . 
Want to go have a good time , sweetheart ? said Maud to the man . 
He was well dressed , middle aged , with a full beard and spectacles , looked as if he might be a banker , or perhaps a professor in some college . 
How much ? asked he . 
Five for a little while . 
Take me or my lady friend . 
How much for both of you ? Ten . 
Take us both , dearie . 
I know a hotel where it'd be all right . 
No. I guess I'll take your lady friend . 
He had been peering at Susan through his glasses . 
And if she treats me well , I'll take her again . 
You're sure you're all right ? I'm a married man . 
We've both been home visiting for a month , and walking the chalk . 
My , but ma's strict ! We got back tonight , said Maud glibly . 
I'll be chasing up and down here , waiting . 
In a lower tone Get through with him quick . 
Strike him for five more after you get the first five . 
When Susan came slinking through the office of the hotel in the wake of the man two hours later , Maud sprang from the little parlor . 
How much did you get ? she asked in an undertone . 
Susan looked nervously at the back of the man who was descending the stairway to the street . 
He said he'd pay me next time , she said . 
I didn't know what to do . 
He was polite and Maud seized her by the arm . 
Come along ! she cried . 
As she passed the desk she said to the clerk , A dirty bilker ! Tryin' to kiss his way out ! Give him hell , said the clerk . 
Maud , still gripping Susan , overtook the man at the sidewalk . 
What do you mean by not paying my lady friend ? she shouted . 
Get out ! said the man in a low tone , with an uneasy glance round . 
If you annoy me I'll call the police . 
And she planted herself squarely before him . 
Susan drew back into the shadow of the wall . 
Up stepped Max , who happened to be standing outside his place . 
What's the row about ? he demanded . 
These women are trying to blackmail me , said the man , sidling away . 
Maud seized him by the arm . 
Will you cough up or shall I scream ? she cried . 
Stand out of the way , girls , said Max savagely , and let me take a crack at the . 
The man dived into his pocket , produced a bill , thrust it toward Susan . 
Maud saw that it was a five . 
That's only five , she cried . 
Where's the other five ? Five was the bargain , whined the man . 
Do you want me to push in your blinkers , you damned old bilk , you ? cried Max , seizing him violently by the arm . 
The man visited his pocket again , found another five , extended the two . 
Now , clear out ! said Max . 
I hate to let you go without a swift kick in the pants . 
Maud pressed the money on Susan and thanked Max . 
Said Max , Don't forget to tell Freddie what I done for his girl . 
She'll tell him , all right , Maud assured him . 
As the girls went east through Forty second Street , Susan said , I'm afraid that man'll lay for us . 
Lay for us , laughed Maud . 
He'll run like a cat afire if he ever sights us again . 
I feel queer and faint , said Susan . 
I must have a drink . 
Well I'll go with you . 
But I've got to get busy . 
I want a couple of days off this week for my little fellow , so I must hustle . 
You let that dirty dog keep you too long . 
Half an hour's plenty enough . 
Always make 'em cough up in advance , then hustle 'em through . 
And don't listen to their guff about wanting to see you again if you treat 'em right . 
They went into a restaurant bar near Broadway . 
Susan took two drinks of whiskey raw in rapid succession Maud took one drink a green mint with ice . 
While you was fooling away time with that thief , said she , I had two men got five from one , three from the other . 
The five dollar man took a three dollar room that was seventy five for me . 
The three dollar man wouldn't stand for more than a dollar room so I got only a quarter there . 
But he set 'em up to two rounds of drinks a quarter more for me . 
So I cleared nine twenty five . 
And you'd 'a' got only your twenty five cents commission on the room if it hadn't been for me . 
You forgot to collect your commission . 
Well , you can get it next time . 
Only I wouldn't ask for it , Max was so nice in helping out . 
He'll give you the quarter . 
When Susan had taken her second stiff drink , her eyes were sparkling and she was laughing recklessly . 
I want a cigarette , she said . 
You feel bully , don't you ? I'm ready for anything , declared she giddily . 
I don't give a damn . 
I don't give a damn ! I used to hate the men I went up with , said Maud , but now I hardly look at their faces . 
You'll soon be that way . 
Then you'll only drink for fun . 
Drink and dope they are about the only fun we have them and caring about some fellow . 
How many girls has Freddie got ? Search me . 
Not many that he'd speak to himself . 
Jim's his wardman does his collecting for him . 
Freddie's above most of the men in this business . 
The others are about like Jim tough straight through , but Freddie's a kind of a pullman . 
The other men even Jim hate him for being such a snare and being able to hide it that he's in such a low business . 
They'd have done him up long ago , if they could . 
But he's to wise for them . 
That's why they have to do what he says . 
I tell you , you're in right , for sure . 
You'll have Freddie eating out of your hand , if you play a cool hand . 
Susan ordered another drink and a package of Egyptian cigarettes . 
They don't allow ladies to smoke in here , said Maud . 
We'll go to the washroom . 
And in the washroom they took a few hasty puffs before sallying forth again . 
Maud explained that , except out of towners , the married men were the chief support of their profession and most of the cornhuskers are married men , too . 
But Susan had the novice's luck . 
When she and Maud met Maud's little gentleman friend Harry Tucker at midnight and went to Considine's for supper , Susan had taken in presents and commissions twenty nine dollars and a half . 
Maud had not done so badly , herself her net receipts were twenty two fifty . 
She would not let Susan pay any part of the supper bill , but gave Harry the necessary money . 
Here's a five , said she , pressing the bill into his hand , and keep the change . 
And she looked at him with loving eyes of longing . 
He was a pretty , common looking fellow , a mere boy , who clerked in a haberdashery in the neighborhood . 
When she picked him up , he like most of his fellow clerks had no decent clothing but the suit he had to have to make a front at the store . 
Maud had outfitted him from the skin with the cheap but showy stuff exhibited for just such purposes in the Broadway windows . 
She explained confidentially to Susan It makes me sort of feel that I own him . 
Then , too , in love there oughtn't to be any money . 
If he paid , I'd be as cold to him as I am to the rest . 
The only reason I like Jim at all is I like a good beating once in a while . 
Jim he treats me like the dirt under his feet . 
And that's what we are dirt under the men's feet . 
Every woman knows it , when it comes to a showdown between her and a man . 
As my pop used to say , the world was made for men , not for women . 
Still , our graft ain't so bum , at that if we work it right . 
Freddie called on Susan about noon the next day . 
She was still in bed . 
He was dressed in the extreme of fashion , was wearing a chinchilla lined coat . 
He looked the idle , sportively inclined son of some rich man in the Fifth Avenue district . 
He stood watching Susan with a peculiar expression one he might perhaps have found it hard to define himself . 
He bent over her and carelessly brushed her ear with his lips . 
How did your royal highness make out ? inquired he . 
The money's in the top bureau drawer , replied she , the covers up to her eyes and her eyes closed . 
He went to the bureau , opened the drawer , with his gloved hands counted the money . 
As he counted his eyes had a look in them that was strangely like jealous rage . 
He kept his back toward her for some time after he had crossed to look at the money . 
When he spoke it was to say Not bad . 
And when you get dressed up a bit and lose your stage fright , you'll do a smashing business . 
I'll not take my share of this . 
I had a good run with the cards last night . 
Anyhow , you've got to pay your rent and buy some clothes . 
I've got to invest something in my new property . 
You'll get busy again tonight , of course . 
Never lay off , lady , unless the weather's bad . 
He sat on the bed and pulled the covers away from her face . 
What are you so grouchy about , pet ? he inquired , chucking her under the chin . 
Too much booze , I'll bet . 
Well , sleep your grouch off . 
I've got a date with Finnegan . 
The election's coming on , and I have to work lining up the vote and getting the repeaters ready . 
It all means good money for me . 
Look out about the booze , lady . 
It'll float you into trouble trouble with me , I mean . 
And he patted her bare shoulders , laughed gently , went to the door . 
He paused there , struggled with an impulse to turn departed . 
VII BUT she did not look out about the booze . 
Each morning she awoke in a state of depression so horrible that she wondered why she could not bring herself to plan suicide . 
Why was it ? Her marriage ? Yes and she paid it its customary tribute of a shudder . 
Yes , her marriage had made all things thereafter possible . 
One evening the man she was with a good looking and unusually interesting young chap suddenly said What a heart action you have got ! Let me listen to that again . 
Is it all wrong ? asked Susan , as he pressed his ear against her chest . 
You ask that as if you rather hoped it was . 
I do and I don't . 
Well , said he , after listening for a third time , you'll never die of heart trouble . 
I never heard a heart with such a grand action like a big , powerful pump , built to last forever . 
You're never ill , are you ? Not thus far . 
And you'll have a hard time making yourself ill . 
Health ? Why , your health must be perfect . 
And he proceeded to thump and press upon her chest with an expertness that proclaimed the student of medicine . 
He was all interest and enthusiasm , took a pencil and , spreading a sheet upon her chest over her heart , drew its outlines . 
What is it ? asked Susan . 
The young man drew a second and much smaller heart within the outline of hers . 
This , he explained , is about the size of an ordinary heart . 
You can see for yourself that yours is fully one fourth bigger than the normal . 
What of it ? said Susan . 
Why , health and strength and vitality courage hope all one fourth above the ordinary allowance . 
Yes , more than a fourth . 
You ought to live long , stay young until you're very old and get pretty much anything you please . 
You don't belong to this life . 
Some accident , I guess . 
Every once in a while I run across a case something like yours . 
You'll go back where you belong . 
This is a dip , not a drop . 
You sound like a fortune teller . 
But in truth she had never in all her life heard words that thrilled her so , that heartened her so . 
And what that kind says comes true , barring accidents . 
As you're not ignorant and careless this life of yours isn't physiologically bad . 
They're always stuffing , and rumping it . 
They never move if they can help . 
No , nothing can stop you but death unless you're far less intelligent than you look . 
Oh , yes death and one other thing . 
And he looked shrewdly at her . 
There is a stage in a drinking career when the man or the woman becomes depraved and ugly as soon as the liquor takes effect . 
But she was far from this advanced stage . 
Her disposition was , if anything , more sweet and generous when she was under the influence of liquor . 
By observation and practice she was soon able to measure the exact amount of liquor that was necessary to produce the proper state of intoxication at the hour for going on duty . 
That gayety of hers was of the surface only . 
Behind it her real self remained indifferent or somber or sardonic , according to her mood of the day . 
The present a waking dream . 
And drink is peculiarly fitted to bring out this perverse quality drink that blurs all the conventionalities , even those built up into moral ideas by centuries and ages of unbroken custom . 
Still , it is doubtful if , without drink to help her , a girl of Susan's intelligence and temperament would have been apt to endure . 
She would probably have chosen the alternative death . 
And only the few survive who have perfect health and abounding vitality . 
Susan's iron strength enabled her to live but it was drink that enabled her to endure . 
Beyond question one of the greatest blessings that could now be conferred upon the race would be to cure it of the drink evil . 
In her affliction Susan at least saw only those affected like herself and that helped not a little , helped the whiskey to confuse and distort her outlook upon life . 
The old Cartesian formula I think , therefore I am would come nearer to expressing a truth , were it reversed I am , therefore I think . 
Our characters are compressed , and our thoughts bent by our environment . 
And most of us are unconscious of our slavery because our environment remains unchanged from birth until death , and so seems the whole universe to us . 
Whether it was something in her character , whether it was not rather due to superiority of breeding and intelligence , would be difficult to say . 
However , there was the different look that irritated many of the other girls , interfered with her business and made her feel a hypocrite . 
She heard so much about the paleness of her lips that she decided to end that comment by using paint the durable kind Ida had recommended . 
When her lips flamed carmine , a strange and striking effect resulted . 
It was not long before Susan would have as soon thought of issuing forth with her body uncovered as with her lips unrouged . 
She turned away from men who sought her a second time . 
She was difficult to find , she went on duty only enough days each week to earn a low average of what was expected from the girls by their protectors . 
Yet she got many unexpected presents and so had money to lend to the other girls , who soon learned how easy she was . 
Maud , sometimes at her own prompting , sometimes prompted by Jim , who was prompted by Freddie warned her every few days that she was skating on the thinnest of ice . 
But she went her way . 
I must drink , said Susan . 
You must stop drink , retorted he , amiable in his terrible way . 
If you don't , I'll have you pinched and sent up . 
That'll bring you to your senses . 
I must drink , said Susan . 
Then I must have you pinched , said he with his mocking laugh . 
Don't be a fool , he went on . 
You can make money enough to soon buy the right sort of clothes so that I can afford to be seen with you . 
I'd like to take you out once in a while and give you a swell time . 
But what'd we look like together with you in those cheap things out of bargain troughs ? Not that you don't look well for you do . 
But the rest of you isn't up to your feet and to the look in your face . 
The whole thing's got to be right before a lady can sit opposite me in Murray's or Rector's . 
All I ask is to be let alone , said Susan . 
That isn't playing square and you've got to play square . 
What I want is to set you up in a nice parlor trade chaps from the college and the swell clubs and hotels . 
But I can't do anything for you as long as you drink this way . 
You'll have to stay on the streets . 
That's where I want to stay . 
Well , there's something to be said for the streets , Freddie admitted . 
Still , even in the street you ought to make a hundred , easy and not go with any man that doesn't suit you . 
Any man that doesn't suit me , said Susan . 
And , after a pause , she said it again Any man that doesn't suit me . 
The young man , with his shrewdness of the street graduate and his sensitiveness of the Italian , gave her an understanding glance . 
You look as if you couldn't decide whether to laugh or cry . 
I'd try to laugh if I was you . 
She had laughed as he spoke . 
That sounded good to me . 
Don't take yourself so seriously . 
After all , what are you doing ? Why , learning to live like a man . 
She found this new point of view interesting and true , too . 
Like a man like all men , except possibly a few not enough exceptions to change the rule . 
Like a man getting herself hardened up to the point where she could take part in the cruel struggle on equal terms with the men . 
It wasn't their difference of body any more than it was their difference of dress that handicapped women it was the idea behind skirt and sex and she was getting rid of that . 
The theory was admirable but it helped her not at all in practice . 
She did not go again to the opium joint , and she resisted the nightly offers of girls and their gentlemen friends to try cocaine in its various forms . 
Dope , she saw , was the medicine of despair . 
And she was far from despair . 
Had she not youth ? Had she not health and intelligence and good looks ? Some day she would have finished her apprenticeship . 
Then the career ! Freddie let her alone for nearly a month , though she was earning less than fifty dollars a week which meant only thirty for him . 
Graft is one of those general words that mean everything and nothing . 
So why not draw it at anything the other fellow does to make money . 
In adopting this simple rule , we not only preserve the moralities from destruction but also establish our own virtue and the other fellow's villainy . 
Truly , never is the human race so delightfully , so unconsciously , amusing as when it discusses right and wrong . 
When she saw Freddie again , he was far from sober . 
He showed it by his way of beginning . 
Said he I've got to hand you a line of rough talk , Queenie . 
I took on this jag for your especial benefit , said he . 
I'm a fool about you and you take advantage of it . 
That's bad for both of us . 
You're drinking as much as ever ? More , replied she . 
It takes more and more . 
How can you expect to get on ? cried he , exasperated . 
As I told you , I couldn't make a cent if I didn't drink . 
Freddie stared moodily at her , then at the floor they were in her room . 
Finally he said You get the best class of men . 
I put my swell friends on to where you go slipping by , up and down in the shadow and it's all they can do to find you . 
The best class of men men all the swell respectable girls in town are crazy to hook up with those of 'em that ain't married already . 
If you're good enough for those chaps they ought to be good enough for you . 
What am I to do about it ? She was silent . 
I want you to promise me you'll take a brace . 
You won't promise ? No because I don't intend to . 
I'm doing the best I can . 
You think I'm a good thing . 
You think I'll take anything off you , because I'm stuck on you and appreciate that you ain't on the same level with the rest of these heifers . 
Well I'll not let any woman con me . 
And I'll make you realize that you're not square with me . 
I'll let you get a taste of life as it is when a girl hasn't got a friend with a pull . 
As you please , said Susan indifferently . 
I don't in the least care what happens to me . 
We'll see about that , cried he , enraged . 
I'll give you a week to brace up in . 
The look he shot at her by way of finish to his sentence was menacing enough . 
But she was not disturbed these signs of anger tended to confirm her in her sense of security from him . 
For it was wholly unlike the Freddie Palmer the rest of the world knew , to act in this irresolute and stormy way . 
A week passed , during which she did not see him . 
But she heard that he was losing on both the cards and the horses and was drinking wildly . 
Come along , said he roughly . 
I've got to clear the streets of some of these tarts . 
It's got so decent people can't move without falling over 'em . 
And this nervousness had latterly been increased to terror by what she had learned from her fellow outcasts the hideous tales of oppression , of robbery , of bodily and moral degradation . 
But all this terror had been purely fanciful , as any emotion not of experience proves to be when experience evokes the reality . 
When her senses returned she was in a cell , lying on a wooden bench . 
She fainted again when they led her out to put her in the wagon . 
She fainted a third time when she heard her name Queenie Brown bellowed out by the court officer . 
They shook her into consciousness , led her to the court room . 
She was conscious of a stifling heat , of a curious crowd staring at her with eyes which seemed to bore red hot holes into her flesh . 
As she stood before the judge , with head limp upon her bosom , she heard in her ear a rough voice bawling , You're discharged . 
The judge says don't come here again . 
And she was pushed through an iron gate . 
She walked unsteadily up the aisle , between two masses of those burning eyed human monsters . 
She felt the cold outside air like a vast drench of icy water flung upon her . 
If it had been raining , she might have gone toward the river . 
But than sic that day New York had never been more radiantly the City of the Sun . 
How she got home she never knew , but late in the afternoon she realized that she was in her own room . 
Hour after hour she lay upon the bed , body and mind inert . 
Helpless no escape no courage to live yet no wish to die . 
How much longer would it last ? Surely the waking from this dream must come soon . 
About noon the next day Freddie came . 
I let you off easy , said he , sitting on the bed upon which she was lying dressed as when she came in the day before . 
Have you been drinking again ? No , she muttered . 
Next time , a week on the Island . 
Did you hear ? Yes . 
Don't turn me against you . 
I'd hate to have to make an awful example of you . 
I must drink , she repeated in the same stolid way . 
He abruptly but without shock lifted her to a sitting position . 
His arm held her body up her head was thrown back and her face was looking calmly at him . 
She realized that he had been drinking drinking hard . 
Her eyes met his terrible eyes without flinching . 
He kissed her full upon the lips . 
With her open palm she struck him across the cheek , bringing the red fierily to its smooth fair surface . 
The devil leaped into his eyes , the devil of cruelty and lust . 
He smiled softly and wickedly . 
I see you've forgotten the lesson I gave you three months ago . 
You've got to be taught to be afraid all over again . 
I am not afraid , said she . 
You can't make me afraid . 
We'll see , murmured he . 
And his fingers began to caress her round smooth throat . 
If you ever strike me again , she said quietly , I'll kill you . 
His eyes flinched for an instant long enough to let her know his innermost secret . 
I want you I want you damn you , he said , between his clinched teeth . 
You're the first one I couldn't get . 
There's something in you I can't get ! That's me , she replied . 
You hate me , don't you ? No. Then you love me ? No. I care nothing about you . 
He let her drop back to the bed , went to the window , stood looking out moodily . 
After a while he said without turning My mother kept a book shop on the lower East Side . 
She brought me up at home . 
At home ! And he laughed sardonically . 
She hated me because I looked like my father . 
Silence , then he spoke again You've never been to my flat . 
I've got a swell place . 
I want to cut out this part of the game . 
I can get along without it . 
You're going to move in with me , and stop this street business . 
You can have everything you want . 
I prefer to keep on as I am . 
What's the difference ? Aren't you mine whenever I want you ? I prefer to be free . 
Free ! Why , you're not free . 
Can't I send you to the Island any time I feel like it just as I can the other girls ? Yes you can do that . 
But I'm free , all the same . 
No more than the other girls . 
What do you mean ? Unless you understand , I couldn't make you see it , she said . 
She was sitting on the edge of the bed , doing up her hair , which had partly fallen down . 
I think you do understand . 
What in the hell do you want , anyhow ? he demanded . 
If I knew do you suppose I'd be here ? He watched her with baffled , longing eyes . 
And to one or another of these patterns life fits each of us as we grow up . 
Not one in ten thousand glances into human faces is arrested because it has lit upon a personality that cannot be immediately located , measured , accounted for . 
We have not the courage to be ourselves , even where there is anything in us that might be developed into something distinctive enough to win us the rank of real identity . 
But now there was beginning to show in her a radical difference from the rest of the crowd pouring through the streets of the city . 
It made the quicker observers in the passing throng turn the head for a second and wondering glance . 
Most of them assumed they had been stirred by her superiority of face and figure . 
But striking faces and figures of the various comely types are frequent in the streets of New York and of several other American cities . 
This expression was as evident in her mouth as in her eyes , in her profile as in her full face . 
In his eyes was a ferocious desire to seize her and again try to conquer and to possess . 
She had become almost unconscious of his presence . 
He startled her by suddenly crying , Oh , you go to hell ! and flinging from the room , crashing the door shut behind him . 
Maud had grown tired of the haberdasher's clerk and his presumptions upon her frank fondness which he wholly misunderstood . 
She had dropped him for a rough looking waiter singer in a basement drinking place . 
This woman , older and harder than most of the girls , though of quiet and refined appearance and manner , was rapidly dragging Maud down . 
Also , Maud's looks were going because she ate irregularly all kinds of trash , and late every night ate herself full to bursting and drank herself drunk to stupefaction . 
Susan's first horror of the men she met men of all classes was rapidly modified into an inconsistent , therefore characteristically human , mingling of horror and tolerance . 
Nobody , nothing , was either good or bad , but all veered like weathercocks in the shifting wind . 
For instance , there was the handsome , well educated , well mannered young prize fighter , Ned Ballou , who was Estelle's friend . 
He had educated himself marvelously well . 
He told how he always tried to rattle his opponent by talking to him , by pouring out in an undertone a stream of gibes , jeers , insults . 
Joe Geary knew that he must win this fight or drop into the working or the criminal class . 
And Terry , insane with grief and fury , fought wild and Joe became a champion . 
As she listened Susan grew cold with horror and with hate . 
Estelle said Tell the rest of it , Joe . 
Oh , that was nothing , replied he . 
When he strolled away to talk with some friends Estelle told the rest that was nothing . 
He was caught , did a year on the Island before his pull could get him out . 
And all the time he was in the pen he so arranged it with his friends that the invalid Terry and his invalid wife did not suffer . 
It was an extreme case of the moral chaos about her the chaos she had begun to discover when she caught her aunt and Ruth conspiring to take Sam away from her . 
They dined at about the only good restaurant where unescorted women were served after nightfall . 
Afterward they went on duty . 
For more than a week there had been a steady downpour of snow , sleet and finally rain . 
Thus , the women of the streets had been doing almost no business . 
On this first night of business weather in nearly two weeks the streets were crowded with women and girls . 
They were desperately hard up and they made open dashes for every man they could get at . 
Not tearful appeals , not appeals to sympathy or even to charity , but to passion . 
They sought in every way to excite . 
They exhibited their carefully gotten up legs they made indecent gestures they said the vilest things they offered the vilest inducements they lowered their prices down and down . 
Too many out tonight , said Maud as they walked their beat Forty second between Broadway and Eighth Avenue . 
I knew it would be this way . 
Let's go in here and get warm . 
Susan and Maud sat at a table in a corner Maud broke her rule and drank whiskey with Susan . 
After they had taken perhaps half a dozen drinks , Maud grew really confidential . 
I'm going to tell you something , she now said to Susan . 
You must promise not to give me away . 
Don't tell me , replied Susan . 
She was used to being flattered or victimized , according to the point of view with confidences . 
She assumed Maud was about to confess some secret about her own self , as she had the almost universal habit of never thinking of anyone else . 
Don't tell me , said she . 
I'm tired of being used to air awful secrets . 
It makes me feel like a tenement wash line . 
This is about you , said Maud . 
If it's ever found out that I put you wise , Jim'll have me killed . 
Susan , reckless by this time , laughed . 
Oh , trash ! she said . 
No trash at all , insisted Maud . 
When you know this town through and through you'll know that murder's something that can be arranged as easy as buying a drink . 
What risk is there in making one of us disappear' ? None in the world . 
I always feel that Jim'll have me killed some day unless I go crazy sometime and kill him . 
Little Maud would go on the grill . 
She ordered and slowly drank another whiskey before she recalled what she had set out to confide . 
By way of a fresh start she said , What do you think of Freddie ? I don't know , replied Susan . 
And it was the truth . 
Her instinctive belief in a modified kind of fatalism made her judgments of people even of those who caused her to suffer singularly free from personal bitterness . 
Freddie , a mere instrument of destiny , had his good side , his human side , she knew . 
He had in him the same quality she felt gestating within herself . 
I don't know what to think , she repeated . 
Maud now burst out I don't care . 
I'm going to put you wise if I die for it . 
I don't want to know . 
But I've got to tell you . 
Do you know what Freddie's going to do ? Susan smiled disdainfully . 
You mustn't tell me when you've been drinking this way Finnegan's police judge is a man named Bennett . 
As soon as Bennett comes back to Jefferson Market Police Court , Freddie's going to have you sent up for three months . 
Susan's glass was on the way to her lips . 
She set it down again . 
The drunken old wreck of an entertainer at the piano in the corner was bellowing out his favorite song I Am the King of the Vikings . 
Susan began to hum the air . 
It's gospel , cried Maud , thinking Susan did not believe her . 
He's a queer one , is Freddie . 
They're all afraid of him . 
You'd think he was a coward , the way he bullies women and that . 
But somehow he ain't not a bit . 
He'll be a big man in the organization some day , they all say . 
He never lets up till he gets square . 
And he thinks you're not square after all he's done for you . 
Perhaps not as he looks at it , said Susan . 
And Jim says he's crazy in love with you , and that he wants to put you where other men can't see you and where maybe he can get over caring about you . 
But then all men are though none quite like Freddie . 
So I'm to go to the Island for three months , said Susan reflectively . 
You don't seem to care . 
It's plain you never was there . 
And you've got to go . 
There's no way out of it unless you skip to another city . 
And if you did you never could come back here . 
Freddie'd see that you got yours as soon as you landed . 
Susan sat looking at her glass . 
Maud watched her in astonishment . 
You're as queer as Freddie , said she at length . 
I never feel as if I was acquainted with you not really . 
I never had a lady friend like that before . 
You don't seem to be a bit excited about what Freddie's going to do . 
Are you in love with him ? Susan lifted strange , smiling eyes to Maud's curious gaze . 
I in love with a man , she said slowly . 
Don't laugh that way , cried Maud . 
It gives me the creeps . 
What are you going to do ? What can I do ? Nothing . 
Then if there's nothing to do , I'll no nothing . 
Go to the Island for three months ? Susan shrugged her shoulders . 
It's too stuffy and smelly in here , said she . 
I promised to meet a gentleman friend here . 
You'll not tell that I tipped you off ? You'd not have told me if you hadn't known I wouldn't . 
But why don't you make it up with Freddie ? I couldn't do that . 
Again Susan's eyes became strange . 
She got as far as the door , came back . 
Thank you for telling me . 
Oh , that's all right , murmured the girl . 
She was embarrassed by Susan's manner . 
She was frightened by Susan's eyes . 
You ain't going to There she halted . 
What ? To jump off ? Kill yourself ? Hardly , said Susan . 
I've got a lot to do before I die . 
I thought you wouldn't slop round in these streets long , said he , as she paused upon the threshold . 
She locked the drawer , tossed the key into an open box of hairpins . 
She moved toward the door . 
Where are you going ? asked he , still staring at the ceiling . 
I've made almost nothing this week . 
I want to talk to you . 
She hesitated , seated herself on a chair near the bed . 
You've been drinking ? Yes . 
I've been drinking myself , but I've got a nose like a hunting dog . 
What do you do it for ? What's the use of explaining ? You'd not understand . 
I'm one fourth Italian and they understand everything . 
You're fond of reading , aren't you ? It passes the time . 
While I was waiting for you I glanced at your new books Emerson Dickens Zola . 
He was looking toward the row of paper backs that filled almost the whole length of the mantel . 
I always like your books . 
You spend nearly as much time reading as I do and you don't need it , for you've got a good education . 
What do you read for ? To amuse yourself ? No. To get away from yourself ? No. Then why ? persisted he . 
To find out about myself . 
He thought a moment , turned his face toward her . 
You are clever ! he said admiringly . 
What's your game ? My game ? What are you aiming for ? You've got too much sense not to be aiming for something . 
She looked at him the expression that marked her as a person peculiar and apart was glowing in her eyes like a bed of red hot coals covered with ashes . 
To get strong , replied she . 
Women are born weak and bred weaker . 
I've got to get over being a woman . 
For there isn't any place in this world for a woman except under the shelter of some man . 
And I don't want that . 
The underlying strength of her features abruptly came into view . 
And I won't have it , she added . 
But the men'll never let you be anything but a woman . 
We'll see , said she , smiling . 
The strong look had vanished into the soft contour of her beautiful youth . 
Personally , I like you better when you've been drinking , he went on . 
You're sad when you're sober . 
As you drink you liven up . 
When I get over being sad if I'm sober , when I learn to take things as they come , just like a man a strong man , then I'll be She stopped . 
Ready for what ? How do I know ? He swung himself to a sitting position . 
Meanwhile , you're coming to live with me . 
I've been fighting against it , but I give up . 
You're the one I've been looking for . 
I'll call a cab and we'll go over to my flat . 
Then we'll go to Rector's and celebrate . 
I'm sorry , but I can't . 
Why not ? I told you . 
There's something in me that won't let me . 
He rose , walked to her very deliberately . 
He took one of her hands from her lap , drew her to her feet , put his hands strongly on her shoulders . 
You belong to me , he said , his lips smiling charmingly , but the devil in the gleam of his eyes and in the glistening of his beautiful , cruel teeth . 
You know that I won't . 
He slowly crushed her in his arms , slowly pressed his lips upon hers . 
A low scream issued from her lips and she seized him by the throat with both hands , one hand over the other , and thrust him backward . 
He clutched at her fingers failing to dislodge them , he tried to thrust his thumbs into her eyes . 
But she seized his right thumb between her teeth and bit into it until they almost met . 
And at the same time her knees ground into his abdomen . 
He choked , gurgled , grew dark red , then gray , then a faint blackish blue , lay limp under her . 
But she did not relax until the blue of his face had deepened to black and his eyes began to bulge from their sockets . 
At those signs that he was beyond doubt unconscious , she cautiously relaxed her fingers . 
She unclenched her teeth his arm , which had been held up by the thumb she was biting , dropped heavily . 
She stood over him , her eyes blazing insanely at him . 
She snatched out her hatpin , flung his coat and waistcoat from over his chest , felt for his heart . 
You fiend ! You fiend ! she sobbed . 
She changed to her plainest dress . 
At Times Square she took the Subway for the Bowery . 
To change one's world , one need not travel far in New York the ocean is not so wide as is the gap between the Tenderloin and the lower East Side . 
VIII SHE had thought of escape daily , hourly almost , for nearly five months . 
She had advanced not an inch toward it but she never for an instant lost hope . 
She was far indeed from the Tenderloin , in a region not visited by the people she knew . 
Freddie would not think of searching for her there and soon he would believe she was dead drowned , and at the bottom of river or bay . 
As she stepped from the exit of the underground , she saw in the square before her , under the Sunset Cox statue , a Salvation Army corps holding a meeting . 
The woman who was preaching had taken the life of the streets as her text . 
Well fed and well clad and certain of a clean room to sleep in certain of a good living , she was painting the moral horrors of the street life . 
The wages of sin is death ! she shouted . 
She caught Susan's eye , saw the cynical bitter smile round her lips . 
Cried the woman , in response to Susan's satirical look You mock at that , my lovely young sister . 
Your lips are painted , and they sneer . 
Speak the truth , sister ! God is watching you . 
The wages of sin is death ! The wages of weakness is death , retorted Susan . 
But the wages of sin well , it's sometimes a house in Fifth Avenue . 
And then she shrank away before the approving laughter of the little crowd and hurried across into Eighth Street . 
In the deep shadow of the front of Cooper Union she paused , as the meaning of her own impulsive words came to her . 
The wages of sin ! And what was sin , the supreme sin , but weakness ? It was exactly as Burlingham had explained . 
He had said that , whether for good or for evil , really to live one must be strong . 
Strong ! What a good teacher he had been one of the rare kind that not only said things interestingly but also said them so that you never forgot . 
How badly she had learned ! She strolled on through Eighth Street , across Third Avenue and into Second Avenue . 
The effects of the liquor she had drunk had worn away . 
In so much wandering she had acquired the habit of closing up an episode of life as a traveler puts behind him the railway journey at its end . 
She was less than half an hour from her life in the Tenderloin it was as completely in her past as it would ever be . 
The cards had once more been shuffled a new deal was on . 
To return to work What was open to her , educated as the comfortable classes educate their women ? Work meant the tenements . 
She loathed the fast life , but not as she loathed vermin infected tenements . 
There were degrees in horror she was paying a hateful price , but not so hateful as she had paid when she worked . 
The wages of shame were not so hard earned as the wages of toil , were larger , brought her many of the things she craved . 
The wages of toil brought her nothing but the right to bare existence in filth and depravity and darkness . 
Also , she felt that if she were tied down to some dull and exhausting employment , she would be settled and done for . 
No , work had nothing to offer her except respectability . 
And what a mocking was respectability , in rags and filth ! Besides , what had she , the outcast born , to do with this respectability ? No not work never again . 
Either she would soar above respectability , or she would remain beneath it . 
But as a sole possession , as a sole ambition , it seemed thin and poor and even pitiful . 
She had emancipated herself from its tyranny she would not resume the yoke . 
Among so many lacks of the good things of life its good would not be missed . 
A new deal ! And a new deal meant at least even chance for good luck . 
There were many women alone , as in every other avenue and every frequented cross street throughout the city women made eager to desperation by the long stretch of impossible weather . 
Every passing man was hailed , sometimes boldly , sometimes softly . 
Again and again that grotesque phrase Let's go have a good time fell upon the ears . 
She was standing before the winter garden from which the sounds came . 
As she opened the door she was greeted by a rush of warm air pleasantly scented with fresh tobacco smoke , the odors of spiced drinks and of food , pastry predominating . 
Some of the tables were covered ready for those who would wish to eat but many of them were for the drinkers . 
The large , low ceilinged room was comfortably filled . 
There were but a few women and they seemed to be wives or sweethearts . 
She chose a table that had several other vacant tables round it . 
On the recommendation of the waiter she ordered a burning devil he assured her she would find it delicious and the very thing for a cold slushy night . 
At the far end of the room on a low platform sat the orchestra . 
A man in an evening suit many sizes too large for him sang in a strong , not disagreeable tenor a German song that drew loud applause at the end of each stanza . 
The burning devil came an almost black mixture in a large heavy glass . 
What shall I do with it ? said Susan . 
Wait till it goes out , said the waiter . 
Then drink , as you would anything else . 
And he was off to attend to the wants of a group of card players a few feet away . 
Susan touched her finger to the glass , when the flame suddenly vanished . 
She found it was not too hot to drink , touched her lips to it . 
The taste , sweetish , suggestive of coffee and of brandy and of burnt sugar , was agreeable . 
She slowly sipped it , delighting in the sensation of warmth , of comfort , of well being that speedily diffused through her . 
The waiter came to receive her thanks for his advice . 
She said to him Do you have women sing , too ? Oh , yes when we can find a good looker with a voice . 
I wonder if I could get a trial ? The waiter was interested at once . 
You sing ? I have sung on the stage . 
He went to the counter near the door where stood a short thick set Jew of the East European snub nosed type in earnest conversation with a seated blonde woman . 
She showed that skill at clinging to youth which among the lower middle and lower classes pretty clearly indicates at least some experience at the fast life . 
For only in the upper and upper middle class does a respectable woman venture thus to advertise so suspicious a guest within as a desire to be agreeable in the sight of men . 
She affected an air of unconsciousness in fact , she was posing as if before a camera . 
Her heart leaped when out of the corner of her eye she saw the proprietor coming with the waiter . 
The two paused at her table , and the proprietor said in a sharp , impatient voice Well , lady what is it ? I want a trial as a singer . 
The proprietor was scanning her features and her figure which was well displayed by the tight fitting jacket . 
The result seemed satisfactory , for in a voice oily with the softening influence of feminine charm upon male , he said You've had experience ? Yes a lot of it . 
But I haven't sung in about two years . 
Sing German ? Only ballads in English . 
But I can learn anything . 
English'll do if you can sing . 
What costume do you wear ? And the proprietor seated himself and motioned the waiter away . 
As I told you , I've not been singing lately . 
We've got one that might fit a short blue silk skirt low neck and blue stockings . 
Slippers too , but they might be tight I forget the number . 
But I've done a great deal of walking . 
I wear a five now . 
Susan thrust out a foot and ankle , for she knew that despite the overshoe they were good to look at . 
The proprietor nodded approvingly and there was the note of personal interest in his voice as he said They can try your voice tomorrow morning . 
If you decide to try me , what pay will I get ? The proprietor smiled slyly . 
Oh , we don't pay anything to the singers . 
That man who sang he gets his board here . 
He works in a factory as a bookkeeper in the daytime . 
Lots of theatrical and musical people come here . 
If a man or a girl can do any stunt worth while , there's a chance . 
I'd have to have something more than board , said Susan . 
The proprietor frowned down at his stubby fingers whose black and cracked nails were drumming on the table . 
Well I might give you a bed . 
There's a place I could put one in my daughter's room . 
She sings and dances over at Louis Blanc's garden in Third Avenue . 
Yes , I could put you there . 
But no privileges , you understand . 
Maybe you'll not want me . 
Oh , yes if you can sing at all . 
Your looks'd please my customers . 
Seeing the dubious expression in Susan's face , he went on , When I say no privilege' I mean only about the room . 
Of course , it's none of my business what you do outside . 
Lots of well fixed gents comes here . 
My girls have all had good luck . 
I've been open two years , and in that time one of my singers got an elegant delicatessen owner to keep her . 
Really , said Susan , in the tone that was plainly expected of her . 
I'd not be surprised if he married her . 
And another married an electrician that cops out forty a week . 
You'll find it a splendid chance to make nice friends good spenders . 
And I'm a practical man . 
I suppose there isn't any work I could do in the daytime ? Not here . 
Perhaps Not nowhere , so far as I know . 
That is , work you'd care to do . 
The factories and stores is hard on a woman , and she don't get much . 
And besides they ain't very classy to my notion . 
But you look like a woman that had been used to something and wanted to get somewhere . 
I wouldn't have let my daughter go into no such low , foolish life . 
She had intended to ask about a place to stop for the night . 
She now decided that the suggestion that she was homeless might possibly impair her chances . 
It had clouded over , and a misty , dismal rain was trickling through the saturated air to add to the messiness of the churn of cold slush . 
Susan went on down Second Avenue . 
She went into the family entrance of the saloon , was alone in a small clean sitting room with a sliding window between it and the bar . 
A tough but not unpleasant young face appeared at the window . 
Evening , cutie , said he . 
What'll you have ? Some rye whiskey , replied Susan . 
May I smoke a cigarette here ? Sure , go as far as you like . 
Ten cent whiskey or fifteen ? Fifteen unless it's out of the same bottle as the ten . 
Call it ten seeing as you are a lady . 
I've got a soft heart for you ladies . 
I've got a wife in the business , myself . 
He had small , shifty eyes , an attractive smile , a manner of assurance bordering on insolence . 
He dropped into a chair at Susan's table with a , You don't mind having a drink on me . 
As Susan had no money to spare , she acquiesced . 
She said to the bartender , I want to get a room here a plain room . 
How much ? Maybe this gent'll help you out , said the bartender with a grin and a wink . 
He's got money to burn and burns it . 
The young man struck a match and held it for her to light the cigarette she took from her purse . 
Then he lit one himself . 
Next time try one of mine , said he . 
I get 'em of a fellow that makes for the swellest uptown houses . 
But I get 'em ten cents a package instead of forty . 
I haven't seen you down here before . 
What a good skin you've got ! It's been a long time since I've seen a skin as fine as that , except on a baby now and then . 
And that shape of yours is all right , too . 
I suppose it's the real goods ? With that he leaned across the table and put his hand upon her bosom . 
You don't give anything for nothing eh ? laughed he . 
Been in the business long ? It seems long . 
It ain't what it used to be . 
The competition's getting to be something fierce . 
Looks as if all the respectable girls and most of the married women were coming out to look for a little extra money . 
Well why not ? Susan shrugged her shoulders . 
Why not ? echoed she carelessly . 
She did not look forward with pleasure to being alone . 
The man was clean and well dressed , and had an unusual amount of personal charm that softened his impertinence of manner . 
Evidently he has the habit of success with women . 
She much preferred him sitting with her to her own depressing society . 
So she accepted his invitation . 
She took one of his cigarettes , and it was as good as he had said . 
He rattled on , mingling frank coarse compliments with talk about the business from a standpoint so practical that she began to suspect he was somehow in it himself . 
Vaguely she wondered without caring to question or guess what particular form of activity this young man had taken in avoiding monotonous work at small pay . 
After her second drink came she found that she did not want it . 
I'm going along with you , said the young man as she rose . 
Here's to our better acquaintance . 
Thanks , but I want to be alone , replied she affably . 
And , not to seem unappreciative of his courtesy , she took a small drink from her glass . 
She glanced suspiciously at the young man . 
Her legs grew suddenly and strangely heavy . 
her heart began to beat violently , and a black fog seemed to be closing in upon her eyes . 
Through it she saw the youth grinning sardonically . 
What a fool I am ! she thought . 
She had been trapped by another form of the slave system . 
This man was a recruiting sergeant for houses of prostitution was one of the cadets . 
They search the tenement districts for good looking girls and young women . 
They hang about the street corners , flirting . 
They attend the balls where go the young people of the lower middle class and upper lower class . 
With a gasp and a sigh her head fell forward and she was unconscious . 
She awakened in a small , rather dingy room . 
She was lying on her back with only stockings on . 
Beyond the foot of the bed was a little bureau at which a man , back full to her , stood in trousers and shirt sleeves tying his necktie . 
She saw that he was a rough looking man , coarsely dressed an artisan or small shop keeper . 
Her head was aching so fiercely that she had not the courage to move . 
Presently the man turned toward her a kindly , bearded face . 
But she was used to the man of general good character who with little shame and no hesitation became beast before her , the free woman . 
Hello , pretty ! cried he , genially . 
Slept off your jag , have you ? He was putting on his coat and waistcoat . 
He took from the waistcoat pocket a dollar bill . 
You're a peach , said he . 
I'll come again , next time my old lady goes off guard . 
He made the bill into a pellet , dropped it on her breast . 
A little present for you . 
Put it in your stocking and don't let the madam grab it . 
With a groan Susan lifted herself to a sitting position , drew the spread about her a gesture of instinct rather than of conscious modesty . 
They drugged me and brought me here , said she . 
I want you to help me get out . 
Good Lord ! cried the man , instantly all a quiver with nervousness . 
I don't want to get mixed up in this . 
And out of the room he bolted , closing the door behind him . 
Susan smiled at herself satirically . 
After all her experience , to make this silly appeal she who knew men ! I must be getting feeble minded , thought she . 
Then Her clothes ! With a glance she swept the little room . 
No closet ! Her own clothes gone ! On the chair beside the bed a fast house parlor dress of pink cotton silk , and a kind of abbreviated chemise . 
The stockings on her legs were not her own , but were of pink cotton , silk finished . 
A pair of pink satin slippers stood on the floor beside the two galvanized iron wash basins . 
The door opened and a burly man , dressed in cheap ready made clothes but with an air of authority and prosperity , was smiling at her . 
The madam told me to walk right in and make myself at home , said he . 
Yes , you're up to her account of you . 
Only she said you were dead drunk and would probably be asleep . 
Now , honey , you treat me right and I'll treat you right . 
Get out of here ! cried Susan . 
I'm going to leave this house . 
They drugged me and brought me here . 
I've got nothing to do with your quarrels with the landlady . 
Cut those fairy tales out . 
You treat me right and A few minutes later in came the madam . 
Susan , exhausted , sick , lay inert in the middle of the bed . 
She fixed her gaze upon the eyes looking through the hideous mask of paint and powder partially concealing the madam's face . 
Well , are you going to be a good girl now ? said the madam . 
I want to sleep , said Susan . 
All right , my dear . 
She saw and snatched the five dollar bill from the pillow . 
It'll go toward paying your board and for the parlor dress . 
God , but you was drunk when they brought you up from the bar ! When was that ? asked Susan . 
We've shut the house for the night . 
You're in a first rate house , my dear , and if you behave yourself , you'll make money a lot more than you ever could at a dive like Zeist's . 
If you don't behave well , we'll teach you how . 
Would you like a nice drink ? No , said Susan . 
As I was saying , ventured the madam , you might as well settle down quietly . 
I'm very well satisfied , said Susan . 
I suppose you'll give me a square deal on what I make . 
She laughed quietly as if secretly amused at something . 
In fact , I know you will , she added in a tone of amused confidence . 
As soon as you've paid up your twenty five a week for room and board and the fifty for the parlor dress Susan interrupted her with a laugh . 
Oh , come off , said she . 
I'll not stand for that . 
I'll go back to Jim Finnegan . 
The old woman's eyes pounced for her face instantly . 
Do you know Finnegan ? I'm his girl , said Susan carelessly . 
She stretched herself and yawned . 
I got mad at him and started out for some fun . 
He's a regular damn fool about me . 
But I'm sick of him . 
Anything but a jealous man ! And spied on everywhere I go . 
How much can I make here ? Ain't you from Zeist's ? demanded the madam . 
Her voice was quivering with fright . 
She did not dare believe the girl she did not dare disbelieve her . 
Zeist's ? What's that ? said Susan indifferently . 
The joint two blocks down . 
Hasn't Joe Bishop had you in there for a couple of months ? Susan yawned . 
Lord , how my head does ache ! Who's Joe Bishop ? I'm dead to the world . 
I must have had an awful jag ! She turned on her side , drew the spread over her . 
So long ! Didn't you run away from home with Joe Bishop ? demanded the madam shrilly . 
And didn't he put you to work for Zeist ? Who's Joe Bishop ? Where's Zeist's ? Susan said , cross and yawning . 
I've been with Jim about a year . 
He took me off the street . 
I was broke in five years ago . 
The madam gave a kind of howl . 
And that Joe Bishop got twenty five off me ! she screamed . 
And you're Finnegan's girl , and he'll make trouble for me . 
He's got a nasty streak in him , said Susan , drowsily . 
He put me on the Island once for a little side trip I made . 
But he sent and got me out in two days and gave me a present of a hundred . 
It's funny how a man'll make a fool of himself about a woman . 
No , I won't put out the light , shrieked the madam . 
I'm going to telephone Jim Finnegan to come and get you . 
Susan started up angrily , as if she were half crazed by drink . 
If you do , you old hag , she cried , I'll tell him you doped me and set these men on me . 
I'll tell him about Joe Bishop . 
And Jim'll send the whole bunch of you to the pen . 
I'll not go back to him till I get good and ready . 
And that means , I won't go back at all , no matter what he offers me . 
She began to cry in a maudlin way . 
I'm tired of living as if I was back in the convent . 
The madam stood , heaving to and fro and blowing like a chained elephant . 
I don't know what to do , she whined . 
I wish Joe Bishop was in hell . 
I'm going to get out of here , shrieked Susan , raving and blazing again and waving her arms . 
You don't know a good thing when you get it . 
What kind of a bumjoint is this , anyway ? Where's my clothes ? They must be dry by this time . 
Yes yes they're dry , my dear , whined the madam . 
I'll bring 'em to you . 
And out she waddled , returning in a moment with her arms full of the clothing . 
She found Susan in the bed and nestling comfortably into the pillows . 
Here are your clothes , she cried . 
No I want to sleep , was Susan's answer in a cross , drowsy tone . 
But when he finds me , I'll tell him to go to the devil . 
For God's sake ! wailed the madam . 
I can't let you work here . 
How much'll you give me to go ? she asked . 
Where's the fifteen that was in my stocking ? I've got it for you , said the madam . 
How much did I make tonight ? There was three at five apiece . 
Three ! not only the two , but a third while she lay in a dead stupor . 
Your share's four dollars , continued the madam . 
Is that all ! cried Susan , jeering . 
A bum joint ! Oh , there's my five the man gave me as a present . 
Yes yes , quavered the madam . 
And another man gave me a dollar . 
Where the devil is it ? She found it in a fold of the spread . 
Then you owe me twenty altogether , counting the money I had on me . 
I don't want to go ! she protested , pausing halfway in taking off the second pink stocking . 
Lord , what hell Jim will raise if he finds I spent the night working in this house . 
Why is it that , as soon as men begin to care for a woman , they get prim about her ? Do get dressed , dear , wheedled the madam . 
I don't see why I should go at this time of night , objected Susan pettishly . 
What'll you give me if I go ? The madam uttered a groan . 
You say you paid Joe Bishop twenty five I'll kill him ! shrieked the madam . 
He's ruined me ruined me ! Oh , he's all right , said Susan cheerfully . 
He's a pretty little fellow . 
I'll not give him away to Jim . 
Joe was dead stuck on you , cried the madam eagerly . 
I might 'a' knowed he hadn't seen you before . 
I had to pay him the twenty five right away , to get him out of the house and let me put you to work . 
He wanted to stay on . 
Susan shivered , laughed to hide it . 
Well , I'll go for twenty five . 
Twenty five ! shrieked the madam . 
You'll get it back from Joe . 
He's a dog a dirty dog . 
I think I told Joe about Jim , said Susan reflectively . 
I was awful gabby downstairs . 
And her lowered eyes gleamed with satisfaction when the madam cried out You did ! And after that he brought you here ! He's got it in for me . 
But I'll ruin him ! I'll tear him up ! Susan dressed with the utmost deliberation , the madam urging her to make haste . 
After some argument , Susan yielded to the madam's pleadings and contented herself with the twenty dollars . 
The madam herself escorted Susan down to the outside door and slathered her with sweetness and politeness . 
The rain had stopped again . 
Susan went up Second Avenue slowly . 
Two blocks from the dive from which she had escaped , she sank down on a stoop and fainted . 
IX THE dash of cold rain drops upon her face and the chill of moisture soaking through her clothing revived her . 
Throughout the whole range of life , whenever we resist we suffer . 
As Susan dragged her aching , cold wet body up from that stoop , it seemed to her that each time she resisted the penalty grew heavier . 
Worst ? This must be the worst ! she thought . 
Surely there can be no lower depth than where I am now . 
And then she shuddered and her soul reeled . 
Where am I going ? Why do I not kill myself ? What is it that drives me on and on ? There came no direct answer to that last question . 
At Eighth Street she turned west at Third Avenue she paused , waiting for chance to direct her . 
In the open square , near the Peter Cooper statue , stood a huge all night lunch wagon . 
She moved toward it , for she suddenly felt hungry . 
It was drawn to the curb a short flight of ladder steps led to an interior attractive to sight and smell . 
She halted at the foot of the steps and looked in . 
The only occupant was the man in charge . 
In a white coat he was leaning upon the counter , reading a newspaper which lay flat upon it . 
His bent head was extensively and roughly thatched with black hair so thick that to draw a comb through it would have been all but impossible . 
He looked like a Spaniard or an Italian , but he was a black Irishman , one of the West coasters who recall in their eyes and coloring the wrecking of the Armada . 
Good morning , lady , said he . 
Breakfast or supper ? Both , replied Susan . 
The air was gratefully warm in the little restaurant on wheels . 
The dominant odor was of hot coffee but that aroma was carried to a still higher delight by a suggestion of pastry . 
The best thing I've got , said the restaurant man , is hot corn beef hash . 
It's so good I hate to let any of it go . 
You can have griddle cakes , too and coffee , of course . 
Very well , said Susan . 
She was ascending upon a wave of reaction from the events of the night . 
The rain beating upon the roof seemed musical to her now , in this warm shelter with its certainty of the food she craved . 
She ought to be ashamed of that lack . 
But she was not ashamed . 
She was shedding her troubles like a child or like a philosopher . 
Do you like hash ? inquired the restaurant man over his shoulder . 
Just as you're making it , said she . 
Dry but not too dry . 
Brown but not too brown . 
You don't think you'd like a poached egg on top of it ? Exactly what I want ! It isn't everybody that can poach an egg , said the restaurant man . 
And it isn't every egg that can be poached . 
Now , my eggs are the real thing . 
And I can poach 'em so you'd think they was done with one of them poaching machines . 
I don't have 'em with the yellow on a slab of white . 
I do it so that the white's all round the yellow , like in the shell . 
And I keep 'em tender , too . 
Did you say one egg or a pair ? Two , said Susan . 
The dishes were thick , but clean and whole . 
The coffee , boiled with the milk , was real coffee , too . 
When the restaurant man had set these things before her , as she sat expectant on a stool , he viewed his handiwork with admiring eyes . 
Delmonico couldn't beat it , said he . 
No , nor Oscar , neither . 
That'll take the tired look out of your face , lady , and bring the beauty back . 
Susan ate slowly , listening to the music of the beating rain . 
It was like an oasis , a restful halt between two stretches of desert journey she wished to make it as long as possible . 
She saw the restaurant man's eyes on her , a curious expression in them . 
What's the matter ? she inquired . 
I was thinking , said he , how miserable you must have been to be so happy now . 
Oh , I guess none of us has any too easy a time , said she . 
But it's mighty hard on women . 
I used to think different , before I had bad luck and got down to tending this lunch wagon . 
But now I understand about a lot of things . 
It's all very well for comfortable people to talk about what a man or a woman ought to do and oughtn't to do . 
But let 'em be slammed up against it . 
They'd sing a different song wouldn't they ? Quite different , said Susan . 
The man waved a griddle spoon . 
I tell you , we do what we've got to do . 
Yes the thieves and and all of us . 
Some's used for foundations and some for roofing and some for inside fancy work and some for outside wall . 
And some's used for the rubbish heap . 
They do what they've got to do . 
I was a great hand at worrying what I was going to be used for . 
But I don't bother about it any more . 
He began to pour the griddle cake dough . 
I think I'll get there , though , said he doggedly , as if he expected to be derided for vanity . 
You will , said Susan . 
But I've been being got ready for something . 
They don't chip away at a stone as they have at me without intending to make some use of it . 
No , indeed , said the girl , hope and faith welling up in her own heart . 
And what's more , I've stood the chipping . 
I ain't become rubbish I'm still a good stone . 
That's promising , ain't it ? It's a sure sign , declared Susan . 
Sure for herself , no less than for him . 
The restaurant man took from under the counter several well worn schoolbooks . 
He held them up , looked at Susan and winked . 
Good business eh ? She laughed and nodded . 
He put the books back under the counter , finished the cakes and served them . 
As he gave her more butter he said It ain't the best butter not by a long shot . 
But it's good as good as you get on the average farm or better . 
Did you ever eat the best butter ? I don't know . 
I've had some that was very good . 
Eighty cents a pound ? Mercy , no , exclaimed Susan . 
And the best milk , too . 
Wait till I get money . 
I'll show 'em how to live . 
I was born in a tenement . 
Rags to wear , and food one notch above a garbage barrel . 
I know , said Susan . 
But even as a boy I wanted the high class things . 
It's wanting the best that makes a man push his way up . 
Another customer came a keeper of a butcher shop , on his way to market . 
Susan finished the cakes , paid the forty cents and prepared to depart . 
I'm looking for a hotel , said she to the restaurant man , one where they'll take me in at this time , but one that's safe not a dive . 
Right across the square there's a Salvation Army shelter very good clean . 
I Don't know of any other place for a lady . 
There's a hotel on the next corner , put in the butcher , suspending the violent smacking and sipping which attended his taking rolls and coffee . 
It ain't neither the one thing nor the other . 
It's clean and cheap , and they'll let you behave if you want to . 
That's all I ask , said the girl . 
And she departed , after an exchange of friendly glances with the restaurant man . 
I feel lots better , said she . 
It was a good breakfast , replied he . 
Good luck ! Same to you , lady . 
At the corner the butcher had indicated Susan found the usual Raines Law hotel , adjunct to a saloon and open to all comers , however transient . 
It was a nice little room with barely space enough for a bed , a bureau , a stationary washstand , a chair and a small radiator . 
As she undressed by the light of a sad gray dawn , she examined her dress to see how far it needed repair and how far it might be repaired . 
She had worn away from Forty third Street her cheapest dress because it happened to be of an inconspicuous blue . 
However , as their poverty gives them no choice , their ignorance saves them from futilities of angry discontent . 
Susan had bought this dress because she had to have another dress and could not afford to spend more than twelve dollars , and it had been marked down from twenty five . 
She had worn it in fair weather and had contrived to keep it looking pretty well . 
But this rain had finished it quite . 
If she went into a shop , she would be treated insultingly by the shopgirls , despising her as a poor creature like themselves . 
If a man approached her , he would calculate upon getting her very cheap because a girl in such a costume could not have been in the habit of receiving any great sum . 
And if she went with him , he would treat her with far less consideration than if she had been about the same business in smarter attire . 
She spread the dress on bureau and chair , smoothing it , wiping the mud stains from it . 
She cleaned her boots and overshoes with an old newspaper she found in a drawer , and wet at the washstand . 
She took her hat to pieces and made it over into something that looked almost fresh enough to be new . 
Then , ready for bed , she got the office of the hotel on the telephone and left a call for half past nine o'clock three hours and a half away . 
When she was throwing up the window , she glanced into the street . 
The rain had once more ceased . 
Through the gray dimness the men and women , boys and girls , on the way to the factories and shops for the day's work , were streaming past in funereal procession . 
Some of the young ones were lively . 
But the mass was sullen and dreary . 
Susan lingered , fascinated by this exhibit of the price to the many of civilization for the few . 
Work ? Never ! Not any more than she would . 
If she had stayed on at work from the beginning in Cincinnati , where would she be now ? Living in some stinking tenement hole , with hope dead . 
And how would she be looking ? As dull of eye as the rest , as pasty and mottled of skin , as ready for any chance disease . 
Work ? Never ! Never ! Not at anything that'd degrade me more than this life . 
And she lifted her head defiantly . 
To her hunger Life was thus far offering only a plate of rotten apples it was difficult to choose among them but there was choice . 
She was awakened by the telephone bell and it kept on ringing until she got up and spoke to the office through the sender . 
She dressed in a rush , but not so hurriedly that she failed to make the best toilet the circumstances permitted . 
Her hair went up unusually well the dress did not look so badly as she had feared it would . 
As it's a nasty day , she reflected , it won't do me so much damage . 
My hat and my boots will make them give me the benefit of the doubt and think I'm saving my good clothes . 
She passed through the office at five minutes to ten . 
When she reached Lange's winter garden , its clock said ten minutes past ten , but she knew it must be fast . 
Neither Lange nor his wife had come her original friend , the Austrian waiter , was wiping off tables and cleaning match stands . 
He welcomed her with a smile of delight that showed how few teeth remained in the front of his mouth and how deeply yellow they were . 
But Susan saw only his eyes and the kind heart that looked through them . 
Maybe you haven't had breakfast already ? he suggested . 
I'm not hungry , thank you . 
Perhaps some coffee yes ? Susan thought the coffee would make her feel better . 
She ate one of the rolls , drank the coffee . 
Before she had finished , the waiter stood beaming before her and said A cigarette yes ? Oh , no , replied Susan , a little sadly . 
But yes , urged he . 
It isn't against the rules . 
Many ladies who come here do real ladies . 
It is the custom in Europe . 
Why not ? And he produced a box of cigarettes and put it on the table . 
Susan lit one of them and once more with supreme physical content came a cheerfulness that put color and sprightliness into the flowers of hope . 
And the sun had won its battle with the storm the storm was in retreat . 
Sunshine was streaming in at the windows , into her heart . 
The waiter paused in his work now and then to enjoy himself in contemplating the charming picture she made . 
She was thinking of what the wagon restaurant man had said . 
Yes , Life had been chipping away at her but she had remained good stone , had not become rubbish . 
About half past ten Lange came down from his flat which was overhead . 
He inspected her by daylight and finding that his electric light impressions were not delusion was highly pleased with her . 
He refused to allow her to pay for the coffee . 
Johann ! he called , and the leader of the orchestra approached and made a respectful bow to his employer . 
He had a solemn pompous air and the usual pompadour . 
He and Susan plunged into the music question , found that the only song they both knew was Tosti's Good Bye . 
That'll do to try , said Lange . 
Begin ! And after a little tuning and voice testing , Susan sang the Good Bye with full orchestra accompaniment . 
It was not good it was not even pretty good but it was not bad . 
You'll do all right , said Lange . 
Now , you and Johann fix up some songs and get ready for tonight . 
And he turned away to buy supplies for restaurant and bar . 
Johann , deeply sentimental by nature , was much pleased with Susan's contralto . 
You do not know how to sing , said he . 
You sing in your throat and you've got all the faults of parlor singers . 
But the voice is there and much expressiveness much temperament . 
Also , you have intelligence and that will make a very little voice go a great way . 
They were to try Gipsy Queen that night , with Good Bye and , if the applause should compel , Suwanee River . 
When they were back at the restaurant Susan seated herself in a quiet corner and proceeded to learn the words of the song and to get some notion of the tune . 
She had lunch with Mr. and Mrs. Lange and Katy , whose hair was very golden indeed and whose voice and manner proclaimed the Bowery and its vaudeville stage . 
She began by being grand with Susan , but had far too good a heart and far too sensible a nature to keep up long . 
It takes more vanity , more solemn stupidity and more leisure than plain people have time for , to maintain the force of fake dignity . 
Before lunch was over it was Katy and Lorna and Katy was distressed that her duties at the theater made it impossible for her to stay and help Lorna with the song . 
At the afternoon rehearsal Susan distinguished herself . 
To permit business in the restaurant and the rehearsal at the same time , there was a curtain to divide the big room into two unequal parts . 
When Susan sang her song through for the first time complete , the men smoking and drinking on the other side of the curtain burst into applause . 
Johann shook hands with Susan , shook hands again , kissed her hand , patted her shoulder . 
But in the evening things did not go so well . 
Susan , badly frightened , got away from the orchestra , lagged when it speeded to catch up with her . 
She made a pretty and engaging figure in the costume , low in the neck and ending at the knees . 
Her face and shoulders , her arms and legs , the lines of her slender , rounded body made a success . 
But they barely saved her from being laughed at . 
When she finished , there was no applause so no necessity for an encore . 
She ran upstairs , and , with nerves all a quiver , hid herself in the little room she and Katy were to share . 
Until she failed she did not realize how much she had staked upon this venture . 
But now she knew and it seemed to her that her only future was the streets . 
Again her chance had come again she had thrown it away . 
If there were anything in her anything but mere vain hopes that could not have occurred . 
In her plight anyone with a spark of the divinity that achieves success would have scored . 
I belong in the streets , said she . 
Before dinner she had gone out and had bought a ninety five cent night dress and some toilet articles . 
These she now bundled together again . 
She changed to her street dress she stole down the stairs . 
She was out at the side door , she was flying through the side street toward the Bowery . 
Hi ! shouted someone behind her . 
Where you going ? And overtaking her came her staunch friend Albert , the waiter . 
Feeling that she must need sympathy and encouragement , he had slipped away from his duties to go up to her . 
He had reached the hall in time to see what she was about and had darted bareheaded after her . 
Where you going ? he repeated , excitedly . 
A crowd began to gather . 
Oh , good by , she cried . 
I'm getting out before I'm told to go that's all . 
She put out her hand she was still moving and looking in the direction of the Bowery . 
Now you mustn't be foolish , , said he , holding on tightly to her hand . 
The boss says it's all right . 
I'd never dare try again . 
Tomorrow makes everything all right . 
You mustn't act like a baby . 
The first time Katy tried , they yelled her off the stage . 
Now she gets eleven a week . 
Come back right away with me . 
The boss'd be mad if you won't . 
You ain't acting right , Miss Lorna . 
I didn't think you was such a fool . 
He had her attention now . 
Unmindful of the little crowd they had gathered , they stood there discussing until to save Albert from pneumonia she returned with him . 
He saw her started up the stairs , then ventured to take his eye off her long enough to put his head into the winter garden and send a waiter for Lange . 
He stood guard until Lange came and was on his way to her . 
She had to come back and sing Suwanee River . 
The tears that cannot be shed were in her voice , in her face , as she stood there , with her violet gray eyes straining into vacancy . 
But the men and the women shed tears and when she moved , breaking the spell of silence , they not only applauded , they cheered . 
The news quickly spread that at Lange's there was a girl singer worth hearing and still more worth looking at . 
And Lange had his opportunity to arrive . 
But several things stood in his way , things a man of far more intelligence would have found it hard to overcome . 
Like nearly all saloon keepers , he was serf to a brewery and the particular brewery whose beer his mortgage compelled him to push did not make a beer that could be pushed . 
People complained that it had a disagreeably bitter aftertaste . 
In the second place , Mrs. Lange was a born sitter . 
She had married to rest and she was resting . 
She was always piled upon a chair . 
Thus , she was not an aid but a hindrance , an encourager of the help in laziness and slovenliness . 
Again , the cooking was distinctly bad the only really good thing the house served was coffee , and that was good only in the mornings . 
Finally , Lange was a saver by nature and not a spreader . 
He could hold tightly to any money he closed his stubby fingers upon he did not know how to plant money and make it grow , but only how to hoard . 
Thus it came to pass that , after the first spurt , the business fell back to about where it had been before Susan came . 
The question of getting money to live on is usually dismissed in a princely way by writers about human life . 
It dominates thought it determines action . 
But it is none the less mean and ridiculous . 
Susan's one dress was in a deplorable state . 
The lining hung in rags . 
The never good material was stretched out of shape , was frayed and worn gray in spots , was beyond being made up as presentable by the most careful pressing and cleaning . 
She had been forced to buy a hat , shoes , underclothes . 
She had only three dollars and a few cents left , and she simply did not dare lay it all out in dress materials . 
Yet , less than all would not be enough all would not be enough . 
Lange had from time to time more than hinted at the opportunities she was having as a public singer in his hall . 
But Susan , for all her experience , had remained one of those upon whom such opportunities must be thrust if they are to be accepted . 
So long as she had food and shelter , she could not make advances she could not even go so far as passive acquiescence . 
She knew she was again violating the fundamental canon of success whatever one's business , do it thoroughly if at all . 
But she could not overcome her temperament which had at this feeble and false opportunity at once resented itself . 
But it is one thing to know it is another thing to do . 
Susan ignored the attempts of the men she pretended not to understand Lange when they set him on to intercede with her for them . 
She saw that she was once more drifting to disaster and that she had not long to drift . 
She was exasperated against herself she was disgusted with herself . 
Growing seedier looking every day , she waited , defying the plain teachings of experience . 
She even thought seriously of going to work . 
But the situation in that direction remained unchanged . 
She was seeing things , the reasons for things , more clearly now , as experience developed her mind . 
She felt that to get on in respectability she ought to have been either more or less educated . 
If she had been used from birth to conditions but a step removed from savagery , she might have been content with what offered , might even have felt that she was rising . 
In respectability she could not earn what was barest necessity for her what she was now getting at Lange's decent shelter , passable food . 
She saw her own plight only too vividly . 
Those whose outward and inward lives are wide apart get a strong sense of dual personality . 
It was thus with Susan . 
There were times when she could not believe in the reality of her external life . 
And this , throughout civilization , was the honest work so praised by all who don't do it , but live pleasantly by making others do it . 
In the effort to prevent her downward drop from beginning again she searched all the occupations open to her . 
And she resolved that she would not even endanger it ever again . 
The largest part of the little capital she took away from Forty third Street had gone to a dentist who put in several fillings of her back teeth . 
She had learned to value every charm hair , teeth , eyes , skin , figure , hands . 
Katy had struck up a friendship at once profitable and sentimental with her stage manager . 
She often stayed out all night . 
On one of these nights Susan , alone in the tiny room and asleep , was roused by feeling hands upon her . 
She started up half awake and screamed . 
Sh ! came in Lange's voice . 
Susan had latterly observed sly attempts on his part to make advances without his wife and daughter's suspecting but she had thought her way of quietly ignoring was effective . 
You must go , she whispered . 
Mrs. Lange must have heard . 
I had to come , said he hoarsely , a mere voice in the darkness . 
I can't hold out no longer without you , Lorna . 
Go go , urged Susan . 
But it was too late . 
In the doorway , candle in hand , appeared Mrs. Lange . 
Despite her efforts at dressiness she was in her best hour homely and nearly shapeless . 
In night dress and released from corsets she was hideous and monstrous . 
I thought so ! she shrieked . 
I thought so ! I heard a burglar , mother , whined Lange , an abject and guilty figure . 
Shut your mouth , you loafer ! shrieked Mrs. Lange . 
And she turned to Susan . 
You gutter hussy , get on your clothes and clear out ! But Mrs. Lange began Susan . 
Clear out ! she shouted , opening the outer hall . 
Dress mighty damn quick and clear out ! Mother , you'll wake the people upstairs , pleaded Lange and Susan had never before realized how afraid of his wife the little man was . 
For God's sake , listen to sense . 
After I've thrown you into the streets , cried his wife , beside herself with jealous fury . 
Get dressed , I tell you ! she shouted at Susan . 
And the girl hurried into her clothes , making no further attempt to speak . 
She knew that to plead and to explain would be useless even if Mrs. Lange believed , still she would drive from the house the temptation to her husband . 
Lange , in a quaking , cowardly whine , begged his wife to be sensible and believe his burglar story . 
But with each half dozen words he uttered , she interrupted to hurl obscene epithets at him or at Susan . 
The tenants of the upstairs flats came down . 
She told her wrongs to a dozen half clad men , women and children they took her side at once , and with the women leading showered vile insults upon Susan . 
The uproar was rising , rising . 
Lange cowered in a corner , crying bitterly like a whipped child . 
Susan , only partly dressed , caught up her hat and rushed into the hall . 
Several women struck at her as she passed . 
She stumbled on the stairs , almost fell headlong . 
With the most frightful words in tenement house vocabulary pursuing her she fled into the street , and did not pause until she was within a few yards of the Bowery . 
She had trifled with the opportunity too long . 
It had flown in disgust , dislodging her as it took flight . 
She went into the saloon at the corner , into the little back room . 
Within an hour of Susan's being thrown into the streets , no one would have recognized her . 
She had been drinking , had been treating the two faded but young and decently dressed streetwalkers who sat at another table . 
The three , fired and maddened by the poison , were amusing themselves and two young men as recklessly intoxicated as they . 
When the barkeeper announced closing time , one of the young men said to her Which way ? To hell , laughed she . 
I've been thrown out everywhere else . 
Want to go along ? I'll never desert a perfect lady , replied he . 
Occasionally sheer exhaustion of nerves made it impossible for her to drink herself again into apathy before the effects of the last doses of the poison had worn off . 
Yet in every other way she took care of her health a strange mingling of prudence and subtle hope with recklessness and frank despair . 
All her refinement , baffled in the moral ways , concentrated upon the physical . 
She would be neat and well dressed she would not let herself be seized of the diseases on the pariah in those regions the diseases through dirt and ignorance and indifference . 
In the regions she now frequented recklessness was the keynote . 
The fire engines the ambulance the patrol wagon the city dead wagon these were all ever passing and repassing through those swarming streets . 
It was the vastest , the most populous tenement area of the city . 
The masses are eager for the necessities the classes are eager for the comforts and luxuries . 
The masses are ignorant the classes are intelligent or , at least , shrewd . 
Susan knew those regions well . 
She simply accepted life as she found it , lived it as best she could . 
She could not join the throngs moving toward church and synagogue to indulge in their dream that the present was a dream from which death would be a joyful awakening . 
She alternately pitied and envied them . 
She had her own dream that this dream , the present , would end in a joyful awakening to success and freedom and light and beauty . 
She admitted to herself that the dream was probably an illusion , like that of the pious throngs . 
But she was as unreasonably tenacious of her dream as they were of theirs . 
The earth is peopled with dreamers she was but one of them . 
The last thought of despair as the black earth closes is a hope , perhaps the most colossal of hope's delusions , that there will be escape in the grave . 
There is the time when we hope and know it and believe in it . 
There is the time when we hope and know it but have ceased to believe in it . 
There is the time when we hope , believing that we have altogether ceased to hope . 
That time had come for Susan . 
She seemed to think about the present . 
She moved about like a sleepwalker . 
What women did she know what men ? She only dimly remembered from day to day from hour to hour . 
Blurred faces passed before her , blurred voices sounded in her ears , blurred personalities touched hers . 
It was like the jostling of a huge crowd in night streets . 
A vague sense of buffetings of rude contacts of momentary sensations of pain , of shame , of disgust , all blunted and soon forgotten . 
In estimating suffering , physical or mental , to fail to take into account a more important factor the merciful paralysis or partial paralysis of any center of sensibility that is insistently assaulted . 
She no longer had headaches or nausea after drinking deeply . 
The most marked change was that never by any chance did she become gay the sky over her life was steadily gray gray or black , to gray again never lighter . 
She had the best furnished room in the tenement . 
She was the best dressed woman a marked and instantly recognizable figure because of her neat and finer clothes . 
Her profession kept alive and active the instincts for care of the person that either did not exist or were momentary and feeble in the respectable women . 
She spent all her leisure time for she no longer read in the care of her person . 
She was watched with frightened , yet longing and curious , eyes by all the girls who were at work . 
The mothers hated her many of them spat upon the ground after she had passed . 
In the opinion of these people an opinion often frankly expressed , rarely concealed with any but the thinnest hypocrisy the life of prostitution was not so bad . 
And if she went into prostitution , would her family get the benefit ? No. The mothers made little effort to save their sons they concentrated on the daughters . 
It was pitiful to see how in their ignorance they were unaware of the strongest forces working against them . 
Indeed , the prostitute class was the highest in this respect . 
The boys from the earliest age were on terms of licentious freedom with the girls . 
The favorite children's games , often played in the open street with the elders looking on and laughing , were sex games . 
The very babies used foul language that is , used the language they learned both at home and in the street . 
It was primitive man Susan was at the foundation of the world . 
In the end we which means the masses of us will gain infinitely . 
But gain or loss has not been in so called morality . 
There is not a virtue that has not existed from time ages before record . 
Not a vice which is shallowly called effete or the product of overcivilization , but originated before man was man . 
To speak of the conditions in which Susan Lenox now lived as savagery is to misuse the word . 
Every transitional stage is accompanied by a disintegration . 
Savagery was a settled state in which every man and every woman had his or her fixed position , settled duties and rights . 
In the historic day's journey of perhaps fifteen thousand years our present time is but a brief second . 
In that second there has come a breaking up of the makeshift organization which long served the working multitudes fairly well . 
The result is an anarchy in which the strong oppress the weak , in which the masses are being crushed by the burdens imposed upon them by the classes . 
And in that particular part of the human race en route into which fate had flung Susan Lenox conditions not of savagery but of primitive chaos were prevailing . 
And these petty parasites imitated the big parasites in their ways of spending their dubiously got gains . 
Nothing to think about but the appetites and their vices . 
Nothing to hope for but the next carouse . 
Susan had brought down with her from above one desire unknown to her associates and neighbors the desire to forget . 
If she could only forget ! If the poison would not wear off at times ! She could not quite forget . 
And to be unable to forget is to remember and to remember is to long and to long is to hope . 
Several times she heard of Freddie Palmer . 
Twice she chanced upon his name in the newspaper an incidental reference to him in connection with local politics . 
The other times were when men talking together in the drinking places frequented by both sexes spoke of him as a minor power in the organization . 
Each time she got a sense of her remoteness , of her security . 
Once she passed in Grand Street a detective she had often seen with him in Considine's at Broadway and Forty second . 
The bull looked sharply at her . 
But he went on without recognizing her . 
The sharp glance had been simply that official expression of see all and know all which is mere formality , part of the official livery , otherwise meaningless . 
However , it is not to that detective's discredit that he failed to recognize her . 
She had adapted herself to her changed surroundings . 
Susan made almost as much as she could have made in the more renowned quarters of the town . 
And presently she was able to move into a tenement which , except for two workingmen's families of a better class , was given over entirely to fast women . 
It was much better kept , much cleaner , much better furnished than the tenements for workers chiefly they could not afford decencies , much less luxuries . 
All that sort of thing was , for the neighborhood , concentrated in the saloons , the dance halls , the fast houses and the fast flats . 
Sometimes as much as twenty dollars a week , rarely less than twelve or fifteen . 
She avoided the tough places , the hang outs of the gangs . 
She rarely went alone into the streets at night and the afternoons were , luckily , best for business as well as for safety . 
She made no friends and therefore no enemies . 
Without meaning to do so and without realizing that she did so , she held herself aloof without haughtiness through sense of loneliness , not at all through sense of superiority . 
She struggled and she was anything but weak . 
But not a sound could escape from her tight pressed throat . 
One of the workingmen , returning drunk from the meeting of the union , in the corner saloon , stumbled over her , gave her a kick in his anger . 
This roused her she uttered a faint cry . 
Thought it was a man , mumbled he , dragging her to a sitting position . 
Oh it's you ! Don't make any noise . 
If my old woman came out , she'd kill us both . 
Never mind me , said Susan . 
Oh , I thought it was the booze . 
They say you hit it something fierce . 
And she felt for her stockings . 
They were torn away from her garters . 
Her bosom also was bare , for the lobbygow had searched there , also . 
How much did he get ? About thirty five . 
The hell he did ! Want me to call a cop ? No , replied Susan , who was on her feet again . 
What's the use ? Those damn cops ! cursed the workingman . 
They'd probably pinch you or both of us . 
Ten to one the lobbygows divide with them . 
I didn't mean that , said Susan . 
The police were most friendly and most kind to her . 
She was understanding the ways of the world better now , and appreciated that the police themselves were part of the same vast system of tyranny and robbery that was compelling her . 
The police made her pay because they dared not refuse to be collectors . 
They bound whom the mysterious invisible power compelled them to bind they loosed whom that same power bade them loose . 
She had no quarrel with the police , who protected her from far worse oppressions and oppressors than that to which they subjected her . 
And if they tolerated lobbygows and divided with them , it was because the overshadowing power ordained it so . 
Needn't be afraid I'll blow to the cop , said the drunken artisan . 
You can damn the cops all you please to me . 
They make New York worse than Russia . 
I guess they do the best they can like everybody else , said the girl wearily . 
No , thank you , said she . 
Not that she did not need help but she wished no disagreeable scene with the workingman's wife who might open the door as they passed his family's flat . 
She went upstairs , the man waiting below until she should be safe and out of the way . 
She staggered into her room , tottered to the bed , fell upon it . 
A girl named Clara , who lived across the hall , was sitting in a rocking chair in a nightgown , reading a Bertha Clay novel and smoking a cigarette . 
She glanced up , was arrested by the strange look in Susan's eyes . 
Hello been hitting the pipe , I see , said she . 
Down in Gussie's room ? No. A lobbygow , said Susan . 
Did he get much ? About thirty five . 
I'll bet it was Gussie's fellow . 
Him and her stay in , hitting the pipe all the time . 
That costs money , and she hasn't been out for I don't know how long . 
Let's go down there and raise hell . 
What's the use ? said Susan . 
You ought to 'a' put it in the savings bank . 
That's what I do when I have anything . 
Then , when I'm robbed , they only get what I've just made . 
Last time , they didn't get nothing but me . 
Her teeth were good in front , but out on one side and beginning to be discolored on the other . 
How long had you been saving ? Nearly six months . 
Gee ! Isn't that hell ! Presently she laughed . 
Six months' work and only thirty five to show for it . 
Guess you're about as poor at hiving it up as I am . 
I give it to that loafer I live with . 
You give it away to anybody that wants a stake . 
Well what's the diff ? It all goes . 
Give me a cigarette , said Susan , sitting up and inspecting the bruises on her bosom and legs . 
And get that bottle of whiskey from under the soiled clothes in the bottom of the washstand . 
It is something to celebrate , isn't it ? said Clara . 
My fellow's gone to his club tonight , so I didn't go out . 
I never do any more , unless he's there to hang round and see that I ain't done up . 
You'll have to get a fellow . 
You'll have to come to it , as I'm always telling you . 
And they keep off bums and lobbygows and scare the bilkers into coughing up . 
Not for me , replied Susan . 
The greater the catastrophe , the longer the time before it is fully realized . 
Susan's loss of the money that represented so much of savage if momentary horror , and so much of unconscious hope this calamity did not overwhelm her for several days . 
Then she yielded for the first time to the lure of opium . 
She had listened longingly to the descriptions of the delights as girls and men told for practically all of them smoked or took cocaine . 
But to Clara's or Gussie's invitations to join the happy band of dreamers , she had always replied , Not yet . 
Now , however , she felt that the time had come . 
Hope in this world she had none . 
His great dark eyes were gazing unseeingly at her , were perhaps using her as an outline sketch from which his imagination could picture a beauty of loveliness beyond human . 
Gussie taught her how to prepare the little ball of opium , how to put it on the pipe and draw in its fumes . 
Her system was so well prepared for it by the poisons she had drunk that she had satisfactory results from the outset . 
And she entered upon the happiest period of her life thus far . 
All the hideousness of her profession disappeared under the gorgeous draperies of the imagination . 
Opium's magic transformed the vile , the obscene , into the lofty , the romantic , the exalted . 
Her opium world became the vivid reality . 
The opium soon changed all this . 
Her skin , always tending toward pallor , became of the dead amber white of old ivory . 
Her thinness took on an ethereal transparency that gave charm even to her slight stoop . 
Her face became dreamy , exalted , rapt and her violet gray eyes looked from it like the vents of poetical fires burning without ceasing upon an altar to the god of dreams . 
And such accidents were likely to happen . 
Still there was a fair chance of her keeping her balance until loss of looks and loss of health the end of the shelf should drop her abruptly to the very bottom . 
She could guess what was there . 
Despite liquor and opium and the degradations of the street woman's life she walked that narrow ledge with curious steadiness . 
She was unconscious of the cause . 
Indeed , self consciousness had never been one of her traits . 
Susan had not been so apt a pupil of Fanny Warham's as was Ruth , because Susan had not Ruth's nature of the old maidish , cut and dried conventional . 
An enemy must be met with his own weapons or stronger . 
They operate automatically , they apply to all the multitude of small , every day semi unconscious actions of the daily routine . 
And not morality but morals is the warp of character the part which , once destroyed or even frayed , cannot be restored . 
And while their evidence was always toward going to pieces her tendency was always to repair and to put off the break up . 
One June evening she was looking through the better class of dance halls and drinking resorts for Clara , to get her to go up to Gussie's for a smoke . 
She opened a door she had never happened to enter before a dingy door with the glass frosted . 
Just inside there was a fetid little bar view of the rest of the room was cut off by a screen from behind which came the sound of a tuneless old piano . 
She knew Clara would not be in such a den , but out of curiosity she glanced round the screen . 
She was seeing a low ceilinged room , the walls almost dripping with the dirt of many and many a hard year . 
In a corner was the piano , battered , about to fall to pieces , its ancient and horrid voice cracked by the liquor which had been poured into it by facetious drunkards . 
His filthy fingers were pounding out a waltz . 
About the floor were tottering in the measure of the waltz a score of dreadful old women . 
They had each a little biscuit knot of white hair firmly upon the crown of the head . 
From their bleached , seamed old faces gleamed the longings or the torments of all the passions they could no longer either inspire or satisfy . 
Susan stood rooted to the threshold of that frightful scene that vision of the future toward which she was hurrying . 
And she would laugh , as did these , would enjoy as did these , would revel in the filth her senses had been trained to find sweet . 
No ! No ! she protested . 
I'd kill myself first ! And then she cowered again , as the thought came that she probably would not , any more than these had killed themselves . 
The descent would be gradual no matter how swift , still gradual . 
Only the insane put an end to life . 
Yes she would come here some day . 
She leaned against the wall , her throat contracting in a fit of nausea . 
She grew cold all over her teeth chattered . 
She tried in vain to tear her gaze from the spectacle some invisible power seemed to be holding her head in a vise , thrusting her struggling eyelids violently open . 
There were several men , dead drunk , asleep in old wooden chairs against the wall . 
One of these men was so near her that she could have touched him . 
His wreck of a hard hat had fallen from his head as it dropped forward in drunken sleep . 
Something in the shape of the head made her concentrate upon this man . 
She gave a sharp cry , stretched out her hand , touched the man's shoulder . 
Rod ! The head slowly lifted , and the bleary , blowsy wreck of Roderick Spenser's handsome face was turned stupidly toward her . 
Into his gray eyes slowly came a gleam of recognition . 
Then she saw the red of shame burst into his hollow cheeks , and the head quickly drooped . 
Rod ! It's you ! Get the hell out , he mumbled . 
You know me , she said . 
I see the color in your face . 
Oh , Rod you needn't be ashamed before me . 
She felt him quiver under her fingers pressing upon his shoulder . 
But he pretended to snore . 
Rod , she pleaded , I want you to come along with me . 
I can't do you any harm now . 
The hunchback had stopped playing . 
Spenser , stooped and shaking , rose abruptly , thrust Susan aside with a sweep of the arm that made her reel , bolted into the street . 
She recovered her balance and amid hoarse croakings of That's right , honey ! Don't give him up ! followed the shambling , swaying figure . 
He was too utterly drunk to go far soon down he sank , a heap of rags and filth , against a stoop . 
She bent over him , saw he was beyond rousing , straightened and looked about her . 
Two honest looking young Jews stopped . 
Won't you help me get him home ? she said to them . 
Sure ! replied they in chorus . 
They dragged him up the two flights of stairs and , as she pushed back the door , deposited him on the floor . 
She assured them they could do nothing more , thanked them , and they departed . 
Clara appeared in her doorway . 
God Almighty , Lorna ! she cried . 
What have you got there ? How'd it get in ? You've been advising me to take a fellow , said Susan . 
Clara looked at her as if she thought her crazed by drink or dope . 
I'll call the janitor and have him thrown out . 
No , he's my lover , said Susan . 
Will you help me clean him up ? Clara , looking at Spenser's face now , saw those signs which not the hardest of the world's hard uses can cut or tear away . 
Oh ! she said , in a tone of sympathy . 
He is down , isn't he ? But he'll pull round all right . 
When she returned , Susan too was in her chemise and ready to begin the search for the man , if man there was left deep buried in that muck . 
With her foot Susan pushed the rags along the hall floor and into the garbage closet . 
Then she and Clara lifted the emaciated , dirt streaked , filth smeared body , carried it to the bathroom , let it down into the water . 
There were at hand plenty of those strong , specially prepared soaps and other disinfectants constantly used by the women of their kind who still cling to cleanliness and health . 
With these they attacked him , not as if he were a human being , but as if he were some inanimate object that must be scoured before it could be used . 
Again and again they let out the water , black , full of dead and dying vermin again and again they rinsed him , attacked him afresh . 
If Spenser recovered consciousness and it seems hardly possible that he did not he was careful to conceal the fact . 
He remained limp , inert , apparently in a stupor . 
They gave him one final scrubbing , one final rinsing , one final thorough inspection . 
Now , he's all right , declared Clara . 
What shall we do with him ? Put him to bed , said Susan . 
They had already dried him off in the empty tub . 
They now rubbed him down with a rough towel , lifted him , Susan taking the shoulders , Clara the legs , and put him in Susan's bed . 
Clara ran to her room , brought one of the two nightshirts she kept for her fellow . 
Who is he ? asked Clara . 
A man I used to know , said Susan . 
Like all the girls in that life with a real story to tell , she never told about her past self . 
Never tell ? They never even remember if drink and drugs will do their duty . 
I don't blame you for loving him , said Clara . 
Somehow , the lower a man sinks the more a woman loves him . 
It's the other way with men . 
But then men don't know what love is . 
And a woman don't really know till she's been through the mill . 
I don't love him , said Susan . 
Same thing , replied the practical Clara , with a wave of the bare arm at the end of which smoked the cigarette . 
What're you going to do with him ? I don't know , confessed Susan . 
She was not a little uneasy at the thought of his awakening . 
That past that far , dear , dead past ! Again she was a simple , innocent girl upon the high rock , eating that wonderful dinner . 
Again the evening light faded , stars and moon came out , and she felt the first sweet stirring of love for him . 
And Clara , sobbing in sympathy , kissed her and stole away , softly closing the door . 
If a man die , shall he live again ? asked the old Arabian philosopher . 
If a woman die , shall she live again ? . 
Shall not that which dies in weakness live again in strength ? . 
Looking at him , as he lay there sleeping so quietly , her being surged with the heaving of high longings and hopes . 
If they could only live again ! Here they were , together , at the lowest depth , at the rock bottom of life . 
If they could build on that rock , build upon the very foundation of the world , then would they indeed build in strength ! Then , nothing could destroy nothing ! . 
If they could live again ! If they could build ! She had something to live for something to fight for . 
Into her eyes came a new light into her soul came peace and strength . 
Something to live for someone to redeem . 
XI SHE fell asleep , her head resting upon her hand , her elbow on the arm of the chair . 
She awoke with a shiver she opened her eyes to find him gazing at her . 
The eyes of both shifted instantly . 
Wouldn't you like some whiskey ? she asked . 
Thanks , replied he , and his unchanged voice reminded her vividly of his old self , obscured by the beard and by the dissipated look . 
She took the bottle from its concealment in the locked washstand drawer , poured him out a large drink . 
When she came back where he could see the whiskey in the glass , his eyes glistened and he raised himself first on his elbow , then to a sitting position . 
His shaking hand reached out eagerly and his expectant lips quivered . 
He gulped the whiskey down . 
Thank you , he said , gazing longingly at the bottle as he held the empty glass toward her . 
More ? I would like a little more , said he gratefully . 
Again she poured him a large drink , and again he gulped it down . 
That's strong stuff , said he . 
But then they sell strong stuff in this part of town . 
The other kind tastes weak to me now . 
He dropped back against the pillows . 
She poured herself a drink . 
Halfway to her lips the glass halted . 
I've got to stop that , thought she , if I'm going to do anything for him or for myself . 
And she poured the whiskey back and put the bottle away . 
The whole incident took less than five seconds . 
It did not occur that she was essaying and achieving the heroic , that she had in that instant revealed her right to her dream of a career high above the common lot . 
Don't you drink ? said he . 
I've decided to cut it out , replied she carelessly . 
I couldn't live without it and wouldn't . 
It is a comfort when one's on the way down , said she . 
But I'm going to try the other direction for a change . 
She held a box of cigarettes toward him . 
He took one , then she she held the lighted match for him , lit her own cigarette , let the flame of the match burn on , she absently watching it . 
Look out ! You'll burn yourself ! cried he . 
She started , threw the match into the slop jar . 
How do you feel ? inquired she . 
Like the devil , he answered . 
But then I haven't known what it was to feel any other way for several months except when I couldn't feel at all . 
A long silence , both smoking , he thinking , she furtively watching him . 
You haven't changed so much , he finally said . 
At least , not on the outside . 
More on the outside than on the inside , said she . 
The inside doesn't change much . 
There I'm almost as I was that day on the big rock . 
And I guess you are , too aren't you ? The devil I am ! I've grown hard and bitter . 
That's all outside , declared she . 
That's the shell like the scab that stays over the sore spot till it heals . 
Sore spot ? I'm nothing but sore spots . 
I've been treated like a dog . 
And he proceeded to talk about the only subject that interested him himself . 
He spoke in a defensive way , as if replying to something she had said or thought . 
I've not got down in the world without damn good excuse . 
I wrote several plays , and they were tried out of town . 
But we never could get into New York . 
I think Brent was jealous of me , and his influence kept me from a hearing . 
I know it sounds conceited , but I'm sure I'm right . 
Brent ? said she , in a queer voice . 
Oh , I think you must be mistaken . 
He doesn't look like a man who could do petty mean things . 
No , I'm sure he's not petty . 
Do you know him ? cried Spenser , in an irritated tone . 
No. But someone pointed him out to me once a long time ago one night in the Martin . 
And then you'll remember there used to be a great deal of talk about him when we lived in Forty third Street . 
Well , he's responsible , said Spenser , sullenly . 
The men on top are always trampling down those who are trying to climb up . 
He had it in for me . 
One of my friends who thought he was a decent chap gave him my best play to read . 
He returned it with some phrases about its showing talent one of those phrases that don't mean a damn thing . 
And a few weeks ago Spenser raised himself excitedly the thieving hound produced a play that was a clean steal from mine . 
I'd be laughed at if I protested or sued . 
But I know , curse him ! He fell back shaking so violently that his cigarette dropped to the sheet . 
Susan picked it up , handed it to him . 
He eyed her with angry suspicion . 
You don't believe me , do you ? he demanded . 
I don't know anything about it , replied she . 
He flung himself angrily in the bed . 
You never did have any heart any sympathy . 
And who wrote it ? Why , some newspaper correspondent in the pay of the Syndicate and that means Brent . 
And of course it was a dead failure . 
So I gave up and here I am . 
This your room ? Yes . 
Where's this nightshirt come from ? It belongs to the friend of the girl across the hall . 
The hell it does ! mocked he . 
No one is coming , said Susan . 
There's no one to come . 
He was looking round the comfortable little room that was the talk of the whole tenement and was stirring wives and fast women alike to do a little fixing up . 
Said he A nice little nest you've made for him . 
You always were good at that . 
I've made it for myself , said she . 
I never bring men here . 
I want my clothes , cried he . 
I haven't sunk that low , you ! The word he used did not greatly disturb Susan . 
The shell she had formed over herself could ward off brutal contacts of languages no less than of the other kinds . 
It did , however , shock her a little to hear Rod Spenser use a word so crude . 
Give me my clothes , he ordered , waving his fists in a fierce , feeble gesture . 
They were torn all to pieces . 
I'll get you some more in the morning . 
He dropped back again , a scowl upon his face . 
I've got no money not a damn cent . 
I did half a day's work on the docks and made enough to quiet me last night . 
Give me my clothes ! They're gone , said Susan . 
They were completely used up . 
This brought back apparently anything but dim memory of what his plight had been . 
How'd I happen to get so clean ? Clara and I washed you off a little . 
He lay silent a few minutes , then said in a hesitating , ashamed tone , My troubles have made me a boor . 
You've been tremendously kind to me . 
Oh , it wasn't much . 
Don't you feel sleepy ? Not a bit . 
He dragged himself from the bed . 
She laughed in the friendliest way . 
He passed his hand over his face and coughed violently , she holding his head and supporting his emaciated shoulders . 
After several minutes of coughing and gagging , gasping and groaning and spitting , he was relieved by the spasm and lay down again . 
When he got his breath , he said with rest between words I'd ask you to send for the ambulance , but if the doctors catch me , they'll lock me away . 
Oh , I'll soon be out of it . 
She did not dare look at him lest he should see the pity and horror in her eyes . 
They'll find a cure for it , pursued he . 
But not till the day after I'm gone . 
That is the way my luck runs . 
He sat up , sipping it to make it last . 
He noted the long row of books on the shelf fastened along the wall beside the bed , the books and magazines on the table . 
Said he As fond of reading as ever , I see ? Fonder , said she . 
It takes me out of myself . 
I suppose you read the sort of stuff you really like , now not the things you used to read to make old Drumley think you were cultured and intellectual . 
No the same sort , replied she , unruffled by his contemptuous , unjust fling . 
Come to think of it , I guess you did have pretty good taste in books . 
But he was interested in himself , like all invalids and , like them , he fancied his own intense interest could not but be shared by everyone . 
Susan was used to these hard luck stories , was used to analyzing them . 
With the aid of what she had worked out as to his character after she left him , she had no difficulty in seeing that he was deceiving himself , was excusing himself . 
But after all she had lived through , after all she had discovered about human frailty , especially in herself , she was not able to criticize , much less condemn , anybody . 
Her doubts merely set her to wondering whether he might not also be self deceived as to his disease . 
Why do you think you've got consumption ? asked she . 
I was examined at the free dispensary up in Second Avenue the other day . 
I've suspected what was the matter for several months . 
They told me I was right . 
But the doctors are always making mistakes . 
I'd not give up if I were you . 
Do you suppose I would if I had anything to live for ? I was thinking about that a while ago while you were asleep . 
Oh , I'm all in . 
So am I , said she . 
And as we've nothing to lose and no hope , why , trying to do something won't make us any worse off . 
We've both struck the bottom . 
We can't go any lower . 
She leaned forward and , with her earnest eyes fixed upon him , said , Rod why not try together ? He closed his eyes . 
I'm afraid I can't be of much use to you , she went on . 
But you can help me . 
And helping me will make you help yourself . 
I can't get up alone . 
No doubt it's my fault . 
I guess I'm one of those women that aren't hard enough or self confident enough to do what's necessary unless I've got some man to make me do it . 
Perhaps I'd get the the strength or whatever it is , when I was much older . 
But by that time in my case I guess it'd be too late . 
Won't you help me , Rod ? He turned his head away , without opening his eyes . 
You've helped me many times beginning with the first day we met . 
I went back on you . 
I did sprain my ankle , but I could have come . 
That wasn't anything , replied she . 
You had already done a thousand times more than you needed to do . 
His hand wandered along the cover in her direction . 
I lied about where I got the money yesterday . 
Three of us from the saloon they call the Owl's Chute two Yale men one of them had been a judge and I. We've been begging for a week . 
We were going out on the road in a few days to rob . 
Then I saw you in that old women's dance hall the Venusberg , they call it . 
You've come down here for me , Rod . 
You'll take me back ? You'll save me from the Venusberg ? I couldn't save anybody . 
Susie , at bottom I'm N. G. I always was and I knew it . 
But you ! If you hadn't been a woman and such a sweet , considerate one you'd have never got down here . 
Such a fool , corrected Susan . 
But , once I get up , I'll not be so again . 
I'll fight under the rules , instead of acting in the silly way they teach us as children . 
Don't say those hard things , Susie ! Aren't they true ? Yes , but I can't bear to hear them from a woman . 
I told you that you hadn't changed . 
But after I'd looked at you a while I saw that you have . 
You've got a terrible look in your eyes wonderful and terrible . 
You had something of that look as a child the first time I saw you . 
The day after my marriage , said the girl , tearing her face away . 
It was there then , he went on . 
But now it's it's heartbreaking , Susie when your face is in repose . 
I've gone through a fire that has burned up every bit of me that can burn , said she . 
I've been wondering if what's left isn't strong enough to do something with . 
I believe so if you'll help me . 
Help you ? I help anybody ? Don't mock me , Susie . 
I don't know about anybody else , said she sweetly and gently , but I do know about me . 
It's because I'm unstrung , explained he . 
Don't think I'm a poor contemptible fool of a whiner . 
Yes , I am a whiner ! Susie , I ought to have been the woman and you the man . 
Weak weak weak ! She turned the gas low , bent over him , kissed his brow , caressed him . 
Let's do the best we can , she murmured . 
He put his arm round her . 
I wonder if there is any hope , he said . 
Let's not hope , pleaded she . 
Let's just do the best we can . 
What for instance ? You know the theater people . 
You might write a little play a sketch and you and I could act it in one of the ten cent houses . 
That's not a bad idea ! exclaimed he . 
A little comedy about fifteen or twenty minutes . 
He sketched , she suggested . 
They planned until broad day , then fell asleep , she half sitting up , his head pillowed upon her lap . 
She was awakened by a sense of a parching and suffocating heat . 
She started up with the idea of fire in her drowsy mind . 
But a glance at him revealed the real cause . 
His face was fiery red , and from his lips came rambling sentences , muttered , whispered , that indicated the delirium of a high fever . 
She had first seen it when she and the night porter broke into Burlingham's room in the Walnut Street House , in Cincinnati . 
Susan ran across the hall and roused Clara , who would watch while she went for a doctor . 
You'd better get Einstein in Grand Street , Clara advised . 
Why not Sacci ? asked Susan . 
Our doctor doesn't know anything but the one thing and he doesn't like to take other kinds of cases . 
You know , he's like all of them he won't come unless you pay in advance . 
How much ? asked Susan . 
I'll lend you if No I've got it . 
She had eleven dollars and sixty cents in the world . 
Einstein pronounced it a case of typhoid . 
You must get him to the hospital at once . 
Susan and Clara looked at each other in terror . 
Nonsense ! said he gruffly . 
You girls look too sensible to believe those silly lies . 
Susan looked at him steadily . 
Of course , the pay service is better , said he in a strikingly different tone . 
How much would it be at a pay hospital ? asked Susan . 
Twenty five a week including my services , said Doctor Einstein . 
But you can't afford that . 
Will he get the best treatment for that ? The very best . 
As good as if he were Rockefeller or the big chap uptown . 
I understand , said the girl . 
I don't blame anybody for anything . 
She said to Clara , Can you lend me twenty ? Sure . 
Come in and get it . 
When she and Susan were in the hall beyond Einstein's hearing , she went on I've got the twenty and you're welcome to it . 
But Lorna hadn't you better In the same sort of a case , what'd you do ? interrupted Susan . 
And she gave Susan a roll of much soiled bills a five , the rest ones and twos . 
I can get the ambulance to take him free , said Einstein . 
That'll save you five for a carriage . 
It was arranged that she could visit him at any hour and stay as long as she liked . 
She returned to the tenement , to find the sentiment of the entire neighborhood changed toward her . 
Not loss of money , not loss of work , not dispossession nor fire nor death is the supreme calamity among the poor , but sickness . 
It is their most frequent visitor sickness in all its many frightful forms rheumatism and consumption , cancer and typhoid and the rest of the monsters . 
Yet never do the poor grow accustomed or hardened . 
And at the sight of the ambulance the neighborhood had been instantly stirred . 
When the reason for its coming got about , Susan became the object of universal sympathy and respect . 
Clara went from group to group , relating the whole story , and the tears flowed at each recital . 
But Susan's burden of sorrow was not on this account overlooked . 
Rafferty , who kept the saloon at the corner and was chief lieutenant to O'Frayne , the District Leader , sent for her and handed her a twenty . 
That may help some , said he . 
Susan hesitated gave it back . 
Thank you , said she , and perhaps later I'll have to get it from you . 
But I don't want to get into debt . 
This ain't debt , explained Rafferty . 
Take it and forget it . 
I couldn't do that , said the girl . 
As she went away he looked after her , saying to his barkeeper What do you think of that , Terry ? I offered her a twenty and she sidestepped . 
Terry's brother had got drunk a few days before , had killed a woman and was on his way to the chair . 
He was a broad , tolerant and good humored man he made allowances for an employee whose brother was in for murder . 
Susan had little time to spend at the hospital . 
She must now earn fifty dollars a week nearly double the amount she had been averaging . 
She must pay the twenty five dollars for Spenser , the ten dollars for her lodgings . 
Then there was the seven dollars which must be handed to the police captain's wardman in the darkness of some entry every Thursday night . 
But on the closest figuring , fifty a week would barely meet her absolute necessities would give her but seven a week for food and other expenses and nothing toward repaying Clara . 
Fifty dollars a week ! She might have a better chance to make it could she go back to the Broadway Fifth Avenue district . 
In the Grand Street district she must stay , and she must stop the nonsense and play the game must be businesslike . 
O'Ryan was a huge brute of a man , his great hard face bearing the scars of battles against pistol , knife , bludgeon and fist . 
He was a sour and savage brute , hated and feared by everyone for his tyrannies over the helpless poor and the helpless outcast class . 
He had primitive masculine notions as to feminine virtue , intact despite the latter day general disposition to concede toleration and even a certain respectability to prostitutes . 
Susan waited in the back room of the saloon nearest O'Ryan's lodgings and sent a boy to ask him to come . 
The boy came back with the astonishing message that she was to come to O'Ryan's flat . 
Susan was so doubtful that she paused to ask the janitress about it . 
It's all right , said the janitress . 
Since his wife died three years ago him and his baby lives alone . 
There's his old mother but she's gone out . 
He's always at home when he ain't on duty . 
He takes care of the baby himself , though it howls all the time something awful . 
The thing was clawing and growling and grinding its teeth . 
At sight of Susan it fixed malevolent eyes on her and began to snap its teeth at her . 
Don't mind him , said O'Ryan . 
He's only acting up queer . 
After a time O'Ryan succeeded in quieting it . 
He seemed to think some explanation was necessary . 
You spend a good deal of time with it , said Susan . 
All I can spare from my job . 
I'm afraid to trust him to anybody , he being kind of different . 
Then , too , I like to take care of him . 
You see , it's all I've got to remember her by . 
I'm kind o' tryin' to do what she'd want did . 
He looked at his monstrous child . 
Yes , I like settin' here , thinkin' and takin' care of him . 
I suppose you've come about being let off on the assessment ? Already he knew the whole story of Rod and the hospital . 
Yes that's why I'm bothering you , said she . 
You needn't pay but five fifty . 
I can only let you off a dollar and a half my bit and the captain's . 
We pass the rest on up and we don't dare let you off . 
Oh , I can make the money , Susan said hastily . 
Thank you , Mr. O'Ryan , but I don't want to get anyone into trouble . 
We've got the right to knock off one dollar and a half , said O'Ryan . 
The whole thing's done systematic , and they won't take no excuses , won't allow no breaks in the system nowhere . 
You can see for yourself it'd go to smash if they did . 
Somebody must get a lot of money , said Susan . 
Oh , it's dribbled out and as you go higher up , I don't suppose them that gets it knows where it comes from . 
The whole world's nothing but graft , anyhow . 
Sorry I can't let you off . 
The thing in his lap had recovered strength for a fresh fit of malevolence . 
It was tearing at its hairy , hideous face with its claws and was howling and shrieking , the big father gently trying to soothe it for her sake . 
She halted in the deserted hall and gave way to a spasm of dry sobbing an overflow of all the emotions that had been accumulating within her . 
What a world ! However the fifty a week must be got and she must be businesslike . 
Most of the girls who took to the streets came direct from the tenements of New York , of the foreign cities or of the factory towns of New England . 
And the world over , tenement house life is an excellent school for the life of the streets . 
Thus , practically all the other girls had the advantage over Susan . 
Soon after they definitely abandoned respectability and appeared in the streets frankly members of the profession , they became bold and rapacious . 
They respected themselves for all things , talk to the contrary in the search for the sympathy and pity most human beings crave . 
They despised the men as utterly as the men despised them . 
They bargained as shamelessly as the men . 
Susan had been unfitted for her profession as for all active , unsheltered life by her early training . 
The point of view given us in our childhood remains our point of view as to all the essentials of life to the end . 
Reason , experience , the influence of contact with many phases of the world , may change us seemingly , but the under instinct remains unchanged . 
Thus , Susan had never lost , and never would lose her original repugnance not even drink had ever given her the courage to approach men or to bargain with them . 
Still , if there be merit in shrinking , even when the cruelest necessities were goading , that merit was hers in full measure . 
Anyhow , it was absurd to practice a profession half heartedly . 
To play your game , whatever it might be , for all there was in it that was the obvious first principle of success . 
Yet she remained laggard and squeamish . 
Not by merely tolerating the not too impossible men who joined her without sign from her , and not by merely accepting what they gave , could fifty dollars a week be made . 
She must dress herself in franker avowal of her profession , must look as expensive as her limited stock of clothing , supplemented by her own taste , would permit . 
She must crush down her repugnance , must be active , not simply passive must get the extra dollars by stimulating male appetites , instead of simply permitting them to satisfy themselves . 
She must seem rather the eager mistress than the reluctant and impatient wife . 
And she did abruptly change her manner . 
Whatever else her career had done for her , it undoubtedly had strengthened this part of her nature . 
And now the result of her training showed . 
She was able to pay Clara back in less than ten days . 
In Spenser's second week at the hospital she had him moved to better quarters and better attendance at thirty dollars a week . 
But now she no longer felt either degraded or heart sick and heart weary . 
And when he passed the worst crisis her spirits began to return . 
At any rate , fight and conquer she did . 
The strongest interest always wins . 
She had an interest stronger than love of opium an interest that substituted itself for opium and for drink and supplanted them . 
Life indeed life , at last ! In his third week Rod began to round toward health . 
Einstein observed from the nurse's charts that Susan's visits were having an unfavorably exciting effect . 
He showed her the readings of temperature and pulse , and forbade her to stay longer than five minutes at each of her two daily visits . 
Also , she must not bring up any topic beyond the sickroom itself . 
One day Spenser greeted her with , I'll feel better , now that I've got this off my mind . 
He held out to her a letter . 
Take that to George Fitzalan . 
He's an old friend of mine one I've done a lot for and never asked any favors of . 
He may be able to give you something fairly good , right away . 
Susan glanced penetratingly at him , saw he had been brooding over the source of the money that was being spent upon him . 
Very well , said she , I'll go as soon as I can . 
Go this afternoon , said he with an invalid's fretfulness . 
And when you come this evening you can tell me how you got on . 
But you know , Rod , there's not a ghost of a chance . 
I tell you Fitzalan's my friend . 
I don't want you to get into a mood where you'll be awfully depressed if I should fail . 
She went away , depressed and worried . 
And twenty minutes after making this decision she was sitting in the anteroom of a suite of theatrical offices in the Empire Theater building . 
She deigned to take in Susan's name and the letter . 
After perhaps ten silent and uninterrupted minutes a man hurried in from the outside hall , strode toward the frosted glass door marked Private . 
With his hand reaching for the knob he halted , made an impatient gesture , plumped himself down at the long table at its distant opposite end . 
With a sweep of the arm he cleared a space wherein he proceeded to spread papers from his pocket and to scribble upon them furiously . 
When Susan happened to glance at him , his head was bent so low and his straw hat was tilted so far forward that she could not see his face . 
She observed that he was dressed attractively in an extremely light summer suit of homespun his hands were large and strong and ruddy the hands of an artist , in good health . 
Her glance returned to the magazine . 
After a few minutes she looked up . 
His voice made her start . 
It's been a long time since I've seen you , he was saying . 
She looked up , not believing it possible he was addressing her . 
But his gaze was upon her . 
Thus , she had not been mistaken in thinking she had seen recognition in his eyes . 
Yes , she said , with a faint smile . 
A longer time for you than for me , said he . 
A good deal has happened to me , she admitted . 
Are you on the stage ? No. Not yet . 
The girl entered by way of the private door . 
Miss Lenox this way , please . 
She saw Brent , became instantly all smiles and bows . 
Oh Mr. Fitzalan doesn't know you're here , Mr. Brent , she cried . 
Then , to Susan , Wait a minute . 
She was about to reenter the private office when Brent stopped her with , Let Miss Lenox go in first . 
I don't wish to see Mr. Fitzalan yet . 
And he stood up , took off his hat , bowed gravely to Susan , said , I'm glad to have seen you again . 
Susan , with some color forced into her old ivory skin by nervousness and amazement , went into the presence of Fitzalan . 
His features were sharp , aggressive , rather hard . 
He might have sat for the typical successful American young man of forty so much younger in New York than is forty elsewhere in the United States and so much older . 
He looked at Susan with a pleasant sympathetic smile . 
So , said he , you're taking care of poor Spenser , are you ? Tell him I'll try to run down to see him . 
I wish I could do something for him something worth while , I mean . 
But his request Really , I've nothing of the kind . 
I couldn't possibly place you at least , not at present perhaps , later on I understand , interrupted Susan . 
It would help him greatly if you would write him a few lines , saying you'll give me a place at the first vacancy , but that it may not be soon . 
I'll not trouble you again . 
I want the letter simply to carry him over the crisis . 
Fitzalan hesitated , rubbed his fuzzy crown with his jeweled hand . 
Tell him that , he said , finally . 
I'm rather careful about writing letters . 
Yes , say to him what you suggested , as if it was from me . 
The letter will make all the difference between his believing and not believing , urged Susan . 
He has great admiration and liking for you thinks you would do anything for him . 
Fitzalan frowned she saw that her insistence had roused or , rather , had strengthened suspicion . 
Really you must excuse me . 
What I've heard about him the past year has not But , no matter , I can't do it . 
You'll let me know how he's getting on ? Good day . 
Susan looked at him a straight glance from gray eyes , a slight smile hovering about her scarlet lips . 
He reddened , fussed with the papers before him on the desk from which he had not risen . 
She opened the door , closed it behind her . 
Brent was seated with his back full to her and was busy with his scribbling . 
She passed him , went on to the outer door . 
She was waiting for his voice she knew it would come . 
Miss Lenox ! As she turned he was advancing . 
His figure , tall and slim and straight , had the ease of movement which proclaims the man who has been everywhere and so is at home anywhere . 
He held out a card . 
I wish to see you on business . 
You can come at three this afternoon ? Yes , said Susan . 
Thanks , said he , bowing and returning to the table . 
She went on into the hall , the card between her fingers . 
At the elevator , she stood staring at the name Robert Brent as if it were an inscription in a forgotten language . 
She was so absorbed , so dazed that she did not ring the bell . 
The car happened to stop at that floor she entered as if it were dark . 
And , in the street , she wandered many blocks down Broadway before she realized where she was . 
She left the elevated and walked eastward through Grand Street . 
She was filled with a new and profound dissatisfaction . 
She felt like one awakening from a hypnotic trance . 
The surroundings , inanimate and animate , that had become endurable through custom abruptly resumed their original aspect of squalor and ugliness of repulsion and tragedy . 
A stranger the ordinary , unobservant , feebly imaginative person , going along those streets would have seen nothing but tawdriness and poverty . 
Susan , experienced , imaginative , saw all saw what another would have seen only after it was pointed out , and even then but dimly . 
And that day her vision was no longer staled and deadened by familiarity , but with vision fresh and with nerves acute . 
It hung upon the wall opposite the door . 
So , there she hung Susan's one prized possession . 
The question of dressing for this interview with Brent was most important . 
Susan gave it much thought before she began to dress , changed her mind again and again in the course of dressing . 
She finally chose the simplest of the half dozen summer dresses she had made for herself a plain white lawn , with a short skirt . 
To go with the dress she had a large hat of black rough straw with a very little white trimming on it . 
She felt that nothing was quite so effective for her skin as a white dress . 
In other colors though she did not realize the woman of bought kisses showed more distinctly never brazenly as in most of the girls , but still unmistakably . 
She washed the rouge from her lips , studied the effect in the glass . 
No , she said aloud , without it I feel like a hypocrite and I don't look half so well . 
And she put the rouge on again the scarlet dash drawn startlingly across her strange , pallid face . 
XII AT three that afternoon she stood in the vestibule of Brent's small house in Park Avenue overlooking the oblong of green between East Thirty seventh Street and East Thirty eighth . 
A most reputable looking Englishman in evening dress opened the door from her reading and her theater going she knew that this was a butler . 
There was a huge fireplace to the right a mirror filled the entire back wall a broad low seat ran all round the room . 
In one corner , an enormous urn of dark pottery in another corner , a suit of armor , the helmet , the breastplate and the gauntlets set with gold of ancient lackluster . 
The butler left her there and ascended the polished but dead finished stairway noiselessly . 
Susan had never before been in so grand a room . 
The grandiose New York hotels and restaurants were more showy and more pretentious far than this interior of Brent's . 
And without personality there can be no unity without unity there can be no harmony and without harmony , no beauty . 
Looking round her now , she had her first deep draught of esthetic delight in interior decoration . 
She loved this quiet dignity , this large simplicity nothing that obtruded , nothing that jarred , everything on the same scale of dark coloring and large size . 
In a curiously impersonal way her own sad , wistful face interested her . 
A human being's face is a summary of his career . 
But in some moods and in some lights we do get such an all comprehending view of ourselves in looking at our own faces . 
As she had instinctively felt , there was a world of meaning in the contrast between her pensive brow above melancholy eyes and the blood red line of her rouged lips . 
Mr. Brent is in his library , on the fourth floor , said he . 
Will you kindly step this way , ma'am ? Instead of indicating the stairway , he went to the panel next the chimney piece . 
She saw that it was a hidden door admitting to an elevator . 
She entered the door closed the elevator ascended rapidly . 
When it came to a stop the door opened and she was facing Brent . 
Thank you for coming , said he , with almost formal courtesy . 
For all her sudden shyness , she cast a quick but seeing look round . 
The huge window had a broad sill upon which was built a generous window garden fresh and lively with bright flowers . 
The woodwork , the ceiling , the furniture were of mahogany . 
The master of this splendid simplicity was dressed in a blue house suit of some summer material like linen . 
He was smoking a cigarette , and offered her one from the great carved wood box filled with them on the table desk . 
And when she had lighted it and was seated facing him as he sat at his desk , she felt almost at her ease . 
After all , while his gaze was penetrating , it was also understanding we do not mind being unmasked if the unmasker at once hails us as brother . 
Brent's eyes seemed to say to her , Human ! like me . 
She smoked and let her gaze wander from her books to window garden , from window garden to piano . 
You play ? said he . 
Enough for accompaniments to simple songs . 
You sing ? Simple songs . 
I've had but a few lessons from a small town teacher . 
She went to the piano , laid her cigarette in a tray ready beside the music rack . 
He somehow took away all feeling of embarrassment she felt so strongly that he understood and was big enough not to have it anywhere in him to laugh at anything sincere . 
When she finished she resumed her cigarette and returned to the chair near his . 
It's as I thought , said he . 
Your voice can be trained to speak , I mean . 
I don't know as to its singing value . 
Have you good health ? I never have even colds . 
I have needed it , said she . 
Into her face came the sad , bitter expression with its curious relief of a faint cynical smile . 
He leaned back in his chair and looked at her through a cloud of smoke . 
He said slowly When I saw you in the Martin you were on the way down . 
You went , I see . 
You like it ? You wish to stay ? She shook her head smilingly . 
No , but I can stay if it's necessary . 
I've discovered that I've got the health and the nerves for anything . 
Well , you'll soon be on your way up . 
Do you wish to know why I spoke to you this morning ? Why I remembered you ? Why ? Because of the expression of your eyes when your face is in repose . 
She felt no shyness and no sense of necessity of responding to a compliment , for his tone forbade any thought of flattery . 
She lowered her gaze to conceal the thoughts his words brought the memories of the things that had caused her eyes to look as Rod and now Brent said . 
Such an expression , the playwright went on , must mean character . 
I am sick and tired of the vanity of these actresses who can act just enough never to be able to learn to act well . 
I'm going to try an experiment with you . 
I've tried it several times but No matter . 
Can you stand being alone ? I spend most of my time alone . 
Only the few who can stand being alone ever get anywhere . 
Everything worth while is done alone . 
The big battle it isn't fought in the field , but by the man sitting alone in his tent , working it all out . 
The bridge the tunnel through the great mountains the railway the huge business enterprise all done by the man alone , thinking , plotting to the last detail . 
I saw that you were one of the lonely ones . 
All you need is a chance . 
You'd surely get it , sooner or later . 
Perhaps I can bring it a little sooner . 
How much do you need to live on ? I must have fifty dollars a week if I go on at as I am now . 
If you wish to take all my time then , forty . 
He smiled in a puzzled way . 
The police , she explained . 
I need ten Certainly certainly , cried he . 
How stupid of me ! I'll want all your time . 
So it's to be forty dollars a week . 
When can you begin ? Susan reflected . 
I can't go into anything that'll mean a long time , she said . 
I'm waiting for a man a friend of mine to get well . 
Then we're going to do something together . 
Brent made an impatient gesture . 
An actor ? Well , I suppose I can get him something to do . 
They'd rather die than give up their own feeble , foolish little identities . 
I'll see that your actor friend is taken care of , but you must keep away from him for the time at least . 
You care for him ? I used to . 
And lately I found him again after we had been separated a long time . 
We're going to help each other up . 
Oh he's down and out oh ? Why ? Drink and hard luck . 
It has made you what you are . 
What am I ? asked Susan . 
That's what we're going to find out , said he . 
There's no human being who has ever had a future unless he or she had a past and the severer the past the more splendid the future . 
Susan was attending with all her senses . 
This man was putting into words her own inarticulate instincts . 
A past , he went on in his sharp , dogmatic way , either breaks or makes . 
You go into the crucible a mere ore , a possibility . 
You come out slag or steel . 
He was standing now , looking down at her with quizzical eyes . 
You're about due to leave the pot , said he . 
And I've hopes that you're steel . 
If not He shrugged his shoulders You'll have had forty a week for your time , and I'll have gained useful experience . 
Susan gazed at him as if she doubted her eyes and ears . 
What do you want me to do ? she presently inquired . 
Learn the art of acting which consists of two parts . 
First , you must learn to act thousands of the profession do that . 
Second , you must learn not to act and so far I know there aren't a dozen in the whole world who've got that far along . 
I've written a play I think well of . 
I want to have it done properly it , and several other plays I intend to write . 
I'm going to give you a chance to become famous better still , great . 
Susan looked at him incredulously . 
Do you know who I am ? she asked at last . 
Her eyes lowered , the faintest tinge of red changed the amber white pallor of her cheeks , her bosom rose and fell quickly . 
I don't mean , he went on , that I know any of the details of your experience . 
I only know the results as they are written in your face . 
Of where you came from or how you've lived , I know nothing . 
And it's none of my business no more than it's the public's business where I came from and how I've learned to write plays . 
She eagerly tried to dismiss the thoughts that had been making her most uneasy . 
She said You think I can learn to act ? That , of course , replied he . 
Any intelligent person can learn to act and also most persons who have no more intelligence in their heads than they have in their feet . 
I'll guarantee you some sort of career . 
What I'm interested to find out is whether you can learn not to act . 
But He laughed in self mockery . 
I've made several absurd mistakes in that direction . 
Why is it you have not become a liar ? Susan laughed . 
I'm sure I don't know . 
Perhaps because lying is such a tax on the memory . 
May I have another cigarette ? He held the match for her . 
You don't paint except your lips , he went on , though you have no color . 
And you don't wear cheap finery . 
And while you use a strong scent , it's not one of the cheap and nasty kind it's sensual without being slimy . 
And you don't use the kind of words one always hears in your circle . 
Then you do know who I am ! she cried . 
You didn't suppose I thought you fresh from a fashionable boarding school , did you ? I'd hardly look there for an actress who could act . 
You've got experience experience experience written all over your face sadly , satirically , scornfully , gayly , bitterly . 
And what I want is experience not merely having been through things , but having been through them understandingly . 
You'll help me in my experiment ? He looked astonished , then irritated , when the girl , instead of accepting eagerly , drew back in her chair and seemed to be debating . 
His irritation showed still more plainly when she finally said That depends on him . 
And he he thinks you don't like him . 
What's his name ? said Brent in his abrupt , intense fashion . 
What's his name ? Spenser Roderick Spenser . 
He used to be on the Herald . 
Susan abruptly straightened , an ominous look in eyes and brow . 
Brent made an impatient gesture . 
Why be sensitive about him ? Obviously because you know I'm right . 
I said fool , not ass . 
He's clever , but ridiculously vain . 
I don't care anything about him or about anybody else in the world . 
No man does who amounts to anything . 
With a career it's as Jesus said leave father and mother , husband and wife land , ox everything and follow it . 
What for ? said Susan . 
To save your soul ! To be a somebody to be strong . 
To be able to give to anybody and everybody whatever they need . 
Are you happy ? No , he admitted . 
But I'm growing in that direction . 
Don't waste yourself on Stevens I beg pardon , Spenser . 
He's a small man with large dreams a hopeless misfit . 
Small dreams for small men large dreams for he laughed you and me our sort . 
Susan echoed his laugh , but faint heartedly . 
I've watched your name in the papers , she said , sincerely unconscious of flattery . 
I've seen you grow more and more famous . 
But if there had been anything in me , would I have gone down and down ? How old are you ? About twenty one . 
Only twenty one and that look in your face ! Magnificent ! I don't believe I'm to be disappointed this time . 
You ask why you've gone down ! You haven't . 
Down , she insisted , sadly . 
Nonsense ! The soot'll rub off the steel . 
She lifted her head eagerly . 
Her own secret thought put into words . 
You can't make steel without soot and dirt . 
You can't make anything without dirt . 
That's why the nice , prim , silly world's full of cabinets exhibiting little chips of raw material polished up neatly in one or two spots . 
That's why there are so few men and women and those few have had to make themselves , or are made by accident . 
You're an accident , I suppose . 
The women who amount to anything usually are . 
I'll not sink on that rock , said Susan cheerfully . 
No secret longing for social position ? None . 
Even if I would , I couldn't . 
That's one heavy handicap out of the way . 
But I'll not let myself begin to hope until I find out whether you've got incurable and unteachable vanity . 
If you have then , no hope . 
If you haven't there's a fighting chance . 
You forget my compact , Susan reminded him . 
Brent reflected , strolled to the big window , his hands deep in his pockets . 
Susan took advantage of his back to give way to her own feelings of utter amazement and incredulity . 
She certainly was not dreaming . 
And the man gazing out at the window was certainly flesh and blood a great man , if voluble and eccentric . 
Perhaps to act and speak as one pleased was one of the signs of greatness , one of its perquisites . 
Was this another such ? He wheeled suddenly , surprised her eyes upon him . 
He burst out laughing , and she felt that he had read her thoughts . 
However , he merely said Have you anything to suggest about Spenser ? I can't even tell him of your offer now . 
He's very ill and sensitive about you . 
About me ? How ridiculous ! I'm always coming across men I don't know who are full of venom toward me . 
I suppose he thinks I crowded him . 
You're sure you're not fancying yourself in love with him ? No , I am not in love with him . 
He has changed and so have I. He smiled at her . 
Especially in the last hour ? he suggested . 
I had changed before that . 
I had been changing right along . 
But I didn't realize it fully until you talked with me no , until after you gave me your card this morning . 
You saw a chance a hope eh ? She nodded . 
And at once became all nerves and courage . 
As to Spenser I'll have some play carpenter sent to collaborate with him and set him up in the play business . 
You know it's a business as well as an art . 
And the chromos sell better than the oil paintings except the finest ones . 
It's my chromos that have earned me the means and the leisure to try oils . 
Pride will consent to anything as a means to an end . 
It's vanity that's squeamish and haughty . 
But I couldn't discuss any change with him until he's much better . 
I'll send the play carpenter to him get Fitzalan to send one of his carpenters . 
You don't think he 'll hang back because of the compact , do you ? Susan flushed painfully . 
No , she admitted in a low voice . 
Brent was still smiling at her , and the smile was cynical . 
I know that , said Susan . 
Do you mind it ? Not much . 
I'd not mind it at all if I felt that I was somebody . 
Brent put his hand on her shoulder . 
You'll do , Miss Lenox , he said with quiet heartiness . 
You may not be so big a somebody as you and I would like . 
But you'll count as one , all right . 
She looked at him with intense appeal in her eyes . 
Why ? she said earnestly . 
I've been observing your uneasiness , said he . 
It would be impossible for you to judge me , to understand me . 
You are young and as yet small . 
I am forty , and have lived twenty five of my forty years intensely . 
So , don't fall into the error of shallow people and size me up by your own foolish little standards . 
Do you see what I mean ? Susan's candid face revealed her guilt . 
Yes , said she , rather humbly . 
I see you do understand , said he . 
And that's a good sign . 
But to proceed I have not chosen you on impulse . 
Long and patient study has made me able to judge character by the face , as a horse dealer can judge horses by looking at them . 
I don't need to read every line of a book to know whether it's wise or foolish , worth while or not . 
I don't need to know a human being for years or for hours or for minutes even , before I can measure certain things . 
An astronomer wants to get the orbit of a star . 
He takes its position twice and from the two observations he can calculate the orbit to the inch . 
I've got three observations of your orbit . 
I shan't misunderstand again , said Susan . 
One thing more , insisted Brent . 
In our relations , we are to be not man and woman , but master and pupil . 
I shan't waste your time with any other matters . 
It was Susan's turn to laugh . 
That's your polite way of warning me not to waste any of your time with other matters . 
A man in my position a man in any sort of position , for that matter is much annoyed by women trying to use their sex with him . 
I wished to make it clear at the outset that That I could gain nothing by neglecting the trade of actress for the trade of woman , interrupted Susan . 
He put out his hand . 
I see that at least we'll get on together . 
I'll have Fitzalan send the carpenter to your friend at once . 
Today ! exclaimed Susan , in surprise and delight . 
Why not ? He arranged paper and pen . 
Sit here and write Spenser's address , and your own . 
Your salary begins with today . 
I'll have my secretary mail you a check . 
And as soon as I can see you again , I'll send you a telegram . 
Meanwhile He rummaged among a lot of paper bound plays on the table Here's Cavalleria Rusticana . 
Read it with a view to yourself as either Santuzzao or Lola . 
Study her first entrance what you would do with it . 
I expect nothing from you nothing whatever . 
I'm glad you know nothing about acting . 
You'll have the less to unlearn . 
They had been moving towards the elevator . 
He shook hands again and , after adjusting the mechanism for the descent , closed the door . 
As it was closing she saw in his expression that his mind had already dismissed her for some one of the many other matters that crowded his life . 
XIII THE Susan Lenox who left Delancey Street at half past two that afternoon to call upon Robert Brent was not the Susan Lenox who returned to Delancey Street at half past five . 
He sees a gleam of light . 
So it was with Susan . 
Our social , our industrial system has made it far vaster . 
This vast mass floats hither and yon on the tides and currents of destiny . 
Now it halts , resting sluggishly in a dead calm again it moves , sometimes slowly , sometimes under the lash of tempest . 
But it is ever the same vast inertia , with no particle of it possessing an aim beyond keeping afloat and alive . 
Susan had been an atom , a spray of weed , in this Sargasso Sea . 
If you observe a huge , unwieldy crowd so closely packed that nothing can be done with it and it can do nothing with itself , you will note three different types . 
There are the entirely inert and they make up most of the crowd . 
They do not resist they helplessly move this way and that as the chance waves of motion prompt . 
Of this type is the overwhelming majority of the human race . 
Here and there in the mass you will see examples of a second type . 
These are individuals who are restive and resentful under the sense of helplessness and impotence . 
They struggle now gently , now furiously . 
They thrust backward or forward or to one side . 
But nothing comes of their efforts beyond a brief agitation , soon dying away in ripples . 
The inertia of the mass and their own lack of purpose conquer them . 
And the agitator is trampled down , disappears , perhaps silently , perhaps with groan or shriek . 
You are likely at first to confuse the third type with the second , for they seem to be much alike . 
Here and there , of the resentful strugglers , will be one whose resentment is intelligent . 
He struggles , but it is not aimless struggle . 
He has seen or suspected in a definite direction a point where he would be more or less free , perhaps entirely free . 
He realizes how he is hemmed in , realizes how difficult , how dangerous , will be his endeavor to get to that point . 
And he proceeds to try to minimize or overcome the difficulties , the dangers . 
He struggles now gently , now earnestly , now violently but always toward his fixed objective . 
He is driven back , to one side , is almost overwhelmed . 
He causes commotions that threaten to engulf him , and must pause or retreat until they have calmed . 
You may have to watch him long before you discover that , where other strugglers have been aimless , he aims and resolves . 
And little by little he gains , makes progress toward his goal and once in a long while one such reaches that goal . 
It is triumph , success . 
Susan , young , inexperienced , dazed now too despondent , now too hopeful now too gentle and again too infuriated Susan had been alternating between inertia and purposeless struggle . 
Brent had given her the thing she lacked had given her a definite , concrete , tangible purpose . 
And that was the Susan Lenox who came back to the little room in Delancey Street at half past five . 
Curiously , while she was thinking much about Brent , she was thinking even more about Burlingham about their long talks on the show boat and in their wanderings in Louisville and Cincinnati . 
His philosophy , his teachings the wisdom he had , but was unable to apply began to come back to her . 
Clara , dressed to go to dinner with her lover , was waiting to arrange about their meeting to make together the usual rounds in the evening . 
I've got an hour before I'm due at the hospital , said Susan . 
Let's go down to Kelly's for a drink . 
And they may raise us to fifteen a week , said Clara , though I doubt it . 
They'll not cut off their nose to spite their face . 
If they raised the rate for the streets they'd drive two thirds of the girls back to the factories and sweat shops . 
You're not listening , Lorna . 
Your fellow's not had a relapse ? No nothing . 
Need some money ? I can lend you ten . 
I did have twenty , but I gave Sallie and that little Jew girl who's her side partner ten for the bail bondsman . 
They got pinched last night for not paying up to the police . 
They've gone crazy about that prize fighter at least , he thinks he is that Joe O'Mara , and they're giving him every cent they make . 
She's a Catholic and goes to mass regular . 
And she keeps straight on Sunday no money'll tempt her I've seen it tried . 
Do you want the ten ? No. I've got plenty . 
We must look in at that Jolly Rovers' ball tonight . 
There'll be a lot of fellows with money there . 
We can sure pull off something pretty good . 
Anyhow , we'll have fun . 
But you don't care for the dances . 
Well , they are a waste of time . 
And because the men pay for a few bum drinks and dance with a girl , they don't want to give up anything more . 
How's she to live , I want to know ? Would you like to get out of this , Clara ? interrupted Susan , coming out of her absent mindedness . 
Would I ! But what's the use of talking ? But I mean , would you really ? Oh if there was something better . 
But is there ? I don't see how I'd be as well off , respectable . 
Nothing doing but charity and pity and the second table and the back door . 
I can make more money at this and have a better time , as long as my looks last . 
And I've turned down already a couple of chances to marry men that wouldn't have looked at me if I'd been in a store or a factory or living out . 
Don't do that , said Susan . 
Marriage makes brutes of men , and slaves of women . 
You speak as if you knew . 
I do , said Susan , in a tone that forbade question . 
I ain't exactly stuck on the idea myself , pursued Clara . 
Of course , there's chances against you in this business . 
But so there is in every business . 
The streets are full of wrecks from work and the hospitals and the graveyard over on the Island . 
You can always go to that slavery . 
But I mean a respectable life , with everything better . 
Has one of those swell women from uptown been after you ? No. This isn't a pious pipe dream . 
One of them swell silk smarties got at me when I was in the hospital with the fever . 
She was a bird she was . 
She handed me a line of grand talk , and I , being sort of weak with sickness , took it in . 
Well , when she got right down to business , what did she want me to do ? Be a dressmaker or a lady's maid . 
Me ! And when I said , No , thank you , what do you think ? Did she offer to get you a good home in the country ? said Susan . 
The country ! The nerve of her ! But I called her bluff , all right , all right . 
I says to her , Are you going to the country to live ? And she reared at me daring to question her , and said she wasn't . 
You'd find it dead slow , wouldn't you ? says I. And she kind o' laughed and looked almost human . 
Then , says I , no more am I going to the country . 
I'll take my chances in little old New York , I says . 
I should think so ! exclaimed Susan . 
I'd like to be respectable , if I could afford it . 
And when they say God' to me , I say , Who's he ? He must be somebody that lives up on Fifth Avenue . 
We ain't seen him down our way . 
I mean , go on the stage , resumed Susan . 
I wouldn't mind , if I could get in right . 
Everything in this world depends on getting in right . 
I was born four flights up in a tenement , and I've been in wrong ever since . 
I was in wrong from the beginning , too , said Susan , thoughtfully . 
In wrong that's it exactly . 
Clara's eyes again became eager with the hope of a peep into the mystery of Susan's origin . 
But Susan went on , Yes , I've always been in wrong . 
Oh , no , declared Clara . 
You've got education and manners and ladylike instincts . 
I was never so well off in my life . 
I'm , you might say , on my way up in the world . 
I belong anywhere and everywhere and nowhere , said Susan . 
Yes , I belong here . 
I've got a chance uptown . 
If it pans out , I'll let you in . 
Clara looked at her wistfully . 
Clara had a wicked temper when she was in liquor , and had the ordinary human proneness to lying , to mischievous gossip , and to utter laziness . 
Lorna , she now said , I do believe you like me a little . 
More than that , Susan assured her . 
You've saved me from being hard hearted . 
I must go to the hospital . 
So long ! How about this evening ? asked Clara . 
I've got something to do . 
Well I may be home early unless I go to the ball . 
Susan was refused admittance at the hospital . 
Spenser , they said , had received a caller , had taxed his strength enough for the day . 
Nor would it be worth while to return in the morning . 
The same caller was coming again . 
Spenser had said she was to come in the afternoon . 
She received this cheerfully , yet not without a certain sense of hurt which , however , did not last long . 
When she was admitted to Spenser the following afternoon , she faced him guiltily for the thoughts Brent had set to bubbling and boiling in her . 
And her guilt showed in the tone of her greeting , in the reluctance and forced intensity of her kiss and embrace . 
And this experience had developed her instinct for concealing her deep feelings into a fixed habit . 
So , had he been observing , he must have seen that something was wrong . 
But he was far too excited about his own affairs to note her . 
My luck's turned ! cried he , after kissing her with enthusiasm . 
Fitzalan has sent Jack Sperry to me , and we're to collaborate on a play . 
I told you Fitz was the real thing . 
Susan turned hastily away to hide her telltale face . 
Who's Sperry ? asked she , to gain time for self control . 
Oh , He's a play smith and a bear at it . 
He has knocked together half a dozen successes . 
He'll supply the trade experience that I lack , and Fitzalan will be sure to put on our piece . 
You're a lot better aren't you ? Better ? I'm almost well . 
He certainly had made a sudden stride toward health . 
By way of doing something progressive he had had a shave , and that had restored the look of youth to his face or , rather , had uncovered it . 
A strong , handsome face it was much handsomer than Brent's and with the subtle , moral weakness of optimistic vanity well concealed . 
Yes , much handsomer than Brent's , which wasn't really handsome at all yet was superbly handsomer , also the handsomeness that comes from being through and through a somebody . 
She saw again why she had cared for Rod so deeply but she also saw why she could not care again , at least not in that same absorbed , self effacing way . 
And a certain remnant of the feeling of comradeship , too . 
But never again utter belief , worshipful admiration or any other degree of belief or admiration beyond the mild and critical . 
Also , Brent's penetrating and just analysis of Spenser had put clearly before her precisely what he was precisely what she herself had been vaguely thinking of him . 
Moderate prosperity and moderate adversity bring out the best there is in a man the extreme of either brings out his worst . 
I'm not in love with Brent , thought Susan . 
But having known him , I can't ever any more care for Rod . 
He seems small beside Brent and he is small . 
Spenser in his optimistic dreaming aloud had reached a point where it was necessary to assign Susan a role in his dazzling career . 
You'll not have to go on the stage , said he . 
I'll look out for you . 
By next week Sperry and I will have got together a scenario for the play and when Sperry reads it to Fitzalan we'll get an advance of at least five hundred . 
So you and I will take a nice room and bath uptown as a starter and we'll be happy again happier than before . 
No , I'm going to support myself , said Susan promptly . 
Trash ! cried Spenser , smiling tenderly at her . 
Do you suppose I'd allow you to mix up in stage life ? You've forgotten how jealous I am of you . 
You don't know what I've suffered since I've been here sick , brooding over what you're doing , to She laid her fingers on his lips . 
What's the use of fretting about anything that has to be ? said she , smilingly . 
I'm going to support myself . 
You may as well make up your mind to it . 
Plenty of time to argue that out , said he , and his tone forecast his verdict on the arguing . 
And he changed the subject by saying , I see you still cling to your fad of looking fascinating about the feet . 
That was one of the reasons I never could trust you . 
A girl with as charming feet and ankles as you have , and so much pride in getting them up well , simply cannot be trustworthy . 
No , you were made to be taken care of , my dear . 
She did not press the matter . 
She had taken her stand that was enough for the present . 
After an hour with him , she went home to get herself something to eat on her gas stove . 
Spenser's confidence in the future did not move her even to the extent of laying out half a dollar on a restaurant dinner . 
Women have the habit of believing in the optimistic outpourings of egotistical men , and often hasten men along the road to ruin by proclaiming this belief and acting upon it . 
She had read it several times the night before , and again and again during the day . 
But not until now did she feel sufficiently calmed down from her agitations of thought and emotion to attack the play understandingly . 
Thanks to defective education the most enlightened of us go through life much like a dim sighted man who has no spectacles . 
Almost the whole of the wonderful panorama of the universe is unseen by us , or , if seen , is but partially understood or absurdly misunderstood . 
When the thing read is a play , almost no one can get from it a coherent notion of what it is about . 
Most of us have nothing that can justly be called imagination our early training at home and at school killed in the shoot that finest plant of the mind's garden . 
So there is no ability to fill in the picture which the dramatic author draws in outline . 
Susan had not seen Cavalleria Rusticana either as play or as opera . 
Spenser read scenes to her , got her to help him with criticism , and she was present when he went over his work with Drumley , Riggs , Townsend and the others . 
Thus , reading a play was no untried art to her . 
She read Cavalleria through slowly , taking about an hour to it . 
Santuzza or Lola ? Susan debated . 
Santuzza was the big and easy part Lola , the smaller part , was of the kind that is usually neglected . 
But Susan saw possibilities in the character of the woman who won Turiddu away the triumphant woman . 
The two women represented the two kinds of love the love that is serious , the love that is light . 
And experience had taught her why it is that human nature soon tires of intensity , turns to frivolity . 
So , it was not Santuzza's but Lola's first entrance that she studied . 
Until further notice a check for the same amount will be mailed you each Thursday . 
Unless you receive notice to the contrary , please call as before , at three o'clock next Wednesday . 
It made her nervous to think of those five days before she should see Brent . 
She must work every waking hour , except the two hours each day at the hospital . 
She recalled what Brent had said about the advantage of being contented alone and how everything worth doing must be done in solitude . 
She had never thought about her own feelings as to company and solitude , as it was not her habit to think about herself . 
There was Rod , for example . 
He hated being alone , must have someone around even when he was writing and he had no taste for order or system . 
She understood why it was so hard for him to stick at anything , to put anything through to the finish . 
She found Rod in higher spirits . 
Several ideas for his play had come to him he already saw it acted , successful , drawing crowded houses , bringing him in anywhere from five hundred to a thousand a week . 
She was not troubled hunting for things to talk about with him she , who could think of but one thing and that a secret from him . 
He talked his play , a steady stream with not a seeing glance at her or a question about her . 
She watched the little clock at the side of the bed . 
At the end of an hour to the minute , she interrupted him in the middle of a sentence . 
I must go now , said she , rising . 
Sit down , he cried . 
You can stay all day . 
The doctor says it will do me good to have you to talk with . 
And Sperry isn't coming until tomorrow . 
I can't do it , said she . 
He misunderstood her avoiding glance . 
Now , Susie sit down there , commanded he . 
We've got plenty of money . 
You you needn't bother about it any more . 
We're not settled yet , said she . 
Until we are , I'd not dare take the risk . 
She was subtly adroit by chance , not by design . 
Risk ! exclaimed he angrily . 
I've as good as got the advance money . 
Don't be angry , pleaded she in a voice that faltered . 
Into his eyes came the gleam of distrust and jealousy . 
Look at me , he ordered . 
With some difficulty she forced her eyes to meet his . 
Have you got a lover ? No. Then where do you get the money we're living on ? He counted on her being too humiliated to answer in words . 
Instead of the hanging head and burning cheeks he saw clear , steady eyes , heard a calm , gentle and dignified voice say In the streets . 
His eyes dropped and a look of abject shame made his face pitiable . 
Good Heavens , he muttered . 
How low we are ! We've been doing the best we could , said she simply . 
Isn't there any decency anywhere in you ? he flashed out , eagerly seizing the chance to forget his own shame in contemplating her greater degradation . 
She looked out of the window . 
There was something terrible in the calmness of her profile . 
She finally said in an even , pensive voice You have been intimate with a great many women , Rod . 
But you have never got acquainted with a single one . 
Oh , yes , I have . 
I've learned that every woman is at heart a rake , as Mr. Jingle Pope says . 
She looked at him again , her face now curiously lighted by her slow faint smile . 
Perhaps they showed you only what they thought you'd be able to appreciate , she suggested . 
He took this as evidence of her being jealous of him . 
He told me he knew no reason . 
So Drumley had decided it was best Rod should not know why she left . 
Well , perhaps probably Drumley was right . 
But there was no reason why he shouldn't know the truth now . 
I left , said she , because I saw we were bad for each other . 
She saw that he did not believe . 
It wounded her , but she smiled carelessly . 
Her smile encouraged him to say I couldn't quite make up my mind whether the reason was jealousy or because you had the soul of a shameless woman . 
You see , I know human nature , and I know that a woman who once crosses the line never crosses back . 
I'll always have to watch you , my dear . 
But somehow I like it . 
I guess you have you and I have a rotten streak in us . 
We were brought up too strictly . 
That always makes one either too firm or too loose . 
I used to think I liked good women . 
Or that your idea of what's good is is mistaken . 
You don't pretend that you haven't done wrong ? cried Rod . 
I might have done worse , replied she . 
I might have wronged others . 
No , Rod , I can't honestly say I've ever felt wicked . 
Why , what brought you here ? She reflected a moment , then smiled . 
Two things brought me down , said she . 
In the first place , I wasn't raised right . 
I was raised as a lady instead of as a human being . 
So I didn't know how to meet the conditions of life . 
In the second place her smile returned , broadened I was too too what's called good . 
Pity about you ! mocked he . 
In most lines , to practice what we're taught as children would be to go to the bottom like a stone . 
You know this is a hard world , Rod . 
It's full of men and women fighting desperately for food and clothes and a roof to cover them fighting each other . 
And to get on you've got to have the courage and the indifference to your fellow beings that'll enable you to do it . 
There's a lot of truth in that , admitted Spenser . 
It was at the tip of Susan's tongue to say , Yes strong able to help others able to do things worth while . 
But she did not speak . 
Rod went on I'm not going to be a fool any longer . 
I'm going to be too busy to have friends or to help people or to do anything but push my own interests . 
Susan , indifferent to being thus wholly misunderstood , was again moving toward the door . 
I'll be back this evening , as usual , said she . 
Spenser's face became hard and lowering You're going to stay here now , or you're not coming back , said he . 
You can take your choice . 
Do you want me to know you've got the soul of a streetwalker ? She stood at the foot of the bed , gazing at the wall above his head . 
I must earn our expenses until we're safe , said she , once more telling a literal truth that was yet a complete deception . 
Why do you fret me ? exclaimed he . 
Do you want me to be sick again ? Suppose you didn't get the advance right away , urged she . 
I tell you I shall get it ! And I won't have you do as you are doing . 
If you go , you go for keeps . 
Do you want me to read or take dictation ? His face expressed the satisfaction small people find in small successes at asserting authority . 
Don't be angry , said he . 
I'm acting for your good . 
I'm saving you from yourself . 
I'm not angry , replied she , her strange eyes resting upon him . 
Now what does that look mean ? he demanded with an uneasy laugh . 
She smiled , shrugged her shoulders . 
Didn't I tell you ! said Spenser to Susan , in triumph . 
Go pack your traps and put them in a carriage , and by the time you're back here Sperry and the nurses will have me ready . 
It was about three when Susan got to her room . 
Clara heard her come in and soon appeared , bare feet in mules , hair hanging every which way . 
Despite the softening effect of the white nightdress and of the framing of abundant hair , her face was hard and coarse . 
She had been drunk on liquor and on opium the night before , and the effects were wearing off . 
Hello , Lorna , said she . 
Gee , what a bun my fellow and I had on last night ! Did you hear us scrapping when we came in about five o'clock ? No , replied Susan . 
I was up late and had a lot to do , and was kept at the hospital all day . 
I guess I must have fallen asleep . 
He gave me an awful beating , pursued Clara . 
But I got one good crack at him with a bottle . 
I don't think he'll be doing much flirting till his cheek heals up . 
He looks a sight ! She opened her nightdress and showed Susan a deep blue black mark on her left breast . 
I wonder if I'll get cancer from that ? said she . 
It'd be just my rotten luck . 
I've heard of several cases of it lately , and my father kicked my mother there , and she got cancer . 
Lord , how she did suffer ! Susan shivered , turned her eyes away . 
How fortunate that few of these unhappy ones had the imagination to realize their own wretchedness ! I don't care what becomes of me , Clara was saying . 
Why , you're packing up ! cried Clara . 
My friend's well enough to be moved . 
We're going to live uptown . 
Right away ? This afternoon . 
Clara dropped into a chair and began to weep . 
I'll miss you something fierce ! sobbed she . 
You're the only friend in the world I give a damn for , or that gives a damn for me . 
I wish to God I was like you . 
Oh , yes , I do , dear , cried Susan . 
But , I mean , you don't lean on anybody . 
I don't mean you're hard hearted for you ain't . 
You've pulled me and a dozen other girls out of the hole lots of times . 
Can't you take me along ? I can drop that bum across the hall . 
I don't give a hoot for him . 
But a girl's got to make believe she cares for somebody or she'd blow her brains out . 
I can't take you along , but I'm going to come for you as soon as I'm on my feet , said Susan . 
I've got to get up myself first . 
I've learned at least that much . 
Oh , you'll forget all about me . 
And Clara knew that she would not . 
Moaned Clara , I'm not fit to go . 
I'm only a common streetwalker . 
You're going back to your own . 
I wish to God I was like most of the people down here , and didn't have any sense . 
No wonder you used to drink so ! I'm getting that way , too . 
The only people that don't hit the booze hard down here are the muttonheads who don't know nothing and can't learn nothing . 
I used to be contented . 
But somehow , being with you so much has made me dissatisfied . 
That means you're on your way up , said Susan , busy with her packing . 
It would , if I had sense enough . 
Oh , it's torment to have sense enough to see , and not sense enough to do ! I'll come for you soon , said Susan . 
You're going up with me . 
Clara watched her for some time in silence . 
You're sure you're going to win ? said she , at last . 
Oh , you can't be as sure as that . 
Yes , but I can , laughed she . 
I've made up my mind to get up in the world with my self respect if possible if not , then without it . 
I'm going to have everything money , comfort , luxury , pleasure . 
Everything ! And she dropped a folded skirt emphatically upon the pile she had been making , and gave a short , sharp nod . 
I was taught a lot of things when I was little things about being sweet and unselfish and all that . 
They'd be fine , if the world was Heaven . 
Not exactly , said Clara . 
Maybe they're fine , if you want to get to Heaven , continued Susan . 
But I'm not trying to get to Heaven . 
I'm trying to live on earth . 
I don't like the game , and I don't like its rules . 
But it's the only game , and I can't change the rules . 
So I'm going to follow them at least , until I get what I want . 
Do you mean to say you've got any respect for yourself ? said Clara . 
And I don't see how any girl in our line can have . 
I thought I hadn't , was Susan's reply , until I talked with with someone I met the other day . 
If you slipped and fell in the mud or were thrown into it you wouldn't say , I'm dirty through and through . 
I can never get clean again' would you ? But that's different , objected Clara . 
Not a bit , declared Susan . 
If you look around this world , you'll see that everybody who ever moved about at all has slipped and fallen in the mud or has been pushed in . 
Mostly pushed in , assented Susan . 
And those that have good sense get up as soon as they can , and wash as much of the mud off as'll come off maybe all and go on . 
The fools they worry about the mud . 
But not I not any more ! . 
And not you , my dear when I get you uptown . 
Clara was now looking on Susan's departure as a dawn of good luck for herself . 
She took a headache powder , telephoned for a carriage , and helped carry down the two big packages that contained all Susan's possessions worth moving . 
And they kissed each other good by with smiling faces . 
Susan did not give Clara , the loose tongued , her new address nor did Clara , conscious of her own weakness , ask for it . 
Don't put yourself out about me , cried Clara in farewell . 
Get a good tight grip yourself , first . 
That's advice I need , answered Susan . 
And there at the basement window drooled and cackled the fat idiot girl whose mother sacrificed everything always to dress her freshly in pink . 
Stay and help ? As well stay to put out a conflagration barehanded and alone . 
As the carriage reached wider Second Avenue , the horses broke into a trot . 
Susan drew a long breath of the purer air then shuddered as she saw the corner where the dive into which the cadet had lured her flaunted its telltale awnings . 
Lower still her spirits sank when she was passing , a few blocks further on , the music hall . 
There , too , she had had a chance , had let hope blaze high . 
This time I will fight ! And I feel at last that I can . 
But her spirits soared no more that day . 
XIV SPERRY had chosen for Mr. and Mrs. Spenser the second floor rear of a house on the south side of West Forty fifth Street a few doors off Sixth Avenue . 
There was a marble stationary washstand behind the hand embroidered screen in the corner , near one of the two windows . 
Through a deep clothes closet was a small but satisfactory bathroom . 
And it's warm in winter , said Mrs. Norris , the landlady , to Susan . 
Don't you hate a cold bathroom ? Susan declared that she did . 
There's only one thing I hate worse , said Mrs. Norris , and that's cold coffee . 
She had one of those large faces which look bald because the frame of hair does not begin until unusually far back . 
At fifty , when her hair would be thin , Mrs. Norris would be homely but at thirty she was handsome in a bold , strong way . 
Her hair was always carefully done , her good figure beautifully corseted . 
Whatever the truth as to Mrs. Norris's domestic life , she carried herself strictly and insisted upon keeping her house as respectable as can reasonably be expected in a large city . 
That is , everyone in it was quiet , was of steady and sedate habit , was backed by references . 
Not until Sperry had thoroughly qualified as a responsible person did Mrs. Norris accept his assurances as to the Spensers and consent to receive them . 
Downtown the apartment houses that admit persons of loose character are usually more expensive because that class of tenants have more and expect more than ordinary working people . 
Uptown the custom is the reverse to get into a respectable house you must pay more . 
What's left of the two hundred and fifty will not last long , said Spenser to Susan , when they were established and alone . 
But we'll have another five hundred as soon as the play's done , and that'll be in less than a month . 
In less than two months the play'll be on and the royalties will be coming in . 
I wonder how much I owe the doctor and the hospital . 
That's settled , said Susan . 
He glanced at her with a frown . 
How much was it ? You had no right to pay ! You couldn't have got either doctor or room without payment in advance . 
She spoke tranquilly , with a quiet assurance of manner that was new in her , the nervous and sensitive about causing displeasure in others . 
She added , Don't be cross , Rod . 
You know it's only pretense . 
Don't you believe anybody has any decency ? demanded he . 
It depends on what you mean by decency , replied she . 
But why talk of the past ? Let's forget it . 
I would that I could ! exclaimed he . 
She laughed at his heroics . 
Put that in your play , said she . 
But this isn't the melodrama of the stage . 
It's the farce comedy of life . 
How you have changed ! Has all the sweetness , all the womanliness , gone out of your character ? She showed how little she was impressed . 
I've learned to take terrible things really terrible things without making a fuss or feeling like making a fuss . 
You can't expect me to get excited over mere staginess . 
They're fond of fake emotions up in this part of town . 
But down where I've been so long the real horrors come too thick and fast for there to be any time to fake . 
He continued to frown , presently came out of a deep study to say , Susie , I see I've got to have a serious talk with you . 
Wait till you're well , my dear , said she . 
I'm afraid I'll not be very sympathetic with your seriousness . 
And our relations worry me , whenever I think of them . 
To begin , I want you to stop rouging your lips . 
It's the only sign of of what you were . 
I'd a little rather you didn't smoke . 
But as respectable women smoke nowadays , why I don't seriously object . 
And when you get more clothes , get quieter ones . 
Not that you dress loudly or in bad taste Thank you , murmured Susan . 
What did you say ? I didn't mean to interrupt . 
I admire the way you dress , but it makes me jealous . 
I want you to have nice clothes for the house . 
I like things that show your neck and suggest your form . 
But I don't want you attracting men's eyes and their loose thoughts , in the street . 
And I don't want you to look so damnably alluring about the feet . 
That's your best trick and your worst . 
Why are you smiling in that fashion ? You talk to me as if I were your wife . 
He gazed at her with an expression that was as affectionate as it was generous and it was most generous . 
Well , you may be some day if you keep straight . 
And I think you will . 
The artificial red of her lips greatly helped to make her sweetly smiling face the perfection of gentle irony . 
And you ? said she . 
You know perfectly well it's different about a man . 
I know nothing of the sort , replied she . 
Among certain kinds of people that is the rule . 
But I'm not of those kinds . 
I'm trying to make my way in the world , exactly like a man . 
So I've got to be free from the rules that may be all very well for ladies . 
I've taken you out of the unprotected woman class , my dear , he reminded her . 
You're mine , now , and you're going back where you belong . 
Back to the cage it's taken me so long to learn to do without ? She shook her head . 
No , Rod I couldn't possibly do it not if I wanted to . 
You've got several false ideas about me . 
You'll have to get rid of them , if we're to get along . 
For instance ? In the first place , don't delude yourself with the notion that I'd marry you . 
I don't know whether the man I was forced to marry is dead or whether he's got a divorce . 
No matter how free I was I shouldn't marry you . 
She noted it without irritation . 
Truly , small indeed is the heat of any kind that can be got from the warmed up ashes of a burnt out passion . 
She went easily on You have nothing to offer me neither love nor money . 
And a woman unless she's a poor excuse insists on one or the other . 
You and I fancied we loved each other for a while . 
We don't fool ourselves in that way now . 
At least I don't , though I believe you do imagine I'm in love with you . 
You wouldn't be here if you weren't . 
Put that out of your head , Rod . 
I don't like to say these things to you , but you compel me to . 
I learned long ago how foolish it is to put off unpleasant things that will have to be faced in the end . 
The longer they're put off the worse the final reckoning is . 
Most of my troubles have come through my being too weak or good natured or whatever it was to act as my good sense told me . 
I'm not going to make that mistake any more . 
And I'm going to start the new deal with absolute frankness with you . 
I am not in love with you . 
I know you better than you know yourself , said he . 
For a little while after I found you again I did have a return of the old feeling or something like it . 
I know you too well . 
He struggled hard with his temper , as his vanity lashed at it . 
She saw , struggled with her old sensitiveness about inflicting even necessary pain upon others , went on I simply like you , Rod and that's all . 
You're physically attractive to me not wildly so , but enough more than any other man probably more than most husbands are to their wives or most wives to their husbands . 
So as long as you treat me well and don't wander off to other women , I'm more than willing to stay on here . 
Really ! said he , in an intensely sarcastic tone . 
Really ! Now keep your temper , she warned . 
Didn't I keep mine when you were handing me that impertinent talk about how I should dress and the rest of it ? No let me finish . 
In the second place and in conclusion , my dear Rod , I'm not going to live off you . 
I'll pay my half of the room . 
I'll pay for my own clothes and rouge for my lips . 
I'll buy and cook what we eat in the room you'll pay when we go to a restaurant . 
Are you quite sure ? inquired he with much satire . 
Yes , I think so . 
Except if you don't like my terms , I'm ready to leave at once . 
And go back to the streets , I suppose ? jeered he . 
If it were necessary yes . 
So long as I've got my youth and my health , I'll do precisely as I please . 
I've no craving for respectability not the slightest . 
I I She tried to speak of her birth , that secret shame of which she was ashamed . 
She had been thinking that Brent's big fine way of looking at things had cured her of this bitterness . 
She found that it had not as yet . 
But if I have to take tyranny along with the friendship she looked at him quietly and her tones were almost tender , almost appealing then , it's good by , Rod . 
She had silenced him , for he saw in her eyes , much more gray than violet though the suggestion of violet was there , that she meant precisely what she said . 
He was astonished , almost dazed by the change in her . 
This woman grown was not the Susie who had left him . 
No and yet She had left him , hadn't she ? That showed a character completely hidden from him , perhaps the character he was now seeing . 
Forty dollars a week ! You ! He scowled savagely at her . 
There's only one thing anyone would pay you forty a week for . 
That's what I'd have said , rejoined she . 
But it seems not to be true . 
My luck may not last , but while it lasts , I'll have forty a week . 
I don't believe you , said he , with the angry bluntness of jealousy . 
Then you want me to go ? inquired she , with a certain melancholy but without any weakness . 
He demanded Who's giving it to you ? Brent . 
Spenser leaned from the bed toward her in his excitement . 
Robert Brent ? he cried . 
I'm to have a part in one of his plays . 
What rot ! You're his mistress . 
It wouldn't be strange for you to think I'd accept that position for so little , but you must know a man of his sort wouldn't have so cheap a mistress . 
He is to train me himself . 
You never told me you knew him . 
Who got you the job ? He saw me in Fitzalan's office the day you sent me there . 
He asked me to call , and when I went he made me the offer . 
What reason did he give ? He said I looked as if I had the temperament he was in search of . 
You must take me for a fool . 
Why should I lie to you ? God knows . 
Why do women lie to men all the time ? For the pleasure of fooling them . 
To get money , Rod the best reason in the world , it being rather hard for a woman to make money by working for it . 
The man's in love with you ! I wish he were , said Susan , laughing . 
I'd not be here , my dear you may be sure of that . 
And I'd not content myself with forty a week . 
Oh , you don't know what tastes I've got ! Wait till I turn myself loose . 
Well you can in a few months , said Spenser . 
I hope so , said Susan . 
I feel like a fool believing such a fairy story as you've been telling me . 
That's good , laughed she . 
If you hadn't believed me , I'd have had to go . 
And I don't want to do that not yet . 
Not yet ? What does that mean ? It means I'm content to stay , at present . 
Who can answer for tomorrow ? Her eyes lit up mockingly . 
He laughed , but not heartily . 
Sperry came , and Susan went to buy at a department store a complete outfit for Rod , who still had only nightshirts . 
When she got back home two hours and a half later , bringing her purchases in a cab , Sperry had gone and Rod was asleep . 
She sat in the bathroom , with the gas lighted , and worked at Cavalleria until she heard him calling . 
He had awakened in high good humor . 
That was an awful raking you gave me before Sperry came , began he . 
But it did me good . 
A man gets so in the habit of ordering women about that it becomes second nature to him . 
You've made it clear to me that I've even less control over you than you have over me . 
So , dear , I'm going to be humble and try to give satisfaction , as servants say . 
You'd better , laughed Susan . 
At least , until you get on your feet again . 
You say we don't love each other , Rod went on , a becoming brightness in his strong face . 
But we suit each other don't we ? That's why I want to stay , said Susan , sitting on the bed and laying her hand caressingly upon his . 
I could stand it to go , for I've been trained to stand anything everything . 
He put his arm round her , drew her against his breast . 
Aren't you happy here ? he murmured . 
Happier than any place else in the world , replied she softly . 
After a while she got a small dinner for their two selves on the gas stove she had brought with her and had set up in the bathroom . 
As they ate , she cross legged on the bed opposite him , they beamed contentedly at each other . 
Do you remember the dinner we had at the St . 
Nicholas in Cincinnati ? asked she . 
It wasn't as good as this , declared he . 
Not nearly so well cooked . 
You could make a fortune as a cook . 
But then you do everything well . 
Even to rouging my lips ? Oh , forget it ! laughed he . 
There's a wonderful fascination in the contrast between the dash of scarlet and the pallor of that clear , lovely skin of yours . 
You are getting well ! she exclaimed . 
I'm sorry I bought you clothes . 
I'll be uneasy every time you're out . 
I see I've got to hustle to keep my job with you . 
Well , thank God , your friend Brent's old enough to be your father . 
Is he ? cried Susan . 
Do you know , I never thought of his age . 
Yes , he's forty at least more . 
Are you sure he isn't after you , Susie ? He warned me that if I annoyed him in that way he'd discharge me . 
Do you like him ? I don't know was Susan's slow , reflective answer . 
I'm afraid of him a little . 
Finally Rod said , with an impatient shake of the head , Let's not think of him . 
Let's try on your new clothes , cried Susan . 
And when the dishes were cleared away they had a grand time trying on the things she had bought . 
It was amazing how near she had come to fitting him . 
You ought to feel flattered , said she . 
Only a labor of love could have turned out so well . 
He turned abruptly from admiring his new suit in the glass and caught her in his arms . 
You do love me you do ! he cried . 
No woman would have done all you've done for me , if she didn't . 
For answer , Susan kissed him passionately and as her body trembled with the sudden upheaval of emotions long dormant or indulged only in debased , hateful ways , she burst into tears . 
It lacked five minutes of three . 
She walked slowly , timed herself so accurately that , as the butler opened the door , a cathedral chime hidden somewhere in the upper interior boomed the hour musically . 
The man took her direct to the elevator , and when it stopped at the top floor , Brent himself opened the door , as before . 
The woman gave Susan a searching , feminine look which changed swiftly to superciliousness . 
Both the man and the woman were loath to go , evidently had not finished what they had come to say . 
But Brent , in his abrupt but courteous way , said Tomorrow at four , then . 
As you see , my next appointment has begun . 
And he had them in the elevator with the door closed . 
He turned upon Susan the gaze that seemed to take in everything . 
You are in better spirits , I see , said he . 
I'm sorry to have interrupted , said she . 
But I couldn't , replied he . 
Some day you'll discover that your time is valuable , and that to waste it is far sillier than if you were to walk along throwing your money into the gutter . 
Time ought to be used like money spent generously but intelligently . 
Because I systematize my time , I'm never in a hurry , never at a loss for time to give to whatever I wish . 
I didn't refuse to keep you waiting for your sake but for my own . 
What did you do with the play ? Susan could only look at him helplessly . 
He laughed , handed her a cigarette , rose to light a match for her . 
Settle yourself comfortably , said he , and say what's in your head . 
With hands deep in the trousers of his house suit , he paced up and down the long room , the cigarette loose between his lips . 
The full face was kind , if keen was sympathetic was the man as nature had made him . 
The profile was the great man the man his career had made . 
And Susan knew that the profile was master . 
Which part did you like Santuzza or Lola ? Lola , replied she . 
He paused , looked at her quickly . 
Why ? Oh , I don't sympathize with the woman or the man who's deserted . 
I pity , but I can't help seeing it's her or his own fault . 
Vain and selfish ? That's interesting . 
He walked up and down several times , then turned on her abruptly . 
Well go on , he said . 
I'm waiting to hear why she was vain and selfish . 
But the women are meaner than the men , replied she , because they're more ignorant and narrow minded . 
He was regarding her with an expression that made her uneasy . 
But that isn't in the play none of it , said he . 
Well , it ought to be , replied she . 
Santuzza is the old fashioned conventional heroine . 
I used to like them until I had lived a little , myself . 
She isn't true to life . 
But in Lola Yes what about Lola ? he demanded . 
Oh , she wasn't a heroine , either . 
She was just human taking happiness when it offered . 
And her gayety and her capriciousness . 
A man will always break away from a solemn , intense woman to get that sort of sunshine . 
Yes yes go on , said Brent . 
And her sour , serious , solemn husband explains why wives are untrue to their husbands . 
At least , it seems so to me . 
He was walking up and down again . 
Every trace of indolence , of relaxation , was gone from his gait and from his features . 
His mind was evidently working like an engine at full speed . 
You've given me a big idea , said he . 
I'll throw away the play I was working on . 
Susan laughed pleased , yet a little afraid he was kinder than she deserved . 
What I said was only common sense what my experience has taught me . 
That's all that genius is , my dear , replied he . 
As soon as we're born , our eyes are operated on so that we shall never see anything as it is . 
The geniuses are those who either escape the operation or are reendowed with true sight by experience . 
He nodded approvingly at her . 
You're going to be a person or , rather , you're going to show you're a person . 
You thought of Lola as your part ? I tried to . 
But I don't know anything about acting except what I've seen and the talk I've heard . 
As I said the other day , that means you've little to learn . 
Now as to Lola's entrance . 
Santuzza had had her chance , and had failed . 
You seem to forget that Lola was a married woman and that if Santuzza didn't get a husband she'd be the mother of a fatherless child . 
Never had he seen in her face such a charm of sweet melancholy as at that moment . 
I suppose the way I was born and the life I've led make me think less of those things than most people do , replied she . 
I was talking about natural hearts what people think inside the way they act when they have courage . 
When they have courage , Brent repeated reflectively . 
But who has courage ? A great many people are compelled to have it , said she . 
I never had it until I got enough money to be independent . 
I never had it , said Susan , until I had no money . 
He leaned against the big table , folded his arms on his chest , looked at her with eyes that made her feel absolutely at ease with him . 
Said he You have known what it was to have no money none ? Susan nodded . 
And no friends no place to sleep worse off than Robinson Crusoe when the waves threw him on the island . 
I had to to suck my own blood to keep alive . 
You smile as you say that , said he . 
If I hadn't learned to smile over such things , she answered , I'd have been dead long ago . 
He seated himself opposite her . 
He asked Why didn't you kill yourself ? I was afraid . 
Of the hereafter ? Oh no . 
Of missing the coming true of my dreams about life . 
Love ? That and more . 
Just love wouldn't satisfy me . 
I want to see the world to know the world and to be somebody . 
I want to try everything . 
She laughed gayly a sudden fascinating vanishing of the melancholy of eyes and mouth , a sudden flashing out of young beauty . 
I've been down about as deep as one can go . 
I want to explore in the other direction . 
Yes yes , said Brent , absently . 
You must see it all . 
He remained for some time in a profound reverie , she as unconscious of the passing of time as he for if he had his thoughts , she had his face to study . 
Try as she would , she could not associate the idea of age with him any age . 
He seemed simply a grown man . 
And the more closely she studied him the greater her awe became . 
He knew so much he understood so well . 
Then this day week at the same hour we will begin . 
We will work all afternoon we will dine together go to some theater where I can illustrate what I mean . 
Beginning with next Wednesday that will be the program every day until further notice . 
Until you see whether you can do anything with me or not ? Just so . 
You are living with Spenser ? Yes . 
Susan could have wished his tone less matter of fact . 
How is he getting on ? He and Sperry are doing a play for Fitzalan . 
If he'll learn of Sperry and talk less and work more , and steadily , he'll make a lot of money . 
You are not tied to him in any way ? No not now that he's prospering . 
Except , of course , that I'm fond of him . 
Oh , everybody must have somebody . 
You've not seen this house . 
I'll show it to you , as we've still fifteen minutes . 
A luxurious house it was filled with things curious and , some of them , beautiful things gathered in excursions through Europe , Susan assumed . 
The only absolutely simple room was his bedroom , big and bare and so arranged that he could sleep practically out of doors . 
She saw servants two men besides the butler , several women . 
But the house was a bachelor's house , with not a trace of feminine influence . 
Small people strive to make , and do make , impression of themselves by laboring to show what they know and think . 
But the person of the larger kind makes no such effort . 
In everything Brent said and did and wore , in all his movements , gestures , expressions , there was the unmistakable hallmark of the man worth while . 
The social life has banished simplicity from even the most savage tribe . 
Indeed , savages , filled with superstitions , their every movement the result of some notion of proper ceremonial , are the most complex of all the human kind . 
With her instinct for recognizing the best at first sight , Susan at once understood . 
And she was like one who has been stumbling about searching for the right road , and has it suddenly shown to him . 
She fairly darted along this right road . 
She was immediately busy , noting the mistakes in her own ideas of manners and dress , of good and bad taste . 
She realized how much she had to learn . 
But this did not discourage her . 
For she realized at the same time that she could learn and his obvious belief in her as a possibility was most encouraging . 
XV SPENSER had time and thought for his play only . 
Spenser , in spirits and in hope again , was content with himself . 
Jealousy of Brent about Susan had been born of dissatisfaction with himself as a failure and envy of Brent as a success it died with that dissatisfaction and that envy . 
The idea that Susan would give a sentimental thought to a man old enough to be her father Brent was forty one was too preposterous to present itself to his mind . 
She loved the handsome , fascinating , youthful Roderick Spenser she would soon be crazy about him . 
Rarely does it occur to a man to wonder what a woman is thinking . 
During courtship very young men attribute intellect and qualities of mystery and awe to the woman they love . 
He asked this question at breakfast the morning after that second visit to Brent . 
Was I thinking ? she countered . 
You certainly were not listening . 
You haven't a notion what I was talking about . 
You know I talk nothing else , laughed he . 
I must bore you horribly . 
No , indeed , protested she . 
No , I suppose not . 
You're not bored because you don't listen . 
He was cheerful about it . 
He assumed that she was as worshipful before his intellect as in the old days . 
There you go again ! cried he , a few minutes later . 
What are you thinking about ? I forgot to ask how you got on with Brent . 
Poor chap he's had several failures in the past year . 
He must be horribly cut up . 
They say he's written out . 
What does he think he's trying to get at with you ? Acting , as I told you , replied Susan . 
She felt ashamed for him , making this pitiable exhibition of patronizing a great man . 
Sperry tells me he has had that twist in his brain for a long time that he has tried out a dozen girls or more drops them after a few weeks or months . 
He has a regular system about it runs away abroad , stops the pay after a month or so . 
Well , the forty a week's clear gain while it lasts , said Susan . 
She tried to speak lightly . 
But she felt hurt and uncomfortable . 
Oh , I didn't mean to suggest that you wouldn't succeed , Spenser hastened to apologize with more or less real kindliness . 
Sperry says Brent has some good ideas about acting . 
I hope so , said Susan absently . 
For , it so happened that at the moment Susan was concentrating on a new dress . 
Yet that would have been the literal truth . 
Primarily man's appeal is to the ear , woman's to the eye the reason , by the way , why the theater preeminently the place to see tends to be dominated by woman . 
Susan had made up her mind not only that she would rapidly improve herself in every way , but also how she would go about the improving . 
She saw that , for a woman at least , dress is as much the prime essential as an arresting show window for a dealer in articles that display well . 
She knew she was far from the goal of which she dreamed the position where she would no longer be a woman primarily but a personage . 
Dress would not merely increase her physical attractiveness it would achieve the far more important end of gaining her a large measure of consideration . 
However , to strengthen herself in every way with him was obviously the wisest effort she could make . 
So , she must have a new dress for the next meeting , one which would make him better pleased to take her out to dinner . 
True , if she came in rags , he would not be disturbed for he had nothing of the snob in him . 
But at the same time , if she came dressed like a woman of his own class , he would be impressed . 
He's a man , if he is a genius , reasoned she . 
Vital though the matter was , she calculated that she did not dare spend more than twenty five dollars on this toilet . 
Thus , to lay out twenty five dollars on a single costume was a wild extravagance . 
She thought it over from every point of view she decided that she must take the risk . 
Late in the afternoon she walked for an hour in Fifth Avenue . 
After some hesitation she ventured into the waiting and dressing rooms of several fashionable hotels . 
She was in search of ideas for the dress , which must be in the prevailing fashion . 
She appreciated her limitations in such matters how far she as yet was from the knowledge necessary to forming a permanent and self expressive style . 
She was prepared to be most cautious in giving play to an individual taste so imperfectly educated as hers had necessarily been . 
She felt that she had the natural instinct for the best and could recognize it on sight an instinct without which no one can go a step forward in any of the arts . 
She had long since learned to discriminate among the vast masses of offering , most of them tasteless or commonplace , to select the rare and few things that have merit . 
On that momentous day , she finally saw a woman dressed in admirable taste who was wearing a costume simple enough for her to venture to think of copying the main points . 
She walked several blocks a few yards behind this woman , then hurried ahead of her , turned and walked toward her to inspect the front of the dress . 
She repeated this several times between the St . 
The woman soon realized , as women always do , what the girl in the shirtwaist and short skirt was about . 
But she happened to be a good natured person , and smiled pleasantly at Susan , and got in return a smile she probably did not soon forget . 
The next morning Susan went shopping . 
She had it in mind to get the materials for a costume of a certain delicate shade of violet . 
A dress of that shade , and a big hat trimmed in tulle to match or to harmonize , with a bunch of silk violets fastened in the tulle in a certain way . 
She could see herself in that violet costume . 
But when she began to look at materials she hesitated . 
The violet would be beautiful but it was not a wise investment for a girl with few clothes , with but one best dress . 
She did not give it up definitely , however , until she came upon a sixteen yard remnant of soft gray China crepe . 
Gray was a really serviceable color for the best dress of a girl of small means . 
And this remnant , certainly enough for a dress , could be had for ten dollars , where violet China crepe of the shade she wanted would cost her a dollar a yard . 
She went to the millinery department and bought a large hat frame . 
It was of a good shape and she saw how it could be bent to suit her face . 
She paid fifty cents for this , and two dollars and seventy cents for four yards of gray tulle . 
She found that silk flowers were beyond her means so she took a bunch of presentable looking violets of the cheaper kind at two dollars and a half . 
She happened to pass a counter whereon were displayed bargains in big buckles and similar odds and ends of steel and enamel . 
She fairly pounced upon a handsome gray buckle with violet enamel , which cost but eighty nine cents . 
For a pair of gray suede ties she paid two dollars for a pair of gray silk stockings , ninety cents . 
She returned home content and studied Cavalleria until her purchases arrived . 
Spenser was out now , was working all day and in the evenings at Sperry's office high up in the Times Building . 
So , Susan had freedom for her dressmaking operations . 
When Spenser returned from Sperry's office to take her to dinner , she was arrayed . 
He stood rooted to the threshold . 
It would have justified a vanity less vigorous than Susan or any other normal human being possessed , to excite such a look as was in his eyes . 
He drew a long breath by way of breaking the spell over speech . 
You are beautiful ! he exclaimed . 
How you have grown ! he ejaculated . 
Then , How did you do it ? By all but breaking myself . 
It's worth whatever it cost . 
If I had a dress suit , we'd go to Sherry's or the Waldorf . 
I'm willing to go , without the dress suit . 
No. I've got everything ready for dinner at home . 
Then , why on earth did you dress ? To give me a treat ? Oh , I hate to go out in a dress I've never worn . 
And a woman has to wear a hat a good many times before she knows how . 
What a lot of fuss you women do make about clothes . 
You seem to like it , all the same . 
It has got many women a good provider for life . 
And not paying attention to dress or not knowing how has made most of the old maids . 
Are those things trifles ? Spenser laughed and shifted his ground without any sense of having been pressed to do so . 
Men are fools where women are concerned . 
Or women are wise where men are concerned . 
I guess they do know their business some of them , he confessed . 
Still , it's a silly business , you must admit . 
Nothing is silly that's successful , said Susan . 
Depends on what you mean by success , argued he . 
Success is getting what you want . 
Provided one wants what's worth while , said he . 
And what's worth while ? rejoined she . 
Why , whatever one happens to want . 
To avoid any possible mischance to the grande toilette he served the dinner and did the dangerous part of the clearing up . 
They went to the theater , Rod enjoying even more than she the very considerable admiration she got . 
When she was putting the dress away carefully that night , Rod inquired when he was to be treated again . 
Oh I don't know , replied she . 
She was too wise to tell him that the dress would not be worn again until Brent was to see it . 
The hat she took out of the closet from time to time and experimented with it , reshaping the brim , studying the different effects of different angles . 
He spent more time in admiring himself in it before the mirror , and looked at it , and at himself in it , with far more admiration and no criticism at all . 
Susan noted this and after the manner of women who are wise or indifferent or both she made no comment . 
At the studio floor of Brent's house the door of the elevator was opened for Susan by a small young man with a notably large head , bald and bulging . 
His big smooth face had the expression of extreme amiability that usually goes with weakness and timidity . 
I am Mr. Brent's secretary , Mr. Garvey , he explained . 
She knew the type well it had been the dominant type in her surroundings ever since she left Sutherland . 
She glanced round the room . 
At the huge open window Brent , his back to her , was talking earnestly to a big hatchet faced man with a black beard . 
Even as Susan glanced Brent closed the interview with an emphatic gesture of fist into palm he exclaimed , And that's final . 
The two men came toward her , both bowed , the hatchet faced man entered the elevator and was gone . 
Brent extended his hand with a smile . 
You evidently didn't come to work today , said he with a careless , fleeting glance at the grande toilette . 
But we are prepared against such tricks . 
Garvey , take her down to the rear dressing room and have the maid lay her out a simple costume . 
To Susan , Be as quick as you can . 
And he seated himself at his desk and was reading and signing letters . 
Susan , crestfallen , followed Garvey down the stairway . 
She had confidently expected that he would show some appreciation of her toilette . 
She knew she had never in her life looked so well . 
In the long glass in the dressing room , while Garvey was gone to send the maid , she inspected herself again . 
Yes never anything like so well . 
And Brent had noted her appearance only to condemn it . 
She was always telling herself that she wished him to regard her as a working woman , a pupil in stagecraft . 
But now that she had proof that he did so regard her , she was depressed , resentful . 
However , this did not last long . 
While she was changing to linen skirt and shirtwaist , she began to laugh at herself . 
She reappeared in the studio , laughter in her eyes and upon her lips . 
She described in amusing detail how she had planned and got together the costume how foolish his reception of it had made her feel . 
I've no doubt you guessed what was in my head , concluded she . 
I did notice that you were looking unusually well , and that you felt considerably set up over it , said he . 
But why not ? Vanity's an excellent thing . 
Like everything else it's got to be used , not misused . 
It can help us to learn instead of preventing . 
I had an excuse for dressing up , she reminded him . 
You said we were to dine together . 
I thought you wouldn't want there to be too much contrast between us . 
Next time I'll be more sensible . 
Dress as you like for the present , said he . 
You can always change here . 
Later on dress will be one of the main things , of course . 
Have you learned the part ? And they began . 
She saw at the far end of the room a platform about the height of a stage . 
He explained that Garvey , with the book of the play , would take the other parts in Lola's scenes , and sent them both to the stage . 
Don't be nervous , Garvey said to her in an undertone . 
He doesn't expect anything of you . 
This is simply to get started . 
But she could not suppress the trembling in her legs and arms , the hysterical contractions of her throat . 
However , she did contrive to go through the part Garvey prompting . 
Rotten ! exclaimed Brent , when she had finished . 
Couldn't be worse therefore , couldn't be better . 
She dropped to a chair and sobbed hysterically . 
That's right cry it out , said Brent . 
Leave us alone , Garvey . 
Brent walked up and down smoking until she lifted her head and glanced at him with a pathetic smile . 
Take a cigarette , he suggested . 
Now , we've got something to talk about . 
She found relief from her embarrassment in the cigarette . 
You can laugh at me now , she said . 
In fact , I didn't mind , though I thought I did . 
If I had , I'd not have let you see me cry . 
Don't think I'm discouraged , said Brent . 
You showed that you have nerve a very different matter from impudence . 
Impudence fails when it's most needed . 
Nerve makes one hang on , regardless . 
In such a panic as yours was , the average girl would have funked absolutely . 
Now , you and I will try Lola's first entrance . 
No , don't throw away your cigarette . 
Lola might well come in smoking a cigarette . 
What Burlingham had once thoroughly drilled into her now stood her in good stead , and Brent's sympathy and enthusiasm gave her the stimulating sense that he and she were working together . 
They tried it twenty different ways . 
They discussed what would have been in the minds of all three . 
They built up business for Lola , and for the two others to increase the significance of Lola's actions . 
As I've already told you , said he , anyone with a voice and a movable body can learn to act . 
There's no question about your becoming a good actress . 
But it'll be some time before I can tell whether you can be what I hope an actress who shows no sign that she's acting . 
Susan showed the alarm she felt . 
I'm afraid you'll find at the end that you've been wasting your time , said she . 
Put it straight out of your head , replied he . 
To live is to learn . 
Already you've given me a new play don't forget that . 
In a month I'll have it ready for us to use . 
Besides , in teaching you I teach myself . 
Hungry ? No that is , yes . 
I hadn't thought of it , but I'm starved . 
This sort of thing gives one an appetite like a field hand . 
He accompanied her to the door of the rear dressing room on the floor below . 
Go down to the reception room when you're ready , said he , as he left her to go on to his own suite to change his clothes . 
The maid came immediately , drew a bath for her , afterward helped her to dress . 
It was Susan's first experience with a maid , her first realization how much time and trouble one saves oneself if free from the routine , menial things . 
Ambition is simply a variously manifested and variously directed impulse toward improvement a discomfort so keen that it compels effort to change to a position less uncomfortable . 
There had never been a time when luxury had not attracted her . 
At the slightest opportunity she had always pushed out for luxuries for better food , better clothing , more agreeable surroundings . 
Even in her worst hours of discouragement she had not really relaxed in the struggle against rags and dirt . 
And when moral horror had been blunted by custom and drink , physical horror had remained acute . 
As life educated her , as her intelligence and her knowledge grew , her appreciation of luxury had grown apace and her desire for it . 
With most human beings , the imagination is a heavy bird of feeble wing it flies low , seeing only the things of the earth . 
When they describe heaven , it has houses of marble and streets of gold . 
Their pretense to sight of higher things is either sheer pretense or sight at second hand . 
Susan was of the few whose fancy can soar . 
She saw the earthy things she saw the things of the upper regions also . 
And she saw the lower region from the altitudes of the higher and in their perspective . 
I can't help it , said she . 
It's my nature to want these things . 
And to want them intelligently , said he . 
Everybody wants , but only the few want intelligently and they get . 
The three worst things in the world are sickness , poverty and obscurity . 
Your splendid health safeguards you against sickness . 
Your looks and your brains can carry you far away from the other two . 
Your one danger is of yielding to the temptation to become the wife or the mistress of some rich man . 
The prospect of several years of heart breaking hard work isn't wildly attractive at twenty two . 
You don't know me , said Susan but the boast was uttered under her breath . 
The auto rushed up to Delmonico's entrance , came to a halt abruptly yet gently . 
The attentiveness of the personnel , the staring and whispering of the people in the palm room showed how well known Brent was . 
These handsome women were dressed beautifully as well as expensively , in models got in not from Paris . 
One of them smiled sweetly at Brent , who responded , so Susan thought , rather formally . 
She felt dowdy in her home made dress . 
All her pride in it vanished she saw only its defects . 
And the gracefully careless manner of these women the manners of those who feel sure of themselves made her feel green and out of place . 
She heartily wished she had insisted on going where she would have been as well dressed and as much at home as anyone there . 
She lifted her eyes , to distract her mind from these depressing sensations . 
Brent was looking at her with that amused , mocking yet sympathetic expression which was most characteristic of him . 
No , I'm not ashamed of your homemade dress , said he . 
I don't care what is thought of me by people who don't give me any money . 
And , anyhow , you are easily the most unusual looking and the most tastefully dressed woman here . 
The rest of these women are doomed for life to commonplace obscurity . 
You We'll see your name in letters of fire on the Broadway temples of fame . 
I know you're half laughing at me , said Susan . 
But I feel a little better . 
Then I'm accomplishing my object . 
Let's not think about ourselves . 
Let's keep the thoughts on our work on the big splendid dreams that come to us and invite us to labor and to dare . 
Susan forgot where she was , forgot to be reserved with him . 
In her and Rod's happiest days she had never been free from the constraint of his and her own sense of his great superiority . 
With Brent , such trifles of the petty personal disappeared . 
And she talked more naturally than she had since a girl at her uncle's at Sutherland . 
She was amazed by the fountain that had suddenly gushed forth in her mind at the conjuring of Brent's sympathy . 
She did not recognize herself in this person so open to ideas , so eager to learn , so clear in the expression of her thoughts . 
Not since the Burlingham days had she spent so long a time with a man in absolute unconsciousness of sex . 
Brent received him so coldly that , after a smooth sentence or two , he took himself off stammering and in confusion . 
I suppose , said Brent when he was gone , that young ass hoped I would introduce him to you and invite him to sit . 
But you'll be tempted often enough in the next few years by rich men without my helping to put temptation in your way , I've never been troubled thus far , laughed Susan . 
But you will , now . 
You have developed to the point where everyone will soon be seeing what it took expert eyes to see heretofore . 
If I am tempted , said Susan , do you think I'll be able to resist ? I don't know , confessed Brent . 
You have a strong sense of honesty , and that'll keep you at work with me for a while . 
Then If you have it in you to be great , you'll go on . 
If you're merely the ordinary woman , a little more intelligent , you'll probably sell out . 
All the advice I have to offer is , don't sell cheap . 
As you're not hampered by respectability or by inexperience , you needn't . 
He reflected a moment , then added , And if you ever do decide that you don't care to go on with a career , tell me frankly . 
I may be able to help you in the other direction . 
Thank you , said Susan , her strange eyes fixed upon him . 
Why do you put so much gratitude in your tone and in your eyes ? asked he . 
I didn't put it there , she answered . 
And I was grateful because well , I'm human , you know , and it was good to feel that that Go on , said he , as she hesitated . 
What does it matter , if I do ? Well you've acted toward me as if I were a mere machine that you were experimenting with . 
The expression of his unseeing eyes puzzled her . 
But a few words from me wouldn't change you from a woman into a sexless ambition . 
An expression of wistful sadness crept into the violet gray eyes , in contrast to the bravely smiling lips . 
If I were you , said he gently , I'd not say those things about myself . 
Saying them encourages you to think them . 
And thinking them gives you a false point of view . 
You are dealing with the world as a man deals with it . 
You must demand and insist that the world deal with you on that basis . 
There came a wonderful look of courage and hope into the eyes of Lorella's daughter . 
And the world will , he went on . 
At least , the only part of it that's important to you or really important in any way . 
The matter of your virtue or lack of it is of no more importance than is my virtue or lack of it . 
Do you really believe that way ? asked Susan , earnestly . 
It doesn't in the least matter whether I do or not , laughed he . 
Don't bother about what I think what anyone thinks of you . 
The point here , as always , is that you believe it , yourself . 
There's no reason why a woman who is making a career should not be virtuous . 
She will probably not get far if she isn't more or less so . 
Dissipation doesn't help man or woman , especially the ruinous dissipation of license in passion . 
On the other hand , no woman can ever hope to make a career who persists in narrowing and cheapening herself with the notion that her virtue is her all . 
She'll not amount to much as a worker in the fields of action . 
It's very , very hard to get rid of one's sex . 
It's impossible , declared he . 
But don't let it worry you , either . 
Everyone can't be as strong as you are so absorbed in a career that they care for nothing else . 
With forearms on the edge of the table he turned his cigarette slowly round between his fingers , watching the smoke curl up from it . 
She observed that there was more than a light sprinkle of gray in his thick , carefully brushed hair . 
What woman was it now ? When he lifted his glance from the cigarette , it was to call the waiter and get the bill . 
I've a supper engagement , he said , and it's nearly eleven o'clock . 
Eleven o'clock ! she exclaimed . 
Times does fly doesn't it ? when a man and a woman , each an unexplored mystery to the other , are dining alone and talking about themselves . 
It was my fault , said Susan . 
His quizzical eyes looked into hers uncomfortably far . 
You make me feel guiltier than I am , she protested , under cover of laughing glance and tone of raillery . 
Guilty ? Of what ? You think I've been trying to to encourage' you , replied she frankly . 
And why shouldn't you , if you feel so inclined ? laughed he . 
That doesn't compel me to be encouraged . 
Honestly I haven't , said she , the contents of seriousness still in the gay wrapper of raillery . 
At least not any more than You know , a woman feels bound to encourage' a man who piques her by seeming difficult . 
Naturally , you'd not have objected to baptizing the new hat and dress with my heart's blood . 
She could not have helped laughing with him . 
Unfortunately for you or rather for the new toilette my poor heart was bled dry long , long ago . 
I'm a busy man , too busy and a little tired . 
I deserve it all , said she . 
I've brought it on myself . 
And I'm not a bit sorry I started the subject . 
I've found out you're quite human and that'll help me to work better . 
He insisted on sending her home in his auto , himself taking a taxi to the Players' where the supper was given . 
The moment she was alone for the short ride home , her gayety evaporated like a delicious but unstable perfume . 
Why ? Perhaps it was the sight of the girls on the stroll . 
Had she really been one of them ? and only a few days ago ? Impossible ! Not she not the real self . 
and perhaps she would be back there with them before long . 
No never , never , in any circumstances ! . 
She had said , Never ! the first time she escaped from the tenements , yet she had gone back . 
were any of those girls strolling along were , again , any of them Freddie Palmer's ? At the thought she shivered and quailed . 
She had not thought of him , except casually , in many months . 
What if he should see her , should still feel vengeful he who never forgot or forgave who would dare anything ! And she would be defenseless against him . 
She remembered what she had last read about him in the newspaper . 
He had risen in the world , was no longer in the criminal class apparently , had moved to the class of semi criminal wholly respectable contractor politician . 
No , he had long since forgotten her , vindictive Italian though he was . 
The auto set her down at home . 
Her tremors about Freddie departed but the depression remained . 
She felt physically as if she had been sitting all evening in a stuffy room with a dull company after a heavy , badly selected dinner . 
She had a sense of failure , of having made a bad impression . 
She fought this mood of depression fought alone , for Spenser did not notice and she would not annoy him . 
She slept little that night she felt that she could not hope for peace until she had seen Brent again . 
XVI TOWARD half past ten the next day , a few minutes after Rod left for the theater , she was in the bathroom cleaning the coffee machine . 
There came a knock at the door of the sitting room bedroom . 
Into such disorder had her mood of depression worried her nerves that she dropped the coffee machine into the washbowl and jumped as if she were seeing a ghost . 
Several dire calamities took vague shape in her mind , then the image of Freddie Palmer , smiling sweetly , cruelly . 
She wavered only a moment , went to the door , and after a brief hesitation that still further depressed her about herself she opened it . 
Susan laughed , for this maid was a born agitator , a person who is always trying to find a thrill or to put a thrill into the most trivial event . 
What is it now , Annie ? Susan asked . 
Mr. Spenser he's gone , hasn't he ? Yes a quarter of an hour ago . 
Annie drew a breath of deep relief . 
I was sure he had went , said she , producing from under her apron a note . 
I saw it was in a gentleman's writing , so I didn't come up with it till he was out of the way , though the boy brought it a little after nine . 
Oh , bother ! exclaimed Susan , taking the note . 
Well , Mrs. Spenser , I've had my lesson , replied Annie , apologetic but firm . 
And my madam says to me , Annie , you're fired . 
Never give a note to a lady when her gent is by or to a gent when his lady's by . 
That's the first rule of life in gay New York . 
And you can bet I never have since nor never will . 
Susan had glanced at the address on the note , had recognized the handwriting of Brent's secretary . 
Her heart had straightway sunk as if the foreboding of calamity had been realized . 
As she stood there uncertainly , Annie seized the opportunity to run on and on . 
Susan now said absently , Thank you . 
Very well , and closed the door . 
It was a minute or so before she tore open the envelope with an impatient gesture and read DEAR MRS . 
SPENSER Mr. Brent requests me to ask you not to come until further notice . 
It may be sometime before he will be free to resume . 
Yours truly , JOHN C. GARVEY . 
Had it been a skillfully worded insult Susan , in this mood of depression and distorted mental vision , could not have received it differently . 
She dropped to a chair at the table and stared at the five lines of neat handwriting until her eyes became circled and her face almost haggard . 
Precisely as Rod had described ! After a long , long time she crumpled the paper and let it fall into the waste basket . 
Then she walked up and down the room presently drifted into the bathroom and resumed cleaning the coffee machine . 
Every few moments she would pause in the task and in her dressing afterwards would be seized by the fear , the horror of again being thrust into that hideous underworld . 
What was between her and it , to save her from being flung back into its degradation ? Two men on neither of whom she could rely . 
Brent might drop her at any time perhaps had already dropped her . 
As for Rod vain , capricious , faithless , certain to become an unendurable tyrant if he got her in his power Rod was even less of a necessity than Brent . 
What a dangerous situation was hers ! How slender her chances of escape from another catastrophe . 
She leaned against wall or table and was shaken by violent fits of shuddering . 
She felt herself slipping slipping . 
It was all she could do to refrain from crying out . 
In those moments , no trace of the self possessed Susan the world always saw . 
Her fancy went mad and ran wild . 
Then with an exclamation of impatience or of anger she would shake herself together and go resolutely on only again to relapse . 
Because I so suddenly cut off the liquor and the opium , she said . 
It was the obvious and the complete explanation . 
But her heart was like lead , and her sky like ink . 
This note , the day after having tried her out as a possibility for the stage and as a woman . 
She stared down at the crumpled note in the wast basket . 
That note it was herself . 
He had crumpled her up and thrown her into the waste basket , where she no doubt belonged . 
It was nearly noon before she , dressed with unconscious care , stood in the street doorway looking about uncertainly as if she did not know which way to turn . 
She finally moved in the direction of the theater where Rod's play was rehearsing . 
She had gone to none of the rehearsals because Rod had requested it . 
I want you to see it as a total surprise the first night , explained he . 
That'll give you more pleasure , and also it will make your criticism more valuable to us . 
And she had acquiesced , not displeased to have all her time for her own affairs . 
But in the end , driven by one of those spasms of terror lest the underworld should be about to engulf her again , she stood at the stage door . 
As she was about to negotiate the surly looking man on guard within , Sperry came rushing down the long dark passageway . 
He was brushing past her when he saw who it was . 
Too late ! he cried . 
I didn't come to the rehearsal , explained Susan . 
I thought perhaps Rod would be going to lunch . 
You'll find him on the stage . 
I'll join you if you'll wait a minute or so . 
And Sperry hurried on into the street . 
Susan advanced along the passageway cautiously as it was but one remove from pitch dark . 
Perhaps fifty feet , and she came to a cross passage . 
The woman who seemed young was not looking down the passage , but into the room . 
A man's arm Rod's arm reached across the opening in the doorway . 
All this a matter of less than five seconds . 
She ran squarely into Sperry . 
I I beg your pardon , stammered he . 
I was in such a rush I ought to have been thinking where I was going . 
Did I hurt you ? This last most anxiously . 
I'm so sorry It's nothing nothing , laughed Susan . 
You are the one that's hurt . 
And in fact she had knocked Sperry breathless . 
You don't look anything like so strong , gasped he . 
Oh , my appearance is deceptive in a lot of ways . 
For instance , he could have got from her face just then no hint of the agony of fear torturing her fear of the drop into the underworld . 
Find Rod ? asked he . 
He wasn't on the stage . 
So I came out again . 
Wait here , said Sperry . 
Oh , no please don't . 
I I guess he's gone , stammered Sperry . 
Lord , but that was a knock you gave me ! Better come to lunch with me . 
Susan hesitated , a wistful , forlorn look in her eyes . 
Do you really want me ? asked she . 
Come right along , said Sperry in a tone that left no doubt of his sincerity . 
We'll go to the Knickerbocker and have something good to eat . 
Oh , no a quieter place , urged Susan . 
There's one of the great big differences between you and the make believe ladies one bumps into in this part of town . 
You don't like to be troublesome or expensive . 
But we'll go to the Knickerbocker . 
I feel 'way down today , and I intended to treat myself . 
You don't look any too gay hearted yourself . 
I'll admit I don't like the way the cards are running , said Susan . 
But they'll run better sooner or later . 
You needn't worry about the play . 
How I envy women ! Why ? Oh you have Rod between you and the fight . 
While I I've got to look out for myself . 
So have I , said Susan . 
So has everyone , for that matter . 
Believe me , Mrs. Spenser , cried Sperry , earnestly , you can count on Rod . 
No matter what Please ! protested Susan . 
I learned long ago not to lean . 
Well , leaning isn't exactly a safe position , Sperry admitted . 
There never was a perfectly reliable crutch . 
Susan smilingly shook her head . 
I've got to think it out for myself . 
I believed I had arranged for a career for myself . 
It seems to have gone to pieces That's all . 
Something else will turn up after lunch . 
Not a doubt in the world , replied he confidently . 
Susan's laugh of raillery made him blush guiltily . 
Yes , said she , there's Rod . 
She laughed again , merrily . 
There's Rod but where is there ? You're the only woman in the world he has any real liking for , said Sperry , earnest and sincere . 
Don't you ever doubt that , Mrs. Spenser . 
It was apparent that Fitzalan was excited about something his lips , his arms , his head were in incessant motion . 
He came , full of apologies . 
Fitz held on to me while he roasted Brent . 
You've heard of Brent , of course ? Yes , said Susan . 
Fitz has been seeing him off . 
And he says it's Susan glanced quickly at him . 
Susan had paused in removing her left glove . 
Rod's description of Brent's way of sidestepping Rod's description to the last detail . 
Her hands fluttered uncertainly fluttering fingers like a flock of birds flushed and confused by the bang of the gun . 
And Fitz says For Europe , said Susan . 
She was drawing her fingers slowly one by one from the fingers of her glove . 
He sailed , it seems , on impulse barely time to climb aboard . 
Fitz always lays everything to a woman . 
He says Brent has been mixed up for a year or so with Oh , it doesn't matter . 
I oughtn't to repeat those things . 
I don't believe 'em on principle . 
Every man or woman who amounts to anything has scandal talked about him or her all the time . 
Good Lord ! If Robert Brent bothered with half the affairs that are credited to him , he'd have no time or strength not to speak of brains to do plays . 
I guess even the busiest man manages to fit a woman in somehow , observed Susan . 
I guess yes , said he . 
But as to Brent , most of the scandal about him is due to a fad of his hunting for an undeveloped female genius who I've heard of that , interrupted Susan . 
The service is dreadfully slow here . 
How long is it since you ordered ? Twenty minutes and here comes our waiter . 
And then , being one of those who must finish whatever they have begun , he went on . 
Well , it's true Brent does pick up and drop a good many ladies of one kind and another . 
And naturally , every one of them is good looking and clever or he'd not start in . 
But you may laugh at me if you like I think he's strictly business with all of them . 
He'd have got into trouble if he hadn't been . 
And Fitz admits this one woman she's a society woman is the only one there's any real basis for talk about in connection with Brent . 
Susan had several times lifted a spoonful of soup to her lips and had every time lowered it untasted . 
And Brent's mighty decent to those he tries and has to give up . 
I know of one woman he carried on his pay roll for nearly two years Let's drop Mr. Brent , cried Susan . 
Tell me about about the play . 
Rod must be giving you an overdose of that . 
I've not seen much of him lately . 
How was the rehearsal ? Fair fair . 
And Sperry forgot Brent and talked on and on about the play , not checking himself until the coffee was served . 
He had not observed that Susan was eating nothing . 
She came to the surface again when Sperry , complaining of the way the leading lady was doing her part , said No wonder Brent drops one after another . 
Women aren't worth much as workers . 
Their real mind's always occupied with the search for a man to support 'em . 
Not always , cried Susan , quivering with sudden pain . 
Oh , no , Mr. Sperry not always . 
Yes there are exceptions , said Sperry , not noting how he had wounded her . 
But well , I never happened to run across one . 
Can you blame them ? mocked Susan . 
She was ashamed that she had been stung into crying out . 
To be honest no , said Sperry . 
I suspect I'd throw up the sponge and sell out if I had anything a lady with cash wanted to buy . 
But I know most men would . 
No , I don't blame the ladies . 
Why not have a nice easy time ? Only one short life and then the worms . 
It must have been instinct or accident , for it certainly was not any prompting from her calm expression , that moved him to say Now , tell me your troubles . 
You surely must have some ? Susan forced a successful smile of raillery . 
None to speak of , evaded she . 
When she reached home there was a telegram from Brent Compelled to sail suddenly . 
Shall be back in a few weeks . 
Don't mind this annoying interruption . 
R. B. A very few minutes after she read these words , she was at work on the play . 
But a very few minutes thereafter she was sitting with the play in her lap , eyes gazing into the black and menacing future . 
The misgivings of the night before had been fed and fattened into despairing certainties by the events of the day . 
The sun was shining , never more brightly but it was not the light of her City of the Sun . 
She stayed in all afternoon and all evening . 
Any spectator would have been puzzled by this shifting of personality . 
Susan herself was completely confused . 
She sought for her real self among this multitude so contradictory . 
Each successive one seemed the reality yet none persisted . 
When we look in at our own souls , it is like looking into a many sided room lined with mirrors . 
We see reflections re reflections views at all angles but we cannot distinguish the soul itself among all these counterfeits , all real yet all false because partial . 
What shall I do ? What can I do ? What will I do ? that was her last cry as the day ended . 
And it was her first cry as her weary brain awakened for the new day . 
At the end of the week came the regular check with a note from Garvey less machine like , more human . 
She flushed hot with rage and shame as she reflected on her position . 
Garvey pitying her ! She straightway sat down and wrote DEAR MR . 
GARVEY Do not send me any more checks until Mr. Brent comes back and I have seen him . 
I am in doubt whether I shall be able to go on with the work he and I had arranged . 
She signed this Susan Lenox and dispatched it . 
She had debated sending back the check , but had decided that if she did she might give the impression of pique or anger . 
She would save her pride she would spare his feelings . 
She was taking counsel of Burlingham these days was recalling the lesson he had taught her , was getting his aid in deciding her course . 
Burlingham protested vehemently against this sending back of the check but she let her pride , her aversion to being an object of pity , overrule him . 
A few days more , and she was so desperate , so harassed that she altogether lost confidence in her own judgment . 
While outwardly she seemed to be the same as always with Rod , she had a feeling of utter alienation . 
Still , there was no one else to whom she could turn . 
Should she put the facts before him and ask his opinion ? Her intelligence said no her heart said perhaps . 
While she was hesitating , he decided for her . 
One morning at breakfast he stopped talking about himself long enough to ask carelessly About you and Brent he's gone away . 
What are you doing ? Nothing , said she . 
Going to take that business up again , when he comes back ? I don't know . 
I wouldn't count on it , if I were you . 
You're so sensitive that I've hesitated to say anything . 
But I think that chap was looking for trouble , and when he found you were already engaged , why , he made up his mind to drop it . 
Do you think so ? said Susan indifferently . 
More coffee ? Yes a little . 
If my play's as good as your coffee That's enough , thanks . 
Do you still draw your your His tone as he cast about for a fit word made her flush scarlet . 
No I stopped it until we begin work again . 
He did not conceal his thorough satisfaction . 
That's right ! he cried . 
The only cloud on our happiness is gone . 
You know , a man doesn't like that sort of thing . 
I know , said Susan drily . 
He had carefully coached Miss Francklyn to play the part of unsuspected understudy Susan saw that before they had been seated in Jack's ten minutes . 
And she also saw that he was himself resolved to conduct himself like a gentleman . 
She , however , did contrive to see nothing at least , the other three were convinced that she had not seen . 
When they were back in their rooms , Rod whether through pretense or through sidetracked amorousness or from simple intoxication became more demonstrative than he had been for a long time . 
No , there's nobody like you , he declared . 
Even if I wandered I'd always come back to you . 
Really ? said Susan with careless irony . 
No , I can unhook my blouse . 
I do believe you're growing cold . 
I don't feel like being messed with tonight . 
Oh , very well , said he sulkily . 
You'll not be difficult any more . 
A moment's silence , then Susan , with a queer little laugh , Men don't in the least mind do they ? Mind what ? Being loved for money . 
There was a world of sarcasm in her accent on that word loved . 
You don't understand yourself , declared he with large confidence . 
They're like babies and babies , you know , love the person that feeds them . 
And dogs and cats and birds and all the lower orders . 
She took a book and sat in a wrapper under the light . 
Come to bed please , dear , pleaded he . 
No , I'll read a while . 
And she held the book before her until he was asleep . 
She must please him , must accept what treatment he saw fit to give , must rein in her ambitions to suit the uncertain gait and staying power of his ability to achieve . 
She could not leave him he could leave her when he might feel so inclined . 
Her master capricious , tyrannical , a drunkard . 
Her sole reliance and the first condition of his protection was that she should not try to do for herself . 
A dependent , condemned to become even more dependent . 
XVII SHE now spent a large part of every day in wandering , like a derelict , drifting aimlessly this way or that , up into the Park or along Fifth Avenue . 
She gazed intently into shop windows , apparently inspecting carefully all the articles on display but she passed on , unconscious of having seen anything . 
If she sat at home with a book she rarely turned a page , though her gaze was fastened upon the print as if she were absorbingly interested . 
What was she feeling ? The coarse contacts of street life and tenement life the choice between monstrous defilements from human beings and monstrous defilements from filth and vermin . 
She had entire confidence in Brent's judgment . 
And never before had the sweet melancholy of her eyes been so moving . 
Every time theretofore , she had been cowed by the crushing mandate of destiny had made no struggle against it beyond the futile threshings about of aimless youth . 
This time she lost neither strength nor courage . 
She was no longer a child she was no longer mere human flotsam and jetsam . 
She wandered she wandered aimlessly but not for an instant did she cease to keep watch for the right direction the direction that would be the best available in the circumstances . 
She did not know or greatly care which way it led , so long as it did not lead back whence she had come . 
In all her excursions she had not consciously but by instinct kept away from her old beat . 
Indeed , except in the company of Spenser or Sperry she had never ventured into the neighborhood of Long Acre . 
As she stood at one of these stalls near Sixth Avenue , she became conscious that two men were pressing against her , one on either side . 
She moved back and started on her way . 
One of the men was standing before her . 
She lifted her eyes , was looking into the cruel smiling eyes of a man with a big black mustache and the jaws of a prizefighter . 
I thought it was you , Queenie , said he . 
She recognized him as a fly cop who had been one of Freddie Palmer's handy men . 
She fell back a step and the other man she knew him instantly as also a policeman lined up beside him of the black mustache . 
We've been on the lookout for you a long time , Queenie , said the other . 
There's a friend of yours that wants to see you mighty bad . 
She turned away without speaking and started toward Sixth Avenue . 
Now , what d'ye think of that ? said Black Mustache to his side kick . 
I thought she was too much of a lady to cut an old friend . 
Guess we'd better run her in , Pete . 
That's right , assented Pete . 
Then we can keep her safe till F. P. can get the hooks on her . 
Black Mustache laughed , laid his hand on her arm . 
You'll come along quietly , said he . 
You don't want to make a scene . 
You always was a perfect lady . 
She drew her arm away . 
I am a married woman living with my husband . 
Think of that , Pete ! And she soliciting us . 
That'll be good news for your loving husband . 
Everybody'll know you've dropped back to your old ways . 
I am going to my husband , said she quietly . 
You had better not annoy me . 
Pete looked uneasy , but Black Mustache's sinister face became more resolute . 
She knew the police , knew that Palmer's lieutenant would act as he said and she also knew what her record would do toward carrying through the plot . 
In this way they avoided collecting a crowd at their heels . 
As she advanced to the desk , the sergeant yawning over the blotter glanced up . 
Bless my soul ! cried he , all interest at once . 
If it ain't F. P. 's Queenie ! And up to her old tricks , sergeant , said Black Mustache . 
She solicited me and Pete . 
Susan was looking the sergeant straight in the eyes . 
I am a married woman , said she . 
I live with my husband . 
I was looking at some books in Forty second Street when these two came up and arrested me . 
The sergeant quailed , glanced at Pete who was guiltily hanging his head glanced at Black Mustache . 
There he got the support he was seeking . 
What's your husband's name ? demanded Black Mustache roughly . 
What's your address ? And Rod's play coming on the next night but one ! She shrank , collected herself . 
I am not going to drag him into this , if I can help it , said she . 
I give you a chance to keep yourselves out of trouble . 
She was gazing calmly at the sergeant again . 
You know these men are not telling the truth . 
You know they've brought me here because of Freddie Palmer . 
My husband knows all about my past . 
He will stand by me . 
But I wish to spare him . 
The sergeant's uncertain manner alarmed Black Mustache . 
She's putting up a good , bluff scoffed he . 
The truth is she ain't got no husband . 
She'd not have solicited us if she was living decent . 
You hear what the officer says , said the sergeant , taking the tone of great kindness . 
You'll have to give your name and address and I'll leave it to the judge to decide between you and the officers . 
He took up his pen . 
Come what's your name ? jeered Black Mustache . 
Put her down Queenie Brown , cried he , triumphantly . 
Then he said Age ? No answer from Susan . 
Black Mustache answered for her About twenty two now . 
She don't look it , said the sergeant , almost at ease once more . 
But brunettes stands the racket better'n blondes . 
Native parents ? No answer . 
You don't look Irish or Dutch or Dago though you might have a dash of the Spinnitch or the Frog eaters . 
Ever arrested before ? No answer from the girl , standing rigid at the bar . 
Black Mustache said At least oncet , to my knowledge . 
I run her in myself . 
Oh , she's got a record ? exclaimed the sergeant , now wholly at ease . 
Why the hell didn't you say so ? I thought you remembered . 
I do recollect now , said the sergeant . 
Take my advice , Queenie , and drop that bluff about the officers lying . 
Swallow your medicine plead guilty and you'll get off with a fine . 
If you lie about the police , the judge'll soak it to you . 
It happens to be a good judge a friend of Freddie's . 
Then to the policemen Take her along to court , boys , and get back here as soon as you can . 
I want her locked up , objected Black Mustache . 
I want F. P. to see her . 
I've got to hunt for him . 
Can't do it , said the sergeant . 
If she makes a yell about police oppression , our holding on to her would look bad . 
No , put her through . 
Susan now straightened herself and spoke . 
I shan't make any complaint , said she . 
Not on your life ! cried the sergeant . 
She'd have a good case against us . 
F. P. 'll raise the devil if began Black Mustache . 
Then hunt him up right away . 
To court she's got to go . 
I don't want to get broke . 
The two men fell afoul each other with curse and abuse . 
They were in no way embarrassed by the presence of Susan . 
Her record made her of no account either as a woman or as a witness . 
Soon each was so well pleased with the verbal wounds he had dealt the other that their anger evaporated . 
The upshot of the hideous controversy was that Black Mustache said You take her to court , Pete . 
I'll hunt up F. P. Keep her till the last . 
She and Pete were alone . 
He was walking nervously up and down pulling his little fair mustache . 
It must have been that she had retained throughout the impassive features which , however stormy it was within , gave her an air of strength and calm . 
Otherwise Pete would not presently have halted before her to say in a low , agitated voice If you can make trouble for us , don't do it . 
I've got a wife , and three babies one come only last week and my old mother paralyzed . 
You know how it is with us fellows that we've got to do what them higher up says or be broke . 
And F. P. he's right up next the big fellows nowadays . 
You can see for yourself how much chance against him there'd be for a common low down cop . 
She was still silent , not through anger as he imagined but because she had no sense of the reality of what was happening . 
The officer , who had lost his nerve , looked at her a moment , in his animal eyes a humble pleading look then he gave a groan and turned away . 
Oh , hell ! he muttered . 
Again her memory ceased to record until the door swung open she shivered , thinking it was the summons to court . 
Instead , there stood Freddie Palmer . 
The instant she looked into his face she became as calm and strong as her impassive expression had been falsely making her seem . 
Behind him was Black Mustache , his face ghastly , sullen , cowed . 
Palmer made a jerky motion of head and arm . 
Pete went and the door closed and she was alone with him . 
I've seen the Judge and you're free , said Freddie . 
She stood and began to adjust her hat and veil . 
I'll have those filthy curs kicked off the force . 
She was looking tranquilly at him . 
You don't believe me ? You think I ordered it done ? She shrugged her shoulders . 
No matter , she said . 
It's more than I expected . 
You don't believe me and I don't blame you . 
You think I'm making some sort of grandstand play . 
You haven't changed at least not much . 
I'll admit , when you left I was wild and did tell 'em to take you in as soon as they found you . 
But that was a long time ago . 
And I never meant them to disturb a woman who was living respectably with her husband . 
There may have been yes , there was a time when I'd have done that and worse . 
You say I haven't changed . 
In some ways I have . 
I'm climbing up , as I always told you I would and as a man gets up he sees things differently . 
At least , he acts differently . 
I don't do that kind of dirty work , any more . 
I'm glad to hear it , murmured Susan for lack of anything else to say . 
He said You 've changed a lot . 
And all to the good . 
The only sign is rouge on your lips and that isn't really a sign nowadays . 
But then you never did look the professional and you weren't . 
His eyes were appealingly tender as he gazed at her sweet , pensive face , with its violet gray eyes full of mystery and sorrow and longing . 
And the clear pallor of her skin , and the slender yet voluptuous lines of her form suggested a pale , beautiful rose , most delicate of flowers yet about the hardiest . 
So you've married and settled down ? No , replied Susan . 
Neither the one nor the other . 
Why , you told I'm supposed to be a married woman . 
Why didn't you give your name and address at the police station ? said he . 
They'd have let you go at once . 
Yes , I know , replied she . 
But the newspapers would probably have published it . 
As it is I've been worrying for fear I'd be recognized , and the man would get a write up . 
That was square , said he . 
Yes , it'd have been a dirty trick to drag him in . 
It was the matter of course to both of them that she should have protected her friend . 
She had simply obeyed about the most stringent and least often violated article in the moral code of the world of outcasts . 
If Freddie's worst enemy in that world had murdered him , Freddie would have used his last breath in shielding him from the common foe , the law . 
If you're not married to him , you're free , said Freddie with a sudden new kind of interest in her . 
I told you I should always be free . 
They remained facing each other a moment . 
When she moved to go , he said I see you've still got your taste in dress only more so . 
She smiled faintly , glanced at his clothing . 
He was dressed with real fashion . 
He looked Fifth Avenue at its best , and his expression bore out the appearance of the well bred man of fortune . 
I can return the compliment , said she . 
And you too have improved . 
At a glance all the old fear of him had gone beyond the possibility of return . 
He was saying I don't think of anything else but improving in every way . 
And the higher I get the higher I want to go . 
That was a dreadful thing I did to you . 
It was part of the system . 
A man's got to do at every stage whatever's necessary . 
But I don't expect you to appreciate that . 
I know you'll never forgive me . 
I'm used to men doing dreadful things . 
Oh , I was brought up badly badly for the game , I mean . 
But I'm doing better , and I shall do still better . 
I can't abolish the system . 
I can't stand out against it and live . 
So , I'm yielding in my own foolish fashion . 
You don't lay up against me the the you know what I mean ? The question surprised her , so far as it aroused any emotion . 
She answered indifferently I don't lay anything up against anybody . 
What's the use ? I guess we all do the best we can the best the system'll let us . 
And she was speaking the exact truth . 
They lose the sense of the personal . 
Where they yield to anger and revenge upon the instrument the blow fate has used it to inflict , the resentment is momentary . 
The mood of personal vengeance is characteristic of stupid people leading uneventful lives of comfortable classes , of remote rural districts . 
She again moved to go , this time putting out her hand with a smile . 
He said , with an awkwardness most significant in one so supple of mind and manner I want to talk to you . 
I've got something to propose something that'll interest you . 
Will you give me say , about an hour ? She debated , then smiled . 
You will have me arrested if I refuse ? He flushed scarlet . 
You're giving me what's coming to me , said he . 
The reason one reason I've got on so well is that I've never been a liar . 
No you never were that . 
It's always a sign of bravery , and bravery's the one thing I respect . 
Yes , what I said I'd do always I did . 
That's the only way to get on in politics and the crookeder the politics the more careful a man has to be about acting on the level . 
I can borrow a hundred thousand dollars without signing a paper and that's more than the crooks in Wall Street can do the biggest and best of them . 
So , when I told you how things were with me about you , I was on the level . 
I know it , said Susan . 
Where shall we go ? I can't ask you to come home with me . 
We might go to tea somewhere Susan laughed outright . 
But how carefully hidden and what strong provocation would be needed to bring that savage to the surface again . 
The Italian in him , that was carrying him so far so cleverly , enabled him instantly to understand her amusement . 
Said he You've no idea the kind of people I'm traveling with not political swells , but the real thing . 
What do you say to the Brevoort ? She hesitated . 
You needn't be worried about being seen with me , no matter how high you're flying , he hastened to say . 
I always did keep myself in good condition for the rise . 
Nothing's known about me or ever will be . 
The girl was smiling at him again . 
I wasn't thinking of those things , said she . 
I've never been to the Brevoort . 
I'm glad it's respectable , said she . 
They've gotten a metropolitan morality . 
Still I'm not respectable and never shall be . 
Don't be too hasty about that , protested he , gravely . 
But wait till you hear my proposition . 
As they walked through West Ninth Street she noted that there was more of a physical change in him than she had seen at first glance . 
He was less athletic , heavier of form and his face was fuller . 
You don't keep in as good training as you used , said she . 
It's those infernal automobiles , cried he . 
They're death to figure to health , for that matter . 
But I've got the habit , and I don't suppose I'll ever break myself of it . 
I've taken on twenty pounds in the past year , and I've got myself so upset that the doctor has ordered me abroad to take a cure . 
I can't let that alone , either , though I know it's plain poison . 
And when they were in the restaurant of the Brevoort he insisted on ordering champagne and left her for a moment to telephone for his automobile . 
It amused her to see a man so masterful thus pettily enslaved . 
She laughed at him , and he again denounced himself as a weak fool . 
Money and luxury are too much for me . 
I'm not as strong willed as I used to be , he said . 
And it makes me uneasy . 
That's another reason for my proposition . 
Well let's hear it , said she . 
I happen to be in a position where I'm fond of hearing propositions even if I have no intention of accepting . 
She was watching him narrowly . 
But first , he went on , I must tell you a little about myself . 
I think I told you once about my mother and father ? I remember , said Susan . 
Well , honestly , do you wonder that I was what I used to be ? No , she answered . 
I wonder that you are what you seem to be . 
What I come pretty near being , cried he . 
The part that's more or less put on today is going to be the real thing tomorrow . 
That's the way it is with life you put on a thing , and gradually learn to wear it . 
And I want you to help me . 
Yes , he said thoughtfully , I want you to help me . 
I've been waiting for you . 
I knew you'd turn up again . 
I've been true to you in a way a man's way . 
I've hunted the town for women who suggested you a poor sort of makeshift but I had to do something . 
What were you going to tell me ? Her tone was business like . 
He did not resent it , but straightway acquiesced . 
I've been , as you know , a bad one bad all my life . 
You know about my mother and father . 
One of my sisters died in a disreputable resort . 
The other well , the last I heard of her , she was doing time in an English pen . 
I've got a brother he's a degenerate . 
Well ! not to linger over rotten smells , I was the only one of the family that had brains . 
I soon saw that everybody who gets on in the world is bad which simply means doing disturbing things of one kind and another . 
And I saw that the ordinary crooks let their badness run their brains , while the get on kind of people let their brains run their badness . 
You can be rotten and sink lower and lower every day . 
Or you can gratify your natural taste for rottenness and at the same time get up in the world . 
I made up my mind to do the rotten things that get a man money and power . 
So I set out to improve my brains . 
I went to night school and read and studied . 
And I didn't stay a private in the gang of toughs . 
I had the brains to be leader , but the leader's got to be a fighter too . 
I took up boxing and made good in the ring . 
I got to be leader . 
And they did it because I had the brains to think out jobs that paid well and that could be pulled off without getting pinched at least , not always getting pinched . 
Palmer sipped his champagne , looked at her to see if she was appreciative . 
I thought you'd understand , said he . 
I needn't go into details . 
You remember about the women ? Yes , I remember , said Susan . 
That was one step in the ladder up ? It got me the money to make my first play for respectability . 
I couldn't have got it any other way . 
I had extravagant tastes and the leader has to be always giving up to help this fellow and that out of the hole . 
And I never did have luck with the cards and the horses . 
Why did you want to be respectable ? she asked . 
Because that's the best graft , explained he . 
It means the most money , and the most influence . 
The coyotes that raid the sheep fold don't get the big share though they may get a good deal . 
No , it's the shepherds and the owners that pull off the most . 
I've been leader of coyotes . 
I'm graduating into shepherd and proprietor . 
I see , said Susan . 
You make it beautifully clear . 
Then , I'll go on . 
I'm deep in the contracting business now . 
I've got a pot of money put away . 
I've cut out the cards except a little gentlemen's game now and then , to help me on with the right kind of people . 
Horses , the same way . 
I've got my political pull copper riveted . 
It's as good with the Republicans as with Democrats , and as good with the reform crowd as with either . 
My next move is to cut loose from the gang . 
I've put a lot of lieutenants between me and them , instead of dealing with them direct . 
I'm putting in several more fellows I'm not ashamed to be seen with in Delmonico's . 
What's become of Jim ? asked Susan . 
Dead a kike shot him all to pieces in a joint in Seventh Avenue about a month ago . 
As I was saying , how do these big multi millionaires do the trick ? They don't tell somebody to go steal what they happen to want . 
I studied it all out , and I've framed up my game the same way . 
Nowadays , every dollar that comes to me has been thoroughly cleaned long before it drops into my pocket . 
But you're wondering where you come in . 
Women are only interested in what's coming to them , said Susan . 
Sensible men are the same way . 
The men who aren't they work for wages and salaries . 
If you're going to live off of other people , as women and the rich do , you've got to stand steady , day and night , for Number One . 
And now , here's where you come in . 
You've no objection to being respectable ? I've no objection to not being disreputable . 
That's the right way to put it , he promptly agreed . 
Respectable , you know , doesn't mean anything but appearances . 
People who are really respectable , who let it strike in , instead of keeping it on the outside where it belongs they soon get poor and drop down and out . 
Palmer's revelation of himself and of a philosophy which life as it had revealed itself to her was incessantly urging her to adopt so grappled her attention that she altogether forgot herself . 
A man on his way to the scaffold who suddenly sees and feels a cataclysm rocking the world about him forgets his own plight . 
Ambition must use the inert mass must persuade it , if possible , must compel it by trick or force if persuasion fails . 
But Palmer and Susan Lenox were , naturally , not seeing the thing in the broad but only as it applied to themselves . 
I've read a whole lot of history and biography , Freddie went on , and I've thought about what I read and about what's going on around me . 
I tell you the world's full of cant . 
The people who get there don't act on what is always preached . 
The preaching isn't all lies at least , I think not . 
But it doesn't fit the facts a man or a woman has got to meet . 
I realized that long ago , said Susan . 
There's a saying that you can't touch pitch without being defiled . 
It's a hell of a world , but I didn't get it up . 
And we've got to live in it , said she , and get out of it the things we want and need . 
That's the talk ! cried Palmer . 
Now to make a long story short you and I can get what we want . 
We can help each other . 
You were better born than I am you've had a better training in manners and dress and all the classy sort of things . 
I've got the money and brains enough to learn with and I can help you in various ways . 
So I propose that we go up together . 
We've got pasts , said Susan . 
Who hasn't that amounts to anything ? Mighty few . 
No one that's made his own pile , I'll bet you . 
I'm in a position to do favors for people the people we'd need . 
And I'll get in a position to do more and more . 
We'd not be adventurers , you see . 
Adventurers are people who haven't any money and are looking round to try to steal it . 
So , we'd be building solid , right on the rock . 
It'd never occur to you to shuffle out of trying to keep your word . 
It hasn't so far , said Susan . 
Well that's the only sort of thing worth talking about as morality . 
Believe me , for I've been through the whole game from chimney pots to cellar floor . 
There's another thing , too , said the girl . 
What's that ? Not to injure anyone else . 
Palmer shook his head positively . 
It's believing that and acting on it that has kept you down in spite of your brains and looks . 
That I shall never do , said the girl . 
It may be weakness I guess it is weakness . 
But I draw the line there . 
But I'm not proposing that you injure anyone or proposing to do it myself . 
As I said , I've got up where I can afford to be good and kind and all that . 
And I'm willing to jump you up over the stretch of the climb that can't be crossed without being well , anything but good and kind . 
You'll never get over that stretch by yourself . 
It'll always turn you back . 
Just what do you propose ? she asked . 
It gave her pleasure to see the keen delight her question , with its implication of hope , aroused in him . 
Said he That we go to Europe together and stay over there several years as long as you like as long as it's necessary . 
Stay till our pasts have disappeared work ourselves in with the right sort of people . 
You say you're not married ? Not to the man I'm with . 
To somebody else ? I don't know . 
Well that'll be looked into and straightened out . 
And then we'll quietly marry . 
You're too fast , said she . 
I've been looking for a road one that doesn't lead toward where we've come from . 
And this is the first road that has offered . 
But I haven't agreed to go in with you yet haven't even begun to think it over . 
And if I did agree which I probably won't why , still I'd not be willing to marry . 
I'd want to be very , very sure I was satisfied . 
Palmer nodded , with a return of the look of admiration . 
You don't promise until you intend to stick , and once you've promised all hell couldn't change you . 
Another thing very unfortunate , too . 
It looks to me as if I'd be dependent on you for money . 
Oh , we'd never quarrel about that , said he with an attempt at careless confidence . 
No , replied she quietly . 
For the best of reasons . 
I'd not consider going into any arrangement where I'd be dependent on a man for money . 
If I lived with you several years in the sort of style you've suggested no , not several years but a few months you'd have me absolutely at your mercy . 
You'd thought of that , hadn't you ? His smile was confession . 
I'd develop tastes for luxuries and they'd become necessities . 
No that would be foolish very foolish . 
He was watching her so keenly that his expression was covert suspicion . 
What do you suggest ? he asked . 
Not what you suspect , replied she , amused . 
I'm not making a play for a gift of a fortune . 
I haven't anything to suggest . 
There was a long silence , he turning his glass slowly and from time to time taking a little of the champagne thoughtfully . 
She observed him with a quizzical expression . 
It was apparent to her that he was debating whether he would be making a fool of himself if he offered her an independence outright . 
Finally she said Don't worry , Freddie . 
I'd not take it , even if you screwed yourself up to the point of offering it . 
He glanced up quickly and guiltily . 
Why not ? he said . 
You'd be practically my wife . 
You've had experience , so you can't blame me for hesitating . 
Money puts the devil in anybody who gets it man or woman . 
But I'll trust you he laughed since I've got to . 
No. The most I'd take would be a salary . 
I'd be a sort of companion . 
Anything you like , cried he . 
This last suspicion born of a life of intimate dealings with his fellow beings took flight . 
It'd have to be a big salary because you'd have to dress and act the part . 
What do you say ? Is it a go ? Oh , I can't decide now . 
I can tell you in a week . 
He hesitated , said , All right a week . 
I've warned you the chances are against my accepting . 
That's because you haven't looked the ground over , replied he , rising . 
Then , after a nervous moment , Is the is the He stopped short . 
Go on , said she . 
We must be frank with each other . 
I hadn't given it a thought , replied she . 
Women are not especially sensitive about that sort of thing . 
And I rather thought you were . 
No more than other women , said she . 
Look how they marry for a home or money or social position and such men ! And look how they live with men year after year , hating them . 
Men never could do that . 
Don't you believe it , replied he . 
They can , and they do . 
The kept man in and out of marriage is quite a feature of life in our chaste little village . 
Well why not ? said she . 
Everybody's simply got to have money nowadays . 
And working for it is slow and mighty uncertain . 
She was seeing the sad wretched past from filthy tenement to foul workshop . 
She said Where shall I send you word ? I've an apartment at Sherry's now . 
Then a week from today . 
She put out her hand . 
He took it , and she marveled as she felt a tremor in that steady hand of his . 
But his voice was resolutely careless as he said , So long . 
Don't forget how much I want or need you . 
And if you do forget that , think of the advantages seeing the world with plenty of money and all the rest of it . 
Where'll you get such another chance ? You'll not be fool enough to refuse . 
She smiled , said as she went , You may remember I used to be something of a fool . 
But that was some time ago . 
You've learned a lot since then surely . 
I've become I think a good deal of a of a New Yorker . 
That means frank about doing what the rest of the world does under a stack of lies . 
It's a lovely world , isn't it ? If I had made it , laughed Susan , I'd not own up to the fact . 
She laughed but she was seeing the old women of the slums was seeing them as one sees in the magic mirror the vision of one's future self . 
And on the way home she said to herself , It was a good thing that I was arrested today . 
But for it , I might have gone on to make a fool of myself . 
And she recalled how it had been one of Burlingham's favorite maxims that everything is for the best , for those who know how to use it . 
XVIII SHE wrote Garvey asking an appointment . 
The reply should have come the next day or the next day but one at the farthest for Garvey had been trained by Brent to the supreme courtesy of promptness . 
She really had her answer was left without a doubt for hope to perch upon . 
But she wrote again , insisting so sharply that he came the following day . 
His large , tell tale face was a restatement of what she had read in his delay and between the lines of his note . 
He was effusively friendly with a sort of mortuary suggestion , like one bearing condolences , that tickled her sense of humor , far though her heart was from mirth . 
Something has happened , began she , that makes it necessary for me to know when Mr. Brent is coming back . 
Really , Mrs. Spencer Miss Lenox , she corrected . 
Yes Miss Lenox , I beg your pardon . 
But really in my position I know nothing of Mr. Brent's plans and if I did , I'd not be at liberty to speak of them . 
I have written him what you wrote me about the check and and that is all . 
Mr. Garvey , is he ever has he Susan , desperate , burst out with more than she intended to say I care nothing about it , one way or the other . 
If Mr. Brent is politely hinting that I won't do , I've a right to know it . 
I have a chance at something else . 
Can't you tell me ? I don't know anything about it honestly I don't , Miss Lenox , cried he , swearing profusely . 
You put an accent on the know , said Susan . 
You suspect that I'm right , don't you ? I've no ground for suspecting that is no , I haven't . 
He said nothing to me nothing . 
He's very peculiar and uncertain . 
and I don't understand him at all . 
But Garvey could take but the one view of the favor or disfavor of the god of his universe . 
He looked at her like a dog that is getting a whipping from a friend . 
Now , Miss Lenox , you've no right to put me in this painful That's true , said Susan , done since she had got what she sought . 
I shan't say another word . 
And I'm sure he will be , too . 
For I'm sure he liked you , personally and I must say I was surprised when he went . 
But I must not say that sort of thing . 
Indeed , I know nothing , Miss Lenox I assure you And please tell him , interrupted Susan , that I'd have written him myself , only I don't want to bother him . 
Oh , no no , indeed . 
Not that , Miss Lenox . 
But I'm only the secretary . 
It was some time before Susan could get rid of him , though he was eager to be gone . 
Well he should have no trouble in getting rid of her . 
She was seeing little of Spenser and they were saying almost nothing to each other . 
When he came at night , always very late , she was in bed and pretended sleep . 
When he awoke , she got breakfast in silence they read the newspapers as they ate . 
And he could not spare the time to come to dinner . 
As the decisive moment drew near , his fears dried up his confident volubility . 
He changed his mind and insisted on her coming to the theater for the final rehearsals . 
The agitation , the labor seemed grotesquely out of proportion to the triviality of the matter at issue . 
The play went better than she had expected , and the enthusiasm of the audience convinced her that it was a success before the fall of the curtain on the second act . 
With the applause that greeted the chief climax the end of the third act Spenser , Sperry and Fitzalan were convinced . 
All three responded to curtain calls . 
Susan had never seen Spenser so handsome , and she admired the calmness and the cleverness of his brief speech of thanks . 
She was as fond of him as she had ever been but it was impossible for her to feel any thrill approaching love . 
Why ? She looked at his fine face and manly figure she recalled how many good qualities he had . 
Why had she ceased to love him ? She thought perhaps some mystery of physical lack of sympathy was in part responsible then there was the fact that she could not trust him . 
With many women , trust is not necessary to love on the contrary , distrust inflames love . 
It happened not to be so with Susan Lenox . 
I do not love him . 
I can never love him again . 
And when he uses his power over me , I shall begin to dislike him . 
The lost illusion ! The dead love ! If she could call it back to life ! But no there it lay , coffined , the gray of death upon its features . 
After the play Fitzalan took the authors and the leading lady , Constance Francklyn , and Miss Lenox to supper in a private room at Rector's . 
This was Miss Francklyn's first trial in a leading part . 
But she had a notable figure of the lank , serpentine kind and a bad , sensual face that harmonized with it . 
Especially in artificial light she had an uncanny allure of the elemental , the wild animal in the jungle . 
And every time she has gone crazy about some cheap actor or sport and has thrown it away . 
But she'll get on now , said Susan . 
Perhaps , was Sperry's doubting reply . 
Of course , she's got no brains . 
But it doesn't take brains to act that is , to act well enough for cheap machine made plays like this . 
And nowadays playwrights have learned that it's useless to try to get actors who can act . 
They try to write parts that are actor proof . 
You don't like your play ? said Susan . 
Like it ? I love it . 
Isn't it going to bring me in a pot of money ? But as a play Sperry laughed . 
I know Spenser thinks it's great , but there's only one of us who can write plays , and that's Brent . 
It takes a clever man to write a clever play . 
But it takes a genius to write a clever play that'll draw the damn fools who buy theater seats . 
And Robert Brent now and then does the trick . 
How are you getting on with your ambition for a career ? Susan glanced nervously at him . 
The question , coming upon the heels of talk about Brent , filled her with alarm lest Rod had broken his promise and had betrayed her confidence . 
But Sperry's expression showed that she was probably mistaken . 
My ambition ? said she . 
Oh I've given it up . 
The thought of work was too much for you eh ? Susan shrugged her shoulders . 
A sardonic grin flitted over Sperry's Punch like face . 
The more I see of women , the less I think of 'em , said he . 
But I suppose the men'd be lazy and worthless too , if nature had given 'em anything that'd sell or rent . 
Somehow I'm disappointed in you , though . 
That ended the conversation until they were sitting down at the table . 
Then Sperry said Are you offended by my frankness a while ago ? No , replied Susan . 
Some day your saying that may help me . 
It's quite true , there's something about you a look a manner it makes one feel you could do things if you tried . 
I'm afraid that something' is a fraud , said she . 
No doubt it was that something that had misled Brent that had always deceived her about herself . 
No , she must not think herself a self deceived dreamer . 
Even if it was so , still she must not think it . 
She must say to herself over and over again Brent or no Brent , I shall get on I shall get on until she had silenced the last disheartening doubt . 
Miss Francklyn , with Fitzalan on her left and Spenser on her right , was seated opposite Susan . 
About the time the third bottle was being emptied the attempts of Spenser and Constance to conceal from her their doings became absurd . 
Sperry admired Susan's manners as displayed in her unruffled serenity an admiration which she did not in the least deserve . 
She was in fact as deeply interested as she seemed in his discussion of plays and acting , illustrated by Brent's latest production . 
At the door of the restaurant , Spenser said Susan , you and Miss Francklyn take a taxicab . 
She'll drop you at our place on her way home . 
Fitz and Sperry and I want one more drink . 
Not for me , said Sperry savagely , with a scowl at Constance . 
But Fitzalan , whose arm Susan had seen Rod press , remained silent . 
Come on , my dear , cried Miss Francklyn , smiling sweet insolent treachery into Susan's face . 
Susan smiled sweetly back at her . 
As she was leaving the taxicab in Forty fifth Street , she said Send Rod home by noon , won't you ? And don't tell him I know . 
Miss Francklyn , who had been drinking greedily , began to cry . 
Don't be a silly , she urged . 
If I'm not upset , why should you be ? And how could I blame you two for getting crazy about each other ? I wouldn't spoil it for worlds . 
I want to help it on . 
Don't you love him really ? cried Constance , face and voice full of the most thrilling theatricalism . 
I'm very fond of him , replied Susan . 
We're old , old friends . 
But as to love I'm where you'll be a few months from now . 
Miss Francklyn dried her eyes . 
Isn't it the devil ! she exclaimed . 
Why can't it last ? Why , indeed , said Susan . 
Good night and don't forget to send him by twelve o'clock . 
And she hurried up the steps without waiting for a reply . 
She felt that the time for action had again come that critical moment which she had so often in the past seen come and had let pass unheeded . 
He was in love with another woman he was prosperous , assured of a good income for a long time , though he wrote no more successes . 
No need to consider him . 
For herself , then what ? Clearly , there could be no future for her with Rod . 
Clearly , she must go . 
Must go must take the only road that offered . 
The old women of the tenements , the old women of the gutters , the old women drunk and dancing as the lecherous eyed hunchback played the piano . 
When she left him before , she had gone sustained by the feeling that she was doing it for him , was doing a duty . 
Now , she was going merely to save herself , to further herself . 
Life , life in that great and hard school of practical living , New York , had given her the necessary hardiness to go , aided by Rod's unfaithfulness and growing uncongeniality . 
But not while she lived could she ever learn to be hard . 
She would do what she must she was no longer a fool . 
But she could not help sighing and crying a little as she did it . 
It was not many minutes after noon when Spenser came . 
He looked so sheepish and uncomfortable that Susan thought Constance had told him . 
But his opening sentence of apology was I took too many nightcaps and Fitz had to lug me home with him . 
How disappointed Constance must have been ! Spenser was not a good liar . 
His face twisted and twitched so that Susan laughed outright . 
Why , you look like a caught married man , cried she . 
You forget we're both free . 
Whatever put that crazy notion in your head about Miss Francklyn ? demanded he . 
When you take me or anyone for that big a fool , Rod , you only show how foolish you yourself are , said she with the utmost good humor . 
The best way to find out how much sense a person has is to see what kind of lies he thinks'll deceive another person . 
Now don't get jealous , Susie , soothed he . 
You know how a man is . 
The tone was correctly contrite , but Susan felt underneath the confidence that he would be forgiven the confidence of the egotist giddied by a triumph . 
Said she Don't you think mine's a strange way of acting jealous ? But you're a strange woman . 
Susan looked at him thoughtfully . 
Yes , I suppose I am , said she . 
And you'll think me stranger when I tell you what I'm going to do . 
He started up in a panic . 
And the fear in his eyes pleased her , at the same time that it made her wince . 
Yes , Rod I'm leaving . 
I'll drop Constance , cried he . 
I'll have her put out of the company . 
No go on with her till you've got enough or she has . 
I've got enough , this minute , declared he with convincing energy and passion . 
You must know , dearest , that to me Constance all the women I've ever seen aren't worth your little finger . 
You're all that they are , and a whole lot more besides . 
He seized her in his arms . 
But that doesn't affect the man's heart . 
I love you , Susan . 
She did not let him see how sincerely he had touched her . 
Her eyes were of their deepest violet , but he had never learned that sign . 
She smiled mockingly the fingers that caressed his hair were trembling . 
We've tided each other over , Rod . 
You're all right again and so am I. Now's the time to part . 
Is it Brent , Susie ? I quit him last week . 
You're going because of Constance ! She did not deny . 
You're free and so am I , said she practically . 
Don't make a silly scene . 
She knew how to deal with him how to control him through his vanity . 
He drew away from her , chilled and sullen . 
If you can live through it , I guess I can , said he . 
You're making a damn fool of yourself leaving a man that's fond of you and leaving when he's successful . 
I always was a fool , you know , said she . 
She had decided against explaining to him and so opening up endless and vain argument . 
Here was the kind of smile that hurts worse than tears , that takes the place of tears and sobs and moans . 
But he who had never understood her did not understand her now . 
Her smile infuriated his vanity . 
You can laugh ! he sneered . 
Well go to the filth where you belong ! You were born for it . 
And he flung out of the room , went noisily down the stairs . 
She heard the front door's distant slam it seemed to drop her into a chair . 
She sat there all crouched together until the clock on the mantel struck two . 
This roused her hastily to gather into her trunk such of her belongings as she had not already packed . 
She sent for a cab . 
The man of all work carried down the trunk and put it on the box . 
Dressed in a simple blue costume as if for traveling , she entered the cab and gave the order to drive to the Grand Central Station . 
At the corner she changed the order and was presently entering the Beaux Arts restaurant where she had asked Freddie to meet her . 
He was there , smoking calmly and waiting . 
At sight of her he rose . 
You'll have lunch ? said he . 
A small bottle of champagne ? Yes I'm rather tired . 
And , said he , it'll be the real thing which mighty few New Yorkers get even at the best places . 
When it came he sent the waiter away and filled the glasses himself . 
He touched the brim of his glass to the bottom of hers . 
To the new deal , said he . 
She smiled and nodded , and emptied the glass . 
Suddenly it came to her why she felt so differently toward him . 
She saw the subtle , yet radical change that always transforms a man of force of character when his position in the world notably changes . 
This man before her , so slightly different in physical characteristics from the man she had fled , was wholly different in expression . 
When shall we sail ? asked he . 
Tomorrow ? First there's the question of money , said she . 
Still worrying about your independence . 
I've been thinking it out , and I don't feel any anxiety about that . 
I've changed my scheme of life . 
I'm going to be sensible and practice what life has taught me . 
It seems there's only one way for a woman to get up . 
By marriage or otherwise , but always through a man . 
So I've discovered , continued she . 
So , I'm going to play the game . 
And I think I can win now . 
With the aid of what I'll learn and with the chances I'll have , I can keep my feeling of independence . 
You see , if you and I don't get on well together , I'll be able to look out for myself . 
Or somebody eh ? Or somebody . 
Don't you want me to be candid ? But even if you don't , I've got to be . 
Yes truth especially disagreeable truth is your long suit , said he . 
I'm glad you went straight at the money question . 
We can settle it and never think of it again . 
And neither of us will be plotting to take advantage of the other , or fretting for fear the other is plotting . 
Sometimes I think nearly all the trouble in this world comes through failure to have a clear understanding about money matters . 
Said she thoughtfully , I guess that's why I came one of the main reasons . 
You are wonderfully sensible and decent about money . 
And the other chap isn't ? Oh , yes and no . 
He likes to make a woman feel dependent . 
He thinks but that doesn't matter . 
Now for our understanding with each other , said Palmer . 
You can have whatever you want . 
The other day you said you wanted some sort of a salary . 
But if you've changed No that's what I want . 
So much a year ? So much a week , replied she . 
I want to feel , and I want you to feel , that we can call it off at any time on seven days' notice . 
But that isn't what I want , said he and she , watching him closely if furtively , saw the strong lines deepen round his mouth . 
She was seeing the old woman's dance hall , was hearing the piano as the hunchback played and the old horrors reeled about , making their palsy rhythmic . 
She was seeing this , yet she dared . 
Then you don't want me , said she , so quietly that he could not have suspected her agitation . 
Never had her habit of concealing her emotion been so useful to her . 
He sat frowning at his glass debating . 
Finally he said I explained the other day what I was aiming for . 
Such an arrangement as you suggest wouldn't help . 
You see that ? It's all I can do at present , replied she firmly . 
And she was now ready to stand or fall by that decision . 
She had always accepted the other previous terms or whatever terms fate offered . 
Result each time , disaster . 
She must make no more fatal blunders . 
This time , her own terms or not at all . 
He was silent a long time . 
She knew she had convinced him that her terms were final . 
So , his delay could only mean that he was debating whether to accept or to go his way and leave her to go hers . 
At last he laughed and said You've become a true New Yorker . 
You know how to drive a hard bargain . 
He looked at her admiringly . 
You certainly have got courage . 
I happen to know a lot about your affairs . 
I've ways of finding out things . 
And I know you'd not be here if you hadn't broken with the other fellow first . 
So , if I turned your proposition down you'd be up against it wouldn't you ? Yes , said she . 
But I won't in any circumstances tie myself . 
You're right , said he . 
And I'll risk your sticking . 
If I were bound , but didn't want to stay , would I be of much use ? Of no use . 
You can quit on seven minutes' notice , instead of seven days . 
And you , also , said she . 
She began to like him in a new and more promising way . 
Here was a man , who at least was cast in a big mold . 
Nothing small and cheap about him and Brent had made small cheap men forever intolerable to her . 
Yes , here was a man of the big sort and a big man couldn't possibly be a bad man . 
No matter how many bad things he might do , he would still be himself , at least , a scorner of the pettiness and sneakiness and cowardice inseparable from villainy . 
And now , said he , let's settle the last detail . 
How much a week ? How would five hundred strike you ? That's more than twelve times the largest salary I ever got . 
It's many times as much as I made in the No matter , he hastily interposed . 
It's the least you can hold down the job on . 
You've got to spend money for clothes and so on . 
Two hundred is the most I can take , said she . 
He insisted , but she remained firm . 
I will not accustom myself to much more than I see any prospect of getting elsewhere , explained she . 
Perhaps later on I'll ask for an increase later on , when I see how things are going and what my prospects elsewhere would be . 
But I must begin modestly . 
Well , let it go at two hundred for the present . 
I'll deposit a year's salary in a bank , and you can draw against it . 
Is that satisfactory ? You don't want me to hand you two hundred dollars every Saturday , do you ? No. That would get on my nerves , said she . 
When shall we sail ? There's a girl I've got to look up before I go . 
Maud ? You needn't bother about her . 
She's married to a piker from up the state a shoe manufacturer . 
She's got a baby , and is fat enough to make two or three like what she used to be . 
I hoped we could sail tomorrow . 
Why not take a taxi and go after her now ? It may be a long search . 
She's a ? He did not need to finish his sentence in order to make himself understood . 
Oh , let her I promised , interrupted she . 
Freddie drew from his trousers pocket a huge roll of bills . 
Susan smiled at this proof that he still retained the universal habit of gamblers , politicians and similar loose characters of large income , precariously derived . 
He counted off three hundreds and four fifties and held them out to her . 
Let me in on it , said he . 
Susan took the money without hesitation . 
I don't think I'll need money , said she . 
You've got a trunk and a bag on the cab outside , he went on . 
I've told them at Sherry's that I'm to be married . 
She hastily lowered her eyes . 
But she need not have feared lest he should suspect the cause of the blush . 
a strange , absurd resentment of the idea that she could be married to Freddie Palmer . 
But marry now that it was thus squarely presented to her , she found it unthinkable . 
She did not pause to analyze this feeling , indeed could not have analyzed it , had she tried . 
It was , however , a most interesting illustration of how she had been educated at last to look upon questions of sex as a man looks on them . 
She was like the man who openly takes a mistress whom he in no circumstances would elevate to the position of wife . 
So , he proceeded , you might as well move in at Sherry's . 
Let's not begin the new deal until we sail . 
The wisdom of this was obvious . 
Then we'll take your things over to the Manhattan Hotel , said he . 
And we'll start the search from there . 
But after registering at the Manhattan as Susan Lenox , she started out alone . 
She would not let him look in upon any part of her life which she could keep veiled . 
XIX SHE left the taxicab at the corner of Grand Street and the Bowery , and plunged into her former haunts afoot . 
Once again she had it forced upon her how meaningless in the life history are the words time and space . 
She was now hardly any distance , as measurements go , from her present world , and she had lived here only a yesterday or so ago . 
Yet what an infinity yawned between ! At the Delancey Street apartment house there was already a new janitress , and the kinds of shops on the ground floor had changed . 
When we go out into the streets with bereavement in mind , we see nothing but people dressed in mourning . 
And a similar thing occurs , whatever the emotion that oppresses us . 
They used to come out only at night . 
Prosperous , civilized New York ! A group of these children were playing some rough game , in imitation of their elders , that was causing several to howl with pain . 
She heard a woman , being shown about by a settlement worker or some such person , say Really , not at all badly dressed for street games . 
I must confess I don't see signs of the misery they talk so much about . 
A wave of fury passed through Susan . 
She recalled this little girl as the formerly pretty and lively youngster , the daughter of the janitress . 
She went past the child without disturbing her , knocked at the janitress' door . 
It presently opened , disclosing in a small and foul room four prematurely old women , all in the family way , two with babies in arms . 
One of these was the janitress . 
Though she was not a Jewess , she was wearing one of the wigs assumed by orthodox Jewish women when they marry . 
She stared at Susan with not a sign of recognition . 
I am looking for Miss Clara , said Susan . 
The janitress debated , shifted her baby from one arm to the other , glanced inquiringly at the other women . 
They shook their heads she looked at Susan and shook her head . 
There ain't a Clara , said she . 
Perhaps she's took another name ? Perhaps , conceded Susan . 
And she described Clara and the various dresses she had had . 
At the account of one with flounces on the skirts and lace puffs in the sleeves , the youngest of the women showed a gleam of intelligence . 
You mean the girl with the cancer of the breast , said she . 
She could not articulate she nodded . 
Oh , yes , said the janitress . 
She had the third floor back , and was always kicking because Mrs. Pfister kept a guinea pig for her rheumatism and the smell came through . 
Has she gone ? asked Susan . 
Where ? The janitress shrugged her shoulders . 
The other women shrugged their shoulders . 
Said the janitress Her feller stopped coming . 
The cancer got awful bad . 
I've saw a good many they're quite plentiful down this way . 
I never see a worse'n hers . 
She didn't have no money . 
Up to the hospital they tried a new cure on her that made her gallopin' worse . 
The day before I was going to have to go to work and put her out she left . 
Can't you give me any idea ? urged Susan . 
She didn't take her things , said the janitress meaningly . 
The the river ? The janitress shrugged her shoulders . 
She always said she would , and I guess Again the fat , stooped shoulders lifted and lowered . 
She was most crazy with pain . 
There was a moment's silence , then Susan murmured , Thank you , and went back to the hall . 
The house was exhaling a frightful stench the odor of cheap kerosene , of things that passed there for food , of animals human and lower , of death and decay . 
On her way out she dropped a dollar into the lap of the little girl with the mange . 
A parrot was shrieking from an upper window . 
On the topmost fire escape was a row of geraniums blooming sturdily . 
A baby's funeral this mockery of a ride in state after a brief life of squalor . 
It was summer , and the babies were dying like lambs in the shambles . 
In winter the grown people were slaughtered in summer the children . 
Susan hurried into her cab . 
Drive fast , she said . 
Her dear City of the Sun ! But it hurt her now , was hateful to look upon . 
She opened her eyes to shut out these sights and that sound of heartache . 
She gazed round , drew a long breath of relief . 
She had almost been afraid to look round lest she should find that her escape had been only a dream . 
And now the road she had chosen or , rather , the only road she could take the road with Freddie Palmer seemed attractive , even dazzling . 
Poor Clara ! Happy Clara ! better off in the dregs of the river than she had ever been in the dregs of New York . 
Then , as so often , the sense of the grotesque thrust in , as out of place as jester in cap and bells at a bier and she smiled sardonically . 
Why , thought she , in being squeamish about Freddie I'm showing that I'm more respectable than the respectable women . 
There's hardly one of them that doesn't swallow worse doses with less excuse or no excuse at all and without so much as a wry face . 
XX IN the ten days on the Atlantic and the Mediterranean Mr. and Mrs. Palmer , as the passenger list declared them , planned the early stages of their campaign . 
Several men aboard knew Palmer slightly knew him vaguely as a big politician and contractor . 
They had a hazy notion that he was reputed to have been a thug and a grafter . 
But New Yorkers have few prejudices except against guilelessness and failure . 
They are well aware that the wisest of the wise Hebrew race was never more sagacious than when he observed that he who hasteth to be rich shall not be innocent . 
And his Italian blood put into his good looks an ancient and aristocratic delicacy that made it incredible that he was of low origin . 
Thank God , said Freddie , I had sense enough not to get a jail smell on me ! Susan colored painfully and Palmer , the sensitive , colored also . 
But he had the tact that does not try to repair a blunder by making a worse one he pretended not to see Susan's crimson flush . 
Her past would not be an easy matter if it should ever rise to face her publicly . 
Therefore it must not rise till Freddie and she were within the walls of the world they purposed to enter by stealth , and had got themselves well intrenched . 
There would be nasty rumors , dreadful stories , perhaps . 
One glance at Susan would be enough to make doubters laugh at their doubts . 
The familiar types of fast women of all degrees come from the poorest kinds of farms and from the tenements . 
Thus Susan's beauty of refinement , her speech and manner of the lady , made absurd any suggestion that she could ever have been a fallen woman . 
The crimson splash of her rouged lips did not suggest the cocotte , but the lady with a dash of gayety in her temperament . 
This , because of the sweet , sensitive seriousness of her small , pallid face with its earnest violet gray eyes and its frame of abundant dark hair , simply and gracefully arranged . 
The demand for the luxurious comfort which the educated regard as merely decent existence is far outstripping the demand for , and the education of , women in lucrative occupations other than prostitution . 
Luckily Susan had not been arrested under her own name there existed no court record which could be brought forward as proof by some nosing newspaper . 
Susan herself marveled that there was not more trace of her underworld experience in her face and in her mind . 
She could not account for it . 
Yet the matter was simple enough to one viewing it from the outside . 
It is what we think , what we feel about ourselves , that makes up our expression of body and soul . 
And never in her lowest hour had her soul struck its flag and surrendered to the idea that she was a fallen creature . 
She had a temperament that estimated her acts not as right and wrong but as necessity . 
Men , all the rest of the world , might regard her as nothing but sex symbol she regarded herself as an intelligence . 
And the filth slipped from her and could not soak in to change the texture of her being . 
She had no more the feeling or air of the cocotte than has the married woman who lives with her husband for a living . 
Sometimes in cocottes , in stage women , in fashionable women this expression is self conscious , or supercilious . 
It was not so with Susan , for she had little self consciousness and no snobbishness at all . 
It merely gave the charm of worldly experience and expertness to a beauty which , without it , might have been too melancholy . 
Susan , become by sheer compulsion philosopher about the vagaries of fat , did not fret over possible future dangers . 
She dismissed them and put all her intelligence and energy to the business in hand to learning and to helping Palmer learn the ways of that world which includes all worlds . 
Toward the end of the voyage she said to him About my salary or allowance or whatever it is I've been thinking things over . 
I've made up my mind to save some money . 
My only chance is that salary . 
Have you any objection to my saving it as much of it as I can ? He laughed . 
Tuck away anything and everything you can lay your hands on , said he . 
I'm not one of those fools who try to hold women by being close and small with them . 
I'd not want you about if you were of the sort that could be held that way . 
No I'll put by only from my salary , said she . 
I admit I've no right to do that . 
But I've become sensible enough to realize that I mustn't ever risk being out again with no money . 
It has got on my mind so that I'd not be able to think of much else for worrying unless I had at least a little . 
Do you want me to make you independent ? No , replied she . 
Whatever you gave me I'd have to give back if we separated . 
That isn't the way to get on , my dear , said he . 
It's the best I can do as yet , replied she . 
And it's quite an advance on what I was . 
Yes , I am learning slowly . 
Save all your salary , then , said Freddie . 
When you buy anything charge it , and I'll attend to the bill . 
Her expression told him that he had never made a shrewder move in his life . 
He knew he had made himself secure against losing her for he knew what a force gratitude was in her character . 
Her mind was now free free for the educational business in hand . 
She appreciated that he had less to learn than she . 
Until recently among the higher races such small development of the intelligence of woman as her seclusion and servitude permitted was sporadic and exotic . 
Nothing intelligent was expected of her and it is only under the compulsion of peremptory demand that any human being ever is roused from the natural sluggishness . 
But civilization , created by man , was created for woman . 
But to become a female citizen of the world is not so easy . 
They aspire to the clouds and the stars at once and arrive nowhere except in talk and pretense and flaunting of ill fitting borrowed plumage . 
They flap their gaudy artificial wings there is motion , but no ascent . 
Susan wished to build and build solidly . 
She began with the so called trifles . 
When they had been at Naples a week Palmer said Don't you think we'd better push on to Paris ? I can't go before Saturday , replied she . 
I've got several fittings yet . 
It's pretty dull here for me with you spending so much time in the shops . 
I suppose the women's shops are good hesitatingly but I've heard those in Paris are better . 
The shops here are rotten . 
Italian women have no taste in dress . 
And the Paris shops are the best in the world . 
Then let's clear out , cried he . 
But I didn't like to say anything , you seemed so busy . 
And can you stand it three days more ? But you'll only have to throw away the stuff you buy here . 
Why buy so much ? I'm not buying much . 
Two ready to wear Paris dresses models they call them and two hats . 
Why , at that rate , protested he , it'll take you all winter to get together your winter clothes , and no time left to wear 'em . 
You don't understand , said she . 
I'm getting ready to make a good first impression on the dressmakers and milliners in Paris . 
Oh , you'll have the money , and that'll make 'em step round . 
Don't you believe it , replied she . 
All the money in the world won't get you fashionable clothes . 
at the most fashionable place . 
It'll only get you costly clothes . 
Maybe that's so for women's things . 
I'm not sure of that . 
When we get to Paris , we'll see . 
But certainly it's true for women . 
So I'm having these miserable dressmakers fit those dresses on me until they're absolutely perfect . 
It's wearing me out , but I'll be glad I did it . 
Palmer had profound respect for her as a woman who knew what she was about . 
So he settled himself patiently and passed the time investigating the famous Neapolitan political machine with the aid of an interpreter guide whom he hired by the day . 
He was enthusiastic over the dresses and the hats when Susan at last had them at the hotel and showed herself to him in them . 
They certainly did work an amazing change in her . 
They were the first real Paris models she had ever worn . 
Maybe it's because I never thought much about women's clothes before , said Freddie , but those things seem to be the best ever . 
How they do show up your complexion and your figure ! And I hadn't any idea your hair was as grand as all that . 
I'm a little afraid of you . 
We've got to get acquainted all over again . 
These clothes of mine look pretty poor , don't they ? Yet I paid all kinds of money for 'em at the best place in Fifth Avenue . 
He felt that his dreams were beginning to come true . 
We'll do the trick ! cried he . 
Don't you think about money when you're buying clothes . 
It's a joy to give up for clothes for you . 
You make 'em look like something . 
Wait till I've shopped a few weeks in Paris , said Susan . 
Let's start tonight , cried he . 
I'll telegraph to the Ritz for rooms . 
When she began to dress in her old clothes for the journey , he protested . 
Throw all these things away , he urged . 
Wear one of the new dresses and hats . 
But they're not exactly suitable for traveling . 
People'll think you lost your baggage . 
I don't want ever to see you again looking any way except as you ought to look . 
No , I must take care of those clothes , said she firmly . 
It'll be weeks before I can get anything in Paris , and I must keep up a good front . 
He had not been so much in jest as he thought when he said to her that they would have to get acquainted all over again . 
Those new clothes of hers brought out startlingly so clearly that even his vanity was made uneasy the subtle yet profound difference of class between them . 
Now he had his ambition too close at heart to wish to rob her of her chief distinction he was disturbed about it , though , and looked forward to Paris with uneasiness . 
You must help me get my things , said he . 
I'd be glad to , said she . 
And you must be frank with me , and tell me where I fall short of the best of the women we see . 
The idea that he could help her seemed fantastic . 
He did not like to linger on this puzzle the more he worked at it , the farther away from him Susan seemed to get . 
Yet the puzzle would not let him drop it . 
They came in at the Gare de Lyon in the middle of a beautiful October afternoon . 
Usually , from late September or earlier until May or later , Paris has about the vilest climate that curses a civilized city . 
That year it so fell that the winter rains did not close in until late , and Paris reveled in a long autumn of almost New York perfection . 
Susan and Palmer drove to the Ritz through Paris , the lovely , the gay . 
It's the first thing I've ever seen that was equal to what I had dreamed about it , replied she . 
They had chosen the Ritz as their campaign headquarters because they had learned that it was the most fashionable hotel in Paris which meant in the world . 
There were hotels more grand , the interpreter guide at Naples had said there were hotels more exclusive . 
There were even hotels more comfortable . 
But for fashion , said he , it is the summit . 
There you see the most beautiful ladies , most beautifully dressed . 
There you see the elegant world at tea and at dinner . 
At first glance they were somewhat disappointed in the quiet , unostentatious general rooms . 
The suite assigned them at a hundred and twenty francs a day was comfortable , was the most comfortable assemblage of rooms either had ever seen . 
But there was nothing imposing . 
This impression did not last long , however . 
They had been misled by their American passion for looks . 
They soon discovered that the guide at Naples had told the literal truth . 
They went down for tea in the garden , which was filled as the day was summer warm . 
Their eyes and their thoughts were too busy for speech one cannot talk when one is thinking . 
About them were people of the world of which neither had before had any but a distant glimpse . 
They heard English , American , French , Italian . 
Well we're right in it , for sure , said Freddie , dropping to a sofa in their suite and lighting a cigarette . 
Yes , said Susan , with a sigh . 
In it but not of it . 
I almost lost my nerve as I sat there . 
And for the life of me I can't tell why . 
Those people know how , replied Susan . 
Well what they've learned we can learn . 
Sure , said he energetically . 
It's going to take a lot of practice a lot of time . 
His expression , its suggestion of helplessness and appeal , was a clear confession of a feeling that she was his superior . 
We're both of us ignorant , she hastened to say . 
But when we get our bearings in a day or two we'll be all right . 
Let's have dinner up here in the sitting room . 
I haven't got the nerve to face that gang again today Nonsense ! laughed she . 
We mustn't give way to our feelings not for a minute . 
There'll be a lot of people as badly off as we are . 
I saw some this afternoon and from the way the waiters treated them , I know they had money or something . 
Put on your evening suit , and you'll be all right . 
I'm the one that hasn't anything to wear . 
But I've got to go and study the styles . 
I must begin to learn what to wear and now to wear it . 
We've come to the right place , Freddie . 
Cheer up ! He felt better when he was in evening clothes which made him handsome indeed , bringing out all his refinement of feature and coloring . 
He was almost cheerful when Susan came into the sitting room in the pale gray of her two new toilettes . 
It might be , as she insisted , that she was not dressed properly for fashionable dining but there would be no more delicate , no more lady like loveliness . 
He quite recovered his nerve when they faced the company that had terrified him in prospect . 
He saw many commonplace looking people , not a few who were downright dowdy . 
And presently he had the satisfaction of realizing that not only Susan but he also was getting admiring attention . 
He no longer floundered panic stricken his feet touched bottom and he felt foolish about his sensations of a few minutes before . 
After all , the world over , dining in a restaurant is nothing but dining in a restaurant . 
The food was wonderful , and the champagne , English taste , was the best he had ever drunk . 
Halfway through dinner both he and Susan were in the happiest frame of mind . 
The other people were drinking too , were emerging from caste into humanness . 
Women gazed languorously and longingly at the handsome young American men sent stealthy or open smiles of adoration at Susan whenever Freddie's eyes were safely averted . 
But Susan was more careful than a woman of the world to which she aspired would have been she ignored the glances and without difficulty assumed the air of wife . 
I don't believe we'll have any trouble getting acquainted with these people , said Freddie . 
We don't want to , yet , replied she . 
Oh , I feel we'll soon be ready for them , said he . 
Yes that , said she . 
But that amounts to nothing . 
This isn't to be merely a matter of clothes and acquaintances at least , not with me . 
What then ? inquired he . 
Oh we'll see as we get our bearings . 
She could not have put into words the plans she was forming plans for educating and in every way developing him and herself . 
She was not sure at what she was aiming , but only of the direction . 
She had no idea how far she could go herself or how far he would consent to go . 
The wise course was just to work along from day to day keeping the direction . 
I'll do as you say . 
Other peoples , if they think at all , think how to avoid work the Parisians think incessantly , always , how to provide themselves with more to do . 
Other peoples meet a new idea as if it were a mortal foe the Parisians as if it were a long lost friend . 
Being intelligent , they prefer good to evil but they have God's own horror of that which is neither good nor evil , and spew it out of their mouths . 
A week passed before Susan permitted herself to enter any of the shops where she intended to buy dresses , hats and the other and lesser paraphernalia of the woman of fashion . 
I mustn't go until I've seen , said she . 
I'd yield to the temptation to buy and would regret it . 
And Freddie , seeing her point , restrained his impatience for making radical changes in himself and in her . 
Secure in the obscurity of the crowd of strangers , he was losing his extreme nervousness about himself . 
That sort of emotion is most characteristic of Americans and gets them the reputation for profound snobbishness . 
In fact , it is not snobbishness at all . 
In no country on earth is ignorance in such universal disrepute as in America . 
Susan let full two weeks pass before she , with much hesitation , gave her first order toward the outfit on which Palmer insisted upon her spending not less than five thousand dollars . 
Palmer had been going to the shops with her . 
She warned him it would make prices higher if she appeared with a prosperous looking man but he wanted occupation and everything concerning her fascinated him now . 
His ignorance of the details of feminine dress was giving place rapidly to a knowledge which he thought profound and it was profound , for a man . 
She would not permit him to go with her to order , however , or to fittings . 
All she would tell him in advance about this first dress was that it was for evening wear and that its color was green . 
But not a greeny green , said she . 
A green something like the tint in your skin at the nape of your neck . 
We'll go to the opera the evening it comes home . 
I'll have my new evening outfit from Charvet's by that time . 
It was about ten days after this conversation that she told him she had had a final fitting , had ordered the dress sent home . 
He was instantly all excitement and rushed away to engage a good box for the opera . 
They were to dine at seven . 
He dressed early and went into their sitting room . 
He was afraid he would spoil his pleasure of complete surprise by catching a glimpse of the grande toilette before it was finished . 
At a quarter past seven Susan put her head into the sitting room only her head . 
At sight of his anxious face , his tense manner , she burst out laughing . 
It seemed , and was , grotesque that one so imperturbable of surface should be so upset . 
Can you stand the strain another quarter of an hour ? said she . 
Don't hurry , he urged . 
Take all the time you want . 
Do the thing up right . 
He rose and came toward her with one hand behind him . 
You said the dress was green , didn't you ? Yes . 
Well here's something you may be able to fit in somewhere . 
And he brought the concealed hand into view and held a jewel box toward her . 
She reached a bare arm through the crack in the door and took it . 
The box , the arm , the head disappeared . 
Presently there was a low cry of delight that thrilled him . 
Oh Freddie ! she exclaimed , radiant . 
You must have spent a fortune on them . 
No. Twelve thousand that's all . 
We'll talk about it afterward . 
And he gently pushed her head back getting a kiss in the palm of his hand and drew the door to . 
Ten minutes later the door opened part way again . 
Brace yourself , she called laughingly . 
A breathless pause and the door swung wide . 
He stared with eyes amazed and bewitched . 
Round her lovely throat was the string of emeralds . 
Her shoulders were bare and also her bosom , over nearly half its soft , girlish swell . 
And draped in light and clinging grace about her slender , sensuous form was the most wonderful garment he had ever seen . 
This dress of Susan's did not suggest matter any more than the bar of music suggests the rosined string that has given birth to it . 
She was carrying the train and a pair of long gloves in one hand . 
His expression changed slowly from bedazzlement to the nearest approach to the old slumbrous , smiling wickedness she had seen since they started . 
And her sensitive instinct understood it was the menace of an insane jealousy , sprung from fear fear of losing her . 
The look vanished , and once again he was Freddie Palmer the delighted , the generous and almost romantically considerate , because everything was going as he wished . 
No wonder I went crazy about you , he said . 
Then you're not disappointed ? He came to her , unclasped the emeralds , stood off and viewed her again . 
No you mustn't wear them , said he . 
Oh ! she cried , protesting . 
They're the best of all . 
Not tonight , said he . 
They spoil the effect of your neck and shoulders . 
Another time , when you're not quite so wonderful , but not tonight . 
As she could not see herself as he saw her , she pleaded for the jewels . 
She loved jewels and these were the first she had ever had , except two modest little birthday rings she had left in Sutherland . 
But he led her to the long mirror and convinced her that he was right . 
When they descended to the dining room , they caused a stir . 
Susan and Palmer congratulated themselves that they had been at the hotel long enough to become acclimated and so could act as if they were unconscious of the sensation they were creating . 
When they finished dinner , they found all the little tables in the long corridor between the restaurant and the entrance taken by people lingering over coffee to get another and closer view . 
A few very dim sighted , and very wise , retained their reason sufficiently to say that nothing could be told about a woman from her looks especially an American woman . 
She put on the magnificent cloak , white silk , ermine lined , which he had seen at Paquin's and had insisted on buying . 
And they were off for the opera in the aristocratic looking auto he was taking by the week . 
She had a second triumph at the opera was the center that drew all glasses the instant the lights went up for the intermission . 
And her ambition was for the moment in danger of that fate . 
During the last intermission the door of their box opened . 
At once Palmer sprang up and advanced with beaming face and extended hand to welcome the caller . 
Hello , Brent , I am glad to see you ! I want to introduce you to Mrs. Palmer that name pronounced with the unconscious pride of the possessor of the jewel . 
We , Palmer hastened on , are on a sort of postponed honeymoon . 
I didn't announce the marriage didn't want to have my friends out of pocket for presents . 
Besides , they'd have sent us stuff fit only to furnish out a saloon or a hotel and we'd have had to use it or hurt their feelings . 
My wife's a Western girl from Indiana . 
She came on to study for the stage . 
But he laughed delightedly I persuaded her to change her mind . 
You are from the West ? said Brent in the formal tone one uses in addressing a new acquaintance . 
So am I. But that's more years ago than you could count . 
I live in New York when I don't live here or in the Riviera . 
The moment had passed when Susan could , without creating an impossible scene , admit and compel Brent to admit that they knew each other . 
What did it matter ? Was it not best to ignore the past ? Probably Brent had done this deliberately , assuming that she was beginning a new life with a clean slate . 
Been here long ? said Brent to Palmer . 
As he and Palmer talked , she contrasted the two men . 
Palmer was much the younger , much the handsomer . 
Yet in the comparison Brent had the advantage . 
He looked as if he amounted to a great deal , as if he had lived and had understood life as the other man could not . 
The physical difference between them was somewhat the difference between look of lion and look of tiger . 
Brent looked strong Palmer , dangerous . 
She could not imagine either man failing of a purpose he had set his heart upon . 
She could not imagine Brent reaching for it in any but an open , direct , daring way . 
Brent was wearing his clothes in that elegantly careless way which it was one of Freddie's dreams one of the vain ones to attain . 
Brent's voice was much more virile , was almost harsh , and in pronouncing some words made the nerves tingle with a sensation of mingled irritation and pleasure . 
Freddie's voice was manly enough , but soft and dangerous , suggestive of hidden danger . 
She compared the two men , as she knew them . 
She wondered how they would seem to a complete stranger . 
It irritated her , this untimely intrusion of Brent who had the curious quality of making all other men seem less in the comparison . 
Not that he assumed anything , or forced comparisons on the contrary , no man could have insisted less upon himself . 
Not that he compelled or caused the transfer of all interest to himself . 
Simply that , with him there , she felt less hopeful of Palmer , less confident of his ability to become what he seemed and go beyond it . 
She was not glad to see him . 
She did not conceal it . 
Yet she knew that he would linger and that she would not oppose . 
She would have liked to say to him You lost belief in me and dropped me . 
I have begun to make a life for myself . 
Do not upset me do not force me to see what I must not see if I am to be happy . 
Go away , and give me a chance . 
Then you are to be in Paris some time ? said Brent , addressing her . 
I think so , said Susan . 
This is the town the world revolves round . 
I felt like singing Home , Sweet Home' as we drove from the station . 
I like it better than any place on earth , said Brent . 
Better even than New York . 
I've never been quite able to forgive New York for some of the things it made me suffer before it gave me what I wanted . 
I , too , said Freddie . 
My wife can't understand that . 
She doesn't know the side of life we know . 
I'm going to smoke a cigarette . 
I'll leave you here , old man , to entertain her . 
When he disappeared , Susan looked out over the house with an expression of apparent abstraction . 
Brent she was conscious studied her with those seeing eyes hazel eyes with not a bit of the sentimentality and weakness of brown in them . 
You and Palmer know no one here ? Not a soul . 
I'll be glad to introduce some of my acquaintances to you French people of the artistic set . 
And you'll soon be learning French . 
I intend to learn as soon as I've finished my fall shopping . 
You are not coming back to America ? Not for a long time . 
Then you will find my friends useful . 
She turned her eyes upon his . 
You are very kind , said she . 
But I'd rather we'd rather not meet anyone just yet . 
His eyes met hers calmly . 
It was impossible to tell whether he understood or not . 
After a few seconds he glanced out over the house . 
That is a beautiful dress , said he . 
You have real taste , if you'll permit me to say so . 
I was one of those who were struck dumb with admiration at the Ritz tonight . 
It's the first grand dress I ever possessed , said she . 
You love dresses and jewels and luxury ? As a starving man loves food . 
Then you are happy ? Perfectly so for the first time in my life . 
It is a kind of ecstasy isn't it ? I remember how it was with me . 
I had always been poor I worked my way through prep school and college . 
And I wanted all the luxuries . 
The more I had to endure the worse food and clothing and lodgings the madder I became about them , until I couldn't think of anything but getting the money to buy them . 
When I got it , I gorged myself . 
It's a pity the starving man can't keep on loving food keep on being always starving and always having his hunger satisfied . 
Ah , but he can . 
You think so , now . 
Wait till you are gorged . 
You don't know ! I could never get enough never ! His smile became even more mysterious . 
As he looked away , his profile presented itself to her view an outline of sheer strength , of tragic sadness the profile of those who have dreamed and dared and suffered . 
But the smile , saying no to her confident assertion , still lingered . 
She must compel that smile to take away its disquieting negation , its relentless prophecy of the end of her happiness . 
She must convince him that he had come back in vain , that he could not disturb her . 
You don't suggest to me the woman who can be content with just people and just things . 
You will always insist on luxury . 
But you will demand more . 
He looked at her again . 
And you will get it , he added , in a tone that sent a wave through her nerves . 
Palmer came in , bringing an odor of cologne and of fresh cigarette fumes . 
Palmer laid a detaining hand on his shoulder . 
Do stay on , Brent , and go to supper with us . 
I was about to ask you to supper with me . 
Have you been to the Abbaye ? No. We haven't got round to that yet . 
Is it lively ? And the food's the best in Paris . 
You'll come ? Brent was looking at Susan . 
Palmer , not yet educated in the smaller and important refinements of politeness , did not wait for her reply or think that she should be consulted . 
On condition that you dine with us tomorrow night . 
Very well , agreed Brent . 
And he excused himself to take leave of his friends . 
Just tell your chauffeur to go to the Abbaye he'll know , he said as he bowed over Susan's hand . 
I wish to be there ahead and make sure of a table . 
I've known him for years , said he , and he's the real thing . 
He used to spend a lot of time in a saloon I used to keep in Allen Street . 
Allen Street ? ejaculated Susan , shivering . 
I was twenty two then . 
He used to want to study types , as he called it . 
And I gathered in types for him though really my place was for the swell crooks and their ladies . 
How long ago that seems and how far away ! Another life , said Susan . 
This is my second time on earth . 
I tell you it's fighting for a foothold that makes men and women the wretches they are . 
Nowadays , I couldn't hurt a fly could you ? But then you never were cruel . 
That's why you stayed down so long . 
Susan smiled into the darkness of the auditorium the curtain was up , and they were talking in undertones . 
She said , as she smiled I'll never go down and stay down for that reason again . 
Her tone arrested his attention but he could make nothing of it or of her expression , though her face was clear enough in the reflection from the footlights . 
Anyhow , Brent and I are old pals , continued he , though we haven't seen so much of each other since he made a hit with the plays . 
He always used to predict I'd get to the top and be respectable . 
Now that it's come true , he'll help me . 
He'll introduce us , if we work it right . 
But we don't want that yet , protested Susan . 
You're ready and so am I , declared Palmer in the tone she knew had the full strength of his will back of it . 
Faint angry hissing from the stalls silenced them , but as soon as they were in the auto Susan resumed . 
I have told Mr. Brent we don't want to meet his friends yet . 
Now what the hell did you do that for ? demanded Freddie . 
It was the first time she had crossed him it was the first time he had been reminiscent of the Freddie she used to know . 
Because , said she evenly , I will not meet people under false pretenses . 
What rot ! I will not do it , replied she in the same quiet way . 
He assumed that she meant only one of the false pretenses the one that seemed the least to her . 
I am already married , said Susan . 
To a farmer out in Indiana . 
Well , I'll be damned ! You ! You ! He looked at her ermine lined cloak and laughed again . 
An Indiana farmer ! Then he suddenly sobered . 
Come to think of it , said he , that's the first thing you ever told me about your past . 
Or anybody else , said Susan . 
Her body was quivering , for we remember the past events with the sensations they made upon us at the time . 
She could smell that little room in the farmhouse . 
Allen Street and all the rest of her life in the underworld had for her something of the vagueness of dreams not only now but also while she was living that life . 
But not Ferguson , not the night when her innocent soul was ravished as a wolf rips up and munches a bleating lamb . 
He's probably dead or divorced you long ago . 
I can find out without stirring things up . 
What was his name ? Ferguson . 
What was his first name ? She tried to recall . 
I think it was Jim . 
Yes , it was Jim . 
She fancied she could hear the voice of that ferocious sister snapping out that name in the miserable little coop of a general room in that hot , foul , farm cottage . 
Where did he live ? His farm was at the edge of Zeke Warham's place not far from Beecamp , in Jefferson County . 
What are you thinking about ? he asked , when a remark brought no answer . 
The past , said she . 
Well we'll find out in a few days that your farmer's got no claim on you and we'll attend to that marriage contract and everything'll be all right . 
Do you want to marry me ? she asked , turning on him suddenly . 
We're as good as married already , replied he . 
Your tone sounds as if you didn't want to marry me . 
And he laughed at the absurdity of such an idea . 
I don't know whether I do or not , said she slowly . 
He laid a gentle strong hand on her knee . 
Gentle though it was , she felt its strength through the thickness of her cloak . 
When the time comes , said he in the soft voice with the menace hidden in it , you'll know whether you do or don't . 
You'll know you do Queenie . 
The auto was at the curb before the Abbaye . 
And on the steps , in furs and a top hat , stood the tall , experienced looking , cynical looking playwright . 
Susan's eyes met his , he lifted his hat , formal , polite . 
I'll bet he's got the best table in the place , said Palmer , before opening the door , and I'll bet it cost him a bunch . 
XXI BRENT had an apartment in the rue de Rivoli , near the Hotel Meurice and high enough to command the whole Tuileries garden . 
On that balcony , with the tides of traffic far below , one had a sense of being at the heart of the world , past , present , and to come . 
Susan admired , as he explained his scheme of life to her and Palmer when they visited his apartment . 
Always profound tranquillity in the midst of intense activity . 
As she listened , she looked about , her eyes taking in impressions to be studied at leisure . 
These quarters of his in Paris were fundamentally different from those in New York , were the expression of a different side of his personality . 
It was plain that he loved them , that they came nearer to expressing his real that is , his inmost self . 
Though I work harder in Paris than in New York , he explained , I have more leisure because it is all one kind of work writing at which I'm never interrupted . 
So I have time to make surroundings for myself . 
No one has time for surroundings in New York . 
She saw angels , beautiful and ugly , devils beautiful and ugly . 
When she began to notice this peculiarity of those rooms , she was simply interested . 
It was as if the ghosts of all these personalities , not one of them commonplace , were moving through the rooms , were pressing upon her . 
She understood why Brent had them there that they were as necessary to him as cadavers and skeletons and physiological charts to an anatomist . 
But they oppressed , suffocated her she went out on the balcony and watched the effects of the light from the setting sun upon and around the enormously magnified Arc . 
You don't like my rooms , said Brent . 
They fascinate me , replied she . 
But I'd have to get used to these friends of yours . 
You made their acquaintance one or a few at a time . 
It's very upsetting , being introduced to all at once . 
She felt Brent's gaze upon her that unfathomable look which made her uneasy , yet was somehow satisfying , too . 
He said , after a while , Palmer is to give me his photograph . 
Will you give me yours ? He was smiling . 
Both of you belong in my gallery . 
Of course she will , said Palmer , coming out on the balcony and standing beside her . 
I want her to have some taken right away in the evening dress she wore to the Opera last week . 
And she must have her portrait painted . 
When we are settled , said Susan . 
I've no time for anything now but shopping . 
They had come to inspect the apartment above Brent's , and had decided to take it Susan saw possibilities of making it over into the sort of environment of which she had dreamed . 
In novels the descriptions of interiors , which weary most readers , interested her more than story or characters . 
Now the chance to realize her dreams had come . 
Palmer had got acquainted with some high class sports , American , French and English , at an American bar in the rue Volney . 
He was spending his afternoons and some of his evenings with them in the evenings winning large sums from them at cards at which he was now as lucky as at everything else . 
Palmer , pleased by Brent's manner toward Susan formal politeness , indifference to sex was glad to have him go about with her . 
Also Palmer was one of those men who not merely imagine they read human nature but actually can read it . 
He knew he could trust Susan . 
And it had been his habit as it is the habit of all successful men to trust human beings , each one up to his capacity for resisting temptation to treachery . 
Brent doesn't care for women as women , said he . 
Don't you think he's queer ? He's different , replied Susan . 
He doesn't care much for people to have them as intimates . 
Love and friendship bore one or fail one and are unsatisfactory and disturbing . 
But if one centers one's life about things books , pictures , art , a career why , one is never bored or betrayed . 
He has solved the secret of happiness , I think . 
Do you think a woman could fall in love with him ? he asked , with an air of the accidental and casual . 
If you mean , could I fall in love with him , said she , I should say no . 
I think it would either amuse or annoy him to find that a woman cared about him . 
Amuse him most of all , said Palmer . 
He knows the ladies that they love us men for what we can give them . 
Did you ever hear of anyone , man or woman , who cared about a person who couldn't give them anything ? Freddie's laugh was admission that he thought her right . 
The way to get on in politics , observed he , is to show men that it's to their best interest to support you . 
And that's the way to get on in everything else including love . 
Susan knew that this was the truth about life , as it appeared to her also . 
But she could not divest herself of the human aversion to hearing the cold , practical truth . 
She wanted sugar coating on the pill , even though she knew the sugar made the medicine much less effective , often neutralized it altogether . 
Thus Palmer's brutally frank cynicism got upon her nerves , whereas Brent's equally frank cynicism attracted her because it was not brutal . 
Both men saw that life was a coarse practical joke . 
Palmer put the stress on the coarseness , Brent upon the humor . 
Brent recommended and introduced to her a friend of his , a young French Jew named Gourdain , an architect on the way up to celebrity . 
You will like his ideas and he will like yours , said Brent . 
She had acquiesced in his insistent friendship for Palmer and her , but she had not lowered by an inch the barrier of her reserve toward him . 
His speech and actions at all times , whether Palmer was there or not suggested that he respected the barrier , regarded it as even higher and thicker than it was . 
Nevertheless she felt that he really regarded the barrier as non existent . 
She said But I've never told you my ideas . 
I can guess what they are . 
Your surroundings will simply be an extension of your dress . 
She would not have let him see she would not have admitted to herself how profoundly the subtle compliment pleased her . 
Because a man's or a woman's intimate personal taste is good it by no means follows that he or she will build or decorate or furnish a house well . 
In matters of taste , the greater does not necessarily include the less , nor does the less imply the greater . 
An architect is like a milliner or a dressmaker . 
He supplies the model , product of his own individual taste . 
That is the object and the aim of civilization to encourage and to compel each individual to be frankly himself herself . 
That is the profound meaning of freedom . 
The world owes more to bad morals and to bad taste that are spontaneous than to all the docile conformity to the standards of morals and of taste , however good . 
Gourdain chiefly , no doubt , because Susan's beauty of face and figure and dress fascinated him was more eager to bring out her individuality than to show off his own talents . 
He took endless pains with her , taught her the technical knowledge and vocabulary that would enable her to express herself , then carried out her ideas religiously . 
You are right , mon ami , said he to Brent . 
She is an orchid , and of a rare species . 
She has a glorious imagination , like a bird of paradise balancing itself into an azure sky , with every plume raining color and brilliancy . 
Somewhat exaggerated , was Susan's pleased , laughing comment when Brent told her . 
But my friend Gourdain is stark mad about women's dressing well . 
That lilac dress you had on yesterday did for him . 
He was your servant he is your slave . 
Absently she glanced down at her foot , holding it out as if for inspection . 
She saw Brent's look of amusement at her seeming vanity . 
I was looking to see if my shoes were leaky , she explained . 
A subtle change came over his face . 
Have you ever been cold ? she asked , looking at him strangely . 
One cold February cold and damp I had no underclothes and no overcoat . 
And dirty beds filthy rooms filthy people ? A ten cent lodging house with a tramp for bedfellow . 
They were looking at each other , with the perfect understanding and sympathy that can come only to two people of the same fiber who have braved the same storms . 
Her enthusiasm for doing the apartment was due full as much to the fact that it gave her definitely directed occupation as to its congeniality . 
She had never lost the systematic instinct the instinct to use time instead of wasting it that Fanny Warham had implanted in her during the years that determine character . 
She had a regular life she read , she walked in the Bois she made the best of each day . 
And when this definite thing to accomplish offered , she did not have to learn how to work before she could begin the work itself . 
All this was nothing new to Gourdain . 
The finished apartment was a disappointment to Palmer . 
Its effects were too quiet , too restrained . 
Within certain small limits , those of the man of unusual intelligence but no marked originality , he had excellent taste or , perhaps , excellent ability to recognize good taste . 
But in the large he yearned for the grandiose . 
He loved the gaudy with which the rich surround themselves because good taste forbids them to talk of their wealth and such surroundings do the talking for them and do it more effectively . 
He would have preferred even a vulgar glitter to the unobtrusiveness of those rooms . 
But he knew that Susan was right , and he was a very human arrant coward about admitting that he had bad taste . 
This is beautiful exquisite , said he , with feigned enthusiasm . 
I'm afraid , though , it'll be above their heads . 
What do you mean ? inquired Susan . 
Palmer felt her restrained irritation , hastened to explain . 
I mean the people who'll come here . 
You have to look twice to appreciate this and people , the best of 'em , look only once and a mighty blind look it is . 
But Susan was not deceived . 
You must tell me what changes you want , said she . 
Her momentary irritation had vanished . 
Since Freddie was paying , Freddie must have what suited him . 
Oh , I've got nothing to suggest . 
Now that I've been studying it out , I couldn't allow you to make any changes . 
It does grow on one , doesn't it , Brent ? It will be the talk of Paris , replied Brent . 
The playwright's tone settled the matter for Palmer . 
Said he Thank God she hasn't put in any of those dirty old tapestry rags and the banged up , broken furniture and the patched crockery . 
At the same time she had produced an effect of long tenancy . 
There was nothing that glittered , nothing with the offensive sheen of the brand new . 
This suggestion came from an all pervading odor of a heavy , languorously sweet , sensuous perfume the same that Susan herself used . 
She had it made at a perfumer's in the faubourg St . 
Honore by mixing in a certain proportion several of the heaviest and most clinging of the familiar perfumes . 
You don't like my perfume ? she said to Brent one day . 
He was in the library , was inspecting her selections of books . 
Not always , said he . 
I had a hard stretch once just after I struck New York . 
I was a waiter for two months . 
Working people don't find time for reading and such things . 
That was one reason why I gave up work , said she . 
That and the dirt and the poor wages and the hopelessness and a few other reasons , said he . 
Why don't you like the perfume I use ? Why do you say that ? You made a queer face as you came into the drawing room . 
Do you like it ? What a queer question ! she said . 
No other man would have asked it . 
The obvious , said he , shrugging his shoulders . 
I couldn't help knowing you didn't like it . 
Then why should I use it ? His glance drifted slowly away from hers . 
He lit a cigarette with much attention to detail . 
Why should I use perfume I don't like ? persisted she . 
What's the use of going into that ? said he . 
But I do like it in a way , she went on after a pause . 
It is it seems to me the odor of myself . 
Yes it is , he admitted . 
Yet you made a wry face . 
At the odor ? At the odor . 
Do you think I ought to change to another perfume ? You know I do not . 
It's the odor of your soul . 
Your perfume is many things , but always always strong and tenacious and individual . 
A flush had overspread the pallor of her skin her long dark lashes hid her eyes . 
You have never been in love , he went on . 
So you told me once before . 
It was the first time either had referred to their New York acquaintance . 
You did not believe me then . 
But you do now ? For me there is no such thing as love , replied she . 
I understand affection I have felt it . 
It is a strong force in my life perhaps the strongest . 
No , said he , quiet but positive . 
I understand because I've felt both those things . 
But love two equal people united perfectly , merged into a third person who is neither yet is both that I have not felt . 
I've imagined it in some moments of passion . 
But she laughed and shrugged her shoulders and waved the hand with the cigarette between its fingers I have not felt it and I shall not feel it . 
I remain I. She paused , considered , added , And I prefer that . 
You are strong , said he , absent and reflective . 
Yes , you are strong . 
I don't know , replied she . 
Again She shook her head doubtfully . 
You would be dead if you were not . 
As strong in soul as in body . 
Anyhow , I am sure I shall always be alone . 
I shall visit I shall linger on my threshold and talk . 
Perhaps I shall wander in perfumed gardens and dream of comradeship . 
But I shall return chez moi . 
He rose sighed laughed at her and at himself . 
Don't delay too long , said he . 
My career ? Why , I am in the full swing of it . 
I'm at work in the only profession I'm fit for . 
The profession of woman ? Yes the profession of female . 
He winced and at this sign , if she did not ask herself what pleased her , she did not ask herself why . 
He said sharply , I don't like that . 
But you have only to hear it . 
Think of poor me who have to live it . 
Have to ? No , said he . 
Surely you're not suggesting that I drop back into the laboring classes ! No , thank you . 
If you knew , you'd not say anything so stupid . 
I do know , and I was not suggesting that . 
Under this capitalistic system the whole working class is degraded . 
They call what they do work , but that word ought to be reserved for what a man does when he exercises mind and body usefully . 
What the working class is condemned to by capitalism is not work but toil . 
The toil of a slave , said Susan . 
It's shallow twaddle or sheer want to talk about the dignity and beauty of labor under this system , he went on . 
It is ugly and degrading . 
And even the easier and better paid tasks , even what the capitalists themselves do those things aren't dignified and beautiful . 
Capitalism divides all men except those of one class the class to which I luckily belong divides all other men into three unlovely classes slave owners , slave drivers and slaves . 
But you're not interested in those questions . 
In wage slavery ? No. I wish to forget about it . 
Any alternative to being a wage slave or a slave driver or a slave owner . 
You don't appreciate your own good fortune , said he . 
Most human beings all but a very few have to be in the slave classes , in one way or another . 
They have to submit to the repulsive drudgery , with no advancement except to slave driver . 
As for women if they have to work , what can they do but sell themselves into slavery to the machines , to the capitalists ? But you you needn't do that . 
Nature endowed you with talent unusual talent , I believe . 
How lucky you are ! How superior to the great mass of your fellow beings who must slave or starve , because they have no talent ! Talent ? I ? said Susan . 
For what , pray ? For the stage . 
You evidently don't think me vain or you'd not venture that jest . 
For the stage , he repeated . 
Thanks , said she drily , but I'll not appeal from your verdict . 
My verdict ? What do you mean ? I prefer to talk of something else , said she coldly , offended by his unaccountable disregard of her feelings . 
This is bewildering , said he . 
And his manner certainly fitted the words . 
Believe me I was not disappointed in you . 
He spoke earnestly , apparently with sincerity . 
Your throwing it all up was one of the shocks of my life . 
She laughed mockingly to hide her sensitiveness . 
One of the shocks of my life , he repeated . 
She was looking at him curiously wondering why he was thus uncandid . 
It puzzled me , he went on . 
I've been lingering on here , trying to solve the puzzle . 
And the more I've seen of you the less I understand . 
He halted abruptly and wheeled to face her . 
But she felt she was not concealing herself from him . 
He resumed his march , presently to halt and wheel again upon her . 
But before he could speak , she stopped him . 
I don't wish to hear any more , said she , the strange look in her eyes . 
It was all she could do to hide the wild burst of emotion that had followed her discovery . 
Then she had not been without a chance for a real career ! She might have been free , might have belonged to herself It is not too late , cried he . 
It is too late , she said . 
It is not too late , repeated he , harshly , in his way that swept aside opposition . 
I shall get you back . 
Triumphantly , The puzzle is solved ! She faced him with a look of defiant negation . 
And I'll never go back . 
Never ! She repeated the never quietly , under her breath . 
His eyes looked as if they , without missing an essential detail , had swept the whole of that to which she would never go back . 
He said Go back ? No , indeed . 
Who's asking you to go back ? Not I. I'm not asking you to go anywhere . 
I'm simply saying that you will must go forward . 
If you were in love , perhaps not . 
But you aren't in love . 
I know from experience how men and women care for each other how they form these relationships . 
They find each other convenient and comfortable . 
But they care only for themselves . 
It's an unnatural life for you . 
You centering upon yourself upon comfort and convenience . 
Absurd ! I have chosen , said she . 
No you can't do it , he went on , as if she had not spoken . 
You may think so , but in reality you are getting ready for me . 
You are simply educating yourself . 
I shall have you back . 
She held the cigarette to her lips , inhaled the smoke deeply , exhaled it slowly . 
I will tell you why , he went on , as if he were answering a protest . 
Every one of us has an individuality of some sort . 
And in spite of everything and anything , except death or hopeless disease , that individuality will insist upon expressing itself . 
Mine is expressing itself , said she with a light smile the smile of a light woman . 
You can't rest in this present life of yours . 
Your individuality is too strong . 
It will have its way and for all your mocking smiling , you know I am right . 
I understand how you were tempted into it She opened her lips changed her mind and stopped her lips with her cigarette . 
I don't blame you and it was just as well . 
This life has taught you will teach you will advance you in your career . 
Tell me , what gave you the idea that I was disappointed ? She tossed her cigarette into the big ash tray . 
As I told you , it is too late . 
She rose and looked at him with a strange , sweet smile . 
I've got any quantity of faults , said she . 
But there's one I haven't got . 
You don't whine , assented he , and you don't lie and you don't shirk . 
Men and women have been canonized for less . 
I understand that for some reason you can't talk about Then why do you continue to press me ? said she , a little coldly . 
He accepted the rebuke with a bow . 
Nevertheless , said he , with raillery to carry off his persistence , I shall get you . 
If not sooner , then when the specter of an obscure perhaps poor old age begins to agitate the rich hangings of youth's banquet hall . 
That'll be a good many years yet , mocked she . 
And from her lovely young face flashed the radiant defiance of her perfect youth and health . 
Years that pass quickly , retorted he , unmoved . 
She was still radiant , still smiling , but once more she was seeing the hideous old women of the tenements . 
No danger of that now ? How little she was saving of her salary from Palmer ! She could not work men she simply could not . 
She would never put by enough to be independent and every day her tastes for luxury had firmer hold upon her . 
No danger ? As much danger as ever a danger postponed but certain to threaten some day and then , a fall from a greater height a certain fall . 
She was hearing the battered , shattered piano of the dive . 
For pity's sake Mrs. Palmer ! cried Brent , in a low voice . 
The beautiful room , the environment of luxury and taste and comfort came back . 
Gourdain interrupted and then Palmer . 
The four went to the Cafe Anglais for dinner . 
Brent announced that he was going to the Riviera soon to join a party of friends . 
I wish you would visit me later , said he , with a glance that included them all and rested , as courtesy required , upon Susan . 
There's room in my villa barely room . 
We've not really settled here , said Susan . 
And we've taken up French seriously . 
The weather's frightful , said Palmer , with a meaning glance at her . 
I think we ought to go . 
Next winter , then , said Brent , who was observing her . 
Or in the early spring , perhaps . 
Oh , we may change our minds and come , Palmer suggested eagerly . 
I'm going to try to persuade my wife . 
Come if you can , said Brent cordially . 
I'll have no one stopping with me . 
When they were alone , Palmer sent his valet away and fussed about impatiently until Susan's maid had unhooked her dress and had got her ready for bed . 
As the maid began the long process of giving her hair a thorough brushing , he said , Please let her go , Susan . 
I want to tell you something . 
She does not know a word of English . 
But these French are so clever that they understand perfectly with their eyes . 
Susan sent the maid to bed and sat in a dressing gown brushing her hair . 
It was long enough to reach to the middle of her back and to cover her bosom . 
It was very thick and wavy . 
Now that the scarlet was washed from her lips for the night , her eyes shone soft and clear with no relief for their almost tragic melancholy . 
He was looking at her in profile . 
Her expression was stern as well as sad the soul of a woman who has suffered and has been made strong , if not hard . 
I got a letter from my lawyers today , he began . 
It was about that marriage . 
At the word marriage , she halted the regular stroke of the brush . 
Her eyes gazed into the mirror of the dressing table through her reflection deep into her life , deep into the vistas of memory . 
As he unfolded the letter , she leaned back in the low chair , let her hands drop to her lap . 
The old bridge she was feeling its loose flooring sag and shift under the cautious hoofs of the horse . 
She was seeing Rod Spenser on the horse , behind him a girl , hardly more than a child under the starry sky exchanging confidences talking of their futures . 
So , you see , you are free , said Palmer . 
I went round to an American lawyer's office this afternoon , and borrowed an old legal form book . 
And I've copied out this form She was hardly conscious of his laying papers on the table before her . 
It's valid , as I've fixed things . 
The lawyer gave me some paper . 
It has a watermark five years old . 
I've dated back two years quite enough . 
So when we've signed , the marriage never could be contested not even by ourselves . 
He took the papers from the table , laid them in her lap . 
What were you saying ? she asked . 
What's this ? What were you thinking about ? said he . 
I wasn't thinking , she answered , with her slow sweet smile of self concealment . 
I was feeling living the past . 
I was watching the procession . 
That's a kind of time wasting that can easily be overdone . 
Still , there's the lesson . 
I have to remind myself of it often always , when there's anything that has to be decided . 
I've written out two of the forms , said he . 
You keep one , I the other . 
Why not sign now ? She read the form the agreement to take each other as lawful husband and wife and to regard the contract as in all respects binding and legal . 
Do you understand it ? laughed he nervously , for her manner was disquieting . 
You stared at the paper as if it were a puzzle . 
It is , said she . 
Come into the library and we'll sign and have it over with . 
She laid the papers on the dressing table , took up her brush , drew it slowly over her hair several times . 
Wake up , cried he , good humoredly . 
Come on into the library . 
And he went to the threshold . 
She continued brushing her hair . 
I can't sign , said she . 
There was the complete absence of emotion that caused her to be misunderstood always by those who did not know her peculiarities . 
Yet she repeated No I can't sign . 
He returned to his chair , seated himself , a slight cloud on his brow , a wicked smile on his lips . 
Now what the devil ! said he gently , a jeer in his quiet voice . 
What's all this about ? I can't marry you , said she . 
I wish to live on as we are . 
But if we do that we can't get up where we want to go . 
I don't wish to know anyone but interesting men of the sort that does things and women of my own sort . 
Those people have no interest in conventionalities . 
That's not the crowd we set out to conquer , said he . 
You seem to have forgotten . 
It's you who have forgotten , replied she . 
Yes yes I know , he hastened to say . 
I wasn't accusing you of breaking your agreement . 
You've lived up to it and more . 
But , Susan , the people you care about don't especially interest me . 
He's a man of the world as well as one of the artistic chaps . 
But the others they're beyond me . 
I admit it's all fine , and I'm glad you go in for it . 
But the only crowd that's congenial to me is the crowd that we've got to be married to get in with . 
She saw his point saw it more clearly than did he . 
To him the world of fashion and luxurious amusement seemed the only world worth while . 
He accepted the scheme of things as he found it , had the conventional ambitions to make in succession the familiar goals of the conventional human success power , wealth , social position . 
It was impossible for him to get any other idea of a successful life , of ambitions worthy a man's labor . 
It was evidence of the excellence of his mind that he was able to tolerate the idea of the possibility of there being another mode of success worth while . 
I'm helping you in your ambitions in doing what you think is worth while , said he . 
Don't you think you owe it to me to help me in mine ? He saw the slight change of expression that told him how deeply he had touched her . 
If I don't go in for the high society game , he went on , I'll have nothing to do . 
I'll be adrift gambling , drinking , yawning about and going to pieces . 
A man's got to have something to work for and he can't work unless it seems to him worth doing . 
She was staring into the mirror , her elbows on the table , her chin upon her interlaced fingers . 
He himself would have said that his weakness was altogether the result of the spell her physical charm cast over him . 
But it is probable that the other element was the stronger . 
You'll not be selfish , Susan ? urged he . 
You'll give me a square deal . 
Yes I see that it does look selfish , said she . 
A little while ago I'd not have been able to see any deeper than the looks of it . 
Freddie , there are some things no one has a right to ask of another , and no one has a right to grant . 
The ugliness of his character was becoming less easy to control . 
This girl whom he had picked up , practically out of the gutter , and had heaped generosities upon , was trying his patience too far . 
But he said , rather amiably Certainly I'm not asking any such thing of you in asking you to become a respectable married woman , the wife of a rich man . 
Yes you are , Freddie , replied she gently . 
When we were discussing my coming with you , you made this same proposal in another form . 
And I refuse it now . 
It's harder to refuse now , but I'm stronger . 
Stronger , thanks to the money you've got from me the money and the rest of it , sneered he . 
Haven't I earned all I've got ? said she , so calmly that he did not realize how the charge of ingratitude , unjust though it was , had struck into her . 
You have changed ! said he . 
You're getting as hard as the rest of us . 
So it's all a matter of money , of give and take is it ? None of the generosity and sentiment you used to be full of ? You've simply been using me . 
It can be put that way , replied she . 
And no doubt you honestly see it that way . 
But I've got to see my own interest and my own right , Freddie . 
I've learned at last that I mustn't trust to anyone else to look after them for me . 
Are you riding for a fall Queenie ? At Queenie she smiled faintly . 
I'm riding the way I always have , answered she . 
It has carried me down . 
But it has brought me up again . 
She looked at him with eyes that appealed , without yielding . 
And I'll ride that way to the end up or down , said she . 
Then you want to break with me ? he asked and he began to look dangerous . 
I want to go on as we are . 
I'll not be interfering in your social ambitions , in any way . 
He had a way of looking at her that gave her and himself the sense of a delirious embrace . 
He looked at her so , now . 
He said You take advantage of my being crazy about you damn you ! Heaven knows , laughed she , I need every advantage I can find . 
He touched her the lightest kind of touch . 
It carried the sense of embrace in his look still more giddily upward . 
Queenie ! he said softly . 
She smiled at him through half closed eyes that with a gentle and shy frankness confessed the secret of his attraction for her . 
There was , however , more of strength than of passion in her face as a whole . 
Said she We're getting on well as we are aren't we ? I can meet the most amusing and interesting people my sort of people . 
You can go with the people and to the places you like and you'll not be bound . 
If you should take a notion to marry some woman with a big position you'd not have to regret being tied to Queenie . 
But I want you I want you , said he . 
I've got to have you . 
As long as you like , said she . 
But on terms I can accept always on terms I can accept . 
Never on any others never ! I can't help it . 
I can yield everything but that . 
Where she was concerned he was the primitive man only . 
The higher his passion rose , the stronger became his desire for absolute possession . 
When she spoke of terms of the limitations upon his possession of her she transformed his passion into fury . 
He eyed her wickedly , abruptly demanded When did you decide to make this kick up ? I don't know . 
Simply when you asked me to sign , I found I couldn't . 
You don't expect me to believe that . 
She resumed brushing her hair . 
Look at me ! She turned her face toward him , met his gaze . 
Haven't I told you I wish to be free ? But that doesn't mean anything . 
It might , said she absently . 
How ? I don't know . 
If one is always free one is ready for whatever comes . 
Anyhow , I must be free no matter what it costs . 
I see you're bent on dropping back into the dirt I picked you out of . 
Even that , she said . 
Haven't you any desire to be respectable decent ? I guess not , confessed she . 
What is there in that direction for me ? A woman doesn't stay young and good looking long . 
But does she get old and ugly any slower for being married ? He rose and stood over her , looked smiling danger down at her . 
She leaned back in her chair to meet his eyes without constraint . 
You're trying to play me a trick , said he . 
But you're not going to get away with the goods . 
I'm astonished that you are so rotten ungrateful . 
Because I'm not for sale ? Queenie balking at selling herself , he jeered . 
And what's the least you ever did sell for ? A half dollar , I think . 
No two drinks of whiskey one cold night . 
But what I sold was no more myself than than the coat I'd pawned and drunk up before I did it . 
The plain calm way in which she said this made it so terrible that he winced and turned away . 
We have seen hell haven't we ? he muttered . 
He turned toward her with genuine passion of feeling . 
Susan , he cried , don't be a fool . 
Let's push our luck , now that things are coming our way . 
We need each other we want to stay together don't we ? I want to stay . 
Then let's put the record straight . 
Let's keep it straight , replied she earnestly . 
Don't ask me to go where I don't belong . 
For I can't , Freddie honestly , I can't . 
He laid his hand gently on her shoulder . 
She looked straight at him . 
Not if you kill me , she said . 
She rose to face him at his own height . 
I've bought my freedom with my body and with my heart and with my soul . 
He measured her strength with an expert eye . 
He knew that he was beaten . 
He laughed lightly and went into his dressing room . 
XXII THEY met the next morning with no sign in the manner of either that there had been a drawn battle , that there was an armed truce . 
She knew that he , like herself , was thinking of nothing else . 
But until he had devised some way of certainly conquering her he would wait , and watch , and pretend that he was satisfied with matters as they were . 
The longer she reflected the less uneasy she became as to immediate danger . 
In Paris the methods of violence he might have been tempted to try in New York were out of the question . 
He had not upon her a single one of the holds a husband has upon a wife . 
True , he could break with her . 
She knew how deeply it would cut , to find himself without his show piece that made him the envied of men and the desired of women . 
She was not afraid that he would break with her . 
Well was he not right ? Love might fail passion might wane conscience , aiding self interest with its usual servility , might overcome the instincts of gratitude . 
But what power could overcome the loyalty resting upon money interest ? No power but that of a longer purse than his . 
As she was not in the mood to make pretenses about herself to herself , she smiled at this cynical self measuring . 
I should not stay on with him if he were distasteful to me . 
And that's more than most women can honestly say . 
Perhaps even I should not stay on if it were not for a silly , weak feeling of obligation but I can't be sure of that . 
She had fifty five thousand francs on deposit at Munroe's all her very own . 
The end with Freddie might be far away . 
But end , she saw , there would be the day when he would somehow get her in his power and so would drive her to leave him . 
For she could not again become a slave . 
Extreme youth , utter inexperience , no knowledge of real freedom these had enabled her to endure in former days . 
But she was wholly different now . 
She could not sink back . 
Steadily she was growing less and less able to take orders from anyone . 
Her building was without solid foundations . 
Her struggle with Freddie was a revelation and a warning . 
One day Brent saw again the look she often could not keep from her face when that vision of the dance hall in the slums was horrifying her . 
He said impulsively What is it ? Tell me what is it , Susan ? It was the first and the last time he ever called her by her only personal name . 
A purpose ! At last a purpose ! laughed he . 
Now you will go to work . 
Through Gourdain she got a French teacher and her first woman friend . 
The young widow he recommended , a Madame Clelie Deliere , was the most attractive woman she had ever known . 
She had all the best French characteristics a good heart , a lively mind , was imaginative yet sensible , had good taste in all things . 
Like most of the attractive French women , she was not beautiful , but had that which is of far greater importance charm . 
Palmer partly by nature , partly through early experience in the polyglot tenement district of New York had more aptitude for language than had Susan . 
But he had been lazy about acquiring French in a city where English is spoken almost universally . 
With the coming of young Madame Deliere to live in the apartment , he became interested . 
Palmer's accent was better than Susan's . 
She could not and felt she never could get the accent of the trans Alleghany region out of her voice and so long as that remained she would not speak good French . 
But don't let that trouble you , said Clelie . 
Your voice is your greatest charm . 
It is so honest and so human . 
Of the Americans I have met , I have liked only those with that same tone in their voices . 
But I haven't that accent , said Freddie with raillery . 
No and I do not like you , retorted she . 
You do not wish to be liked . 
You wish to be feared . 
Her lively brown eyes sparkled and the big white teeth in her generous mouth glistened . 
You wish to be feared and you are feared , Monsieur Freddie . 
It takes a clever woman to know how to flatter with the truth , said he . 
Everybody always has been afraid of me and is except , of course , my wife . 
He was always talking of my wife now . 
The subject so completely possessed his mind that he aired it unconsciously . 
When she was not around he boasted of my wife's skill in the art of dress , of my wife's taste , of my wife's shrewdness in getting her money's worth . 
At first she thought he was doing this deliberately either to annoy her or in pursuance of some secret deep design . 
She was amazed at his display of such a weakness . 
When a strong arrogant man , unbalanced by long and successful self indulgence , hurls himself at an obstruction , either the obstruction yields or the man is destroyed . 
One morning early in February , as she was descending from her auto in front of the apartment house , she saw Brent in the doorway . 
Never had he looked so young or so well . 
She gathered in all , to the smallest detail such as the color of his shirt with a single quick glance . 
She knew that he had seen her before she saw him that he had been observing her . 
Her happiest friendliest smile made her small face bewitching as she advanced with outstretched hand . 
When did you come ? she asked . 
From the Riviera ? No , indeed . 
Moritz and skating and skiing and tobogganing . 
I rather hoped I looked it . 
Doing those things in that air it's being born again . 
I felt well till I saw you , said she . 
Now I feel dingy and half sick . 
He laughed , his glance sweeping her from hat to boots . 
Certainly his eyes could not have found a more entrancing sight . 
She was wearing a beautiful dress of golden brown cloth , sable hat , short coat and muff , brown suede boots laced high upon her long slender calves . 
And when she had descended from the perfect little limousine made to order for her , he had seen a ravishing flutter of lingerie of pale violet silk . 
The sharp air had brought no color to her cheeks to interfere with the abrupt and fascinating contrast of their pallor with the long crimson bow of her mouth . 
But her skin seemed transparent and had the clearness of health itself . 
Everything about her , every least detail , was of Parisian perfection . 
Probably there are not in the world , said he , so many as a dozen women so well put together as you are . 
No , not half a dozen . 
Few women carry the art of dress to the point of genius . 
I see they had only frumps at St . 
Moritz this season , laughed she . 
But he would not be turned aside . 
I've heard of you many times this winter . 
You are the talk of Paris . 
She laughed with frank delight . 
It was indeed a pleasure to discover that her pains had not been in vain . 
It is always the outsider who comes to the great city to show it its own resources , he went on . 
I knew you were going to do this . 
Still happy ? Oh , yes . 
But he had taken her by surprise . 
A faint shadow flitted across her face . 
Not so happy , I see . 
Won't you lunch with us ? We'll have it in about half an hour . 
He accepted promptly and they went up together . 
His glance traveled round the drawing room and she knew he had noted all the changes she had made on better acquaintance with her surroundings and wider knowledge of interior furnishing . 
She saw that he approved , and it increased her good humor . 
Are you hurrying through Paris on your way to somewhere else ? she asked . 
No , I stop here I think until I sail for America . 
And that will be soon ? Perhaps not until July . 
I've finished a play a woman suggested to me some time ago . 
A gleam of understanding came into her eyes . 
There was controlled interest in her voice as she inquired When is it to be produced ? When the woman who suggested it is ready to act in it . 
Do I by any chance know her ? You used to know her . 
You will know her again . 
She shook her head slowly , a pensive smile hovering about her eyes and lips . 
We do not change , said he . 
We move , but we do not change . 
You are the same character you were when you came into the world . 
And what you were then , that you will be when the curtain falls on the climax of your last act . 
Your circumstances will change and your clothes and your face , hair , figure but not you . 
Do you believe that ? I know it . 
She nodded slowly , the violet gray eyes pensive . 
Birds in the strong wind that's what we are . 
Driven this way or that or quite beaten down . 
But the wind doesn't change sparrow to eagle or eagle to gull does it ? She had removed her coat and was seated on an oval lounge gazing into the open fire . 
He was standing before it , looking taller and stronger than ever , in a gray lounging suit . 
A cigarette depended loosely from the corner of his mouth . 
He said abruptly How are you getting on with your acting ? She glanced in surprise . 
He had to talk to somebody about how wonderful you are . 
So he took to writing me two huge letters a week all about you . 
And he's fond of Clelie . 
She's my I know all , he interrupted . 
The tie between them is their fondness for you . 
Tell me about the acting . 
Oh Clelie and I have been going to the theater every few days to help me with French . 
She is mad about acting , and there's nothing I like better . 
Also , you simply have to have occupation . 
I wasn't brought up to fit me for an idler . 
When I was a child I was taught to keep busy not at nothing , but at something . 
Freddie's a lot better at it than I. Naturally , said Brent . 
You had a home , with order and a system an old fashioned American home . 
He well , he hadn't . 
Clelie and I go at our make believe acting quite seriously . 
We have to if we're to fool ourselves that it's an occupation . 
She then said Could I study here in Paris ? Triumph gleamed in his eyes . 
Boudrin a splendid teacher speaks English . 
He and I can teach you . 
Tell me what I'd have to do . 
We would coach you for a small part in some play that's to be produced here . 
In French ? I'll have an American girl written into a farce . 
Enough to get you used to the stage to give you practice in what he'll teach you the trade side of the art . 
And then ? And then we shall spend the summer learning your part in my play . 
Two or three weeks of company rehearsals in New York in September . 
In October your name out over the Long Acre Theater in letters of fire . 
Could that be done ? Even if you had little talent , less intelligence , and no experience . 
Properly taught , the trade part of every art is easy . 
Teachers make it hard partly because they're dull , chiefly because there'd be small money for them if they taught quickly , and only the essentials . 
No , journeyman acting's no harder to learn than bricklaying or carpentering . 
And in America everywhere in the world but a few theaters in Paris and Vienna there is nothing seen but journeyman acting . 
The art is in its infancy as an art . 
It even has not yet been emancipated from the swaddling clothes of declamation . 
Yes , you can do well by the autumn . 
And if you develop what I think you have in you , you can leap with one bound into fame . 
In America or England , mind you because there the acting is all poor to pretty good' . 
You are sure it could be done ? No I don't mean that . 
I mean , is there really a chance any chance for me to make my own living ? A real living ? I guarantee , said Brent . 
She changed from seriousness to a mocking kind of gayety that is , to a seriousness so profound that she would not show it . 
And she said You see I simply must banish my old women and that hunchback and his piano . 
They get on my nerves . 
He smiled humorously at her . 
But behind the smile his gaze grave , sympathetic pierced into her soul , seeking the meaning he knew she would never put into words . 
At the sound of voices in the hall she said We'll talk of this again . 
At lunch that day she , for the first time in many a week , listened without irritation while Freddie poured forth his unending praise of my wife . 
As Brent knew them intimately , Freddie felt free to expatiate upon all the details of domestic economy that chanced to be his theme , with the exquisite lunch as a text . 
Our idealization goes forward haltingly and hypocritically because we try to build from the stars down , instead of from the ground up . 
The place to seek the ideal is in the homely , the commonplace , and the necessary . 
An ideal that does not spring deep rooted from the soil of practical life may be a topic for a sermon or a novel or for idle conversation among silly and pretentious people . 
To him her clever housekeeping offered simply another instance of her cleverness in general . 
His discourse was in bad taste . 
But its bad taste was tolerable because he was interesting food , like sex , being one of those universal subjects that command and hold the attention of all mankind . 
He declared that the cheese which Susan had found in a shop in the Marche St . 
Honore was more wonderful than the most wonderful petit Suisse . 
And the coffee ! he exclaimed . 
But you'll see in a few minutes . 
Quelle histoire ! exclaimed Brent , when Freddie had concluded . 
And he looked at Susan with the ironic , quizzical gleam in his eyes . 
I am learning to live , said she . 
That's what we're on earth for isn't it ? To learn to live and then , to live , replied he . 
Ah , that comes a little later . 
Not much later , rejoined he , or there's no time left for it . 
It was Freddie who , after lunch , urged Susan and Clelie to show Brent what you can do at acting . 
Yes by all means , said Brent with enthusiasm . 
And they gave in one end of the salon which was well suited for it the scene between mother and daughter over the stolen diary , in L'Autre Danger . 
Brent said little when they finished , so little that Palmer was visibly annoyed . 
But Susan , who was acquainted with his modes of expression , felt a deep glow of satisfaction . 
She had no delusions about her attempts she understood perfectly that they were simply crude attempts . 
She knew she had done well for her and she knew he appreciated her improvement . 
That would have gone fine with costumes and scenery eh ? demanded Freddie of Brent . 
Yes , said Brent absently . 
Freddie was dissatisfied with this lack of enthusiasm . 
He went on insistently I think she ought to go on the stage she and Madame Clelie , too . 
Yes , said Brent , between inquiry and reflection . 
What do you think ? I don't think she ought , replied Brent . 
Would you like it ? Susan hesitated . 
Freddie said rather lamely , Of course she would . 
For my part , I wish she would . 
Then I will , said Susan quietly . 
He had not dreamed she would assent . 
He knew her tones knew that the particular tone meant finality . 
You're joking , cried he , with an uneasy laugh . 
Why , you wouldn't stand the work for a week . 
It's hard work isn't it , Brent ? About the hardest , said Brent . 
And she's got practically everything still to learn . 
Shall we try , Clelie ? said Susan . 
Young Madame Deliere was pale with eagerness . 
Ah but that would be worth while ! cried she . 
Then it's settled , said Susan . 
To Brent We'll make the arrangements at once today . 
Freddie was looking at her with a dazed expression . 
His glance presently drifted from her face to the fire , to rest there thoughtfully as he smoked his cigar . 
He took no part in the conversation that followed . 
Presently he left the room without excusing himself . 
When Clelie seated herself at the piano to wander vaguely from one piece of music to another , Brent joined Susan at the fire and said in English Palmer is furious . 
I saw , said she . 
She looked calmly at him . 
Then you do not know him . 
The strangest smile flitted across her face . 
After a pause Brent said Are you married to him ? Again the calm steady look . 
Then That is none of your business . 
I thought you were not , said Brent , as if she had answered his question with a clear negative . 
He added , You know I'd not have asked if it had been none of my business . 
What do you mean ? If you had been his wife , I could not have gone on . 
I've all the reverence for a home of the man who has never had one . 
I'd not take part in a home breaking . 
But since you are free I shall never be anything else but free . 
It's because I wish to make sure of my freedom that I'm going into this . 
Palmer appeared in the doorway . 
That night the four and Gourdain dined together , went to the theater and afterward to supper at the Cafe de Paris . 
Gourdain and young Madame Deliere formed an interesting , unusually attractive exhibit of the parasitism that is as inevitable to the rich as fleas to a dog . 
Gourdain was a superior man , Clelie a superior woman . 
There was nothing of the sycophant , or even of the courtier , about either . 
Yet they already had in their faces that subtle indication of the dependent that is found in all professional people who habitually work for and associate with the rich only . 
They had no sense of dependence they were not dependents , for they gave more than value received . 
Brent looked for signs of the same thing in Susan's face . 
The signs should have been there but they were not . 
Not yet , thought he . 
And never will be now . 
Palmer's abstraction and constraint were in sharp contrast to the gayety of the others . 
Her spirits were soaring so high that she did not dare stimulate them with champagne . 
There is something fantastic about the official temples of Venus the pleasure makers are so serious under their masks and the pleasure getters so quaintly dazzled and deluded . 
Palmer scarcely took his eyes from Susan's face . 
It amused and pleased her to see how uneasy this made Brent and how her own laughter and jests aggravated his uneasiness to the point where he was almost showing it . 
And she wondered whether at any other table there was gathered so curious an assemblage of pasts and presents and futures as at the one over which Freddie Palmer was presiding somberly . 
Then her thoughts took another turn . 
It was the world in miniature it was an illustration of the position of woman of her own position . 
Not the equal of man , but an appetizer , a dessert . 
She glanced at herself in the glass , mocked her own radiant beauty of face and form and dress . 
Not really a full human being merely a decoration . 
No more and no worse off than most of the women everywhere , the favorites licensed or unlicensed of law and religion . 
But just as badly off , and just as insecure . 
Free ! No rest , no full breath until freedom had been won ! At any cost , by straight way or devious free ! Let's go home , said she abruptly . 
I've had enough of this . 
She was in a dressing gown , all ready for bed and reading , when Palmer came into her sitting room . 
She was smoking , her gaze upon her book . 
Her thick dark hair was braided close to her small head . 
There was delicate lace on her nightgown , showing above the wadded satin collar of the dressing gown . 
He dropped heavily into a chair . 
If anyone had told me a year ago that a skirt could make a damn fool of me , said he bitterly , I'd have laughed in his face . 
A skirt and not a clean one , at that . 
She lowered the book to her lap , took the cigarette from between her lips , looked at him . 
Why not be reasonable , Freddie ? said she calmly . 
Language had long since lost its power to impress her . 
Why irritate yourself and annoy me simply because I won't let you tyrannize over me ? You know you can't treat me as if I were your property . 
I'm not your wife , and I don't have to be your mistress . 
Getting ready to break with me eh ? If I wished to go , I'd tell you and go . 
You'd give me the shake , would you ? without the slightest regard for all I've done for you ! She refused to argue that again . 
I hope I've outgrown doing weak gentle things through cowardice and pretending it's through goodness of heart . 
You've gotten hard like stone . 
I'm not a sheltered woman , pursued she . 
I've got no one to save me from the consequences of doing nice , sweet , womanly things . 
You've got me , said he angrily . 
But why lean if I'm strong enough to stand alone ? Why weaken myself just to gratify your mania for owning and bossing ? But let me finish what I was saying . 
I never got any quarter because I was a woman . 
No woman does , as a matter of fact and in the end , the more she uses her sex to help her shirk , the worse her punishment is . 
But in my case I was brought up to play the weak female , to use my sex as my shield . 
Still , I'm not whining . 
Now that it's all over I'm the better for what I've been through . 
I've learned to use all a man's weapons and in addition I've got a woman's . 
As long as your looks last , sneered he . 
That will be longer than yours , said she pleasantly , if you keep on with the automobiles and the champagne . 
And when my looks are gone , my woman's weapons . 
Why , I'll still have the man's weapons left shan't I ? knowledge , and the ability to use it . 
His expression of impotent fury mingled with compelled admiration and respect made his face about as unpleasant to look at as she had ever seen it . 
But she liked to look . 
His confession of her strength made her feel stronger . 
The sense of strength was a new sensation with her new and delicious . 
Nor could the feeling that she was being somewhat cruel restrain her from enjoying it . 
I have never asked quarter , she went on . 
If fate gets me down , as it has many a time , why I'll he able to take my medicine without weeping or whining . 
Isn't that so ? He was silent . 
Isn't it so ? she insisted . 
And his handsome eyes looked the love so near to hate that fills a strong man for a strong woman when they clash and he cannot conquer . 
No wonder I'm a fool about you , he muttered . 
I don't purpose that any man or woman shall use me , she went on , in exchange for merely a few flatteries . 
I insist that if they use me , they must let me use them . 
I shan't be mean about it , but I shan't be altogether a fool , either . 
I don't , replied she . 
I've no sneers for anybody . 
I've discovered a great truth , Freddie the deep down equality of all human beings all of them birds in the same wind and battling with it each as best he can . 
Said he You've used me . 
Now you're going to use Brent eh ? Well what will you give him in exchange ? He wants someone to act certain parts in certain plays . 
Is that all he wants ? He hasn't asked anything else . 
And if he did ? Don't be absurd . 
He's not in love with you , assented Palmer . 
He doesn't want you that way . 
There's some woman somewhere , I've heard and he doesn't care about anybody but her . 
He was speaking in a careless , casual way , watching her out of the corner of his eye . 
And she , taken off guard , betrayed in her features the secret that was a secret even from herself . 
He sprang up with a bound , sprang at her , caught her up out of her chair , the fingers of one hand clasping her throat . 
I thought so ! he hissed . 
Palmer released her , stood panting , with furious eyes on the door from which the sound had come . 
Susan called , It's all right , Clelie , for the present . 
Then she said to Palmer , I told Clelie to knock if she ever heard voices in this room or any sound she didn't understand . 
She reseated herself , began to massage her throat where his fingers had clutched it . 
It's fortunate my skin doesn't mar easily , she went on . 
What were you saying ? I know the truth now . 
That's the milk in the cocoanut . 
She reflected on this , apparently with perfect tranquillity , apparently with no memory of his furious threat against her and against Brent . 
She said Perhaps I was simply piqued because there's another woman . 
I guess I was a little . 
You admit that you love him , you He checked himself on the first hissing breath of the foul epithet . 
She said tranquilly Jealousy doesn't mean love . 
We're jealous in all sorts of ways and of all sorts of things . 
Well he cares nothing about you . 
He'd despise a woman who had been Don't hesitate . 
I'm used to hearing it , Freddie and to being it . 
And not had been' but is . 
I still am , you know . 
You're not ! he cried . 
And never were and never could be for some unknown reason , God knows why . 
She shrugged her shoulders , lit another cigarette . 
He went on You can't get it out of your head that because he's interested in you he's more or less stuck on you . 
That's the way with women . 
The truth is , he wants you merely to act in his plays . 
And I want that , too . 
She chose the only hopeful course she went at him boldly and directly . 
Said she with amused carelessness Why not ? He doesn't want me . 
Even if I love him , I'm not giving him anything you want . 
How do you know what I want ? cried he , confused by this unexpected way of meeting his attack . 
You think I'm simply a brute with no fine instincts or feelings She interrupted him with a laugh . 
Don't be absurd , Freddie , said she . 
You know perfectly well you and I don't call out the finer feelings in each other . 
If either of us wanted that sort of thing , we'd have to look elsewhere . 
You mean Brent eh ? She laughed with convincing derision . 
What nonsense ! She put her arms round his neck , and her lips close to his . 
The violet gray eyes were half closed , the perfume of the smooth amber white skin , of the thick , wavy , dark hair , was in his nostrils . 
She felt that she had ended the frightful danger to Brent rather than to herself that suddenly threatened from those wicked eyes of Palmer's . 
But it might easily come again . 
He was no longer jealous of Brent . 
But while he didn't know what was troubling him , he did know that he was uncomfortable . 
XXIII IN but one important respect was Brent's original plan modified . 
Clelie stayed in London , toiling at the language , determined to be ready to take the small part of French maid in Brent's play in the fall . 
Palmer traveled with them , making a pretense of interest that ill concealed his boredom and irritation . 
He had not spoken of those social ambitions of his since Susan refused to go that way with him but she knew he had them in mind as strongly as ever . 
I'm frightfully depressed , she admitted . 
It's tiresome and hard and so hideously uncomfortable ! And I've lost all sense of art or profession . 
Acting seems to be nothing but a trade , and a poor , cheap one at that . 
He was not surprised , but was much encouraged by this candid account of her state of mind . 
Said he It's my private opinion that only your obstinacy keeps you from giving it up straight off . 
Surely you must see it's nonsense . 
Drop it and come along and be comfortable and happy . 
Why be obstinate ? There's nothing in it . 
Perhaps it is obstinacy , said she . 
I like to think it's something else . 
I want to , but I can't , replied she . 
He recognized the tone , the expression of the eyes , the sudden showing of strength through the soft , young contour . 
Never again could there be comfort , much less happiness , until she had tried out her reawakened ambition . 
She had given up all that had been occupying her since she left America with Freddie she had abandoned herself to a life of toil . 
Certainly nothing could have been more tedious , more tormenting to sensitive nerves , than the schooling through which Brent was putting her . 
Its childishness revolted her and angered her . 
There were days , many of them , when it took all her good sense , all her fundamental faith in Brent , to restrain her from an outbreak . 
Streathern regarded Brent as a crank , and had to call into service all his humility as a poor Englishman toward a rich man to keep from showing his contempt . 
And Brent seemed to be indeed was testing her forbearance to the uttermost . 
He offered not the slightest explanation of his method . 
He simply ordered her blindly to pursue the course he marked out . 
She was sorely tempted to ask , to demand , explanations . 
But there stood out a quality in Brent that made her resolve ooze away , as soon as she faced him . 
Of one thing she was confident . 
Finally there came a performance in which the audience the gallery part of it booed her not the play , not the other players , but her and no other . 
Brent came along , apparently by accident , as she made her exit . 
He halted before her and scanned her countenance with those all seeing eyes of his . 
Said he You heard them ? Of course , replied she . 
That was for you , said he and he said it with an absence of sympathy that made it brutal . 
For only me , said she frivolously . 
You seem not to mind . 
I'm not made of wood or stone . 
Don't you think you'd better give it up ? She looked at him with a steely light from the violet eyes , a light that had never been there before . 
Give up ? said she . 
Not even if you give me up . 
This thing has got to be put through . 
All right , he said . 
That booing it almost struck me dead . 
When it didn't , I for the first time felt sure I was going to win . 
He nodded again , gave her one of his quick expressive , fleeting glances that somehow made her forget and forgive everything and feel fresh and eager to start in again . 
He said When the booing began and you didn't break down and run off the stage , I knew that what I hoped and believed about you was true . 
His large , soft eyes were full of sympathetic tears . 
He was so moved that he braved Brent . 
He said to Susan It wasn't your fault , Miss Lenox . 
You were doing exactly as Mr. Brent ordered , when the booing broke out . 
Streathern regarded him with a certain nervousness and veiled pity . 
Streathern had been brought into contact with many great men . 
He had found them , each and every one , with this same streak of wild folly , this habit of doing things that were to him obviously useless and ridiculous . 
It was a profound mystery to him why such men succeeded while he himself who never did such things remained in obscurity . 
The only explanation was the abysmal stupidity , ignorance , and folly of the masses of mankind . 
Streathern could not now close his mouth upon one last appeal on behalf of the clever and lovely and so amiable victim of Brent's mania . 
In her fifth week she began to improve . 
She felt at home on the stage she felt at home in her part , whatever it happened to be . 
She was giving what could really be called a performance . 
Streathern , when he was sure Brent could not hear , congratulated her . 
Why , don't you see that it's because of what he's been doing ? I felt it , all the time . 
Oh , really do you think so ? said Streathern . 
His tone made it a polite and extremely discreet way of telling her he thought she had become as mad as Brent . 
She did not try to explain to him why she was improving . 
In that week she advanced by long strides , and Brent was radiant . 
Now we'll teach you scales , said he . 
We'll teach you the mechanics of expressing every variety of emotion . 
Then we'll be ready to study a strong part . 
But she did not appreciate how profoundly right he was until she was learning scales . 
Then she understood why most so called professional performances are amateurish , haphazard , without any precision . 
She was learning to posture , and to utter every emotion so accurately that any spectator would recognize it at once . 
And in time your voice and your body , said Brent , will become as much your servants as are Paderewski's ten fingers . 
He doesn't rely upon any such rot as inspiration . 
Nor does any master of any art . 
A mind can be inspired but not a body . 
You must first have a perfect instrument . 
Then , if you are a genius , your genius , having a perfect instrument to work with , will produce perfect results . 
To ignore or to neglect the mechanics of an art is to hamper or to kill inspiration . 
Geniuses a few and they not the greatest have been too lazy to train their instruments . 
But anyone who is merely talented dares not take the risk . 
And you we'd better assume are merely talented . 
Streathern , who had a deserved reputation as a coach , was disgusted with Brent's degradation of an art . 
As openly as he dared , he warned Susan against the danger of becoming a mere machine a puppet , responding stiffly to the pulling of strings . 
But Susan had got over her momentary irritation against Brent , her doubt of his judgment in her particular case . 
She ignored Streathern's advice that she should be natural , that she should let her own temperament dictate variations on his cut and dried formulae for expression . 
She continued to do as she was bid . 
If you are not a natural born actress , said Brent , at least you will be a good one so good that most critics will call you great . 
You'll ruin her health , protested Freddie . 
You're making her work like a ditch digger . 
Brent replied , If she hasn't the health , she's got to abandon the career . 
If she has health , this training will give it steadiness and solidity . 
If there's a weakness anywhere , it'll show itself and can be remedied . 
And he piled the work on her , dictated her hours of sleep , her hours for rest and for walking , her diet and little he gave her to eat . 
When he had her thoroughly broken to his regimen , he announced that business compelled his going immediately to America . 
I shall be back in a month , said he . 
I think I'll run over with you , said Palmer . 
Do you mind , Susan ? Clelie and I shall get on very well , she replied . 
She would be glad to have both out of the way that she might give her whole mind to the only thing that now interested her . 
Yes come along , said Brent to Palmer . 
Here you'll be tempting her to break the rules . 
He added , Not that you would succeed . 
She understands what it all means , now and nothing could stop her . 
That's why I feel free to leave her . 
Yes , I understand , said Susan . 
She was gazing away into space at sight of her expression Freddie turned hastily away . 
Susan was thinking of Brent's last words She had said , I'll try to deserve all the pains you've taken , Mr. Brent . 
Yes , I have done a lot for you , he had replied . 
I've put you beyond the reach of any of the calamities of life beyond the need of any of its consolations . 
Don't forget that if the steamer goes down with all on board . 
And Brent had returned her look with his usual quizzical smile but she had learned how to see through that mask . 
Then she had submitted to Freddie's energetic embrace had given her hand to Brent Good by , she had said and Good luck , he . 
Beyond the reach of any of the calamities ? Beyond the need of any of the consolations ? Yes it was almost literally true . 
She felt the big interest the career growing up within her , and expanding , and already overstepping all other interests and emotions . 
Brent had left her and Clelie more to do than could be done thus they had no time to bother either about the absent or about themselves . 
This even awakened her several times in the night made her leap from sleep into acute and painful consciousness as if she had recalled and instantly forgotten some startling and terrible thing . 
For it rather seemed a sort of relief , as from a heavy burden of anxiety . 
Why didn't you wait and come with Brent ? asked she . 
Couldn't stand it , replied he . 
I've grown clear away from New York at least from the only New York I know . 
I don't like the boys any more . 
And I know if I stayed on a few days they'd begin to suspect . 
No , it isn't Europe . 
You're responsible for the change in me . 
He was speaking entirely of the internal change , which indeed was great . 
She could not think of the internal change he spoke of for noting the external change . 
He had grown at least fifty pounds heavier than he had been when they came abroad . 
But it made of him a different man in Susan's eyes a man who now seemed almost a stranger to her . 
Yes , you have changed , replied she absently . 
And she went and examined herself in a mirror . 
You , too , said Freddie . 
You don't look older as I do . 
But there's a a I can't describe it . 
Susan could not see it . 
I'm just the same , she insisted . 
You can't judge about yourself . 
But all this excitement and studying and thinking and God knows what You're not at all the woman I came abroad with . 
The subject seemed to be making both uncomfortable they dropped it . 
Susan had sought this other measure , and had found it . 
It was not physical repulsion it was not a sense of immorality . 
It was a kind of shyness , a feeling of violated modesty . 
She felt herself blushing if he came into the room when she was dressing . 
As soon as she awakened in the morning she sprang from bed beside him and hastened into her dressing room and closed the door , resisting an impulse to lock it . 
Apparently the feeling of physical modesty which she had thought dead , killed to the last root , was not dead , was once more stirring toward life . 
What are you blushing about ? asked he , when she , passing through the bedroom , came suddenly upon him , very scantily dressed . 
She laughed confusedly and beat a hurried retreat . 
Shut off that water and listen . 
She shut off the water , but instead of listening , she said , nervous but determined Please close the door . 
Listen , I tell you , he cried , and she now noticed that his voice was curiously , arrestingly , shrill . 
Brent has been hurt badly hurt . 
She thrust her arms into her bathrobe , flung wide the partly open door . 
He was standing there , a newspaper in his trembling hand . 
This is a dispatch from New York dated yesterday , he began . 
The thieves made their escape . 
The police have several clues . 
Mr. Brent is hovering between life and death , with the chances against him . 
When she came to , she was lying in the bed about it or near it were Palmer , her maid , his valet , Clelie , several strangers . 
Her glance turned to Freddie's face and she looked into his eyes amid a profound silence . 
She saw in those eyes only intense anxiety and intense affection . 
He said What is it , dear ? You are all right . 
Was that true ? she asked . 
Yes , but he'll pull through . 
The surgeons save everybody nowadays . 
I've cabled his secretary , Garvey , and to my lawyers . 
We'll have an answer soon . 
I've sent out for all the papers . 
She must not be agitated , interposed a medical looking man with stupid brown eyes and a thin brown beard sparsely veiling his gaunt and pasty face . 
Nonsense ! said Palmer , curtly . 
My wife is not an invalid . 
Our closest friend has been almost killed . 
To keep the news from her would be to make her sick . 
Thank you , she murmured . 
Send them all away except Clelie . 
Leave me alone with Clelie . 
Pushing the others before him , Freddie moved toward the door into the hall . 
At the threshold he paused to say Shall I bring the papers when they come ? She hesitated . 
No , she answered without opening her eyes . 
I want to read them , myself . 
She lay quiet , Clelie stroking her brow . 
From time to time a shudder passed over her . 
When , in answer to a knock , Clelie took in the bundle of newspapers , she sat up in bed and read the meager dispatches . 
The long accounts were made long by the addition of facts about Brent's life . 
The short accounts added nothing to what she already knew . 
When she had read all , she sank back among the pillows and closed her eyes . 
A long , long silence in the room . 
Then a soft knock at the door . 
Clelie left the bedside to answer it , returned to say Mr. Freddie wishes to come in with a telegram . 
Her eyes were wide and staring a look of horror . 
No no ! she cried . 
Then she compressed her lips , passed her hand slowly over her brow . 
Yes tell him to come in . 
Her gaze was upon the door until it opened , leaped to his face , to his eyes , the instant he appeared . 
He was smiling hopefully , but not gayly . 
Garvey says and he read from a slip of paper in his hand None of the wounds necessarily mortal . 
Doctors refuse to commit themselves , but I believe he has a good chance . 
He extended the cablegram that she might read for herself , and said , He'll win , my dear . 
He has luck , and lucky people always win in big things . 
Her gaze did not leave his face . 
One would have said that she had not heard , that she was still seeking what she had admitted him to learn . 
He sat down where Clelie had been , and said There's only one thing for us to do , and that is to go over at once . 
A baffled , puzzled expression was upon her deathly pale face . 
We can sail on the Mauretania Saturday , continued he . 
I've telephoned and there are good rooms . 
She turned her face away . 
Don't you feel equal to going ? As you say , we must . 
The trip can't do you any harm . 
His forced composure abruptly vanished and he cried out hysterically Good God ! It's incredible . 
Then he got himself in hand again , and went on No wonder it bowled you out . 
I had my anxiety about you to break the shock . 
But you How do you feel now ? I'm going to dress . 
I'll send you in some brandy . 
He bent and kissed her . 
A shudder convulsed her a shudder visible even through the covers . 
But he seemed not to note it , and went on I didn't realize how fond I was of Brent until I saw that thing in the paper . 
I almost fainted , myself . 
I gave Clelie a horrible scare . 
I thought you were having an attack , said Clelie . 
My husband looked exactly as you did when he died that way . 
Susan's strange eyes were gazing intently at him the searching , baffled , persistently seeking look . 
She closed them as he turned from the bed . 
When she and Clelie were alone and she was dressing , she said Freddie gave you a scare ? I was at breakfast , replied Clelie , was pouring my coffee . 
He came into the room in his bathrobe took up the papers from the table opened to the foreign news as he always does . 
I happened to be looking at him Clelie flushed he is very handsome in that robe and all at once he dropped the paper grew white staggered and fell into a chair . 
Susan , seated at her dressing table , was staring absently out of the window . 
She shook her head impatiently , drew a long breath , went on with her toilet . 
XXIV A FEW minutes before the dinner hour she came into the drawing room . 
Palmer stood with his back to the blaze , moodily smoking a cigarette . 
That evening his now almost huge form looked more degenerated than usual by the fat of high living and much automobiling . 
His fleshy face , handsome still and of a refined type , bore the traces of anxious sorrow . 
Clelie , sitting at the corner of the fireplace and absently turning the leaves of an illustrated French magazine , had in her own way an air as funereal as Freddie's . 
As Susan entered , they glanced at her . 
Palmer uttered and half suppressed an ejaculation of amazement . 
Susan was dressed as for opera or ball one of her best evening dresses , the greatest care in arranging her hair and the details of her toilette . 
Never had she been more beautiful . 
At a glance one sees that they are not of the eaters , drinkers , sleepers , and seekers after the shallow easy pleasures money provides ready made . 
They shine by their own light the rest of mankind shines either by light reflected from them or not at all . 
Beneath the calm of her surface expression lay something widely different . 
Her face , slim and therefore almost beyond the reach of the attacks of time and worry , was of the type to which a haggard expression is becoming . 
Her eyes , large and dreamy , seemed to be seeing visions of unutterable sadness , and the scarlet streak of her mouth seemed to emphasize their pathos . 
She looked young , very young yet there was also upon her features the stamp of experience , the experience of suffering . 
She did not notice the two by the fire , but went to the piano at the far end of the room and stood gazing out into the lovely twilight of the garden . 
Freddie , who saw only the costume , said in an undertone to Clelie , What sort of freak is this ? Said Madame Deliere An uncle of mine lost his wife . 
They were young and he loved her to distraction . 
Between her death and the funeral he scandalized everybody by talking incessantly of the most trivial details the cards , the mourning , the flowers , his own clothes . 
But the night of the funeral he killed himself . 
Palmer winced as if Clelie had struck him . 
Then an expression of terror , of fear , came into his eyes . 
You don't think she'd do that ? he muttered hoarsely . 
Certainly not , replied the young Frenchwoman . 
I was simply trying to explain her . 
She dressed because she was unconscious of what she was doing . 
Real sorrow doesn't think about appearances . 
Then with quick tact she added Why should she kill herself ? Monsieur Brent is getting well . 
Also , while she's a devoted friend of his , she doesn't love him , but you . 
I'm all upset , said Palmer , in confused apology . 
He gazed fixedly at Susan a straight , slim figure with the carriage and the poise of head that indicate self confidence and pride . 
As he gazed Madame Clelie watched him with fascinated eyes . 
It was both thrilling and terrifying to see such love as he was revealing a love more dangerous than hate . 
Palmer noted that he was observed , abruptly turned to face the fire . 
A servant opened the doors into the dining room , Madame Deliere rose . 
Come , Susan , said she . 
Susan looked at her with unseeing eyes . 
I do not care for dinner , said Susan , seating herself at the piano . 
Oh , but you Let her alone , said Freddie , curtly . 
You and I will go in . 
Susan , alone , dropped listless hands into her lap . 
How long she sat there motionless and with mind a blank she did not know . 
She was aroused by a sound in the hall in the direction of the outer door of their apartment . 
She started up , instantly all alive and alert , and glided swiftly in the direction of the sound . 
A servant met her at the threshold . 
He had a cablegram on a tray . 
For Mr. Palmer , said he . 
But she , not hearing , took the envelope and tore it open . 
At a sweep her eyes took in the unevenly typewritten words Brent died at half past two this afternoon . 
She gazed wonderingly at the servant , reread the cablegram . 
The servant said Shall I take it to Mr. Palmer , ma'am ? No. That is all , thanks , replied she . 
And she walked slowly across the room to the fire . 
She shivered , adjusted one of the shoulder straps of her low cut pale green dress . 
She read the cablegram a third time , laid it gently , thoughtfully , upon the mantel . 
Brent died at half past two this afternoon . 
Yes , there was no mistaking the meaning of those words . 
She knew that the message was true . 
But she did not feel it . 
She was seeing Brent as he had been when they said good by . 
Brent died at half past two this afternoon . 
Except in the great crises we all act with a certain theatricalism , do the thing books and plays and the example of others have taught us to do . 
But in the great crises we do as we feel . 
Susan knew that Brent was dead . 
If he had meant less to her , she would have shrieked or fainted or burst into wild sobs . 
But not when he was her whole future . 
She knew he was dead , but she did not believe it . 
So she stood staring at the flames , and wondering why , when she knew such a frightful thing , she should remain calm . 
When she had heard that he was injured , she had felt , now she did not feel at all . 
Her body , her brain , went serenely on in their routine . 
The part of her that was her very self had it died , and not Brent ? She turned her back to the fire , gazed toward the opposite wall . 
In a mirror there she saw the reflection of Palmer , at table in the adjoining room . 
A servant was holding a dish at his left and he was helping himself . 
She observed his every motion , observed his fattened body , his round and large face , the forming roll of fat at the back of his neck . 
All at once she grew cold cold as she had not been since the night she and Etta Brashear walked the streets of Cincinnati . 
The ache of this cold , like the cold of death , was an agony . 
She shook from head to foot . 
She turned toward the mantel again , looked at the cablegram . 
But she did not take it in her hands . 
She could see in the air , before her eyes in clear , sharp lettering Brent died at half past two this afternoon . 
The sensation of cold faded into a sensation of approaching numbness . 
She went into the hall to her own rooms . 
In the dressing room her maid , Clemence , was putting away the afternoon things she had taken off . 
She stood at the dressing table , unclasping the string of pearls . 
She said to Clemence tranquilly Please pack in the small trunk with the broad stripes three of my plainest street dresses some underclothes the things for a journey only necessaries . 
Some very warm things , please , Clemence , I've suffered from cold , and I can't bear the idea of it . 
And please telephone to the to the Cecil for a room and bath . 
When you have finished I shall pay you what I owe and a month's wages extra . 
I cannot afford to keep you any longer . 
But , madame Clemence fluttered in agitation Madame promised to take me to America . 
Telephone for the rooms for Miss Susan Lenox , said Susan . 
She was rapidly taking off her dress . 
If I took you to America I should have to let you go as soon as we landed . 
But , madame Clemence advanced to assist her . 
Please pack the trunk , said Susan . 
I am leaving here at once . 
I prefer to go to America , even if madame Very well . 
But you understand ? Perfectly , madame A sound of hurrying footsteps and Palmer was at the threshold . 
His eyes were wild , his face distorted . 
Go ! he said harshly to the maid and he stood fretting the knob until she hastened out and gave him the chance to close the door . 
Susan , calm and apparently unconscious of his presence , went on with her rapid change of costume . 
He lit a cigarette with fingers trembling , dropped heavily into a chair near the door . 
She , seated on the floor , was putting on boots . 
When she had finished one and was beginning on the other he said stolidly You think I did it not a question but an assertion . 
I know it , replied she . 
She was so seated that he was seeing her in profile . 
Yes I did , he went on . 
He settled himself more deeply in the chair , crossed his leg . 
And I am glad that I did . 
She kept on at lacing the boot . 
There was nothing in her expression to indicate emotion , or even that she heard . 
I did it , continued he , because I had the right . 
He knew me knew what to expect . 
I suppose he decided that you were worth taking the risk . 
It's strange what fools men all men we men are about women . 
Yes , he knew it . 
She stopped lacing the boot , turned so that she could look at him . 
Do you remember his talking about me one day ? he went on , meeting her gaze naturally . 
He said I was a survival of the Middle Ages had a medieval Italian mind said I would do anything to gain my end and would have a clear conscience about it . 
Do you remember ? Yes . 
But you don't see why I had the right to kill him ? A shiver passed over her . 
She turned away again , began again to lace the boot but now her fingers were uncertain . 
I'll explain , pursued he . 
You and I were getting along fine . 
He had had his chance with you and had lost it . 
Well , he comes over here looks us up puts himself between you and me proceeds to take you away from me . 
Not in a square manly way but under the pretense of giving you a career . 
He made you restless dissatisfied . 
He got you away from me . 
Isn't that so ? She was sitting motionless now . 
Palmer went on in the same harsh , jerky way Now , nobody in the world not even you knew me better than Brent did . 
He knew what to expect if I caught on to what was doing . 
And I guess he knew I would be pretty sure to catch on . 
He never said a word to me that you couldn't have heard , said Susan . 
Of course not , retorted Palmer . 
It don't matter whether he wanted you for himself or for his plays . 
The point is that he took you away from me he , my friend and did it by stealth . 
He offered me a chance for a career that was all , said she . 
He never asked for my love or showed any interest in it . 
He laughed his old time , gentle , sweet , wicked laugh . 
He said Well it'd have been better for him if you hadn't . 
All it did for him was to cost him his life . 
Don't say that ! she cried passionately so passionately that her whole body shook . 
Do you suppose I don't know it ? I know that I killed him . 
But I don't feel that he's dead . 
If I did , I'd not be able to live . 
But I can't ! I can't ! For me he is as much alive as ever . 
Try to think that if it pleases you , sneered Palmer . 
The fact remains that it was you who killed him . 
Yes , she said , I killed him . 
And that's why I hate you , Palmer went on , calm and deliberate except his eyes they were terrible . 
A few minutes ago when I was exulting that he would probably die just then I found that opened cable on the mantel . 
Do you know what it did to me ? It made me hate you . 
When I read it Freddie puffed at his cigarette in silence . 
She dropped weakly to the chair at the dressing table . 
Curse it ! he burst out . 
Yes , I was crazy about him and am still . 
I'm glad I killed him . 
I had to do it . 
He owed me his life . 
But that doesn't make me forgive you . 
Her fingers wandered among the articles spread upon the dressing table . 
He said You're getting ready to leave ? I'm going to a hotel at once . 
But I'm done with you . 
He rose , bent upon her his wicked glance , sneering and cruel . 
You never want to see me again . 
No more do I ever want to see you again . 
I wish to God I never had seen you . 
You cost me the only friend I ever had that I cared about . 
If she doesn't love him , he destroys himself . 
Susan covered her face with her bare arms and sank down at the dressing table . 
For pity's sake , she cried brokenly , spare me spare me ! He seized her roughly by the shoulder . 
Just flesh ! he said . 
Beautiful flesh but just female . 
And look what a fool you've made of me and the best man in the world dead over yonder ! Spare you ? Oh , you'll pull through all right . 
You'll pull through everything and anything and come out stronger and better looking and better off . 
Spare you ! Hell ! I'd have killed you instead of him if I'd known I was going to hate you after I'd done the other thing . 
I'd do it yet you dirty skirt ! He jerked her unresisting form to its feet , gazed at her like an insane fiend . 
With a sob he seized her in his arms , crushed her against his breast , sunk his fingers deep into her hair , kissed it , grinding his teeth as he kissed . 
I hate you , damn you and I love you ! He flung her back into the chair out of his life . 
You'll never see me again ! And he fled from the room from the house . 
XXV THE big ship issued from the Mersey into ugly waters into the weather that at all seasons haunts and curses the coasts of Northern Europe . 
On the fifth day her mind , crutched by her resuming body , took up again its normal routine . 
She began to dress herself , to eat , to exercise the mechanical things first , as always then to think . 
No doubt that grief was awaiting her at the other shores no doubt there she would feel that Brent was gone . 
But she would be better able to bear the discovery . 
The body can be accustomed to the deadliest poisons , so that they become harmless even useful even a necessary aid to life . 
In the same way the mind can grow accustomed to the cruelest calamities , tolerate them , use them to attain a strength and power the hot housed soul never gets . 
Otherwise the return would mean death or insanity or lifelong affliction with radical weakness . 
And Susan was again her calm , sweet self , as the violet gray eyes gazing pensively from the small , strongly featured face plainly showed . 
Herself again , with the wound deepest if not cruelest of her many wounds covered and with its poison under control . 
As the ship cleared Quarantine Susan stood on the main deck well forward , with Madame Clelie beside her . 
And up within her , defying all rebuke , surged the hope that cannot die in strong souls living in healthy bodies . 
Then she said to herself , But no one need apologize for being alive and for hoping . 
I must try to justify him for all he did for me . 
A few miles of beautiful water highway between circling shores of green , and afar off through the mist Madame Clelie's fascinated eyes beheld a city of enchantment . 
It appeared and disappeared , reappeared only to disappear again , as its veil of azure mist was blown into thick or thin folds by the light breeze . 
One moment the Frenchwoman would think there was nothing ahead but more and ever more of the bay glittering in the summer sunlight . 
She , too , was gazing spellbound . 
Her beloved City of the Sun . 
But it is beautiful beautiful beyond belief . 
And I have always heard that New York was ugly . 
It is beautiful and ugly both beyond belief ! replied Susan . 
No wonder you love it ! Yes I love it . 
I have loved it from the first moment I saw it . 
I've never stopped loving it not even She did not finish her sentence but gazed dreamily at the city appearing and disappearing in its veils of thin , luminous mist . 
Her thoughts traveled again the journey of her life in New York . 
But you will be happy again dear said Clelie , tenderly pressing her arm . 
A faint sad smile sad but still a smile made Susan's beautiful face lovely . 
Yes , I shall be happy not in those ways but happy , for I shall be busy . 
No , I don't take the tragic view of life not at all . 
And as I've known misery , I don't try to hold to it . 
Leave that , said Clelie , to those who have known only the comfortable make believe miseries that rustle in crepe and shed tears whenever there's anyone by to see . 
Like the beggars who begin to whine and exhibit their aggravated sores as soon as a possible giver comes into view , said Susan . 
I've learned to accept what comes , and to try to make the best of it , whatever it is . 
But have I ? Does one ever change ? I guess I was born that sort of philosopher . 
Then you were born lucky , sighed Clelie , who was of those who must lean if they would not fall and lie where they fell . 
Susan gave a curious little laugh with no mirth , with a great deal of mockery . 
Do you know , I never thought so before , but I believe you're right , said she . 
Again she laughed in that queer way . 
If you knew my life you'd think I was joking . 
The fact that I've survived and am what I am proves I was born lucky . 
Her tone changed , her expression became unreadable . 
If it's lucky to be born able to live . 
Brent ! If it were he leaning beside her if he and she were coming up the bay toward the City of the Sun ! A billow of heartsick desolation surged over her . 
And always to be alone . 
Garvey came aboard when the gangway was run out . 
He was in black wherever black could be displayed . 
But the grief shadowing his large , simple countenance had the stamp of the genuine . 
And it was genuine , of the most approved enervating kind . 
He had done nothing but grieve since his master's death had left unattended all the matters the man he loved and grieved for would have wished put in order . 
But Susan gazed at him steadily in her eyes there were no tears , but a look that made Garvey choke back sobs and bend his head to hide his expression . 
What he saw or felt behind her calmness filled him with awe , with a kind of terror . 
But he did not recognize what he saw as grief it did not resemble any grief he had felt or had heard about . 
He made a will just before he died , he said to Susan . 
He left everything to you . 
Then she had not been mistaken . 
He had loved her , even as she loved him . 
She turned and walked quickly from them . 
She hastened into her cabin , closed the door and flung herself across the bed . 
And for the first time she gave way . 
In that storm her soul was like a little land bird in the clutch of a sea hurricane . 
She did not understand herself . 
Clelie came , opened the door , glanced in , closed it . 
An hour passed an hour and a half . 
Then Susan appeared on deck amber white pallor , calm , beautiful , the fashionable woman in traveling dress . 
I never before saw you with your lips not rouged ! exclaimed Clelie . 
You will never see them rouged again , said Susan . 
But it makes you look older . 
Not so old as I am , replied she . 
And she busied herself about the details of the landing and the customs , waving aside Garvey and his eager urgings that she sit quietly and leave everything to him . 
It seemed abrupt to Garvey it sounded brutal . 
Off his guard , he showed in flooding color and staring eye how profoundly it shocked him . 
Susan saw , but she did not explain she was not keeping accounts in emotion with the world . 
After a long pause he said in a tone that contained as much of rebuke as so mild a dependent dared express He left about thirty thousand a year , Miss Lenox . 
The exultant light that leaped to Susan's eye horrified him . 
It even disturbed Clelie , though she better understood Susan's nature and was not nearly so reverent as Garvey of the hypocrisies of conventionality . 
But Susan had long since lost the last trace of awe of the opinion of others . 
She was not seeking to convey an impression of grief . 
Grief was too real to her . 
She would as soon have burst out with voluble confession of the secret of her love for Brent . 
She saw what Garvey was thinking but she was not concerned . 
She continued to be herself natural and simple . 
But now at once free ! The heavy shackles had been stricken off at a blow . 
Free to live the life worth while the life of leisure to work , instead of slaving to make leisure and luxury and comfort for others . 
Free to achieve something beside food , clothing , and shelter . 
Free to live as she pleased , instead of for the pleasure of a master or masters . 
Free free free ! The ecstasy of it surged up in her , for the moment possessing her and submerging even thought of how she had been freed . 
She who had never acquired the habit of hypocrisy frankly exulted in countenance exultant beyond laughter . 
She could conceal her feelings , could refrain from expressing . 
But if she expressed at all , it must be her true self what she honestly felt . 
Garvey hung his head in shame . 
He would not have believed Susan could be so unfeeling . 
He would not let his eyes see the painful sight . 
He would try to forget , would deny to himself that he had seen . 
Free ! She tried to summon the haunting vision of the old women with the tin cups of whisky reeling and staggering in time to the hunchback's playing . 
As a menace , as a prophecy , the old women and the hunchback and the strumming piano had gone forever . 
That you'd go on go on with the plays with the acting . 
The violet eyes expressed wonder . 
He was disconcerted by her smile . 
She made no other answer aloud . 
For his sake ! For her own sake , rather . 
What other life had she but the life he had given her ? And he knew I would , she said to herself . 
He said that merely to let me know he left me entirely free . 
How like him , to do that ! At the hotel she shut herself in she saw no one , not even Clelie , for nearly a week . 
Then she went to work and worked like a reincarnation of Brent . 
She played with success half a dozen of the already produced Brent plays . 
At the beginning of her second season she appeared in what has become her most famous part Roxy in Brent's last play , The Scandal . 
With the opening night her career of triumph began . 
She was worthy of the great character Brent had created the wayward , many sided , ever gay Roxy Grandon . 
I've been ashamed of that fact , she went on . 
It has made me ashamed to be alive in the bottom of my heart . 
Even stronger than my shame about it has been my shame that I could be so small as to feel ashamed of it . 
Now tonight she was still in her dressing room . 
As she paused they heard the faint faraway thunders of the applause of the lingering audience Listen ! she cried . 
I am ashamed no longer . 
Sperry , Ich bin ein Ich ! I should say , laughed he . 
All you have to say is Susan Lenox' and you answer all questions . 
At last I'm proud of it , she went on . 
I am proud of her , and she would be proud of me . 
So see that it's done , Sperry . 
He took her hand and kissed it . 
She laughed , patted him on the shoulder , kissed him on both cheeks in friendly , sisterly fashion . 
He had just gone when a card was brought to her Dr . 
Robert Stevens with Sutherland , Indiana , penciled underneath . 
Instantly she remembered , and had him brought to her the man who had rescued her from death at her birth . 
He proved to be a quiet , elderly gentleman , subdued and aged beyond his fifty five years by the monotonous life of the drowsy old town . 
He approached with a manner of embarrassed respect and deference , stammering old fashioned compliments . 
But Susan was the simple , unaffected girl again , so natural that he soon felt as much at ease as with one of his patients in Sutherland . 
She took him away in her car to her apartment for supper with her and Clelie , who was in the company , and Sperry . 
She kept him hour after hour , questioning him about everyone and everything in the old town , drawing him out , insisting upon more and more details . 
The morning papers were brought and they read the accounts of play and author and players . 
For once there was not a dissent all the critics agreed that it was a great performance of a great play . 
After the reading there fell silence . 
Susan , her pallid face and her luminous , inquiring violet eyes inscrutable , sat gazing into vacancy . 
At last Doctor Stevens moved uneasily and rose to go . 
Susan roused herself , accompanied him to the adjoining room . 
I've told you about everybody . 
But you've told me nothing about the most interesting Sutherlander of all yourself . 
And he saw the wound hidden from all the world the wound she hid from herself as much of the time as she could . 
He , the doctor , the professional confessor , had seen such wounds often in all the world there is hardly a heart without one . 
He said Since sorrow is the common lot , I wonder that men can be so selfish or so unthinking as not to help each other in every way to its consolations . 
Poor creatures that we are wandering in the dark , fighting desperately , not knowing friend from foe ! But I am glad that you saved me , said she . 
You have the consolations success fame honor . 
There is no consolation , replied she in her grave sweet way . 
I shall spend my life in flying from myself . 
After a pause she went on I shall never speak to anyone as I have spoken to you . 
I had the best the man who could have given me all a woman seeks from a man love , companionship , sympathy , the shelter of strong arms . 
Then she added Usually life is almost tasteless to me . 
Again for an hour or two it is a little less so until I remember what I have lost . 
Then the taste is very bitter very bitter . 
She is a famous actress , reputed great . 
Some day she will be indeed great when she has the stage experience and the years . 
Except for Clelie , she is alone . 
Not that there have been no friendships in her life . 
There have even been passions . 
With men and women of her vigor and vitality , passion is inevitable . 
She has the reputation of caring for nothing but her art and for the great establishment for orphans up the Hudson , into which about all her earnings go . 
The establishment is named for Brent and is dedicated to her mother . 
Is she happy ? I do not know . 
I do not think she knows . 
Probably she is as long as she can avoid pausing to think whether she is or not . 
She is still young she looked even younger than she is . 
Her dress had the same exquisite quality that made her the talk of Paris in the days of her sojourn there . 
But it is not her dress that most interests me , nor the luxury and perfection of all her surroundings . 
It is not even her beauty that is , the whole of her beauty . 
Everything and every being that is individual in appearance has some one quality , trait , characteristic , which stands out above all the rest to make a climax of interest and charm . 
With the rose it is its perfume with the bird , perhaps the scarlet or snowy feathers upon its breast . 
Among human beings who have the rare divine dower of clear individuality the crown and cap of distinction differs . 
No , it is in her mouth sensitive , strong yet gentle , suggestive of all the passion and suffering and striving that have built up her life . 
Her mouth the curve of it I think it is , that sends from time to time the mysterious thrill through her audiences . 
I halted and watched the graceful movements with which she took her seat and gathered the robes about her . 
And then I noted her profile , by the light of the big lamps guarding her door . 
You know that profile ? You have seen its same expression in every profile of successful man or woman who ever lived . 
Yes , she may be happy doubtless is more happy than unhappy . 
But I do not envy her or any other of the sons and daughters of men who is blessed and cursed with imagination . 
Ruth's parents are dead she is married to Sam Wright . 
He lost his father's money in wheat speculation in Chicago in one of the most successful of the plutocracy's constantly recurring raids upon the hoardings of the middle class . 
Ruth has children and she is happier in them than she realizes or than her discontented face and voice suggest . 
Etta is fat and contented , the mother of many , and fond of her fat , fussy August , the rich brewer . 
John Redmond a congressman , a possession of the Beef Trust , I believe but not so highly prized a possession as was his abler father . 
Freddie ? I saw him a year ago at the races at Auteuil . 
He is huge and loose and coarse , is in the way soon to die of Bright's disease , I suspect . 
There was a woman with him very pretty , very chic . 
I saw no other woman similarly placed whose eyes held so assiduously , and without ever a wandering flutter , to the face of the man who was paying . 
But Freddie never noticed her . 
He chewed savagely at his cigar , looking about the while for things to grumble at or to curse . 
Rod ? He is still writing indifferent plays with varying success . 
He long since wearied of Constance Francklyn , but she clings to him and , as she is a steady moneymaker , he tolerates her . 
Brent ? He is statelily ensconced up at Woodlawn . 
Susan has never been to his grave there . 
His grave in her heart she avoids that too , when she can . 
But there are times there always will be times If you doubt it , look at her profile . 
Yes , she has learned to live . 
But she has paid the price . 
