MANON LESCAUT I Why did he love her ? Curious fool , be still ! Is human love the fruit of human will ? BYRON . 
Just about six months before my departure for Spain , I first met the Chevalier des Grieux . 
I was amazed , on entering this quiet town , to see all the inhabitants in commotion . 
They were pouring from their houses in crowds , towards the gate of a small inn , immediately before which two covered vans were drawn up . 
Their horses still in harness , and reeking from fatigue and heat , showed that the cortege had only just arrived . 
There are one or two of them pretty enough and it is that , apparently , which attracts the curiosity of these good people . 
She tried , as well as the chain would permit her , to turn herself away , and hide her face from the rude gaze of the spectators . 
There was something so unaffected in the effort she made to escape observation , that it could but have sprung from natural and innate modesty alone . 
As the six men who escorted the unhappy train were together in the room , I took the chief one aside and asked for information respecting this beautiful girl . 
All that he could supply was of the most vague kind . 
We brought her , he said , from the Hospital , by order of the lieutenant general of police . 
There is no reason to suppose that she was shut up there for good conduct . 
I have questioned her often upon the road but she persists in refusing even to answer me . 
Yonder is a young man , continued the archer , who can tell you , better than I can , the cause of her misfortunes . 
He has followed her from Paris , and has scarcely dried his tears for a single moment . 
He must be either her brother or her lover . 
I turned towards the corner of the room , where this young man was seated . 
He seemed buried in a profound reverie . 
Never did I behold a more affecting picture of grief . 
He was plainly dressed but one may discover at the first glance a man of birth and education . 
He answered me candidly , that he could not communicate her history without making himself known , and that he had urgent reasons for preserving his own incognito . 
I tried every means at Paris to effect her liberty . 
Petitions , artifice , force all failed . 
Go where she may , I have resolved to follow her to the extremity of the world . 
I shall embark with her and cross to America . 
The traitors , however , left me to execute my scheme single handed , and decamped with my money . 
The impossibility of success made me of course abandon the attempt , I then implored of the guards permission to follow in their train , promising them a recompense . 
It is but a moment since , that venturing to do so , in spite of their threats , one of the fellows raised the butt end of his musket . 
I am now driven by their exactions to dispose of the miserable horse that has brought me hither , and am preparing to continue the journey on foot . 
Although he seemed to recite this story tranquilly enough , I observed the tears start to his eyes as he concluded . 
This adventure struck me as being not less singular than it was affecting . 
Alas ! replied he , I see not the slightest ray of hope . 
I must reconcile myself to my destiny in all its rigour . 
I shall go to America there , at least , I may be free to live with her I love . 
I have written to a friend , who will send me money to Havre de Grace . 
Well ! said I to him , I shall relieve you from that difficulty . 
Here is some money , of which I entreat your acceptance I am only sorry that I can be of no greater service to you . 
I gave him four louis d'ors without being perceived by the guards for I thought that if they knew he had this money , they might have raised the price of their concessions . 
I beckoned the chief to approach , and made the proposition to him . 
It seemed to abash the ruffian , in spite of his habitual effrontery . 
Let us see ! said I to him , what would suffice to prevent you from feeling the inconvenience ? He had the audacity to demand two louis . 
I gave them to him on the spot . 
It cost me altogether six louis d'ors . 
The graceful manner and heartfelt gratitude with which the young unknown thanked me , confirmed my notion that he was of good birth and merited my kindness . 
I addressed a few words to his mistress before I left the room . 
She replied to me with a modesty so gentle and so charming that I could not help making , as I went out , a thousand reflections upon the incomprehensible character of women . 
I arrived at Calais , from London , with my pupil , the Marquis of . 
We lodged , if I remember rightly , at the Golden Lion , where , for some reason , we were obliged to spend the following day and night . 
Walking along the streets in the afternoon , I fancied I saw the same young man whom I had formerly met at Passy . 
He was miserably dressed , and much paler than when I first saw him . 
He carried on his arm an old portmanteau , having only just arrived in the town . 
However , there was an expression in his countenance too amiable not to be easily recognised , and which immediately brought his features to my recollection . 
Observe that young man , said I to the Marquis we must accost him . 
His joy was beyond expression when , in his turn , he recognised me . 
Ah , sir ! he cried , kissing my hand , I have then once again an opportunity of testifying my eternal gratitude to you ! I enquired of him whence he came . 
He replied , that he had just arrived , by sea , from Havre , where he had lately landed from America . 
I returned , in fact , full of impatience to learn the details of his misfortunes , and the circumstances of his voyage to America . 
I gave him a thousand welcomes , and ordered that they should supply him with everything he wanted . 
He did not wait to be solicited for the history of his life . 
Sir , said he to me , your conduct is so generous , that I should consider it base ingratitude to maintain any reserve towards you . 
You shall learn not only my misfortunes and sufferings , but my faults and most culpable weaknesses . 
I am sure that , even while you blame me , you will not refuse me your sympathy . 
I should here inform the reader that I wrote down the story almost immediately after hearing it and he may , therefore , be assured of the correctness and fidelity of the narrative . 
I use the word fidelity with reference to the substance of reflections and sentiments , which the young man conveyed in the most graceful language . 
Here , then , is his story , which in its progress I shall not encumber with a single observation that was not his own . 
II I loved Ophelia ! forty thousand brothers Could not , with all their quantity of love , Make up my sum . 
I was seventeen years old , and was finishing my studies at Amiens , whither my parents , who belonged to one of the first families in Picardy , had sent me . 
I led a life so studious and well regulated , that my masters pointed to me as a model of conduct for the other scholars . 
The successful progress of my studies , my birth , and some external advantages of person , made me a general favourite with the inhabitants of the town . 
I was already decorated with the Cross , and called the Chevalier des Grieux . 
The vacation having arrived , I was preparing to return to my father , who had promised to send me soon to the Academy . 
My only regret on quitting Amiens arose from parting with a friend , some years older than myself , to whom I had always been tenderly attached . 
He had a thousand good qualities . 
You will recognise in him the very best during the course of my history , and above all , a zeal and fervour of friendship which surpass the most illustrious examples of antiquity . 
If I had at that time followed his advice , I should have always continued a discreet and happy man . 
I had fixed the day for my departure from Amiens . 
Alas ! that I had not fixed it one day sooner ! I should then have carried to my father's house my innocence untarnished . 
We had no other motive than curiosity . 
Some worn men alighted , and immediately retired into the inn . 
Although younger than myself , she received my civilities without embarrassment . 
I asked the cause of her journey to Amiens , and whether she had any acquaintances in the town . 
She ingenuously told me that she had been sent there by her parents , to commence her novitiate for taking the veil . 
Love had so quickened my perception , even in the short moment it had been enthroned , that I saw in this announcement a death blow to my hopes . 
I spoke to her in a way that made her at once understand what was passing in my mind for she had more experience than myself . 
I combated the cruel intention of her parents with all the arguments that my new born passion and schoolboy eloquence could suggest . 
She affected neither austerity nor reserve . 
I made many other pressing and tender speeches and my unknown fair one was perfectly aware that mine was not the age for deceit . 
Her old guardian having by this time joined us , my hopes would have been blighted , but that she had tact enough to make amends for my stupidity . 
He had not heard our conversation , having walked up and down the court while I was talking of love to my angelic mistress . 
As I had some doubts of his discretion , I got rid of him , by begging that he would execute a commission for me . 
I had thus the happiness , on arriving at the inn , of entertaining alone the sovereign of my heart . 
I soon learned that I was less a child than I had before imagined . 
My heart expanded to a thousand sentiments of pleasure , of which I had not before the remotest idea . 
A delicious consciousness of enjoyment diffused itself through my whole mind and soul . 
I sank into a kind of ecstasy , which deprived me for a time of the power of utterance , and which found vent only in a flood of tears . 
seemed gratified by the visible effect of her own charms . 
She appeared to me not less excited than myself . 
She acknowledged that she was greatly pleased with me , and that she should be enchanted to owe to me her freedom and future happiness . 
After many reflections we could discover no other resource than in flight . 
To effect this it would be requisite to cheat the vigilance of Manon's guardian , who required management , although he was but a servant . 
I had about fifty crowns in my pocket , the fruit of my little savings at school and she had about twice as much . 
We imagined , like inexperienced children , that such a sum could never be exhausted , and we counted , with equal confidence , upon the success of our other schemes . 
After having supped , with certainly more satisfaction than I had ever before experienced , I retired to prepare for our project . 
All my arrangements were the more easy , because , for the purpose of returning on the morrow to my father's , my luggage had been already packed . 
Tiberge , although only three years older than myself , was a youth of unusually strong mind , and of the best regulated conduct . 
He loved me with singular affection . 
His presence annoyed me , and he soon perceived the restraint which it imposed . 
I am certain , he said to me , without any disguise , that you have some plan in contemplation which you will not confide to me I see it by your manner . 
I answered him rather abruptly , that I was not bound to render him an account of all my movements . 
Certainly not ! he replied but you have always , hitherto , treated me as a friend , and that appellation implies a certain degree of confidence and candour . 
He heard it with an appearance of disapprobation , which made me tremble and I immediately repented of my indiscretion , in telling him of my intended elopement . 
I was in despair at having so awkwardly betrayed myself . 
Tiberge , said I to him , up to the present moment I thought you were my friend and I wished to prove it by the test of confidence . 
It is true , I am in love I have not deceived you but with regard to my flight , that is a project not to be undertaken without deliberation . 
He left me , with a thousand protestations of friendship . 
I employed the night in preparing for the journey , and on repairing to the inn at early dawn , I found Manon waiting my arrival . 
She was at her window , which looked upon the street , and perceiving my approach , she came down and opened the door herself . 
We took our departure silently , and without creating the least alarm . 
She merely brought away a small portion of her apparel , of which I took charge . 
The chaise was in readiness , and we were soon at a distance from the town . 
Passionately in love as I felt with Manon , she knew how to convince me that she was equally so with me . 
So little did we restrain our fondness , that we had not even patience to reserve our caresses till we were alone . 
The postilions and innkeepers stared at us with wonder , and I remarked that they appeared surprised at such uncontrollable love in children of our age . 
Our project of marriage was forgotten at St . 
Denis we defrauded the Church of her rights and found ourselves united as man and wife without reflecting on the consequences . 
It is certain that with my easy and constant disposition , I should have been happy for my whole life , if Manon had remained faithful to me . 
The more I saw of her , the more I discovered in her new perfections . 
Her mind , her heart , her gentleness and beauty , formed a chain at once so binding and so agreeable , that I could have found perfect happiness in its enduring influence . 
Terrible fatality ? that which has been the source of my despair , might , under a slight change of circumstances , have constituted my happiness . 
We took a furnished apartment at Paris . 
in the Rue V , and , as it afterwards turned out , to my sorrow , close to the house of M. de B , the famous Fermier general . 
I resolved to effect , if possible , a reconciliation with my parent . 
In a word , I relied on obtaining his consent to our marriage , having given up all idea of accomplishing it without his approval . 
Manon received the proposition with considerable coldness . 
To Manon I had committed the care of our finances , and the house hold arrangements . 
In a short time , I observed that our style of living was improved , and that she had treated herself to more expensive dresses . 
As I calculated that we could hardly have at this period more than fifteen or twenty crowns remaining , I did not conceal my surprise at this mysterious augmentation of our wealth . 
She begged of me , with a smile , to give myself no trouble on that head . 
Did I not promise you , said she , that I would find resources ? I loved her too purely to experience the slightest suspicion . 
Our only servant was a young girl about our own age . 
On her letting me in at last , I asked why she had detained me so long ? She replied in an embarrassed tone , that she did not hear me knock . 
I was so confounded by this information as to be utterly unable to proceed to our apartment and was obliged to leave the house , under the pretext of an appointment . 
My horror was so great , that I shed tears as I went along , hardly knowing from what feeling they flowed . 
Still , I dared not recall what I had heard the moment before . 
I strove to look upon it as a dream and was more than once on the point of returning to my lodgings , determined to attach no importance to what I had heard . 
It appeared to me so impossible that Manon could have been unfaithful , that I feared even to wrong her by a suspicion . 
No , no ! I said , it is not possible that Manon can have deceived me . 
She well knows that I live but for her that I adore her upon that point I can have no reason to be unhappy . 
Notwithstanding these reflections , the visit of M. de B , and his secret departure , gave me some uneasiness . 
I remembered , too , the little purchases she had lately made , which seemed beyond our present means . 
This looked like the liberality of a new lover . 
And the confidence with which she had foretold resources which were to me unknown ? I had some difficulty in solving these mysteries in as favourable a manner as my heart desired . 
On the other hand , she had been hardly out of my sight since we entered Paris . 
However occupied , in our walks , in all our amusements , she was ever at my side . 
Heavens ! even a momentary separation would have been too painful . 
I could not therefore imagine how Manon could , to any other person , have devoted a single instant . 
At last I thought I had discovered a clue to the mystery . 
M. de B said I to myself , is a man extensively engaged in commercial affairs and Manon's relations have no doubt remitted her money through his house . 
She has probably already received some from him , and he is come today to bring her more . 
She wishes , perhaps , to derive amusement by and by , from an agreeable surprise , by keeping me at present in the dark . 
I cherished this idea so willingly , that it considerably lightened my grief . 
I immediately returned to my lodgings , and embraced Manon as tenderly as ever . 
She received me as usual . 
The very thought soon damped my gaiety . 
I gazed at her with equal earnestness , and she perhaps had no less difficulty in comprehending from my countenance what was passing in my heart . 
We neither spoke nor ate . 
A barbarian would have pitied my sufferings as I stood trembling with grief and apprehension . 
While my attention was thus confined to her , I heard people coming upstairs . 
They tapped gently at the door . 
Manon gave me a kiss , and escaping from my arms , quickly entered the boudoir , turning the key after her . 
I imagined that , not being dressed to receive strangers , she was unwilling to meet the persons who had knocked I went to let them in . 
I had hardly opened the door , when I found myself seized by three men , whom I recognised as my father's servants . 
My feelings were so overpowered , that I allowed myself to be led away without making either reply or resistance . 
I found my brother waiting for me as they had stated . 
They placed me by his side , and the coachman immediately drove , by his orders , towards St . 
III That we can call these delicate creatures ours , And not their appetites . 
The whole affair was so involved in obscurity that I could not see my way even to a reasonable conjecture . 
I was cruelly betrayed that was certain but by whom ? Tiberge first occurred to me . 
Tiberge ! said I , it is as much as thy life is worth , if my suspicions turn out to be well founded . 
However , I recollected that he could not by possibility know my abode and therefore , he could not have furnished the information . 
To accuse Manon was more than my heart was capable of . 
The unusual melancholy with which she had lately seemed weighed down , her tears , the tender kiss she gave me in parting , made it all as yet a mystery to me . 
I made up my mind to encounter some reproaches , or perhaps harsh treatment , for having outraged the paternal authority . 
We soon arrived at St . 
My brother , surprised at my long silence , thought it the effect of fear . 
He made me pass the night at St . 
Denis , merely taking the precaution of putting the three lackeys to sleep in my room . 
It cost me a pang to find myself in the same inn where I had stopped with Manon on our way from Amiens to Paris . 
The innkeeper and his servants recognised me , and guessed at once the truth of my history . 
Denis my brother had a chariot waiting for us , in which we started early the next morning , and arrived at home before night . 
He merely rebuked me in general terms for the offence I had committed , by absenting myself without his permission . 
I took the whole lecture only in the sense that accorded with my own notions . 
I thanked my father for his indulgence , and promised that I would in future observe a better regulated and more obedient course of conduct . 
We sat down to supper . 
They rallied me about my Amiens conquest , and my flight with that paragon of fidelity . 
He spoke of perfidy , and the not disinterested kindness he had received at the hands of M. de B . 
I was almost paralysed on hearing the name , and begged of my father to explain himself . 
He turned to my brother , to ask if he had not told me the whole story . 
My brother answered , that I appeared to him so tranquil upon the road , that he did not suppose I required this remedy to cure me of my folly . 
I remarked that my father was doubtful whether he should give me the explanation or not . 
I entreated him so earnestly that he satisfied me , or I should rather say tortured me , with the following most horrible narration . 
He began by asking me whether I was really simple enough to believe that I had been really loved by the girl . 
I told him confidently that I was perfectly sure of it , and that nothing could make me for a moment doubt it . 
He continued in the same tone to ridicule what he was pleased to call my dullness and credulity . 
I heard it all with a kind of sinking of the heart that I thought I could not bear up against , until he finished . 
It would be absurd to expect such noble sentiments from a man of his description , and one , besides , who is a perfect stranger to me . 
Now , you may congratulate yourself upon the duration of your triumph . 
You know how to conquer , rapid enough but you have yet to learn how to secure your conquests . 
I could no longer endure these remarks , every one of which struck a dagger to my heart . 
I arose from the table , and had not advanced four steps towards the door , when I fell upon the floor , perfectly senseless . 
By prompt applications they soon brought me to myself . 
My eyes opened only to shed a torrent of tears , and my lips to utter the most sorrowful and heartrending complaints . 
My father , who always loved me most affectionately , tried every means to console me . 
I listened to him , but his words were without effect . 
I threw myself at his feet , in the attitude of prayer , conjuring him to let me return to Paris , and destroy the monster B . 
No ! 'cried I he has not gained Manon's heart he may have seduced her by charms , or by drugs he may have even brutally violated her . 
Do I not know that well ? He must have terrified her with a poniard , to induce her to abandon me . 
He conducted me to one of the upper rooms , and left two servants to keep constant watch over me . 
I would have given a thousand lives to be but for one quarter of an hour in Paris . 
I had sense enough , however , to know that having so openly declared my intention , they would not easily allow me to quit my chamber . 
I looked at the height of the windows . 
Seeing no possibility of escaping that way , I addressed the servants in the most tranquil tone . 
I promised , with the most solemn vows , to make at some future day their fortunes , if they would but consent to my escape . 
I entreated them I tried caresses , and lastly threats but all were unavailing . 
I gave myself up to despair . 
I resolved to die and threw myself upon the bed , with a firm determination to quit it only with my life . 
In this situation I passed the night and the following day . 
I refused the nourishment that was brought to me next morning . 
My father came to see me in the afternoon . 
He tried in the most affectionate manner , to soothe my grief . 
He desired me so urgently to take some refreshment , that , to gratify him , I obeyed his wishes . 
Several days passed , during which I took nothing but in his presence , and at his special request . 
He continued to furnish new arguments to restore me to my proper senses , and to inspire me with merited contempt for the faithless Manon . 
My father was surprised at my still continuing so powerfully affected . 
This idea so took possession of his mind , that , prompted only by his affection for me , he came one day to reveal his thoughts . 
Chevalier , said he to me , it has been hitherto my intention to make you bear the Cross of Malta I now see that your inclinations do not bend that way . 
You are an admirer of beauty . 
I shall be able to find you a wife to your taste . 
Let me candidly know how you feel upon the subject . 
I answered that I could never again see the slightest difference amongst women , and that after the misfortune I had experienced , I detested them all equally . 
I will find you one , replied my father , smiling , who shall resemble Manon in beauty , but who shall be more faithful . 
Ah ! if you have any mercy , said I , you will restore my Manon to me . 
Be assured , my dear father , that she has not betrayed me she is incapable of such base and cruel treachery . 
It is the perfidious B who deceives both her and me . 
If you could form an idea of her tenderness and her sincerity if you only knew her , you yourself would love her ! You are absolutely a child , replied my father . 
How can you so delude yourself , after what I have told you about her ? It was she who actually delivered you up to your brother . 
You ought to obliterate even her name from your memory , and take advantage , if you are wise , of the indulgence I am showing you . 
I very clearly perceived that my father was right . 
It was an involuntary emotion that made me thus take part with the traitor . 
Alas ! replied I , after a moment's silence , it is but too true that I am the unhappy victim of the vilest perfidy . 
Yes , I continued , while shedding tears of anger , I too clearly perceive that I am indeed but a child . 
Credulity like mine was easily gulled but I shall be at no loss to revenge myself . 
My father enquired of me my intentions I will go to Paris , I said , set fire to B 's house , and immolate him and the perfidious Manon together . 
This burst made my father laugh , and had only the effect of causing me to be more vigilantly watched in my cell . 
I thus passed six long months during the first of which my mind underwent little change . 
My feelings were in a state of perpetual alternation between hate and love between hope and despair according as , the tendency of each passing thought brought Manon back to my recollection . 
I was supplied with books , which served to restore my peace of mind . 
I read once again all my favourite authors and I became acquainted with new ones . 
All my former taste for study was revived . 
You will see of what use this was to me in the sequel . 
The light I had already derived from love , enabled me to comprehend many passages in Horace and Virgil which had before appeared obscure . 
I wrote an amatory commentary upon the fourth book of the AEneid . 
I intend one day to publish it , and I flatter myself it will be popular . 
While in my confinement Tiberge came one day to see me . 
I was surprised at the affectionate joy with which he saluted me . 
I looked at him with some astonishment , which he at once perceived . 
My dear chevalier , said he to me , you shall hear nothing but the strict truth , of which I have assured myself by the most serious examination . 
I had , perhaps , as strong an inclination for pleasure as you , but Heaven had at the same time , in its mercy , blessed me with a taste for virtue . 
I exercised my reason in comparing the consequences of the one with those of the other , and the divine aid was graciously vouchsafed to my reflections . 
I conceived for the world a contempt which nothing can equal . 
I know the excellent qualities of both your heart and head . 
There is no good of which you may not render yourself capable . 
The blandishments of pleasure have momentarily drawn you aside . 
What detriment to the sacred cause of virtue ! Your flight from Amiens gave me such intense sorrow , that I have not since known a moment's happiness . 
You may judge of this by the steps it induced me to take . 
I did not stop here , continued he I returned next day to the house , to learn from her own lips what had become of you . 
She turned abruptly away when she heard the mention of your name , and I was obliged to return into the country without further information . 
You have seen Manon then ! cried I , sighing . 
Alas ! you are happier than I , who am doomed never again to behold her . 
He rebuked me for this sigh , which still showed my weakness for the perfidious girl . 
The idea was so suited to my present frame of mind , that when alone I thought of nothing else . 
Piety itself took part in these suggestions . 
I thereupon pictured to myself in anticipation a course of life peaceful and retired . 
Shall not I be happy ? added I will not my utmost wishes be thus gratified ? This project flattered my inclinations extremely . 
On this occasion he gave me some of the wisest , which tended less to divert me from my project , than to convince me of my good father's sound judgment and discretion . 
The recommencement of the scholastic year being at hand , Tiberge and I agreed to enter ourselves together at St . 
Sulpice , he to pursue his theological studies , and I to begin mine . 
His merits , which were not unknown to the bishop of the diocese , procured him the promise of a living from that prelate before our departure . 
My father , thinking me quite cured of my passion , made no objection to my taking final leave . 
The Cross of Malta gave place to the ecclesiastical habit , and the designation of the Abbe de Grieux was substituted for that of chevalier . 
I applied so diligently to study , that in a few months I had made extraordinary progress . 
I never lost a moment of the day , and employed even part of the night . 
Piety was by no means neglected , and I entered with ardent devotion into all the exercises of religion . 
Sulpice , and upon the heartfelt satisfaction I enjoyed while obeying their dictation , I shudder at the facility with which I outraged them all . 
I now thought myself entirely safe from the dangers of love . 
I fancied that I could have preferred a single page of St . 
Augustine , or a quarter of an hour of Christian meditation , to every sensual gratification , not excepting any that I might have derived even from Manon's society . 
I had passed nearly a year at Paris without hearing of Manon . 
It cost me no slight effort to abstain from enquiry but the unintermitting advice of Tiberge , and my own reflections , secured this victory over my wishes . 
The last months glided away so tranquilly , that I considered the memory of this charming but treacherous creature about to be consigned to eternal oblivion . 
The time arrived when I was to undergo a public examination in the class of theology I invited several persons of consideration to honour me with their presence on the occasion . 
My name was mentioned in every quarter of Paris it even reached the ears of her who had betrayed me . 
I had not the remotest suspicion of her presence . 
It is well known that in these places there are private seats for ladies , where they remain screened by a curtain . 
Sulpice covered with honours and congratulations . 
It was six in the evening . 
The moment I returned , a lady was announced , who desired to speak with me . 
I went to meet her . 
Heavens ! what a surprise ! It was Manon . 
It was she indeed , but more bewitching and brilliant than I had ever beheld her . 
She was now in her eighteenth year . 
Her beauty beggars all description . 
The exquisite grace of her form , the mild sweetness of expression that animated her features , and her engaging air , made her seem the very personification of love . 
The vision was something too perfect for human beauty . 
I stood like one enchanted at beholding her . 
Unable to divine the object of her visit , I waited trembling and with downcast looks until she explained herself . 
I shall not attempt to describe what my feelings were as I listened to this reproof . 
I remained standing , with my face half turned aside , for I could not muster courage to meet her look . 
I several times commenced a reply without power to conclude it . 
I had hardly uttered these words , when she rose in a transport of joy , and approached to embrace me . 
She loaded me with a thousand caresses . 
She addressed me by all the endearing appellations with which love supplies his votaries , to enable them to express the most passionate fondness . 
We sat down close by each other . 
Tell me if among others you have found any so affectionate and so devoted ? No , no ! I believe nature has cast few hearts in the same mould as mine . 
Beauteous Manon , said I , with rather a profane mixture of amorous and theological expressions , you are too adorable for a created being . 
I feel my heart transported with triumphant rapture . 
It is folly to talk of liberty at St . 
She then spoke of Tiberge , and the extreme embarrassment his visit caused her . 
A dagger's point , she added , could not have struck more terror to my heart . 
I turned from him , unable to sustain the interview for a moment . 
She continued to inform me how she had been apprised of my residence at Paris , of the change in my condition , and of her witnessing my examination at the Sorbonne . 
I asked what course she would recommend in our present emergency . 
It is requisite , she replied , at all events , to quit the seminary , and settle in some safer place . 
I consented to everything she proposed . 
She got into her carriage to go and wait for me at the corner of the street . 
I escaped the next moment , without attracting the porter's notice . 
I entered the carriage , and we drove off to a Jew's . 
I there resumed my lay dress and sword . 
My finances were in truth wretchedly low , and hers more than sufficiently enriched by the liberality of M. de B to make her think lightly of my loss . 
We consulted together at the Jew's as to the course we should now adopt . 
In order to enhance the sacrifice she had made for me of her late lover , she determined to treat him without the least ceremony . 
She gave me to understand that she could not quit Paris without regret . 
I had such a dread of giving her annoyance , that there were no risks I would not have encountered for her sake . 
We fixed on Chaillot , which is at a convenient distance . 
Manon at once returned to her house , and I went to wait for her at a side gate of the garden of the Tuileries . 
She returned an hour after , in a hired carriage , with a servant maid , and several trunks , which contained her dresses , and everything she had of value . 
We were not long on our way to Chaillot . 
We lodged the first night at the inn , in order to have time to find a suitable house , or at least a commodious lodging . 
We found one to our taste the next morning . 
My happiness now appeared to be secured beyond the reach of fate . 
Manon was everything most sweet and amiable . 
She was so delicate and so unceasing in her attentions to me , that I deemed myself but too bountifully rewarded for all my past troubles . 
As we had both , by this time , acquired some experience , we discussed rationally the state of our finances . 
was not a sum that could be expected to last our whole life besides , we were neither of us much disposed to control our expenses . 
Manon's chief virtue assuredly was not economy , any more than it was mine . 
Sixty thousand francs , said I , may support us for ten years . 
Two thousand crowns a year will suffice , if we continue to live at Chaillot . 
We shall keep up appearances , but live frugally . 
Our only expense will be occasionally a carriage , and the theatres . 
We shall do everything in moderation . 
You like the opera we shall go twice a week , in the season . 
As for play , we shall limit ourselves so that our losses must never exceed three crowns . 
Manon's passion was for amusement she was the only object of mine . 
Our residence at Chaillot began even to appear tiresome . 
Winter was approaching , and the whole world returning to town the country had a deserted look . 
She proposed to me to take a house in Paris . 
We had thus two dwellings , one in town and the other in the country . 
This change soon threw our affairs into confusion , and led to two adventures , which eventually caused our ruin . 
Manon had a brother in the Guards . 
He unfortunately lived in the very street in which we had taken lodgings . 
He one day recognised his sister at the window , and hastened over to us . 
He was a fellow of the rudest manners , and without the slightest principle of honour . 
He entered the room swearing in the most horrible way and as he knew part of his sister's history , he loaded her with abuse and reproaches . 
I had gone out the moment before , which was doubtless fortunate for either him or me , for I was little disposed to brook an insult . 
I only returned to the lodgings after he had left them . 
The low spirits in which I found Manon convinced me at once that something extraordinary had occurred . 
She told me of the provoking scene she had just gone through , and of the brutal threats of her brother . 
I felt such indignation , that I wished to proceed at once to avenge her , when she entreated me with tears to desist . 
While we were still talking of the adventure , the guardsman again entered the room in which we sat , without even waiting to be announced . 
We made him stay to dine with us . 
In a little time he became so familiar , that hearing us speak of our return to Chaillot , he insisted on accompanying us . 
We were obliged to give him a seat in our carriage . 
His magnificent uniforms were procured of my tailor and charged to me , and he even contrived to make Manon and me responsible for all his debts . 
One night we stopped in Paris to sleep , as it had now indeed become our constant habit . 
I asked whether the furniture had suffered . 
She answered , that there had been such confusion , owing to the multitude of strangers who came to offer assistance , that she could hardly ascertain what damage had been done . 
I was principally uneasy about our money , which had been locked up in a little box . 
I went off in haste to Chaillot . 
Vain hope ! the box had disappeared ! I discovered that one could love money without being a miser . 
This loss afflicted me to such a degree that I was almost out of my mind . 
I saw at one glance to what new calamities I should be exposed poverty was the least of them . 
I however preserved presence of mind enough to reflect whether I was entirely without resource , and an idea occurred to me which quieted my despair . 
I had calculated in endeavouring to comfort myself , that twenty thousand crowns would support us for ten years . 
Suppose that these ten years had now elapsed , and that none of the events which I had looked for in my family had occurred . 
No one who knows anything of the world can doubt that . 
How admirable is the compensating justice thereof ! If wealth brought with it talent also , the rich would be too happy , and other men too wretched . 
To these latter are given personal advantages and genius , to help them out of misery and want . 
These thoughts restored me a little to my spirits and to my reason . 
I determined first to consult M. Lescaut , the brother of Manon . 
I had about thirty three crowns left , which I fortunately happened to have about me . 
He coolly replied that suicide was the resource of fools . 
I had a better opinion of you , said I I had imagined that your motive for bestowing your friendship upon me was very different indeed from the one you now betray . 
It was easy to see that we had been hitherto his dupes . 
I begged of him to suggest some other . 
He proposed to me to turn my youth and the good looks nature had bestowed upon me to some account , by establishing a liaison with some generous old dame . 
This was just as little to my taste , for it would necessarily have rendered me unfaithful to Manon . 
I mentioned play as the easiest scheme , and the most suitable to my present situation . 
He admitted that play certainly was a resource , but that it was necessary to consider the point well . 
The only favour I then asked of him was to say nothing to Manon of the loss I had experienced , nor of the subject of our conversation . 
Sulpice , he would be sure to treat me with infinitely more rigour now . 
I consider it a blessing to have thought so apropos of Tiberge , and resolved to take measures to find him before evening . 
I returned at once to my lodgings to write him a line , and fix a convenient place for our meeting . 
I requested secrecy and discretion , as the most important service he could render me under present circumstances . 
The pleasure I derived from the prospect of seeing Tiberge dissipated every trace of melancholy , which Manon would not have failed otherwise to detect in my countenance . 
In an hour I received an answer from Tiberge , who promised to be at the appointed rendezvous . 
I had begged of him to meet me in the garden of the Palais Royal . 
He was there before me . 
He hastened towards me , the moment he saw me approach and shook me warmly by both hands . 
We sat down upon a bench . 
Alas ! said I with a deep sigh , your compassion must be indeed great , my dear Tiberge , if you assure me it is equal to my sufferings . 
He then begged of me , in proof of friendship , to let him know , without any disguise , all that had occurred to me since my departure from St . 
I gratified him and so far from concealing anything , or attempting to extenuate my faults , I spoke of my passion with all the ardour with which it still inspired me . 
I at length made such an impression upon poor Tiberge , that I saw he was as much affected by compassion , as I by the recollection of my sufferings . 
Man's mind must be at rest , to know the luxury of wisdom and virtue . 
I know that there is in your heart a love of virtue , and that you have been only led astray by the violence of your passions . 
I , of course , agreed to everything he asked , and only begged of him to deplore the malign destiny which rendered me callous to the counsels of so virtuous a friend . 
He then took me to a banker of his acquaintance , who gave one hundred and seventy crowns for his note of hand , which was taken as cash . 
I have already said that he was not rich . 
I felt the full force of his generosity , even to such a degree as almost to deplore the fatal passion which thus led me to break through all the restraints of duty . 
Virtue had for a moment the ascendancy in my heart , and made me sensible of my shame and degradation . 
But this was soon over . 
Manon was a creature of most extraordinary disposition . 
Never had mortal a greater contempt for money , and yet she was haunted by perpetual dread of wanting it . 
Her only desire was for pleasure and amusement . 
She would never have wished to possess a sou , if pleasure could be procured without money . 
The carriage made me more uneasy than anything else , for I saw no chance of being able to maintain either coachman or horses . 
I told M. Lescaut of my difficulties , and did not conceal from him that I had received a thousand francs from a friend . 
With all my repugnance to cheating , I yielded to dire necessity . 
Lescaut presented me that night as a relation of his own . 
He added , that I was the more likely to succeed in my new profession , from wanting the favours of fortune . 
However , to show them that I was not quite reduced to the lowest ebb , he said it was my intention to treat them with a supper . 
The offer was accepted , and I entertained them en prince . 
The principal scene of my exploits was the hotel of Transylvania , where there was a faro table in one room , and other games of cards and dice in the gallery . 
This academy was kept by the Prince of R , who then lived at Clagny , and most of his officers belonged to our society . 
Shall I mention it to my shame ? I profited quickly by my instructor's tuition . 
Tiberge was in the habit , at this period , of paying me frequent visits . 
He was never tired of his moral lectures . 
Over and over again did he represent to me the injury I was inflicting upon my conscience , my honour , and my fortune . 
I received all his advice kindly , and although I had not the smallest inclination to adopt it , I had no doubt of its sincerity , for I knew its source . 
Look , I said , at Manon's eyes , and tell me if there is one in the long catalogue of sins that might not there find a plea of justification . 
He warned me against the chastisement of the Divine wrath , and predicted some of the miseries with which indeed I was shortly afterwards visited . 
It is impossible , he said , that the money which now serves to support your debaucheries can have been acquired honourably . 
You have come by it unjustly , and in the same way shall it be taken from you . 
The most awful punishment Heaven could inflict would be to allow you the undisturbed enjoyment of it . 
All my advice , he added , has been useless I too plainly perceive that it will shortly become troublesome to you . 
It was in my room and in Manon's presence that he delivered this apostolical harangue . 
I was about to detain him but was prevented by Manon , who said it was better to let the madman go . 
What he said , however , did not fail to make some impression upon me . 
Manon's caresses soon dissipated the annoyance this scene had caused me . 
We continued to lead a life entirely devoted to pleasure and love . 
The increase of our wealth only redoubled our affection . 
There none happier among all the devotees of Venus and Fortune . 
I had realised by play such a considerable sum of money , that I thought of investing a portion of it . 
My servants were not ignorant of my good luck , particularly my valet and Manon's own maid , before whom we often talked without any reserve . 
The maid was handsome , and my valet in love with her . 
They knew they had to deal with a young and inexperienced couple , whom they fancied they could impose upon without much difficulty . 
They laid a plan , and executed it with so much skill , that they reduced us to a state from which it was never afterwards possible for us to extricate ourselves . 
Having supped one evening at Lescaut's , it was about midnight when we returned home . 
I asked for my valet , and Manon for her maid neither one nor the other could be found . 
I at once foresaw a part of the truth , but my suspicions were infinitely surpassed by what presented itself on going into my room . 
The lock of my closet had been forced , and my cash as well as my best clothes were gone . 
While I stood stupefied with amazement , Manon came , in the greatest alarm , to inform me that her apartment had been rifled in the same manner . 
This blow was so perfectly astounding , so cruel , that it was with difficulty I could refrain from tears . 
The dread of infecting Manon with my despair made me assume a more contented air . 
I said , smiling , that I should avenge myself upon some unhappy dupe at the hotel of Transylvania . 
However , she appeared so sensibly affected , that her grief increased my sorrow infinitely more than my attempt succeeded in supporting her spirits . 
We are destroyed ! said she , with tears in her eyes . 
I endeavoured , in vain , by my entreaties and caresses , to console her . 
My own lamentations betrayed my distress and despair . 
In fact , we were so completely ruined , that we were bereft almost of decent covering . 
I determined to send off at once for Lescaut . 
He advised me to go immediately to the lieutenant of police , and to give information also to the Grand Provost of Paris . 
This discreditable arrangement was all concluded before my return , and the execution of it only postponed till the next morning , after Lescaut should have apprised G M . 
Lescaut left me , after offering me a few crowns which I accepted . 
I rose at once to enquire after Manon's health they told me that she had gone out an hour before with her brother , who had come for her in a hired carriage . 
Although there appeared something mysterious in such a proceeding , I endeavoured to check my rising suspicions . 
I allowed some hours to pass , during which I amused myself with reading . 
At length , being unable any longer to stifle my uneasiness , I paced up and down the apartments . 
A sealed letter upon Manon's table at last caught my eye . 
It was addressed to me , and in her handwriting . 
Heaving some day a sigh for love , I should find it was my last . 
I adore you , rely upon that but leave to me , for a short while , the management of our fortunes . 
God help the man who falls into my hands . 
My only wish is to render my chevalier rich and happy . 
My brother will tell you about me he can vouch for my grief in yielding to the necessity of parting from you . 
I remained , after reading this , in a state which it would be difficult to describe for even now I know not the nature of the feelings which then agitated me . 
It was one of those unique situations of which others can never have experienced anything even approaching to similarity . 
It is impossible to explain it , because other persons can have no idea of its nature and one can hardly even analyse it to oneself . 
Memory furnishes nothing that will connect it with the past , and therefore ordinary language is inadequate to describe it . 
Whatever was its nature , however , it is certain that grief , hate , jealousy , and shame entered into its composition . 
If you adored me , ungrateful creature , I well know what course you would have taken you would never have quitted me , at least without saying adieu . 
It is only I who can tell the pangs and torments , of being separated from all one loves . 
I must have taken leave of my senses , to have voluntarily brought all this misery upon myself . 
My lamentations were interrupted by a visit I little expected it was from Lescaut . 
Assassin ! cried I , putting my hand upon my sword , where is Manon ? what have you done with her ? My agitation startled him . 
I ran to the door of the apartment , which I shut . 
Do not imagine , I said , turning towards him , that you can once more make a dupe of me with your lies and inventions . 
Either defend your life , or tell me where I can find Manon . 
How impatient you are ! replied he that was in reality the object of my visit . 
I came to announce a piece of good fortune which you little expected , and for which you will probably feel somewhat grateful . 
My curiosity was at once excited . 
He carefully avoided telling me that this was the result of his own advice , and that he had prepared the way before he introduced his sister . 
This speech produced its effect , he at once promised to take a house for you and Manon , for you must know that you are the poor little orphan . 
He left orders with his steward to look out for a house , and to have it in readiness by the time he returned . 
V Infected with that leprosy of lust , Which taints the hoariest years of vicious men Making them ransack to the very last The dregs of pleasure for their vanished joys . 
It was then that honour and virtue made me feel the most poignant remorse , and that I recalled with bitterness Amiens , my father's house , St . 
Sulpice , and every spot where I had ever lived in happy innocence . 
He had not a particle of courage , of which indeed I have , in the sequel of my story , abundant proof . 
We also determined that I should appear as awkward as I possibly could the first time I was admitted to the honour of an introduction . 
He returned to town three or four days after , and at once conducted Manon to the house which his steward had in the meantime prepared . 
She immediately apprised Lescaut of her return , and he having informed me , we went together to her new abode . 
The old lover had already gone out . 
In spite of the submission with which I had resigned myself to her wishes , I could not , at our meeting , repress the compunctious visitings of my conscience . 
I appeared before her grieved and dejected . 
The joy I felt at seeing her once more could not altogether dispel my sorrow for her infidelity she , on the contrary , appeared transported with the pleasure of seeing me . 
She accused me of coldness . 
I could not help muttering the words perfidious and unfaithful , though they were profusely mixed with sighs . 
I very soon followed her , and then I found her in a flood of tears . 
I asked the cause of her sorrow . 
Hearken to me , Manon , said I , embracing her I cannot conceal from you that my heart is bitterly afflicted . 
Stop , chevalier , said she , it is useless to torture me with reproaches , which , coming from you , always pierce my heart . 
I see what annoys you . 
Fate never rescued me from one precipice , but to lead me to another . 
At first he murmured , but the money in hand induced him to enter into our views . 
Lescaut undertook to have a coach waiting at the door . 
The supper hour having arrived , M. G M made his appearance . 
Already Lescaut was with his sister in the supper room . 
He then placed on the table before her , in louis d'or , two thousand four hundred francs , the half of her year's allowance . 
He seasoned his present with many pretty speeches in the true style of the old court . 
Manon could not refuse him a few kisses it was sealing her right to the money which he had just handed to her . 
I was at the door , and waiting for Lescaut's signal to enter the room . 
He approached to take me by the hand , while Manon was securing the money and jewels , and leading me towards M. G M , he desired me to make my bow . 
I made two or three most profound ones . 
Pray excuse him , sir , said Lescaut , he is a mere child . 
He has not yet acquired much of the ton of Paris but no doubt with a little trouble we shall improve him . 
You will often have the honour of seeing that gentleman , here , said he , turning towards me take advantage of it , and endeavour to imitate so good a model . 
The old libertine appeared to be pleased with me . 
He patted me on the cheek , saying that I was a fine boy , but that I should be on my guard in Paris , where young men were easily debauched . 
I fancy a likeness to Manon , said the old gentleman , putting his hand under my chin . 
I answered him , with the most simple air Sir , the fact is , that we are very closely connected , and I love my sister as another portion of myself . 
Do you hear that , said he to Lescaut he is indeed a clever boy ! It is a pity he should not see something of the world . 
Listen I said he it is positively wonderful in a boy from the country . 
The whole conversation during supper was of the same kind . 
Manon , with her usual gaiety , was several times on the point of spoiling the joke by her bursts of laughter . 
I contrived , while eating , to recount his own identical history , and to paint even the fate that awaited him . 
You will allow that I had reason for dwelling on this ridiculous scene . 
At length it was time to retire . 
He hinted at the impatience of love . 
Lescaut and I took our departure . 
G M went to his room , and Manon , making some excuse for her absence , came to join us at the gate . 
The coach , that was waiting for us a few doors off , drove up towards us , and we were out of the street in an instant . 
Although I must confess that this proceeding appeared to me little short of actual robbery , it was not the most dishonest one with which I thought I had to reproach myself . 
I had more scruples about the money which I had won at play . 
However , we derived as little advantage from one as from the other and Heaven sometimes ordains that the lightest fault shall meet the severest punishment . 
M. G M was not long in finding out that he had been duped . 
He therefore resolved to have us apprehended , and treated less as criminals than as vagabonds . 
An officer came abruptly one morning into our bedroom , with half a dozen archers of the guard . 
They first took possession of our money , or I should rather say , of G M 's . 
One must have experienced this kind of reverse , to understand the despair that is caused by it . 
The police were savage enough to deny me the consolation of embracing Manon , or of bidding her farewell . 
I remained for a long time ignorant of her fate . 
My unhappy mistress was dragged then from my presence , and taken to a place the very name of which fills me with horror to remember . 
I did not learn this till a long time after , when I had myself endured some months of rough and cruel treatment . 
My guards not having told me where it was that they had been ordered to conduct me , it was only on my arrival at St . 
Lazare that I learned my destination . 
I would have preferred death , at that moment , to the state into which I believed myself about to be thrown . 
I had the utmost terror of this place . 
My misery was increased by the guards on my entrance , examining once more my pockets , to ascertain whether I had about me any arms or weapons of defence . 
He had been informed of my apprehension . 
He saluted me with great mildness . 
Do not , my good sir , said I to him , allow me to be treated with indignity . 
I would suffer a hundred deaths rather than quietly submit to degrading treatment . 
No , no , he replied , you will act quietly and prudently , and we shall be mutually content with each other . 
He begged of me to ascend to one of the highest rooms I followed him without a murmur . 
The archers accompanied us to the door , and the governor , entering the room , made a sign for them to depart . 
Ah , enjoyment , indeed ! replied I you do not know , my good sir , the only thing on earth that could afford me enjoyment . 
I know it , said he , but I trust your inclinations will change . 
His answer showed that he had heard of my adventures , and perhaps of my name . 
I begged to know if such were the fact . 
He told me candidly that they had informed him of every particular . 
This blow was the severest of any I had yet experienced . 
I passed a week in the most profound dejection , without being capable of gaining any information , or of occupying myself with anything but my own degradation . 
There are few persons who have experienced the force of these special workings of the mind . 
The generality of men are only sensible of five or six passions , in the limited round of which they pass their lives , and within which all their agitations are confined . 
Remove them from the influence of love and hate , pleasure and pain , hope and fear , and they have no further feeling . 
Hence springs their impatience under contempt and ridicule and hence it is that a sense of debasement is perhaps the most violent of all their emotions . 
I had this melancholy advantage at St . 
My grief appeared to the governor so excessive , that , dreading the consequences , he thought he was bound to treat me with more mildness and indulgence . 
I listened always attentively and warmly expressed my sense of his kindness , from which he derived hopes of my ultimate conversion . 
You appear to me , said he one day , of a disposition so mild and tractable , that I cannot comprehend the excesses into which you have fallen . 
I was delighted to find that he had such an opinion of me . 
I resolved to strengthen it by a continuance of good conduct , convinced that it was the surest means of abridging the term of my confinement . 
I begged of him to furnish me with books . 
He was agreeably surprised to find that when he requested me to say what I should prefer , I mentioned only some religious and instructive works . 
I pretended to devote myself assiduously to study , and I thus gave him convincing proof of the moral reformation he was so anxious to bring about . 
It was nothing , however , but rank hypocrisy I blush to confess it . 
Instead of studying , when alone I did nothing but curse my destiny . 
I lavished the bitterest execrations on my prison , and the tyrants who detained me there . 
If I ceased for a moment from these lamentations , it was only to relapse into the tormenting remembrance of my fatal and unhappy love . 
Manon's absence the mystery in which her fate was veiled the dread of never again beholding her these formed the subject of my melancholy thoughts . 
I fancied her in the arms of G M . 
Oh ! how miserable were the days and nights I thus passed ! They seemed to be of endless duration . 
I soon had the satisfaction to find that I was firmly established in his good graces , and no longer doubted his disposition to befriend me . 
I , one day , ventured to ask him whether my liberation depended on him . 
I implored him without delay to do me that favour . 
Although his presence could not afford me much pleasure , I looked upon it as a certain prelude to my liberation . 
He accordingly came to St . 
I met him with an air more grave and certainly less silly than I had exhibited at his house with Manon . 
He spoke reasonably enough of my former bad conduct . 
I listened to all he said with an air of submission , which quite charmed him . 
Lazare , as I was so fond of that occupation . 
But he happened , unluckily both for me and for himself , to add , that he hoped Manon had also employed herself in the same edifying manner at the Magdalen . 
Lazare ! If an eternal imprisonment , or death itself , had been presented to my view , I could not have restrained the excitement into which this afflicting announcement threw me . 
I flung myself upon him in so violent a rage that half my strength was exhausted by the effort . 
I had , however , more than enough left to drag him to the ground , and grasp him by the throat . 
They rescued him from my fury . 
I was , myself , breathless and almost impotent from rage . 
Oh God ! I cried Heavenly justice ! Must I survive this infamy ? I tried again to seize the barbarian who had thus roused my indignation they prevented me . 
The Superior , having ordered some of the brotherhood to escort him out of the prison , remained alone with me . 
He conjured me to tell him at once what was the cause of the fracas . 
To be sure , I represented things to him in as favourable a light for us as possible . 
Now you can comprehend , continued I , the source of M. G M 's holy zeal for my conversion . 
He has had influence enough to have me shut up here , out of mere revenge . 
That I can pardon but , my good sir , that is not all . 
He has taken from me my heart's blood he has had Manon shamefully incarcerated in the Magdalen and had the effrontery to announce it to me this day with his own lips . 
He then enquired why I had never thought of informing my family of what had taken place , since they had not been instrumental to my incarceration . 
I satisfactorily answered this by stating my unwillingness to cause my father pain , or to bring upon myself the humiliation of such an exposure . 
I looked for the good Father's return with all the suspense of a man expecting sentence of death . 
It was torture to me to think of Manon at the Magdalen . 
Cost what it might , I was so bent upon relieving her by some means or other , that I should assuredly have set fire to St . 
Lazare , if no other mode of escape had presented itself . 
I considered what chances would remain to me if the lieutenant general still kept me in confinement . 
I postponed the details of its arrangement until after the Superior's return , in case of his having failed in the object of his visit . 
He soon arrived I did not observe upon his countenance any of those marks of joy that indicate good news . 
He desired that I would show you every kindness and attention , and I need not assure you that you shall have no reason to complain of your treatment . 
This speech of the Superior's was long enough to afford me time to form a prudent resolution . 
I saw that by betraying too strong an impatience for my liberty , I should probably be upsetting all my projects . 
I acknowledged to him , that , as it was necessary to me to remain , it was an infinite comfort to know that I possessed a place in his esteem . 
Sulpice , that I was at St . 
Lazare , and to permit me occasionally to receive his visits . 
This was of course my friend Tiberge not that I could hope from him the assistance necessary for effecting my liberty but I wished to make him the unconscious instrument of my designs . 
In a word , this was my project I wished to write to Lescaut , and to charge him and our common friends with the task of my deliverance . 
The first difficulty was to have my letter conveyed to him this should be Tiberge's office . 
However , as he knew him to be Manon's brother , I doubted whether he would take charge of this commission . 
Lazare , and assume the name of my eldest brother , as if he had come to Paris expressly to see me . 
I postponed till our meeting all mention of the safest and most expeditious course I intended to suggest for our future conduct . 
The governor informed Tiberge of my wish to see him . 
He lost no time in paying me the desired visit . 
My interview with Tiberge was of the most friendly description . 
I saw that his object was to discover the present temper of my mind . 
I opened my heart to him without any reserve , except as to the mere point of my intention of escaping . 
It is not from such a friend as you , said I , that I can ever wish to dissemble my real feelings . 
Tiberge , replied I , it is easy to triumph when your arguments are unopposed . 
Allow me to reason for a few moments in my turn . 
See the controversy between Bossuet and Fenelon . 
Tiberge appeared shocked by my remarks . 
I acknowledge , said I , that the comparison is not a just one , but my argument does not at all depend upon it . 
It was in this light , only , that I could observe no difference in our cases , and I cannot as yet perceive any . 
Do not be alarmed , said I , perceiving that I had almost offended his zealous feelings of devotion . 
It is an inherent principle in our nature , that our felicity consists only in pleasure . 
Let the preacher who seeks the reformation of a sinner tell me that virtue is indispensably necessary , but not disguise its difficulty and its attendant denials . 
My last sentence restored to Tiberge his good humour . 
He allowed that my ideas were not altogether so unreasonable . 
One effect of our conversation was to revive my friend's pity for me in all its force . 
However , I carefully concealed from him my intention of escaping from St . 
I merely begged of him to take charge of my letter I had it ready before he came , and I soon found an excuse for the necessity of writing . 
He faithfully transmitted it , and Lescaut received before evening the one I had enclosed for him . 
He came to see me next morning , and fortunately was admitted under my brother's name . 
I was overjoyed at finding him in my room . 
I carefully closed the door . 
Let us lose no time , I said . 
First tell me about Manon , and then advise me how I am to shake off these fetters . 
Wretch ! muttered I to myself , dearly shall G M pay for this ! As to your escape , continued Lescaut , it will not be so easy as you imagine . 
Besides , you are on the third story , and it would be impossible to introduce ropes or ladders through the window . 
I therefore see no means from without in the house itself we must hit upon some scheme . 
No , replied I I have examined everything minutely , particularly since , through the governor's indulgence , my confinement has been less rigorous . 
He in vain requested me to explain my plan . 
I told him that such an attempt as I contemplated could only appear rational after it had succeeded . 
I begged of him to shorten his visit , in order that he might with the less difficulty be admitted next morning . 
He was accordingly admitted as readily as on his first visit . 
He had put on so serious an air , moreover , that a stranger would have taken him for a respectable person . 
When I found in my hand the instrument of my liberty , I no longer doubted my success . 
There was an open communication between my room and that of the Superior . 
I impatiently awaited the moment for executing my purpose . 
The porter arrived at his usual time , that is to say , soon after nine o'clock . 
I allowed an hour to elapse , in order that the priests as well as the servants might be all asleep . 
I at length proceeded with my pistol and a lighted candle . 
I first gave a gentle tap at the governor's door to awaken without alarming him . 
This compliment to his friendship seemed to surprise him . 
He stood for a few moments looking at me without making any reply . 
A pistol ! cried he . 
I perceived the keys upon the table . 
I requested he would take them in his hand and walk before me , making as little noise as he possibly could . 
He saw the necessity of consenting . 
At length we reached a kind of barrier , just inside the great entrance . 
I already fancied myself free , and kept close behind the governor , with my candle in one hand , and my pistol in the other . 
The good Father apparently thought him strong enough to overpower me . 
He commanded him , most imprudently , to come to his assistance . 
He was a powerful ruffian , and threw himself upon me without an instant's hesitation . 
He did not dare refuse to open it . 
I made my exit in perfect safety , and , a few paces off , found Lescaut with two friends waiting for me , according to his promise . 
We removed at once to a distance . 
I was very far , however , from tasting perfect enjoyment Manon's sufferings were mine . 
She must be released , said I to my companions this was my sole object in desiring my own liberty . 
I rely on your aiding me with all your ingenuity as for myself , my life shall be devoted to the purpose . 
Lazare , it would be requisite for me to remain concealed for a few days , in order to give the enemy's zeal time to cool . 
No doubt this was wise counsel but , one should have been wise oneself to have followed it . 
Such calculating slowness little suited my passion . 
The utmost I could bring myself to promise was , that I would sleep through the whole of the next day . 
He locked me in my bedroom , where I remained patiently until night . 
I employed great part of the time in devising schemes for relieving Manon . 
I felt persuaded that her prison was even more inaccessible than mine had been . 
Force was out of the question . 
Artifice was the only resource but the goddess of invention herself could not have told me how to begin . 
As soon as night restored to me my liberty , I begged of Lescaut to accompany me . 
We were not long in drawing one of the porters into conversation he appeared a reasonable man . 
I passed for a stranger who had often with admiration heard talk of the Hospital , and of the order that reigned within it . 
He gave me such information upon the latter point as at once suggested an idea which flattered my hopes , and I immediately set about carrying it into execution . 
whether any of the gentlemen had children . 
This was enough for my purpose . 
I immediately put an end to our interview , and , in returning , I told Lescaut of the plan I had formed . 
He could hardly be so bad a friend to the fair sex , nor so absurd as to refuse his services in an affair of love . 
I have arranged a plan for interesting him in favour of Manon . 
If he is a man of feeling and of right mind , he will give us his assistance from generosity . 
I will not defer seeing him , added I , beyond tomorrow . 
I really feel so elated by this project , that I derive from it a good omen . 
Lescaut himself allowed that the idea was not unreasonable , and that we might fairly entertain a hope of turning it to account . 
I passed the night less sorrowfully . 
He was surprised at receiving a visit from a perfect stranger . 
I augured favourably from his countenance and the civility of his manner . 
You see , sir , said I , that all that can interest me in life , all that can command my affections , is in your hands . 
He seemed flattered by this mark of candour and confidence . 
He replied in a manner that became a man of the world , and a man of feeling also , for they are not always synonymous terms . 
I was the more satisfied with this frank avowal as to his want of influence , than I should have been by an unqualified promise of fulfilling all my wishes . 
I found in his moderation a pledge of his sincerity in a word , I no longer doubted my entire success . 
He , indeed , exceeded me in the proofs of his esteem for , inferring from my adventures , and especially my late escape from St . 
Lazare , that I might be in want of money , he offered me his purse , and pressed me to accept it . 
If you succeed in restoring altogether this dear creature to my arms , I should think myself happy in spilling the last drop of my blood in your service . 
Before we parted , we agreed as to the time and place for our meeting . 
He was so considerate as to appoint the afternoon of the same day . 
I waited for him at a cafe , where he joined me about four o'clock , and we went together towards the Magdalen my knees trembled under me as I crossed the courts . 
Beyond this , I have no prayer to utter . 
M. de T spoke to some of the porters of the establishment , who appeared all anxious to please him . 
The quarter in which Manon's room lay was pointed out to us , and our guide carried in his hand the key of her chamber it was of frightful size . 
I asked whether she had been decently provided for . 
He assured me that at least she had never felt the want of necessaries . 
We now approached her door . 
beat almost audibly in my bosom . 
I said to M. de T , Go in alone , and prepare her for my visit I fear that she may be overcome by seeing me unexpectedly . 
I remained in the passage , and listened to the conversation . 
He said that he came to bring her consolation that he was a friend of mine , and felt deeply interested for the happiness of us both . 
She asked with the tenderest anxiety , whether he could tell her what had become of me . 
He promised that she should soon see me at her feet , as affectionate and as faithful as ever . 
This very day , said he the happy moment shall not be long delayed nay , this very instant even , if you wish it . 
She at once understood that I was at the door as she was rushing towards it , I entered . 
We embraced each other with that abounding and impassioned tenderness , which an absence of many months makes so delicious to those who truly love . 
Our sighs , our broken exclamations , the thousand endearing appellations of love , exchanged in languishing rapture , astonished M. de T , and affected him even to tears . 
Poor Manon related all her adventures , and I told her mine we bitterly wept over each other's story . 
M. de T consoled us by his renewed promises to exert himself in our service . 
He advised us not to make this , our first interview , of too long duration , that he might have the less difficulty in procuring us the same enjoyment again . 
He at length induced us to follow his advice . 
Manon especially could not reconcile herself to the separation she made me a hundred times resume my seat . 
At one time she held me by my hands , at another by my coat . 
As to the abode , he said , 'it must no longer be called the Magdalen it is Versailles ! now that it contains a person who deserves the empire of all hearts . 
I made the man who attended a present as I went out , in order to quicken his zeal and attentions . 
This fellow had a mind less rough and vulgar than the generality of his class . 
He had witnessed our interview , and was affected by it . 
The interest he felt was doubtless increased by the louis d'or I gave him . 
He took me aside as we went down into the courtyard . 
I caught readily at the suggestion , and , although at the moment I was almost in a state of destitution , I gave him promises far beyond his desires . 
I considered that it would be at all times easy to recompense a man of his description . 
I enquired what means he intended to employ . 
I asked whether there was no danger of her being recognised as she traversed the long galleries and the courts . 
He admitted that there was danger , but that nothing could be done without some slight risk . 
Although I was delighted to find him so determined , I called M. de T , and informed him of the project , and of the only difficulty in the way . 
He thought it not so easy of execution . 
A single man may easily escape detection , but in company with a handsome woman , it would be utterly impossible to remain undiscovered . 
However sound this reasoning , it could not , in my mind , outweigh the immediate prospect of restoring Manon to liberty . 
I said as much to M. de T , and trusted that he would excuse my imprudence and rashness , on the ground of love . 
I added that it was already my intention to quit Paris for some neighbouring village , as I had once before done . 
There was a difficulty to be surmounted in carrying them in , but I had ingenuity enough to meet it . 
I begged of M. de T only to put on two light waistcoats the next morning , and I undertook to arrange the rest . 
We returned the following day to the Hospital . 
I took with me linen , stockings , etc . 
, for Manon , and over my body coat a surtout , which concealed the bulk I carried in my pockets . 
We remained but a moment in her room . 
M. de T left her one of his waistcoats I gave her my short coat , the surtout being sufficient for me . 
She found nothing wanting for her complete equipment but a pair of pantaloons , which in my hurry I had forgotten . 
The want of so necessary an article might have amused us , if the embarrassment it caused had been of a less serious kind . 
I was in despair at having our whole scheme foiled by a trifling omission of this nature . 
However , I soon hit on a remedy , and determined to make my own exit sans culotte , leaving that portion of my dress with Manon . 
My surtout was long , and I contrived by the help of a few pins to put myself in a decent condition for passing the gate . 
The remainder of the day appeared to me of endless length . 
When at last night came , we went in a coach to within a few yards of the Hospital . 
We were not long waiting , when we saw Manon make her appearance with her guide . 
The door of the coach being opened , they both stepped in without delay . 
I opened my arms to receive my adored mistress she trembled like an aspen leaf . 
The coachman asked where he was to drive ? To the end of the world ! I exclaimed to some place where I can never again be separated from Manon . 
This burst , which I could not control , was near bringing me into fresh trouble . 
Extortion was the source of this scoundrel's delicacy . 
We were still too near the Hospital to make any noise . 
Silence ! said I to him , you shall have a louis d'or for the job' for less than that he would have helped me to burn the Hospital . 
We arrived at Lescaut's house . 
As it was late , M. de T left us on the way , promising to visit us the next morning . 
I held Manon in such close embrace in my arms , that we occupied but one place in the coach . 
She cried for joy , and I could feel her tears trickling down my cheeks . 
When we were about getting out at Lescaut's , I had a new difficulty with the coachman , which was attended with the most unfortunate results . 
I called for Lescaut , and he came down to the door . 
I whispered to him the cause of my present embarrassment . 
Being naturally rough , and not at all in the habit of treating hackney coachmen with respect , he answered that I could not be serious . 
The fellow had probably before experienced the weight of a guardsman's arm , and instantly drove off , crying out , that I had cheated him , and should hear of him again . 
I in vain endeavoured to stop him . 
His flight caused me , of course , the greatest alarm . 
I had no doubt that he would immediately give information to the police . 
You have ruined me , said I to Lescaut I shall be no longer safe at your house we must go hence at once . 
I gave Manon my arm , and as quickly as possible got out of the dangerous neighbourhood . 
The Chevalier des Grieux having occupied more than an hour with his story , I begged him to give himself a little rest , and meanwhile to share our supper . 
He saw , by the attention we paid him , that we were amused , and promised that we should hear something of perhaps greater interest in the sequel . 
When we had finished supper , he continued in the following words . 
How chances mock , And changes fill the cup of alteration With divers liquors . 
How inscrutably does Providence connect events ! We had hardly proceeded for five minutes on our way , when a man , whose face I could not see , recognised Lescaut . 
He had no doubt been watching for him near his home , with the horrible intention which he now unhappily executed . 
It IS Lescaut ! said he , snapping a pistol at his head he shall sup tonight with the angels ! He then instantly disappeared . 
Lescaut fell , without the least sign of life . 
I turned down the first narrow street with her and the servant she was so overpowered by the scene she had just witnessed , that I could hardly support her . 
I had no certain asylum no confidential friend to whom I could have recourse . 
I was almost destitute of money , having but one dollar left in my purse . 
Fright and fatigue had so unnerved Manon , that she was almost fainting at my side . 
My imagination too was full of the murder of Lescaut , and I was not without strong apprehensions of the patrol . 
What was to be done ? I luckily remembered the inn at Chaillot , where we first went to reside in that village . 
I hoped to be not only secure , but to continue there for some time without being pressed for payment . 
Take us to Chaillot , said I to the coachman . 
He refused to drive us so far at that late hour for less than twelve francs . 
A new embarrassment ! At last we agreed for half that sum all that my purse contained . 
I tried to console Manon as we went along , but despair was rankling in my own heart . 
I should have destroyed myself a thousand times over , if I had not felt that I held in my arms all that could attach me to life this reflection reconciled me . 
I possess her at least , said I she loves me ! she is mine ! Vainly does Tiberge call this a mere phantom of happiness . 
I could , without feeling interest or emotion , see the whole world besides perish around me . 
Why ? Because I have in it no object of affection beyond her . 
It was eleven o'clock when we arrived at Chaillot . 
I took care to have her served with as much attention as if I had been in prosperous circumstances . 
At supper she appeared pale and thin I had not observed this at the Hospital , as the room in which I saw her was badly lighted . 
You do love me then devotedly ? I exclaimed . 
A thousand times more than I can tell ! was her reply . 
You will never leave me again ? I added . 
No ! never , never ! answered she . 
This assurance was confirmed by so many caresses and vows , that it appeared impossible she could , to the end of time , forget them . 
I have never doubted that she was at that moment sincere . 
As I knew her disposition , I hastened the next day to Paris . 
The death of her brother , and the necessity of getting linen and clothes for her , were such good reasons , that I had no occasion for any further pretext . 
A moment of solitude and tranquillity was requisite to compose myself , and to consider what was to be done in Paris . 
I sat down upon the grass . 
I plunged into a sea of thoughts and considerations , which at length resolved themselves into three principal heads . 
After having exhausted myself in devising projects upon these three chief points , I was obliged to put out of view for the moment the two last . 
The main object now was to replenish my purse . 
M. de T had once offered me his , but I had an extreme repugnance to mention the subject to him again . 
I would have sacrificed half my life to be spared the humiliation . 
This idea soon decided me I went on my way , resolved to go first to Tiberge , and afterwards to M. de T . 
On entering Paris I took a hackney coach , though I had not wherewithal to pay for it I calculated on the loan I was going to solicit . 
I drove to the Luxembourg , whence I sent word to Tiberge that I was waiting for him . 
I had not to stay many minutes . 
I told him without hesitation the extremity of my wants . 
I had not mentioned Manon's name he knew nothing of her escape so that his lecture was merely upon my own rash flight from St . 
Lazare , and upon his apprehensions lest , instead of profiting by the lessons of morality which I had received there , I should again relapse into dissipation . 
He told me , that having gone to pay me a visit at St . 
I listened to him attentively till he had finished . 
There was much in what he said to gratify me . 
In the first place , I was delighted to learn that I had nothing to fear on account of St . 
Lazare the streets of Paris at least were again open to me . 
Then I rejoiced to find that Tiberge had no suspicion of Manon's escape , and her return to my arms . 
I even remarked that he had not mentioned her name , probably from the idea that , by my seeming indifference to her , she had become less dear to my heart . 
I was in truth not at all averse to what I was now going to promise him . 
On the contrary , I was ready to apply myself to some creditable and rational pursuit , so far as the occupation would be compatible with my love . 
I reckoned upon being able to live with my mistress , and at the same time continuing my studies . 
I saw no inconsistency in this plan . 
Although I had money enough to pay for a hackney coach after my interview with Tiberge , I felt a pleasure in walking independently through the streets to M. de T 's house . 
There was great comfort in this unaccustomed exercise of my liberty , as to which my friend had assured me I had nothing now to apprehend . 
However , it suddenly occurred to me , that he had been only referring to St . 
Lazare , and that I had the other affair of the Hospital on my hands being implicated , if not as an accomplice , at all events as a witness . 
This thought alarmed me so much , that I slipped down the first narrow street , and called a coach . 
I went at once to M. de T 's , and he laughed at my apprehensions . 
I myself thought them ridiculous enough , when he informed me that there was no more danger from Lescaut's affray , than from the Hospital adventure . 
About two hours previously , a guardsman of Lescaut's acquaintance had come to see him , and proposed play . 
Lescaut had such a rapid and extravagant run of luck , that in an hour the young man was minus twelve hundred francs all the money he had . 
I at once told him the place of our retreat . 
He begged of me to allow him to sup with us . 
This he did so gracefully , that I felt no shame in accepting his present . 
We then took the road to Chaillot together , where I arrived much more easy in mind than when I had left it that morning . 
My return and the polite attentions of M. de T dispelled all Manon's melancholy . 
Let us forget our past annoyances , my dear soul , said I to her , and endeavour to live a still happier life than before . 
After all , there are worse masters than love fate cannot subject , us to as much sorrow as love enables us to taste of happiness . 
Our supper was a true scene of joy . 
In possession of Manon and of twelve hundred and fifty francs , I was prouder and more contented than the richest voluptuary of Paris with untold treasures . 
Wealth should be measured by the means it affords us of satisfying our desires . 
There did not remain to me at this moment a single wish unaccomplished . 
Even the future gave me little concern . 
VIII This Passion hath its floods in the very times of weakness , which are great prosperity , and great adversity both which times kindle Love , and make it more fervent . 
Manon soon found resources against ennui . 
She became acquainted with some young ladies , whom the spring brought into the neighbourhood . 
They occupied their leisure hours in walking , and the customary amusements of persons of their sex and age . 
I urged him to explain himself without reserve . 
After some hesitation , he gave me to understand that a foreigner of high rank had apparently fallen in love with Manon . 
I felt my blood boil at the announcement . 
Has she shown any penchant for him ? I enquired , interrupting my informant with more impatience than was requisite , if I desired to have a full explanation . 
I listened to this recital with the greatest impatience . 
He ended with the most awkward excuses , which I attributed to the premature and imprudent display of my own agitation . 
In vain I implored him to continue his history . 
In truth , the effect of his fright was to leave me in a state of the cruellest suspense . 
It was possible that she had ordered him to suppress part of the truth . 
However , after a little reflection , I recovered sufficiently from my fears to see the manner in which I had exposed my weaknesses . 
I could hardly consider it a crime in Manon to be loved . 
Judging from appearances , it was probable that she was not even aware of her conquest . 
That night I learned nothing at all calculated to trouble my repose . 
Two days passed without anything more occurring the third was of a different character . 
He had only time to express his delight by kissing the billet doux , for she was out of sight in an instant . 
But she appeared in unusually high spirits the remainder of the day and even after her return to our lodgings , her gaiety continued . 
I trembled at every word . 
You may be very certain I shall do that , said I , in rather a sharp tone . 
I considered it most fortunate that the idea of my remaining all the next day at Chaillot was suggested by herself I should thus have ample time for deliberation . 
This arrangement made me pass the night more tranquilly , but it by no means put an end to the alarm I felt at the prospect of a new infidelity . 
It was an amusement she often indulged in but she appeared to take more pains on this occasion than I had ever observed before . 
To gratify her , I was obliged to sit at her toilette table , and try all the different modes she imagined for dressing my hair . 
This amatory trifling engaged us till dinner time . 
We returned to her boudoir . 
She began again to put my hair in order , and I humoured all her whims when they came to say that the Prince of was below , and wished to see her . 
The name alone almost threw me into a rage . 
What then , exclaimed I , as I indignantly pushed her from me , who ? what prince ? She made no answer to my enquiries . 
Indignation and astonishment deprived me of the power of utterance . 
She renewed her entreaties , and I could not find adequate expressions to convey my feelings of anger and contempt . 
I saw a man extremely well dressed , but with a particularly ill favoured countenance . 
Notwithstanding his embarrassment , he made her a profound bow . 
You wish me to love you this is the man whom I love , and whom I have sworn to love during my whole life make the comparison yourself . 
He immediately retired without looking at her again , muttering to himself that the French women were quite as bad as those of Italy . 
I felt little desire , on this occasion , to change his opinion of the fair sex . 
Manon let go my hand , threw herself into an armchair , and made the room resound with her shouts of laughter . 
Still , however , I could not help thinking she had gone rather too far . 
I reproached her with what I called her indiscretion . 
I said not a word of the information I had received through another channel and the intoxication of triumphant love made me applaud all she had done . 
During my life I have remarked that fate has invariably chosen for the time of its severest visitations , those moments when my fortune seemed established on the firmest basis . 
One evening , when M. de T remained to sup with us , we heard the sound of a carriage stopping at the door of the inn . 
Curiosity tempted us to see who it was that arrived at this hour . 
They told us it was young G M , the son of our most vindictive enemy , of that debauched old sinner who had incarcerated me in St . 
Lazare , and Manon in the Hospital . 
His name made the blood mount to my cheeks . 
It is Providence that has led him here , said I to M. de T , that I may punish him for the cowardly baseness of his father . 
He shall not escape without our measuring swords at least . 
M. de T , who knew him , and was even one of his most intimate friends , tried to moderate my feelings of anger towards him . 
After such an assurance , I could offer no further opposition . 
M. de T did not introduce him without delaying a few moments outside , to let him know who we were . 
When the table was cleared , our conversation became more serious . 
He hung down his head while he spoke of his father's conduct towards us . 
He made , on his own part , the most submissive excuses . 
I say the less upon the subject , said he , because I do not wish to recall a circumstance that fills me with grief and shame . 
His looks and his manner became by degrees more tender . 
He , however , allowed no expression to escape him but , without even the aid of jealousy , I had had experience enough in love affairs to discern what was passing . 
He went off next morning with M. de T , who accepted the offer of a seat in his carriage . 
I felt , as I before said , not the slightest symptom of jealousy I had a more foolish confidence than ever in Manon's vows . 
This dear creature had so absolute a dominion over my whole soul and affections , that I could give place to no other sentiment towards her than that of admiration and love . 
I did not even deem it worth while to mention my suspicions to her . 
We were for some days occupied in arranging her new wardrobe , and in considering whether we might venture to the theatre without the risk of being recognised . 
M. de T came again to see us before the end of the week , and we consulted him upon this point . 
He saw clearly that the way to please Manon was to say yes we resolved to go all together that same evening . 
I feel it my duty therefore to avert any evil consequences from the mischief I have inadvertently caused . 
You may expect him every moment . 
The urgency of the occasion made me view this matter in a more serious light . 
I told M. de T of my intention , and he observed that he thought it a matter of extreme delicacy . 
I admit it , said I , but no man ever had more reason for confiding in a mistress , than I have for relying on the affection of mine . 
In fine , I persisted in my intentions , and taking Manon aside , I candidly told her what I had learned . 
She thanked me for the good opinion I entertained of her , and promised to receive G M 's offers in a way that should prevent a repetition of them . 
No , said I , you must not irritate him by incivility he has it in his power to injure us . 
G M is the son of our bitterest enemy we must avenge ourselves on the father , not through the son's person , but through his purse . 
My plan is to listen to his proposals , accept his presents , and then laugh at him . 
Show me the lover who does not blindly humour every whim of an adored mistress , and I will then allow that I was wrong in yielding so easily on this occasion . 
The resolution was taken to make a dupe of G M , and by an unforeseen and unlucky turn of fortune , I became the victim myself . 
About eleven o'clock his carriage drove up to the door . 
He made the most complaisant and refined speeches upon the liberty he had taken of coming to dine with us uninvited . 
Although there was not a single person in the party who was not at heart meditating treachery , we all sat down with an air of mutual confidence and friendship . 
G M easily found an opportunity of declaring his sentiments to Manon . 
I did not wish to annoy him by appearing vigilant , so I left the room purposely for several minutes . 
I perceived on my return that he had not had to encounter any very discouraging austerity on Manon's part , for he was in the best possible spirits . 
I affected good humour also . 
He was laughing in his mind at my simplicity , while I was not less diverted by his own . 
During the whole evening we were thus supplying to each other an inexhaustible fund of amusement . 
As soon as he got into his carriage with M. de T , Manon ran towards me with extended arms , and embraced me laughing all the while immoderately . 
She repeated all his speeches and proposals , without altering a word . 
But it assuredly is a temptation a furnished house , a lady's maid , a cook , a carriage , and three servants gallantry can offer but few more seductive temptations . 
She protested that her heart was entirely mine , and that it was for the future only open to the impressions I chose to make upon it . 
I look upon his promises , said she , as an instrument for revenge , rather than as a mark of love . 
I asked her if she thought of accepting the hotel and the carriage . 
She replied that his money was all she wanted . 
She told him to wait for an answer , and immediately brought the letter to me we opened it together . 
Passing over the usual commonplace expressions of tenderness , it gave a particular detail of my rival's promises . 
There were no limits to the expense . 
The appointed day for her entering into possession was close at hand . 
G M the younger was more cunning than the old gentleman . 
He wanted to secure his prey before he counted out the cash . 
We considered what course Manon should adopt . 
I made another effort to induce her to give up the scheme , and strongly represented all its dangers nothing , however , could shake her determination . 
He was the man who had rescued her from the Magdalen , and he was devotedly attached to us . 
I was to be with a hackney coach at the end of the street of St . 
Andre des arcs , and to leave it there about seven o'clock , while I stole , under cover of the twilight , to the door of the theatre . 
Manon promised to make some excuse for quitting her box for a moment , when she would come down and join me . 
The rest could be easily done . 
We were then to return to my hackney coach , and quit Paris by the Faubourg St . 
Antoine , which was the road to our new residence . 
This plan , extravagant as it was , appeared to us satisfactorily arranged . 
But our greatest folly was in imagining that , succeed as we might in its execution , it would be possible for us to escape the consequences . 
Nevertheless , we exposed ourselves to all risk with the blindest confidence . 
Manon took her departure with Marcel so was the servant called . 
I could not help feeling a pang as she took leave of me . 
She was to be in Paris at three o'clock . 
I went some time after . 
I spent the remainder of the afternoon moping in the Cafe de Fere , near the Pont St . 
I remained there till nightfall . 
I then hired a hackney coach , which I placed , according to our plan , at the end of the street of St . 
Andre des arcs , and went on foot to the door of the theatre . 
I was surprised at not seeing Marcel , who was to have been there waiting for me . 
I waited patiently for a full hour , standing among a crowd of lackeys , and gazing at every person that passed . 
Neither one nor the other could I find . 
I returned to the door , where I again stopped for a quarter of an hour , in an agony of impatience and uneasiness . 
No person appeared , and I went back to the coach , without knowing what to conjecture . 
I felt confident that it was Manon . 
I beheld a very pretty face , certainly , but alas , not hers . 
I have a letter for you , said she , which will tell you what has brought me here , and by what means I learned your name . 
I begged she would allow me a few moments to read it in an adjoining cafe . 
She proposed to follow me , and advised me to ask for a private room , to which I consented . 
Who is the writer of this letter ? I enquired . 
She referred me to the letter itself . 
This is nearly the substance of the letter G M had received her with a politeness and magnificence beyond anything she had previously conceived . 
He had loaded her with the most gorgeous presents . 
She had the prospect of almost imperial splendour . 
She signed herself , Your loving and constant , MANON LESCAUT . 
There was something so cruel and so insulting in the letter , that , what between indignation and grief , I resolutely determined to forget eternally my ungrateful and perjured mistress . 
I looked at the young woman who stood before me she was exceedingly pretty , and I could have wished that she had been sufficiently so to render me inconstant in my turn . 
No , no , said I , turning away from her the ungrateful wretch who sent you knew in her heart that she was sending you on a useless errand . 
Return to her and tell her from me , to triumph in her crime , and enjoy it , if she can , without remorse . 
I abandon her in despair , and , at the same time , renounce all women , who , without her fascination , are no doubt her equals in baseness and infidelity . 
Alas ! I was even at that moment infinitely more the dupe of love , than of , G M and Manon . 
The paroxysm of rage changed into a profound and silent grief I did nothing but weep and sigh . 
The poor child , who was only sixteen or seventeen years of age , and who appeared more modest than girls of her class generally are , was thunderstruck at this unusual scene . 
She however gently approached to caress me , when with uplifted hands I rudely repulsed her . 
What do you wish with me ? exclaimed I to her . 
Ah ! you are a woman , and of a sex I abhor , and can no longer tolerate the very gentleness of your look threatens me with some new treason . 
Go , leave me here alone ! She made me a curtsy without uttering a word , and turned to go out . 
I asked if they had said nothing more . 
She blushed while she replied , that they had certainly made her believe that I should be glad of her society . 
Return , return to M. G M he possesses everything requisite to make a man beloved . 
I continued in a tone of sorrow or violence , as these feelings alternately took possession of my mind . 
However , by the very excess of my agitation , I became gradually so subdued as to be able calmly to reflect upon the situation of affairs . 
I thereupon set about considering every means of raising a gleam of hope . 
To attempt to take her by main force from the hands of G M was too desperate a project , calculated only to ruin me , and without the slightest probability of succeeding . 
But it seemed to me that if I could ensure a moment's interview with her , I could not fail to regain my influence over her affections . 
I resolved to exert every nerve to procure an interview . 
I proposed to call upon him at once , and make him send for G M , under pretence of some important business . 
Half an hour would suffice to enable me to see Manon . 
I thought it would not be difficult to get introduced into her apartment during G M 's absence . 
I then got into the hackney coach , and drove quickly to M. de T 's . 
I was fortunate enough to find him at home . 
I had been apprehensive upon this point as I went along . 
A single sentence put him in possession of the whole case , as well of my sufferings , as of the friendly service I had come to supplicate at his hands . 
I told him that such a proceeding might by its publicity be attended with danger to Manon and to me . 
Let us risk our lives , said I , only as a last resource . 
My plan is of a more peaceful nature , and promising at least equal success . 
We first of all considered what expedient we could make use of for keeping him out so long a time . 
I will watch , added I , the moment he quits the house , and introduce myself without any difficulty , being only known to Manon , and my servant Marcel . 
He will require some time to take you to his father's house , where he keeps his money , and I shall have quite sufficient for the execution of my plan . 
M. de T minutely adhered to these directions . 
I left him in a cafe , where he at once wrote his letter . 
I took my station close by Manon's house . 
I saw de T 's messenger arrive , and G M come out the next moment , followed by a servant . 
Fortunately it was Marcel who opened for me . 
Although I had nothing to apprehend from the other servants , I asked him in a low voice if he could conduct me unseen into the room in which Manon was . 
He said that was easily done , by merely ascending the great staircase . 
Come then at once , said I to him , and endeavour to prevent anyone from coming up while I am there . 
I reached the apartment without any difficulty . 
I had there an opportunity of admiring the singular character of this girl . 
Ah ! it is you , my dear love , said she , approaching to embrace me with her usual tenderness . 
She remained immovable , and fixed her eyes on me , while she changed colour . 
I was in reality so delighted to behold her once more , that , with so much real cause for anger , I could hardly bring my lips to upbraid her . 
My heart , however , felt the cruel outrage she had inflicted upon me . 
I endeavoured to revive the recollection of it in my own mind , in order to excite my feelings , and put on a look of stern indignation . 
I remained silent for a few moments , when I remarked that she observed my agitation , and trembled apparently the effect of her fears . 
I could not longer endure this spectacle . 
But , Manon , I tell you that my heart is pierced with sorrow at your treatment of me treatment that is seldom inflicted but with the purpose of destroying one's life . 
This is the third time , Manon I have kept a correct account it is impossible to forget that . 
It is now for you to consider what course you will adopt for my afflicted heart is no longer capable of sustaining such shocks . 
I know and feel that it must give way , and it is at this moment ready to burst with grief . 
I can say no more , added I , throwing myself into a chair I have hardly strength to speak , or to support myself . 
She made me no reply but when I was seated , she sank down upon her knees , and rested her head upon my lap , covering her face with her hands . 
I perceived in a moment that she was shedding floods of tears . 
You affect a sorrow which you cannot feel . 
The greatest of your misfortunes is no doubt my presence , which has been always an obstacle to your happiness . 
Open your eyes look up and see who it is that is here you will not throw away tears of tenderness upon an unhappy wretch whom you have betrayed and abandoned . 
She kissed my hands without changing her position . 
Manon perceived this by the change in my voice . 
Horrible hypocrisy ! cried I I see more plainly than ever that you are dishonest and treacherous . 
Now at length I learn your wretched disposition . 
Adieu , base creature , said I , rising from my seat I would prefer death a thousand times rather than continue to hold the slightest communication with you . 
I advanced a little farther towards the door , but , unless I had lost the last spark of humanity , I could not continue longer unmoved by such a spectacle . 
I made her sit down , and throwing myself , in my turn , upon my knees , I conjured her to listen to me in that attitude . 
Then I briefly expressed all that a submissive and impassioned lover could say most tender and respectful . 
Me ! said I interrupting her impatiently I require no justification I approve of all you have done . 
Since your distress is the result of jealousy , I could at first have cured that by offering to accompany you where you pleased . 
But I imagined it was caused by the letter which I was obliged to write in the presence of G M , and of the girl whom we sent with it . 
It was this idea that at once overwhelmed me with grief for , innocent as I knew myself to be , I could not but allow that appearances were against me . 
However , continued she , I will leave you to judge of my conduct , after I shall have explained the whole truth . 
She then told me all that had occurred to her after joining G M , whom she found punctually awaiting her arrival . 
He had in fact received her in the most princely style . 
He showed her through all the apartments , which were fitted up in the neatest and most correct taste . 
I acknowledge , continued Manon , that I was dazzled by all this magnificence . 
I found him of a most tractable disposition . 
He asked me how I felt towards you , and if I had not experienced some compunction at quitting you . 
I told him that you were so truly amiable , and had ever treated me with such undeviating kindness , that it was impossible I could hate you . 
He admitted that you were a man of merit , and expressed an ardent desire to gain your friendship . 
He was anxious to know how I thought you would take my elopement , particularly when you should learn that I was in his hands . 
He was greatly amused with my proposition he called his valet , and asking him whether he could immediately find his late mistress , he dispatched him at once in search of her . 
Andre that consequently it would be best to send your new love there , if it were only to save you from the misery of suspense during the whole night . 
I said it would be also necessary to write you a line of explanation , without which you would probably be puzzled by the whole transaction . 
He consented but I was obliged to write in his presence and I took especial care not to explain matters too palpably in my letter . 
This is the history , said Manon , of the entire affair . 
I conceal nothing from you , of either my conduct or my intentions . 
I should have been too delighted to have sent Marcel , but I could not for a single instant find an opportunity of telling him what I wished to communicate to you . 
I listened to her with great patience . 
She could never have imagined that G M meant to venerate her as a vestal . 
She must therefore clearly have made up her mind to pass at least one night with him . 
There is nothing of wanton vice , said I to myself , in her transgressions she is volatile and imprudent , but she is sincere and affectionate . 
My love alone rendered me blind to all her faults . 
I was enchanted at the prospect of rescuing her that very night from my rival . 
I said to her With whom do you mean to pass the night ? She was evidently disconcerted by the question , and answered me in an embarrassed manner with BUTS and IFS . 
I felt for her , and interrupted her by saying that I at once expected her to accompany me . 
While we were getting ready for our departure , I heard someone knock at the street door . 
I felt convinced that it must be G M and in the heat of the moment , I told Manon , that as sure as he appeared I would take his life . 
In truth , I felt that I was not sufficiently recovered from my late excitement to be able to restrain my fury if I met him . 
Marcel put an end to my uneasiness , by handing me a letter which he had received for me at the door it was from M. de T . 
I showed the note to Manon I told her at the same time of the manner in which I had procured the interview with her . 
She said that it was impossible there could be a more enchanting project . 
You will have his place at supper you will sleep in his bed and tomorrow , as early as you like , you can walk off with both his mistress and his money . 
You may thus , at one blow , be amply revenged upon father and son . 
I yielded to her entreaties , in spite of the secret misgivings of my own mind , which seemed to forebode the unhappy catastrophe that afterwards befell me . 
I went out with the intention of asking two or three guardsmen , with whom Lescaut had made me acquainted , to undertake the arrest of G M . 
I begged of him to lose no time . 
He got them together in less than a quarter of in hour . 
G M , seeing that his assailant was supported by three soldiers , and perhaps not uninfluenced by a dread of the pistol , yielded without further resistance . 
I saw him led away like a lamb . 
X What lost a world , and bade a hero fly ? The timid tear in Cleopatra's eye . 
She seconded me with her usual adroitness . 
We sat down to supper . 
I gave Marcel orders to find a hackney coach , and engage it to be at the gate on the following morning a little before six o'clock . 
In the meantime our evil genius was at work for our destruction . 
We were like children enjoying the success of our silly scheme , while the sword hung suspended over our heads . 
The thread which upheld it was just about to break but the better to understand all the circumstances of our ruin , it is necessary to know the immediate cause . 
G M was followed by a servant , when he was stopped by my friend the guardsman . 
Alarmed by what he saw , this fellow retraced his steps , and the first thing he did was to go and inform old G M of what had just happened . 
Such a piece of news , of course , excited him greatly . 
This was his only son and considering the old gentleman's advanced age , he was extremely active and ardent . 
This was enough to convince him that his son's affair was a love quarrel . 
Although it was then at least half past ten at night , he determined at once to call on the lieutenant of police . 
I was stepping into bed when he arrived . 
He came up to the apartment , still accompanied by the guard . 
We were just on the point of lying down when he burst open the door , and electrified us by his appearance . 
Heavens ! said I to Manon , it is old G M . 
I attempted to get possession of my sword but it was fortunately entangled in my belt . 
The archers , who saw my object , advanced to lay hold of me . 
Stript to my shirt , I could , of course , offer no resistance , and they speedily deprived me of all means of defence . 
G M , although a good deal embarrassed by the whole scene , soon recognised me and Manon still more easily . 
You hoary and lecherous villain ! I exclaimed , if I had been inclined to kill any of your worthless family , it is with you I should most assuredly have commenced . 
You will have me hanged , said I , will you ? Infamous scoundre ! it is for such as you that the gibbet is erected . 
Know that the blood which flows in my veins is noble , and purer in every sense than yours . 
I was imprudent in acknowledging that I knew where his son was , but excess of anger made me commit this indiscretion . 
He immediately called in five or six other archers , who were waiting at the gate , and ordered them to take all the servants into custody . 
I now saw the folly I had committed . 
He approached Manon , who was sitting upon the bed , bathed in a flood of tears . 
He said something , with the most cruel irony , of the despotic power she wielded over old and young , father and son her edifying dominion over her empire . 
This superannuated monster of incontinence actually attempted to take liberties with her . 
I know not what were his intentions at that moment with regard to us we might perhaps have regained our liberty if we had told him where his son was . 
As I dressed , I considered whether this would not be the wisest course . 
But if , on quitting the room , such had been the disposition of his mind , it was very different when he returned . 
He had first gone to question Manon's servants , who were in the custody of the guard . 
This lad was faithful , but weak and unsophisticated . 
He promised that , if they would spare his life , he would disclose everything he knew . 
The booby then told him the leading features of our plot , of which we had made no secret before him , as he was himself to have borne a part in it . 
Having acquired this information , the old gentleman hastened back in a rage to the apartment . 
Without uttering a word , he passed into the boudoir , where he easily put his hand upon the money and the jewels . 
He then accosted us , bursting with rage and holding up what he was pleased to call our plunder , he loaded us with the most indignant reproaches . 
He placed close to Manon's eye the pearl necklace and bracelets . 
Do you recognise them ? said he , in a tone of mockery 'it is not , perhaps , the first time you may have seen them . 
I could hardly contain my indignation at this speech . 
It did not require much consideration to feel convinced that our incarceration in Le Chatelet would be a serious calamity . 
I foresaw all the dangers that would ensue . 
In spite of my pride , I plainly saw the necessity of bending before my fate , and conciliating my most implacable enemy by submission . 
I begged of him , in the quietest manner , to listen to me . 
Neither pains nor imprisonment will be requisite to make me tell you where your son now is . 
He is in perfect safety . 
It was never my intention to injure him , nor to give you just cause for offence . 
I am ready to let you know the place where he is safely passing the night , if , in return , you will set us at liberty . 
The old tiger , far from being softened by my prayer , turned his back upon me and laughed . 
A few words , escaped him , which showed that he perfectly well knew our whole plan from the commencement . 
As for his son , the brute said that he would easily find him , since I had not assassinated him . 
Conduct them to the Petit Chatelet , said he to the archers and take especial care that the chevalier does not escape you he is a scamp that once before escaped from St . 
He went out , and left me in a condition that you may picture to yourself . 
They had a coach at the door . 
We went in the same coach . 
I supported her in my arms . 
I assured her that I never could complain , while she continued to love me . 
It is not I that have reason to complain , I added imprisonment for a few months has no terrors for me , and I would infinitely prefer Le Chatelet to St . 
Lazare but it is for you , my dearest soul , that my heart bleeds . 
These feelings filled me with grief but it was bliss compared with my prospects for the future . 
My fear , on account of Manon , knew no bounds . 
I wished to let her know my fears I was apprehensive of exciting hers . 
Manon , said I , tell me sincerely , will you ever cease to love me ? She answered , that it made her unhappy to think that I could doubt it . 
Very well , replied I , I do so no longer and with this conviction , I may well defy all my enemies . 
We arrived at the prison , where they put us into separate cells . 
This blow was the less severe , because I was prepared for it . 
I recommended Manon to the attention of the porter , telling him that I was a person of some distinction , and promising him a considerable recompense . 
I embraced my dearest mistress before we parted I implored her not to distress herself too much , and to fear nothing while I lived . 
I had money with me I gave her some and I paid the porter , out of what remained , the amount of a month's expenses for both of us in , advance . 
This had an excellent effect , for I found myself placed in an apartment comfortably furnished , and they assured me that Manon was in one equally good . 
I immediately set about devising the means of procuring my liberty . 
I resolved to write immediately to my father , and beg of him to come himself to Paris . 
I felt much less humiliation , as I have already said , in being in Le Chatelet than in St . 
Besides , although I preserved , all proper respect for the paternal authority , age and experience had considerably lessened my timidity . 
He determined therefore to satisfy himself of my reformation by the evidence of his own senses , and to regulate his conduct towards me according to his conviction of my sincerity . 
He arrived the day after my imprisonment . 
His first visit was to Tiberge , to whose care I begged that he would address his answer . 
He could not learn from him either my present abode or condition Tiberge merely told him of my principal adventures since I had escaped from St . 
Tiberge spoke warmly of the disposition to virtue which I had evinced at our last interview . 
He added , that he considered me as having quite got rid of Manon but that he was nevertheless surprised at my not having given him any intelligence about myself for a week . 
My father was not to be duped . 
He upbraided me certainly , but not in any harsh or annoying manner . 
He desired me not to abandon myself to grief , and assured me that he felt every disposition to serve me , as well on account of my birth as my inexperience . 
I ventured to bespeak his attentions in favour of Manon , and I dwelt upon her gentle and excellent disposition . 
He replied , with a smile , that he had not yet seen her , but that she had been represented to him as a most dangerous person . 
This expression so excited my sympathy , that I urged a thousand anxious arguments in favour of my poor mistress , and I could not restrain even from shedding tears . 
He desired them to conduct me back to my chamber . 
I embraced him in the greatest possible state of confusion . 
He took a seat , without either one or other of us having uttered a word . 
As I remained standing , with my head uncovered , and my eyes cast on the ground , Be seated , sir , said he in a solemn voice be seated . 
I have to thank the notoriety of your debaucheries for learning the place of your abode . 
It is the privilege of such fame as yours , that it cannot lie concealed . 
You are acquiring celebrity by an unerring path . 
Doubtless it will lead you to the Greve , and you will then have the unfading glory of being held up to the admiration of the world . 
I thought I might be permitted to explain my feelings . 
Neither have I , sir , the slightest wish to pass for the most respectable member of my family . 
I know that I have merited your reproaches , but I conjure you to temper them with mercy , and not to look upon me as the most infamous of mankind . 
I do not deserve such harsh names . 
It is love , you know it , that has caused all my errors . 
I could not help shedding a tear as I concluded this appeal . 
A father's heart is a chef d'oeuvre of creation . 
There nature rules in undisturbed dominion , and regulates at will its most secret springs . 
Come to me , my poor chevalier , said he come and embrace me . 
I do pity you ! I embraced him he pressed me to him in such a manner , that I guessed what was passing in his heart . 
But how are we , said he , to extricate you from this place ? Explain to me the real situation of your affairs . 
As I recounted each transgression , I took care to cite some illustrious example in my justification , in order to palliate my own faults . 
I lived , said I , with a mistress without the solemnity of marriage . 
The Duke of keeps two before the eyes of all Paris . 
M D has had one now for ten years , and loves her with a fidelity which he has never shown to his wife . 
Two thirds of the men of fashion in Paris keep mistresses . 
I certainly have on one or two occasions cheated at play . 
Well , the Marquis of and the Count have no other source of revenue . 
The Prince of and the Duke of are at the head of a gang of the same industrious order . 
He asked me whether I could suggest any means of obtaining my liberty , and in such a way as to avoid publicity as much as possible . 
I told him of the kind feelings which the lieutenant general of police had expressed towards me . 
If you encounter any obstacles , said I , they will be offered only by the two G M s so that I think it would be advisable to call upon them . 
He promised to do so . 
On quitting me , my father went to pay a visit to M. G M . 
He found him with his son , whom the guardsman had safely restored to liberty . 
I never learned the particulars of their conversation but I could easily infer them from the disastrous results . 
They happened , at that very period , to be sending out a number of convicts to the Mississippi . 
The lieutenant general promised to have her embarked on board the first vessel that sailed . 
M. G M and my father came together to bring me the news of my liberation . 
My father desired me to express my sorrow for the injustice I had even contemplated against his family , and my gratitude for his having assisted in procuring my liberation . 
We all left the prison together , without the mention of Manon's name . 
I dared not in their presence speak of her to the turnkeys . 
Alas ! all my entreaties in her favour would have been useless . 
The cruel sentence upon Manon had arrived at the same time as the warrant for my discharge . 
The unfortunate girl was conducted in an hour after to the Hospital , to be there classed with some other wretched women , who had been condemned to the same punishment . 
My father having forced me to accompany him to the house where he was residing , it was near six o'clock before I had an opportunity of escaping his vigilance . 
I asked for the porter . 
I was at first unable to comprehend his meaning . 
We conversed for some minutes without my understanding him . 
XI Alack ! it is not when we sleep soft and wake merrily that we think on other people's sufferings but when the hour of trouble comes , said Jeanie Deans . 
Never did apoplexy produce on mortal a more sudden or terrific effect than did the announcement of Manon's sentence upon me . 
I fell prostrate , with so intense a palpitation of the heart , that as I swooned I thought that death itself was come upon me . 
This idea continued even after I had been restored to my senses . 
Religion itself could depict nothing more insupportable after death than the racking agony with which I was then convulsed . 
Yet , by a miracle , only within the power of omnipotent love , I soon regained strength enough to express my gratitude to Heaven for restoring me to sense and reason . 
The porter gave me every assistance that I could have expected at the hands of my oldest friend I accepted his services with the liveliest gratitude . 
Do not stop me , said I , as I went out we shall meet again sooner than you imagine get ready your darkest dungeon , for I shall shortly become its tenant . 
Even my father's life was hardly respected , so just appeared my feelings of vengeance for the porter had informed me that he and G M were jointly the authors of my ruin . 
But when I had advanced some paces into the street , and the fresh air had cooled my excitement , I gradually viewed matters in a more rational mood . 
The death of our enemies could be of little use to Manon and the obvious effect of such violence would be to deprive me of all other chance of serving her . 
I had very little money left money , however , was an indispensable basis for all my operations . 
I only knew three persons from whom I had any right to ask pecuniary assistance M. de T , Tiberge , and my father . 
There appeared little chance of obtaining any from the two latter , and I was really ashamed again to importune M. de T . 
But it is not in desperate emergencies that one stands upon points of ceremony . 
I went first to the seminary of St . 
Sulpice , without considering whether I should be recognised . 
His first words showed me that he knew nothing of my latest adventure this made me change the design I had originally formed of appealing at once to his compassion . 
He handed me his purse , without a single remark . 
I took twenty or twenty five pounds , which it contained . 
I offered him my note of hand , but he was too generous to accept it . 
I then went to M. de T I had no reserve with him . 
He , however , listened to me , and seemed sincerely to lament what had occurred . 
I was so confounded by what he said , that if he had gone on speaking for another hour , I should not have interrupted him . 
Nor did he wait for me to urge a plea of poverty . 
Here is fifty pounds , he said , presenting me his purse it may be of use to you you can repay me when you are in better circumstances . 
This unlooked for generosity affected me to tears . 
I expressed my gratitude with as much warmth as my depressed spirits left at my command . 
I was not without apprehensions indeed of his now retaining me against my will , and perhaps taking me at once back with him into the country . 
My elder brother had formerly had recourse to this violent measure . 
True , I was now somewhat older but age is a feeble argument against force . 
M. de T went to G M 's , and I to the Luxembourg , whence I sent my father word , that a gentleman waited there to speak with him . 
I hardly thought he would come , as the night was advancing . 
He , however , soon made his appearance , followed by a servant I begged of him to choose a walk where we could be alone . 
We walked at least a hundred paces without speaking . 
He doubtless imagined that so much precaution could not be taken without some important object . 
He waited for my opening speech , and I was meditating how to commence it . 
But it does seem to me , that your inexorable severity Well , sir , my severity ! interrupted my father , who no doubt found my hesitation little suited to his impatience . 
Ah , sir , I replied , it does seem to me that your severity is excessive in the penalty you inflict upon the unfortunate Manon . 
You have taken only M. G M 's report of her . 
His hatred has made him represent her to you in the most odious colours you have formed a frightful idea of her . 
You would then have been her advocate you would have abhorred the foul artifices of G M you would have had pity on both her and me . 
Alas ! I am persuaded of it your heart is not insensible it must ere now have melted with compassion . 
He interrupted me again , perceiving that I spoke with a warmth which would not allow me to finish very briefly . 
He begged to know with what request I intended to wind up so fervent an harangue . 
To ask my life at your hands , said I , which I never can retain if Manon once embark for America . 
No ! no ! replied he , in the severest tone I would rather see you lifeless , than infamous and depraved . 
I threw myself at his feet Ah ! exclaimed I , if you have still any remains of mercy , do not harden your heart against my distress and sorrow . 
Had she lived to witness the unredeemed profligacy of your life , it would have brought her in pain and sorrow to her grave . 
The cool and resolute tone in which he uttered this command , convinced me that he was inexorable . 
I stepped some paces aside , for fear he should think fit to lay hands upon me . 
Do not increase my misery and despair , said I to him , by forcing me to disobey you . 
It is impossible for me to follow you and equally so that I should continue to live , after the unkind treatment I have experienced from you . 
I , therefore , bid you an eternal adieu . 
When you know that I am dead , as I shall soon be , the paternal affection which you once entertained for me may be perhaps revived . 
As I was about to turn away from him You refuse then to follow me , cried he , in a tone of excessive anger . 
Go ! go on to your ruin . 
Adieu ! ungrateful and disobedient boy . 
His negotiation had been as unsuccessful as my own . 
He told me so with the most sorrowful countenance . 
Young G M , although less irritated than his father against Manon and me , would not undertake to petition in our favour . 
There only remained to me , therefore , the violent measures which M. T had suggested . 
I now confined all my hopes to them . 
They were questionless most uncertain but they held out to me , at least , a substantial consolation , in the certainty of meeting death in the attempt , if unsuccessful . 
The first that occurred to me was the same guardsman whom I had employed to arrest G M . 
I had intended indeed to pass the night at his rooms , not having had a moment of leisure during the afternoon to procure myself a lodging . 
He was glad to see me out of the Chatelet . 
He made me an offer of his services . 
I explained to him in what way he might now do me the greatest kindness . 
He had good sense enough to perceive all the difficulties but he was also generous enough to undertake to surmount them . 
We spent part of the night in considering how the plot was to be executed . 
He spoke of the three soldiers whom he had made use of on the last occasion , as men whose courage had been proved . 
M. de T had told me the exact number of archers that would escort Manon they were but six . 
As I was not without money , the guardsman advised me to spare no pains or expense to ensure success . 
We must be mounted , he said , and each man must have his carbine and pistols I will take care to prepare everything requisite by tomorrow . 
We shall also want three new suits of regimentals for the soldiers , who dare not appear in an affray of this kind in the uniform of their regiment . 
I handed him the hundred pistoles which I had got from M. de T it was all expended the next morning , to the very last sou . 
I inspected the three soldiers I animated them with the most liberal promises and to confirm their confidence in me , I began by making each man a present of ten pistoles . 
The momentous day having arrived , I sent one of them at an early hour to the Hospital , to ascertain the exact time when the police were to start with their prisoners . 
Although I merely took this precaution from my excessive anxiety , it turned out to have been a prudent step . 
However , I learned , by the soldier's report , that they would go out towards Rouen , and that it was from Havre de Grace they were to sail for America . 
We at once went to the gate of St . 
Honore , taking care to go by different streets . 
We assembled at the end of the faubourg . 
In a little time we observed before us the six archers and the two wretched caravans , which you saw at Passy two years ago . 
The sight alone almost deprived me of my strength and senses . 
Oh fate ! said I to myself , cruel fate ! grant me now either death or victory . 
We hastily consulted as to the mode of making the attack . 
The cavalcade was only four hundred paces in advance , and we might intercept them by cutting across a small field , round which the high road led . 
The guardsman was for this course , in order to fall suddenly upon them while unprepared . 
I approved of the plan , and was the first to spur my horse forward but fate once again relentlessly blasted all my hopes . 
The escort , seeing five horsemen riding towards them , inferred that it was for the purpose of attacking them . 
They put themselves in a position of defence , preparing their bayonets and guns with an air of resolution . 
This demonstration , which in the guardsman and myself only inspired fresh courage , had a very different effect upon our three cowardly companions . 
Good heavens ! said the guardsman , who appeared as much annoyed as I was by this infamous desertion , what is to be done ? we are but two now . 
From rage and consternation I had lost all power of speech . 
I doubted whether my first revenge should not be in pursuing the cowards who had abandoned me . 
The guardsman , who saw my irresolution by my wandering gaze , begged of me to hear his advice . 
Being but two , he said , it would be madness to attack six men as well armed as ourselves , and who seem determined to receive us firmly . 
Let us return to Paris , and endeavour to succeed better in the choice of our comrades . 
The police cannot make very rapid progress with two heavy vans we may overtake them tomorrow without difficulty . 
I entreated him to leave me at once , lest the police should still suspect us of an intention to attack them . 
XII The pauses and intermissions of pain become positive pleasures and have thus a power of shedding a satisfaction over the intervals of ease , which few enjoyments exceed . 
Riding towards the cortege at a slow pace , and with a sorrowful countenance , the guards could hardly see anything very terrific in my approach . 
They seemed , however , to expect an attack . 
Be persuaded , gentlemen , said I to them , that I come not to wage war , but rather to ask favours . 
I then begged of them to continue their progress without any distrust , and as we went along I made my solicitations . 
They consulted together to ascertain in what way they should entertain my request . 
The chief of them spoke for the rest . 
I had about sixteen pistoles left , and candidly told them what my purse contained . 
Well , said the gendarme , we will act generously . 
It shall only cost you a crown an hour for conversing with any of our girls that you may prefer that is the ordinary price in Paris . 
I said not a word of Manon , because I did not wish to let them know of my passion . 
She had not even the curiosity to open her eyes on hearing the bustle of the guards when they expected our attack . 
I spent some moments gazing at her as I rode alongside the carriage . 
I had so lost my self possession , that I was several times on the point of falling from my horse . 
My sighs and frequent exclamations at length attracted her attention . 
I begged of the guards to stop one moment for the sake of mercy they consented for the sake of avarice . 
I dismounted to go and sit near her . 
When at length we were able to speak , our conversation was not less sorrowful . 
Manon said little shame and grief appeared to have altered the character of her voice its tone was feeble and tremulous . 
She more than once opened her lips without the power of giving utterance to her thoughts . 
In spite of the cruellest inflictions of Fate , I derived comfort from her looks , and from the conviction that I now possessed her undivided affection . 
I had in truth lost all that other men value but I was the master of Manon's heart , the only possession that I prized . 
I fancied myself already with her in a barbarous country , inhabited by savages . 
I am quite certain , said I , there will be none there more cruel than G M and my father . 
They will , at least , allow us to live in peace . 
They will not harass and persecute two lovers , when they see us adopt their own simple habits . 
I was therefore at ease upon that point . 
But my romantic ideas were not formed with a proper view to the ordinary wants of life . 
I had too often found that there were necessaries which could not be dispensed with , particularly by a young and delicate woman , accustomed to comfort and abundance . 
I was in despair at having so fruitlessly emptied my purse , and the little money that now remained was about being forced from me by the rascally imposition of the gendarmes . 
This idea made me resolve on writing to Tiberge , whom I had ever found ready to hold out the generous hand of friendship . 
I wrote from the first town we passed through . 
I only alluded to the destitute condition in which I foresaw that I should find myself on arriving at Havre de Grace , to which place I acknowledged that I was accompanying Manon . 
I asked him for only fifty pistoles . 
You can remit it to me , said I to him , through the hands of the postmaster . 
The gendarmes became so rapacious when they saw the violence of my passion , continually increasing their demands for the slightest favours , that they soon left me penniless . 
Love did not permit me to put any bounds to my liberality . 
At Manon's side I was not master of myself and it was no longer by the hour that time was measured rather by the duration of whole days . 
At length , my funds being completely exhausted , I found myself exposed to the brutal caprice of these six wretches who treated me with intolerable rudeness you yourself witnessed it at Passy . 
My meeting with you was a momentary relaxation accorded me by fate . 
Your compassion at the sight of my sufferings was my only recommendation to your generous nature . 
The assistance which you so liberally extended , enabled me to reach Havre , and the guards kept their promise more faithfully than I had ventured to hope . 
I went to the post office Tiberge had not yet had time to answer my letter . 
I cannot give you an idea of my despair . 
No , no , Manon , said I it is but too enviable a lot , in my estimation , to be allowed to share your misfortunes . 
Her observations made me tremble . 
I saw that she was overpowered by her afflictions . 
I tried to assume a more tranquil air , in order to dissipate such melancholy thoughts of death and despair . 
I had no difficulty in getting admitted on board the vessel . 
They were at the time looking for young men as voluntary emigrants to the colony . 
The passage and provisions were supplied gratis . 
I left a letter for Tiberge , which was to go by the post next morning to Paris . 
XIII Sunt hie etiam sua proemia laudi , Sunt lachrymae rerum , et mentem mortalia tangunt . 
E'en the mute walls relate the victim's fame . 
And sinner's tears the good man's pity claim . 
We set sail the wind continued favourable during the entire passage . 
I obtained from the captain's kindness a separate cabin for the use of Manon and myself . 
He was so good as to distinguish us from the herd of our miserable associates . 
I took an opportunity , on the second day , of conciliating his attentions , by telling him part of our unfortunate history . 
I did not feel that I was guilty of any very culpable falsehood in saying that I was the husband of Manon . 
He appeared to believe it , and promised me his protection and indeed we experienced , during the whole passage , the most flattering evidences of his sincerity . 
He took care that our table was comfortably provided and his attentions procured us the marked respect of our companions in misery . 
The unwearied object of my solicitude was to save Manon from every inconvenience . 
I felt no regret at quitting Europe on the contrary , the nearer we approached America , the more did I feel my heart expand and become tranquil . 
After a passage of two months , we at length reached the banks of the desired river . 
The country offered at first sight nothing agreeable . 
We saw only sterile and uninhabited plains , covered with rushes , and some trees rooted up by the wind . 
No trace either of men or animals . 
However , the captain having discharged some pieces of artillery , we presently observed a group of the inhabitants of New Orleans , who approached us with evident signs of joy . 
We had not perceived the town it is concealed upon the side on which we approached it by a hill . 
We were received as persons dropped from the clouds . 
The poor inhabitants hastened to put a thousand questions to us upon the state of France , and of the different provinces in which they were born . 
They embraced us as brothers , and as beloved companions , who had come to share their pains and their solitude . 
They were inhabited by five or six hundred persons . 
The governor's house was a little distinguished from the rest by its height and its position . 
It was surrounded by some earthen ramparts , and a deep ditch . 
We were first presented to him . 
After having thus inspected them , he sent for several young men of the colony who were desirous to marry . 
He assigned the handsomest women to the principal of these , and the remainder were disposed of by lot . 
He had not yet addressed Manon but having ordered the others to depart , he made us remain . 
I replied in the manner which I thought best calculated to confirm the opinion he had formed of us . 
He gave orders to have a habitation prepared for us in the town , and detained us to supper . 
I was really surprised to find so much politeness in a governor of transported convicts . 
In the presence of others he abstained from enquiring about our past adventures . 
The conversation was general and in spite of our degradation , Manon and I exerted ourselves to make it lively and agreeable . 
At night we were conducted to the lodging prepared for us . 
We found a wretched hovel composed of planks and mud , containing three rooms on the ground , and a loft overhead . 
He had sent there six chairs , and some few necessaries of life . 
Manon appeared frightened by the first view of this melancholy dwelling . 
It was on my account much more than upon her own , that she distressed herself . 
When we were left to ourselves , she sat down and wept bitterly . 
What is there in my lot to lament ? said I I possess all that I have ever desired . 
The governor is civil and obliging he has already given us marks of his consideration he will not allow us to want for necessaries . 
I well know , she continued , that I have never merited the almost incredible fidelity and attachment which you have shown for me . 
I have often caused you annoyances , which nothing but excessive fondness could have induced you to pardon . 
I have been thoughtless and volatile and even while loving you as I have always done to distraction , I was never free from a consciousness of ingratitude . 
Since you began to share them with me , I have been a stranger to selfishness I only wept from tenderness and compassion for you . 
I am inconsolable at the thought of having given you one instant's pain during my past life . 
Her grief , the language , and the tone in which she expressed herself , made such an impression , that I felt my heart ready to break in me . 
Oh Heaven ! cried I , I have now nothing further to ask of you . 
I am sure of Manon's love . 
That has been alone wanting to complete my happiness I can now never cease to be happy my felicity is well secured . 
It is indeed , she replied , if it depends upon me , and I well know where I can be ever certain of finding my own happiness centred . 
With these ideas , capable of turning my hut into a palace worthy of earth's proudest monarch , I lay down to rest . 
America appeared to my view the true land of milk and honey , the abode of contentment and delight . 
Our countrymen come here in search of gold they little think that we have discovered treasures of inestimably greater value . 
We carefully cultivated the governor's friendship . 
He bestowed upon me , a few weeks after our arrival , a small appointment which became vacant in the fort . 
Although not one of any distinction , I gratefully accepted it as a gift of Providence , as it enabled me to live independently of others' aid . 
I took a servant for myself , and a woman for Manon . 
Our little establishment became settled nothing could surpass the regularity of my conduct , or that of Manon we lost no opportunity of serving or doing an act of kindness to our neighbours . 
This friendly disposition , and the mildness of our manners , secured us the confidence and affection of the whole colony . 
We soon became so respected , that we ranked as the principal persons in the town after the governor . 
The simplicity of our habits and occupations , and the perfect innocence in which we lived , revived insensibly our early feelings of devotion . 
Experience had now begun with us to do the office of age it produced the same effect upon us as years must have done . 
Our conversation , which was generally of a serious turn , by degrees engendered a longing for virtuous love . 
I first proposed this change to Manon . 
I knew the principles of her heart she was frank and natural in all her sentiments , qualities which invariably predispose to virtue . 
I said to her that there was but one thing wanting to complete our happiness it is , said I , to invoke upon our union the benediction of Heaven . 
We have both of us hearts too sensitive and minds too refined , to continue voluntarily in the wilful violation of so sacred a duty . 
This speech seemed to inspire her with joy . 
I felt that I had no pretensions to aspire to the character of your wife . 
Ah ! Manon , said I , you should very soon be a sovereign's consort , if I had been born to the inheritance of a crown . 
I left Manon enchanted by this resolution . 
Some say that Love , at sight of human ties , Spreads his light wings , and in a moment flies . 
I was patiently permitted to go blindly along the high road of vice and the cruellest chastisements were reserved for the period when I was returning to the paths of virtue . 
I now fear that I shall have hardly fortitude enough left to recount the most disastrous circumstances that ever occurred to any man . 
I waited upon the governor , as I had settled with Manon , to procure his consent to the ceremony of our marriage . 
The governor had a nephew named Synnelet , of whom he was particularly fond . 
He was about thirty brave , but of a headstrong and violent disposition . 
He happened to be with his uncle when I arrived at the government house . 
I had no reason for keeping my intention a secret from him , so that I explained myself without hesitation in his presence . 
The governor heard me with his usual kindness . 
In an hour after , the chaplain paid me a visit . 
My indignation overcame my prudence . 
I immediately told Manon of the distressing message I had just received . 
We conjectured that Synnelet had warped his uncle's mind after my departure , and that it was all the effect of a premeditated design . 
They were , questionless , the stronger party . 
We found ourselves in New Orleans , as in the midst of the ocean , separated from the rest of the world by an immense interval of space . 
Besides , the success of a popular commotion was uncertain and if we failed in the attempt , our doom would be inevitably sealed . 
I had great difficulty in persuading her that it was absolutely necessary that I should go , and that she should remain at home . 
I promised that she should see me again in a few moments . 
She did not foresee , nor did I , that it was against herself the whole anger of Heaven , and the rabid fury of our enemies , was about to be concentrated . 
I went to the fort the governor was there with his chaplain . 
I supplicated him in a tone of humble submission that I could have ill brooked under other circumstances . 
I invoked his clemency by every argument calculated to soften any heart less ferocious and cruel than a tiger's . 
The barbarian made to all my prayers but two short answers , which he repeated over and over again . 
Manon , he said , was at his disposal and he had given a promise to his nephew . 
I felt persuaded , on quitting him , that it was folly to expect anything from the obstinate tyrant , who would have damned himself a hundred times over to please his nephew . 
I was , on my return home , meditating upon this design , when fate , as if impatient to expedite my ruin , threw Synnelet in my way . 
He read in my countenance a portion of my thoughts . 
I before said , he was brave . 
Are you not seeking me ? he enquired . 
I know that my intentions have given you mortal offence , and that the death of one of us is indispensable let us see who is to be the happy man . 
I replied , that such was unquestionably the fact , and that nothing but death could end the difference between us . 
We retired about one hundred paces out of the town . 
We drew I wounded and disarmed him at the first onset . 
He was so enraged , that he peremptorily refused either to ask his life or renounce his claims to Manon . 
I might have been perhaps justified in ending both by a single blow but noble blood ever vindicates its origin . 
I threw him back his sword . 
Let us renew the struggle , said I to him , and remember that there shall be now no quarter . 
He attacked me with redoubled fury . 
I must confess that I was not an accomplished swordsman , having had but three months' tuition in Paris . 
Love , however , guided my weapon . 
Synnelet pierced me through and through the left arm but I caught him whilst thus engaged , and made so vigorous a thrust that I stretched him senseless at my feet . 
In spite of the triumphant feeling that victory , after a mortal conflict , inspires , I was immediately horrified by the certain consequences of his death . 
There could not be the slightest hope of either pardon or respite from the vengeance I had thus incurred . 
Urgent as this apprehension was , it still was by no means the principal source of my uneasiness . 
I regretted Synnelet's death instant suicide seemed the only remedy for my woes . 
However , it was this very thought that quickly restored me to my reason , and enabled me to form a resolution . 
I could not conceal from her the terrible accident that had happened . 
On my mentioning the death of Synnelet and my own wound , she fell in a state of insensibility into my arms . 
It was a quarter of an hour before I could bring her again to her senses . 
I was myself in a most deplorable state of mind I could not discern the slightest prospect of safety for either of us . 
Manon , said I to her , when she had recovered a little , what shall we do ? Alas , what hope remains to us ? I must necessarily fly . 
Although I had not formed any resolve as to our future destination , I still cherished a hope , without which I should have infinitely preferred death to my suspense about Manon's safety . 
I had acquired a sufficient knowledge of the country , during nearly ten months which I had now passed in America , to know in what manner the natives should be approached . 
Death was not the necessary consequence of falling into their hands . 
I had learned a few words of their language , and some of their customs , having had many opportunities of seeing them . 
Besides this sad resource , I derived some hopes from the fact , that the English had , like ourselves , established colonies in this part of the New World . 
But the distance was terrific . 
I nevertheless flattered myself that we might derive partial relief from one or other of these sources the savages might serve us as guides , and the English receive us in their settlements . 
Overpowered at length by fatigue , she acknowledged the utter impossibility of proceeding farther . 
It was already night we sat down in the midst of an extensive plain , where we could not even find a tree to shelter us . 
Her first care was to dress my wound , which she had bandaged before our departure . 
I allowed her therefore to gratify herself , and in shame and silence submitted to her delicate attentions . 
I protected her delicate hands from the cold by my burning kisses and the warmth of my sighs . 
I passed the livelong night in watching over her as she slept , and praying Heaven to refresh her with soft and undisturbed repose . 
You can bear witness , just and all seeing God I to the fervour and sincerity of those prayers , and Thou alone knowest with what awful rigour they were rejected . 
You will excuse me , if I now cut short a story which it distresses me beyond endurance to relate . 
It is , I believe , a calamity without parallel . 
I can never cease to deplore it . 
But although it continues , of course , deeply and indelibly impressed on my memory , yet my heart seems to shrink within me each time that I attempt the recital . 
We had thus tranquilly passed the night . 
I had fondly imagined that my beloved mistress was in a profound sleep , and I hardly dared to breathe lest I should disturb her . 
As day broke , I observed that her hands were cold and trembling I pressed them to my bosom in the hope of restoring animation . 
This movement roused her attention , and making an effort to grasp my hand , she said , in a feeble voice , that she thought her last moments had arrived . 
I , at first , took this for a passing weakness , or the ordinary language of distress and I answered with the usual consolations that love prompted . 
Do not now expect me to attempt a description of my feelings , or to repeat her dying expressions . 
I lost her I received the purest assurances of her love even at the very instant that her spirit fled . 
I have not nerve to say more upon this fatal and disastrous event . 
My spirit was not destined to accompany Manon's . 
Doubtless , Heaven did not as yet consider me sufficiently punished , and therefore ordained that I should continue to drag on a languid and joyless existence . 
I willingly renounced every hope of leading a happy one . 
I remained for twenty four hours without taking my lips from the still beauteous countenance and hands of my adored Manon . 
I then determined to bury her , and wait my own doom upon her grave . 
I was already , indeed , so near my end from the combined effect of long fasting and grief , that it was with the greatest difficulty I could support myself standing . 
I was obliged to have recourse to the liquors which I had brought with me , and these restored sufficient strength to enable me to set about my last sad office . 
From the sandy nature of the soil there was little trouble in opening the ground . 
I broke my sword and used it for the purpose but my bare hands were of greater service . 
I dug a deep grave , and there deposited the idol of my heart , after having wrapt around her my clothes to prevent the sand from touching her . 
I kissed her ten thousand times with all the ardour of the most glowing love , before I laid her in this melancholy bed . 
I sat for some time upon the bank intently gazing on her , and could not command fortitude enough to close the grave over her . 
You will find it difficult to believe that , during the whole time of this protracted and distressing ceremony , not a tear or a sigh escaped to relieve my agony . 
It was thus impossible for me , in this posture upon the grave , to continue for any time in possession of my faculties . 
After what you have listened to , the remainder of my own history would ill repay the attention you seem inclined to bestow upon it . 
Synnelet having been carried into the town and skilfully examined , it was found that , so far from being dead , he was not even dangerously wounded . 
He informed his uncle of the manner in which the affray had occurred between us , and he generously did justice to my conduct on the occasion . 
I was sent for and as neither of us could be found , our flight was immediately suspected . 
It was then too late to attempt to trace me , but the next day and the following one were employed in the pursuit . 
They carried me into the town . 
The motion restored me to my senses . 
I was immediately confined as a close prisoner . 
My trial was ordered and as Manon was not forthcoming , I was accused of having murdered her from rage and jealousy . 
I naturally related all that had occurred . 
Synnelet , though bitterly grieved and disappointed by what he heard , had the generosity to solicit my pardon he obtained it . 
I was so reduced , that they were obliged to carry me from the prison to my bed , and there I suffered for three long months under severe illness . 
My aversion from life knew no diminution . 
I continually prayed for death , and obstinately for some time refused every remedy . 
But Providence , after having punished me with atoning rigour , saw fit to turn to my own use its chastisements and the memory of my multiplied sorrows . 
It at length deigned to shed upon me its redeeming light , and revived in my mind ideas worthy of my birth and my early education . 
My tranquillity of mind being again restored , my cure speedily followed . 
I resolved to return to my native country , there to expiate the scandal of my former life by my future good conduct . 
Synnelet had the remains of my dear mistress removed into a more hallowed spot . 
I stood by whilst the passengers landed . 
Judge my surprise on recognising Tiberge amongst those who proceeded towards the town . 
This ever faithful friend knew me at a distance , in spite of the ravages which care and sorrow had worked upon my countenance . 
Malo which was weighing anchor for Martinique , he embarked , in the expectation of easily passing from thence to New Orleans that the St . 
I was totally unable adequately to express my feelings of gratitude to this generous and unshaken friend . 
I conducted him to my house , and placed all I possessed at his service . 
He declared to me , that this gladdening announcement more than repaid him for all the fatigue and trouble he had endured . 
On my arrival I wrote to my family . 
By a letter from my elder brother , I there learned my father's death , which , I dread to think , the disorders of my youth might have hastened . 
