The Project Gutenberg Etext of Les Miserables by Victor Hugo This file should be named lesms . 
zip Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER , lesms . 
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER , lesms a . 
This etext was created by Judith Boss , Omaha , Nebraska . 
The equipment an IBM compatible , a Hewlett Packard ScanJet IIc flatbed scanner , and a copy of Calera Recognition Systems' M Series Professional OCR software and RISC accelerator board donated by Calera . 
The Works of Victor Hugo Translated by Isabel F. Hapgood CONTENTS VOLUME I BOOK FIRST . 
A JUST MAN CHAPTER I. M. Myriel II . 
M. Myriel becomes M. Welcome III . 
A Hard Bishopric for a Good Bishop IV . 
Works corresponding to Words V. Monseigneur Bienvenu made his Cassocks last too long VI . 
Who guarded his House for him VII . 
The Brother as depicted by the Sister X. The Bishop in the Presence of an Unknown Light XI . 
The Solitude of Monseigneur Welcome XIII . 
What he thought BOOK SECOND . 
THE FALL I. The Evening of a Day of Walking II . 
Prudence counselled to Wisdom III . 
The Heroism of Passive Obedience IV . 
Details concerning the Cheese Dairies of Pontarlier V. Tranquillity VI . 
The Interior of Despair VIII . 
New Troubles X. The Man aroused XI . 
IN THE YEAR I. The Year II . 
Tholomyes is so Merry that he sings a Spanish Ditty V. At Bombardas VI . 
A Chapter in which they adore Each Other VII . 
The Wisdom of Tholomyes VIII . 
The Death of a Horse IX . 
A Merry End to Mirth BOOK FOURTH . 
TO CONFIDE IS SOMETIMES TO DELIVER INTO A PERSON'S POWER I. One Mother meets Another Mother II . 
First Sketch of Two Unprepossessing Figures III . 
THE DESCENT I. The History of a Progress in Black Glass Trinkets II . 
Sums deposited with Laffitte IV . 
M. Madeleine in Mourning V. Vague Flashes on the Horizon VI . 
Fauchelevent becomes a Gardener in Paris VIII . 
Madame Victurnien expends Thirty Francs on Morality IX . 
Madame Victurnien's Success X. Result of the Success XI . 
The Solution of Some Questions connected with the Municipal Police BOOK SIXTH . 
JAVERT I. The Beginning of Repose II . 
How Jean may become Champ BOOK SEVENTH . 
THE CHAMPMATHIEU AFFAIR I. Sister Simplice II . 
The Perspicacity of Master Scaufflaire III . 
A Tempest in a Skull IV . 
Forms assumed by Suffering during Sleep V. Hindrances VI . 
Sister Simplice put to the Proof VII . 
The Traveller on his Arrival takes Precautions for Departure VIII . 
An Entrance by Favor IX . 
A Place where Convictions are in Process of Formation X. The System of Denials XI . 
Champmathieu more and more Astonished BOOK EIGHTH . 
A COUNTER BLOW I. In what Mirror M. Madeleine contemplates his Hair II . 
Authority reasserts its Rights V. A Suitable Tomb VOLUME II BOOK FIRST . 
WATERLOO CHAPTER I. What is met with on the Way from Nivelles II . 
The Eighteenth of June , IV . 
A V. The Quid Obscurum of Battles VI . 
Four o'clock in the Afternoon VII . 
Napoleon in a Good Humor VIII . 
The Emperor puts a Question to the Guide Lacoste IX . 
The Unexpected X. The Plateau of Mont Saint Jean XI . 
A Bad Guide to Napoleon a Good Guide to Bulow XII . 
Quot Libras in Duce ? XVII . 
Is Waterloo to be considered Good ? XVIII . 
A Recrudescence of Divine Right XIX . 
The Battle Field at Night BOOK SECOND . 
THE SHIP ORION I. Number , becomes Number , II . 
In which the reader will peruse Two Verses which are of the Devil's Composition possibly III . 
The Ankle Chain must have undergone a Certain Preparatory Manipulation to be thus broken with a Blow from a Hammer BOOK THIRD . 
ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE PROMISE MADE TO THE DEAD WOMAN I. The Water Question at Montfermeil II . 
Men must have Wine , and Horses must have Water IV . 
Entrance on the Scene of a Doll V. The Little One All Alone VI . 
Which possibly proves Boulatruelle's Intelligence VII . 
Cosette Side by Side with the Stranger in the Dark VIII . 
The Unpleasantness of receiving into One's House a Poor Man who may be a Rich Man IX . 
Thenardier at his Manoeuvres X. He who seeks to better himself may render his Situation Worse XI . 
Number , reappears , and Cosette wins it in the Lottery BOOK FOURTH . 
THE GORBEAU HOVEL I. Master Gorbeau II . 
A Nest for Owl and a Warbler III . 
Two Misfortunes make One Piece of Good Fortune IV . 
The Remarks of the Principal Tenant V. A Five Franc Piece falls on the Ground and produces a Tumult BOOK FIFTH . 
FOR A BLACK HUNT , A MUTE PACK I. The Zigzags of Strategy II . 
It is Lucky that the Pont d'Austerlitz bears Carriages III . 
To Wit , the Plan of Paris in IV . 
The Gropings of Flight V. Which would be Impossible with Gas Lanterns VI . 
The Beginning of an Enigma VII . 
Continuation of the Enigma VIII . 
The Enigma becomes Doubly Mysterious IX . 
The Man with the Bell X. Which explains how Javert got on the Scent BOOK SIXTH . 
LE PETIT PICPUS I. Number Rue Petit Picpus II . 
The Obedience of Martin Verga III . 
Some Silhouettes of this Darkness VIII . 
A Century under a Guimpe X. Origin of the Perpetual Adoration XI . 
End of the Petit Picpus BOOK SEVENTH . 
PARENTHESIS I. The Convent as an Abstract Idea II . 
The Convent as an Historical Fact III . 
On What Conditions One can respect the Past IV . 
The Convent from the Point of View of Principles V. Prayer VI . 
The Absolute Goodness of Prayer VII . 
Precautions to be observed in Blame VIII . 
Faith , Law BOOK EIGHTH . 
CEMETERIES TAKE THAT WHICH IS COMMITTED THEM I. Which treats of the Manner of entering a Convent II . 
Fauchelevent in the Presence of a Difficulty III . 
In which Jean Valjean has quite the Air of having read Austin Castillejo V. It is not Necessary to be Drunk in order to be Immortal VI . 
In which will be found the Origin of the Saying Don't lose the Card VIII . 
Cloistered VOLUME III BOOK FIRST . 
PARIS STUDIED IN ITS ATOM I. Parvulus II . 
Some of his Particular Characteristics III . 
He may be of Use V. His Frontiers VI . 
A Bit of History VII . 
The Gamin should have his Place in the Classifications of India VIII . 
In which the Reader will find a Charming Saying of the Last King IX . 
The Old Soul of Gaul X. Ecce Paris , ecce Homo XI . 
To Scoff , to Reign XII . 
The Future Latent in the People XIII . 
THE GREAT BOURGEOIS I. Ninety Years and Thirty two Teeth II . 
Like Master , Like House III . 
A Centenarian Aspirant V. Basque and Nicolette VI . 
In which Magnon and her Two Children are seen VII . 
Rule Receive No One except in the Evening VIII . 
Two do not make a Pair BOOK THIRD . 
THE GRANDFATHER AND THE GRANDSON I. An Ancient Salon II . 
One of the Red Spectres of that Epoch III . 
End of the Brigand V. The Utility of going to Mass , in order to become a Revolutionist VI . 
The Consequences of having met a Warden VII . 
Marble against Granite BOOK FOURTH . 
THE FRIENDS OF THE ABC I. A Group which barely missed becoming Historic II . 
Blondeau's Funeral Oration by Bossuet III . 
The Back Room of the Cafe Musain V. Enlargement of Horizon VI . 
THE EXCELLENCE OF MISFORTUNE I. Marius Indigent II . 
M. Mabeuf V. Poverty a Good Neighbor for Misery VI . 
THE CONJUNCTION OF TWO STARS I. The Sobriquet Mode of Formation of Family Names II . 
Effect of the Spring IV . 
Beginning of a Great Malady V. Divers Claps of Thunder fall on Ma'am Bougon VI . 
Adventures of the Letter U delivered over to Conjectures VIII . 
The Veterans themselves can be Happy IX . 
PATRON MINETTE I. Mines and Miners II . 
Babet , Gueulemer , Claquesous , and Montparnasse IV . 
Composition of the Troupe BOOK EIGHTH . 
THE WICKED POOR MAN I. Marius , while seeking a Girl in a Bonnet encounters a Man in a Cap II . 
A Rose in Misery V. A Providential Peep Hole VI . 
The Wild Man in his Lair VII . 
The Ray of Light in the Hovel IX . 
Jondrette comes near Weeping X. Tariff of Licensed Cabs , Two Francs an Hour XI . 
Offers of Service from Misery to Wretchedness XII . 
The Use made of M. Leblanc's Five Franc Piece XIII . 
Solus cum Solo , in Loco Remoto , non cogitabuntur orare Pater Noster XIV . 
In which a Police Agent bestows Two Fistfuls on a Lawyer XV . 
Jondrette makes his Purchases XVI . 
In which will be found the Words to an English Air which was in Fashion in XVII . 
The Use made of Marius' Five Franc Piece XVIII . 
Marius' Two Chairs form a Vis a Vis XIX . 
Occupying One's Self with Obscure Depths XX . 
One should always begin by arresting the Victims XXII . 
The Little One who was crying in Volume Two VOLUME IV BOOK FIRST . 
A FEW PAGES OF HISTORY I. Well Cut II . 
Cracks beneath the Foundation V. Facts whence History springs and which History ignores VI . 
Enjolras and his Lieutenants BOOK SECOND . 
EPONINE I. The Lark's Meadow II . 
Embryonic Formation of Crimes in the Incubation of Prisons III . 
Apparition to Father Mabeuf IV . 
An Apparition to Marius BOOK THIRD . 
THE HOUSE IN THE RUE PLUMET I. The House with a Secret II . 
Jean Valjean as a National Guard III . 
Change of Gate V. The Rose perceives that it is an Engine of War VI . 
To One Sadness oppose a Sadness and a Half VIII . 
The Chain Gang BOOK FOURTH . 
SUCCOR FROM BELOW MAY TURN OUT TO BE SUCCOR FROM ON HIGH I. A Wound without , Healing within II . 
Mother Plutarque finds no Difficulty in explaining a Phenomenon BOOK FIFTH . 
THE END OF WHICH DOES NOT RESEMBLE THE BEGINNING I. Solitude and Barracks Combined II . 
Enriched with Commentaries by Toussaint IV . 
A Heart beneath a Stone V. Cosette after the Letter VI . 
Old People are made to go out opportunely BOOK SIXTH . 
LITTLE GAVROCHE I. The Malicious Playfulness of the Wind II . 
In which Little Gavroche extracts Profit from Napoleon the Great III . 
The Vicissitudes of Flight BOOK SEVENTH . 
Slang which weeps and Slang which laughs IV . 
The Two Duties To Watch and to Hope BOOK EIGHTH . 
ENCHANTMENTS AND DESOLATIONS I. Full Light II . 
The Bewilderment of Perfect Happiness III . 
The Beginning of Shadow IV . 
A Cab runs in English and barks in Slang V. Things of the Night VI . 
Marius becomes Practical once more to the Extent of Giving Cosette his Address VII . 
The Old Heart and the Young Heart in the Presence of Each Other BOOK NINTH . 
WHITHER ARE THEY GOING ? I. Jean Valjean II . 
THE TH OF JUNE , I. The Surface of the Question II . 
The Root of the Matter III . 
A Burial an Occasion to be born again IV . 
The Ebullitions of Former Days V. Originality of Paris BOOK ELEVENTH . 
THE ATOM FRATERNIZES WITH THE HURRICANE I. Some Explanations with Regard to the Origin of Gavroche's Poetry . 
The Influence of an Academician on this Poetry II . 
Gavroche on the March III . 
Just Indignation of a Hair dresser IV . 
The Child is amazed at the Old Man V. The Old Man VI . 
CORINTHE I. History of Corinthe from its Foundation II . 
Night begins to descend upon Grantaire IV . 
An Attempt to console the Widow Hucheloup V. Preparations VI . 
The Man recruited in the Rue des Billettes VIII . 
Many Interrogation Points with Regard to a Certain Le Cabuc , whose Name may not have been Le Cabuc BOOK THIRTEENTH . 
MARIUS ENTERS THE SHADOW I. From the Rue Plumet to the Quartier Saint Denis II . 
An Owl's View of Paris III . 
The Extreme Edge BOOK FOURTEENTH . 
THE GRANDEURS OF DESPAIR I. The Flag Act First II . 
The Flag Act Second III . 
Gavroche would have done better to accept Enjolras' Carbine IV . 
The Barrel of Powder V. End of the Verses of Jean Prouvaire VI . 
The Agony of Death after the Agony of Life VII . 
Gavroche as a Profound Calculator of Distances BOOK FIFTEENTH . 
THE RUE DE L'HOMME ARME I. A Drinker is a Babbler II . 
The Street Urchin an Enemy of Light III . 
While Cosette and Toussaint are Asleep IV . 
Gavroche's Excess of Zeal VOLUME V BOOK FIRST . 
THE WAR BETWEEN FOUR WALLS I. The Charybdis of the Faubourg Saint Antoine and the Scylla of the Faubourg du Temple II . 
What Is to Be Done in the Abyss if One Does Not Converse III . 
Minus Five , Plus One V. The Horizon Which One Beholds from the Summit of a Barricade VI . 
Marius Haggard , Javert Laconic VII . 
The Situation Becomes Aggravated VIII . 
The Artillery men Compel People to Take Them Seriously IX . 
Employment of the Old Talents of a Poacher and That Infallible Marksmanship Which Influenced the Condemnation of X. Dawn XI . 
The Shot Which Misses Nothing and Kills No One XII . 
Disorder a Partisan of Order XIII . 
Wherein Will Appear the Name of Enjolras' Mistress XV . 
How from a Brother One Becomes a Father XVII . 
Mortuus Pater Filium Moriturum Expectat XVIII . 
The Vulture Becomes Prey XIX . 
Jean Valjean Takes His Revenge XX . 
The Dead Are in the Right and the Living Are Not in the Wrong XXI . 
Orestes Fasting and Pylades Drunk XXIV . 
THE INTESTINE OF THE LEVIATHAN I. The Land Impoverished by the Sea II . 
Ancient History of the Sewer III . 
MUD BUT THE SOUL I. The Sewer and Its Surprises II . 
He Also Bears His Cross V. In the Case of Sand , as in That of Woman , There Is a Fineness Which Is Treacherous VI . 
One Sometimes Runs Aground When One Fancies That One Is Disembarking VIII . 
The Torn Coat Tail IX . 
Marius Produces on Some One Who Is a Judge of the Matter , the Effect of Being Dead X. Return of the Son Who Was Prodigal of His Life XI . 
Concussion in the Absolute XII . 
JAVERT DERAILED I. BOOK FIFTH . 
GRANDSON AND GRANDFATHER I. In Which the Tree with the Zinc Plaster Appears Again II . 
Marius , Emerging from Civil War , Makes Ready for Domestic War III . 
The Two Old Men Do Everything , Each One After His Own Fashion , to Render Cosette Happy VII . 
The Effects of Dreams Mingled with Happiness VIII . 
Two Men Impossible to Find BOOK SIXTH . 
THE SLEEPLESS NIGHT I. The th of February , II . 
Jean Valjean Still Wears His Arm in a Sling III . 
The Immortal Liver BOOK SEVENTH . 
THE LAST DRAUGHT FROM THE CUP I. The Seventh Circle and the Eighth Heaven II . 
The Obscurities Which a Revelation Can Contain BOOK EIGHTH . 
FADING AWAY OF THE TWILIGHT I. The Lower Chamber II . 
They Recall the Garden of the Rue Plumet IV . 
Attraction and Extinction BOOK NINTH . 
SUPREME SHADOW , SUPREME DAWN I. Pity for the Unhappy , but Indulgence for the Happy II . 
Last Flickerings of a Lamp Without Oil III . 
A Pen Is Heavy to the Man Who Lifted the Fauchelevent's Cart IV . 
A Bottle of Ink Which Only Succeeded in Whitening V. A Night Behind Which There Is Day VI . 
The Grass Covers and the Rain Effaces Les Miserables VOLUME I. FANTINE . 
True or false , that which is said of men often occupies as important a place in their lives , and above all in their destinies , as that which they do . 
M. Myriel was the son of a councillor of the Parliament of Aix hence he belonged to the nobility of the bar . 
In spite of this marriage , however , it was said that Charles Myriel created a great deal of talk . 
The Revolution came events succeeded each other with precipitation the parliamentary families , decimated , pursued , hunted down , were dispersed . 
M. Charles Myriel emigrated to Italy at the very beginning of the Revolution . 
There his wife died of a malady of the chest , from which she had long suffered . 
In , M. Myriel was the Cure of B Brignolles . 
He was already advanced in years , and lived in a very retired manner . 
About the epoch of the coronation , some petty affair connected with his curacy just what , is not precisely known took him to Paris . 
Among other powerful persons to whom he went to solicit aid for his parishioners was M. le Cardinal Fesch . 
One day , when the Emperor had come to visit his uncle , the worthy Cure , who was waiting in the anteroom , found himself present when His Majesty passed . 
Each of us can profit by it . 
Very few families had been acquainted with the Myriel family before the Revolution . 
M. Myriel had to undergo the fate of every newcomer in a little town , where there are many mouths which talk , and very few heads which think . 
He was obliged to undergo it although he was a bishop , and because he was a bishop . 
No one would have dared to mention them no one would have dared to recall them . 
M. Myriel had arrived at D accompanied by an elderly spinster , Mademoiselle Baptistine , who was his sister , and ten years his junior . 
What had been leanness in her youth had become transparency in her maturity and this diaphaneity allowed the angel to be seen . 
She was a soul rather than a virgin . 
On his arrival , M. Myriel was installed in the episcopal palace with the honors required by the Imperial decrees , which class a bishop immediately after a major general . 
The mayor and the president paid the first call on him , and he , in turn , paid the first call on the general and the prefect . 
The installation over , the town waited to see its bishop at work . 
CHAPTER II M. MYRIEL BECOMES M. WELCOME The episcopal palace of D adjoins the hospital . 
This palace was a genuine seignorial residence . 
The hospital was a low and narrow building of a single story , with a small garden . 
Three days after his arrival , the Bishop visited the hospital . 
The visit ended , he had the director requested to be so good as to come to his house . 
Monsieur the director of the hospital , said he to him , how many sick people have you at the present moment ? Twenty six , Monseigneur . 
That was the number which I counted , said the Bishop . 
The beds , pursued the director , are very much crowded against each other . 
That is what I observed . 
The halls are nothing but rooms , and it is with difficulty that the air can be changed in them . 
So it seems to me . 
And then , when there is a ray of sun , the garden is very small for the convalescents . 
That was what I said to myself . 
That is the thought which occurred to me . 
What would you have , Monseigneur ? said the director . 
One must resign one's self . 
This conversation took place in the gallery dining room on the ground floor . 
The Bishop remained silent for a moment then he turned abruptly to the director of the hospital . 
Monsieur , said he , how many beds do you think this hall alone would hold ? Monseigneur's dining room ? exclaimed the stupefied director . 
The Bishop cast a glance round the apartment , and seemed to be taking measures and calculations with his eyes . 
It would hold full twenty beds , said he , as though speaking to himself . 
Then , raising his voice Hold , Monsieur the director of the hospital , I will tell you something . 
There is evidently a mistake here . 
There are thirty six of you , in five or six small rooms . 
There are three of us here , and we have room for sixty . 
There is some mistake , I tell you you have my house , and I have yours . 
Give me back my house you are at home here . 
On the following day the thirty six patients were installed in the Bishop's palace , and the Bishop was settled in the hospital . 
M. Myriel had no property , his family having been ruined by the Revolution . 
His sister was in receipt of a yearly income of five hundred francs , which sufficed for her personal wants at the vicarage . 
M. Myriel received from the State , in his quality of bishop , a salary of fifteen thousand francs . 
On the very day when he took up his abode in the hospital , M. Myriel settled on the disposition of this sum once for all , in the following manner . 
We transcribe here a note made by his own hand NOTE ON THE REGULATION OF MY HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES . 
, livres Society of the mission . 
For the Lazarists of Montdidier . 
Seminary for foreign missions in Paris . 
Congregation of the Holy Spirit . 
Religious establishments of the Holy Land . 
Extra , for that of Arles . 
Work for the amelioration of prisons . 
Work for the relief and delivery of prisoners . 
To liberate fathers of families incarcerated for debt , Addition to the salary of the poor teachers of the diocese . 
, Public granary of the Hautes Alpes . 
Congregation of the ladies of D , of Manosque , and of Sisteron , for the gratuitous instruction of poor girls . 
, M. Myriel made no change in this arrangement during the entire period that he occupied the see of D As has been seen , he called it regulating his household expenses . 
This arrangement was accepted with absolute submission by Mademoiselle Baptistine . 
This holy woman regarded Monseigneur of D as at one and the same time her brother and her bishop , her friend according to the flesh and her superior according to the Church . 
She simply loved and venerated him . 
When he spoke , she bowed when he acted , she yielded her adherence . 
Their only servant , Madame Magloire , grumbled a little . 
It will be observed that Monsieur the Bishop had reserved for himself only one thousand livres , which , added to the pension of Mademoiselle Baptistine , made fifteen hundred francs a year . 
On these fifteen hundred francs these two old women and the old man subsisted . 
Monseigneur has not even claimed the allowance which the department owes him for the expense of his carriage in town , and for his journeys about the diocese . 
It was customary for bishops in former days . 
Hold ! cried the Bishop , you are quite right , Madame Magloire . 
And he made his demand . 
No one travels otherwise than on horseback . 
Even the bridge between Durance and Chateau Arnoux can barely support ox teams . 
These priests are all thus , greedy and avaricious . 
This man played the good priest when he first came . 
Now he does like the rest he must have a carriage and a posting chaise , he must have luxuries , like the bishops of the olden days . 
Oh , all this priesthood ! Things will not go well , M. le Comte , until the Emperor has freed us from these black capped rascals . 
Down with the Pope ! Matters were getting embroiled with Rome . 
For my part , I am for Caesar alone . 
On the other hand , this affair afforded great delight to Madame Magloire . 
Good , said she to Mademoiselle Baptistine Monseigneur began with other people , but he has had to wind up with himself , after all . 
He has regulated all his charities . 
For furnishing meat soup to the patients in the hospital . 
, livres For the maternity charitable society of Aix . 
For the maternity charitable society of Draguignan . 
, Such was M. Myriel's budget . 
As for the chance episcopal perquisites , the fees for marriage bans , dispensations , private baptisms , sermons , benedictions , of churches or chapels , marriages , etc . 
, the Bishop levied them on the wealthy with all the more asperity , since he bestowed them on the needy . 
After a time , offerings of money flowed in . 
Those who had and those who lacked knocked at M. Myriel's door , the latter in search of the alms which the former came to deposit . 
In less than a year the Bishop had become the treasurer of all benevolence and the cashier of all those in distress . 
Considerable sums of money passed through his hands , but nothing could induce him to make any change whatever in his mode of life , or add anything superfluous to his bare necessities . 
As there is always more wretchedness below than there is brotherhood above , all was given away , so to speak , before it was received . 
It was like water on dry soil no matter how much money he received , he never had any . 
We will follow their example , and will also call him thus when we have occasion to name him . 
Moreover , this appellation pleased him . 
I like that name , said he . 
Bienvenu makes up for the Monseigneur . 
We do not claim that the portrait herewith presented is probable we confine ourselves to stating that it resembles the original . 
CHAPTER III A HARD BISHOPRIC FOR A GOOD BISHOP The Bishop did not omit his pastoral visits because he had converted his carriage into alms . 
The diocese of D is a fatiguing one . 
To visit all these is quite a task . 
The Bishop managed to do it . 
He went on foot when it was in the neighborhood , in a tilted spring cart when it was on the plain , and on a donkey in the mountains . 
The two old women accompanied him . 
When the trip was too hard for them , he went alone . 
One day he arrived at Senez , which is an ancient episcopal city . 
He was mounted on an ass . 
His purse , which was very dry at that moment , did not permit him any other equipage . 
The mayor of the town came to receive him at the gate of the town , and watched him dismount from his ass , with scandalized eyes . 
Some of the citizens were laughing around him . 
Monsieur the Mayor , said the Bishop , and Messieurs Citizens , I perceive that I shock you . 
You think it very arrogant in a poor priest to ride an animal which was used by Jesus Christ . 
I have done so from necessity , I assure you , and not from vanity . 
In the course of these trips he was kind and indulgent , and talked rather than preached . 
He never went far in search of his arguments and his examples . 
He quoted to the inhabitants of one district the example of a neighboring district . 
They rebuild their houses for them gratuitously when they are ruined . 
Therefore it is a country which is blessed by God . 
For a whole century , there has not been a single murderer among them . 
To families divided by questions of money and inheritance he said Look at the mountaineers of Devolny , a country so wild that the nightingale is not heard there once in fifty years . 
Well , when the father of a family dies , the boys go off to seek their fortunes , leaving the property to the girls , so that they may find husbands . 
Mon Dieu ! it is like a little republic . 
Neither judge nor bailiff is known there . 
To villages where he found no schoolmaster , he quoted once more the people of Queyras Do you know how they manage ? he said . 
These teachers go to the fairs . 
I have seen them there . 
They are to be recognized by the quill pens which they wear in the cord of their hat . 
Those who teach reading only have one pen those who teach reading and reckoning have two pens those who teach reading , reckoning , and Latin have three pens . 
And being convinced himself , he was persuasive . 
CHAPTER IV WORKS CORRESPONDING TO WORDS His conversation was gay and affable . 
He put himself on a level with the two old women who had passed their lives beside him . 
When he laughed , it was the laugh of a schoolboy . 
Madame Magloire liked to call him Your Grace Votre Grandeur . 
One day he rose from his arm chair , and went to his library in search of a book . 
This book was on one of the upper shelves . 
As the bishop was rather short of stature , he could not reach it . 
Madame Magloire , said he , fetch me a chair . 
My greatness grandeur does not reach as far as that shelf . 
She had numerous relatives , who were very old and near to death , and of whom her sons were the natural heirs . 
The Bishop was accustomed to listen in silence to these innocent and pardonable maternal boasts . 
On one occasion , however , he appeared to be more thoughtful than usual , while Madame de Lo was relating once again the details of all these inheritances and all these expectations . 
Augustine , Place your hopes in the man from whom you do not inherit . 
In the course of one Lent , a youthful vicar came to D , and preached in the cathedral . 
The subject of his sermon was charity . 
Never in his whole life had M. Geborand bestowed alms on any poor wretch . 
After the delivery of that sermon , it was observed that he gave a sou every Sunday to the poor old beggar women at the door of the cathedral . 
There were six of them to share it . 
When it was a question of charity , he was not to be rebuffed even by a refusal , and on such occasions he gave utterance to remarks which induced reflection . 
This variety of man has actually existed . 
When the Bishop came to him , he touched his arm , You must give me something , M. le Marquis . 
The Marquis turned round and answered dryly , I have poor people of my own , Monseigneur . 
Give them to me , replied the Bishop . 
And this arises from a thing which is called the tax on doors and windows . 
I do not blame the law , but I bless God . 
That is the state of affairs throughout the whole of the hilly country of Dauphine . 
They make bread for six months at one time they bake it with dried cow dung . 
In the winter they break this bread up with an axe , and they soak it for twenty four hours , in order to render it eatable . 
My brethren , have pity ! behold the suffering on all sides of you ! Born a Provencal , he easily familiarized himself with the dialect of the south . 
This pleased the people extremely , and contributed not a little to win him access to all spirits . 
He was perfectly at home in the thatched cottage and in the mountains . 
He understood how to say the grandest things in the most vulgar of idioms . 
As he spoke all tongues , he entered into all hearts . 
Moreover , he was the same towards people of the world and towards the lower classes . 
He condemned nothing in haste and without taking circumstances into account . 
He said , Examine the road over which the fault has passed . 
He drags it with him and yields to it . 
He must watch it , cheek it , repress it , and obey it only at the last extremity . 
There may be some fault even in this obedience but the fault thus committed is venial it is a fall , but a fall on the knees which may terminate in prayer . 
To be a saint is the exception to be an upright man is the rule . 
Err , fall , sin if you will , but be upright . 
The least possible sin is the law of man . 
No sin at all is the dream of the angel . 
All which is terrestrial is subject to sin . 
These are hypocrisies which have taken fright , and are in haste to make protest and to put themselves under shelter . 
He was indulgent towards women and poor people , on whom the burden of human society rest . 
This soul is full of shadow sin is therein committed . 
The guilty one is not the person who has committed the sin , but the person who has created the shadow . 
It will be perceived that he had a peculiar manner of his own of judging things I suspect that he obtained it from the Gospel . 
One day he heard a criminal case , which was in preparation and on the point of trial , discussed in a drawing room . 
Counterfeiting was still punishable with death at that epoch . 
The woman had been arrested in the act of passing the first false piece made by the man . 
She was held , but there were no proofs except against her . 
She alone could accuse her lover , and destroy him by her confession . 
She persisted in her denial . 
Thereupon an idea occurred to the attorney for the crown . 
Thereupon , exasperated by jealousy , she denounced her lover , confessed all , proved all . 
He was shortly to be tried at Aix with his accomplice . 
They were relating the matter , and each one was expressing enthusiasm over the cleverness of the magistrate . 
By bringing jealousy into play , he had caused the truth to burst forth in wrath , he had educed the justice of revenge . 
The Bishop listened to all this in silence . 
When they had finished , he inquired , Where are this man and woman to be tried ? At the Court of Assizes . 
He went on , And where will the advocate of the crown be tried ? A tragic event occurred at D A man was condemned to death for murder . 
He was a wretched fellow , not exactly educated , not exactly ignorant , who had been a mountebank at fairs , and a writer for the public . 
The town took a great interest in the trial . 
On the eve of the day fixed for the execution of the condemned man , the chaplain of the prison fell ill . 
A priest was needed to attend the criminal in his last moments . 
They sent for the cure . 
It seems that he refused to come , saying , That is no affair of mine . 
I have nothing to do with that unpleasant task , and with that mountebank I , too , am ill and besides , it is not my place . 
This reply was reported to the Bishop , who said , Monsieur le Cure is right it is not his place it is mine . 
He went instantly to the prison , descended to the cell of the mountebank , called him by name , took him by the hand , and spoke to him . 
He passed the entire day with him , forgetful of food and sleep , praying to God for the soul of the condemned man , and praying the condemned man for his own . 
He told him the best truths , which are also the most simple . 
He was father , brother , friend he was bishop only to bless . 
He taught him everything , encouraged and consoled him . 
The man was on the point of dying in despair . 
Death was an abyss to him . 
As he stood trembling on its mournful brink , he recoiled with horror . 
He was not sufficiently ignorant to be absolutely indifferent . 
He gazed incessantly beyond this world through these fatal breaches , and beheld only darkness . 
The Bishop made him see light . 
On the following day , when they came to fetch the unhappy wretch , the Bishop was still there . 
He mounted the tumbril with him , he mounted the scaffold with him . 
The sufferer , who had been so gloomy and cast down on the preceding day , was radiant . 
He felt that his soul was reconciled , and he hoped in God . 
Pray , believe , enter into life the Father is there . 
When he descended from the scaffold , there was something in his look which made the people draw aside to let him pass . 
They did not know which was most worthy of admiration , his pallor or his serenity . 
On his return to the humble dwelling , which he designated , with a smile , as his palace , he said to his sister , I have just officiated pontifically . 
This , however , was a remark which was confined to the drawing rooms . 
The populace , which perceives no jest in holy deeds , was touched , and admired him . 
As for the Bishop , it was a shock to him to have beheld the guillotine , and it was a long time before he recovered from it . 
In fact , when the scaffold is there , all erected and prepared , it has something about it which produces hallucination . 
Some admire it , like de Maistre others execrate it , like Beccaria . 
The guillotine is the concretion of the law it is called vindicte it is not neutral , and it does not permit you to remain neutral . 
He who sees it shivers with the most mysterious of shivers . 
All social problems erect their interrogation point around this chopping knife . 
The scaffold is a vision . 
The scaffold is not a piece of carpentry the scaffold is not a machine the scaffold is not an inert bit of mechanism constructed of wood , iron and cords . 
In the frightful meditation into which its presence casts the soul the scaffold appears in terrible guise , and as though taking part in what is going on . 
Therefore , the impression was terrible and profound on the day following the execution , and on many succeeding days , the Bishop appeared to be crushed . 
The almost violent serenity of the funereal moment had disappeared the phantom of social justice tormented him . 
He , who generally returned from all his deeds with a radiant satisfaction , seemed to be reproaching himself . 
At times he talked to himself , and stammered lugubrious monologues in a low voice . 
This is one which his sister overheard one evening and preserved I did not think that it was so monstrous . 
It is wrong to become absorbed in the divine law to such a degree as not to perceive human law . 
Death belongs to God alone . 
By what right do men touch that unknown thing ? In course of time these impressions weakened and probably vanished . 
Nevertheless , it was observed that the Bishop thenceforth avoided passing the place of execution . 
M. Myriel could be summoned at any hour to the bedside of the sick and dying . 
He did not ignore the fact that therein lay his greatest duty and his greatest labor . 
Widowed and orphaned families had no need to summon him he came of his own accord . 
He understood how to sit down and hold his peace for long hours beside the man who had lost the wife of his love , of the mother who had lost her child . 
As he knew the moment for silence he knew also the moment for speech . 
Oh , admirable consoler ! He sought not to efface sorrow by forgetfulness , but to magnify and dignify it by hope . 
He said Have a care of the manner in which you turn towards the dead . 
Think not of that which perishes . 
You will perceive the living light of your well beloved dead in the depths of heaven . 
He knew that faith is wholesome . 
CHAPTER V MONSEIGNEUR BIENVENU MADE HIS CASSOCKS LAST TOO LONG The private life of M. Myriel was filled with the same thoughts as his public life . 
The voluntary poverty in which the Bishop of D lived , would have been a solemn and charming sight for any one who could have viewed it close at hand . 
Like all old men , and like the majority of thinkers , he slept little . 
This brief slumber was profound . 
In the morning he meditated for an hour , then he said his mass , either at the cathedral or in his own house . 
His mass said , he broke his fast on rye bread dipped in the milk of his own cows . 
Then he set to work . 
A Bishop is a very busy man he must every day receive the secretary of the bishopric , who is generally a canon , and nearly every day his vicars general . 
He has congregations to reprove , privileges to grant , a whole ecclesiastical library to examine , prayer books , diocesan catechisms , books of hours , etc . 
Sometimes he dug in his garden again , he read or wrote . 
He had but one word for both these kinds of toil he called them gardening . 
The mind is a garden , said he . 
Towards mid day , when the weather was fine , he went forth and took a stroll in the country or in town , often entering lowly dwellings . 
It was a perfect festival wherever he appeared . 
One would have said that his presence had something warming and luminous about it . 
The children and the old people came out to the doorsteps for the Bishop as for the sun . 
He bestowed his blessing , and they blessed him . 
They pointed out his house to any one who was in need of anything . 
Here and there he halted , accosted the little boys and girls , and smiled upon the mothers . 
He visited the poor so long as he had any money when he no longer had any , he visited the rich . 
As he made his cassocks last a long while , and did not wish to have it noticed , he never went out in the town without his wadded purple cloak . 
This inconvenienced him somewhat in summer . 
On his return , he dined . 
The dinner resembled his breakfast . 
At half past eight in the evening he supped with his sister , Madame Magloire standing behind them and serving them at table . 
Nothing could be more frugal than this repast . 
Every cure furnished the pretext for a good meal the Bishop did not interfere . 
With that exception , his ordinary diet consisted only of vegetables boiled in water , and oil soup . 
Thus it was said in the town , when the Bishop does not indulge in the cheer of a cure , he indulges in the cheer of a trappist . 
He was a man of letters and rather learned . 
He left behind him five or six very curious manuscripts among others , a dissertation on this verse in Genesis , In the beginning , the spirit of God floated upon the waters . 
These lines have often no connection whatever with the book which contains them . 
Versailles , Poincot , book seller and Paris , Pissot , bookseller , Quai des Augustins . 
Toward nine o'clock in the evening the two women retired and betook themselves to their chambers on the first floor , leaving him alone until morning on the ground floor . 
Behind the house was a garden , a quarter of an acre in extent . 
The two women occupied the first floor the Bishop was lodged below . 
The first room , opening on the street , served him as dining room , the second was his bedroom , and the third his oratory . 
There was no exit possible from this oratory , except by passing through the bedroom , nor from the bedroom , without passing through the dining room . 
At the end of the suite , in the oratory , there was a detached alcove with a bed , for use in cases of hospitality . 
In addition to this , there was in the garden a stable , which had formerly been the kitchen of the hospital , and in which the Bishop kept two cows . 
No matter what the quantity of milk they gave , he invariably sent half of it every morning to the sick people in the hospital . 
I am paying my tithes , he said . 
His bedroom was tolerably large , and rather difficult to warm in bad weather . 
As wood is extremely dear at D , he hit upon the idea of having a compartment of boards constructed in the cow shed . 
Here he passed his evenings during seasons of severe cold he called it his winter salon . 
In this winter salon , as in the dining room , there was no other furniture than a square table in white wood , and four straw seated chairs . 
In addition to this the dining room was ornamented with an antique sideboard , painted pink , in water colors . 
Out of a similar sideboard , properly draped with white napery and imitation lace , the Bishop had constructed the altar which decorated his oratory . 
The most beautiful of altars , he said , is the soul of an unhappy creature consoled and thanking God . 
In his oratory there were two straw prie Dieu , and there was an arm chair , also in straw , in his bedroom . 
A room was dismantled for each new guest . 
However , who is there who has attained his ideal ? Nothing is more easy to present to the imagination than the Bishop's bedchamber . 
The bookcase was a large cupboard with glass doors filled with books the chimney was of wood painted to represent marble , and habitually without fire . 
Two portraits in oval frames were fastened to the wall on each side of the bed . 
When the Bishop succeeded to this apartment , after the hospital patients , he had found these portraits there , and had left them . 
They were priests , and probably donors two reasons for respecting them . 
This seam took the form of a cross . 
The Bishop often called attention to it How delightful that is ! he said . 
Before becoming a hospital , this house had been the ancient parliament house of the Bourgeois . 
The chambers were paved in red bricks , which were washed every week , with straw mats in front of all the beds . 
Altogether , this dwelling , which was attended to by the two women , was exquisitely clean from top to bottom . 
This was the sole luxury which the Bishop permitted . 
He said , That takes nothing from the poor . 
To this silverware must be added two large candlesticks of massive silver , which he had inherited from a great aunt . 
These candlesticks held two wax candles , and usually figured on the Bishop's chimney piece . 
When he had any one to dinner , Madame Magloire lighted the two candles and set the candlesticks on the table . 
But it is necessary to add , that the key was never removed . 
The garden , which had been rather spoiled by the ugly buildings which we have mentioned , was composed of four alleys in cross form , radiating from a tank . 
Another walk made the circuit of the garden , and skirted the white wall which enclosed it . 
These alleys left behind them four square plots rimmed with box . 
In three of these , Madame Magloire cultivated vegetables in the fourth , the Bishop had planted some flowers here and there stood a few fruit trees . 
Madame Magloire had once remarked , with a sort of gentle malice Monseigneur , you who turn everything to account , have , nevertheless , one useless plot . 
It would be better to grow salads there than bouquets . 
Madame Magloire , retorted the Bishop , you are mistaken . 
The beautiful is as useful as the useful . 
He added after a pause , More so , perhaps . 
This plot , consisting of three or four beds , occupied the Bishop almost as much as did his books . 
He liked to pass an hour or two there , trimming , hoeing , and making holes here and there in the earth , into which he dropped seeds . 
He was not as hostile to insects as a gardener could have wished to see him . 
He did not study plants he loved flowers . 
The house had not a single door which could be locked . 
The Bishop had had all this ironwork removed , and this door was never fastened , either by night or by day , with anything except the latch . 
All that the first passerby had to do at any hour , was to give it a push . 
They had ended by sharing his confidence , or by at least acting as though they shared it . 
Madame Magloire alone had frights from time to time . 
Again he wrote Do not inquire the name of him who asks a shelter of you . 
The very man who is embarrassed by his name is the one who needs shelter . 
Then he spoke of something else . 
He was fond of saying , There is a bravery of the priest as well as the bravery of a colonel of dragoons , only , he added , ours must be tranquil . 
After the destruction of the band of Gaspard Bes , who had infested the gorges of Ollioules , one of his lieutenants , Cravatte , took refuge in the mountains . 
He was first seen at Jauziers , then at Tuiles . 
He hid himself in the caverns of the Joug de l'Aigle , and thence he descended towards the hamlets and villages through the ravines of Ubaye and Ubayette . 
He even pushed as far as Embrun , entered the cathedral one night , and despoiled the sacristy . 
His highway robberies laid waste the country side . 
The gendarmes were set on his track , but in vain . 
He always escaped sometimes he resisted by main force . 
He was a bold wretch . 
In the midst of all this terror the Bishop arrived . 
He was making his circuit to Chastelar . 
The mayor came to meet him , and urged him to retrace his steps . 
Cravatte was in possession of the mountains as far as Arche , and beyond there was danger even with an escort it merely exposed three or four unfortunate gendarmes to no purpose . 
Therefore , said the Bishop , I intend to go without escort . 
You do not really mean that , Monseigneur ! exclaimed the mayor . 
I do mean it so thoroughly that I absolutely refuse any gendarmes , and shall set out in an hour . 
Set out ? Set out . 
They are my good friends , those gentle and honest shepherds . 
They own one goat out of every thirty that they tend . 
They make very pretty woollen cords of various colors , and they play the mountain airs on little flutes with six holes . 
They need to be told of the good God now and then . 
They , too , need to be told of the good God . 
Who knows the ways of Providence ? They will rob you , Monseigneur . 
Do not go , Monseigneur . 
They had to allow him to do as he pleased . 
He set out , accompanied only by a child who offered to serve as a guide . 
His obstinacy was bruited about the country side , and caused great consternation . 
He would take neither his sister nor Madame Magloire . 
He traversed the mountain on mule back , encountered no one , and arrived safe and sound at the residence of his good friends , the shepherds . 
He remained there for a fortnight , preaching , administering the sacrament , teaching , exhorting . 
When the time of his departure approached , he resolved to chant a Te Deum pontifically . 
He mentioned it to the cure . 
But what was to be done ? There were no episcopal ornaments . 
They could only place at his disposal a wretched village sacristy , with a few ancient chasubles of threadbare damask adorned with imitation lace . 
Bah ! said the Bishop . 
Let us announce our Te Deum from the pulpit , nevertheless , Monsieur le Cure . 
They instituted a search in the churches of the neighborhood . 
All the magnificence of these humble parishes combined would not have sufficed to clothe the chorister of a cathedral properly . 
While they were thus embarrassed , a large chest was brought and deposited in the presbytery for the Bishop , by two unknown horsemen , who departed on the instant . 
In the chest was a paper , on which these words were written , From Cravatte to Monseigneur Bienvenu . 
Did not I say that things would come right of themselves ? said the Bishop . 
Then he added , with a smile , To him who contents himself with the surplice of a curate , God sends the cope of an archbishop . 
Monseigneur , murmured the cure , throwing back his head with a smile . 
I set out bearing only my faith in God I have brought back the treasure of a cathedral . 
That evening , before he went to bed , he said again Let us never fear robbers nor murderers . 
Those are dangers from without , petty dangers . 
Prejudices are the real robbers vices are the real murderers . 
The great dangers lie within ourselves . 
What matters it what threatens our head or our purse ! Let us think only of that which threatens our soul . 
Then , turning to his sister Sister , never a precaution on the part of the priest , against his fellow man . 
That which his fellow does , God permits . 
Let us confine ourselves to prayer , when we think that a danger is approaching us . 
Let us pray , not for ourselves , but that our brother may not fall into sin on our account . 
However , such incidents were rare in his life . 
We relate those of which we know but generally he passed his life in doing the same things at the same moment . 
One month of his year resembled one hour of his day . 
As to what became of the treasure of the cathedral of Embrun , we should be embarrassed by any inquiry in that direction . 
It consisted of very handsome things , very tempting things , and things which were very well adapted to be stolen for the benefit of the unfortunate . 
Stolen they had already been elsewhere . 
Half of the adventure was completed it only remained to impart a new direction to the theft , and to cause it to take a short trip in the direction of the poor . 
However , we make no assertions on this point . 
Everything else seemed to him very stupid . 
He was intelligent , and just sufficiently educated to think himself a disciple of Epicurus while he was , in reality , only a product of Pigault Lebrun . 
He laughed willingly and pleasantly over infinite and eternal things , and at the Crotchets of that good old fellow the Bishop . 
He even sometimes laughed at him with an amiable authority in the presence of M. Myriel himself , who listened to him . 
On some semi official occasion or other , I do not recollect what , Count this senator and M. Myriel were to dine with the prefect . 
At dessert , the senator , who was slightly exhilarated , though still perfectly dignified , exclaimed Egad , Bishop , let's have a discussion . 
It is hard for a senator and a bishop to look at each other without winking . 
I am going to make a confession to you . 
I have a philosophy of my own . 
And you are right , replied the Bishop . 
As one makes one's philosophy , so one lies on it . 
You are on the bed of purple , senator . 
The senator was encouraged , and went on Let us be good fellows . 
Good devils even , said the Bishop . 
I declare to you , continued the senator , that the Marquis d'Argens , Pyrrhon , Hobbes , and M. Naigeon are no rascals . 
I have all the philosophers in my library gilded on the edges . 
Like yourself , Count , interposed the Bishop . 
The senator resumed I hate Diderot he is an ideologist , a declaimer , and a revolutionist , a believer in God at bottom , and more bigoted than Voltaire . 
Voltaire made sport of Needham , and he was wrong , for Needham's eels prove that God is useless . 
A drop of vinegar in a spoonful of flour paste supplies the fiat lux . 
Suppose the drop to be larger and the spoonful bigger you have the world . 
Then what is the good of the Eternal Father ? The Jehovah hypothesis tires me , Bishop . 
It is good for nothing but to produce shallow people , whose reasoning is hollow . 
I am not enthusiastic over your Jesus , who preaches renunciation and sacrifice to the last extremity . 
'Tis the counsel of an avaricious man to beggars . 
Renunciation why ? Sacrifice to what end ? I do not see one wolf immolating himself for the happiness of another wolf . 
Let us stick to nature , then . 
We are at the top let us have a superior philosophy . 
What is the advantage of being at the top , if one sees no further than the end of other people's noses ? Let us live merrily . 
That man has another future elsewhere , on high , below , anywhere , I don't believe not one single word of it . 
Why ? Because I shall have to render an account of my actions . 
What a fine dream ! After my death it will be a very clever person who can catch me . 
Have a handful of dust seized by a shadow hand , if you can . 
Let us tell the truth , we who are initiated , and who have raised the veil of Isis there is no such thing as either good or evil there is vegetation . 
Let us seek the real . 
Let us get to the bottom of it . 
Let us go into it thoroughly . 
What the deuce ! let us go to the bottom of it ! We must scent out the truth dig in the earth for it , and seize it . 
Then it gives you exquisite joys . 
Then you grow strong , and you laugh . 
I am square on the bottom , I am . 
Immortality , Bishop , is a chance , a waiting for dead men's shoes . 
Do come to my assistance is it not Tertullian who says that the blessed shall travel from star to star ? Very well . 
We shall be the grasshoppers of the stars . 
And then , besides , we shall see God . 
Ta , ta , ta ! What twaddle all these paradises are ! God is a nonsensical monster . 
I would not say that in the Moniteur , egad ! but I may whisper it among friends . 
To sacrifice the world to paradise is to let slip the prey for the shadow . 
Be the dupe of the infinite ! I'm not such a fool . 
I call myself Monsieur le Comte Nought , senator . 
Did I exist before my birth ? No. Shall I exist after death ? No. What am I ? A little dust collected in an organism . 
What am I to do on this earth ? The choice rests with me suffer or enjoy . 
Whither will suffering lead me ? To nothingness but I shall have suffered . 
Whither will enjoyment lead me ? To nothingness but I shall have enjoyed myself . 
One must eat or be eaten . 
It is better to be the tooth than the grass . 
After which , go whither I push thee , the grave digger is there the Pantheon for some of us all falls into the great hole . 
This is the vanishing point . 
Death is death , believe me . 
I laugh at the idea of there being any one who has anything to tell me on that subject . 
Fables of nurses bugaboo for children Jehovah for men . 
No our to morrow is the night . 
Beyond the tomb there is nothing but equal nothingness . 
You have been Sardanapalus , you have been Vincent de Paul it makes no difference . 
Then live your life , above all things . 
Make use of your I while you have it . 
In truth , Bishop , I tell you that I have a philosophy of my own , and I have my philosophers . 
I don't let myself be taken in with that nonsense . 
Of course , there must be something for those who are down , for the barefooted beggars , knife grinders , and miserable wretches . 
Legends , chimeras , the soul , immortality , paradise , the stars , are provided for them to swallow . 
They spread it on their dry bread . 
He who has nothing else has the good . 
That is the least he can have . 
I oppose no objection to that but I reserve Monsieur Naigeon for myself . 
The good God is good for the populace . 
The Bishop clapped his hands . 
That's talking ! he exclaimed . 
What an excellent and really marvellous thing is this materialism ! Not every one who wants it can have it . 
How agreeable that is ! I do not say that with reference to you , senator . 
Nevertheless , it is impossible for me to refrain from congratulating you . 
This philosophy has been extracted from the depths , and unearthed by special seekers . 
This letter is in our possession . 
MY GOOD MADAM Not a day passes without our speaking of you . 
It is our established custom but there is another reason besides . 
Madam Magloire has pulled off all the paper . 
This was covered with a cloth while this was the hospital . 
And the woodwork was of the era of our grandmothers . 
But my room is the one you ought to see . 
Madam Magloire has discovered , under at least ten thicknesses of paper pasted on top , some paintings , which without being good are very tolerable . 
The subject is Telemachus being knighted by Minerva in some gardens , the name of which escapes me . 
In short , where the Roman ladies repaired on one single night . 
What shall I say to you ? I have Romans , and Roman ladies here occurs an illegible word , and the whole train . 
Madam Magloire has cleaned it all off this summer she is going to have some small injuries repaired , and the whole revarnished , and my chamber will be a regular museum . 
She has also found in a corner of the attic two wooden pier tables of ancient fashion . 
I am always very happy . 
My brother is so good . 
He gives all he has to the poor and sick . 
We are very much cramped . 
The country is trying in the winter , and we really must do something for those who are in need . 
We are almost comfortably lighted and warmed . 
You see that these are great treats . 
My brother has ways of his own . 
When he talks , he says that a bishop ought to be so . 
Just imagine ! the door of our house is never fastened . 
Whoever chooses to enter finds himself at once in my brother's room . 
He fears nothing , even at night . 
That is his sort of bravery , he says . 
He does not wish me or Madame Magloire feel any fear for him . 
He exposes himself to all sorts of dangers , and he does not like to have us even seem to notice it . 
One must know how to understand him . 
He goes out in the rain , he walks in the water , he travels in winter . 
He fears neither suspicious roads nor dangerous encounters , nor night . 
Last year he went quite alone into a country of robbers . 
He would not take us . 
He was absent for a fortnight . 
At first I used to say to myself , There are no dangers which will stop him he is terrible . 
Now I have ended by getting used to it . 
I make a sign to Madam Magloire that she is not to oppose him . 
He risks himself as he sees fit . 
I carry off Madam Magloire , I enter my chamber , I pray for him and fall asleep . 
I am at ease , because I know that if anything were to happen to him , it would be the end of me . 
I should go to the good God with my brother and my bishop . 
It has cost Madam Magloire more trouble than it did me to accustom herself to what she terms his imprudences . 
But now the habit has been acquired . 
We pray together , we tremble together , and we fall asleep . 
If the devil were to enter this house , he would be allowed to do so . 
After all , what is there for us to fear in this house ? There is always some one with us who is stronger than we . 
The devil may pass through it , but the good God dwells here . 
My brother has no longer any need of saying a word to me . 
I understand him without his speaking , and we abandon ourselves to the care of Providence . 
That is the way one has to do with a man who possesses grandeur of soul . 
I have interrogated my brother with regard to the information which you desire on the subject of the Faux family . 
You are aware that he knows everything , and that he has memories , because he is still a very good royalist . 
They really are a very ancient Norman family of the generalship of Caen . 
The last was Guy Etienne Alexandre , and was commander of a regiment , and something in the light horse of Bretagne . 
It is written Faux , Fauq , and Faoucq . 
Good Madame , recommend us to the prayers of your sainted relative , Monsieur the Cardinal . 
As for your dear Sylvanie , she has done well in not wasting the few moments which she passes with you in writing to me . 
She is well , works as you would wish , and loves me . 
That is all that I desire . 
The souvenir which she sent through you reached me safely , and it makes me very happy . 
My health is not so very bad , and yet I grow thinner every day . 
Farewell my paper is at an end , and this forces me to leave you . 
P. S. Your grand nephew is charming . 
They trembled , but they let him alone . 
Sometimes Madame Magloire essayed a remonstrance in advance , but never at the time , nor afterwards . 
They never interfered with him by so much as a word or sign , in any action once entered upon . 
They served him passively and if obedience consisted in disappearing , they disappeared . 
They understood , with an admirable delicacy of instinct , that certain cares may be put under constraint . 
They confided him to God . 
Moreover , Baptistine said , as we have just read , that her brother's end would prove her own . 
Madame Magloire did not say this , but she knew it . 
In the country near D a man lived quite alone . 
This man , we will state at once , was a former member of the Convention . 
This man was almost a monster . 
He had not voted for the death of the king , but almost . 
He was a quasi regicide . 
He had been a terrible man . 
An example , in short , etc . 
Besides , he was an atheist , like all the rest of those people . 
Gossip of the geese about the vulture . 
Was G a vulture after all ? Yes if he were to be judged by the element of ferocity in this solitude of his . 
As he had not voted for the death of the king , he had not been included in the decrees of exile , and had been able to remain in France . 
He had there , it was said , a sort of field , a hole , a lair . 
There were no neighbors , not even passers by . 
Since he had dwelt in that valley , the path which led thither had disappeared under a growth of grass . 
The locality was spoken of as though it had been the dwelling of a hangman . 
And he added , deep in his own mind , I owe him a visit . 
Still , should the scab of the sheep cause the shepherd to recoil ? No. But what a sheep ! The good Bishop was perplexed . 
Sometimes he set out in that direction then he returned . 
Thank God ! some added . 
The sun was setting , and had almost touched the horizon when the Bishop arrived at the excommunicated spot . 
With a certain beating of the heart , he recognized the fact that he was near the lair . 
It was a very low hut , poor , small , and clean , with a vine nailed against the outside . 
Near the door , in an old wheel chair , the arm chair of the peasants , there was a white haired man , smiling at the sun . 
Near the seated man stood a young boy , the shepherd lad . 
He was offering the old man a jar of milk . 
While the Bishop was watching him , the old man spoke Thank you , he said , I need nothing . 
And his smile quitted the sun to rest upon the child . 
This is the first time since I have been here , said he , that any one has entered here . 
Who are you , sir ? The Bishop answered My name is Bienvenu Myriel . 
Bienvenu Myriel ? I have heard that name . 
Are you the man whom the people call Monseigneur Welcome ? I am . 
The old man resumed with a half smile In that case , you are my bishop ? Something of that sort . 
The member of the Convention extended his hand to the Bishop , but the Bishop did not take it . 
The Bishop confined himself to the remark I am pleased to see that I have been misinformed . 
You certainly do not seem to me to be ill . 
Monsieur , replied the old man , I am going to recover . 
He paused , and then said I shall die three hours hence . 
Then he continued I am something of a doctor I know in what fashion the last hour draws on . 
The sun is beautiful , is it not ? I had myself wheeled out here to take a last look at things . 
You can talk to me it does not fatigue me . 
You have done well to come and look at a man who is on the point of death . 
It is well that there should be witnesses at that moment . 
One has one's caprices I should have liked to last until the dawn , but I know that I shall hardly live three hours . 
It will be night then . 
What does it matter , after all ? Dying is a simple affair . 
One has no need of the light for that . 
I shall die by starlight . 
The old man turned to the shepherd lad Go to thy bed thou wert awake all last night thou art tired . 
The child entered the hut . 
The old man followed him with his eyes , and added , as though speaking to himself I shall die while he sleeps . 
The two slumbers may be good neighbors . 
The Bishop was not touched as it seems that he should have been . 
He was assailed by a fancy for peevish familiarity , common enough to doctors and priests , but which was not habitual with him . 
A member of the Convention produced on him somewhat the effect of being outside the pale of the law , even of the law of charity . 
G , calm , his body almost upright , his voice vibrating , was one of those octogenarians who form the subject of astonishment to the physiologist . 
The Revolution had many of these men , proportioned to the epoch . 
In this old man one was conscious of a man put to the proof . 
Though so near to his end , he preserved all the gestures of health . 
In his clear glance , in his firm tone , in the robust movement of his shoulders , there was something calculated to disconcert death . 
Azrael , the Mohammedan angel of the sepulchre , would have turned back , and thought that he had mistaken the door . 
G seemed to be dying because he willed it so . 
There was freedom in his agony . 
His legs alone were motionless . 
It was there that the shadows held him fast . 
His feet were cold and dead , but his head survived with all the power of life , and seemed full of light . 
G , at this solemn moment , resembled the king in that tale of the Orient who was flesh above and marble below . 
There was a stone there . 
I congratulate you , said he , in the tone which one uses for a reprimand . 
You did not vote for the death of the king , after all . 
The old member of the Convention did not appear to notice the bitter meaning underlying the words after all . 
The smile had quite disappeared from his face . 
Do not congratulate me too much , sir . 
I did vote for the death of the tyrant . 
It was the tone of austerity answering the tone of severity . 
What do you mean to say ? resumed the Bishop . 
I mean to say that man has a tyrant , ignorance . 
I voted for the death of that tyrant . 
That tyrant engendered royalty , which is authority falsely understood , while science is authority rightly understood . 
Man should be governed only by science . 
And conscience , added the Bishop . 
It is the same thing . 
Conscience is the quantity of innate science which we have within us . 
Monseigneur Bienvenu listened in some astonishment to this language , which was very new to him . 
The member of the Convention resumed So far as Louis XVI . 
was concerned , I said no . 
I did not think that I had the right to kill a man but I felt it my duty to exterminate evil . 
In voting for the Republic , I voted for that . 
I voted for fraternity , concord , the dawn . 
I have aided in the overthrow of prejudices and errors . 
The crumbling away of prejudices and errors causes light . 
Mixed joy , said the Bishop . 
To destroy abuses is not sufficient customs must be modified . 
The mill is there no longer the wind is still there . 
It may be of use to demolish , but I distrust a demolition complicated with wrath . 
Right has its wrath , Bishop and the wrath of right is an element of progress . 
In any case , and in spite of whatever may be said , the French Revolution is the most important step of the human race since the advent of Christ . 
Incomplete , it may be , but sublime . 
It set free all the unknown social quantities it softened spirits , it calmed , appeased , enlightened it caused the waves of civilization to flow over the earth . 
It was a good thing . 
The French Revolution is the consecration of humanity . 
A cloud had been forming for the space of fifteen hundred years at the end of fifteen hundred years it burst . 
You are putting the thunderbolt on its trial . 
The Bishop felt , without , perhaps , confessing it , that something within him had suffered extinction . 
Nevertheless , he put a good face on the matter . 
He replied The judge speaks in the name of justice the priest speaks in the name of pity , which is nothing but a more lofty justice . 
A thunderbolt should commit no error . 
And he added , regarding the member of the Convention steadily the while , Louis XVII . 
? The conventionary stretched forth his hand and grasped the Bishop's arm . 
For whom do you mourn ? is it for the innocent child ? very good in that case I mourn with you . 
Is it for the royal child ? I demand time for reflection . 
, an innocent child , martyred in the tower of the Temple , for the sole crime of having been grandson of Louis XV . 
Monsieur , said the Bishop , I like not this conjunction of names . 
? To which of the two do you object ? A momentary silence ensued . 
The Bishop almost regretted having come , and yet he felt vaguely and strangely shaken . 
The conventionary resumed Ah , Monsieur Priest , you love not the crudities of the true . 
He seized a rod and cleared out the Temple . 
His scourge , full of lightnings , was a harsh speaker of truths . 
When he cried , Sinite parvulos , he made no distinction between the little children . 
It would not have embarrassed him to bring together the Dauphin of Barabbas and the Dauphin of Herod . 
Innocence , Monsieur , is its own crown . 
Innocence has no need to be a highness . 
It is as august in rags as in fleurs de lys . 
That is true , said the Bishop in a low voice . 
I persist , continued the conventionary G You have mentioned Louis XVII . 
Let us come to an understanding . 
Shall we weep for all the innocent , all martyrs , all children , the lowly as well as the exalted ? I agree to that . 
But in that case , as I have told you , we must go back further than , and our tears must begin before Louis XVII . 
I will weep with you over the children of kings , provided that you will weep with me over the children of the people . 
I weep for all , said the Bishop . 
Equally ! exclaimed conventionary G and if the balance must incline , let it be on the side of the people . 
They have been suffering longer . 
The conventionary was the first to break it . 
It was almost an explosion . 
Yes , sir , the people have been suffering a long while . 
And hold ! that is not all , either why have you just questioned me and talked to me about Louis XVII . 
? I know you not . 
Ever since I have been in these parts I have dwelt in this enclosure alone , never setting foot outside , and seeing no one but that child who helps me . 
By the way , I did not hear the sound of your carriage you have left it yonder , behind the coppice at the fork of the roads , no doubt . 
I do not know you , I tell you . 
You have told me that you are the Bishop but that affords me no information as to your moral personality . 
In short , I repeat my question . 
To whom do I speak ? Who are you ? The Bishop hung his head and replied , Vermis sum I am a worm . 
A worm of the earth in a carriage ? growled the conventionary . 
It was the conventionary's turn to be arrogant , and the Bishop's to be humble . 
The Bishop resumed mildly So be it , sir . 
The conventionary passed his hand across his brow , as though to sweep away a cloud . 
Before replying to you , he said , I beseech you to pardon me . 
I have just committed a wrong , sir . 
You are at my house , you are my guest , I owe you courtesy . 
You discuss my ideas , and it becomes me to confine myself to combating your arguments . 
Your riches and your pleasures are advantages which I hold over you in the debate but good taste dictates that I shall not make use of them . 
I promise you to make no use of them in the future . 
I thank you , said the Bishop . 
Let us return to the explanation which you have asked of me . 
Where were we ? What were you saying to me ? That was inexorable ? Inexorable yes , said the Bishop . 
The Bishop quivered under it no reply occurred to him but he was offended by this mode of alluding to Bossuet . 
The best of minds will have their fetiches , and they sometimes feel vaguely wounded by the want of respect of logic . 
The conventionary began to pant the asthma of the agony which is mingled with the last breaths interrupted his voice still , there was a perfect lucidity of soul in his eyes . 
He went on Let me say a few words more in this and that direction I am willing . 
Apart from the Revolution , which , taken as a whole , is an immense human affirmation , is , alas ! a rejoinder . 
From its most terrible blows there comes forth a caress for the human race . 
I abridge , I stop , I have too much the advantage moreover , I am dying . 
And ceasing to gaze at the Bishop , the conventionary concluded his thoughts in these tranquil words Yes , the brutalities of progress are called revolutions . 
When they are over , this fact is recognized , that the human race has been treated harshly , but that it has progressed . 
The conventionary doubted not that he had successively conquered all the inmost intrenchments of the Bishop . 
Good cannot have an impious servitor . 
He who is an atheist is but a bad leader for the human race . 
The former representative of the people made no reply . 
He was seized with a fit of trembling . 
He looked towards heaven , and in his glance a tear gathered slowly . 
After a pause , the old man raised a finger heavenward and said The infinite is . 
If the infinite had no person , person would be without limit it would not be infinite in other words , it would not exist . 
There is , then , an I . 
That I of the infinite is God . 
The dying man had pronounced these last words in a loud voice , and with the shiver of ecstasy , as though he beheld some one . 
When he had spoken , his eyes closed . 
The effort had exhausted him . 
It was evident that he had just lived through in a moment the few hours which had been left to him . 
That which he had said brought him nearer to him who is in death . 
The supreme moment was approaching . 
This hour is the hour of God . 
Do you not think that it would be regrettable if we had met in vain ? The conventionary opened his eyes again . 
A gravity mingled with gloom was imprinted on his countenance . 
I was sixty years of age when my country called me and commanded me to concern myself with its affairs . 
Abuses existed , I combated them tyrannies existed , I destroyed them rights and principles existed , I proclaimed and confessed them . 
Our territory was invaded , I defended it France was menaced , I offered my breast . 
I was not rich I am poor . 
I have succored the oppressed , I have comforted the suffering . 
I tore the cloth from the altar , it is true but it was to bind up the wounds of my country . 
I have always upheld the march forward of the human race , forward towards the light , and I have sometimes resisted progress without pity . 
I have , when the occasion offered , protected my own adversaries , men of your profession . 
I have done my duty according to my powers , and all the good that I was able . 
After which , I was hunted down , pursued , persecuted , blackened , jeered at , scorned , cursed , proscribed . 
And I accept this isolation of hatred , without hating any one myself . 
Now I am eighty six years old I am on the point of death . 
What is it that you have come to ask of me ? Your blessing , said the Bishop . 
When the Bishop raised his head again , the face of the conventionary had become august . 
The Bishop returned home , deeply absorbed in thoughts which cannot be known to us . 
He passed the whole night in prayer . 
On the following morning some bold and curious persons attempted to speak to him about member of the Convention G he contented himself with pointing heavenward . 
From that moment he redoubled his tenderness and brotherly feeling towards all children and sufferers . 
Any allusion to that old wretch of a G caused him to fall into a singular preoccupation . 
No one could say that the passage of that soul before his , and the reflection of that grand conscience upon his , did not count for something in his approach to perfection . 
This pastoral visit naturally furnished an occasion for a murmur of comment in all the little local coteries . 
Was the bedside of such a dying man as that the proper place for a bishop ? There was evidently no conversion to be expected . 
All those revolutionists are backsliders . 
Then why go there ? What was there to be seen there ? He must have been very curious indeed to see a soul carried off by the devil . 
It is lucky that those who despise it in a cap revere it in a hat . 
CHAPTER XI A RESTRICTION We should incur a great risk of deceiving ourselves , were we to conclude from this that Monseigneur Welcome was a philosophical bishop , or a patriotic cure . 
His meeting , which may almost be designated as his union , with conventionary G , left behind it in his mind a sort of astonishment , which rendered him still more gentle . 
Let us , then , go back a few years . 
Some time after the elevation of M. Myriel to the episcopate , the Emperor had made him a baron of the Empire , in company with many other bishops . 
This synod was held at Notre Dame , and assembled for the first time on the th of June , , under the presidency of Cardinal Fesch . 
M. Myriel was one of the ninety five bishops who attended it . 
But he was present only at one sitting and at three or four private conferences . 
He very soon returned to D He was interrogated as to this speedy return , and he replied I embarrassed them . 
The outside air penetrated to them through me . 
I produced on them the effect of an open door . 
On another occasion he said , What would you have ? Those gentlemen are princes . 
I am only a poor peasant bishop . 
The fact is that he displeased them . 
This hatred would involve the hatred of the arts . 
Nevertheless , in churchmen , luxury is wrong , except in connection with representations and ceremonies . 
It seems to reveal habits which have very little that is charitable about them . 
An opulent priest is a contradiction . 
The priest must keep close to the poor . 
This is , no doubt , what the Bishop of D thought . 
It must not be supposed , however , that he shared what we call the ideas of the century on certain delicate points . 
Since we are making a portrait , and since we do not wish to conceal anything , we are forced to add that he was glacial towards Napoleon in his decline . 
Beginning with , he gave in his adherence to or applauded all hostile manifestations . 
Besides his sister , Mademoiselle Baptistine , he had two brothers , one a general , the other a prefect . 
He wrote to both with tolerable frequency . 
His correspondence with the other brother , the ex prefect , a fine , worthy man who lived in retirement at Paris , Rue Cassette , remained more affectionate . 
Thus Monseigneur Bienvenu also had his hour of party spirit , his hour of bitterness , his cloud . 
The shadow of the passions of the moment traversed this grand and gentle spirit occupied with eternal things . 
Certainly , such a man would have done well not to entertain any political opinions . 
But that which pleases us in people who are rising pleases us less in the case of people who are falling . 
He who has not been a stubborn accuser in prosperity should hold his peace in the face of ruin . 
The denunciator of success is the only legitimate executioner of the fall . 
As for us , when Providence intervenes and strikes , we let it work . 
In the cowardly breach of silence of that taciturn legislative body , emboldened by catastrophe , possessed only traits which aroused indignation . 
With this exception , he was in all things just , true , equitable , intelligent , humble and dignified , beneficent and kindly , which is only another sort of benevolence . 
He was a priest , a sage , and a man . 
The porter of the town hall had been placed there by the Emperor . 
He was an old non commissioned officer of the old guard , a member of the Legion of Honor at Austerlitz , as much of a Bonapartist as the eagle . 
This poor fellow occasionally let slip inconsiderate remarks , which the law then stigmatized as seditious speeches . 
He had himself devoutly removed the imperial effigy from the cross which Napoleon had given him this made a hole , and he would not put anything in its place . 
I will die , he said , rather than wear the three frogs upon my heart ! He liked to scoff aloud at Louis XVIII . 
The gouty old creature in English gaiters ! he said let him take himself off to Prussia with that queue of his . 
He was happy to combine in the same imprecation the two things which he most detested , Prussia and England . 
He did it so often that he lost his place . 
There he was , turned out of the house , with his wife and children , and without bread . 
The Bishop sent for him , reproved him gently , and appointed him beadle in the cathedral . 
In the course of nine years Monseigneur Bienvenu had , by dint of holy deeds and gentle manners , filled the town of D with a sort of tender and filial reverence . 
CHAPTER XII THE SOLITUDE OF MONSEIGNEUR WELCOME A bishop is almost always surrounded by a full squadron of little abbes , just as a general is by a covey of young officers . 
This is what that charming Saint Francois de Sales calls somewhere les pretres blancs becs , callow priests . 
Every career has its aspirants , who form a train for those who have attained eminence in it . 
There is no power which has not its dependents . 
There is no fortune which has not its court . 
The seekers of the future eddy around the splendid present . 
Every metropolis has its staff of officials . 
To please a bishop is equivalent to getting one's foot in the stirrup for a sub diaconate . 
It is necessary to walk one's path discreetly the apostleship does not disdain the canonship . 
Just as there are bigwigs elsewhere , there are big mitres in the Church . 
As they advance themselves , they cause their satellites to progress also it is a whole solar system on the march . 
Their radiance casts a gleam of purple over their suite . 
Their prosperity is crumbled up behind the scenes , into nice little promotions . 
The larger the diocese of the patron , the fatter the curacy for the favorite . 
And then , there is Rome . 
Every skull cap may dream of the tiara . 
The priest is nowadays the only man who can become a king in a regular manner and what a king ! the supreme king . 
Monseigneur Bienvenu , poor , humble , retiring , was not accounted among the big mitres . 
This was plain from the complete absence of young priests about him . 
We have seen that he did not take in Paris . 
Not a single future dreamed of engrafting itself on this solitary old man . 
Not a single sprouting ambition committed the folly of putting forth its foliage in his shadow . 
For , in short , we repeat it , men wish to be pushed . 
Hence the isolation of Monseigneur Bienvenu . 
We live in the midst of a gloomy society . 
Success that is the lesson which falls drop by drop from the slope of corruption . 
Be it said in passing , that success is a very hideous thing . 
Its false resemblance to merit deceives men . 
For the masses , success has almost the same profile as supremacy . 
Success , that Menaechmus of talent , has one dupe , history . 
Juvenal and Tacitus alone grumble at it . 
In our day , a philosophy which is almost official has entered into its service , wears the livery of success , and performs the service of its antechamber . 
Win in the lottery , and behold ! you are a clever man . 
He who triumphs is venerated . 
Be born with a silver spoon in your mouth ! everything lies in that . 
Be lucky , and you will have all the rest be happy , and people will think you great . 
Outside of five or six immense exceptions , which compose the splendor of a century , contemporary admiration is nothing but short sightedness . 
It does no harm to be the first arrival by pure chance , so long as you do arrive . 
The common herd is an old Narcissus who adores himself , and who applauds the vulgar herd . 
With the constellations of space they confound the stars of the abyss which are made in the soft mire of the puddle by the feet of ducks . 
CHAPTER XIII WHAT HE BELIEVED We are not obliged to sound the Bishop of D on the score of orthodoxy . 
In the presence of such a soul we feel ourselves in no mood but respect . 
The conscience of the just man should be accepted on his word . 
Moreover , certain natures being given , we admit the possible development of all beauties of human virtue in a belief that differs from our own . 
What did he think of this dogma , or of that mystery ? These secrets of the inner tribunal of the conscience are known only to the tomb , where souls enter naked . 
The point on which we are certain is , that the difficulties of faith never resolved themselves into hypocrisy in his case . 
No decay is possible to the diamond . 
He believed to the extent of his powers . 
Credo in Patrem , he often exclaimed . 
What was this excess of love ? It was a serene benevolence which overflowed men , as we have already pointed out , and which , on occasion , extended even to things . 
He was indulgent towards God's creation . 
Every man , even the best , has within him a thoughtless harshness which he reserves for animals . 
The Bishop of D had none of that harshness , which is peculiar to many priests , nevertheless . 
He was touched , almost softened by them . 
It seemed as though he went thoughtfully away to seek beyond the bounds of life which is apparent , the cause , the explanation , or the excuse for them . 
He seemed at times to be asking God to commute these penalties . 
He examined without wrath , and with the eye of a linguist who is deciphering a palimpsest , that portion of chaos which still exists in nature . 
This revery sometimes caused him to utter odd sayings . 
One day he sprained his ankle in his effort to avoid stepping on an ant . 
Thus lived this just man . 
Sometimes he fell asleep in his garden , and then there was nothing more venerable possible . 
These hollows are uneffaceable these formations are indestructible . 
In , as we think we have already said , he reached his seventy fifth birthday , but he did not appear to be more than sixty . 
, at the age of eighty , held himself erect and smiling , which did not prevent him from being a bad bishop . 
Monseigneur Welcome had what the people term a fine head , but so amiable was he that they forgot that it was fine . 
That , it will be recalled , was the effect which he produced upon Napoleon . 
On the first encounter , and to one who saw him for the first time , he was nothing , in fact , but a fine man . 
Filled is exactly the word certainly the Bishop's day was quite full to the brim , of good words and good deeds . 
Nevertheless , it was not complete if cold or rainy weather prevented his passing an hour or two in his garden before going to bed , and after the two women had retired . 
It seemed to be a sort of rite with him , to prepare himself for slumber by meditation in the presence of the grand spectacles of the nocturnal heavens . 
Sometimes , if the two old women were not asleep , they heard him pacing slowly along the walks at a very advanced hour of the night . 
He did not study God he was dazzled by him . 
These conjunctions are formed and dissolved incessantly hence life and death . 
He seated himself on a wooden bench , with his back against a decrepit vine he gazed at the stars , past the puny and stunted silhouettes of his fruit trees . 
This quarter of an acre , so poorly planted , so encumbered with mean buildings and sheds , was dear to him , and satisfied his wants . 
At one's feet that which can be cultivated and plucked over head that which one can study and meditate upon some flowers on earth , and all the stars in the sky . 
CHAPTER XIV WHAT HE THOUGHT One last word . 
That which enlightened this man was his heart . 
His wisdom was made of the light which comes from there . 
Abstruse speculations contain vertigo no , there is nothing to indicate that he risked his mind in apocalypses . 
The apostle may be daring , but the bishop must be timid . 
He would probably have felt a scruple at sounding too far in advance certain problems which are , in a manner , reserved for terrible great minds . 
Woe to him who penetrates thither ! Geniuses in the impenetrable depths of abstraction and pure speculation , situated , so to speak , above all dogmas , propose their ideas to God . 
Their prayer audaciously offers discussion . 
This is direct religion , which is full of anxiety and responsibility for him who attempts its steep cliffs . 
Human meditation has no limits . 
At his own risk and peril , it analyzes and digs deep into its own bedazzlement . 
Monseigneur Welcome was one of these men Monseigneur Welcome was not a genius . 
He would have feared those sublimities whence some very great men even , like Swedenborg and Pascal , have slipped into insanity . 
Certainly , these powerful reveries have their moral utility , and by these arduous paths one approaches to ideal perfection . 
As for him , he took the path which shortens , the Gospel's . 
This humble soul loved , and that was all . 
He inclined towards all that groans and all that expiates . 
The terrible spectacle of created things developed tenderness in him he was occupied only in finding for himself , and in inspiring others with the best way to compassionate and relieve . 
That which exists was for this good and rare priest a permanent subject of sadness which sought consolation . 
There are men who toil at extracting gold he toiled at the extraction of pity . 
Universal misery was his mine . 
The sadness which reigned everywhere was but an excuse for unfailing kindness . 
Love each other he declared this to be complete , desired nothing further , and that was the whole of his doctrine . 
Your love each other is nonsense . 
Well , replied Monseigneur Welcome , without contesting the point , if it is nonsense , the soul should shut itself up in it , as the pearl in the oyster . 
It was difficult to encounter a wayfarer of more wretched appearance . 
He was a man of medium stature , thickset and robust , in the prime of life . 
He might have been forty six or forty eight years old . 
A cap with a drooping leather visor partly concealed his face , burned and tanned by sun and wind , and dripping with perspiration . 
The sweat , the heat , the journey on foot , the dust , added I know not what sordid quality to this dilapidated whole . 
His hair was closely cut , yet bristling , for it had begun to grow a little , and did not seem to have been cut for some time . 
He was evidently only a chance passer by . 
This man must have been walking all day . 
He seemed very much fatigued . 
He must have been very thirsty for the children who followed him saw him stop again for a drink , two hundred paces further on , at the fountain in the market place . 
On arriving at the corner of the Rue Poichevert , he turned to the left , and directed his steps toward the town hall . 
He entered , then came out a quarter of an hour later . 
The man pulled off his cap and humbly saluted the gendarme . 
The gendarme , without replying to his salute , stared attentively at him , followed him for a while with his eyes , and then entered the town hall . 
There then existed at D a fine inn at the sign of the Cross of Colbas . 
At the time of the Emperor's landing , many rumors had circulated throughout the country with regard to this inn of the Three Dauphins . 
This glory of the Labarre of the Three Dauphins was reflected upon the Labarre of the Cross of Colbas , at a distance of five and twenty leagues . 
It was said of him in the town , That is the cousin of the man of Grenoble . 
The man bent his steps towards this inn , which was the best in the country side . 
He entered the kitchen , which opened on a level with the street . 
All the stoves were lighted a huge fire blazed gayly in the fireplace . 
Any one who has travelled knows that there is no one who indulges in better cheer than wagoners . 
Nothing easier , replied the host . 
At that moment he turned his head , took in the traveller's appearance with a single glance , and added , By paying for it . 
The man drew a large leather purse from the pocket of his blouse , and answered , I have money . 
In that case , we are at your service , said the host . 
D is in the mountains . 
The evenings are cold there in October . 
But as the host went back and forth , he scrutinized the traveller . 
Will dinner be ready soon ? said the man . 
Immediately , replied the landlord . 
The landlord whispered a word in the scullion's ear , and the child set off on a run in the direction of the town hall . 
The traveller saw nothing of all this . 
Once more he inquired , Will dinner be ready soon ? Immediately , responded the host . 
He brought back the paper . 
The host unfolded it eagerly , like a person who is expecting a reply . 
He seemed to read it attentively , then tossed his head , and remained thoughtful for a moment . 
Then he took a step in the direction of the traveller , who appeared to be immersed in reflections which were not very serene . 
I cannot receive you , sir , said he . 
What ! Are you afraid that I will not pay you ? Do you want me to pay you in advance ? I have money , I tell you . 
What then ? You have money Yes , said the man . 
And I , said the host , have no room . 
The man resumed tranquilly , Put me in the stable . 
Why ? The horses take up all the space . 
Very well ! retorted the man a corner of the loft then , a truss of straw . 
We will see about that after dinner . 
I cannot give you any dinner . 
This declaration , made in a measured but firm tone , struck the stranger as grave . 
Ah ! bah ! But I am dying of hunger . 
I have been walking since sunrise . 
I have travelled twelve leagues . 
I have nothing , said the landlord . 
The man burst out laughing , and turned towards the fireplace and the stoves Nothing ! and all that ? All that is engaged . 
By whom ? By messieurs the wagoners . 
How many are there of them ? Twelve . 
There is enough food there for twenty . 
They have engaged the whole of it and paid for it in advance . 
The man seated himself again , and said , without raising his voice , I am at an inn I am hungry , and I shall remain . 
Do you want me to tell you your name ? Your name is Jean Valjean . 
The man cast a glance upon it . 
The landlord resumed after a pause . 
I am in the habit of being polite to every one . 
Go away ! The man dropped his head , picked up the knapsack which he had deposited on the ground , and took his departure . 
He chose the principal street . 
He walked straight on at a venture , keeping close to the houses like a sad and humiliated man . 
He did not turn round a single time . 
He saw nothing of all this . 
People who are crushed do not look behind them . 
They know but too well the evil fate which follows them . 
All at once he felt the pangs of hunger sharply . 
He glanced about him , to see whether he could not discover some shelter . 
The fine hostelry was closed to him he was seeking some very humble public house , some hovel , however lowly . 
Just then a light flashed up at the end of the streets a pine branch suspended from a cross beam of iron was outlined against the white sky of the twilight . 
It proved to be , in fact , a public house . 
The public house which is in the Rue de Chaffaut . 
Some men were engaged in drinking there . 
The landlord was warming himself . 
An iron pot , suspended from a crane , bubbled over the flame . 
The entrance to this public house , which is also a sort of an inn , is by two doors . 
One opens on the street , the other upon a small yard filled with manure . 
The traveller dare not enter by the street door . 
He slipped into the yard , halted again , then raised the latch timidly and opened the door . 
Who goes there ? said the master . 
Some one who wants supper and bed . 
We furnish supper and bed here . 
All the men who were drinking turned round . 
The lamp illuminated him on one side , the firelight on the other . 
They examined him for some time while he was taking off his knapsack . 
The host said to him , There is the fire . 
The supper is cooking in the pot . 
Come and warm yourself , comrade . 
He approached and seated himself near the hearth . 
He stretched out his feet , which were exhausted with fatigue , to the fire a fine odor was emitted by the pot . 
It was , moreover , a firm , energetic , and melancholy profile . 
This physiognomy was strangely composed it began by seeming humble , and ended by seeming severe . 
The eye shone beneath its lashes like a fire beneath brushwood . 
It chanced that he had that very morning encountered this unprepossessing stranger on the road between Bras d'Asse and I have forgotten the name . 
I think it was Escoublon . 
From where he sat he made an imperceptible sign to the tavern keeper . 
The tavern keeper went to him . 
They exchanged a few words in a low tone . 
The man had again become absorbed in his reflections . 
The tavern keeper returned to the fireplace , laid his hand abruptly on the shoulder of the man , and said to him You are going to get out of here . 
The stranger turned round and replied gently , Ah ! You know ? Yes . 
I was sent away from the other inn . 
And you are to be turned out of this one . 
Where would you have me go ? Elsewhere . 
The man took his stick and his knapsack and departed . 
As he went out , some children who had followed him from the Cross of Colbas , and who seemed to be lying in wait for him , threw stones at him . 
He retraced his steps in anger , and threatened them with his stick the children dispersed like a flock of birds . 
He passed before the prison . 
At the door hung an iron chain attached to a bell . 
Get yourself arrested , and you will be admitted . 
He entered a little street in which there were many gardens . 
Some of them are enclosed only by hedges , which lends a cheerful aspect to the street . 
In the midst of these gardens and hedges he caught sight of a small house of a single story , the window of which was lighted up . 
He peered through the pane as he had done at the public house . 
A table was spread in the centre of the room . 
A copper lamp illuminated the tablecloth of coarse white linen , the pewter jug shining like silver , and filled with wine , and the brown , smoking soup tureen . 
At this table sat a man of about forty , with a merry and open countenance , who was dandling a little child on his knees . 
Close by a very young woman was nursing another child . 
The father was laughing , the child was laughing , the mother was smiling . 
The stranger paused a moment in revery before this tender and calming spectacle . 
What was taking place within him ? He alone could have told . 
He tapped on the pane with a very small and feeble knock . 
They did not hear him . 
He heard the woman say , It seems to me , husband , that some one is knocking . 
No , replied the husband . 
He tapped a third time . 
The husband rose , took the lamp , and went to the door , which he opened . 
He was a man of lofty stature , half peasant , half artisan . 
He carried his head thrown backwards his shirt , widely opened and turned back , displayed his bull neck , white and bare . 
The man replied I have just come from Puy Moisson . 
I have walked all day long . 
I have travelled twelve leagues . 
Can you ? if I pay ? I would not refuse , said the peasant , to lodge any respectable man who would pay me . 
But why do you not go to the inn ? There is no room . 
This is neither a fair nor a market day . 
Have you been to Labarre ? Yes . 
Well ? The traveller replied with embarrassment I do not know . 
He did not receive me . 
Have you been to What's his name's , in the Rue Chaffaut ? The stranger's embarrassment increased he stammered , He did not receive me either . 
Patois of the French Alps chat de maraude , rascally marauder . 
All this took place in less time than it requires to picture it to one's self . 
A shot from my gun ! said the peasant . 
Then he closed the door violently , and the man heard him shoot two large bolts . 
A moment later , the window shutter was closed , and the sound of a bar of iron which was placed against it was audible outside . 
A cold wind from the Alps was blowing . 
He climbed over the wooden fence resolutely , and found himself in the garden . 
He approached the hut its door consisted of a very low and narrow aperture , and it resembled those buildings which road laborers construct for themselves along the roads . 
This sort of dwelling is not usually occupied at night . 
He threw himself flat on his face , and crawled into the hut . 
It was warm there , and he found a tolerably good bed of straw . 
He lay , for a moment , stretched out on this bed , without the power to make a movement , so fatigued was he . 
At that moment , a ferocious growl became audible . 
The head of an enormous dog was outlined in the darkness at the entrance of the hut . 
It was a dog's kennel . 
He went out of the town , hoping to find some tree or haystack in the fields which would afford him shelter . 
He walked thus for some time , with his head still drooping . 
When he felt himself far from every human habitation , he raised his eyes and gazed searchingly about him . 
He was in a field . 
Before him was one of those low hills covered with close cut stubble , which , after the harvest , resemble shaved heads . 
The horizon was perfectly black . 
The whole effect was hideous , petty , lugubrious , and narrow . 
There was nothing in the field or on the hill except a deformed tree , which writhed and shivered a few paces distant from the wayfarer . 
There are instants when nature seems hostile . 
He retraced his steps the gates of D were closed . 
D , which had sustained sieges during the wars of religion , was still surrounded in by ancient walls flanked by square towers which have been demolished since . 
He passed through a breach and entered the town again . 
It might have been eight o'clock in the evening . 
As he was not acquainted with the streets , he recommenced his walk at random . 
In this way he came to the prefecture , then to the seminary . 
As he passed through the Cathedral Square , he shook his fist at the church . 
At the corner of this square there is a printing establishment . 
Worn out with fatigue , and no longer entertaining any hope , he lay down on a stone bench which stands at the doorway of this printing office . 
At that moment an old woman came out of the church . 
She saw the man stretched out in the shadow . 
What are you doing there , my friend ? said she . 
He answered harshly and angrily As you see , my good woman , I am sleeping . 
The good woman , who was well worthy the name , in fact , was the Marquise de R On this bench ? she went on . 
I have had a mattress of wood for nineteen years , said the man to day I have a mattress of stone . 
You have been a soldier ? Yes , my good woman , a soldier . 
Why do you not go to the inn ? Because I have no money . 
Alas ! said Madame de R , I have only four sous in my purse . 
Give it to me all the same . 
The man took the four sous . 
Madame de R continued You cannot obtain lodgings in an inn for so small a sum . 
But have you tried ? It is impossible for you to pass the night thus . 
You are cold and hungry , no doubt . 
Some one might have given you a lodging out of charity . 
I have knocked at all doors . 
Well ? I have been driven away everywhere . 
The good woman touched the man's arm , and pointed out to him on the other side of the street a small , low house , which stood beside the Bishop's palace . 
You have knocked at all doors ? Yes . 
Have you knocked at that one ? No. Knock there . 
CHAPTER II PRUDENCE COUNSELLED TO WISDOM . 
That evening , the Bishop of D , after his promenade through the town , remained shut up rather late in his room . 
He was busy over a great work on Duties , which was never completed , unfortunately . 
He was carefully compiling everything that the Fathers and the doctors have said on this important subject . 
His book was divided into two parts firstly , the duties of all secondly , the duties of each individual , according to the class to which he belongs . 
The duties of all are the great duties . 
There are four of these . 
Out of these precepts he was laboriously constructing a harmonious whole , which he desired to present to souls . 
, and a window opening on the garden . 
Madame Magloire was , in fact , just putting the last touches to the table . 
As she performed this service , she was conversing with Mademoiselle Baptistine . 
A lamp stood on the table the table was near the fireplace . 
A wood fire was burning there . 
One can easily picture to one's self these two women , both of whom were over sixty years of age . 
Mademoiselle Baptistine's gown was cut on the patterns of , with a short waist , a narrow , sheath like skirt , puffed sleeves , with flaps and buttons . 
She concealed her gray hair under a frizzed wig known as the baby wig . 
Mademoiselle Baptistine did not even speak . 
She confined herself to obeying and pleasing him . 
She had always been predestined to gentleness but faith , charity , hope , those three virtues which mildly warm the soul , had gradually elevated that gentleness to sanctity . 
Nature had made her a lamb , religion had made her an angel . 
At the moment when the Bishop entered , Madame Magloire was talking with considerable vivacity . 
She was haranguing Mademoiselle Baptistine on a subject which was familiar to her and to which the Bishop was also accustomed . 
The question concerned the lock upon the entrance door . 
It appears that while procuring some provisions for supper , Madame Magloire had heard things in divers places . 
The police was very badly organized , moreover , because there was no love lost between the Prefect and the Mayor , who sought to injure each other by making things happen . 
Madame Magloire emphasized these last words but the Bishop had just come from his room , where it was rather cold . 
He seated himself in front of the fire , and warmed himself , and then fell to thinking of other things . 
He did not take up the remark dropped with design by Madame Magloire . 
It appeared that a Bohemian , a bare footed vagabond , a sort of dangerous mendicant , was at that moment in the town . 
He had presented himself at Jacquin Labarre's to obtain lodgings , but the latter had not been willing to take him in . 
He had been seen to arrive by the way of the boulevard Gassendi and roam about the streets in the gloaming . 
A gallows bird with a terrible face . 
Really ! said the Bishop . 
This willingness to interrogate encouraged Madame Magloire it seemed to her to indicate that the Bishop was on the point of becoming alarmed she pursued triumphantly Yes , Monseigneur . 
That is how it is . 
There will be some sort of catastrophe in this town to night . 
And withal , the police is so badly regulated . 
The idea of living in a mountainous country , and not even having lights in the streets at night ! One goes out . 
Black as ovens , indeed ! And I say , Monseigneur , and Mademoiselle there says with me I , interrupted his sister , say nothing . 
What my brother does is well done . 
At that moment there came a tolerably violent knock on the door . 
Come in , said the Bishop . 
CHAPTER III THE HEROISM OF PASSIVE OBEDIENCE . 
It opened wide with a rapid movement , as though some one had given it an energetic and resolute push . 
We already know the man . 
It was the wayfarer whom we have seen wandering about in search of shelter . 
He entered , advanced a step , and halted , leaving the door open behind him . 
He had his knapsack on his shoulders , his cudgel in his hand , a rough , audacious , weary , and violent expression in his eyes . 
The fire on the hearth lighted him up . 
It was a sinister apparition . 
Madame Magloire had not even the strength to utter a cry . 
She trembled , and stood with her mouth wide open . 
The Bishop fixed a tranquil eye on the man . 
My name is Jean Valjean . 
I am a convict from the galleys . 
I have passed nineteen years in the galleys . 
I was liberated four days ago , and am on my way to Pontarlier , which is my destination . 
I have been walking for four days since I left Toulon . 
I have travelled a dozen leagues to day on foot . 
I had to do it . 
I went to an inn . 
They said to me , Be off , at both places . 
No one would take me . 
I went to the prison the jailer would not admit me . 
I went into a dog's kennel the dog bit me and chased me off , as though he had been a man . 
One would have said that he knew who I was . 
I went into the fields , intending to sleep in the open air , beneath the stars . 
I thought it was going to rain , and I re entered the town , to seek the recess of a doorway . 
Yonder , in the square , I meant to sleep on a stone bench . 
A good woman pointed out your house to me , and said to me , Knock there ! I have knocked . 
What is this place ? Do you keep an inn ? I have money savings . 
One hundred and nine francs fifteen sous , which I earned in the galleys by my labor , in the course of nineteen years . 
What is that to me ? I have money . 
I am very weary twelve leagues on foot I am very hungry . 
Are you willing that I should remain ? Madame Magloire , said the Bishop , you will set another place . 
The man advanced three paces , and approached the lamp which was on the table . 
Stop , he resumed , as though he had not quite understood that's not it . 
Did you hear ? I am a galley slave a convict . 
I come from the galleys . 
He drew from his pocket a large sheet of yellow paper , which he unfolded . 
Yellow , as you see . 
This serves to expel me from every place where I go . 
Will you read it ? I know how to read . 
I learned in the galleys . 
There is a school there for those who choose to learn . 
He is a very dangerous man . 
There ! Every one has cast me out . 
We have already explained the character of the two women's obedience . 
Madame Magloire retired to execute these orders . 
The Bishop turned to the man . 
Sit down , sir , and warm yourself . 
We are going to sup in a few moments , and your bed will be prepared while you are supping . 
At this point the man suddenly comprehended . 
The expression of his face , up to that time sombre and harsh , bore the imprint of stupefaction , of doubt , of joy , and became extraordinary . 
I felt sure that you would expel me , so I told you at once who I am . 
Besides , I have money . 
Pardon me , monsieur the inn keeper , but what is your name ? I will pay anything you ask . 
You are a fine man . 
You are an inn keeper , are you not ? I am , replied the Bishop , a priest who lives here . 
A priest ! said the man . 
As he spoke , he deposited his knapsack and his cudgel in a corner , replaced his passport in his pocket , and seated himself . 
Mademoiselle Baptistine gazed mildly at him . 
He continued You are humane , Monsieur le Cure you have not scorned me . 
A good priest is a very good thing . 
Then you do not require me to pay ? No , said the Bishop keep your money . 
How much have you ? Did you not tell me one hundred and nine francs ? And fifteen sous , added the man . 
One hundred and nine francs fifteen sous . 
And how long did it take you to earn that ? Nineteen years . 
Nineteen years ! The Bishop sighed deeply . 
The man continued I have still the whole of my money . 
In four days I have spent only twenty five sous , which I earned by helping unload some wagons at Grasse . 
Since you are an abbe , I will tell you that we had a chaplain in the galleys . 
And one day I saw a bishop there . 
Monseigneur is what they call him . 
He was the Bishop of Majore at Marseilles . 
He is the cure who rules over the other cures , you understand . 
He had a pointed thing , made of gold , on his head it glittered in the bright light of midday . 
We were all ranged in lines on the three sides , with cannons with lighted matches facing us . 
We could not see very well . 
He spoke but he was too far off , and we did not hear . 
That is what a bishop is like . 
While he was speaking , the Bishop had gone and shut the door , which had remained wide open . 
She brought a silver fork and spoon , which she placed on the table . 
Madame Magloire , said the Bishop , place those things as near the fire as possible . 
And turning to his guest The night wind is harsh on the Alps . 
You must be cold , sir . 
Each time that he uttered the word sir , in his voice which was so gently grave and polished , the man's face lighted up . 
Monsieur to a convict is like a glass of water to one of the shipwrecked of the Medusa . 
This lamp gives a very bad light , said the Bishop . 
Madame Magloire understood him , and went to get the two silver candlesticks from the chimney piece in Monseigneur's bed chamber , and placed them , lighted , on the table . 
Monsieur le Cure , said the man , you are good you do not despise me . 
You receive me into your house . 
You light your candles for me . 
Yet I have not concealed from you whence I come and that I am an unfortunate man . 
The Bishop , who was sitting close to him , gently touched his hand . 
You could not help telling me who you were . 
This is not my house it is the house of Jesus Christ . 
This door does not demand of him who enters whether he has a name , but whether he has a grief . 
You suffer , you are hungry and thirsty you are welcome . 
And do not thank me do not say that I receive you in my house . 
No one is at home here , except the man who needs a refuge . 
I say to you , who are passing by , that you are much more at home here than I am myself . 
What need have I to know your name ? Besides , before you told me you had one which I knew . 
The man opened his eyes in astonishment . 
Really ? You knew what I was called ? Yes , replied the Bishop , you are called my brother . 
Stop , Monsieur le Cure , exclaimed the man . 
I was very hungry when I entered here but you are so good , that I no longer know what has happened to me . 
Now there is the yellow passport . 
That is what it is like . 
Yes , resumed the Bishop , you have come from a very sad place . 
There will be more joy in heaven over the tear bathed face of a repentant sinner than over the white robes of a hundred just men . 
She had , of her own accord , added to the Bishop's ordinary fare a bottle of his old Mauves wine . 
The Bishop's face at once assumed that expression of gayety which is peculiar to hospitable natures . 
To table ! he cried vivaciously . 
As was his custom when a stranger supped with him , he made the man sit on his right . 
Mademoiselle Baptistine , perfectly peaceable and natural , took her seat at his left . 
The Bishop asked a blessing then helped the soup himself , according to his custom . 
The man began to eat with avidity . 
All at once the Bishop said It strikes me there is something missing on this table . 
Madame Magloire had , in fact , only placed the three sets of forks and spoons which were absolutely necessary . 
This graceful semblance of luxury was a kind of child's play , which was full of charm in that gentle and severe household , which raised poverty into dignity . 
CHAPTER IV DETAILS CONCERNING THE CHEESE DAIRIES OF PONTARLIER . 
This man paid no attention to any one . 
He ate with the voracity of a starving man . 
Between ourselves , the remark rather shocked me . 
My brother replied They are more fatigued than I. No , returned the man , they have more money . 
You are poor I see that plainly . 
You cannot be even a curate . 
A moment later he added Monsieur Jean Valjean , is it to Pontarlier that you are going ? With my road marked out for me . 
I think that is what the man said . 
Then he went on I must be on my way by daybreak to morrow . 
If the nights are cold , the days are hot . 
You are going to a good country , said my brother . 
During the Revolution my family was ruined . 
I took refuge in Franche Comte at first , and there I lived for some time by the toil of my hands . 
I found plenty to occupy me . 
One has only to choose . 
I think I am not mistaken in saying that those are the names which my brother mentioned . 
Yes , resumed my brother but in , one had no longer any relatives , one had only one's arms . 
They have , in the country of Pontarlier , whither you are going , Monsieur Valjean , a truly patriarchal and truly charming industry , my sister . 
It is their cheese dairies , which they call fruitieres . 
It is towards the end of April that the work of the cheese dairies begins it is towards the middle of June that the cheese makers drive their cows to the mountains . 
The man recovered his animation as he ate . 
My brother made him drink that good Mauves wine , which he does not drink himself , because he says that wine is expensive . 
My brother imparted all these details with that easy gayety of his with which you are acquainted , interspersing his words with graceful attentions to me . 
He recurred frequently to that comfortable trade of grurin , as though he wished the man to understand , without advising him directly and harshly , that this would afford him a refuge . 
This man was what I have told you . 
My brother did not even ask him from what country he came , nor what was his history . 
For in his history there is a fault , and my brother seemed to avoid everything which could remind him of it . 
By dint of reflection , I think I have comprehended what was passing in my brother's heart . 
Towards the end , when he had reached the figs , there came a knock at the door . 
It was Mother Gerbaud , with her little one in her arms . 
My brother kissed the child on the brow , and borrowed fifteen sous which I had about me to give to Mother Gerbaud . 
The man was not paying much heed to anything then . 
He was no longer talking , and he seemed very much fatigued . 
After poor old Gerbaud had taken her departure , my brother said grace then he turned to the man and said to him , You must be in great need of your bed . 
Madame Magloire cleared the table very promptly . 
I understood that we must retire , in order to allow this traveller to go to sleep , and we both went up stairs . 
Nevertheless , I sent Madame Magloire down a moment later , to carry to the man's bed a goat skin from the Black Forest , which was in my room . 
The nights are frigid , and that keeps one warm . 
It is a pity that this skin is old all the hair is falling out . 
My brother bought it while he was in Germany , at Tottlingen , near the sources of the Danube , as well as the little ivory handled knife which I use at table . 
We said our prayers in the drawing room , where we hang up the linen , and then we each retired to our own chambers , without saying a word to each other . 
At the moment when he was crossing this apartment , Madame Magloire was putting away the silverware in the cupboard near the head of the bed . 
This was her last care every evening before she went to bed . 
The Bishop installed his guest in the alcove . 
A fresh white bed had been prepared there . 
The man set the candle down on a small table . 
Well , said the Bishop , may you pass a good night . 
To morrow morning , before you set out , you shall drink a cup of warm milk from our cows . 
Thanks , Monsieur l'Abbe , said the man . 
Even at this day it is difficult for us to explain what inspired him at that moment . 
When the alcove was in use , a large serge curtain drawn from wall to wall concealed the altar . 
The Bishop knelt before this curtain as he passed and said a brief prayer . 
As for the man , he was actually so fatigued that he did not even profit by the nice white sheets . 
Midnight struck as the Bishop returned from his garden to his apartment . 
A few minutes later all were asleep in the little house . 
CHAPTER VI JEAN VALJEAN Towards the middle of the night Jean Valjean woke . 
Jean Valjean came from a poor peasant family of Brie . 
He had not learned to read in his childhood . 
When he reached man's estate , be became a tree pruner at Faverolles . 
His mother was named Jeanne Mathieu his father was called Jean Valjean or Vlajean , probably a sobriquet , and a contraction of viola Jean , here's Jean . 
Jean Valjean was of that thoughtful but not gloomy disposition which constitutes the peculiarity of affectionate natures . 
On the whole , however , there was something decidedly sluggish and insignificant about Jean Valjean in appearance , at least . 
He had lost his father and mother at a very early age . 
His mother had died of a milk fever , which had not been properly attended to . 
His father , a tree pruner , like himself , had been killed by a fall from a tree . 
All that remained to Jean Valjean was a sister older than himself , a widow with seven children , boys and girls . 
This sister had brought up Jean Valjean , and so long as she had a husband she lodged and fed her young brother . 
The eldest of the seven children was eight years old . 
Jean Valjean had just attained his twenty fifth year . 
He took the father's place , and , in his turn , supported the sister who had brought him up . 
This was done simply as a duty and even a little churlishly on the part of Jean Valjean . 
Thus his youth had been spent in rude and ill paid toil . 
He had never known a kind woman friend in his native parts . 
He had not had the time to fall in love . 
He returned at night weary , and ate his broth without uttering a word . 
If their mother had known of this marauding , she would have punished the delinquents severely . 
Jean Valjean gruffly and grumblingly paid Marie Claude for the pint of milk behind their mother's back , and the children were not punished . 
In pruning season he earned eighteen sous a day then he hired out as a hay maker , as laborer , as neat herd on a farm , as a drudge . 
He did whatever he could . 
His sister worked also but what could she do with seven little children ? It was a sad group enveloped in misery , which was being gradually annihilated . 
A very hard winter came . 
The family had no bread . 
He arrived in time to see an arm passed through a hole made by a blow from a fist , through the grating and the glass . 
The arm seized a loaf of bread and carried it off . 
Isabeau ran out in haste the robber fled at the full speed of his legs . 
Isabeau ran after him and stopped him . 
The thief had flung away the loaf , but his arm was still bleeding . 
Jean Valjean was taken before the tribunals of the time for theft and breaking and entering an inhabited house at night . 
He had a gun which he used better than any one else in the world , he was a bit of a poacher , and this injured his case . 
There exists a legitimate prejudice against poachers . 
The poacher , like the smuggler , smacks too strongly of the brigand . 
Nevertheless , we will remark cursorily , there is still an abyss between these races of men and the hideous assassin of the towns . 
The poacher lives in the forest , the smuggler lives in the mountains or on the sea . 
The cities make ferocious men because they make corrupt men . 
The mountain , the sea , the forest , make savage men they develop the fierce side , but often without destroying the humane side . 
Jean Valjean was pronounced guilty . 
The terms of the Code were explicit . 
There occur formidable hours in our civilization there are moments when the penal laws decree a shipwreck . 
What an ominous minute is that in which society draws back and consummates the irreparable abandonment of a sentient being ! Jean Valjean was condemned to five years in the galleys . 
, calls Buona Parte , was announced in Paris on that same day a great gang of galley slaves was put in chains at Bicetre . 
Jean Valjean formed a part of that gang . 
He was seated on the ground like the others . 
He did not seem to comprehend his position , except that it was horrible . 
It is probable that he , also , was disentangling from amid the vague ideas of a poor man , ignorant of everything , something excessive . 
He set out for Toulon . 
He arrived there , after a journey of twenty seven days , on a cart , with a chain on his neck . 
At Toulon he was clothed in the red cassock . 
All that had constituted his life , even to his name , was effaced he was no longer even Jean Valjean he was number , . 
In that heart , where there had been a wound , there was a scar . 
Only once , during all the time which he spent at Toulon , did he hear his sister mentioned . 
This happened , I think , towards the end of the fourth year of his captivity . 
I know not through what channels the news reached him . 
Some one who had known them in their own country had seen his sister . 
She lived in a poor street Rear Saint Sulpice , in the Rue du Gindre . 
She had with her only one child , a little boy , the youngest . 
Where were the other six ? Perhaps she did not know herself . 
Every morning she went to a printing office , No. Rue du Sabot , where she was a folder and stitcher . 
She was obliged to be there at six o'clock in the morning long before daylight in winter . 
In the same building with the printing office there was a school , and to this school she took her little boy , who was seven years old . 
At seven o'clock the school opened , and he entered . 
That is what was told to Jean Valjean . 
He heard nothing more forever . 
Nothing from them ever reached him again he never beheld them he never met them again and in the continuation of this mournful history they will not be met with any more . 
Towards the end of this fourth year Jean Valjean's turn to escape arrived . 
His comrades assisted him , as is the custom in that sad place . 
On the evening of the second day he was captured . 
He had neither eaten nor slept for thirty six hours . 
The maritime tribunal condemned him , for this crime , to a prolongation of his term for three years , which made eight years . 
In the sixth year his turn to escape occurred again he availed himself of it , but could not accomplish his flight fully . 
He was missing at roll call . 
The cannon were fired , and at night the patrol found him hidden under the keel of a vessel in process of construction he resisted the galley guards who seized him . 
This case , provided for by a special code , was punished by an addition of five years , two of them in the double chain . 
In the tenth year his turn came round again he again profited by it he succeeded no better . 
Three years for this fresh attempt . 
Finally , I think it was during his thirteenth year , he made a last attempt , and only succeeded in getting retaken at the end of four hours of absence . 
Three years for those four hours . 
In October , , he was released he had entered there in , for having broken a pane of glass and taken a loaf of bread . 
Room for a brief parenthesis . 
Claude Gaux had stolen a loaf Jean Valjean had stolen a loaf . 
English statistics prove the fact that four thefts out of five in London have hunger for their immediate cause . 
Jean Valjean had entered the galleys sobbing and shuddering he emerged impassive . 
He had entered in despair he emerged gloomy . 
What had taken place in that soul ? CHAPTER VII THE INTERIOR OF DESPAIR Let us try to say it . 
It is necessary that society should look at these things , because it is itself which creates them . 
He was , as we have said , an ignorant man , but he was not a fool . 
The light of nature was ignited in him . 
Unhappiness , which also possesses a clearness of vision of its own , augmented the small amount of daylight which existed in this mind . 
He constituted himself the tribunal . 
He began by putting himself on trial . 
He recognized the fact that he was not an innocent man unjustly punished . 
Then he asked himself Whether he had been the only one in fault in his fatal history . 
Whether it was not a serious thing , that he , a laborer , out of work , that he , an industrious man , should have lacked bread . 
And whether , the fault once committed and confessed , the chastisement had not been ferocious and disproportioned . 
Whether there had not been an excess of weights in one balance of the scale , in the one which contains expiation . 
These questions put and answered , he judged society and condemned it . 
He condemned it to his hatred . 
He made it responsible for the fate which he was suffering , and he said to himself that it might be that one day he should not hesitate to call it to account . 
Anger may be both foolish and absurd one can be irritated wrongfully one is exasperated only when there is some show of right on one's side at bottom . 
Jean Valjean felt himself exasperated . 
Men had only touched him to bruise him . 
Every contact with them had been a blow . 
Never , since his infancy , since the days of his mother , of his sister , had he ever encountered a friendly word and a kindly glance . 
From suffering to suffering , he had gradually arrived at the conviction that life is a war and that in this war he was the conquered . 
He had no other weapon than his hate . 
He resolved to whet it in the galleys and to bear it away with him when he departed . 
He was of the number who had a mind . 
He went to school at the age of forty , and learned to read , to write , to cipher . 
He felt that to fortify his intelligence was to fortify his hate . 
In certain cases , education and enlightenment can serve to eke out evil . 
This is a sad thing to say after having judged society , which had caused his unhappiness , he judged Providence , which had made society , and he condemned it also . 
Thus during nineteen years of torture and slavery , this soul mounted and at the same time fell . 
Light entered it on one side , and darkness on the other . 
Jean Valjean had not , as we have seen , an evil nature . 
He was still good when he arrived at the galleys . 
He there condemned society , and felt that he was becoming wicked he there condemned Providence , and was conscious that he was becoming impious . 
It is difficult not to indulge in meditation at this point . 
There was too much ignorance in Jean Valjean , even after his misfortune , to prevent much vagueness from still lingering there . 
At times he did not rightly know himself what he felt . 
Jean Valjean was in the shadows he suffered in the shadows he hated in the shadows one might have said that he hated in advance of himself . 
He dwelt habitually in this shadow , feeling his way like a blind man and a dreamer . 
The flash passed , the night closed in again and where was he ? He no longer knew . 
Jean Valjean's successive and obstinate attempts at escape would alone suffice to prove this strange working of the law upon the human soul . 
He escaped impetuously , like the wolf who finds his cage open . 
Instinct said to him , Flee ! Reason would have said , Remain ! But in the presence of so violent a temptation , reason vanished nothing remained but instinct . 
When he was recaptured , the fresh severities inflicted on him only served to render him still more wild . 
One detail , which we must not omit , is that he possessed a physical strength which was not approached by a single one of the denizens of the galleys . 
At work , at paying out a cable or winding up a capstan , Jean Valjean was worth four men . 
His comrades had nicknamed him Jean the Jack screw . 
Jean Valjean , who was present , supported the caryatid with his shoulder , and gave the workmen time to arrive . 
His suppleness even exceeded his strength . 
Certain convicts who were forever dreaming of escape , ended by making a veritable science of force and skill combined . 
It is the science of muscles . 
An entire system of mysterious statics is daily practised by prisoners , men who are forever envious of the flies and birds . 
To climb a vertical surface , and to find points of support where hardly a projection was visible , was play to Jean Valjean . 
He sometimes mounted thus even to the roof of the galley prison . 
He laughed not at all . 
To all appearance , he seemed to be occupied in the constant contemplation of something terrible . 
He was absorbed , in fact . 
Athwart the unhealthy perceptions of an incomplete nature and a crushed intelligence , he was confusedly conscious that some monstrous thing was resting on him . 
It seemed to him that these distant splendors , far from dissipating his night , rendered it more funereal and more black . 
All these things , realities full of spectres , phantasmagories full of realities , had eventually created for him a sort of interior state which is almost indescribable . 
At times , amid his convict toil , he paused . 
His reason , at one and the same time riper and more troubled than of yore , rose in revolt . 
Everything which had happened to him seemed to him absurd everything that surrounded him seemed to him impossible . 
He said to himself , It is a dream . 
He gazed at the galley sergeant standing a few paces from him the galley sergeant seemed a phantom to him . 
All of a sudden the phantom dealt him a blow with his cudgel . 
Visible nature hardly existed for him . 
It would almost be true to say that there existed for Jean Valjean neither sun , nor fine summer days , nor radiant sky , nor fresh April dawns . 
I know not what vent hole daylight habitually illumined his soul . 
His deliberate deeds passed through three successive phases , which natures of a certain stamp can alone traverse , reasoning , will , perseverance . 
It will be perceived that it was not without reason that Jean Valjean's passport described him as a very dangerous man . 
From year to year this soul had dried away slowly , but with fatal sureness . 
When the heart is dry , the eye is dry . 
On his departure from the galleys it had been nineteen years since he had shed a tear . 
CHAPTER VIII BILLOWS AND SHADOWS A man overboard ! What matters it ? The vessel does not halt . 
That sombre ship has a path which it is forced to pursue . 
The man disappears , then reappears he plunges , he rises again to the surface he calls , he stretches out his arms he is not heard . 
He gives vent to desperate cries from out of the depths . 
What a spectre is that retreating sail ! He gazes and gazes at it frantically . 
It retreats , it grows dim , it diminishes in size . 
Now , what has taken place ? He has slipped , he has fallen all is at an end . 
He is in the tremendous sea . 
Under foot he has nothing but what flees and crumbles . 
It seems as though all that water were hate . 
He tries to defend himself he tries to sustain himself he makes an effort he swims . 
He , his petty strength all exhausted instantly , combats the inexhaustible . 
Where , then , is the ship ? Yonder . 
Barely visible in the pale shadows of the horizon . 
The wind blows in gusts all the foam overwhelms him . 
He raises his eyes and beholds only the lividness of the clouds . 
He witnesses , amid his death pangs , the immense madness of the sea . 
He feels himself buried in those two infinities , the ocean and the sky , at one and the same time the one is a tomb the other is a shroud . 
There are no more men . 
Where is God ? He shouts . 
Help ! Help ! He still shouts on . 
Nothing on the horizon nothing in heaven . 
He implores the expanse , the waves , the seaweed , the reef they are deaf . 
He beseeches the tempest the imperturbable tempest obeys only the infinite . 
Around him darkness , fog , solitude , the stormy and nonsentient tumult , the undefined curling of those wild waters . 
In him horror and fatigue . 
Not a point of support . 
He thinks of the gloomy adventures of the corpse in the limitless shadow . 
The bottomless cold paralyzes him . 
His hands contract convulsively they close , and grasp nothingness . 
The sea is the immensity of wretchedness . 
The soul , going down stream in this gulf , may become a corpse . 
But it was not long before this ray paled . 
Jean Valjean had been dazzled by the idea of liberty . 
He had believed in a new life . 
He very speedily perceived what sort of liberty it is to which a yellow passport is provided . 
And this was encompassed with much bitterness . 
He had calculated that his earnings , during his sojourn in the galleys , ought to amount to a hundred and seventy one francs . 
He had understood nothing of this , and had thought himself wronged . 
Let us say the word robbed . 
On the day following his liberation , he saw , at Grasse , in front of an orange flower distillery , some men engaged in unloading bales . 
Business was pressing they were accepted . 
He was intelligent , robust , adroit he did his best the master seemed pleased . 
While he was at work , a gendarme passed , observed him , and demanded his papers . 
It was necessary to show him the yellow passport . 
That done , Jean Valjean resumed his labor . 
A little while before he had questioned one of the workmen as to the amount which they earned each day at this occupation he had been told thirty sous . 
When evening arrived , as he was forced to set out again on the following day , he presented himself to the owner of the distillery and requested to be paid . 
The owner did not utter a word , but handed him fifteen sous . 
He was told , That is enough for thee . 
The master looked him straight between the eyes , and said to him Beware of the prison . 
There , again , he considered that he had been robbed . 
Society , the State , by diminishing his hoard , had robbed him wholesale . 
Now it was the individual who was robbing him at retail . 
One gets free from the galleys , but not from the sentence . 
That is what happened to him at Grasse . 
We have seen in what manner he was received at D CHAPTER X THE MAN AROUSED As the Cathedral clock struck two in the morning , Jean Valjean awoke . 
What woke him was that his bed was too good . 
It was nearly twenty years since he had slept in a bed , and , although he had not undressed , the sensation was too novel not to disturb his slumbers . 
He had slept more than four hours . 
His fatigue had passed away . 
He was accustomed not to devote many hours to repose . 
He opened his eyes and stared into the gloom which surrounded him then he closed them again , with the intention of going to sleep once more . 
When many varied sensations have agitated the day , when various matters preoccupy the mind , one falls asleep once , but not a second time . 
Sleep comes more easily than it returns . 
This is what happened to Jean Valjean . 
He could not get to sleep again , and he fell to thinking . 
He was at one of those moments when the thoughts which one has in one's mind are troubled . 
There was a sort of dark confusion in his brain . 
Many thoughts occurred to him but there was one which kept constantly presenting itself afresh , and which drove away all others . 
We will mention this thought at once he had observed the six sets of silver forks and spoons and the ladle which Madame Magloire had placed on the table . 
Those six sets of silver haunted him . 
He had taken careful note of this cupboard . 
On the right , as you entered from the dining room . 
From the ladle one could get at least two hundred francs . 
Double what he had earned in nineteen years . 
It is true that he would have earned more if the administration had not robbed him . 
His mind wavered for a whole hour in fluctuations with which there was certainly mingled some struggle . 
All of a sudden he stooped down , removed his shoes and placed them softly on the mat beside the bed then he resumed his thoughtful attitude , and became motionless once more . 
The checkered pattern of that suspender recurred incessantly to his mind . 
He remained in this situation , and would have so remained indefinitely , even until daybreak , had not the clock struck one the half or quarter hour . 
The night was not very dark there was a full moon , across which coursed large clouds driven by the wind . 
This created , outdoors , alternate shadow and gleams of light , eclipses , then bright openings of the clouds and indoors a sort of twilight . 
On arriving at the window , Jean Valjean examined it . 
It had no grating it opened in the garden and was fastened , according to the fashion of the country , only by a small pin . 
He opened it but as a rush of cold and piercing air penetrated the room abruptly , he closed it again immediately . 
He scrutinized the garden with that attentive gaze which studies rather than looks . 
The garden was enclosed by a tolerably low white wall , easy to climb . 
It resembled a short bar of iron , pointed like a pike at one end . 
It would have been difficult to distinguish in that darkness for what employment that bit of iron could have been designed . 
Perhaps it was a lever possibly it was a club . 
In the daytime it would have been possible to recognize it as nothing more than a miner's candlestick . 
These miners' candlesticks are of massive iron , terminated at the lower extremity by a point , by means of which they are stuck into the rock . 
On arriving at this door , he found it ajar . 
The Bishop had not closed it . 
CHAPTER XI WHAT HE DOES Jean Valjean listened . 
He gave the door a push . 
He pushed it gently with the tip of his finger , lightly , with the furtive and uneasy gentleness of a cat which is desirous of entering . 
The door yielded to this pressure , and made an imperceptible and silent movement , which enlarged the opening a little . 
He waited a moment then gave the door a second and a bolder push . 
It continued to yield in silence . 
The opening was now large enough to allow him to pass . 
But near the door there stood a little table , which formed an embarrassing angle with it , and barred the entrance . 
Jean Valjean recognized the difficulty . 
It was necessary , at any cost , to enlarge the aperture still further . 
He decided on his course of action , and gave the door a third push , more energetic than the two preceding . 
This time a badly oiled hinge suddenly emitted amid the silence a hoarse and prolonged cry . 
The noise of the hinge rang in his ears with something of the piercing and formidable sound of the trump of the Day of Judgment . 
He halted , shuddering , bewildered , and fell back from the tips of his toes upon his heels . 
For a moment he thought himself lost . 
He remained where he was , petrified like the statue of salt , not daring to make a movement . 
The door had fallen wide open . 
He ventured to peep into the next room . 
Nothing was moving in the house . 
The noise made by the rusty hinge had not awakened any one . 
This first danger was past but there still reigned a frightful tumult within him . 
Nevertheless , he did not retreat . 
Even when he had thought himself lost , he had not drawn back . 
His only thought now was to finish as soon as possible . 
He took a step and entered the room . 
This room was in a state of perfect calm . 
Jean Valjean advanced with precaution , taking care not to knock against the furniture . 
He could hear , at the extremity of the room , the even and tranquil breathing of the sleeping Bishop . 
He suddenly came to a halt . 
He was near the bed . 
He had arrived there sooner than he had thought for . 
Nature sometimes mingles her effects and her spectacles with our actions with sombre and intelligent appropriateness , as though she desired to make us reflect . 
For the last half hour a large cloud had covered the heavens . 
He lay in his bed almost completely dressed , on account of the cold of the Basses Alps , in a garment of brown wool , which covered his arms to the wrists . 
His whole face was illumined with a vague expression of satisfaction , of hope , and of felicity . 
It was more than a smile , and almost a radiance . 
He bore upon his brow the indescribable reflection of a light which was invisible . 
The soul of the just contemplates in sleep a mysterious heaven . 
A reflection of that heaven rested on the Bishop . 
It was , at the same time , a luminous transparency , for that heaven was within him . 
That heaven was his conscience . 
At the moment when the ray of moonlight superposed itself , so to speak , upon that inward radiance , the sleeping Bishop seemed as in a glory . 
It remained , however , gentle and veiled in an ineffable half light . 
There was something almost divine in this man , who was thus august , without being himself aware of it . 
Jean Valjean was in the shadow , and stood motionless , with his iron candlestick in his hand , frightened by this luminous old man . 
Never had he beheld anything like this . 
The moral world has no grander spectacle than this a troubled and uneasy conscience , which has arrived on the brink of an evil action , contemplating the slumber of the just . 
That slumber in that isolation , and with a neighbor like himself , had about it something sublime , of which he was vaguely but imperiously conscious . 
No one could have told what was passing within him , not even himself . 
In order to attempt to form an idea of it , it is necessary to think of the most violent of things in the presence of the most gentle . 
Even on his visage it would have been impossible to distinguish anything with certainty . 
It was a sort of haggard astonishment . 
He gazed at it , and that was all . 
But what was his thought ? It would have been impossible to divine it . 
What was evident was , that he was touched and astounded . 
But what was the nature of this emotion ? His eye never quitted the old man . 
The only thing which was clearly to be inferred from his attitude and his physiognomy was a strange indecision . 
One would have said that he was hesitating between the two abysses , the one in which one loses one's self and that in which one saves one's self . 
He seemed prepared to crush that skull or to kiss that hand . 
The Bishop continued to sleep in profound peace beneath that terrifying gaze . 
CHAPTER XII THE BISHOP WORKS The next morning at sunrise Monseigneur Bienvenu was strolling in his garden . 
Madame Magloire ran up to him in utter consternation . 
Monseigneur , Monseigneur ! she exclaimed , does your Grace know where the basket of silver is ? Yes , replied the Bishop . 
Jesus the Lord be blessed ! she resumed I did not know what had become of it . 
The Bishop had just picked up the basket in a flower bed . 
He presented it to Madame Magloire . 
Nothing in it ! And the silver ? Ah , returned the Bishop , so it is the silver which troubles you ? I don't know where it is . 
Great , good God ! It is stolen ! That man who was here last night has stolen it . 
In a twinkling , with all the vivacity of an alert old woman , Madame Magloire had rushed to the oratory , entered the alcove , and returned to the Bishop . 
The Bishop had just bent down , and was sighing as he examined a plant of cochlearia des Guillons , which the basket had broken as it fell across the bed . 
He rose up at Madame Magloire's cry . 
The coping of the wall had been torn away . 
Stay ! yonder is the way he went . 
He jumped over into Cochefilet Lane . 
Another silence ensued then the Bishop went on Madame Magloire , I have for a long time detained that silver wrongfully . 
It belonged to the poor . 
Who was that man ? A poor man , evidently . 
Alas ! Jesus ! returned Madame Magloire . 
It is not for my sake , nor for Mademoiselle's . 
It makes no difference to us . 
But it is for the sake of Monseigneur . 
What is Monseigneur to eat with now ? The Bishop gazed at her with an air of amazement . 
Ah , come ! Are there no such things as pewter forks and spoons ? Madame Magloire shrugged her shoulders . 
Iron forks and spoons , then . 
Madame Magloire made an expressive grimace . 
Very well , said the Bishop wooden ones then . 
A few moments later he was breakfasting at the very table at which Jean Valjean had sat on the previous evening . 
Come in , said the Bishop . 
A singular and violent group made its appearance on the threshold . 
Three men were holding a fourth man by the collar . 
The three men were gendarmes the other was Jean Valjean . 
A brigadier of gendarmes , who seemed to be in command of the group , was standing near the door . 
He entered and advanced to the Bishop , making a military salute . 
At this word , Jean Valjean , who was dejected and seemed overwhelmed , raised his head with an air of stupefaction . 
So he is not the cure ? Silence ! said the gendarme . 
He is Monseigneur the Bishop . 
In the meantime , Monseigneur Bienvenu had advanced as quickly as his great age permitted . 
Ah ! here you are ! he exclaimed , looking at Jean Valjean . 
I am glad to see you . 
Well , but how is this ? I gave you the candlesticks too , which are of silver like the rest , and for which you can certainly get two hundred francs . 
Monseigneur , said the brigadier of gendarmes , so what this man said is true , then ? We came across him . 
He was walking like a man who is running away . 
We stopped him to look into the matter . 
And you have brought him back here ? It is a mistake . 
In that case , replied the brigadier , we can let him go ? Certainly , replied the Bishop . 
The gendarmes released Jean Valjean , who recoiled . 
Is it true that I am to be released ? he said , in an almost inarticulate voice , and as though he were talking in his sleep . 
Yes , thou art released dost thou not understand ? said one of the gendarmes . 
My friend , resumed the Bishop , before you go , here are your candlesticks . 
He stepped to the chimney piece , took the two silver candlesticks , and brought them to Jean Valjean . 
The two women looked on without uttering a word , without a gesture , without a look which could disconcert the Bishop . 
Jean Valjean was trembling in every limb . 
He took the two candlesticks mechanically , and with a bewildered air . 
Now , said the Bishop , go in peace . 
By the way , when you return , my friend , it is not necessary to pass through the garden . 
You can always enter and depart through the street door . 
It is never fastened with anything but a latch , either by day or by night . 
Then , turning to the gendarmes You may retire , gentlemen . 
Jean Valjean was like a man on the point of fainting . 
The Bishop drew near to him , and said in a low voice Do not forget , never forget , that you have promised to use this money in becoming an honest man . 
Jean Valjean , who had no recollection of ever having promised anything , remained speechless . 
The Bishop had emphasized the words when he uttered them . 
He resumed with solemnity Jean Valjean , my brother , you no longer belong to evil , but to good . 
It is your soul that I buy from you I withdraw it from black thoughts and the spirit of perdition , and I give it to God . 
CHAPTER XIII LITTLE GERVAIS Jean Valjean left the town as though he were fleeing from it . 
He set out at a very hasty pace through the fields , taking whatever roads and paths presented themselves to him , without perceiving that he was incessantly retracing his steps . 
He wandered thus the whole morning , without having eaten anything and without feeling hungry . 
He was the prey of a throng of novel sensations . 
He was conscious of a sort of rage he did not know against whom it was directed . 
He could not have told whether he was touched or humiliated . 
There came over him at moments a strange emotion which he resisted and to which he opposed the hardness acquired during the last twenty years of his life . 
This state of mind fatigued him . 
He perceived with dismay that the sort of frightful calm which the injustice of his misfortune had conferred upon him was giving way within him . 
He asked himself what would replace this . 
At times he would have actually preferred to be in prison with the gendarmes , and that things should not have happened in this way it would have agitated him less . 
These memories were almost intolerable to him , it was so long since they had recurred to him . 
Unutterable thoughts assembled within him in this manner all day long . 
There was nothing on the horizon except the Alps . 
Not even the spire of a distant village . 
Jean Valjean might have been three leagues distant from D A path which intersected the plain passed a few paces from the bush . 
In the middle of this meditation , which would have contributed not a little to render his rags terrifying to any one who might have encountered him , a joyous sound became audible . 
Among this money there was one forty sou piece . 
This time the forty sou piece escaped him , and went rolling towards the brushwood until it reached Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean set his foot upon it . 
In the meantime , the child had looked after his coin and had caught sight of him . 
He showed no astonishment , but walked straight up to the man . 
The spot was absolutely solitary . 
As far as the eye could see there was not a person on the plain or on the path . 
The only sound was the tiny , feeble cries of a flock of birds of passage , which was traversing the heavens at an immense height . 
The child was standing with his back to the sun , which cast threads of gold in his hair and empurpled with its blood red gleam the savage face of Jean Valjean . 
Sir , said the little Savoyard , with that childish confidence which is composed of ignorance and innocence , my money . 
What is your name ? said Jean Valjean . 
Go away , said Jean Valjean . 
Sir , resumed the child , give me back my money . 
Jean Valjean dropped his head , and made no reply . 
The child began again , My money , sir . 
Jean Valjean's eyes remained fixed on the earth . 
My piece of money ! cried the child , my white piece ! my silver ! It seemed as though Jean Valjean did not hear him . 
The child grasped him by the collar of his blouse and shook him . 
At the same time he made an effort to displace the big iron shod shoe which rested on his treasure . 
I want my piece of money ! my piece of forty sous ! The child wept . 
Jean Valjean raised his head . 
Nevertheless , lack of breath forced him to halt after a certain distance , and Jean Valjean heard him sobbing , in the midst of his own revery . 
At the end of a few moments the child had disappeared . 
The shadows were descending around Jean Valjean . 
He had eaten nothing all day it is probable that he was feverish . 
He had remained standing and had not changed his attitude after the child's flight . 
The breath heaved his chest at long and irregular intervals . 
All at once he shivered he had just begun to feel the chill of evening . 
He settled his cap more firmly on his brow , sought mechanically to cross and button his blouse , advanced a step and stopped to pick up his cudgel . 
At that moment he caught sight of the forty sou piece , which his foot had half ground into the earth , and which was shining among the pebbles . 
It was as though he had received a galvanic shock . 
What is this ? he muttered between his teeth . 
Night was falling , the plain was cold and vague , great banks of violet haze were rising in the gleam of the twilight . 
He said , Ah ! and set out rapidly in the direction in which the child had disappeared . 
After about thirty paces he paused , looked about him and saw nothing . 
Then he shouted with all his might Little Gervais ! Little Gervais ! He paused and waited . 
The landscape was gloomy and deserted . 
He was encompassed by space . 
There was nothing around him but an obscurity in which his gaze was lost , and a silence which engulfed his voice . 
An icy north wind was blowing , and imparted to things around him a sort of lugubrious life . 
The bushes shook their thin little arms with incredible fury . 
One would have said that they were threatening and pursuing some one . 
But the child was no doubt already far away . 
He encountered a priest on horseback . 
He stepped up to him and said Monsieur le Cure , have you seen a child pass ? No , said the priest . 
One named Little Gervais ? I have seen no one . 
He drew two five franc pieces from his money bag and handed them to the priest . 
Monsieur le Cure , this is for your poor people . 
Monsieur le Cure , he was a little lad , about ten years old , with a marmot , I think , and a hurdy gurdy . 
One of those Savoyards , you know ? I have not seen him . 
Little Gervais ? There are no villages here ? Can you tell me ? If he is like what you say , my friend , he is a little stranger . 
Such persons pass through these parts . 
We know nothing of them . 
Jean Valjean seized two more coins of five francs each with violence , and gave them to the priest . 
For your poor , he said . 
Then he added , wildly Monsieur l'Abbe , have me arrested . 
The priest put spurs to his horse and fled in haste , much alarmed . 
Jean Valjean set out on a run , in the direction which he had first taken . 
In this way he traversed a tolerably long distance , gazing , calling , shouting , but he met no one . 
At length , at a spot where three paths intersected each other , he stopped . 
He murmured yet once more , Little Gervais ! but in a feeble and almost inarticulate voice . 
It was the first time that he had wept in nineteen years . 
When Jean Valjean left the Bishop's house , he was , as we have seen , quite thrown out of everything that had been his thought hitherto . 
He could not yield to the evidence of what was going on within him . 
He hardened himself against the angelic action and the gentle words of the old man . 
You have promised me to become an honest man . 
I take it away from the spirit of perversity I give it to the good God . 
This recurred to his mind unceasingly . 
To this celestial kindness he opposed pride , which is the fortress of evil within us . 
In the presence of these lights , he proceeded like a man who is intoxicated . 
The future life , the possible life which offered itself to him henceforth , all pure and radiant , filled him with tremors and anxiety . 
He no longer knew where he really was . 
Like an owl , who should suddenly see the sun rise , the convict had been dazzled and blinded , as it were , by virtue . 
In this state of mind he had encountered little Gervais , and had robbed him of his forty sous . 
When intelligence re awakened and beheld that action of the brute , Jean Valjean recoiled with anguish and uttered a cry of terror . 
Excess of unhappiness had , as we have remarked , made him in some sort a visionary . 
This , then , was in the nature of a vision . 
He actually saw that Jean Valjean , that sinister face , before him . 
He had almost reached the point of asking himself who that man was , and he was horrified by him . 
His brain was going through one of those violent and yet perfectly calm moments in which revery is so profound that it absorbs reality . 
One no longer beholds the object which one has before one , and one sees , as though apart from one's self , the figures which one has in one's own mind . 
On scrutinizing this light which appeared to his conscience with more attention , he recognized the fact that it possessed a human form and that this torch was the Bishop . 
His conscience weighed in turn these two men thus placed before it , the Bishop and Jean Valjean . 
Nothing less than the first was required to soften the second . 
After a certain time he was no longer anything more than a shade . 
All at once he disappeared . 
The Bishop alone remained he filled the whole soul of this wretched man with a magnificent radiance . 
Jean Valjean wept for a long time . 
He wept burning tears , he sobbed with more weakness than a woman , with more fright than a child . 
As he wept , daylight penetrated more and more clearly into his soul an extraordinary light a light at once ravishing and terrible . 
He examined his life , and it seemed horrible to him his soul , and it seemed frightful to him . 
In the meantime a gentle light rested over this life and this soul . 
It seemed to him that he beheld Satan by the light of Paradise . 
How many hours did he weep thus ? What did he do after he had wept ? Whither did he go ! No one ever knew . 
IN THE YEAR CHAPTER I THE YEAR is the year which Louis XVIII . 
, with a certain royal assurance which was not wanting in pride , entitled the twenty second of his reign . 
It is the year in which M. Bruguiere de Sorsum was celebrated . 
All the hairdressers' shops , hoping for powder and the return of the royal bird , were besmeared with azure and decked with fleurs de lys . 
In fashion swallowed up little boys of from four to six years of age in vast caps of morocco leather with ear tabs resembling Esquimaux mitres . 
The French army was dressed in white , after the mode of the Austrian the regiments were called legions instead of numbers they bore the names of departments Napoleon was at St . 
Helena and since England refused him green cloth , he was having his old coats turned . 
In Pelligrini sang Mademoiselle Bigottini danced Potier reigned Odry did not yet exist . 
Madame Saqui had succeeded to Forioso . 
There were still Prussians in France . 
M. Delalot was a personage . 
Legitimacy had just asserted itself by cutting off the hand , then the head , of Pleignier , of Carbonneau , and of Tolleron . 
These were the columns which two years before had upheld the Emperor's platform in the Champ de Mai . 
They were blackened here and there with the scorches of the bivouac of Austrians encamped near Gros Caillou . 
Two or three of these columns had disappeared in these bivouac fires , and had warmed the large hands of the Imperial troops . 
The Field of May had this remarkable point that it had been held in the month of June and in the Field of March . 
In this year , , two things were popular the Voltaire Touquet and the snuff box a la Charter . 
The most recent Parisian sensation was the crime of Dautun , who had thrown his brother's head into the fountain of the Flower Market . 
Colonel Selves was going to Egypt to become Soliman Pasha . 
The palace of Thermes , in the Rue de La Harpe , served as a shop for a cooper . 
, was still to be seen . 
The Duchesse de Duras read to three or four friends her unpublished Ourika , in her boudoir furnished by X. in sky blue satin . 
The N's were scratched off the Louvre . 
The French Academy had given for its prize subject , The Happiness procured through Study . 
M. Bellart was officially eloquent . 
In his shadow could be seen germinating that future advocate general of Broe , dedicated to the sarcasms of Paul Louis Courier . 
There was a false Chateaubriand , named Marchangy , in the interim , until there should be a false Marchangy , named d'Arlincourt . 
Claire d'Albe and Malek Adel were masterpieces Madame Cottin was proclaimed the chief writer of the epoch . 
The Institute had the academician , Napoleon Bonaparte , stricken from its list of members . 
In the Council of Ministers the question was agitated whether vignettes representing slack rope performances , which adorned Franconi's advertising posters , and which attracted throngs of street urchins , should be tolerated . 
All the young girls were singing the Hermit of Saint Avelle , with words by Edmond Geraud . 
The Yellow Dwarf was transferred into Mirror . 
The Cafe Lemblin stood up for the Emperor , against the Cafe Valois , which upheld the Bourbons . 
The Duc de Berri , already surveyed from the shadow by Louvel , had just been married to a princess of Sicily . 
Madame de Stael had died a year previously . 
The body guard hissed Mademoiselle Mars . 
The grand newspapers were all very small . 
Their form was restricted , but their liberty was great . 
La Minerve called Chateaubriand Chateaubriant . 
That t made the good middle class people laugh heartily at the expense of the great writer . 
In journals which sold themselves , prostituted journalists , insulted the exiles of . 
No one is ignorant of the fact that letters sent to an exile by post very rarely reached him , as the police made it their religious duty to intercept them . 
This is no new fact Descartes complained of it in his exile . 
All sensible people were agreed that the era of revolution had been closed forever by King Louis XVIII . 
, surnamed The Immortal Author of the Charter . 
On the platform of the Pont Neuf , the word Redivivus was carved on the pedestal that awaited the statue of Henry IV . 
M. Piet , in the Rue Therese , No. , was making the rough draft of his privy assembly to consolidate the monarchy . 
The leaders of the Right said at grave conjunctures , We must write to Bacot . 
L'Epingle Noire was already plotting in his own quarter . 
Delaverderie was conferring with Trogoff . 
M. Decazes , who was liberal to a degree , reigned . 
Criticism , assuming an authoritative tone , preferred Lafon to Talma . 
M. de Feletez signed himself A. M. Hoffmann signed himself Z. Charles Nodier wrote Therese Aubert . 
The collegians , decorated on the collar with a golden fleur de lys , fought each other apropos of the King of Rome . 
The city of Paris was having the dome of the Invalides regilded at its own expense . 
People took part for or against Cugnet de Montarlot . 
Fabvier was factious Bavoux was revolutionary . 
The Liberal , Pelicier , published an edition of Voltaire , with the following title Works of Voltaire , of the French Academy . 
That will attract purchasers , said the ingenious editor . 
As Cardinal Fesch refused to resign , M. de Pins , Archbishop of Amasie , administered the diocese of Lyons . 
The quarrel over the valley of Dappes was begun between Switzerland and France by a memoir from Captain , afterwards General Dufour . 
Saint Simon , ignored , was erecting his sublime dream . 
There was a celebrated Fourier at the Academy of Science , whom posterity has forgotten and in some garret an obscure Fourier , whom the future will recall . 
Lord Byron was beginning to make his mark a note to a poem by Millevoye introduced him to France in these terms a certain Lord Baron . 
David d'Angers was trying to work in marble . 
it was a piece of mechanism which was not good for much a sort of plaything , the idle dream of a dream ridden inventor an utopia a steamboat . 
The Parisians stared indifferently at this useless thing . 
The Faubourg Saint Germain and the pavilion de Marsan wished to have M. Delaveau for prefect of police , on account of his piety . 
Dupuytren and Recamier entered into a quarrel in the amphitheatre of the School of Medicine , and threatened each other with their fists on the subject of the divinity of Jesus Christ . 
Cuvier , with one eye on Genesis and the other on nature , tried to please bigoted reaction by reconciling fossils with texts and by making mastodons flatter Moses . 
M. Francois de Neufchateau , the praiseworthy cultivator of the memory of Parmentier , made a thousand efforts to have pomme de terre potato pronounced parmentiere , and succeeded therein not at all . 
The Abbe Gregoire , ex bishop , ex conventionary , ex senator , had passed , in the royalist polemics , to the state of Infamous Gregoire . 
The locution of which we have made use passed to the state of has been condemned as a neologism by M. Royer Collard . 
This is what floats up confusedly , pell mell , for the year , and is now forgotten . 
History neglects nearly all these particulars , and cannot do otherwise the infinity would overwhelm it . 
Nevertheless , these details , which are wrongly called trivial , there are no trivial facts in humanity , nor little leaves in vegetation , are useful . 
It is of the physiognomy of the years that the physiognomy of the centuries is composed . 
In this year of four young Parisians arranged a fine farce . 
They were four Oscars for , at that epoch , Arthurs did not yet exist . 
Burn for him the perfumes of Araby ! exclaimed romance . 
Naturally , each of them had his mistress . 
One of the four was called the young , because she was the youngest of them , and one was called the old the old one was twenty three . 
Dahlia , Zephine , and especially Favourite , could not have said as much . 
These badly guarded souls listen . 
Hence the falls which they accomplish , and the stones which are thrown at them . 
They are overwhelmed with splendor of all that is immaculate and inaccessible . 
Alas ! what if the Jungfrau were hungry ? Favourite having been in England , was admired by Dahlia and Zephine . 
She had had an establishment of her own very early in life . 
Her father was an old unmarried professor of mathematics , a brutal man and a braggart , who went out to give lessons in spite of his age . 
This professor , when he was a young man , had one day seen a chambermaid's gown catch on a fender he had fallen in love in consequence of this accident . 
The result had been Favourite . 
She met her father from time to time , and he bowed to her . 
Then the old woman opened the sideboard , and ate and drank , had a mattress which she owned brought in , and installed herself . 
It was having rosy nails that were too pretty which had drawn Dahlia to Listolier , to others perhaps , to idleness . 
How could she make such nails work ? She who wishes to remain virtuous must not have pity on her hands . 
As for Zephine , she had conquered Fameuil by her roguish and caressing little way of saying Yes , sir . 
The young men were comrades the young girls were friends . 
Such loves are always accompanied by such friendships . 
Good ! some one will exclaim and Tholomyes ? Solomon would reply that love forms a part of wisdom . 
We will confine ourselves to saying that the love of Fantine was a first love , a sole love , a faithful love . 
She alone , of all the four , was not called thou by a single one of them . 
Fantine was one of those beings who blossom , so to speak , from the dregs of the people . 
Though she had emerged from the most unfathomable depths of social shadow , she bore on her brow the sign of the anonymous and the unknown . 
She was born at M. sur M. Of what parents ? Who can say ? She had never known father or mother . 
Why Fantine ? She had never borne any other name . 
At the epoch of her birth the Directory still existed . 
She had no family name she had no family no baptismal name the Church no longer existed . 
She bore the name which pleased the first random passer by , who had encountered her , when a very small child , running bare legged in the street . 
She received the name as she received the water from the clouds upon her brow when it rained . 
She was called little Fantine . 
No one knew more than that . 
This human creature had entered life in just this way . 
At the age of ten , Fantine quitted the town and went to service with some farmers in the neighborhood . 
At fifteen she came to Paris to seek her fortune . 
Fantine was beautiful , and remained pure as long as she could . 
She was a lovely blonde , with fine teeth . 
She had gold and pearls for her dowry but her gold was on her head , and her pearls were in her mouth . 
She worked for her living then , still for the sake of her living , for the heart , also , has its hunger , she loved . 
An amour for him passion for her . 
The streets of the Latin quarter , filled with throngs of students and grisettes , saw the beginning of their dream . 
There is a way of avoiding which resembles seeking . 
In short , the eclogue took place . 
Blachevelle , Listolier , and Fameuil formed a sort of group of which Tholomyes was the head . 
It was he who possessed the wit . 
Tholomyes was the antique old student he was rich he had an income of four thousand francs four thousand francs ! a splendid scandal on Mount Sainte Genevieve . 
Tholomyes was a fast man of thirty , and badly preserved . 
He was wrinkled and toothless , and he had the beginning of a bald spot , of which he himself said with sadness , the skull at thirty , the knee at forty . 
His digestion was mediocre , and he had been attacked by a watering in one eye . 
But in proportion as his youth disappeared , gayety was kindled he replaced his teeth with buffooneries , his hair with mirth , his health with irony , his weeping eye laughed incessantly . 
He was dilapidated but still in flower . 
His youth , which was packing up for departure long before its time , beat a retreat in good order , bursting with laughter , and no one saw anything but fire . 
He had had a piece rejected at the Vaudeville . 
He made a few verses now and then . 
In addition to this he doubted everything to the last degree , which is a vast force in the eyes of the weak . 
Being thus ironical and bald , he was the leader . 
Iron is an English word . 
We have promised them solemnly that we would . 
The moment has arrived , it seems to me let us discuss the question . 
A smoky tap room presented itself they entered , and the remainder of their confidential colloquy was lost in shadow . 
The result of these shades was a dazzling pleasure party which took place on the following Sunday , the four young men inviting the four young girls . 
CHAPTER III FOUR AND FOUR It is hard nowadays to picture to one's self what a pleasure trip of students and grisettes to the country was like , forty five years ago . 
The Paris of is a city which has France for its outskirts . 
The four couples conscientiously went through with all the country follies possible at that time . 
The vacation was beginning , and it was a warm , bright , summer day . 
That is why they rose at five o'clock in the morning . 
The young girls rustled and chatted like warblers escaped from their cage . 
It was a perfect delirium . 
From time to time they bestowed little taps on the young men . 
Matutinal intoxication of life ! adorable years ! the wings of the dragonfly quiver . 
All four were madly pretty . 
Zephine and Dahlia had their hair dressed in rolls . 
Listolier and Fameuil , who were engaged in discussing their professors , explained to Fantine the difference that existed between M. Delvincourt and M. Blondeau . 
Blachevelle seemed to have been created expressly to carry Favourite's single bordered , imitation India shawl of Ternaux's manufacture , on his arm on Sundays . 
Tholomyes followed , dominating the group . 
Nothing was sacred to him he smoked . 
That Tholomyes is astounding ! said the others , with veneration . 
What trousers ! What energy ! As for Fantine , she was a joy to behold . 
Her splendid teeth had evidently received an office from God , laughter . 
She preferred to carry her little hat of sewed straw , with its long white strings , in her hand rather than on her head . 
Her rosy lips babbled enchantingly . 
There was something indescribably harmonious and striking about her entire dress . 
The most ingenious is , at times , the wisest . 
Fantine was beautiful , without being too conscious of it . 
This daughter of the shadows was thoroughbred . 
She was beautiful in the two ways style and rhythm . 
Style is the form of the ideal rhythm is its movement . 
We have said that Fantine was joy she was also modesty . 
She remained a little astonished . 
This chaste astonishment is the shade of difference which separates Psyche from Venus . 
Fantine had the long , white , fine fingers of the vestal virgin who stirs the ashes of the sacred fire with a golden pin . 
This sudden and sometimes severely accentuated gravity resembled the disdain of a goddess . 
Love is a fault so be it . 
Fantine was innocence floating high over fault . 
CHAPTER IV THOLOMYES IS SO MERRY THAT HE SINGS A SPANISH DITTY That day was composed of dawn , from one end to the other . 
All nature seemed to be having a holiday , and to be laughing . 
The four merry couples , mingled with the sun , the fields , the flowers , the trees , were resplendent . 
You always have a queer look about you , said Favourite to her . 
These passages of happy couples are a profound appeal to life and nature , and make a caress and light spring forth from everything . 
Hence the popularity of spring among thinkers . 
They laugh and hunt , and there is in the air the brilliance of an apotheosis what a transfiguration effected by love ! Notaries' clerks are gods . 
Beautiful women waste themselves sweetly . 
They think that this will never come to an end . 
Philosophers , poets , painters , observe these ecstasies and know not what to make of it , so greatly are they dazzled by it . 
There was always an admiring crowd about it . 
At Issy an incident occurred . 
The truly national park , at that time owned by Bourguin the contractor , happened to be wide open . 
They had stoutly shaken the swing attached to the two chestnut trees celebrated by the Abbe de Bernis . 
I receive at thy feet Fantine alone refused to swing . 
I don't like to have people put on airs like that , muttered Favourite , with a good deal of acrimony . 
After leaving the asses there was a fresh delight they crossed the Seine in a boat , and proceeding from Passy on foot they reached the barrier of l'Etoile . 
From time to time Favourite exclaimed And the surprise ? I claim the surprise . 
This was the state which the shepherd idyl , begun at five o'clock in the morning , had reached at half past four in the afternoon . 
The sun was setting their appetites were satisfied . 
The Champs Elysees , filled with sunshine and with people , were nothing but light and dust , the two things of which glory is composed . 
The horses of Marly , those neighing marbles , were prancing in a cloud of gold . 
Carriages were going and coming . 
The Place de la Concorde , which had become the Place Louis XV . 
once more , was choked with happy promenaders . 
Many wore the silver fleur de lys suspended from the white watered ribbon , which had not yet wholly disappeared from button holes in the year . 
Give us back our father from Ghent , Give us back our father . 
They are as heedless and as indolent as cats . 
The populace is restless in the provinces it is not in Paris . 
These are very pretty men , Sire . 
It would take all of two of them to make one of your grenadiers . 
There is nothing to be feared on the part of the populace of Paris the capital . 
In short , it is an amiable rabble . 
Moreover , the cat so despised by Count Angles possessed the esteem of the republics of old . 
The ingenuous police of the Restoration beheld the populace of Paris in too rose colored a light it is not so much of an amiable rabble as it is thought . 
Give him a pike , he will produce the th of August give him a gun , you will have Austerlitz . 
He is Napoleon's stay and Danton's resource . 
Is it a question of country , he enlists is it a question of liberty , he tears up the pavements . 
Beware ! his hair filled with wrath , is epic his blouse drapes itself like the folds of a chlamys . 
Take care ! he will make of the first Rue Grenetat which comes to hand Caudine Forks . 
It is , thanks to the suburban man of Paris , that the Revolution , mixed with arms , conquers Europe . 
He sings it is his delight . 
Proportion his song to his nature , and you will see ! As long as he has for refrain nothing but la Carmagnole , he only overthrows Louis XVI . 
make him sing the Marseillaise , and he will free the world . 
This note jotted down on the margin of Angles' report , we will return to our four couples . 
The dinner , as we have said , was drawing to its close . 
Fameuil and Dahlia were humming . 
Zephine was laughing , Fantine smiling , Listolier blowing a wooden trumpet which he had purchased at Saint Cloud . 
Favourite gazed tenderly at Blachevelle and said Blachevelle , I adore you . 
This called forth a question from Blachevelle What would you do , Favourite , if I were to cease to love you ? I ! cried Favourite . 
Blachevelle smiled with the voluptuous self conceit of a man who is tickled in his self love . 
I love the little fellow opposite me in my house . 
He is very nice , that young man do you know him ? One can see that he is an actor by profession . 
As soon as he comes in , his mother says to him Ah ! mon Dieu ! my peace of mind is gone . 
There he goes with his shouting . 
He is the son of a former precentor of Saint Jacques du Haut Pas . 
Ah ! he is very nice . 
It is only artists who can say such things as that . 
Ah ! he is very nice . 
I am in a fair way to go out of my head over that little fellow . 
It has done nothing but rain all summer the wind irritates me the wind does not abate . 
Blachevelle is very stingy there are hardly any green peas in the market one does not know what to eat . 
CHAPTER VII THE WISDOM OF THOLOMYES In the meantime , while some sang , the rest talked together tumultuously all at once it was no longer anything but noise . 
Let us not talk at random nor too fast , he exclaimed . 
Let us reflect , if we wish to be brilliant . 
Too much improvisation empties the mind in a stupid way . 
Running beer gathers no froth . 
Let us mingle majesty with the feast . 
Let us eat with meditation let us make haste slowly . 
Consider the springtime if it makes haste , it is done for that is to say , it gets frozen . 
Excess of zeal ruins peach trees and apricot trees . 
Excess of zeal kills the grace and the mirth of good dinners . 
No zeal , gentlemen ! Grimod de la Reyniere agrees with Talleyrand . 
A hollow sound of rebellion rumbled through the group . 
Leave us in peace , Tholomyes , said Blachevelle . 
Down with the tyrant ! said Fameuil . 
Bombarda , Bombance , and Bambochel ! cried Listolier . 
Sunday exists , resumed Fameuil . 
We are sober , added Listolier . 
Tholomyes , remarked Blachevelle , contemplate my calmness mon calme . 
You are the Marquis of that , retorted Tholomyes . 
This mediocre play upon words produced the effect of a stone in a pool . 
The Marquis de Montcalm was at that time a celebrated royalist . 
All the frogs held their peace . 
Friends , cried Tholomyes , with the accent of a man who had recovered his empire , Come to yourselves . 
This pun which has fallen from the skies must not be received with too much stupor . 
Everything which falls in that way is not necessarily worthy of enthusiasm and respect . 
The pun is the dung of the mind which soars . 
The jest falls , no matter where and the mind after producing a piece of stupidity plunges into the azure depths . 
A whitish speck flattened against the rock does not prevent the condor from soaring aloft . 
Far be it from me to insult the pun ! I honor it in proportion to its merits nothing more . 
All the most august , the most sublime , the most charming of humanity , and perhaps outside of humanity , have made puns . 
Jesus Christ made a pun on St . 
Peter , Moses on Isaac , AEschylus on Polynices , Cleopatra on Octavius . 
That once conceded , I return to my exhortation . 
I repeat , brothers , I repeat , no zeal , no hubbub , no excess even in witticisms , gayety , jollities , or plays on words . 
I have the prudence of Amphiaraus and the baldness of Caesar . 
There must be a limit , even to rebuses . 
There must be a limit , even to dinners . 
You are fond of apple turnovers , ladies do not indulge in them to excess . 
Even in the matter of turnovers , good sense and art are requisite . 
Gluttony chastises the glutton , Gula punit Gulax . 
Indigestion is charged by the good God with preaching morality to stomachs . 
And remember this each one of our passions , even love , has a stomach which must not be filled too full . 
The sage is the man who knows how , at a given moment , to effect his own arrest . 
I recommend you to moderation in your desires . 
It is true that my name is Felix Tholomyes I speak well . 
Happy is he who , when the hour strikes , takes a heroic resolve , and abdicates like Sylla or Origenes . 
Favourite listened with profound attention . 
Felix , said she , what a pretty word ! I love that name . 
It is Latin it means prosper . 
Tholomyes went on Quirites , gentlemen , caballeros , my friends . 
Do you wish never to feel the prick , to do without the nuptial bed , and to brave love ? Nothing more simple . 
I prefer a woman , said Listolier . 
Woman , resumed Tholomyes distrust her . 
Woe to him who yields himself to the unstable heart of woman ! Woman is perfidious and disingenuous . 
She detests the serpent from professional jealousy . 
The serpent is the shop over the way . 
Tholomyes ! cried Blachevelle , you are drunk ! Pardieu , said Tholomyes . 
Then be gay , resumed Blachevelle . 
I agree to that , responded Tholomyes . 
And , refilling his glass , he rose . 
Glory to wine ! Nunc te , Bacche , canam ! Pardon me ladies that is Spanish . 
And the proof of it , senoras , is this like people , like cask . 
The property of love is to err . 
A love affair is not made to crouch down and brutalize itself like an English serving maid who has callouses on her knees from scrubbing . 
It is not made for that it errs gayly , our gentle love . 
It has been said , error is human I say , error is love . 
Ladies , I idolize you all . 
O Zephine , O Josephine , face more than irregular , you would be charming were you not all askew . 
You have the air of a pretty face upon which some one has sat down by mistake . 
This prologue pleased him , and Blachevelle fell in love . 
The one he loved was Favourite . 
O Favourite , thou hast Ionian lips . 
There was a Greek painter named Euphorion , who was surnamed the painter of the lips . 
That Greek alone would have been worthy to paint thy mouth . 
Listen ! before thee , there was never a creature worthy of the name . 
Thou wert made to receive the apple like Venus , or to eat it like Eve beauty begins with thee . 
I have just referred to Eve it is thou who hast created her . 
Thou deservest the letters patent of the beautiful woman . 
O Favourite , I cease to address you as thou , because I pass from poetry to prose . 
You were speaking of my name a little while ago . 
That touched me but let us , whoever we may be , distrust names . 
I am called Felix , and I am not happy . 
Let us not blindly accept the indications which they afford us . 
It would be a mistake to write to Liege for corks , and to Pau for gloves . 
Miss Dahlia , were I in your place , I would call myself Rosa . 
A flower should smell sweet , and woman should have wit . 
O Fantine , maid worthy of being called Marguerite or Pearl , you are a woman from the beauteous Orient . 
Ladies , a second piece of advice do not marry marriage is a graft it takes well or ill avoid that risk . 
But bah ! what am I saying ? I am wasting my words . 
Well , so be it but , my beauties , remember this , you eat too much sugar . 
You have but one fault , O woman , and that is nibbling sugar . 
O nibbling sex , your pretty little white teeth adore sugar . 
Now , heed me well , sugar is a salt . 
That is why diabetes borders on consumption . 
Then , do not crunch sugar , and you will live . 
I turn to the men gentlemen , make conquest , rob each other of your well beloved without remorse . 
In love there are no friends . 
Everywhere where there is a pretty woman hostility is open . 
No quarter , war to the death ! a pretty woman is a casus belli a pretty woman is flagrant misdemeanor . 
All the invasions of history have been determined by petticoats . 
Romulus carried off the Sabines William carried off the Saxon women Caesar carried off the Roman women . 
Pau a jest on peau , skin . 
Take breath , Tholomyes , said Blachevelle . 
But this good Clermont could not be Made pope , because no priest was he And then their agent , whose wrath burned , With all their money back returned . 
This was not calculated to calm Tholomyes' improvisation he emptied his glass , filled , refilled it , and began again Down with wisdom ! Forget all that I have said . 
Let us be neither prudes nor prudent men nor prudhommes . 
I propose a toast to mirth be merry . 
Let us complete our course of law by folly and eating ! Indigestion and the digest . 
Let Justinian be the male , and Feasting , the female ! Joy in the depths ! Live , O creation ! The world is a great diamond . 
What a festival everywhere ! The nightingale is a gratuitous Elleviou . 
My soul flits away into the virgin forests and to the savannas . 
The flies buzz in the sun . 
The sun has sneezed out the humming bird . 
Embrace me , Fantine ! He made a mistake and embraced Favourite . 
CHAPTER VIII THE DEATH OF A HORSE The dinners are better at Edon's than at Bombarda's , exclaimed Zephine . 
I prefer Bombarda to Edon , declared Blachevelle . 
Look at the room downstairs there are mirrors glaces on the walls . 
I prefer them glaces , ices on my plate , said Favourite . 
Blachevelle persisted Look at the knives . 
The handles are of silver at Bombarda's and of bone at Edon's . 
Now , silver is more valuable than bone . 
Except for those who have a silver chin , observed Tholomyes . 
He was looking at the dome of the Invalides , which was visible from Bombarda's windows . 
Tholomyes , exclaimed Fameuil , Listolier and I were having a discussion just now . 
A discussion is a good thing , replied Tholomyes a quarrel is better . 
We were disputing about philosophy . 
Well ? Which do you prefer , Descartes or Spinoza ? Desaugiers , said Tholomyes . 
This decree pronounced , he took a drink , and went on I consent to live . 
All is not at an end on earth since we can still talk nonsense . 
For that I return thanks to the immortal gods . 
One lies , but one laughs . 
One affirms , but one doubts . 
The unexpected bursts forth from the syllogism . 
There are still human beings here below who know how to open and close the surprise box of the paradox merrily . 
Again Fameuil interrupted him Tholomyes , your opinions fix the law . 
Who is your favorite author ? Ber Quin ? No Choux . 
Apuleius tells us of them . 
Aspasia was a creature in whom two extremes of womanhood met she was the goddess prostitute Socrates plus Manon Lescaut . 
Aspasia was created in case a mistress should be needed for Prometheus . 
Tholomyes , once started , would have found some difficulty in stopping , had not a horse fallen down upon the quay just at that moment . 
The shock caused the cart and the orator to come to a dead halt . 
It was a Beauceron mare , old and thin , and one fit for the knacker , which was dragging a very heavy cart . 
On arriving in front of Bombarda's , the worn out , exhausted beast had refused to proceed any further . 
This incident attracted a crowd . 
, backed up with a pitiless cut of the whip , when the jade fell , never to rise again . 
Poor horse ! sighed Fantine . 
And Dahlia exclaimed There is Fantine on the point of crying over horses . 
The moment has arrived , replied Tholomyes . 
Gentlemen , the hour for giving these ladies a surprise has struck . 
Wait for us a moment , ladies . 
It begins with a kiss , said Blachevelle . 
On the brow , added Tholomyes . 
Each gravely bestowed a kiss on his mistress's brow then all four filed out through the door , with their fingers on their lips . 
Favourite clapped her hands on their departure . 
It is beginning to be amusing already , said she . 
Don't be too long , murmured Fantine we are waiting for you . 
They saw the young men emerge from the Cafe Bombarda arm in arm . 
The latter turned round , made signs to them , smiled , and disappeared in that dusty Sunday throng which makes a weekly invasion into the Champs Elysees . 
Don't be long ! cried Fantine . 
What are they going to bring us ? said Zephine . 
It will certainly be something pretty , said Dahlia . 
For my part , said Favourite , I want it to be of gold . 
Their attention was soon distracted by the movements on the shore of the lake , which they could see through the branches of the large trees , and which diverted them greatly . 
It was the hour for the departure of the mail coaches and diligences . 
Nearly all the stage coaches for the south and west passed through the Champs Elysees . 
The majority followed the quay and went through the Passy Barrier . 
This uproar delighted the young girls . 
Favourite exclaimed What a row ! One would say that it was a pile of chains flying away . 
It chanced that one of these vehicles , which they could only see with difficulty through the thick elms , halted for a moment , then set out again at a gallop . 
That's odd ! said she . 
I thought the diligence never stopped . 
I am coming to take a look at her out of curiosity . 
She is dazzled by the simplest things . 
Suppose a case I am a traveller I say to the diligence , I will go on in advance you shall pick me up on the quay as you pass . 
The diligence passes , sees me , halts , and takes me . 
That is done every day . 
You do not know life , my dear . 
In this manner a certain time elapsed . 
All at once Favourite made a movement , like a person who is just waking up . 
As Fantine concluded this sigh , the waiter who had served them at dinner entered . 
He held in his hand something which resembled a letter . 
What is that ? demanded Favourite . 
The waiter replied It is a paper that those gentlemen left for these ladies . 
Why did you not bring it at once ? Because , said the waiter , the gentlemen ordered me not to deliver it to the ladies for an hour . 
Favourite snatched the paper from the waiter's hand . 
It was , in fact , a letter . 
Stop ! said she there is no address but this is what is written on it THIS IS THE SURPRISE . 
She tore the letter open hastily , opened it , and read she knew how to read OUR BELOVED You must know that we have parents . 
Parents you do not know much about such things . 
They are called fathers and mothers by the civil code , which is puerile and honest . 
Being virtuous , we obey them . 
At the hour when you read this , five fiery horses will be bearing us to our papas and mammas . 
We are pulling up our stakes , as Bossuet says . 
We are going we are gone . 
We flee in the arms of Lafitte and on the wings of Caillard . 
Mourn for us in haste , and replace us with speed . 
If this letter lacerates you , do the same by it . 
For the space of nearly two years we have made you happy . 
We bear you no grudge for that . 
The dinner is paid for . 
The four young women looked at each other . 
Favourite was the first to break the silence . 
Well ! she exclaimed , it's a very pretty farce , all the same . 
It is very droll , said Zephine . 
That must have been Blachevelle's idea , resumed Favourite . 
It makes me in love with him . 
No sooner is he gone than he is loved . 
This is an adventure , indeed . 
No , said Dahlia it was one of Tholomyes' ideas . 
In that case , retorted Favourite , death to Blachevelle , and long live Tholomyes ! Long live Tholomyes ! exclaimed Dahlia and Zephine . 
And they burst out laughing . 
Fantine laughed with the rest . 
An hour later , when she had returned to her room , she wept . 
It was her first love affair , as we have said she had given herself to this Tholomyes as to a husband , and the poor girl had a child . 
This cook shop was kept by some people named Thenardier , husband and wife . 
It was situated in Boulanger Lane . 
Over the door there was a board nailed flat against the wall . 
Below ran this inscription AT THE SIGN OF SERGEANT OF WATERLOO . 
Nothing is more common than a cart or a truck at the door of a hostelry . 
It was the fore carriage of one of those trucks which are used in wooded tracts of country , and which serve to transport thick planks and the trunks of trees . 
This fore carriage was composed of a massive iron axle tree with a pivot , into which was fitted a heavy shaft , and which was supported by two huge wheels . 
The whole thing was compact , overwhelming , and misshapen . 
It seemed like the gun carriage of an enormous cannon . 
The wood was disappearing under mud , and the iron beneath rust . 
Under the axle tree hung , like drapery , a huge chain , worthy of some Goliath of a convict . 
Homer would have bound Polyphemus with it , and Shakespeare , Caliban . 
A handkerchief , cleverly knotted about them , prevented their falling out . 
A mother had caught sight of that frightful chain , and had said , Come ! there's a plaything for my children . 
One had chestnut hair the other , brown . 
As she rocked her little ones , the mother hummed in a discordant voice a romance then celebrated It must be , said a warrior . 
Her song , and the contemplation of her daughters , prevented her hearing and seeing what was going on in the street . 
To the fair and tender Imogene replied the mother , continuing her romance then she turned her head . 
A woman stood before her , a few paces distant . 
This woman also had a child , which she carried in her arms . 
She was carrying , in addition , a large carpet bag , which seemed very heavy . 
This woman's child was one of the most divine creatures that it is possible to behold . 
lt was a girl , two or three years of age . 
The folds of her skirt were raised so as to permit a view of her white , firm , and dimpled leg . 
She was admirably rosy and healthy . 
The little beauty inspired a desire to take a bite from the apples of her cheeks . 
Of her eyes nothing could be known , except that they must be very large , and that they had magnificent lashes . 
She slept with that slumber of absolute confidence peculiar to her age . 
The arms of mothers are made of tenderness in them children sleep profoundly . 
As for the mother , her appearance was sad and poverty stricken . 
She was dressed like a working woman who is inclined to turn into a peasant again . 
Was she handsome ? Perhaps but in that attire it was not apparent . 
A smile displays beautiful teeth when one has them but she did not smile . 
Her eyes did not seem to have been dry for a very long time . 
She was pale she had a very weary and rather sickly appearance . 
She gazed upon her daughter asleep in her arms with the air peculiar to a mother who has nursed her own child . 
A large blue handkerchief , such as the Invalides use , was folded into a fichu , and concealed her figure clumsily . 
It was Fantine , but difficult to recognize . 
Nevertheless , on scrutinizing her attentively , it was evident that she still retained her beauty . 
A melancholy fold , which resembled the beginning of irony , wrinkled her right cheek . 
Ten months had elapsed since the pretty farce . 
What had taken place during those ten months ? It can be divined . 
After abandonment , straightened circumstances . 
The father of her child gone , alas ! such ruptures are irrevocable , she found herself absolutely isolated , minus the habit of work and plus the taste for pleasure . 
Drawn away by her liaison with Tholomyes to disdain the pretty trade which she knew , she had neglected to keep her market open it was now closed to her . 
Tholomyes replied to none of them . 
But what was she to do ? She no longer knew to whom to apply . 
She had committed a fault , but the foundation of her nature , as will be remembered , was modesty and virtue . 
She was vaguely conscious that she was on the verge of falling into distress , and of gliding into a worse state . 
Courage was necessary she possessed it , and held herself firm . 
The idea of returning to her native town of M. sur M. occurred to her . 
There , some one might possibly know her and give her work yes , but it would be necessary to conceal her fault . 
In a confused way she perceived the necessity of a separation which would be more painful than the first one . 
Her heart contracted , but she took her resolution . 
Fantine , as we shall see , had the fierce bravery of life . 
She sold all that she had , which produced for her two hundred francs her little debts paid , she had only about eighty francs left . 
At the age of twenty two , on a beautiful spring morning , she quitted Paris , bearing her child on her back . 
Any one who had seen these two pass would have had pity on them . 
This woman had , in all the world , nothing but her child , and the child had , in all the world , no one but this woman . 
Fantine had nursed her child , and this had tired her chest , and she coughed a little . 
We shall have no further occasion to speak of M. Felix Tholomyes . 
These two little girls were a charm to this mother . 
She gazed at them in much emotion . 
The presence of angels is an announcement of Paradise . 
She thought that , above this inn , she beheld the mysterious HERE of Providence . 
These two little creatures were evidently happy . 
The most ferocious creatures are disarmed by caresses bestowed on their young . 
The mother raised her head and thanked her , and bade the wayfarer sit down on the bench at the door , she herself being seated on the threshold . 
The two women began to chat . 
My name is Madame Thenardier , said the mother of the two little girls . 
Then , her mind still running on her romance , she resumed humming between her teeth It must be so I am a knight , And I am off to Palestine . 
She was a simpering , but masculine creature . 
Old romances produce that effect when rubbed against the imagination of cook shop woman . 
She was still young she was barely thirty . 
A person who is seated instead of standing erect destinies hang upon such a thing as that . 
The traveller told her story , with slight modifications . 
At this word she bestowed on her daughter a passionate kiss , which woke her . 
One would say that they feel themselves to be angels , and that they know us to be men . 
Then the child began to laugh and although the mother held fast to her , she slipped to the ground with the unconquerable energy of a little being which wished to run . 
All at once she caught sight of the two others in the swing , stopped short , and put out her tongue , in sign of admiration . 
Mother Thenardier released her daughters , made them descend from the swing , and said Now amuse yourselves , all three of you . 
The grave digger's business becomes a subject for laughter when performed by a child . 
The two women pursued their chat . 
What is your little one's name ? Cosette . 
For Cosette , read Euphrasie . 
The child's name was Euphrasie . 
But out of Euphrasie the mother had made Cosette by that sweet and graceful instinct of mothers and of the populace which changes Josepha into Pepita , and Francoise into Sillette . 
It is a sort of derivative which disarranges and disconcerts the whole science of etymologists . 
We have known a grandmother who succeeded in turning Theodore into Gnon . 
How old is she ? She is going on three . 
That is the age of my eldest . 
Their radiant brows touched each other one would have said that there were three heads in one aureole . 
Cosette's mother continued You see , I cannot take my daughter to the country . 
My work will not permit it . 
With a child one can find no situation . 
People are ridiculous in the country . 
It was the good God who caused me to pass your inn . 
When I caught sight of your little ones , so pretty , so clean , and so happy , it overwhelmed me . 
I said Here is a good mother . 
That is just the thing that will make three sisters . 
And then , it will not be long before I return . 
Will you keep my child for me ? I must see about it , replied the Thenardier . 
I will give you six francs a month . 
Here a man's voice called from the depths of the cook shop Not for less than seven francs . 
And six months paid in advance . 
Six times seven makes forty two , said the Thenardier . 
I will give it , said the mother . 
And fifteen francs in addition for preliminary expenses , added the man's voice . 
Total , fifty seven francs , said Madame Thenardier . 
And she hummed vaguely , with these figures It must be , said a warrior . 
I will pay it , said the mother . 
I shall have enough left to reach the country , by travelling on foot . 
I shall earn money there , and as soon as I have a little I will return for my darling . 
The man's voice resumed The little one has an outfit ? That is my husband , said the Thenardier . 
Of course she has an outfit , the poor treasure . 
I understood perfectly that it was your husband . 
And a beautiful outfit , too ! a senseless outfit , everything by the dozen , and silk gowns like a lady . 
It is here , in my carpet bag . 
You must hand it over , struck in the man's voice again . 
Of course I shall give it to you , said the mother . 
It would be very queer if I were to leave my daughter quite naked ! The master's face appeared . 
That's good , said he . 
Do you know that I should have had a bailiff and a protest after me ? You played the mouse trap nicely with your young ones . 
Without suspecting it , said the woman . 
CHAPTER II FIRST SKETCH OF TWO UNPREPOSSESSING FIGURES The mouse which had been caught was a pitiful specimen but the cat rejoices even over a lean mouse . 
Who were these Thenardiers ? Let us say a word or two of them now . 
We will complete the sketch later on . 
They were of those dwarfed natures which , if a dull fire chances to warm them up , easily become monstrous . 
There was in the woman a substratum of the brute , and in the man the material for a blackguard . 
Both were susceptible , in the highest degree , of the sort of hideous progress which is accomplished in the direction of evil . 
This man and woman possessed such souls . 
Thenardier , in particular , was troublesome for a physiognomist . 
One can only look at some men to distrust them for one feels that they are dark in both directions . 
They are uneasy in the rear and threatening in front . 
There is something of the unknown about them . 
One can no more answer for what they have done than for what they will do . 
The shadow which they bear in their glance denounces them . 
From merely hearing them utter a word or seeing them make a gesture , one obtains a glimpse of sombre secrets in their past and of sombre mysteries in their future . 
This Thenardier , if he himself was to be believed , had been a soldier a sergeant , he said . 
He had probably been through the campaign of , and had even conducted himself with tolerable valor , it would seem . 
We shall see later on how much truth there was in this . 
The sign of his hostelry was in allusion to one of his feats of arms . 
He had painted it himself for he knew how to do a little of everything , and badly . 
Madame Thenardier was just intelligent enough to read this sort of books . 
In them she drowned what brains she possessed . 
His wife was twelve or fifteen years younger than he was . 
Now , one cannot read nonsense with impunity . 
By the side of this romantic element which we have just indicated there is the social symptom . 
This displacement , which places the elegant name on the plebeian and the rustic name on the aristocrat , is nothing else than an eddy of equality . 
The irresistible penetration of the new inspiration is there as everywhere else . 
Beneath this apparent discord there is a great and a profound thing , the French Revolution . 
CHAPTER III THE LARK It is not all in all sufficient to be wicked in order to prosper . 
The cook shop was in a bad way . 
Thanks to the traveller's fifty seven francs , Thenardier had been able to avoid a protest and to honor his signature . 
On the following month they were again in need of money . 
The woman took Cosette's outfit to Paris , and pawned it at the pawnbroker's for sixty francs . 
As she had no longer any clothes , they dressed her in the cast off petticoats and chemises of the Thenardier brats that is to say , in rags . 
They fed her on what all the rest had left a little better than the dog , a little worse than the cat . 
Moreover , the cat and the dog were her habitual table companions Cosette ate with them under the table , from a wooden bowl similar to theirs . 
The Thenardiers replied invariably , Cosette is doing wonderfully well . 
At the expiration of the first six months the mother sent seven francs for the seventh month , and continued her remittances with tolerable regularity from month to month . 
The mother , whom they had persuaded into the belief that her child was happy , and was coming on well , submitted , and forwarded the twelve francs . 
Certain natures cannot love on the one hand without hating on the other . 
Mother Thenardier loved her two daughters passionately , which caused her to hate the stranger . 
It is sad to think that the love of a mother can possess villainous aspects . 
This woman , like many women of her sort , had a load of caresses and a burden of blows and injuries to dispense each day . 
Her daughters received nothing but caresses . 
Cosette could not make a motion which did not draw down upon her head a heavy shower of violent blows and unmerited chastisement . 
Eponine and Azelma were vicious . 
Children at that age are only copies of their mother . 
The size is smaller that is all . 
A year passed then another . 
People in the village said Those Thenardiers are good people . 
They are not rich , and yet they are bringing up a poor child who was abandoned on their hands ! They thought that Cosette's mother had forgotten her . 
Let her not bother me , he exclaimed , or I'll fire her brat right into the middle of her secrets . 
I must have an increase . 
The mother paid the fifteen francs . 
From year to year the child grew , and so did her wretchedness . 
Five years old ! the reader will say that is not probable . 
Alas ! it is true . 
Social suffering begins at all ages . 
The Thenardiers considered themselves all the more authorized to behave in this manner , since the mother , who was still at M. sur M. , had become irregular in her payments . 
Some months she was in arrears . 
If this mother had returned to Montfermeil at the end of these three years , she would not have recognized her child . 
Cosette , so pretty and rosy on her arrival in that house , was now thin and pale . 
She had an indescribably uneasy look . 
The sly creature , said the Thenardiers . 
Injustice had made her peevish , and misery had made her ugly . 
She was called the Lark in the neighborhood . 
Only the little lark never sang . 
Fantine had quitted her province ten years before . 
M. sur M. had changed its aspect . 
While Fantine had been slowly descending from wretchedness to wretchedness , her native town had prospered . 
About two years previously one of those industrial facts which are the grand events of small districts had taken place . 
This detail is important , and we regard it as useful to develop it at length we should almost say , to underline it . 
From time immemorial , M. sur M. had had for its special industry the imitation of English jet and the black glass trinkets of Germany . 
This industry had always vegetated , on account of the high price of the raw material , which reacted on the manufacture . 
At the moment when Fantine returned to M. sur M. , an unheard of transformation had taken place in the production of black goods . 
This very small change had effected a revolution . 
Thus three results ensued from one idea . 
In less than three years the inventor of this process had become rich , which is good , and had made every one about him rich , which is better . 
He was a stranger in the Department . 
Of his origin , nothing was known of the beginning of his career , very little . 
It was rumored that he had come to town with very little money , a few hundred francs at the most . 
On his arrival at M. sur M. he had only the garments , the appearance , and the language of a workingman . 
Afterwards they had learned his name . 
He was called Father Madeleine . 
CHAPTER II MADELEINE He was a man about fifty years of age , who had a preoccupied air , and who was good . 
That was all that could be said about him . 
Thanks to the rapid progress of the industry which he had so admirably re constructed , M. sur M. had become a rather important centre of trade . 
Spain , which consumes a good deal of black jet , made enormous purchases there each year . 
M. sur M. almost rivalled London and Berlin in this branch of commerce . 
Any one who was hungry could present himself there , and was sure of finding employment and bread . 
Father Madeleine required of the men good will , of the women pure morals , and of all , probity . 
He had separated the work rooms in order to separate the sexes , and so that the women and girls might remain discreet . 
On this point he was inflexible . 
It was the only thing in which he was in a manner intolerant . 
He was all the more firmly set on this severity , since M. sur M. , being a garrison town , opportunities for corruption abounded . 
However , his coming had been a boon , and his presence was a godsend . 
Before Father Madeleine's arrival , everything had languished in the country now everything lived with a healthy life of toil . 
A strong circulation warmed everything and penetrated everywhere . 
Slack seasons and wretchedness were unknown . 
There was no pocket so obscure that it had not a little money in it no dwelling so lowly that there was not some little joy within it . 
Father Madeleine gave employment to every one . 
He exacted but one thing Be an honest man . 
He appeared to be thinking much of others , and little of himself . 
The hospital was badly endowed he founded six beds there . 
M. sur M. is divided into the upper and the lower town . 
He created at his own expense an infant school , a thing then almost unknown in France , and a fund for aiding old and infirm workmen . 
As his factory was a centre , a new quarter , in which there were a good many indigent families , rose rapidly around him he established there a free dispensary . 
At first , when they watched his beginnings , the good souls said , He's a jolly fellow who means to get rich . 
When they saw him enriching the country before he enriched himself , the good souls said , He is an ambitious man . 
This seemed all the more probable since the man was religious , and even practised his religion to a certain degree , a thing which was very favorably viewed at that epoch . 
He went regularly to low mass every Sunday . 
The local deputy , who nosed out all rivalry everywhere , soon began to grow uneasy over this religion . 
He indulged in gentle raillery at God with closed doors . 
Ambition was at that time , in the direct acceptation of the word , a race to the steeple . 
The poor profited by this terror as well as the good God , for the honorable deputy also founded two beds in the hospital , which made twelve . 
The rumor was well founded . 
Several days later the appointment appeared in the Moniteur . 
On the following day Father Madeleine refused . 
A fresh excitement in the little town . 
Well , so it was the cross that he wanted ! Father Madeleine refused the cross . 
Decidedly this man was an enigma . 
The good souls got out of their predicament by saying , After all , he is some sort of an adventurer . 
His workmen , in particular , adored him , and he endured this adoration with a sort of melancholy gravity . 
In proportion as he mounted , throve , invitations rained down upon him . 
Society claimed him for its own . 
They made a thousand advances to him . 
This time the good gossips had no trouble . 
He is an ignorant man , of no education . 
No one knows where he came from . 
He would not know how to behave in society . 
It has not been absolutely proved that he knows how to read . 
When they saw him making money , they said , He is a man of business . 
When they saw him scattering his money about , they said , He is an ambitious man . 
When he was seen to decline honors , they said , He is an adventurer . 
When they saw him repulse society , they said , He is a brute . 
Is he drawing back before the good which he can do ? This was the third phase of his ascent . 
Father Madeleine had become Monsieur Madeleine . 
Monsieur Madeleine became Monsieur le Maire . 
CHAPTER III SUMS DEPOSITED WITH LAFFITTE On the other hand , he remained as simple as on the first day . 
He had gray hair , a serious eye , the sunburned complexion of a laborer , the thoughtful visage of a philosopher . 
He habitually wore a hat with a wide brim , and a long coat of coarse cloth , buttoned to the chin . 
He fulfilled his duties as mayor but , with that exception , he lived in solitude . 
He spoke to but few people . 
He always took his meals alone , with an open book before him , which he read . 
He had a well selected little library . 
He loved books books are cold but safe friends . 
In proportion as leisure came to him with fortune , he seemed to take advantage of it to cultivate his mind . 
It had been observed that , ever since his arrival at M. sur M. . 
his language had grown more polished , more choice , and more gentle with every passing year . 
He liked to carry a gun with him on his strolls , but he rarely made use of it . 
When he did happen to do so , his shooting was something so infallible as to inspire terror . 
He never killed an inoffensive animal . 
He never shot at a little bird . 
Although he was no longer young , it was thought that he was still prodigiously strong . 
He always had his pockets full of money when he went out but they were empty on his return . 
When he passed through a village , the ragged brats ran joyously after him , and surrounded him like a swarm of gnats . 
It was thought that he must , in the past , have lived a country life , since he knew all sorts of useful secrets , which he taught to the peasants . 
He had recipes for exterminating from a field , blight , tares , foxtail , and all parasitic growths which destroy the wheat . 
He defended a rabbit warren against rats , simply by the odor of a guinea pig which he placed in it . 
One day he saw some country people busily engaged in pulling up nettles he examined the plants , which were uprooted and already dried , and said They are dead . 
Nevertheless , it would be a good thing to know how to make use of them . 
When the nettle is young , the leaf makes an excellent vegetable when it is older , it has filaments and fibres like hemp and flax . 
Nettle cloth is as good as linen cloth . 
Chopped up , nettles are good for poultry pounded , they are good for horned cattle . 
The seed of the nettle , mixed with fodder , gives gloss to the hair of animals the root , mixed with salt , produces a beautiful yellow coloring matter . 
Moreover , it is an excellent hay , which can be cut twice . 
And what is required for the nettle ? A little soil , no care , no culture . 
Only the seed falls as it is ripe , and it is difficult to collect it . 
With the exercise of a little care , the nettle could be made useful it is neglected and it becomes hurtful . 
How many men resemble the nettle ! He added , after a pause Remember this , my friends there are no such things as bad plants or bad men . 
There are only bad cultivators . 
The children loved him because he knew how to make charming little trifles of straw and cocoanuts . 
When he saw the door of a church hung in black , he entered he sought out funerals as other men seek christenings . 
He seemed to like to give to his thoughts for text these funereal psalmodies filled with the vision of the other world . 
He performed a multitude of good actions , concealing his agency in them as a man conceals himself because of evil actions . 
He penetrated houses privately , at night he ascended staircases furtively . 
A poor wretch on returning to his attic would find that his door had been opened , sometimes even forced , during his absence . 
The malefactor who had been there was Father Madeleine . 
He was affable and sad . 
The people said There is a rich man who has not a haughty air . 
There is a happy man who has not a contented air . 
It is said to be a grotto . 
He smiled , and introduced them instantly into this grotto . 
They were well punished for their curiosity . 
The room was very simply furnished in mahogany , which was rather ugly , like all furniture of that sort , and hung with paper worth twelve sous . 
Nevertheless , people continued to say that no one ever got into the room , and that it was a hermit's cave , a mysterious retreat , a hole , a tomb . 
In reality , these two or three millions were reducible , as we have said , to six hundred and thirty or forty thousand francs . 
To be served in distress is to be caressed . 
Does he lack anything ? No. One does not lose the sight when one has love . 
And what love ! A love wholly constituted of virtue ! There is no blindness where there is certainty . 
Soul seeks soul , gropingly , and finds it . 
And this soul , found and tested , is a woman . 
A hand sustains you it is hers a mouth lightly touches your brow it is her mouth you hear a breath very near you it is hers . 
One feels warmth approaching , and behold ! she is there . 
One overflows with serenity , with gayety , with ecstasy one is a radiance amid the night . 
And there are a thousand little cares . 
Nothings , which are enormous in that void . 
The most ineffable accents of the feminine voice employed to lull you , and supplying the vanished universe to you . 
One is caressed with the soul . 
One sees nothing , but one feels that one is adored . 
It is a paradise of shadows . 
It was from this paradise that Monseigneur Welcome had passed to the other . 
This mourning was noticed in the town , and commented on . 
It seemed to throw a light on M. Madeleine's origin . 
It was concluded that some relationship existed between him and the venerable Bishop . 
M. Madeleine perceived the advancement which he had obtained , by the more numerous courtesies of the old women and the more plentiful smiles of the young ones . 
But , resumed the dowager , you are wearing mourning for him . 
He replied , It is because I was a servant in his family in my youth . 
The little Savoyards told each other about it a great many of them passed that way . 
CHAPTER V VAGUE FLASHES ON THE HORIZON Little by little , and in the course of time , all this opposition subsided . 
People came from a distance of ten leagues around to consult M. Madeleine . 
He put an end to differences , he prevented lawsuits , he reconciled enemies . 
Every one took him for the judge , and with good reason . 
It seemed as though he had for a soul the book of the natural law . 
It was like an epidemic of veneration , which in the course of six or seven years gradually took possession of the whole district . 
In any case , I am not his dupe . 
This person , grave with a gravity which was almost menacing , was one of those men who , even when only seen by a rapid glimpse , arrest the spectator's attention . 
His name was Javert , and he belonged to the police . 
At M. sur M. he exercised the unpleasant but useful functions of an inspector . 
He had not seen Madeleine's beginnings . 
Javert owed the post which he occupied to the protection of M. Chabouillet , the secretary of the Minister of State , Comte Angeles , then prefect of police at Paris . 
When Javert arrived at M. sur M. the fortune of the great manufacturer was already made , and Father Madeleine had become Monsieur Madeleine . 
Certain police officers have a peculiar physiognomy , which is complicated with an air of baseness mingled with an air of authority . 
Javert possessed this physiognomy minus the baseness . 
Sometimes even several of them at a time . 
Animals are nothing else than the figures of our virtues and our vices , straying before our eyes , the visible phantoms of our souls . 
God shows them to us in order to induce us to reflect . 
Social education , when well done , can always draw from a soul , of whatever sort it may be , the utility which it contains . 
The visible I in nowise authorizes the thinker to deny the latent I . 
Having made this reservation , let us pass on . 
Give to this dog son of a wolf a human face , and the result will be Javert . 
Javert had been born in prison , of a fortune teller , whose husband was in the galleys . 
As he grew up , he thought that he was outside the pale of society , and he despaired of ever re entering it . 
He entered the police he succeeded there . 
At forty years of age he was an inspector . 
During his youth he had been employed in the convict establishments of the South . 
Before proceeding further , let us come to an understanding as to the words , human face , which we have just applied to Javert . 
The human face of Javert consisted of a flat nose , with two deep nostrils , towards which enormous whiskers ascended on his cheeks . 
One felt ill at ease when he saw these two forests and these two caverns for the first time . 
Javert , serious , was a watchdog when he laughed , he was a tiger . 
He enveloped in a blind and profound faith every one who had a function in the state , from the prime minister to the rural policeman . 
He covered with scorn , aversion , and disgust every one who had once crossed the legal threshold of evil . 
He was absolute , and admitted no exceptions . 
On the one hand , he said , The functionary can make no mistake the magistrate is never the wrong . 
On the other hand , he said , These men are irremediably lost . 
Nothing good can come from them . 
He was stoical , serious , austere a melancholy dreamer , humble and haughty , like fanatics . 
His glance was like a gimlet , cold and piercing . 
His whole life hung on these two words watchfulness and supervision . 
And he would have done it with that sort of inward satisfaction which is conferred by virtue . 
And , withal , a life of privation , isolation , abnegation , chastity , with never a diversion . 
It was implacable duty the police understood , as the Spartans understood Sparta , a pitiless lying in wait , a ferocious honesty , a marble informer , Brutus in Vidocq . 
Javert's whole person was expressive of the man who spies and who withdraws himself from observation . 
In his leisure moments , which were far from frequent , he read , although he hated books this caused him to be not wholly illiterate . 
This could be recognized by some emphasis in his speech . 
As we have said , he had no vices . 
When he was pleased with himself , he permitted himself a pinch of snuff . 
Therein lay his connection with humanity . 
The reader will have no difficulty in understanding that Javert was the terror of that whole class which the annual statistics of the Ministry of Justice designates under the rubric , Vagrants . 
The name of Javert routed them by its mere utterance the face of Javert petrified them at sight . 
Such was this formidable man . 
Javert was like an eye constantly fixed on M. Madeleine . 
An eye full of suspicion and conjecture . 
M. Madeleine had finally perceived the fact but it seemed to be of no importance to him . 
He did not even put a question to Javert he neither sought nor avoided him he bore that embarrassing and almost oppressive gaze without appearing to notice it . 
He treated Javert with ease and courtesy , as he did all the rest of the world . 
He seemed to know , and he sometimes said in covert words , that some one had gleaned certain information in a certain district about a family which had disappeared . 
Once he chanced to say , as he was talking to himself , I think I have him ! Then he remained pensive for three days , and uttered not a word . 
It seemed that the thread which he thought he held had broken . 
Otherwise , it would be superior to intelligence , and the beast would be found to be provided with a better light than man . 
Javert was evidently somewhat disconcerted by the perfect naturalness and tranquillity of M. Madeleine . 
One day , nevertheless , his strange manner appeared to produce an impression on M. Madeleine . 
It was on the following occasion . 
CHAPTER VI FATHER FAUCHELEVENT One morning M. Madeleine was passing through an unpaved alley of M. sur M. he heard a noise , and saw a group some distance away . 
An old man named Father Fauchelevent had just fallen beneath his cart , his horse having tumbled down . 
This Fauchelevent was one of the few enemies whom M. Madeleine had at that time . 
When Madeleine arrived in the neighborhood , Fauchelevent , an ex notary and a peasant who was almost educated , had a business which was beginning to be in a bad way . 
Fauchelevent had seen this simple workman grow rich , while he , a lawyer , was being ruined . 
This had filled him with jealousy , and he had done all he could , on every occasion , to injure Madeleine . 
Then bankruptcy had come and as the old man had nothing left but a cart and a horse , and neither family nor children , he had turned carter . 
The horse had two broken legs and could not rise . 
The old man was caught in the wheels . 
The fall had been so unlucky that the whole weight of the vehicle rested on his breast . 
The cart was quite heavily laden . 
Father Fauchelevent was rattling in the throat in the most lamentable manner . 
They had tried , but in vain , to drag him out . 
An unmethodical effort , aid awkwardly given , a wrong shake , might kill him . 
It was impossible to disengage him otherwise than by lifting the vehicle off of him . 
Javert , who had come up at the moment of the accident , had sent for a jack screw . 
Help ! cried old Fauchelevent . 
A quarter of an hour ! exclaimed Madeleine . 
It had rained on the preceding night the soil was soaked . 
The cart was sinking deeper into the earth every moment , and crushing the old carter's breast more and more . 
It was evident that his ribs would be broken in five minutes more . 
It is impossible to wait another quarter of an hour , said Madeleine to the peasants , who were staring at him . 
Only half a minute , and the poor man can be taken out . 
Is there any one here who has stout loins and heart ? There are five louis d'or to be earned ! Not a man in the group stirred . 
Ten louis , said Madeleine . 
The persons present dropped their eyes . 
One of them muttered A man would need to be devilish strong . 
And then he runs the risk of getting crushed ! Come , began Madeleine again , twenty louis . 
It is not the will which is lacking , said a voice . 
M. Madeleine turned round , and recognized Javert . 
He had not noticed him on his arrival . 
Javert went on It is strength . 
One would have to be a terrible man to do such a thing as lift a cart like that on his back . 
Javert added , with an air of indifference , but without removing his eyes from Madeleine He was a convict . 
In the galleys at Toulon . 
Meanwhile , the cart continued to sink slowly . 
Father Fauchelevent rattled in the throat , and shrieked I am strangling ! My ribs are breaking ! a screw ! something ! Ah ! Madeleine glanced about him . 
Is there , then , no one who wishes to earn twenty louis and save the life of this poor old man ? No one stirred . 
Javert resumed I have never known but one man who could take the place of a screw , and he was that convict . 
Ah ! It is crushing me ! cried the old man . 
Madeleine raised his head , met Javert's falcon eye still fixed upon him , looked at the motionless peasants , and smiled sadly . 
Then , without saying a word , he fell on his knees , and before the crowd had even had time to utter a cry , he was underneath the vehicle . 
A terrible moment of expectation and silence ensued . 
They beheld Madeleine , almost flat on his stomach beneath that terrible weight , make two vain efforts to bring his knees and his elbows together . 
All the spectators were panting . 
The wheels had continued to sink , and it had become almost impossible for Madeleine to make his way from under the vehicle . 
Suddenly the enormous mass was seen to quiver , the cart rose slowly , the wheels half emerged from the ruts . 
They heard a stifled voice crying , Make haste ! Help ! It was Madeleine , who had just made a final effort . 
The devotion of a single man had given force and courage to all . 
The cart was raised by twenty arms . 
He was pale , though dripping with perspiration . 
His clothes were torn and covered with mud . 
The old man kissed his knees and called him the good God . 
As for him , he bore upon his countenance an indescribable expression of happy and celestial suffering , and he fixed his tranquil eye on Javert , who was still staring at him . 
CHAPTER VII FAUCHELEVENT BECOMES A GARDENER IN PARIS Fauchelevent had dislocated his kneepan in his fall . 
Father Madeleine had him conveyed to an infirmary which he had established for his workmen in the factory building itself , and which was served by two sisters of charity . 
On the following morning the old man found a thousand franc bank note on his night stand , with these words in Father Madeleine's writing I purchase your horse and cart . 
The cart was broken , and the horse was dead . 
Fauchelevent recovered , but his knee remained stiff . 
Some time afterwards , M. Madeleine was appointed mayor . 
From that time forth he avoided him as much as he possibly could . 
When the requirements of the service imperatively demanded it , and he could not do otherwise than meet the mayor , he addressed him with profound respect . 
This prosperity created at M. sur M. by Father Madeleine had , besides the visible signs which we have mentioned , another symptom which was none the less significant for not being visible . 
When work is abundant , when the country is rich and happy , the taxes are paid easily and cost the state nothing . 
It may be said , that there is one infallible thermometer of the public misery and riches , the cost of collecting the taxes . 
Such was the condition of the country when Fantine returned thither . 
Fortunately , the door of M. Madeleine's factory was like the face of a friend . 
She presented herself there , and was admitted to the women's workroom . 
CHAPTER VIII MADAME VICTURNIEN EXPENDS THIRTY FRANCS ON MORALITY When Fantine saw that she was making her living , she felt joyful for a moment . 
To live honestly by her own labor , what mercy from heaven ! The taste for work had really returned to her . 
She hired a little room and furnished on credit on the strength of her future work a lingering trace of her improvident ways . 
As she was not able to say that she was married she took good care , as we have seen , not to mention her little girl . 
At first , as the reader has seen , she paid the Thenardiers promptly . 
As she only knew how to sign her name , she was obliged to write through a public letter writer . 
She wrote often , and this was noticed . 
It began to be said in an undertone , in the women's workroom , that Fantine wrote letters and that she had ways about her . 
There is no one for spying on people's actions like those who are not concerned in them . 
Why ? For no reason . 
A pure passion for seeing , knowing , and penetrating into things . 
A pure itch for talking . 
Certain persons are malicious solely through a necessity for talking . 
In addition , many a one was jealous of her golden hair and of her white teeth . 
It was remarked that in the workroom she often turned aside , in the midst of the rest , to wipe away a tear . 
These were the moments when she was thinking of her child perhaps , also , of the man whom she had loved . 
Breaking the gloomy bonds of the past is a mournful task . 
It was observed that she wrote twice a month at least , and that she paid the carriage on the letter . 
They managed to obtain the address Monsieur , Monsieur Thenardier , inn keeper at Montfermeil . 
The public writer , a good old man who could not fill his stomach with red wine without emptying his pocket of secrets , was made to talk in the wine shop . 
In short , it was discovered that Fantine had a child . 
She must be a pretty sort of a woman . 
I have seen the child . 
The gossip who did this thing was a gorgon named Madame Victurnien , the guardian and door keeper of every one's virtue . 
Madame Victurnien was fifty six , and re enforced the mask of ugliness with the mask of age . 
A quavering voice , a whimsical mind . 
She was a nettle in which the rustle of the cassock was visible . 
At the Restoration she had turned bigot , and that with so much energy that the priests had forgiven her her monk . 
She had a small property , which she bequeathed with much ostentation to a religious community . 
She was in high favor at the episcopal palace of Arras . 
So this Madame Victurnien went to Montfermeil , and returned with the remark , I have seen the child . 
This was the very month when the Thenardiers , after having demanded twelve francs instead of six , had just exacted fifteen francs instead of twelve . 
She could not leave the neighborhood she was in debt for her rent and furniture . 
Fifty francs was not sufficient to cancel this debt . 
She stammered a few supplicating words . 
The superintendent ordered her to leave the shop on the instant . 
Besides , Fantine was only a moderately good workwoman . 
Overcome with shame , even more than with despair , she quitted the shop , and returned to her room . 
So her fault was now known to every one . 
She no longer felt strong enough to say a word . 
She was advised to see the mayor she did not dare . 
The mayor had given her fifty francs because he was good , and had dismissed her because he was just . 
She bowed before the decision . 
CHAPTER IX MADAME VICTURNIEN'S SUCCESS So the monk's widow was good for something . 
But M. Madeleine had heard nothing of all this . 
Life is full of just such combinations of events . 
M. Madeleine was in the habit of almost never entering the women's workroom . 
M. Madeleine relied wholly on her . 
The best men are often obliged to delegate their authority . 
It was with this full power , and the conviction that she was doing right , that the superintendent had instituted the suit , judged , condemned , and executed Fantine . 
Fantine tried to obtain a situation as a servant in the neighborhood she went from house to house . 
No one would have her . 
She could not leave town . 
The householder , whom she owed for her rent , said to her , You are young and pretty you can pay . 
She began to make coarse shirts for soldiers of the garrison , and earned twelve sous a day . 
Her daughter cost her ten . 
It was at this point that she began to pay the Thenardiers irregularly . 
However , the old woman who lighted her candle for her when she returned at night , taught her the art of living in misery . 
Back of living on little , there is the living on nothing . 
These are the two chambers the first is dark , the second is black . 
No one knows all that certain feeble creatures , who have grown old in privation and honesty , can get out of a sou . 
It ends by being a talent . 
Fantine acquired this sublime talent , and regained a little courage . 
And , then , when one is sad , one eats less . 
Well , sufferings , uneasiness , a little bread on one hand , trouble on the other , all this will support me . 
It would have been a great happiness to have her little girl with her in this distress . 
She thought of having her come . 
There are many such virtuous people in this lower world some day they will be in the world above . 
This life has a morrow . 
At first , Fantine had been so ashamed that she had not dared to go out . 
It seems as though an unfortunate woman were utterly bare beneath the sarcasm and the curiosity of all in small towns . 
In Paris , at least , no one knows you , and this obscurity is a garment . 
Oh ! how she would have liked to betake herself to Paris ! Impossible ! She was obliged to accustom herself to disrepute , as she had accustomed herself to indigence . 
Gradually she decided on her course . 
At the expiration of two or three months she shook off her shame , and began to go about as though there were nothing the matter . 
It is all the same to me , she said . 
She went and came , bearing her head well up , with a bitter smile , and was conscious that she was becoming brazen faced . 
The happiness of the evil minded is black . 
Excess of toil wore out Fantine , and the little dry cough which troubled her increased . 
CHAPTER X RESULT OF THE SUCCESS She had been dismissed towards the end of the winter the summer passed , but winter came again . 
Short days , less work . 
Winter no warmth , no light , no noonday , the evening joining on to the morning , fogs , twilight the window is gray it is impossible to see clearly at it . 
The sky is but a vent hole . 
The whole day is a cavern . 
The sun has the air of a beggar . 
A frightful season ! Winter changes the water of heaven and the heart of man into a stone . 
The Thenardiers , who were not promptly paid , wrote to her constantly letters whose contents drove her to despair , and whose carriage ruined her . 
She received the letter , and crushed it in her hands all day long . 
That evening she went into a barber's shop at the corner of the street , and pulled out her comb . 
Her admirable golden hair fell to her knees . 
What splendid hair ! exclaimed the barber . 
How much will you give me for it ? said she . 
She purchased a knitted petticoat and sent it to the Thenardiers . 
This petticoat made the Thenardiers furious . 
It was the money that they wanted . 
They gave the petticoat to Eponine . 
The poor Lark continued to shiver . 
Fantine thought My child is no longer cold . 
I have clothed her with my hair . 
She put on little round caps which concealed her shorn head , and in which she was still pretty . 
Dark thoughts held possession of Fantine's heart . 
When she saw that she could no longer dress her hair , she began to hate every one about her . 
When she passed the factory in working hours , when the workpeople were at the door , she affected to laugh and sing . 
An old workwoman who once saw her laughing and singing in this fashion said , There's a girl who will come to a bad end . 
She took a lover , the first who offered , a man whom she did not love , out of bravado and with rage in her heart . 
He was a miserable scamp , a sort of mendicant musician , a lazy beggar , who beat her , and who abandoned her as she had taken him , in disgust . 
The lower she descended , the darker everything grew about her , the more radiant shone that little angel at the bottom of her heart . 
She said , When I get rich , I will have my Cosette with me and she laughed . 
Her cough did not leave her , and she had sweats on her back . 
One day she received from the Thenardiers a letter couched in the following terms Cosette is ill with a malady which is going the rounds of the neighborhood . 
A miliary fever , they call it . 
This is ruining us , and we can no longer pay for them . 
If you do not send us forty francs before the week is out , the little one will be dead . 
Nevertheless she went to a dormer window in the staircase and read the letter once more . 
Then she descended the stairs and emerged , running and leaping and still laughing . 
Some one met her and said to her , What makes you so gay ? She replied A fine piece of stupidity that some country people have written to me . 
They demand forty francs of me . 
He was a quack dentist on his rounds , who was offering to the public full sets of teeth , opiates , powders and elixirs . 
Fantine mingled in the group , and began to laugh with the rest at the harangue , which contained slang for the populace and jargon for respectable people . 
What are my palettes ? asked Fantine . 
The palettes , replied the dental professor , are the front teeth , the two upper ones . 
How horrible ! exclaimed Fantine . 
Two napoleons ! grumbled a toothless old woman who was present . 
If your heart bids you , come this evening to the inn of the Tillac d'Argent you will find me there . 
And what did he offer ? asked Marguerite . 
Yes , said Fantine that makes forty francs . 
She remained thoughtful , and began her work . 
At the expiration of a quarter of an hour she left her sewing and went to read the Thenardiers' letter once more on the staircase . 
Does it require many drugs ? Oh ! terrible drugs . 
How does one get it ? It is a malady that one gets without knowing how . 
Then it attacks children ? Children in particular . 
Do people die of it ? They may , said Marguerite . 
Fantine left the room and went to read her letter once more on the staircase . 
That evening she went out , and was seen to turn her steps in the direction of the Rue de Paris , where the inns are situated . 
She had not lain down . 
Her cap had fallen on her knees . 
Her candle had burned all night , and was almost entirely consumed . 
Marguerite halted on the threshold , petrified at this tremendous wastefulness , and exclaimed Lord ! the candle is all burned out ! Something has happened . 
Then she looked at Fantine , who turned toward her her head bereft of its hair . 
Fantine had grown ten years older since the preceding night . 
Jesus ! said Marguerite , what is the matter with you , Fantine ? Nothing , replied Fantine . 
My child will not die of that frightful malady , for lack of succor . 
So saying , she pointed out to the spinster two napoleons which were glittering on the table . 
Ah ! Jesus God ! cried Marguerite . 
Why , it is a fortune ! Where did you get those louis d'or ? I got them , replied Fantine . 
At the same time she smiled . 
The candle illuminated her countenance . 
It was a bloody smile . 
A reddish saliva soiled the corners of her lips , and she had a black hole in her mouth . 
The two teeth had been extracted . 
She sent the forty francs to Montfermeil . 
After all it was a ruse of the Thenardiers to obtain money . 
Fantine threw her mirror out of the window . 
The poor occupant can reach the end of his chamber as he can the end of his destiny , only by bending over more and more . 
She had no longer a bed a rag which she called her coverlet , a mattress on the floor , and a seatless chair still remained . 
A little rosebush which she had , had dried up , forgotten , in one corner . 
She had lost her shame she lost her coquetry . 
She went out , with dirty caps . 
Whether from lack of time or from indifference , she no longer mended her linen . 
As the heels wore out , she dragged her stockings down into her shoes . 
This was evident from the perpendicular wrinkles . 
She patched her bodice , which was old and worn out , with scraps of calico which tore at the slightest movement . 
The people to whom she was indebted made scenes and gave her no peace . 
She found them in the street , she found them again on her staircase . 
She passed many a night weeping and thinking . 
Her eyes were very bright , and she felt a steady pain in her shoulder towards the top of the left shoulder blade . 
She coughed a great deal . 
She deeply hated Father Madeleine , but made no complaint . 
Seventeen hours of toil , and nine sous a day ! Her creditors were more pitiless than ever . 
A hundred francs , thought Fantine . 
But in what trade can one earn a hundred sous a day ? Come ! said she , let us sell what is left . 
The unfortunate girl became a woman of the town . 
CHAPTER XI CHRISTUS NOS LIBERAVIT What is this history of Fantine ? It is society purchasing a slave . 
From whom ? From misery . 
From hunger , cold , isolation , destitution . 
A soul for a morsel of bread . 
The sacred law of Jesus Christ governs our civilization , but it does not , as yet , permeate it it is said that slavery has disappeared from European civilization . 
It still exists but it weighs only upon the woman , and it is called prostitution . 
It weighs upon the woman , that is to say , upon grace , weakness , beauty , maternity . 
This is not one of the least of man's disgraces . 
At the point in this melancholy drama which we have now reached , nothing is left to Fantine of that which she had formerly been . 
She has become marble in becoming mire . 
Whoever touches her feels cold . 
She passes she endures you she ignores you she is the severe and dishonored figure . 
Life and the social order have said their last word for her . 
All has happened to her that will happen to her . 
She has felt everything , borne everything , experienced everything , suffered everything , lost everything , mourned everything . 
She is resigned , with that resignation which resembles indifference , as death resembles sleep . 
She no longer avoids anything . 
Let all the clouds fall upon her , and all the ocean sweep over her ! What matters it to her ? She is a sponge that is soaked . 
At least , she believes it to be so but it is an error to imagine that fate can be exhausted , and that one has reached the bottom of anything whatever . 
Alas ! What are all these fates , driven on pell mell ? Whither are they going ? Why are they thus ? He who knows that sees the whole of the shadow . 
M. Felix Tholomyes , had he remained in his own province and never beheld Paris , would have been one of these men . 
If they were richer , one would say , They are dandies if they were poorer , one would say , They are idlers . 
They are simply men without employment . 
Among these unemployed there are bores , the bored , dreamers , and some knaves . 
Over all , spurs and a mustache . 
At that epoch mustaches indicated the bourgeois , and spurs the pedestrian . 
The provincial dandy wore the longest of spurs and the fiercest of mustaches . 
It was the period of the conflict of the republics of South America with the King of Spain , of Bolivar against Morillo . 
Narrow brimmed hats were royalist , and were called morillos liberals wore hats with wide brims , which were called bolivars . 
This dandy was smoking , for he was decidedly fashionable . 
This gentleman was known as M. Bamatabois . 
These insults , poured forth in a voice roughened by brandy , did , indeed , proceed in hideous wise from a mouth which lacked its two front teeth . 
Her eyes were glassy she turned pale instead of livid , and she trembled with a quiver of terror . 
The dandy took advantage of the incident to make his escape . 
Neither he nor she uttered a word . 
The cloud of spectators followed , jesting , in a paroxysm of delight . 
Supreme misery an occasion for obscenity . 
Curiosity is a sort of gluttony . 
To see is to devour . 
On entering , Fantine fell down in a corner , motionless and mute , crouching down like a terrified dog . 
The sergeant of the guard brought a lighted candle to the table . 
Javert seated himself , drew a sheet of stamped paper from his pocket , and began to write . 
This class of women is consigned by our laws entirely to the discretion of the police . 
The latter do what they please , punish them , as seems good to them , and confiscate at their will those two sorry things which they entitle their industry and their liberty . 
Javert was impassive his grave face betrayed no emotion whatever . 
Nevertheless , he was seriously and deeply preoccupied . 
It was one of those moments when he was exercising without control , but subject to all the scruples of a severe conscience , his redoubtable discretionary power . 
At that moment he was conscious that his police agent's stool was a tribunal . 
He summoned all the ideas which could possibly exist in his mind , around the great thing which he was doing . 
The more he examined the deed of this woman , the more shocked he felt . 
It was evident that he had just witnessed the commission of a crime . 
A prostitute had made an attempt on the life of a citizen . 
He had seen that , he , Javert . 
Then , turning to Fantine , You are to have six months of it . 
Six months ! six months of prison ! she exclaimed . 
Monsieur Javert , said she , I beseech your mercy . 
I assure you that I was not in the wrong . 
If you had seen the beginning , you would have seen . 
I swear to you by the good God that I was not to blame ! That gentleman , the bourgeois , whom I do not know , put snow in my back . 
I did nothing I said to myself , The gentleman is amusing himself . 
I was honest with him I did not speak to him . 
It was at that moment that he put the snow down my back . 
Monsieur Javert , good Monsieur Inspector ! is there not some person here who saw it and can tell you that this is quite true ? Perhaps I did wrong to get angry . 
You know that one is not master of one's self at the first moment . 
One gives way to vivacity and then , when some one puts something cold down your back just when you are not expecting it ! I did wrong to spoil that gentleman's hat . 
Why did he go away ? I would ask his pardon . 
Oh , my God ! It makes no difference to me whether I ask his pardon . 
Do me the favor to day , for this once , Monsieur Javert . 
Oh , my God ! I cannot have her with me . 
If she were older , she might earn her living but it cannot be done at that age . 
I am not a bad woman at bottom . 
It is not cowardliness and gluttony that have made me what I am . 
If I have drunk brandy , it was out of misery . 
I do not love it but it benumbs the senses . 
When I was happy , it was only necessary to glance into my closets , and it would have been evident that I was not a coquettish and untidy woman . 
I had linen , a great deal of linen . 
Great sorrow is a divine and terrible ray , which transfigures the unhappy . 
At that moment Fantine had become beautiful once more . 
From time to time she paused , and tenderly kissed the police agent's coat . 
She would have softened a heart of granite but a heart of wood cannot be softened . 
Come ! said Javert , I have heard you out . 
Have you entirely finished ? You will get six months . 
Now march ! The Eternal Father in person could do nothing more . 
At these solemn words , the Eternal Father in person could do nothing more , she understood that her fate was sealed . 
She sank down , murmuring , Mercy ! Javert turned his back . 
The soldiers seized her by the arms . 
A few moments earlier a man had entered , but no one had paid any heed to him . 
He shut the door , leaned his back against it , and listened to Fantine's despairing supplications . 
At the instant when the soldiers laid their hands upon the unfortunate woman , who would not rise , he emerged from the shadow , and said One moment , if you please . 
Javert raised his eyes and recognized M. Madeleine . 
He removed his hat , and , saluting him with a sort of aggrieved awkwardness Excuse me , Mr. Mayor The words Mr. Mayor produced a curious effect upon Fantine . 
M. Madeleine wiped his face , and said Inspector Javert , set this woman at liberty . 
Javert felt that he was on the verge of going mad . 
He experienced at that moment , blow upon blow and almost simultaneously , the most violent emotions which he had ever undergone in all his life . 
The words had produced no less strange an effect on Fantine . 
She raised her bare arm , and clung to the damper of the stove , like a person who is reeling . 
I did not hear aright . 
That monster of a mayor , that old blackguard of a mayor , is the cause of all . 
Just imagine , Monsieur Javert , he turned me out ! all because of a pack of rascally women , who gossip in the workroom . 
In the first place , there is one improvement which these gentlemen of the police ought to make , and that is , to prevent prison contractors from wronging poor people . 
I will explain it to you , you see you are earning twelve sous at shirt making , the price falls to nine sous and it is not enough to live on . 
Then one has to become whatever one can . 
As for me , I had my little Cosette , and I was actually forced to become a bad woman . 
Now you understand how it is that that blackguard of a mayor caused all the mischief . 
After that I stamped on that gentleman's hat in front of the officers' cafe but he had spoiled my whole dress with snow . 
We women have but one silk dress for evening wear . 
You see that I did not do wrong deliberately truly , Monsieur Javert and everywhere I behold women who are far more wicked than I , and who are much happier . 
Ah ! my God ! I beg your pardon I have unintentionally touched the damper of the stove , and it has made it smoke . 
M. Madeleine listened to her with profound attention . 
While she was speaking , he fumbled in his waistcoat , drew out his purse and opened it . 
He put it back in his pocket . 
I am afraid of Monsieur Javert . 
I am afraid of my good Monsieur Javert ! So saying , she turned to the inspector again And yet , you see , Mr. Inspector , it is necessary to be just . 
But to day , you see , I cried because it hurt me . 
Here , feel , give me your hand don't be afraid it is here . 
She no longer wept , her voice was caressing she placed Javert's coarse hand on her delicate , white throat and looked smilingly at him . 
She laid her hand on the latch of the door . 
One step more and she would be in the street . 
The sound of the latch roused him . 
Sergeant ! he cried , don't you see that that jade is walking off ! Who bade you let her go ? I , said Madeleine . 
Fantine trembled at the sound of Javert's voice , and let go of the latch as a thief relinquishes the article which he has stolen . 
Why not ? said M. Madeleine . 
This miserable woman has insulted a citizen . 
Inspector Javert , replied the mayor , in a calm and conciliating tone , listen . 
You are an honest man , and I feel no hesitation in explaining matters to you . 
Javert retorted This wretch has just insulted Monsieur le Maire . 
That concerns me , said M. Madeleine . 
My own insult belongs to me , I think . 
I can do what I please about it . 
I beg Monsieur le Maire's pardon . 
The insult is not to him but to the law . 
Inspector Javert , replied M. Madeleine , the highest law is conscience . 
I have heard this woman I know what I am doing . 
And I , Mr. Mayor , do not know what I see . 
Then content yourself with obeying . 
I am obeying my duty . 
My duty demands that this woman shall serve six months in prison . 
M. Madeleine replied gently Heed this well she will not serve a single day . 
I confine myself , since Monsieur le Maire desires it , to the question of the gentleman . 
According to the terms of articles nine , eleven , fifteen , and sixty six of the code of criminal examination , I am the judge . 
I order that this woman shall be set at liberty . 
Javert ventured to make a final effort . 
But , Mr. Mayor I refer you to article eighty one of the law of the th of December , , in regard to arbitrary detention . 
Monsieur le Maire , permit me Not another word . 
But Leave the room , said M. Madeleine . 
Javert received the blow erect , full in the face , in his breast , like a Russian soldier . 
He bowed to the very earth before the mayor and left the room . 
Fantine stood aside from the door and stared at him in amazement as he passed . 
Nevertheless , she also was the prey to a strange confusion . 
She had just seen herself a subject of dispute between two opposing powers . 
I knew nothing about what you have mentioned . 
I believe that it is true , and I feel that it is true . 
I was even ignorant of the fact that you had left my shop . 
Why did you not apply to me ? But here I will pay your debts , I will send for your child , or you shall go to her . 
You shall live here , in Paris , or where you please . 
I undertake the care of your child and yourself . 
You shall not work any longer if you do not like . 
I will give all the money you require . 
You shall be honest and happy once more . 
This was more than Fantine could bear . 
To have Cosette ! To leave this life of infamy . 
To live free , rich , happy , respectable with Cosette to see all these realities of paradise blossom of a sudden in the midst of her misery . 
JAVERT CHAPTER I THE BEGINNING OF REPOSE M. Madeleine had Fantine removed to that infirmary which he had established in his own house . 
He confided her to the sisters , who put her to bed . 
A burning fever had come on . 
She passed a part of the night in delirium and raving . 
At length , however , she fell asleep . 
On the morrow , towards midday , Fantine awoke . 
She heard some one breathing close to her bed she drew aside the curtain and saw M. Madeleine standing there and looking at something over her head . 
His gaze was full of pity , anguish , and supplication . 
She followed its direction , and saw that it was fixed on a crucifix which was nailed to the wall . 
Thenceforth , M. Madeleine was transfigured in Fantine's eyes . 
He seemed to her to be clothed in light . 
He was absorbed in a sort of prayer . 
She gazed at him for a long time without daring to interrupt him . 
At last she said timidly What are you doing ? M. Madeleine had been there for an hour . 
He had been waiting for Fantine to awake . 
He answered , responding to the first question which she had put to him as though he had just heard it I was praying to the martyr there on high . 
And he added in his own mind , For the martyr here below . 
M. Madeleine had passed the night and the morning in making inquiries . 
He knew Fantine's history in all its heart rending details . 
He went on You have suffered much , poor mother . 
Oh ! do not complain you now have the dowry of the elect . 
It is thus that men are transformed into angels . 
It is not their fault they do not know how to go to work otherwise . 
You see this hell from which you have just emerged is the first form of heaven . 
It was necessary to begin there . 
But she smiled on him with that sublime smile in which two teeth were lacking . 
That same night , Javert wrote a letter . 
M. Madeleine made haste to write to the Thenardiers . 
Fantine owed them one hundred and twenty francs . 
The devil ! said the man to his wife don't let's allow the child to go . 
This lark is going to turn into a milch cow . 
Some ninny has taken a fancy to the mother . 
He replied with a very well drawn up bill for five hundred and some odd francs . 
Cosette , as we have already said , had not been ill . 
It was only a question of a trifling substitution of names . 
At the foot of the memorandum Thenardier wrote , Received on account , three hundred francs . 
M. Madeleine immediately sent three hundred francs more , and wrote , Make haste to bring Cosette . 
Christi ! said Thenardier , let's not give up the child . 
In the meantime , Fantine did not recover . 
She still remained in the infirmary . 
The sisters had at first only received and nursed that woman with repugnance . 
Those who have seen the bas reliefs of Rheims will recall the inflation of the lower lip of the wise virgins as they survey the foolish virgins . 
The ancient scorn of the vestals for the ambubajae is one of the most profound instincts of feminine dignity the sisters felt it with the double force contributed by religion . 
But in a few days Fantine disarmed them . 
She said all kinds of humble and gentle things , and the mother in her provoked tenderness . 
While I was leading a bad life , I should not have liked to have my Cosette with me I could not have borne her sad , astonished eyes . 
It was for her sake that I did evil , and that is why God pardons me . 
I shall feel the benediction of the good God when Cosette is here . 
I shall gaze at her it will do me good to see that innocent creature . 
She knows nothing at all . 
She is an angel , you see , my sisters . 
At that age the wings have not fallen off . 
M. Madeleine went to see her twice a day , and each time she asked him Shall I see my Cosette soon ? He answered To morrow , perhaps . 
She may arrive at any moment . 
And the mother's pale face grew radiant . 
Oh ! she said , how happy I am going to be ! We have just said that she did not recover her health . 
On the contrary , her condition seemed to become more grave from week to week . 
At that time people were beginning to follow the fine Laennec's fine suggestions in the study and treatment of chest maladies . 
The doctor sounded Fantine's chest and shook his head . 
M. Madeleine said to the doctor Well ? Has she not a child which she desires to see ? said the doctor . 
Well ! Make haste and get it here ! M. Madeleine shuddered . 
Fantine inquired What did the doctor say ? M. Madeleine forced himself to smile . 
He said that your child was to be brought speedily . 
That that would restore your health . 
Oh ! she rejoined , he is right ! But what do those Thenardiers mean by keeping my Cosette from me ! Oh ! she is coming . 
At last I behold happiness close beside me ! In the meantime Thenardier did not let go of the child , and gave a hundred insufficient reasons for it . 
Cosette was not quite well enough to take a journey in the winter . 
And then , there still remained some petty but pressing debts in the neighborhood , and they were collecting the bills for them , etc . 
I shall send some one to fetch Cosette ! said Father Madeleine . 
If necessary , I will go myself . 
He wrote the following letter to Fantine's dictation , and made her sign it MONSIEUR THENARDIER You will deliver Cosette to this person . 
You will be paid for all the little things . 
I have the honor to salute you with respect . 
In the meantime a serious incident occurred . 
Carve as we will the mysterious block of which our life is made , the black vein of destiny constantly reappears in it . 
Madeleine could not refrain from a disagreeable impression on hearing this name . 
Javert had avoided him more than ever since the affair of the police station , and M. Madeleine had not seen him . 
Admit him , he said . 
He did not disturb himself on Javert's account . 
He could not help thinking of poor Fantine , and it suited him to be glacial in his manner . 
Javert bestowed a respectful salute on the mayor , whose back was turned to him . 
The mayor did not look at him , but went on annotating this docket . 
Javert advanced two or three paces into the study , and halted , without breaking the silence . 
Javert had nothing in his soul which he had not also in his countenance . 
Like violent people in general , he was subject to abrupt changes of opinion . 
His physiognomy had never been more peculiar and startling . 
All the sentiments as well as all the memories which one might have attributed to him had disappeared . 
That face , as impenetrable and simple as granite , no longer bore any trace of anything but a melancholy depression . 
His whole person breathed lowliness and firmness and an indescribable courageous despondency . 
At last the mayor laid down his pen and turned half round . 
This is the matter , Mr. Mayor a culpable act has been committed . 
What act ? An inferior agent of the authorities has failed in respect , and in the gravest manner , towards a magistrate . 
I have come to bring the fact to your knowledge , as it is my duty to do . 
Who is the agent ? asked M. Madeleine . 
You ? I. And who is the magistrate who has reason to complain of the agent ? You , Mr. Mayor . 
M. Madeleine sat erect in his arm chair . 
Javert went on , with a severe air and his eyes still cast down . 
Mr. Mayor , I have come to request you to instigate the authorities to dismiss me . 
M. Madeleine opened his mouth in amazement . 
Javert interrupted him You will say that I might have handed in my resignation , but that does not suffice . 
Handing in one's resignation is honorable . 
I have failed in my duty I ought to be punished I must be turned out . 
And after a pause he added Mr. Mayor , you were severe with me the other day , and unjustly . 
Be so to day , with justice . 
Come , now ! Why ? exclaimed M. Madeleine . 
Turned out so it be , then . 
You shall understand , Mr. Mayor . 
Informed against me ! At the Prefecture of Police in Paris . 
Javert , who had not raised his eyes , went on I thought it was so . 
A certain What did you say the name was ? Jean Valjean . 
He was a convict whom I was in the habit of seeing twenty years ago , when I was adjutant guard of convicts at Toulon . 
He disappeared eight years ago , no one knows how , and he has been sought , I fancied . 
Well ? Well , they were right . 
It is lucky that you recognize the fact . 
I am forced to do so , since the real Jean Valjean has been found . 
It seems that there was in the neighborhood near Ailly le Haut Clocher an old fellow who was called Father Champmathieu . 
He was a very wretched creature . 
No one paid any attention to him . 
No one knows what such people subsist on . 
He still had the branch of apple tree in his hand . 
The scamp is locked up . 
Up to this point it was merely an affair of a misdemeanor . 
But here is where Providence intervened . 
The jail being in a bad condition , the examining magistrate finds it convenient to transfer Champmathieu to Arras , where the departmental prison is situated . 
Don't play the innocent dodge , says Brevet . 
You are Jean Valjean ! You have been in the galleys of Toulon it was twenty years ago we were there together . 
The thing was well ventilated for me . 
This is what they discovered This Champmathieu had been , thirty years ago , a pruner of trees in various localities , notably at Faverolles . 
There all trace of him was lost . 
Now , before going to the galleys for theft , what was Jean Valjean ? A pruner of trees . 
This Valjean's Christian name was Jean , and his mother's surname was Mathieu . 
The local pronunciation turns Jean into Chan he is called Chan Mathieu . 
Our man offers no opposition , and behold him transformed into Champmathieu . 
You follow me , do you not ? Inquiries were made at Faverolles . 
The family of Jean Valjean is no longer there . 
It is not known where they have gone . 
You know that among those classes a family often disappears . 
Search was made , and nothing was found . 
When such people are not mud , they are dust . 
And then , as the beginning of the story dates thirty years back , there is no longer any one at Faverolles who knew Jean Valjean . 
Inquiries were made at Toulon . 
Besides Brevet , there are only two convicts in existence who have seen Jean Valjean they are Cochepaille and Chenildieu , and are sentenced for life . 
They are taken from the galleys and confronted with the pretended Champmathieu . 
They do not hesitate he is Jean Valjean for them as well as for Brevet . 
The same age , he is fifty four , the same height , the same air , the same man in short , it is he . 
It was precisely at this moment that I forwarded my denunciation to the Prefecture in Paris . 
I was told that I had lost my reason , and that Jean Valjean is at Arras , in the power of the authorities . 
You can imagine whether this surprised me , when I thought that I had that same Jean Valjean here . 
I write to the examining judge he sends for me Champmathieu is conducted to me An ex convict . 
Well ? interposed M. Madeleine . 
Javert replied , his face incorruptible , and as melancholy as ever Mr. Mayor , the truth is the truth . 
I am sorry but that man is Jean Valjean . 
M. Madeleine resumed in , a very low voice You are sure ? Javert began to laugh , with that mournful laugh which comes from profound conviction . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. Mayor . 
If he is Jean Valjean , he has his previous conviction against him . 
Robbing and housebreaking it is all there . 
It is no longer a question of correctional police it is a matter for the Court of Assizes . 
It is no longer a matter of a few days in prison it is the galleys for life . 
And then , there is the affair with the little Savoyard , who will return , I hope . 
The deuce ! there is plenty to dispute in the matter , is there not ? Yes , for any one but Jean Valjean . 
But Jean Valjean is a sly dog . 
That is the way I recognized him . 
Oh ! the rogue is clever ! But it makes no difference . 
He has been recognized by four persons the old scamp will be condemned . 
The case has been taken to the Assizes at Arras . 
I shall go there to give my testimony . 
M. Madeleine had turned to his desk again , and taken up his docket , and was turning over the leaves tranquilly , reading and writing by turns , like a busy man . 
He turned to Javert That will do , Javert . 
In truth , all these details interest me but little . 
We are wasting our time , and we have pressing business on hand . 
Javert , you will betake yourself at once to the house of the woman Buseaupied , who sells herbs at the corner of the Rue Saint Saulve . 
You will tell her that she must enter her complaint against carter Pierre Chesnelong . 
The man is a brute , who came near crushing this woman and her child . 
You will then go to M. Charcellay , Rue Montre de Champigny . 
He complained that there is a gutter on the adjoining house which discharges rain water on his premises , and is undermining the foundations of his house . 
But I am giving you a great deal of work . 
M. Madeleine made an imperceptible movement . 
And how long will the case last ? One day , at the most . 
The judgment will be pronounced to morrow evening at latest . 
But I shall not wait for the sentence , which is certain I shall return here as soon as my deposition has been taken . 
That is well , said M. Madeleine . 
And he dismissed Javert with a wave of the hand . 
Excuse me , Mr. Mayor , said he . 
What is it now ? demanded M. Madeleine . 
Mr. Mayor , there is still something of which I must remind you . 
What is it ? That I must be dismissed . 
Javert , you are a man of honor , and I esteem you . 
Moreover , this is an offence which concerns me . 
Javert , you deserve promotion instead of degradation . 
I wish you to retain your post . 
I repeat , replied M. Madeleine , that the matter concerns me . 
But Javert , heeding his own thought only , continued So far as exaggeration is concerned , I am not exaggerating . 
This is the way I reason I have suspected you unjustly . 
It is our right to cherish suspicion , although suspicion directed above ourselves is an abuse . 
Well ? Stop , Mr. Mayor one word more . 
I have often been severe in the course of my life towards others . 
Now , if I were not severe towards myself , all the justice that I have done would become injustice . 
Mr. Mayor , I do not desire that you should treat me kindly your kindness roused sufficient bad blood in me when it was directed to others . 
I want none of it for myself . 
That is the sort of kindness which disorganizes society . 
Good God ! it is very easy to be kind the difficulty lies in being just . 
So much the worse ! Come , discharged , cashiered , expelled ! That is well . 
I will till the soil it makes no difference to me . 
Mr. Mayor , the good of the service demands an example . 
I simply require the discharge of Inspector Javert . 
All this was uttered in a proud , humble , despairing , yet convinced tone , which lent indescribable grandeur to this singular , honest man . 
We shall see , said M. Madeleine . 
And he offered him his hand . 
Javert recoiled , and said in a wild voice Excuse me , Mr. Mayor , but this must not be . 
A mayor does not offer his hand to a police spy . 
He added between his teeth A police spy , yes from the moment when I have misused the police . 
I am no more than a police spy . 
Then he bowed profoundly , and directed his steps towards the door . 
There he wheeled round , and with eyes still downcast Mr. Mayor , he said , I shall continue to serve until I am superseded . 
M. Madeleine remained thoughtfully listening to the firm , sure step , which died away on the pavement of the corridor . 
Among these details the reader will encounter two or three improbable circumstances , which we preserve out of respect for the truth . 
On the afternoon following the visit of Javert , M. Madeleine went to see Fantine according to his wont . 
Before entering Fantine's room , he had Sister Simplice summoned . 
The two nuns who performed the services of nurse in the infirmary , Lazariste ladies , like all sisters of charity , bore the names of Sister Perpetue and Sister Simplice . 
Sister Perpetue was an ordinary villager , a sister of charity in a coarse style , who had entered the service of God as one enters any other service . 
She was a nun as other women are cooks . 
This type is not so very rare . 
The monastic orders gladly accept this heavy peasant earthenware , which is easily fashioned into a Capuchin or an Ursuline . 
These rustics are utilized for the rough work of devotion . 
Sister Simplice was white , with a waxen pallor . 
Beside Sister Perpetue , she was the taper beside the candle . 
This ideal was realized in the living person of Sister Simplice she had never been young , and it seemed as though she would never grow old . 
No one could have told Sister Simplice's age . 
She was a person we dare not say a woman who was gentle , austere , well bred , cold , and who had never lied . 
She was so gentle that she appeared fragile but she was more solid than granite . 
She touched the unhappy with fingers that were charmingly pure and fine . 
This delicacy accommodated itself to the serge gown , finding in this harsh contact a continual reminder of heaven and of God . 
Let us emphasize one detail . 
She was almost renowned in the congregation for this imperturbable veracity . 
The Abbe Sicard speaks of Sister Simplice in a letter to the deaf mute Massieu . 
However pure and sincere we may be , we all bear upon our candor the crack of the little , innocent lie . 
Little lie , innocent lie does such a thing exist ? To lie is the absolute form of evil . 
To lie a little is not possible he who lies , lies the whole lie . 
To lie is the very face of the demon . 
Satan has two names he is called Satan and Lying . 
That is what she thought and as she thought , so she did . 
The result was the whiteness which we have mentioned a whiteness which covered even her lips and her eyes with radiance . 
Her smile was white , her glance was white . 
There was not a single spider's web , not a grain of dust , on the glass window of that conscience . 
On entering the order of Saint Vincent de Paul , she had taken the name of Simplice by special choice . 
This patron saint suited this soul . 
Sister Simplice , on her entrance into the order , had had two faults which she had gradually corrected she had a taste for dainties , and she liked to receive letters . 
She never read anything but a book of prayers printed in Latin , in coarse type . 
She did not understand Latin , but she understood the book . 
This pious woman had conceived an affection for Fantine , probably feeling a latent virtue there , and she had devoted herself almost exclusively to her care . 
M. Madeleine took Sister Simplice apart and recommended Fantine to her in a singular tone , which the sister recalled later on . 
On leaving the sister , he approached Fantine . 
Fantine awaited M. Madeleine's appearance every day as one awaits a ray of warmth and joy . 
She said to the sisters , I only live when Monsieur le Maire is here . 
She had a great deal of fever that day . 
As soon as she saw M. Madeleine she asked him And Cosette ? He replied with a smile Soon . 
M. Madeleine was the same as usual with Fantine . 
Only he remained an hour instead of half an hour , to Fantine's great delight . 
He urged every one repeatedly not to allow the invalid to want for anything . 
It was noticed that there was a moment when his countenance became very sombre . 
But this was explained when it became known that the doctor had bent down to his ear and said to him , She is losing ground fast . 
Then he returned to the town hall , and the clerk observed him attentively examining a road map of France which hung in his study . 
He wrote a few figures on a bit of paper with a pencil . 
In order to reach this Scaufflaire , the shortest way was to take the little frequented street in which was situated the parsonage of the parish in which M. Madeleine resided . 
The cure was , it was said , a worthy , respectable , and sensible man . 
M. Madeleine found Master Scaufflaire at home , engaged in stitching a harness over . 
Master Scaufflaire , he inquired , have you a good horse ? Mr. Mayor , said the Fleming , all my horses are good . 
What do you mean by a good horse ? I mean a horse which can travel twenty leagues in a day . 
The deuce ! said the Fleming . 
Hitched to a cabriolet ? Yes . 
And how long can he rest at the end of his journey ? He must be able to set out again on the next day if necessary . 
To traverse the same road ? Yes . 
The deuce ! the deuce ! And it is twenty leagues ? M. Madeleine drew from his pocket the paper on which he had pencilled some figures . 
He showed it to the Fleming . 
The figures were , , . 
You see , he said , total , nineteen and a half as well say twenty leagues . 
Mr. Mayor , returned the Fleming , I have just what you want . 
My little white horse you may have seen him pass occasionally he is a small beast from Lower Boulonnais . 
He is full of fire . 
They wanted to make a saddle horse of him at first . 
Bah ! He reared , he kicked , he laid everybody flat on the ground . 
He was thought to be vicious , and no one knew what to do with him . 
I harnessed him to a carriage . 
That is what he wanted , sir he is as gentle as a girl he goes like the wind . 
Ah ! indeed he must not be mounted . 
It does not suit his ideas to be a saddle horse . 
Every one has his ambition . 
Carry ? No. We must suppose that is what he said to himself . 
And he will accomplish the trip ? Your twenty leagues all at a full trot , and in less than eight hours . 
But here are the conditions . 
Some one will be by . 
In the second place is the cabriolet for Monsieur le Maire ? Yes . 
Does Monsieur le Maire know how to drive ? Yes . 
Well , Monsieur le Maire will travel alone and without baggage , in order not to overload the horse ? Agreed . 
But as Monsieur le Maire will have no one with him , he will be obliged to take the trouble himself of seeing that the oats are not stolen . 
I am to have thirty francs a day . 
The days of rest to be paid for also not a farthing less and the beast's food to be at Monsieur le Maire's expense . 
M. Madeleine drew three napoleons from his purse and laid them on the table . 
Here is the pay for two days in advance . 
Fourthly , for such a journey a cabriolet would be too heavy , and would fatigue the horse . 
Monsieur le Maire must consent to travel in a little tilbury that I own . 
It is light , but it has no cover . 
That makes no difference to me . 
Has Monsieur le Maire reflected that we are in the middle of winter ? M. Madeleine did not reply . 
The Fleming resumed That it is very cold ? M. Madeleine preserved silence . 
Are your horse's forelegs good ? said M. Madeleine . 
Yes , Monsieur le Maire . 
You must hold him in a little when going down hill . 
The Fleming remained utterly stupid , as he himself said some time afterwards . 
The mayor had been gone two or three minutes when the door opened again it was the mayor once more . 
He still wore the same impassive and preoccupied air . 
Well ? Does Monsieur le Maire wish to purchase them or me ? No but I wish to guarantee you in any case . 
You shall give me back the sum at my return . 
At what value do you estimate your horse and cabriolet ? Five hundred francs , Monsieur le Maire . 
M. Madeleine laid a bank bill on the table , then left the room and this time he did not return . 
Master Scaufflaire experienced a frightful regret that he had not said a thousand francs . 
Besides the horse and tilbury together were worth but a hundred crowns . 
The Fleming called his wife , and related the affair to her . 
Where the devil could Monsieur le Maire be going ? They held counsel together . 
He is going to Paris , said the wife . 
I don't believe it , said the husband . 
M. Madeleine had forgotten the paper with the figures on it , and it lay on the chimney piece . 
The Fleming picked it up and studied it . 
Five , six , eight and a half ? That must designate the posting relays . 
He turned to his wife I have found out . 
What ? It is five leagues from here to Hesdin , six from Hesdin to Saint Pol , eight and a half from Saint Pol to Arras . 
He is going to Arras . 
Meanwhile , M. Madeleine had returned home . 
He had taken the longest way to return from Master Scaufflaire's , as though the parsonage door had been a temptation for him , and he had wished to avoid it . 
He ascended to his room , and there he shut himself up , which was a very simple act , since he liked to go to bed early . 
This cashier occupied a room situated directly under M. Madeleine's chamber . 
He paid no heed to the portress's words , but went to bed and to sleep . 
Towards midnight he woke up with a start in his sleep he had heard a noise above his head . 
He listened it was a footstep pacing back and forth , as though some one were walking in the room above him . 
He listened more attentively , and recognized M. Madeleine's step . 
This struck him as strange usually , there was no noise in M. Madeleine's chamber until he rose in the morning . 
The reflection wavered , as though it came rather from a fire which had been lighted than from a candle . 
The shadow of the window frame was not shown , which indicated that the window was wide open . 
The fact that this window was open in such cold weather was surprising . 
The cashier fell asleep again . 
An hour or two later he waked again . 
The same step was still passing slowly and regularly back and forth overhead . 
The reflection was still visible on the wall , but now it was pale and peaceful , like the reflection of a lamp or of a candle . 
The window was still open . 
This is what had taken place in M. Madeleine's room . 
CHAPTER III A TEMPEST IN A SKULL The reader has , no doubt , already divined that M. Madeleine is no other than Jean Valjean . 
We have already gazed into the depths of this conscience the moment has now come when we must take another look into it . 
We do so not without emotion and trepidation . 
There is nothing more terrible in existence than this sort of contemplation . 
There is a spectacle more grand than the sea it is heaven there is a spectacle more grand than heaven it is the inmost recesses of the soul . 
Penetrate , at certain hours , past the livid face of a human being who is engaged in reflection , and look behind , gaze into that soul , gaze into that obscurity . 
Here is one before us , upon whose threshold we hesitate . 
Let us enter , nevertheless . 
We have but little to add to what the reader already knows of what had happened to Jean Valjean after the adventure with Little Gervais . 
From that moment forth he was , as we have seen , a totally different man . 
What the Bishop had wished to make of him , that he carried out . 
It was more than a transformation it was a transfiguration . 
These two thoughts were so closely intertwined in his mind that they formed but a single one there both were equally absorbing and imperative and ruled his slightest actions . 
In general , they conspired to regulate the conduct of his life they turned him towards the gloom they rendered him kindly and simple they counselled him to the same things . 
Sometimes , however , they conflicted . 
At the same time , it must be confessed , nothing just like this had yet presented itself . 
Never had the two ideas which governed the unhappy man whose sufferings we are narrating , engaged in so serious a struggle . 
He understood this confusedly but profoundly at the very first words pronounced by Javert , when the latter entered his study . 
He bent like an oak at the approach of a storm , like a soldier at the approach of an assault . 
He felt shadows filled with thunders and lightnings descending upon his head . 
Then it passed away , and he said to himself , We will see ! We will see ! He repressed this first , generous instinct , and recoiled before heroism . 
We must render an account of the things which went on in this soul , and we can only tell what there was there . 
He remained in this state during the rest of the day , a whirlwind within , a profound tranquillity without . 
He took no preservative measures , as they may be called . 
Everything was still confused , and jostling together in his brain . 
He dined with a good deal of appetite . 
On returning to his room , he communed with himself . 
He feared lest something more should enter . 
He was barricading himself against possibilities . 
A moment later he extinguished his light it embarrassed him . 
lt seemed to him as though he might be seen . 
By whom ? Alas ! That on which he desired to close the door had already entered that which he desired to blind was staring him in the face , his conscience . 
His conscience that is to say , God . 
Nevertheless , he deluded himself at first he had a feeling of security and of solitude the bolt once drawn , he thought himself impregnable the candle extinguished , he felt himself invisible . 
Then he took possession of himself he set his elbows on the table , leaned his head on his hand , and began to meditate in the dark . 
His brain had lost its power of retaining ideas they passed like waves , and he clutched his brow in both hands to arrest them . 
Nothing but anguish extricated itself from this tumult which overwhelmed his will and his reason , and from which he sought to draw proof and resolution . 
He went to the window and threw it wide open . 
There were no stars in the sky . 
He returned and seated himself at the table . 
The first hour passed in this manner . 
He began by recognizing the fact that , critical and extraordinary as was this situation , he was completely master of it . 
This only caused an increase of his stupor . 
He shuddered at the very thought that this was possible . 
He came more and more to an understanding of his position . 
He hastily relighted his candle . 
Well , what then ? he said to himself what am I afraid of ? What is there in all that for me to think about ? I am safe all is over . 
It is certain that people do talk to themselves there is no living being who has not done it . 
The realities of the soul are none the less realities because they are not visible and palpable . 
So he asked himself where he stood . 
He interrogated himself upon that settled resolve . 
He spit it out with disgust . 
He continued to question himself . 
He was becoming an assassin . 
He was murdering , morally murdering , a wretched man . 
He was inflicting on him that frightful living death , that death beneath the open sky , which is called the galleys . 
This must be done ! He had done nothing if he did not do all this his whole life was useless all his penitence was wasted . 
So he must go to Arras , deliver the false Jean Valjean , and denounce the real one . 
Alas ! that was the greatest of sacrifices , the most poignant of victories , the last step to take but it must be done . 
Sad fate ! he would enter into sanctity only in the eyes of God when he returned to infamy in the eyes of men . 
Well , said he , let us decide upon this let us do our duty let us save this man . 
He uttered these words aloud , without perceiving that he was speaking aloud . 
He took his books , verified them , and put them in order . 
He flung in the fire a bundle of bills which he had against petty and embarrassed tradesmen . 
He drew from his secretary a pocket book which contained several bank notes and the passport of which he had made use that same year when he went to the elections . 
When he had finished the letter to M. Laffitte , he put it into his pocket , together with the pocket book , and began his walk once more . 
His revery had not swerved from its course . 
For the first time they appeared to him as absolutely distinct , and he perceived the distance which separated them . 
He saw them in conflict . 
In proportion as he meditated , they grew before the eyes of his spirit . 
He was filled with terror but it seemed to him that the good thought was getting the upper hand . 
After the grand crisis , the grand test . 
But the fever , allayed for an instant , gradually resumed possession of him . 
A thousand thoughts traversed his mind , but they continued to fortify him in his resolution . 
He answered himself If this man has , indeed , stolen a few apples , that means a month in prison . 
It is a long way from that to the galleys . 
And who knows ? Did he steal ? Has it been proved ? The name of Jean Valjean overwhelms him , and seems to dispense with proofs . 
Do not the attorneys for the Crown always proceed in this manner ? He is supposed to be a thief because he is known to be a convict . 
He turned aside from all illusions , detached himself more and more from earth , and sought strength and consolation elsewhere . 
The stirring up of these lugubrious ideas did not cause his courage to fail , but his brain grow weary . 
He began to think of other things , of indifferent matters , in spite of himself . 
He was cold he lighted a small fire it did not occur to him to close the window . 
Ah ! yes , he said to himself , I had resolved to inform against myself . 
And then , all of a sudden , he thought of Fantine . 
Hold ! said he , and what about that poor woman ? Here a fresh crisis declared itself . 
What if I were to think a little about others ? The highest holiness is to think of others come , let us examine the matter . 
If I do not denounce myself ? come , let us see how it will be if I do not denounce myself . 
He rose and resumed his march this time , he seemed to be content . 
Diamonds are found only in the dark places of the earth truths are found only in the depths of thought . 
He looked into the little mirror which hung above his chimney piece , and said Hold ! it has relieved me to come to a decision I am quite another man now . 
He proceeded a few paces further , then he stopped short . 
Those who had seen Jean Valjean at the epoch when he passed through D in October , , could easily have recognized all the pieces of this miserable outfit . 
After the lapse of a few seconds , the room and the opposite wall were lighted up with a fierce , red , tremulous glow . 
Everything was on fire the thorn cudgel snapped and threw out sparks to the middle of the chamber . 
As the knapsack was consumed , together with the hideous rags which it contained , it revealed something which sparkled in the ashes . 
By bending over , one could have readily recognized a coin , no doubt the forty sou piece stolen from the little Savoyard . 
He did not look at the fire , but paced back and forth with the same step . 
All at once his eye fell on the two silver candlesticks , which shone vaguely on the chimney piece , through the glow . 
Hold ! he thought the whole of Jean Valjean is still in them . 
They must be destroyed also . 
He seized the two candlesticks . 
There was still fire enough to allow of their being put out of shape , and converted into a sort of unrecognizable bar of metal . 
He bent over the hearth and warmed himself for a moment . 
He felt a sense of real comfort . 
How good warmth is ! said he . 
He stirred the live coals with one of the candlesticks . 
A minute more , and they were both in the fire . 
Yes , that's it ! finish ! said the voice . 
Yes , it is well arranged thus . 
Ah , wretch ! The perspiration streamed from his brow . 
He fixed a haggard eye on the candlesticks . 
But that within him which had spoken had not finished . 
Well ! listen , infamous man ! All those benedictions will fall back before they reach heaven , and only the malediction will ascend to God . 
It seemed to him that it had detached itself from him , and that it was now speaking outside of him . 
He thought that he heard the last words so distinctly , that he glanced around the room in a sort of terror . 
Is there any one here ? he demanded aloud , in utter bewilderment . 
He placed the candlesticks on the chimney piece . 
Then he resumed his monotonous and lugubrious tramp , which troubled the dreams of the sleeping man beneath him , and awoke him with a start . 
This tramping to and fro soothed and at the same time intoxicated him . 
It sometimes seems , on supreme occasions , as though people moved about for the purpose of asking advice of everything that they may encounter by change of place . 
After the lapse of a few minutes he no longer knew his position . 
He now recoiled in equal terror before both the resolutions at which he had arrived in turn . 
The two ideas which counselled him appeared to him equally fatal . 
He should have to bid farewell to that existence which was so good , so pure , so radiant , to the respect of all , to honor , to liberty . 
His ideas began to grow confused once more they assumed a kind of stupefied and mechanical quality which is peculiar to despair . 
The name of Romainville recurred incessantly to his mind , with the two verses of a song which he had heard in the past . 
He thought that Romainville was a little grove near Paris , where young lovers go to pluck lilacs in the month of April . 
He wavered outwardly as well as inwardly . 
He walked like a little child who is permitted to toddle alone . 
At intervals , as he combated his lassitude , he made an effort to recover the mastery of his mind . 
The vague aspects of all the courses of reasoning which had been sketched out by his meditations quivered and vanished , one after the other , into smoke . 
Alas ! all his resolution had again taken possession of him . 
He was no further advanced than at the beginning . 
Thus did this unhappy soul struggle in its anguish . 
There he fell asleep and had a dream . 
This dream , like the majority of dreams , bore no relation to the situation , except by its painful and heart rending character , but it made an impression on him . 
This nightmare struck him so forcibly that he wrote it down later on . 
It is one of the papers in his own handwriting which he has bequeathed to us . 
We think that we have here reproduced the thing in strict accordance with the text . 
Of whatever nature this dream may be , the history of this night would be incomplete if we were to omit it it is the gloomy adventure of an ailing soul . 
On the envelope we find this line inscribed , The Dream I had that Night . 
I was in a plain a vast , gloomy plain , where there was no grass . 
It did not seem to me to be daylight nor yet night . 
I was walking with my brother , the brother of my childish years , the brother of whom , I must say , I never think , and whom I now hardly remember . 
We were conversing and we met some passers by . 
We were talking of a neighbor of ours in former days , who had always worked with her window open from the time when she came to live on the street . 
As we talked we felt cold because of that open window . 
There were no trees in the plain . 
We saw a man passing close to us . 
He was entirely nude , of the hue of ashes , and mounted on a horse which was earth color . 
The man had no hair we could see his skull and the veins on it . 
In his hand he held a switch which was as supple as a vine shoot and as heavy as iron . 
This horseman passed and said nothing to us . 
My brother said to me , Let us take to the hollow road . 
There existed a hollow way wherein one saw neither a single shrub nor a spear of moss . 
Everything was dirt colored , even the sky . 
After proceeding a few paces , I received no reply when I spoke I perceived that my brother was no longer with me . 
I entered a village which I espied . 
I reflected that it must be Romainville . 
This parenthesis is due to Jean Valjean . 
The first street that I entered was deserted . 
I entered a second street . 
Behind the angle formed by the two streets , a man was standing erect against the wall . 
I said to this Man What country is this ? Where am I ? The man made no reply . 
I saw the door of a house open , and I entered . 
The first chamber was deserted . 
Behind the door of this chamber a man was standing erect against the wall . 
I inquired of this man , Whose house is this ? Where am I ? The man replied not . 
The house had a garden . 
I quitted the house and entered the garden . 
Behind the first tree I found a man standing upright . 
I said to this man , What garden is this ? Where am I ? The man did not answer . 
I strolled into the village , and perceived that it was a town . 
All the streets were deserted , all the doors were open . 
Not a single living being was passing in the streets , walking through the chambers or strolling in the gardens . 
But behind each angle of the walls , behind each door , behind each tree , stood a silent man . 
Only one was to be seen at a time . 
These men watched me pass . 
I left the town and began to ramble about the fields . 
After the lapse of some time I turned back and saw a great crowd coming up behind me . 
I recognized all the men whom I had seen in that town . 
They did not seem to be in a hurry , yet they walked faster than I did . 
They made no noise as they walked . 
In an instant this crowd had overtaken and surrounded me . 
The faces of these men were earthen in hue . 
A wind which was chill like the breeze of dawn was rattling the leaves of the window , which had been left open on their hinges . 
The candle was nearing its end . 
It was still black night . 
He rose , he went to the window . 
There were no stars in the sky even yet . 
From his window the yard of the house and the street were visible . 
A sharp , harsh noise , which made him drop his eyes , resounded from the earth . 
Below him he perceived two red stars , whose rays lengthened and shortened in a singular manner through the darkness . 
As his thoughts were still half immersed in the mists of sleep , Hold ! said he , there are no stars in the sky . 
They are on earth now . 
But this confusion vanished a second sound similar to the first roused him thoroughly he looked and recognized the fact that these two stars were the lanterns of a carriage . 
By the light which they cast he was able to distinguish the form of this vehicle . 
It was a tilbury harnessed to a small white horse . 
The noise which he had heard was the trampling of the horse's hoofs on the pavement . 
What vehicle is this ? he said to himself . 
Who is coming here so early in the morning ? At that moment there came a light tap on the door of his chamber . 
He shuddered from head to foot , and cried in a terrible voice Who is there ? Some one said I , Monsieur le Maire . 
He recognized the voice of the old woman who was his portress . 
Well ! he replied , what is it ? Monsieur le Maire , it is just five o'clock in the morning . 
What is that to me ? The cabriolet is here , Monsieur le Maire . 
What cabriolet ? The tilbury . 
What tilbury ? Did not Monsieur le Maire order a tilbury ? No , said he . 
The coachman says that he has come for Monsieur le Maire . 
What coachman ? M. Scaufflaire's coachman . 
M. Scaufflaire ? That name sent a shudder over him , as though a flash of lightning had passed in front of his face . 
Ah ! yes , he resumed M. Scaufflaire ! If the old woman could have seen him at that moment , she would have been frightened . 
A tolerably long silence ensued . 
He examined the flame of the candle with a stupid air , and from around the wick he took some of the burning wax , which he rolled between his fingers . 
The old woman waited for him . 
She even ventured to uplift her voice once more What am I to say , Monsieur le Maire ? Say that it is well , and that I am coming down . 
CHAPTER V HINDRANCES The posting service from Arras to M. sur M. was still operated at this period by small mail wagons of the time of the Empire . 
The wheels were armed with those long , offensive axles which keep other vehicles at a distance , and which may still be seen on the road in Germany . 
The despatch box , an immense oblong coffer , was placed behind the vehicle and formed a part of it . 
This coffer was painted black , and the cabriolet yellow . 
But they travelled at a very rapid rate . 
The wheel of the tilbury received quite a violent shock . 
The postman shouted to the man to stop , but the traveller paid no heed and pursued his road at full gallop . 
That man is in a devilish hurry ! said the postman . 
The man thus hastening on was the one whom we have just seen struggling in convulsions which are certainly deserving of pity . 
Whither was he going ? He could not have told . 
Why was he hastening ? He did not know . 
He was driving at random , straight ahead . 
Whither ? To Arras , no doubt but he might have been going elsewhere as well . 
At times he was conscious of it , and he shuddered . 
He plunged into the night as into a gulf . 
Something urged him forward something drew him on . 
No one could have told what was taking place within him every one will understand it . 
None of the actions of his conscience had been decisive . 
He was , more than ever , as he had been at the first moment . 
He clung to this thought . 
At bottom , to tell the whole truth , he would have preferred not to go to Arras . 
Nevertheless , he was going thither . 
As he meditated , he whipped up his horse , which was proceeding at that fine , regular , and even trot which accomplishes two leagues and a half an hour . 
In proportion as the cabriolet advanced , he felt something within him draw back . 
At daybreak he was in the open country the town of M. sur M. lay far behind him . 
He watched the horizon grow white he stared at all the chilly figures of a winter's dawn as they passed before his eyes , but without seeing them . 
The morning has its spectres as well as the evening . 
These things are charming when one is joyous , and lugubrious when one is sad . 
It was broad daylight when he arrived at Hesdin . 
He halted in front of the inn , to allow the horse a breathing spell , and to have him given some oats . 
The excellent beast had travelled five leagues in two hours , and had not a drop of sweat on his loins . 
He did not get out of the tilbury . 
The stableman who brought the oats suddenly bent down and examined the left wheel . 
Are you going far in this condition ? said the man . 
He replied , with an air of not having roused himself from his revery Why ? Have you come from a great distance ? went on the man . 
He sprang out of the tilbury . 
Just see here ! The wheel really had suffered serious damage . 
The shock administered by the mail wagon had split two spokes and strained the hub , so that the nut no longer held firm . 
My friend , he said to the stableman , is there a wheelwright here ? Certainly , sir . 
Do me the service to go and fetch him . 
He is only a step from here . 
Hey ! Master Bourgaillard ! Master Bourgaillard , the wheelwright , was standing on his own threshold . 
He came , examined the wheel and made a grimace like a surgeon when the latter thinks a limb is broken . 
Can you repair this wheel immediately ? Yes , sir . 
When can I set out again ? To morrow . 
To morrow ! There is a long day's work on it . 
Are you in a hurry , sir ? In a very great hurry . 
I must set out again in an hour at the latest . 
I will pay whatever you ask . 
Well , in two hours , then . 
Two new spokes and a hub must be made . 
Monsieur will not be able to start before to morrow morning . 
The matter cannot wait until to morrow . 
What if you were to replace this wheel instead of repairing it ? How so ? You are a wheelwright ? Certainly , sir . 
Have you not a wheel that you can sell me ? Then I could start again at once . 
A spare wheel ? Yes . 
I have no wheel on hand that would fit your cabriolet . 
Two wheels make a pair . 
Two wheels cannot be put together hap hazard . 
In that case , sell me a pair of wheels . 
Not all wheels fit all axles , sir . 
It is useless , sir . 
I have nothing to sell but cart wheels . 
We are but a poor country here . 
Have you a cabriolet that you can let me have ? The wheelwright had seen at the first glance that the tilbury was a hired vehicle . 
You treat the cabriolets that people let you so well ! If I had one , I would not let it to you ! Well , sell it to me , then . 
What ! not even a spring cart ? I am not hard to please , as you see . 
We live in a poor country . 
I will take two post horses . 
Where is Monsieur going ? To Arras . 
And Monsieur wishes to reach there to day ? Yes , of course . 
By taking two post horses ? Why not ? Does it make any difference whether Monsieur arrives at four o'clock to morrow morning ? Certainly not . 
There is one thing to be said about that , you see , by taking post horses Monsieur has his passport ? Yes . 
Well , by taking post horses , Monsieur cannot reach Arras before to morrow . 
We are on a cross road . 
The relays are badly served , the horses are in the fields . 
The season for ploughing is just beginning heavy teams are required , and horses are seized upon everywhere , from the post as well as elsewhere . 
Monsieur will have to wait three or four hours at the least at every relay . 
And , then , they drive at a walk . 
There are many hills to ascend . 
Come then , I will go on horseback . 
Some one can surely sell me a saddle in the neighborhood . 
But will this horse bear the saddle ? That is true you remind me of that he will not bear it . 
Then But I can surely hire a horse in the village ? A horse to travel to Arras at one stretch ? Yes . 
That would require such a horse as does not exist in these parts . 
You would have to buy it to begin with , because no one knows you . 
But you will not find one for sale nor to let , for five hundred francs , or for a thousand . 
What am I to do ? The best thing is to let me repair the wheel like an honest man , and set out on your journey to morrow . 
To morrow will be too late . 
The deuce ! Is there not a mail wagon which runs to Arras ? When will it pass ? To night . 
Both the posts pass at night the one going as well as the one coming . 
What ! It will take you a day to mend this wheel ? A day , and a good long one . 
If you set two men to work ? If I set ten men to work . 
It was evident that Providence was intervening . 
That it was it who had broken the wheel of the tilbury and who was stopping him on the road . 
If he went no further , that was no fault of his . 
It did not concern him further . 
It was no longer his fault . 
It was not the act of his own conscience , but the act of Providence . 
He breathed freely and to the full extent of his lungs for the first time since Javert's visit . 
It seemed to him that the hand of iron which had held his heart in its grasp for the last twenty hours had just released him . 
It seemed to him that God was for him now , and was manifesting Himself . 
He said himself that he had done all he could , and that now he had nothing to do but retrace his steps quietly . 
Any colloquy in the street inevitably attracts a crowd . 
There are always people who ask nothing better than to become spectators . 
While he was questioning the wheelwright , some people who were passing back and forth halted around them . 
After listening for a few minutes , a young lad , to whom no one had paid any heed , detached himself from the group and ran off . 
At the moment when the traveller , after the inward deliberation which we have just described , resolved to retrace his steps , this child returned . 
He was accompanied by an old woman . 
Monsieur , said the woman , my boy tells me that you wish to hire a cabriolet . 
These simple words uttered by an old woman led by a child made the perspiration trickle down his limbs . 
He thought that he beheld the hand which had relaxed its grasp reappear in the darkness behind him , ready to seize him once more . 
He answered Yes , my good woman I am in search of a cabriolet which I can hire . 
And he hastened to add But there is none in the place . 
Certainly there is , said the old woman . 
Where ? interpolated the wheelwright . 
At my house , replied the old woman . 
The fatal hand had grasped him again . 
The old woman really had in her shed a sort of basket spring cart . 
The wheelwright and the stable man , in despair at the prospect of the traveller escaping their clutches , interfered . 
All this was true but this trap , this ramshackle old vehicle , this thing , whatever it was , ran on its two wheels and could go to Arras . 
He examined this joy with a sort of wrath , and found it absurd . 
Why should he feel joy at turning back ? After all , he was taking this trip of his own free will . 
No one was forcing him to it . 
And assuredly nothing would happen except what he should choose . 
As he left Hesdin , he heard a voice shouting to him Stop ! Stop ! He halted the cart with a vigorous movement which contained a feverish and convulsive element resembling hope . 
It was the old woman's little boy . 
Monsieur , said the latter , it was I who got the cart for you . 
Well ? You have not given me anything . 
He who gave to all so readily thought this demand exorbitant and almost odious . 
Ah ! it's you , you scamp ? said he you shall have nothing . 
He whipped up his horse and set off at full speed . 
He had lost a great deal of time at Hesdin . 
He wanted to make it good . 
The little horse was courageous , and pulled for two but it was the month of February , there had been rain the roads were bad . 
And then , it was no longer the tilbury . 
The cart was very heavy , and in addition , there were many ascents . 
He took nearly four hours to go from Hesdin to Saint Pol four hours for five leagues . 
The inn keeper's wife came to the stable . 
Does not Monsieur wish to breakfast ? Come , that is true I even have a good appetite . 
He followed the woman , who had a rosy , cheerful face she led him to the public room where there were tables covered with waxed cloth . 
Make haste ! said he I must start again I am in a hurry . 
A big Flemish servant maid placed his knife and fork in all haste he looked at the girl with a sensation of comfort . 
That is what ailed me , he thought I had not breakfasted . 
His breakfast was served he seized the bread , took a mouthful , and then slowly replaced it on the table , and did not touch it again . 
A carter was eating at another table he said to this man Why is their bread so bitter here ? The carter was a German and did not understand him . 
He returned to the stable and remained near the horse . 
An hour later he had quitted Saint Pol and was directing his course towards Tinques , which is only five leagues from Arras . 
The poor beast was , in fact , going at a walk . 
Are you going to Arras ? added the road mender . 
If you go on at that rate you will not arrive very early . 
He stopped his horse , and asked the laborer How far is it from here to Arras ? Nearly seven good leagues . 
How is that ? the posting guide only says five leagues and a quarter . 
But it is night , and I shall lose my way . 
I must be there this evening . 
That is different but go to the inn all the same , and get an extra horse the stable boy will guide you through the cross roads . 
Still , he felt that he had lost time . 
In one of the jolts , the whiffle tree broke . 
He replied , Have you a bit of rope and a knife ? Yes , sir . 
He cut a branch from a tree and made a whiffle tree of it . 
This caused another loss of twenty minutes but they set out again at a gallop . 
The postilion whipped up the horses they had crossed the river and left Mont Saint Eloy behind them . 
The night grew more profound . 
CHAPTER VI SISTER SIMPLICE PUT TO THE PROOF But at that moment Fantine was joyous . 
Her eyes were hollow and staring . 
They seemed almost extinguished at intervals , then lighted up again and shone like stars . 
It seems as though , at the approach of a certain dark hour , the light of heaven fills those who are quitting the light of earth . 
Each time that Sister Simplice asked her how she felt , she replied invariably , Well . 
I should like to see M. Madeleine . 
Physical suffering had completed the work of moral suffering . 
M. Madeleine usually came to see the invalid at three o'clock . 
As exactness is kindness , he was exact . 
About half past two , Fantine began to be restless . 
In the course of twenty minutes , she asked the nun more than ten times , What time is it , sister ? Three o'clock struck . 
Then Fantine turned and looked at the door . 
No one entered the door did not open . 
She remained thus for a quarter of an hour , her eyes riveted on the door , motionless and apparently holding her breath . 
The sister dared not speak to her . 
The clock struck a quarter past three . 
Fantine fell back on her pillow . 
She said nothing , but began to plait the sheets once more . 
Half an hour passed , then an hour , no one came every time the clock struck , Fantine started up and looked towards the door , then fell back again . 
Her thought was clearly perceptible , but she uttered no name , she made no complaint , she blamed no one . 
But she coughed in a melancholy way . 
One would have said that something dark was descending upon her . 
She was livid and her lips were blue . 
She smiled now and then . 
Then the sister heard her say , very low and gently , He is wrong not to come to day , since I am going away to morrow . 
Sister Simplice herself was surprised at M. Madeleine's delay . 
In the meantime , Fantine was staring at the tester of her bed . 
She seemed to be endeavoring to recall something . 
All at once she began to sing in a voice as feeble as a breath . 
This is what Fantine was singing Lovely things we will buy As we stroll the faubourgs through . 
Roses are pink , corn flowers are blue , I love my love , corn flowers are blue . 
Haste to the city , buy linen , buy a needle , buy thread . 
Lovely things we will buy As we stroll the faubourgs through . 
Dear Holy Virgin , beside my stove I have set a cradle with ribbons decked . 
God may give me his loveliest star I prefer the child thou hast granted me . 
Madame , what shall I do with this linen fine ? Make of it clothes for thy new born babe . 
Roses are pink and corn flowers are blue , I love my love , and corn flowers are blue . 
Where ? In the stream . 
Make of it , soiling not , spoiling not , a petticoat fair with its bodice fine , which I will embroider and fill with flowers . 
Madame , the child is no longer here what is to be done ? Then make of it a winding sheet in which to bury me . 
Lovely things we will buy As we stroll the faubourgs through , Roses are pink , corn flowers are blue , I love my love , corn flowers are blue . 
She sang it in so sad a voice , and to so sweet an air , that it was enough to make any one , even a nun , weep . 
The sister , accustomed as she was to austerities , felt a tear spring to her eyes . 
Fantine did not seem to hear it . 
She no longer seemed to pay attention to anything about her . 
Sister Simplice sent a serving maid to inquire of the portress of the factory , whether the mayor had returned , and if he would not come to the infirmary soon . 
The girl returned in a few minutes . 
Fantine was still motionless and seemed absorbed in her own thoughts . 
That when he went away he had been very gentle , as usual , and that he had merely told the portress not to expect him that night . 
Answer me ! cried Fantine . 
The servant stammered The portress told me that he could not come to day . 
Be calm , my child , said the sister lie down again . 
You are whispering it to each other there . 
I want to know it . 
The servant maid hastened to say in the nun's ear , Say that he is busy with the city council . 
Sister Simplice blushed faintly , for it was a lie that the maid had proposed to her . 
Her flush did not last long the sister raised her calm , sad eyes to Fantine , and said , Monsieur le Maire has gone away . 
Fantine raised herself and crouched on her heels in the bed her eyes sparkled indescribable joy beamed from that melancholy face . 
Gone ! she cried he has gone to get Cosette . 
Then she raised her arms to heaven , and her white face became ineffable her lips moved she was praying in a low voice . 
My child , said the sister , try to rest now , and do not talk any more . 
Fantine took the sister's hand in her moist hands , and the latter was pained to feel that perspiration . 
He set out this morning for Paris in fact , he need not even go through Paris Montfermeil is a little to the left as you come thence . 
Mon Dieu ! how wrong it is not to see one's children for years ! One ought to reflect that life is not eternal . 
Well , resumed the nun , now that you are happy , mind me , and do not talk any more . 
And then , without stirring , without even moving her head , she began to stare all about her with wide open eyes and a joyous air , and she said nothing more . 
The sister drew the curtains together again , hoping that she would fall into a doze . 
She said to him , She will be allowed to sleep beside me in a little bed , will she not , sir ? The doctor thought that she was delirious . 
She added See ! there is just room . 
Give me your hand , said the doctor . 
She stretched out her arm , and exclaimed with a laugh Ah , hold ! in truth , you did not know it I am cured Cosette will arrive to morrow . 
The landlady of the hotel entered . 
Does Monsieur wish a bed ? Does Monsieur require supper ? He made a sign of the head in the negative . 
The stableman says that Monsieur's horse is extremely fatigued . 
Here he broke his silence . 
Will not the horse be in a condition to set out again to morrow morning ? Oh , Monsieur ! he must rest for two days at least . 
He inquired Is not the posting station located here ? Yes , sir . 
Monsieur , said the clerk , do not fail to be here ready to start at precisely one o'clock in the morning . 
This done , he left the hotel and began to wander about the town . 
He was not acquainted with Arras the streets were dark , and he walked on at random but he seemed bent upon not asking the way of the passers by . 
He crossed the little river Crinchon , and found himself in a labyrinth of narrow alleys where he lost his way . 
A citizen was passing along with a lantern . 
Monsieur , said he , where is the court house , if you please . 
You do not belong in town , sir ? replied the bourgeois , who was an oldish man well , follow me . 
Is it there that the Assizes are held ? he asked . 
Certainly , sir you see , the prefecture of to day was the bishop's palace before the Revolution . 
M. de Conzie , who was bishop in , built a grand hall there . 
It is in this grand hall that the court is held . 
On the way , the bourgeois said to him If Monsieur desires to witness a case , it is rather late . 
The sittings generally close at six o'clock . 
When they arrived on the grand square , however , the man pointed out to him four long windows all lighted up , in the front of a vast and gloomy building . 
Upon my word , sir , you are in luck you have arrived in season . 
Do you see those four windows ? That is the Court of Assizes . 
There is light there , so they are not through . 
The matter must have been greatly protracted , and they are holding an evening session . 
That is different , said the bourgeois . 
Stop , sir here is the door where the sentry stands . 
You have only to ascend the grand staircase . 
It is always a heart breaking thing to see these congregations of men robed in black , murmuring together in low voices , on the threshold of the halls of justice . 
It is rare that charity and pity are the outcome of these words . 
Condemnations pronounced in advance are more likely to be the result . 
All these groups seem to the passing and thoughtful observer so many sombre hives where buzzing spirits construct in concert all sorts of dark edifices . 
This spacious hall , illuminated by a single lamp , was the old hall of the episcopal palace , and served as the large hall of the palace of justice . 
A double leaved door , which was closed at that moment , separated it from the large apartment where the court was sitting . 
The obscurity was such that he did not fear to accost the first lawyer whom he met . 
What stage have they reached , sir ? he asked . 
It is finished , said the lawyer . 
Finished ! This word was repeated in such accents that the lawyer turned round . 
Excuse me sir perhaps you are a relative ? No I know no one here . 
Has judgment been pronounced ? Of course . 
To penal servitude ? For life . 
He continued , in a voice so weak that it was barely audible Then his identity was established ? What identity ? replied the lawyer . 
There was no identity to be established . 
The matter was very simple . 
The woman had murdered her child the infanticide was proved the jury threw out the question of premeditation , and she was condemned for life . 
So it was a woman ? said he . 
Of what are you speaking ? Nothing . 
But since it is all over , how comes it that the hall is still lighted ? For another case , which was begun about two hours ago . 
What other case ? Oh ! this one is a clear case also . 
It is about a sort of blackguard a man arrested for a second offence a convict who has been guilty of theft . 
I don't know his name exactly . 
There's a bandit's phiz for you ! I'd send him to the galleys on the strength of his face alone . 
Is there any way of getting into the court room , sir ? said he . 
I really think that there is not . 
There is a great crowd . 
However , the hearing has been suspended . 
Some people have gone out , and when the hearing is resumed , you might make an effort . 
Where is the entrance ? Through yonder large door . 
In the course of a few moments he had experienced , almost simultaneously , almost intermingled with each other , all possible emotions . 
The words of this indifferent spectator had , in turn , pierced his heart like needles of ice and like blades of fire . 
When he saw that nothing was settled , he breathed freely once more but he could not have told whether what he felt was pain or pleasure . 
He drew near to many groups and listened to what they were saying . 
The docket of the session was very heavy the president had appointed for the same day two short and simple cases . 
They had begun with the infanticide , and now they had reached the convict , the old offender , the return horse . 
This man had stolen apples , but that did not appear to be entirely proved what had been proved was , that he had already been in the galleys at Toulon . 
It was that which lent a bad aspect to his case . 
The man would probably be condemned the attorney general was very clever , and never missed his culprits he was a brilliant fellow who wrote verses . 
An usher stood at the door communicating with the hall of the Assizes . 
He inquired of this usher Will the door be opened soon , sir ? It will not be opened at all , replied the usher . 
Why ? Because the hall is full . 
What ! There is not room for one more ? Not another one . 
No one can enter now . 
So saying , the usher turned his back . 
He retired with bowed head , traversed the antechamber , and slowly descended the stairs , as though hesitating at every step . 
It is probable that he was holding counsel with himself . 
The violent conflict which had been going on within him since the preceding evening was not yet ended and every moment he encountered some new phase of it . 
On reaching the landing place , he leaned his back against the balusters and folded his arms . 
The usher took the paper , cast a glance upon it , and obeyed . 
CHAPTER VIII AN ENTRANCE BY FAVOR Although he did not suspect the fact , the mayor of M. sur M. enjoyed a sort of celebrity . 
He had even at need contrived to aid and multiply the industries of other arrondissements . 
Everywhere the name of M. Madeleine was pronounced with veneration . 
Arras and Douai envied the happy little town of M. sur M. its mayor . 
The unhappy man whose history we are relating had remained near the door of the hall , in the same place and the same attitude in which the usher had left him . 
At the same time , the usher handed him the paper . 
He unfolded it , and as he chanced to be near the light , he could read it . 
The President of the Court of Assizes presents his respects to M. Madeleine . 
He crushed the paper in his hand as though those words contained for him a strange and bitter aftertaste . 
A few minutes later he found himself alone in a sort of wainscoted cabinet of severe aspect , lighted by two wax candles , placed upon a table with a green cloth . 
These words were mingled in his thoughts with a vague memory of narrow corridors and dark staircases which he had recently traversed . 
The usher had left him alone . 
The supreme moment had arrived . 
He sought to collect his faculties , but could not . 
It is chiefly at the moment when there is the greatest need for attaching them to the painful realities of life , that the threads of thought snap within the brain . 
He was in the very place where the judges deliberated and condemned . 
He stared at the wall , then he looked at himself , wondering that it should be that chamber and that it should be he . 
He had eaten nothing for four and twenty hours he was worn out by the jolts of the cart , but he was not conscious of it . 
It seemed to him that he felt nothing . 
, and in which Pache forwarded to the commune the list of ministers and deputies held in arrest by them . 
He read it without paying any attention to it , and unconsciously . 
He was thinking of Fantine and Cosette . 
As he dreamed , he turned round , and his eyes fell upon the brass knob of the door which separated him from the Court of Assizes . 
He had almost forgotten that door . 
His glance , calm at first , paused there , remained fixed on that brass handle , then grew terrified , and little by little became impregnated with fear . 
Beads of perspiration burst forth among his hair and trickled down upon his temples . 
He breathed , he listened not a sound in front , not a sound behind him , and he fled as though pursued . 
When he had turned many angles in this corridor , he still listened . 
The same silence reigned , and there was the same darkness around him . 
He was out of breath he staggered he leaned against the wall . 
The stone was cold the perspiration lay ice cold on his brow he straightened himself up with a shiver . 
Then , there alone in the darkness , trembling with cold and with something else , too , perchance , he meditated . 
He had meditated all night long he had meditated all the day he heard within him but one voice , which said , Alas ! A quarter of an hour passed thus . 
At length he bowed his head , sighed with agony , dropped his arms , and retraced his steps . 
He walked slowly , and as though crushed . 
It seemed as though some one had overtaken him in his flight and was leading him back . 
He re entered the council chamber . 
The first thing he caught sight of was the knob of the door . 
This knob , which was round and of polished brass , shone like a terrible star for him . 
He gazed at it as a lamb might gaze into the eye of a tiger . 
He could not take his eyes from it . 
From time to time he advanced a step and approached the door . 
Had he listened , he would have heard the sound of the adjoining hall like a sort of confused murmur but he did not listen , and he did not hear . 
Suddenly , without himself knowing how it happened , he found himself near the door he grasped the knob convulsively the door opened . 
He was in the court room . 
CHAPTER IX A PLACE WHERE CONVICTIONS ARE IN PROCESS OF FORMATION He advanced a pace , closed the door mechanically behind him , and remained standing , contemplating what he saw . 
This man was the man . 
He did not seek him he saw him his eyes went thither naturally , as though they had known beforehand where that figure was . 
All this was yawning before him . 
Under his very eyes , unheard of vision , he had a sort of representation of the most horrible moment of his life , enacted by his spectre . 
M. Bamatabois was one of the jurors . 
At the moment of this entrance , the defendant's lawyer had just finished his plea . 
He has just committed a fresh theft it is a case of a second offence condemn him for the fresh deed later on he will be judged for the old crime . 
the pupils in the seminary , these tender levities errors imputed to newspapers , the imposture which distills its venom through the columns of those organs etc . 
The lawyer established the fact that the theft of the apples had not been circumstantially proved . 
His client , whom he , in his character of counsel , persisted in calling Champmathieu , had not been seen scaling that wall nor breaking that branch by any one . 
in his possession but he said that he had found it broken off and lying on the ground , and had picked it up . 
But what proof was there that that thief had been Champmathieu ? One thing only . 
His character as an ex convict . 
The prisoner , it was true , and his counsel , in good faith , was obliged to admit it , had adopted a bad system of defence . 
He obstinately denied everything , the theft and his character of convict . 
It was an error but ought not the paucity of this intelligence to be taken into consideration ? This man was visibly stupid . 
Long continued wretchedness in the galleys , long misery outside the galleys , had brutalized him , etc . 
He defended himself badly was that a reason for condemning him ? As for the affair with Little Gervais , the counsel need not discuss it it did not enter into the case . 
The district attorney answered the counsel for the defence . 
He was violent and florid , as district attorneys usually are . 
He congratulated the counsel for the defence on his loyalty , and skilfully took advantage of this loyalty . 
He reached the accused through all the concessions made by his lawyer . 
The advocate had seemed to admit that the prisoner was Jean Valjean . 
He took note of this . 
So this man was Jean Valjean . 
This point had been conceded to the accusation and could no longer be disputed . 
Having exhausted these considerations , he passed on to Jean Valjean himself . 
Who was this Jean Valjean ? Description of Jean Valjean a monster spewed forth , etc . 
The model for this sort of description is contained in the tale of Theramene , which is not useful to tragedy , but which every day renders great services to judicial eloquence . 
The audience and the jury shuddered . 
, vagabond , beggar , without means of existence , etc . 
, inured by his past life to culpable deeds , and but little reformed by his sojourn in the galleys , as was proved by the crime committed against Little Gervais , etc . 
What does he offer in opposition to this overwhelming unanimity ? His denial . 
What obduracy ! You will do justice , gentlemen of the jury , etc . 
While the district attorney was speaking , the accused listened to him open mouthed , with a sort of amazement in which some admiration was assuredly blended . 
He was evidently surprised that a man could talk like that . 
Two or three times the spectators who were nearest to him heard him say in a low voice , That is what comes of not having asked M. Baloup . 
He ended by making his reserves on the affair of Little Gervais and demanding a severe sentence . 
At that time , as the reader will remember , it was penal servitude for life . 
CHAPTER X THE SYSTEM OF DENIALS The moment for closing the debate had arrived . 
The President repeated the question . 
This time the man heard it . 
It was like an eruption . 
He said This is what I have to say . 
That I have been a wheelwright in Paris , and that it was with Monsieur Baloup . 
It is a hard trade . 
In winter one gets so cold that one beats one's arms together to warm one's self but the masters don't like it they say it wastes time . 
Handling iron when there is ice between the paving stones is hard work . 
That wears a man out quickly One is old while he is still quite young in that trade . 
At forty a man is done for . 
I was in a bad state . 
They paid me as little as possible . 
The masters took advantage of my age and then I had my daughter , who was a laundress at the river . 
She earned a little also . 
It sufficed for us two . 
She had trouble , also all day long up to her waist in a tub , in rain , in snow . 
When the wind cuts your face , when it freezes , it is all the same you must still wash . 
There are people who have not much linen , and wait until late if you do not wash , you lose your custom . 
The planks are badly joined , and water drops on you from everywhere you have your petticoats all damp above and below . 
She has also worked at the laundry of the Enfants Rouges , where the water comes through faucets . 
You are not in the tub there you wash at the faucet in front of you , and rinse in a basin behind you . 
As it is enclosed , you are not so cold but there is that hot steam , which is terrible , and which ruins your eyes . 
She came home at seven o'clock in the evening , and went to bed at once , she was so tired . 
We have not been very happy . 
She was a good girl , who did not go to the ball , and who was very peaceable . 
I remember one Shrove Tuesday when she went to bed at eight o'clock . 
There , I am telling the truth you have only to ask . 
Ah , yes ! how stupid I am ! Paris is a gulf . 
Who knows Father Champmathieu there ? But M. Baloup does , I tell you . 
Go see at M. Baloup's and after all , I don't know what is wanted of me . 
The man ceased speaking , and remained standing . 
He had said these things in a loud , rapid , hoarse voice , with a sort of irritated and savage ingenuousness . 
Once he paused to salute some one in the crowd . 
The sort of affirmations which he seemed to fling out before him at random came like hiccoughs , and to each he added the gesture of a wood cutter who is splitting wood . 
When he had finished , the audience burst into a laugh . 
He stared at the public , and , perceiving that they were laughing , and not understanding why , he began to laugh himself . 
The President , an attentive and benevolent man , raised his voice . 
He reminded the gentlemen of the jury that the sieur Baloup , formerly a master wheelwright , with whom the accused stated that he had served , had been summoned in vain . 
He had become bankrupt , and was not to be found . 
Then turning to the accused , he enjoined him to listen to what he was about to say , and added You are in a position where reflection is necessary . 
The gravest presumptions rest upon you , and may induce vital results . 
Prisoner , in your own interests , I summon you for the last time to explain yourself clearly on two points . 
He opened his mouth , turned towards the President , and said In the first place Then he stared at his cap , stared at the ceiling , and held his peace . 
Prisoner , said the district attorney , in a severe voice pay attention . 
You are not answering anything that has been asked of you . 
It is evident that you have been guilty of entering , and of the theft of ripe apples from the Pierron orchard . 
The gentlemen of the jury will form their own opinion . 
I am a man who does not have something to eat every day . 
I found a broken branch with apples on the ground I picked up the branch without knowing that it would get me into trouble . 
I have not stolen I picked up from the ground things that were lying there . 
You say , Jean Valjean , Jean Mathieu ! I don't know those persons they are villagers . 
I worked for M. Baloup , Boulevard de l'Hopital my name is Champmathieu . 
I think that my father and mother were people who strolled along the highways I know nothing different . 
When I was a child , they called me young fellow now they call me old fellow those are my baptismal names take that as you like . 
I have been in Auvergne I have been at Faverolles . 
That is true , Mr. President , responded the district attorney . 
In the absence of sieur Javert , I think it my duty to remind the gentlemen of the jury of what he said here a few hours ago . 
Javert is an estimable man , who does honor by his rigorous and strict probity to inferior but important functions . 
These are the terms of his deposition I do not even stand in need of circumstantial proofs and moral presumptions to give the lie to the prisoner's denial . 
The name of this man is not Champmathieu he is an ex convict named Jean Valjean , and is very vicious and much to be feared . 
It is only with extreme regret that he was released at the expiration of his term . 
He underwent nineteen years of penal servitude for theft . 
He made five or six attempts to escape . 
I repeat that I recognize him perfectly . 
This extremely precise statement appeared to produce a vivid impression on the public and on the jury . 
The district attorney concluded by insisting , that in default of Javert , the three witnesses Brevet , Chenildieu , and Cochepaille should be heard once more and solemnly interrogated . 
The President transmitted the order to an usher , and , a moment later , the door of the witnesses' room opened . 
The usher , accompanied by a gendarme ready to lend him armed assistance , introduced the convict Brevet . 
The audience was in suspense and all breasts heaved as though they had contained but one soul . 
The ex convict Brevet wore the black and gray waistcoat of the central prisons . 
Brevet was a person sixty years of age , who had a sort of business man's face , and the air of a rascal . 
The two sometimes go together . 
In prison , whither fresh misdeeds had led him , he had become something in the nature of a turnkey . 
He was a man of whom his superiors said , He tries to make himself of use . 
The chaplains bore good testimony as to his religious habits . 
It must not be forgotten that this passed under the Restoration . 
Brevet , said the President , you have undergone an ignominious sentence , and you cannot take an oath . 
It is to this sentiment that I appeal at this decisive hour . 
The instant is solemn there is still time to retract if you think you have been mistaken . 
Yes , Mr. President , I was the first to recognize him , and I stick to it that man is Jean Valjean , who entered at Toulon in , and left in . 
I left a year later . 
He has the air of a brute now but it must be because age has brutalized him he was sly at the galleys I recognize him positively . 
Take your seat , said the President . 
Chenildieu was brought in , a prisoner for life , as was indicated by his red cassock and his green cap . 
He was serving out his sentence at the galleys of Toulon , whence he had been brought for this case . 
The President addressed him in nearly the same words which he had used to Brevet . 
At the moment when he reminded him of his infamy which deprived him of the right to take an oath , Chenildieu raised his head and looked the crowd in the face . 
The President invited him to reflection , and asked him as he had asked Brevet , if he persisted in recognition of the prisoner . 
Pardieu , as if I didn't recognize him ! We were attached to the same chain for five years . 
So you are sulking , old fellow ? Go take your seat , said the President . 
The usher brought in Cochepaille . 
He had guarded the flocks among the mountains , and from a shepherd he had slipped into a brigand . 
Cochepaille was no less savage and seemed even more stupid than the prisoner . 
He was one of those wretched men whom nature has sketched out for wild beasts , and on whom society puts the finishing touches as convicts in the galleys . 
He is Jean Valjean , said Cochepaille . 
He was even called Jean the Screw , because he was so strong . 
Ushers , said the President , enforce silence ! I am going to sum up the arguments . 
The clerk's lamp illumined his countenance . 
They asked themselves whether he had indeed uttered that cry they could not believe that that tranquil man had been the one to give that terrible outcry . 
This indecision only lasted a few seconds . 
Do you not recognize me ? said he . 
All three remained speechless , and indicated by a sign of the head that they did not know him . 
Cochepaille , who was intimidated , made a military salute . 
He is not the man whom you are in search of it is I I am Jean Valjean . 
M. Madeleine did not allow the district attorney to finish he interrupted him in accents full of suavity and authority . 
I am the only one here who sees the matter clearly , and I am telling you the truth . 
God , who is on high , looks down on what I am doing at this moment , and that suffices . 
It seems that that is not to be done . 
In short , there are many things which I cannot tell . 
I will not narrate the story of my life to you you will hear it one of these days . 
I robbed Monseigneur the Bishop , it is true it is true that I robbed Little Gervais they were right in telling you that Jean Valjean was a very vicious wretch . 
Perhaps it was not altogether his fault . 
Before going to the galleys , I was a poor peasant , with very little intelligence , a sort of idiot the galleys wrought a change in me . 
I was stupid I became vicious I was a block of wood I became a firebrand . 
Later on , indulgence and kindness saved me , as severity had ruined me . 
But , pardon me , you cannot understand what I am saying . 
You will find at my house , among the ashes in the fireplace , the forty sou piece which I stole , seven years ago , from little Gervais . 
I have nothing farther to add take me . 
Good God ! the district attorney shakes his head you say , 'M . 
Madeleine has gone mad ! you do not believe me ! that is distressing . 
Do not , at least , condemn this man ! What ! these men do not recognize me ! I wish Javert were here he would recognize me . 
Nothing can reproduce the sombre and kindly melancholy of tone which accompanied these words . 
A gendarme held a light close to it there was the date . 
The unhappy man turned to the spectators and the judges with a smile which still rends the hearts of all who saw it whenever they think of it . 
It was a smile of triumph it was also a smile of despair . 
You see plainly , he said , that I am Jean Valjean . 
In that chamber there were no longer either judges , accusers , nor gendarmes there was nothing but staring eyes and sympathizing hearts . 
It was a striking circumstance that no question was put , that no authority intervened . 
The peculiarity of sublime spectacles is , that they capture all souls and turn witnesses into spectators . 
It was evident that they had Jean Valjean before their eyes . 
The details , the hesitations , little possible oppositions , were swallowed up in that vast and luminous fact . 
It was an impression which vanished speedily , but which was irresistible at the moment . 
I do not wish to disturb the court further , resumed Jean Valjean . 
I shall withdraw , since you do not arrest me . 
I have many things to do . 
The district attorney knows who I am he knows whither I am going he can have me arrested when he likes . 
He directed his steps towards the door . 
Not a voice was raised , not an arm extended to hinder him . 
At that moment there was about him that divine something which causes multitudes to stand aside and make way for a man . 
He traversed the crowd slowly . 
It was never known who opened the door , but it is certain that he found the door open when he reached it . 
On arriving there he turned round and said I am at your command , Mr. District Attorney . 
Nevertheless , I should have preferred not to have had this occur . 
He withdrew , and the door closed behind him as it had opened , for those who do certain sovereign things are always sure of being served by some one in the crowd . 
A COUNTER BLOW CHAPTER I IN WHAT MIRROR M. MADELEINE CONTEMPLATES HIS HAIR The day had begun to dawn . 
Fantine had passed a sleepless and feverish night , filled with happy visions at daybreak she fell asleep . 
Sister Simplice , who had been watching with her , availed herself of this slumber to go and prepare a new potion of chinchona . 
Suddenly she raised her head and uttered a faint shriek . 
M. Madeleine stood before her he had just entered silently . 
Is it you , Mr. Mayor ? she exclaimed . 
He replied in a low voice How is that poor woman ? Not so bad just now but we have been very uneasy . 
The sister dared not question the mayor but she perceived plainly from his air that he had not come from there . 
All that is good , said he you were right not to undeceive her . 
Yes , responded the sister but now , Mr. Mayor , she will see you and will not see her child . 
What shall we say to her ? He reflected for a moment . 
God will inspire us , said he . 
But we cannot tell a lie , murmured the sister , half aloud . 
It was broad daylight in the room . 
The light fell full on M. Madeleine's face . 
The sister chanced to raise her eyes to it . 
Good God , sir ! she exclaimed what has happened to you ? Your hair is perfectly white ! White ! said he . 
Sister Simplice had no mirror . 
She rummaged in a drawer , and pulled out the little glass which the doctor of the infirmary used to see whether a patient was dead and whether he no longer breathed . 
M. Madeleine took the mirror , looked at his hair , and said Well ! He uttered the word indifferently , and as though his mind were on something else . 
The sister felt chilled by something strange of which she caught a glimpse in all this . 
He inquired Can I see her ? Is not Monsieur le Maire going to have her child brought back to her ? said the sister , hardly venturing to put the question . 
Of course but it will take two or three days at least . 
We should not have to enact a lie . 
M. Madeleine seemed to reflect for a few moments then he said with his calm gravity No , sister , I must see her . 
I may , perhaps , be in haste . 
The nun did not appear to notice this word perhaps , which communicated an obscure and singular sense to the words of the mayor's speech . 
She replied , lowering her eyes and her voice respectfully In that case , she is asleep but Monsieur le Maire may enter . 
But this painful respiration hardly troubled a sort of ineffable serenity which overspread her countenance , and which transfigured her in her sleep . 
To see her thus , one would never have dreamed that she was an invalid whose life was almost despaired of . 
She resembled rather something on the point of soaring away than something on the point of dying . 
The branch trembles when a hand approaches it to pluck a flower , and seems to both withdraw and to offer itself at one and the same time . 
The human body has something of this tremor when the instant arrives in which the mysterious fingers of Death are about to pluck the soul . 
They were both still there in the same attitude she sleeping , he praying only now , after the lapse of two months , her hair was gray and his was white . 
The sister had not entered with him . 
He stood beside the bed , with his finger on his lips , as though there were some one in the chamber whom he must enjoin to silence . 
She continued I knew that you were there . 
I was asleep , but I saw you . 
I have seen you for a long , long time . 
I have been following you with my eyes all night long . 
You were in a glory , and you had around you all sorts of celestial forms . 
He raised his glance to the crucifix . 
But , she resumed , tell me where Cosette is . 
Why did not you place her on my bed against the moment of my waking ? He made some mechanical reply which he was never afterwards able to recall . 
Fortunately , the doctor had been warned , and he now made his appearance . 
He came to the aid of M. Madeleine . 
Calm yourself , my child , said the doctor your child is here . 
Fantine's eyes beamed and filled her whole face with light . 
She clasped her hands with an expression which contained all that is possible to prayer in the way of violence and tenderness . 
Oh ! she exclaimed , bring her to me ! Touching illusion of a mother ! Cosette was , for her , still the little child who is carried . 
Not yet , said the doctor , not just now . 
You still have some fever . 
The sight of your child would agitate you and do you harm . 
You must be cured first . 
So long as you are in this state I shall oppose your having your child . 
It is not enough to see her it is necessary that you should live for her . 
When you are reasonable , I will bring her to you myself . 
The poor mother bowed her head . 
I beg your pardon , doctor , I really beg your pardon . 
Formerly I should never have spoken as I have just done so many misfortunes have happened to me , that I sometimes do not know what I am saying . 
I understand you you fear the emotion . 
I will wait as long as you like , but I swear to you that it would not have harmed me to see my daughter . 
I have been seeing her I have not taken my eyes from her since yesterday evening . 
Do you know ? If she were brought to me now , I should talk to her very gently . 
Is it not quite natural that I should desire to see my daughter , who has been brought to me expressly from Montfermeil ? I am not angry . 
I know well that I am about to be happy . 
All night long I have seen white things , and persons who smiled at me . 
When Monsieur le Docteur pleases , he shall bring me Cosette . 
I have no longer any fever I am well . 
When it is seen that I am very calm , they will say , She must have her child . 
M. Madeleine was sitting on a chair beside the bed . 
But while she controlled herself she could not refrain from questioning M. Madeleine . 
Did you have a pleasant trip , Monsieur le Maire ? Oh ! how good you were to go and get her for me ! Only tell me how she is . 
Did she stand the journey well ? Alas ! she will not recognize me . 
She must have forgotten me by this time , poor darling ! Children have no memories . 
A child sees one thing to day and another thing to morrow , and thinks of nothing any longer . 
Now , it is all past . 
Tell me you are the master it could be so if you chose ! He took her hand . 
Cosette is beautiful , he said , Cosette is well . 
You shall see her soon but calm yourself you are talking with too much vivacity , and you are throwing your arms out from under the clothes , and that makes you cough . 
In fact , fits of coughing interrupted Fantine at nearly every word . 
Fantine did not murmur she feared that she had injured by her too passionate lamentations the confidence which she was desirous of inspiring , and she began to talk of indifferent things . 
Montfermeil is quite pretty , is it not ? People go there on pleasure parties in summer . 
Are the Thenardiers prosperous ? There are not many travellers in their parts . 
That inn of theirs is a sort of a cook shop . 
M. Madeleine was still holding her hand , and gazing at her with anxiety it was evident that he had come to tell her things before which his mind now hesitated . 
The doctor , having finished his visit , retired . 
Sister Simplice remained alone with them . 
There was a child playing in the yard the child of the portress or of some work woman . 
It was one of those accidents which are always occurring , and which seem to form a part of the mysterious stage setting of mournful scenes . 
The child a little girl was going and coming , running to warm herself , laughing , singing at the top of her voice . 
Alas ! in what are the plays of children not intermingled . 
It was this little girl whom Fantine heard singing . 
Oh ! she resumed , it is my Cosette ! I recognize her voice . 
The child retreated as it had come the voice died away . 
But the smiling background of her thoughts came to the front again . 
My daughter will play in the garden . 
She must know her letters by this time . 
I will make her spell . 
She will run over the grass after butterflies . 
Then she will take her first communion . 
Ah ! when will she take her first communion ? She began to reckon on her fingers . 
One , two , three , four she is seven years old . 
In five years she will have a white veil , and openwork stockings she will look like a little woman . 
O my good sister , you do not know how foolish I become when I think of my daughter's first communion ! She began to laugh . 
He had released Fantine's hand . 
He listened to her words as one listens to the sighing of the breeze , with his eyes on the ground , his mind absorbed in reflection which had no bottom . 
All at once she ceased speaking , and this caused him to raise his head mechanically . 
Good God ! he exclaimed what ails you , Fantine ? She made no reply she did not remove her eyes from the object which she seemed to see . 
She removed one hand from his arm , and with the other made him a sign to look behind him . 
He turned , and beheld Javert . 
CHAPTER III JAVERT SATISFIED This is what had taken place . 
The half hour after midnight had just struck when M. Madeleine quitted the Hall of Assizes in Arras . 
He regained his inn just in time to set out again by the mail wagon , in which he had engaged his place . 
The district attorney's persistence was visibly at variance with the sentiments of every one , of the public , of the court , and of the jury . 
Thence the lawyer had drawn some epiphonemas , not very fresh , unfortunately , upon judicial errors , etc . 
the President , in his summing up , had joined the counsel for the defence , and in a few minutes the jury had thrown Champmathieu out of the case . 
Nevertheless , the district attorney was bent on having a Jean Valjean and as he had no longer Champmathieu , he took Madeleine . 
Immediately after Champmathieu had been set at liberty , the district attorney shut himself up with the President . 
His first emotion having passed off , the President did not offer many objections . 
Justice must , after all , take its course . 
The order for his arrest was accordingly despatched . 
The district attorney forwarded it to M. sur M. by a special messenger , at full speed , and entrusted its execution to Police Inspector Javert . 
The reader knows that Javert had returned to M. sur M. immediately after having given his deposition . 
Javert was just getting out of bed when the messenger handed him the order of arrest and the command to produce the prisoner . 
The messenger himself was a very clever member of the police , who , in two words , informed Javert of what had taken place at Arras . 
He was cool , calm , grave , his gray hair was perfectly smooth upon his temples , and he had just mounted the stairs with his habitual deliberation . 
Any one who was thoroughly acquainted with him , and who had examined him attentively at the moment , would have shuddered . 
The buckle of his leather stock was under his left ear instead of at the nape of his neck . 
Javert was a complete character , who never had a wrinkle in his duty or in his uniform methodical with malefactors , rigid with the buttons of his coat . 
On arriving at Fantine's chamber , Javert turned the handle , pushed the door open with the gentleness of a sick nurse or a police spy , and entered . 
Properly speaking , he did not enter . 
He stood erect in the half open door , his hat on his head and his left hand thrust into his coat , which was buttoned up to the chin . 
In the bend of his elbow the leaden head of his enormous cane , which was hidden behind him , could be seen . 
Thus he remained for nearly a minute , without his presence being perceived . 
All at once Fantine raised her eyes , saw him , and made M. Madeleine turn round . 
The instant that Madeleine's glance encountered Javert's glance , Javert , without stirring , without moving from his post , without approaching him , became terrible . 
No human sentiment can be as terrible as joy . 
It was the visage of a demon who has just found his damned soul . 
The satisfaction of at last getting hold of Jean Valjean caused all that was in his soul to appear in his countenance . 
The depths having been stirred up , mounted to the surface . 
Javert's content shone forth in his sovereign attitude . 
The deformity of triumph overspread that narrow brow . 
All the demonstrations of horror which a satisfied face can afford were there . 
Javert was in heaven at that moment . 
There existed in his victory a remnant of defiance and of combat . 
Erect , haughty , brilliant , he flaunted abroad in open day the superhuman bestiality of a ferocious archangel . 
Javert , though frightful , had nothing ignoble about him . 
The honest , pitiless joy of a fanatic in the full flood of his atrocity preserves a certain lugubriously venerable radiance . 
Without himself suspecting the fact , Javert in his formidable happiness was to be pitied , as is every ignorant man who triumphs . 
Nothing could be so poignant and so terrible as this face , wherein was displayed all that may be designated as the evil of the good . 
CHAPTER IV AUTHORITY REASSERTS ITS RIGHTS Fantine had not seen Javert since the day on which the mayor had torn her from the man . 
Her ailing brain comprehended nothing , but the only thing which she did not doubt was that he had come to get her . 
He said to Fantine in the gentlest and calmest of voices Be at ease it is not for you that he is come . 
Then he addressed Javert , and said I know what you want . 
Javert replied Be quick about it ! There lay in the inflection of voice which accompanied these words something indescribably fierce and frenzied . 
Javert did not say , Be quick about it ! he said Bequiabouit . 
No orthography can do justice to the accent with which it was uttered it was no longer a human word it was a roar . 
He did not proceed according to his custom , he did not enter into the matter , he exhibited no warrant of arrest . 
This arrest was not a beginning , but an end . 
It was this glance which Fantine had felt penetrating to the very marrow of her bones two months previously . 
At Javert's exclamation , Fantine opened her eyes once more . 
No one was present excepting the nun and the mayor . 
To whom could that abject use of thou be addressed ? To her only . 
Then she beheld a most unprecedented thing , a thing so unprecedented that nothing equal to it had appeared to her even in the blackest deliriums of fever . 
She beheld Javert , the police spy , seize the mayor by the collar she saw the mayor bow his head . 
It seemed to her that the world was coming to an end . 
Javert had , in fact , grasped Jean Valjean by the collar . 
Monsieur le Maire ! shrieked Fantine . 
Javert burst out laughing with that frightful laugh which displayed all his gums . 
There is no longer any Monsieur le Maire here ! Jean Valjean made no attempt to disengage the hand which grasped the collar of his coat . 
He said Javert Javert interrupted him Call me Mr. Inspector . 
Monsieur , said Jean Valjean , I should like to say a word to you in private . 
Aloud ! Say it aloud ! replied Javert people are in the habit of talking aloud to me . 
Jean Valjean went on in a lower tone I have a request to make of you I tell you to speak loud . 
But you alone should hear it What difference does that make to me ? I shall not listen . 
I will pay whatever is necessary . 
You shall accompany me if you choose . 
You are making sport of me ! cried Javert . 
Her head struck the head board of the bed and fell forwards on her breast , with gaping mouth and staring , sightless eyes . 
Let's have an end of this ! shouted Javert , in a fury I am not here to listen to argument . 
Javert retreated towards the door . 
Jean Valjean , armed with his bar of iron , walked slowly up to Fantine's couch . 
When he arrived there he turned and said to Javert , in a voice that was barely audible I advise you not to disturb me at this moment . 
One thing is certain , and that is , that Javert trembled . 
He remained thus , mute , absorbed , evidently with no further thought of anything connected with this life . 
Upon his face and in his attitude there was nothing but inexpressible pity . 
After a few moments of this meditation he bent towards Fantine , and spoke to her in a low voice . 
Did the dead woman hear them ? There are some touching illusions which are , perhaps , sublime realities . 
That done , he closed her eyes . 
Fantine's face seemed strangely illuminated at that moment . 
Death , that signifies entrance into the great light . 
Fantine's hand was hanging over the side of the bed . 
Jean Valjean knelt down before that hand , lifted it gently , and kissed it . 
Then he rose , and turned to Javert . 
Now , said he , I am at your disposal . 
CHAPTER V A SUITABLE TOMB Javert deposited Jean Valjean in the city prison . 
In less than two hours all the good that he had done had been forgotten , and he was nothing but a convict from the galleys . 
It is just to add that the details of what had taken place at Arras were not yet known . 
All day long conversations like the following were to be heard in all quarters of the town You don't know ? He was a liberated convict ! Who ? The mayor . 
Bah ! M. Madeleine ? Yes . 
Really ? His name was not Madeleine at all he had a frightful name , Bejean , Bojean , Boujean . 
Ah ! Good God ! He has been arrested . 
Arrested ! In prison , in the city prison , while waiting to be transferred . 
Well ! I suspected as much . 
That man was too good , too perfect , too affected . 
He refused the cross he bestowed sous on all the little scamps he came across . 
I always thought there was some evil history back of all that . 
The drawing rooms particularly abounded in remarks of this nature . 
One old lady , a subscriber to the Drapeau Blanc , made the following remark , the depth of which it is impossible to fathom I am not sorry . 
The old portress who had served him was among the number . 
On the evening of that day the worthy old woman was sitting in her lodge , still in a thorough fright , and absorbed in sad reflections . 
The factory had been closed all day , the carriage gate was bolted , the street was deserted . 
There was no one in the house but the two nuns , Sister Perpetue and Sister Simplice , who were watching beside the body of Fantine . 
Then she sat down again on her chair , and became absorbed in thought once more . 
The poor , good old woman bad done all this without being conscious of it . 
The portress raised her eyes , and stood there with gaping mouth , and a shriek which she confined to her throat . 
She knew that hand , that arm , the sleeve of that coat . 
It was several seconds before she could speak she had a seizure , as she said herself , when she related the adventure afterwards . 
Good God , Monsieur le Maire , she cried at last , I thought you were She stopped the conclusion of her sentence would have been lacking in respect towards the beginning . 
Jean Valjean was still Monsieur le Maire to her . 
In prison , said he . 
I was there I broke a bar of one of the windows I let myself drop from the top of a roof , and here I am . 
I am going up to my room go and find Sister Simplice for me . 
She is with that poor woman , no doubt . 
The old woman obeyed in all haste . 
He gave her no orders he was quite sure that she would guard him better than he should guard himself . 
No one ever found out how he had managed to get into the courtyard without opening the big gates . 
This point was never explained . 
He ascended the staircase leading to his chamber . 
It was a useful precaution it will be recollected that his window could be seen from the street . 
He cast a glance about him , at his table , at his chair , at his bed which had not been disturbed for three days . 
No trace of the disorder of the night before last remained . 
From a cupboard he pulled out one of his old shirts , which he tore in pieces . 
In the strips of linen thus prepared he wrapped the two silver candlesticks . 
He betrayed neither haste nor agitation and while he was wrapping up the Bishop's candlesticks , he nibbled at a piece of black bread . 
It was probably the prison bread which he had carried with him in his flight . 
This was proved by the crumbs which were found on the floor of the room when the authorities made an examination later on . 
There came two taps at the door . 
Come in , said he . 
She was pale her eyes were red the candle which she carried trembled in her hand . 
The emotions of that day had turned the nun into a woman once more . 
She had wept , and she was trembling . 
Jean Valjean had just finished writing a few lines on a paper , which he handed to the nun , saying , Sister , you will give this to Monsieur le Cure . 
The paper was not folded . 
She cast a glance upon it . 
You can read it , said he . 
She read I beg Monsieur le Cure to keep an eye on all that I leave behind me . 
He will be so good as to pay out of it the expenses of my trial , and of the funeral of the woman who died yesterday . 
The rest is for the poor . 
The sister tried to speak , but she only managed to stammer a few inarticulate sounds . 
He had hardly finished when a loud noise became audible on the staircase . 
A man responded But there is a light in that room , nevertheless . 
The chamber was so arranged that the door in opening masked the corner of the wall on the right . 
Jean Valjean blew out the light and placed himself in this angle . 
Sister Simplice fell on her knees near the table . 
The whispers of many men and the protestations of the portress were audible in the corridor . 
The nun did not raise her eyes . 
The candle was on the chimney piece , and gave but very little light . 
Javert caught sight of the nun and halted in amazement . 
It will be remembered that the fundamental point in Javert , his element , the very air he breathed , was veneration for all authority . 
This was impregnable , and admitted of neither objection nor restriction . 
In his eyes , of course , the ecclesiastical authority was the chief of all he was religious , superficial and correct on this point as on all others . 
On perceiving the sister , his first movement was to retire . 
But there was also another duty which bound him and impelled him imperiously in the opposite direction . 
His second movement was to remain and to venture on at least one question . 
This was Sister Simplice , who had never told a lie in her life . 
Javert knew it , and held her in special veneration in consequence . 
Sister , said he , are you alone in this room ? A terrible moment ensued , during which the poor portress felt as though she should faint . 
The sister raised her eyes and answered Yes . 
She had lied twice in succession , one after the other , without hesitation , promptly , as a person does when sacrificing herself . 
Pardon me , said Javert , and he retired with a deep bow . 
An hour later , a man , marching amid trees and mists , was rapidly departing from M. sur M. in the direction of Paris . 
That man was Jean Valjean . 
It has been established by the testimony of two or three carters who met him , that he was carrying a bundle that he was dressed in a blouse . 
Where had he obtained that blouse ? No one ever found out . 
But an aged workman had died in the infirmary of the factory a few days before , leaving behind him nothing but his blouse . 
Perhaps that was the one . 
One last word about Fantine . 
We all have a mother , the earth . 
Fantine was given back to that mother . 
The cure thought that he was doing right , and perhaps he really was , in reserving as much money as possible from what Jean Valjean had left for the poor . 
Who was concerned , after all ? A convict and a woman of the town . 
That is why he had a very simple funeral for Fantine , and reduced it to that strictly necessary form known as the pauper's grave . 
So Fantine was buried in the free corner of the cemetery which belongs to anybody and everybody , and where the poor are lost . 
Fortunately , God knows where to find the soul again . 
Fantine was laid in the shade , among the first bones that came to hand she was subjected to the promiscuousness of ashes . 
She was thrown into the public grave . 
Her grave resembled her bed . 
The end of Volume I. Fantine VOLUME II . 
, on a beautiful May morning , a traveller , the person who is telling this story , was coming from Nivelles , and directing his course towards La Hulpe . 
He had passed Lillois and Bois Seigneur Isaac . 
In the west he perceived the slate roofed tower of Braine l'Alleud , which has the form of a reversed vase . 
A young girl was weeding in a field , where a huge yellow poster , probably of some outside spectacle , such as a parish festival , was fluttering in the wind . 
At one corner of the inn , beside a pool in which a flotilla of ducks was navigating , a badly paved path plunged into the bushes . 
The wayfarer struck into this . 
, flanked by two flat medallions . 
A severe facade rose above this door a wall , perpendicular to the facade , almost touched the door , and flanked it with an abrupt right angle . 
In the meadow before the door lay three harrows , through which , in disorder , grew all the flowers of May . 
The two decrepit leaves which barred it were ornamented with an old rusty knocker . 
The sun was charming the branches had that soft shivering of May , which seems to proceed rather from the nests than from the wind . 
A brave little bird , probably a lover , was carolling in a distracted manner in a large tree . 
At this moment the leaves of the door parted , and a peasant woman emerged . 
She saw the wayfarer , and perceived what he was looking at . 
It was a French cannon ball which made that , she said to him . 
And she added That which you see there , higher up in the door , near a nail , is the hole of a big iron bullet as large as an egg . 
The bullet did not pierce the wood . 
What is the name of this place ? inquired the wayfarer . 
Hougomont , said the peasant woman . 
The traveller straightened himself up . 
He walked on a few paces , and went off to look over the tops of the hedges . 
On the horizon through the trees , he perceived a sort of little elevation , and on this elevation something which at that distance resembled a lion . 
He was on the battle field of Waterloo . 
It was a chateau it is no longer anything but a farm . 
For the antiquary , Hougomont is Hugomons . 
This manor was built by Hugo , Sire of Somerel , the same who endowed the sixth chaplaincy of the Abbey of Villiers . 
The traveller pushed open the door , elbowed an ancient calash under the porch , and entered the courtyard . 
The first thing which struck him in this paddock was a door of the sixteenth century , which here simulates an arcade , everything else having fallen prostrate around it . 
A monumental aspect often has its birth in ruin . 
In a wall near the arcade opens another arched door , of the time of Henry IV . 
This corner of earth , could he but have seized it , would , perhaps , have given him the world likewise . 
Chickens are scattering its dust abroad with their beaks . 
A growl is audible it is a huge dog , who shows his teeth and replaces the English . 
The English behaved admirably there . 
Cooke's four companies of guards there held out for seven hours against the fury of an army . 
Hougomont viewed on the map , as a geometrical plan , comprising buildings and enclosures , presents a sort of irregular rectangle , one angle of which is nicked out . 
It is this angle which contains the southern door , guarded by this wall , which commands it only a gun's length away . 
Hougomont has two doors , the southern door , that of the chateau and the northern door , belonging to the farm . 
The farm buildings border the courtyard on the south . 
A bit of the north door , broken by the French , hangs suspended to the wall . 
It consists of four planks nailed to two cross beams , on which the scars of the attack are visible . 
It is a simple door for carts , such as exist in all farms , with the two large leaves made of rustic planks beyond lie the meadows . 
The dispute over this entrance was furious . 
For a long time , all sorts of imprints of bloody hands were visible on the door posts . 
It was there that Bauduin was killed . 
The storm of the combat still lingers in this courtyard its horror is visible there the confusion of the fray was petrified there it lives and it dies there it was only yesterday . 
The walls are in the death agony , the stones fall the breaches cry aloud the holes are wounds the drooping , quivering trees seem to be making an effort to flee . 
This courtyard was more built up in than it is to day . 
Buildings which have since been pulled down then formed redans and angles . 
The English barricaded themselves there the French made their way in , but could not stand their ground . 
Beside the chapel , one wing of the chateau , the only ruin now remaining of the manor of Hougomont , rises in a crumbling state , disembowelled , one might say . 
The chateau served for a dungeon , the chapel for a block house . 
There men exterminated each other . 
The staircase has two stories the English , besieged on the staircase , and massed on its upper steps , had cut off the lower steps . 
These consisted of large slabs of blue stone , which form a heap among the nettles . 
Half a score of steps still cling to the wall on the first is cut the figure of a trident . 
These inaccessible steps are solid in their niches . 
All the rest resembles a jaw which has been denuded of its teeth . 
There are two old trees there one is dead the other is wounded at its base , and is clothed with verdure in April . 
Since it has taken to growing through the staircase . 
A massacre took place in the chapel . 
The interior , which has recovered its calm , is singular . 
The mass has not been said there since the carnage . 
Nevertheless , the altar has been left there an altar of unpolished wood , placed against a background of roughhewn stone . 
Near the altar there is nailed up a wooden statue of Saint Anne , of the fifteenth century the head of the infant Jesus has been carried off by a large ball . 
The French , who were masters of the chapel for a moment , and were then dislodged , set fire to it . 
The flames filled this building it was a perfect furnace the door was burned , the floor was burned , the wooden Christ was not burned . 
The infant Jesus , decapitated , was less fortunate than the Christ . 
The walls are covered with inscriptions . 
Near the feet of Christ this name is to be read Henquinez . 
Then these others Conde de Rio Maior Marques y Marquesa de Almagro . 
There are French names with exclamation points , a sign of wrath . 
The wall was freshly whitewashed in . 
The nations insulted each other there . 
It was at the door of this chapel that the corpse was picked up which held an axe in its hand this corpse was Sub Lieutenant Legros . 
On emerging from the chapel , a well is visible on the left . 
There are two in this courtyard . 
One inquires , Why is there no bucket and pulley to this ? It is because water is no longer drawn there . 
Why is water not drawn there ? Because it is full of skeletons . 
The last person who drew water from the well was named Guillaume van Kylsom . 
He was a peasant who lived at Hougomont , and was gardener there . 
On the th of June , , his family fled and concealed themselves in the woods . 
The forest surrounding the Abbey of Villiers sheltered these unfortunate people who had been scattered abroad , for many days and nights . 
There are at this day certain traces recognizable , such as old boles of burned trees , which mark the site of these poor bivouacs trembling in the depths of the thickets . 
Guillaume van Kylsom remained at Hougomont , to guard the chateau , and concealed himself in the cellar . 
The English discovered him there . 
They tore him from his hiding place , and the combatants forced this frightened man to serve them , by administering blows with the flats of their swords . 
They were thirsty this Guillaume brought them water . 
It was from this well that he drew it . 
Many drank there their last draught . 
This well where drank so many of the dead was destined to die itself . 
After the engagement , they were in haste to bury the dead bodies . 
Death has a fashion of harassing victory , and she causes the pest to follow glory . 
The typhus is a concomitant of triumph . 
This well was deep , and it was turned into a sepulchre . 
Three hundred dead bodies were cast into it . 
With too much haste perhaps . 
Were they all dead ? Legend says they were not . 
It seems that on the night succeeding the interment , feeble voices were heard calling from the well . 
This well is isolated in the middle of the courtyard . 
Three walls , part stone , part brick , and simulating a small , square tower , and folded like the leaves of a screen , surround it on all sides . 
The fourth side is open . 
It is there that the water was drawn . 
The wall at the bottom has a sort of shapeless loophole , possibly the hole made by a shell . 
This little tower had a platform , of which only the beams remain . 
The iron supports of the well on the right form a cross . 
On leaning over , the eye is lost in a deep cylinder of brick which is filled with a heaped up mass of shadows . 
The base of the walls all about the well is concealed in a growth of nettles . 
This well has not in front of it that large blue slab which forms the table for all wells in Belgium . 
The slab has here been replaced by a cross beam , against which lean five or six shapeless fragments of knotty and petrified wood which resemble huge bones . 
There is no longer either pail , chain , or pulley but there is still the stone basin which served the overflow . 
The rain water collects there , and from time to time a bird of the neighboring forests comes thither to drink , and then flies away . 
One house in this ruin , the farmhouse , is still inhabited . 
The door of this house opens on the courtyard . 
Upon this door , beside a pretty Gothic lock plate , there is an iron handle with trefoils placed slanting . 
At the moment when the Hanoverian lieutenant , Wilda , grasped this handle in order to take refuge in the farm , a French sapper hewed off his hand with an axe . 
The family who occupy the house had for their grandfather Guillaume van Kylsom , the old gardener , dead long since . 
A woman with gray hair said to us I was there . 
I was three years old . 
My sister , who was older , was terrified and wept . 
They carried us off to the woods . 
I went there in my mother's arms . 
We glued our ears to the earth to hear . 
I imitated the cannon , and went boum ! boum ! A door opening from the courtyard on the left led into the orchard , so we were told . 
It is in three parts one might almost say , in three acts . 
The first part is a garden , the second is an orchard , the third is a wood . 
The wall on the right is of brick , the wall at the bottom is of stone . 
One enters the garden first . 
It was a seignorial garden in the first French style which preceded Le Notre to day it is ruins and briars . 
The pilasters are surmounted by globes which resemble cannon balls of stone . 
Forty three balusters can still be counted on their sockets the rest lie prostrate in the grass . 
Almost all bear scratches of bullets . 
One broken baluster is placed on the pediment like a fractured leg . 
The Hanoverians lined this balustrade and fired from above . 
The infantry men , replying from below , six against two hundred , intrepid and with no shelter save the currant bushes , took a quarter of an hour to die . 
One mounts a few steps and passes from the garden into the orchard , properly speaking . 
There , within the limits of those few square fathoms , fifteen hundred men fell in less than an hour . 
The wall seems ready to renew the combat . 
Thirty eight loopholes , pierced by the English at irregular heights , are there still . 
In front of the sixth are placed two English tombs of granite . 
There are loopholes only in the south wall , as the principal attack came from that quarter . 
Nevertheless , the orchard was taken . 
As they had no ladders , the French scaled it with their nails . 
They fought hand to hand amid the trees . 
All this grass has been soaked in blood . 
A battalion of Nassau , seven hundred strong , was overwhelmed there . 
The outside of the wall , against which Kellermann's two batteries were trained , is gnawed by grape shot . 
This orchard is sentient , like others , in the month of May . 
In the middle of the grass one observes an uprooted tree bole which lies there all verdant . 
Major Blackmann leaned against it to die . 
Beneath a great tree in the neighborhood fell the German general , Duplat , descended from a French family which fled on the revocation of the Edict of Nantes . 
An aged and falling apple tree leans far over to one side , its wound dressed with a bandage of straw and of clayey loam . 
Nearly all the apple trees are falling with age . 
There is not one which has not had its bullet or its biscayan . 
The skeletons of dead trees abound in this orchard . 
Crows fly through their branches , and at the end of it is a wood full of violets . 
A bullet as large as an egg . 
If it had not rained in the night between the th and the th of June , , the fate of Europe would have been different . 
A few drops of water , more or less , decided the downfall of Napoleon . 
The battle of Waterloo could not be begun until half past eleven o'clock , and that gave Blucher time to come up . 
Why ? Because the ground was wet . 
The artillery had to wait until it became a little firmer before they could manoeuvre . 
Napoleon was an artillery officer , and felt the effects of this . 
The foundation of this wonderful captain was the man who , in the report to the Directory on Aboukir , said Such a one of our balls killed six men . 
All his plans of battle were arranged for projectiles . 
The key to his victory was to make the artillery converge on one point . 
He treated the strategy of the hostile general like a citadel , and made a breach in it . 
He overwhelmed the weak point with grape shot he joined and dissolved battles with cannon . 
There was something of the sharpshooter in his genius . 
A redoubtable method , and one which , united with genius , rendered this gloomy athlete of the pugilism of war invincible for the space of fifteen years . 
On the th of June , , he relied all the more on his artillery , because he had numbers on his side . 
Wellington had only one hundred and fifty nine mouths of fire Napoleon had two hundred and forty . 
Suppose the soil dry , and the artillery capable of moving , the action would have begun at six o'clock in the morning . 
The battle would have been won and ended at two o'clock , three hours before the change of fortune in favor of the Prussians . 
His plan of battle was , by the confession of all , a masterpiece . 
All this was contained in that battle , according to Napoleon . 
Walter Scott , Lamartine , Vaulabelle , Charras , Quinet , Thiers . 
At the centre of this chord is the precise point where the final word of the battle was pronounced . 
It was there that the lion has been placed , the involuntary symbol of the supreme heroism of the Imperial Guard . 
The triangle included in the top of the A , between the two limbs and the tie , is the plateau of Mont Saint Jean . 
The dispute over this plateau constituted the whole battle . 
The wings of the two armies extended to the right and left of the two roads to Genappe and Nivelles d'Erlon facing Picton , Reille facing Hill . 
Behind the tip of the A , behind the plateau of Mont Saint Jean , is the forest of Soignes . 
Two hostile troops on a field of battle are two wrestlers . 
It is a question of seizing the opponent round the waist . 
The one seeks to trip up the other . 
The two generals had attentively studied the plain of Mont Saint Jean , now called the plain of Waterloo . 
In the preceding year , Wellington , with the sagacity of foresight , had examined it as the possible seat of a great battle . 
Upon this spot , and for this duel , on the th of June , Wellington had the good post , Napoleon the bad post . 
The English army was stationed above , the French army below . 
It is almost superfluous here to sketch the appearance of Napoleon on horseback , glass in hand , upon the heights of Rossomme , at daybreak , on June , . 
All the world has seen him before we can show him . 
Hence arises a truer measure in the definitive judgments of nations . 
Babylon violated lessens Alexander , Rome enchained lessens Caesar , Jerusalem murdered lessens Titus , tyranny follows the tyrant . 
It is a misfortune for a man to leave behind him the night which bears his form . 
In order to do that it was necessary that the sun should come out and dry the soil . 
But the sun did not make its appearance . 
It was no longer the rendezvous of Austerlitz . 
When the first cannon was fired , the English general , Colville , looked at his watch , and noted that it was thirty five minutes past eleven . 
The action was begun furiously , with more fury , perhaps , than the Emperor would have wished , by the left wing of the French resting on Hougomont . 
The attack on Hougomont was something of a feint the plan was to draw Wellington thither , and to make him swerve to the left . 
With the exception of a few incidents this attack succeeded Papelotte was taken La Haie Sainte was carried . 
A detail to be noted . 
There was in the English infantry , particularly in Kempt's brigade , a great many raw recruits . 
These recruits displayed some of the French ingenuity and fury . 
This novice of an infantry had dash . 
After the taking of La Haie Sainte the battle wavered . 
A certain amount of tempest is always mingled with a battle . 
Quid obscurum , quid divinum . 
Each historian traces , to some extent , the particular feature which pleases him amid this pellmell . 
Whatever may be the combinations of the generals , the shock of armed masses has an incalculable ebb . 
During the action the plans of the two leaders enter into each other and become mutually thrown out of shape . 
It becomes necessary to pour out more soldiers than one would like a series of expenditures which are the unforeseen . 
Where the infantry stood the artillery arrives , the cavalry rushes in where the artillery was , the battalions are like smoke . 
There was something there seek it . 
What is a fray ? an oscillation ? The immobility of a mathematical plan expresses a minute , not a day . 
In order to depict a battle , there is required one of those powerful painters who have chaos in their brushes . 
Rembrandt is better than Vandermeulen Vandermeulen , exact at noon , lies at three o'clock . 
Geometry is deceptive the hurricane alone is trustworthy . 
That is what confers on Folard the right to contradict Polybius . 
The historian has , in this case , the evident right to sum up the whole . 
This , which is true of all great armed encounters , is particularly applicable to Waterloo . 
Nevertheless , at a certain moment in the afternoon the battle came to a point . 
CHAPTER VI FOUR O'CLOCK IN THE AFTERNOON Towards four o'clock the condition of the English army was serious . 
The Prince of Orange was in command of the centre , Hill of the right wing , Picton of the left wing . 
The battle had , for Wellington , two bases of action , Hougomont and La Haie Sainte Hougomont still held out , but was on fire La Haie Sainte was taken . 
Of the German battalion which defended it , only forty two men survived all the officers , except five , were either dead or captured . 
Three thousand combatants had been massacred in that barn . 
A sergeant of the English Guards , the foremost boxer in England , reputed invulnerable by his companions , had been killed there by a little French drummer boy . 
Baring had been dislodged , Alten put to the sword . 
Many flags had been lost , one from Alten's division , and one from the battalion of Lunenburg , carried by a prince of the house of Deux Ponts . 
The Scotch Grays no longer existed Ponsonby's great dragoons had been hacked to pieces . 
Ponsonby had fallen , riddled by seven lance thrusts . 
Two divisions , the fifth and the sixth , had been annihilated . 
Hougomont injured , La Haie Sainte taken , there now existed but one rallying point , the centre . 
That point still held firm . 
He summoned thither Hill , who was at Merle Braine he summoned Chasse , who was at Braine l'Alleud . 
The centre of the English army , rather concave , very dense , and very compact , was strongly posted . 
It occupied the plateau of Mont Saint Jean , having behind it the village , and in front of it the slope , which was tolerably steep then . 
There artillery was ambushed in the brushwood . 
Thus assured and buttressed , the centre of the Anglo Dutch army was well posted . 
The peril of this position lay in the forest of Soignes , then adjoining the field of battle , and intersected by the ponds of Groenendael and Boitsfort . 
An army could not retreat thither without dissolving the regiments would have broken up immediately there . 
The artillery would have been lost among the morasses . 
The retreat , according to many a man versed in the art , though it is disputed by others , would have been a disorganized flight . 
To this centre , Wellington added one of Chasse's brigades taken from the right wing , and one of Wincke's brigades taken from the left wing , plus Clinton's division . 
This placed twenty six battalions under his hand . 
The right wing , as Charras says , was thrown back on the centre . 
An enormous battery was masked by sacks of earth at the spot where there now stands what is called the Museum of Waterloo . 
Besides this , Wellington had , behind a rise in the ground , Somerset's Dragoon Guards , fourteen hundred horse strong . 
It was the remaining half of the justly celebrated English cavalry . 
Ponsonby destroyed , Somerset remained . 
This work was not finished there had been no time to make a palisade for it . 
The bullets rained about him . 
His aide de camp , Gordon , fell at his side . 
To Clinton he said laconically , To hold this spot to the last man . 
The day was evidently turning out ill . 
The beginning of retreat ! cried Napoleon . 
CHAPTER VII NAPOLEON IN A GOOD HUMOR The Emperor , though ill and discommoded on horseback by a local trouble , had never been in a better humor than on that day . 
His impenetrability had been smiling ever since the morning . 
On the th of June , that profound soul masked by marble beamed blindly . 
The man who had been gloomy at Austerlitz was gay at Waterloo . 
The greatest favorites of destiny make mistakes . 
Our joys are composed of shadow . 
The supreme smile is God's alone . 
Ridet Caesar , Pompeius flebit , said the legionaries of the Fulminatrix Legion . 
Pompey was not destined to weep on that occasion , but it is certain that Caesar laughed . 
They were no longer in accord . 
He took not a moment for sleep every instant of that night was marked by a joy for him . 
He traversed the line of the principal outposts , halting here and there to talk to the sentinels . 
He said It is the rear guard of the English getting under way for the purpose of decamping . 
I will take prisoners the six thousand English who have just arrived at Ostend . 
That little Englishman needs a lesson , said Napoleon . 
The rain redoubled in violence the thunder rolled while the Emperor was speaking . 
At half past three o'clock in the morning , he lost one illusion officers who had been despatched to reconnoitre announced to him that the enemy was not making any movement . 
Nothing was stirring not a bivouac fire had been extinguished the English army was asleep . 
The silence on earth was profound the only noise was in the heavens . 
At five o'clock , two Belgian deserters reported to him that they had just quitted their regiment , and that the English army was ready for battle . 
So much the better ! exclaimed Napoleon . 
I prefer to overthrow them rather than to drive them back . 
This did not prevent Napoleon from exclaiming cheerfully to Ney , We have ninety chances out of a hundred . 
At eight o'clock the Emperor's breakfast was brought to him . 
He invited many generals to it . 
The Emperor jested with Ney , who said , Wellington will not be so simple as to wait for Your Majesty . 
That was his way , however . 
He was fond of jesting , says Fleury de Chaboulon . 
A merry humor was at the foundation of his character , says Gourgaud . 
He abounded in pleasantries , which were more peculiar than witty , says Benjamin Constant . 
These gayeties of a giant are worthy of insistence . 
It was he who called his grenadiers his grumblers he pinched their ears he pulled their mustaches . 
The Emperor did nothing but play pranks on us , is the remark of one of them . 
A man who laughs like that is on familiar terms with events . 
Napoleon indulged in many fits of this laughter during the breakfast at Waterloo . 
Around this knoll the balls rebounded from the pavements of the road , up to Napoleon himself . 
As at Brienne , he had over his head the shriek of the bullets and of the heavy artillery . 
Mouldy cannon balls , old sword blades , and shapeless projectiles , eaten up with rust , were picked up at the spot where his horse' feet stood . 
A few years ago , a shell of sixty pounds , still charged , and with its fuse broken off level with the bomb , was unearthed . 
Every one is aware that the variously inclined undulations of the plains , where the engagement between Napoleon and Wellington took place , are no longer what they were on June , . 
It has been disfigured for the sake of glorifying it . 
There is no French tomb . 
The whole of that plain is a sepulchre for France . 
On the day of battle , particularly on the side of La Haie Sainte , it was abrupt and difficult of approach . 
The slope there is so steep that the English cannon could not see the farm , situated in the bottom of the valley , which was the centre of the combat . 
Along the crest of the plateau ran a sort of trench whose presence it was impossible for the distant observer to divine . 
What was this trench ? Let us explain . 
Braine l'Alleud is a Belgian village Ohain is another . 
Its two slopes have been appropriated for the monumental hillock . 
This is the inscription D. O. M. CY A ETE ECRASE PAR MALHEUR SOUS UN CHARIOT , MONSIEUR BERNARD DE BRYE MARCHAND A BRUXELLE LE Illegible FEVRIER . 
CHAPTER VIII THE EMPEROR PUTS A QUESTION TO THE GUIDE LACOSTE So , on the morning of Waterloo , Napoleon was content . 
He was right the plan of battle conceived by him was , as we have seen , really admirable . 
Composed half of light and half of shadow , Napoleon thought himself protected in good and tolerated in evil . 
He had , or thought that he had , a connivance , one might almost say a complicity , of events in his favor , which was equivalent to the invulnerability of antiquity . 
Nevertheless , when one has Beresina , Leipzig , and Fontainebleau behind one , it seems as though one might distrust Waterloo . 
A mysterious frown becomes perceptible in the depths of the heavens . 
At the moment when Wellington retreated , Napoleon shuddered . 
He suddenly beheld the table land of Mont Saint Jean cleared , and the van of the English army disappear . 
It was rallying , but hiding itself . 
The Emperor half rose in his stirrups . 
The lightning of victory flashed from his eyes . 
Wellington , driven into a corner at the forest of Soignes and destroyed that was the definitive conquest of England by France it was Crecy , Poitiers , Malplaquet , and Ramillies avenged . 
The man of Marengo was wiping out Agincourt . 
So the Emperor , meditating on this terrible turn of fortune , swept his glass for the last time over all the points of the field of battle . 
His guard , standing behind him with grounded arms , watched him from below with a sort of religion . 
He pondered he examined the slopes , noted the declivities , scrutinized the clumps of trees , the square of rye , the path he seemed to be counting each bush . 
The guide made a negative sign with his head , which was probably perfidious . 
The Emperor straightened himself up and fell to thinking . 
All that remained to do was to complete this retreat by crushing him . 
Napoleon turning round abruptly , despatched an express at full speed to Paris to announce that the battle was won . 
Napoleon was one of those geniuses from whom thunder darts . 
He had just found his clap of thunder . 
He gave orders to Milhaud's cuirassiers to carry the table land of Mont Saint Jean . 
CHAPTER IX THE UNEXPECTED There were three thousand five hundred of them . 
They formed a front a quarter of a league in extent . 
They were giant men , on colossal horses . 
They wore casques without horse tails , and cuirasses of beaten iron , with horse pistols in their holsters , and long sabre swords . 
Aide de camp Bernard carried them the Emperor's orders . 
Ney drew his sword and placed himself at their head . 
The enormous squadrons were set in motion . 
Then a formidable spectacle was seen . 
They ascended , grave , threatening , imperturbable in the intervals between the musketry and the artillery , their colossal trampling was audible . 
Being two divisions , there were two columns of them Wathier's division held the right , Delort's division was on the left . 
It seemed as though two immense adders of steel were to be seen crawling towards the crest of the table land . 
It traversed the battle like a prodigy . 
Nothing like it had been seen since the taking of the great redoubt of the Muskowa by the heavy cavalry Murat was lacking here , but Ney was again present . 
It seemed as though that mass had become a monster and had but one soul . 
Each column undulated and swelled like the ring of a polyp . 
They could be seen through a vast cloud of smoke which was rent here and there . 
These narrations seemed to belong to another age . 
Odd numerical coincidence , twenty six battalions rode to meet twenty six battalions . 
They did not see the cuirassiers , and the cuirassiers did not see them . 
They listened to the rise of this flood of men . 
All at once , a tragic incident on the English left , on our right , the head of the column of cuirassiers reared up with a frightful clamor . 
It was the hollow road of Ohain . 
It was a terrible moment . 
Almost a third of Dubois's brigade fell into that abyss . 
This began the loss of the battle . 
A local tradition , which evidently exaggerates matters , says that two thousand horses and fifteen hundred men were buried in the hollow road of Ohain . 
This figure probably comprises all the other corpses which were flung into this ravine the day after the combat . 
Let us note in passing that it was Dubois's sorely tried brigade which , an hour previously , making a charge to one side , had captured the flag of the Lunenburg battalion . 
The guide had answered No. We might almost affirm that Napoleon's catastrophe originated in that sign of a peasant's head . 
Other fatalities were destined to arise . 
Was it possible that Napoleon should have won that battle ? We answer No. Why ? Because of Wellington ? Because of Blucher ? No. Because of God . 
Bonaparte victor at Waterloo that does not come within the law of the nineteenth century . 
Another series of facts was in preparation , in which there was no longer any room for Napoleon . 
The ill will of events had declared itself long before . 
It was time that this vast man should fall . 
The excessive weight of this man in human destiny disturbed the balance . 
This individual alone counted for more than a universal group . 
These plethoras of all human vitality concentrated in a single head the world mounting to the brain of one man , this would be mortal to civilization were it to last . 
The moment had arrived for the incorruptible and supreme equity to alter its plan . 
Probably the principles and the elements , on which the regular gravitations of the moral , as of the material , world depend , had complained . 
Smoking blood , over filled cemeteries , mothers in tears , these are formidable pleaders . 
When the earth is suffering from too heavy a burden , there are mysterious groanings of the shades , to which the abyss lends an ear . 
Napoleon had been denounced in the infinite and his fall had been decided on . 
Waterloo is not a battle it is a change of front on the part of the Universe . 
CHAPTER X THE PLATEAU OF MONT SAINT JEAN The battery was unmasked at the same moment with the ravine . 
Sixty cannons and the thirteen squares darted lightning point blank on the cuirassiers . 
The intrepid General Delort made the military salute to the English battery . 
The whole of the flying artillery of the English had re entered the squares at a gallop . 
The cuirassiers had not had even the time for a halt . 
The disaster of the hollow road had decimated , but not discouraged them . 
They belonged to that class of men who , when diminished in number , increase in courage . 
Wathier's column alone had suffered in the disaster Delort's column , which Ney had deflected to the left , as though he had a presentiment of an ambush , had arrived whole . 
The cuirassiers hurled themselves on the English squares . 
At full speed , with bridles loose , swords in their teeth pistols in fist , such was the attack . 
There are moments in battles in which the soul hardens the man until the soldier is changed into a statue , and when all this flesh turns into granite . 
The English battalions , desperately assaulted , did not stir . 
All the faces of the English squares were attacked at once . 
A frenzied whirl enveloped them . 
That cold infantry remained impassive . 
The cuirassiers replied by crushing them . 
Their great horses reared , strode across the ranks , leaped over the bayonets and fell , gigantic , in the midst of these four living wells . 
The cannon balls ploughed furrows in these cuirassiers the cuirassiers made breaches in the squares . 
Files of men disappeared , ground to dust under the horses . 
The bayonets plunged into the bellies of these centaurs hence a hideousness of wounds which has probably never been seen anywhere else . 
The squares , wasted by this mad cavalry , closed up their ranks without flinching . 
Inexhaustible in the matter of grape shot , they created explosions in their assailants' midst . 
The form of this combat was monstrous . 
These squares were no longer battalions , they were craters those cuirassiers were no longer cavalry , they were a tempest . 
Each square was a volcano attacked by a cloud lava contended with lightning . 
The square on the extreme right , the most exposed of all , being in the air , was almost annihilated at the very first shock . 
lt was formed of the th regiment of Highlanders . 
These Scotchmen died thinking of Ben Lothian , as did the Greeks recalling Argos . 
The sword of a cuirassier , which hewed down the bagpipes and the arm which bore it , put an end to the song by killing the singer . 
Nevertheless , some Hanoverian battalions yielded . 
Wellington perceived it , and thought of his cavalry . 
Had Napoleon at that same moment thought of his infantry , he would have won the battle . 
This forgetfulness was his great and fatal mistake . 
All at once , the cuirassiers , who had been the assailants , found themselves assailed . 
The English cavalry was at their back . 
Before them two squares , behind them Somerset Somerset meant fourteen hundred dragoons of the guard . 
What mattered it to them ? They were a whirlwind . 
Their valor was something indescribable . 
In addition to this , they had behind them the battery , which was still thundering . 
It was necessary that it should be so , or they could never have been wounded in the back . 
One of their cuirasses , pierced on the shoulder by a ball from a biscayan , is in the collection of the Waterloo Museum . 
For such Frenchmen nothing less than such Englishmen was needed . 
It was no longer a hand to hand conflict it was a shadow , a fury , a dizzy transport of souls and courage , a hurricane of lightning swords . 
In an instant the fourteen hundred dragoon guards numbered only eight hundred . 
Fuller , their lieutenant colonel , fell dead . 
Ney rushed up with the lancers and Lefebvre Desnouettes's light horse . 
The plateau of Mont Saint Jean was captured , recaptured , captured again . 
The cuirassiers quitted the cavalry to return to the infantry or , to put it more exactly , the whole of that formidable rout collared each other without releasing the other . 
The squares still held firm . 
There were a dozen assaults . 
Ney had four horses killed under him . 
Half the cuirassiers remained on the plateau . 
This conflict lasted two hours . 
The English army was profoundly shaken . 
There is no doubt that , had they not been enfeebled in their first shock by the disaster of the hollow road the cuirassiers would have overwhelmed the centre and decided the victory . 
This extraordinary cavalry petrified Clinton , who had seen Talavera and Badajoz . 
Wellington , three quarters vanquished , admired heroically . 
Wellington's situation had grown worse . 
This strange battle was like a duel between two raging , wounded men , each of whom , still fighting and still resisting , is expending all his blood . 
Which of the two will be the first to fall ? The conflict on the plateau continued . 
What had become of the cuirassiers ? No one could have told . 
This horseman had pierced the English lines . 
One of the men who picked up the body still lives at Mont Saint Jean . 
He was eighteen years old at that time . 
Wellington felt that he was yielding . 
The crisis was at hand . 
The cuirassiers had not succeeded , since the centre was not broken through . 
As every one was in possession of the plateau , no one held it , and in fact it remained , to a great extent , with the English . 
Wellington held the village and the culminating plain Ney had only the crest and the slope . 
They seemed rooted in that fatal soil on both sides . 
But the weakening of the English seemed irremediable . 
The bleeding of that army was horrible . 
Kempt , on the left wing , demanded reinforcements . 
The furious onsets of those great squadrons with cuirasses of iron and breasts of steel had ground the infantry to nothing . 
The loss in officers was considerable . 
Lord Uxbridge , who had his leg buried on the following day , had his knee shattered . 
The transports , ammunition wagons , the baggage wagons , the wagons filled with wounded , on perceiving that the French were gaining ground and approaching the forest , rushed headlong thither . 
This panic was such that it attacked the Prince de Conde at Mechlin , and Louis XVIII . 
A number of batteries lay unhorsed . 
These facts are attested by Siborne and Pringle , exaggerating the disaster , goes so far as to say that the Anglo Dutch army was reduced to thirty four thousand men . 
The Iron Duke remained calm , but his lips blanched . 
Vincent , the Austrian commissioner , Alava , the Spanish commissioner , who were present at the battle in the English staff , thought the Duke lost . 
Here comes the change of face in this giant drama . 
CHAPTER XI A BAD GUIDE TO NAPOLEON A GOOD GUIDE TO BULOW The painful surprise of Napoleon is well known . 
Grouchy hoped for , Blucher arriving . 
Fate has these turns the throne of the world was expected it was Saint Helena that was seen . 
Napoleon would have won the battle of Waterloo . 
By any other route than that below Plancenoit , the Prussian army would have come out upon a ravine impassable for artillery , and Bulow would not have arrived . 
Now the Prussian general , Muffling , declares that one hour's delay , and Blucher would not have found Wellington on his feet . 
It was time that Bulow should arrive , as will be seen . 
He had , moreover , been very much delayed . 
He had bivouacked at Dion le Mont , and had set out at daybreak but the roads were impassable , and his divisions stuck fast in the mire . 
The ruts were up to the hubs of the cannons . 
It was mid day before Bulow's vanguard had been able to reach Chapelle Saint Lambert . 
Had the action been begun two hours earlier , it would have been over at four o'clock , and Blucher would have fallen on the battle won by Napoleon . 
Such are these immense risks proportioned to an infinite which we cannot comprehend . 
The Emperor had been the first , as early as mid day , to descry with his field glass , on the extreme horizon , something which had attracted his attention . 
He had said , I see yonder a cloud , which seems to me to be troops . 
But it remained motionless in the mist . 
All the glasses of the staff had studied the cloud pointed out by the Emperor . 
Some said It is trees . 
The truth is , that the cloud did not move . 
The Emperor detached Domon's division of light cavalry to reconnoitre in that quarter . 
Bulow had not moved , in fact . 
His vanguard was very feeble , and could accomplish nothing . 
Conscious that they were about to die , they shouted , Vive l'Empereur ! History records nothing more touching than that agony bursting forth in acclamations . 
The sky had been overcast all day long . 
They had seen it rise at Austerlitz . 
Each battalion of the Guard was commanded by a general for this final catastrophe . 
Friant , Michel , Roguet , Harlet , Mallet , Poret de Morvan , were there . 
There were none who hesitated , no timid men in its ranks . 
The soldier in that troop was as much of a hero as the general . 
Not a man was missing in that suicide . 
Ney , bewildered , great with all the grandeur of accepted death , offered himself to all blows in that tempest . 
He had his fifth horse killed under him there . 
He was haggard and angry . 
The army yielded suddenly on all sides at once , Hougomont , La Haie Sainte , Papelotte , Plancenoit . 
The cry Treachery ! was followed by a cry of Save yourselves who can ! An army which is disbanding is like a thaw . 
All yields , splits , cracks , floats , rolls , falls , jostles , hastens , is precipitated . 
Ney borrows a horse , leaps upon it , and without hat , cravat , or sword , places himself across the Brussels road , stopping both English and French . 
He strives to detain the army , he recalls it to its duty , he insults it , he clings to the rout . 
Lobau at one extremity , and Reille at the other , are drawn into the tide . 
In vain does Napoleon erect walls from what is left to him of his Guard in vain does he expend in a last effort his last serviceable squadrons . 
Napoleon gallops past the line of fugitives , harangues , urges , threatens , entreats them . 
All the mouths which in the morning had shouted , Long live the Emperor ! remain gaping they hardly recognize him . 
The Prussian cavalry , newly arrived , dashes forwards , flies , hews , slashes , kills , exterminates . 
Men are crushed , trampled down , others walk over the dead and the living . 
A dizzy multitude fills the roads , the paths , the bridges , the plains , the hills , the valleys , the woods , encumbered by this invasion of forty thousand men . 
Zieten putting France to the sword at its leisure . 
At Genappe , an effort was made to wheel about , to present a battle front , to draw up in line . 
Lobau rallied three hundred men . 
The entrance to the village was barricaded , but at the first volley of Prussian canister , all took to flight again , and Lobau was taken . 
The Prussians threw themselves into Genappe , furious , no doubt , that they were not more entirely the conquerors . 
Roguet had set the lugubrious example of threatening with death any French grenadier who should bring him a Prussian prisoner . 
The victory was completed by the assassination of the vanquished . 
Let us inflict punishment , since we are history old Blucher disgraced himself . 
This ferocity put the finishing touch to the disaster . 
The desperate route traversed Genappe , traversed Quatre Bras , traversed Gosselies , traversed Frasnes , traversed Charleroi , traversed Thuin , and only halted at the frontier . 
Alas ! and who , then , was fleeing in that manner ? The Grand Army . 
It is the day of destiny . 
The force which is mightier than man produced that day . 
Hence the terrified wrinkle of those brows hence all those great souls surrendering their swords . 
Those who had conquered Europe have fallen prone on the earth , with nothing left to say nor to do , feeling the present shadow of a terrible presence . 
That day the perspective of the human race underwent a change . 
Waterloo is the hinge of the nineteenth century . 
The disappearance of the great man was necessary to the advent of the great century . 
Some one , a person to whom one replies not , took the responsibility on himself . 
The panic of heroes can be explained . 
In the battle of Waterloo there is something more than a cloud , there is something of the meteor . 
It was Napoleon , the immense somnambulist of this dream which had crumbled , essaying once more to advance . 
CHAPTER XIV THE LAST SQUARE Several squares of the Guard , motionless amid this stream of the defeat , as rocks in running water , held their own until night . 
Night came , death also they awaited that double shadow , and , invincible , allowed themselves to be enveloped therein . 
Each regiment , isolated from the rest , and having no bond with the army , now shattered in every part , died alone . 
They had taken up position for this final action , some on the heights of Rossomme , others on the plain of Mont Saint Jean . 
There , abandoned , vanquished , terrible , those gloomy squares endured their death throes in formidable fashion . 
Ulm , Wagram , Jena , Friedland , died with them . 
At twilight , towards nine o'clock in the evening , one of them was left at the foot of the plateau of Mont Saint Jean . 
It was commanded by an obscure officer named Cambronne . 
At each discharge , the square diminished and replied . 
It replied to the grape shot with a fusillade , continually contracting its four walls . 
The fugitives pausing breathless for a moment in the distance , listened in the darkness to that gloomy and ever decreasing thunder . 
This furnished a sort of respite . 
EDITOR'S COMMENTARY Another edition of this book has the word Merde ! in lieu of the above . 
This would enjoin us from consigning something sublime to History . 
At our own risk and peril , let us violate this injunction . 
Now , then , among those giants there was one Titan , Cambronne . 
The winner of Waterloo was Cambronne . 
'Tis like the breaking of a heart under a weight of scorn . 
'Tis the overflow of agony bursting forth . 
Who conquered ? Wellington ? No ! Had it not been for Blucher , he was lost . 
Was it Blucher ? No ! If Wellington had not begun , Blucher could not have finished . 
Then he seeks for the appropriate word as one seeks for a sword . 
His mouth froths , and the froth is the word . 
In face of this mean and mighty victory , in face of this victory which counts none victorious , this desperate soldier stands erect . 
He grants its overwhelming immensity , but he establishes its triviality and he does more than spit upon it . 
Cambronne invents the word for Waterloo as Rouget invents the Marseillaise , under the visitation of a breath from on high . 
It is heard , and Cambronne is recognized as possessed by the ancient spirit of the Titans . 
That formidable remnant had been annihilated the Guard was dead . 
CHAPTER XVI QUOT LIBRAS IN DUCE ? The battle of Waterloo is an enigma . 
It is as obscure to those who won it as to those who lost it . 
For Napoleon it was a panic Blucher sees nothing in it but fire Wellington understands nothing in regard to it . 
The bulletins are confused , the commentaries involved . 
Some stammer , others lisp . 
All the other historians suffer from being somewhat dazzled , and in this dazzled state they fumble about . 
A battle terminated , a day finished , false measures repaired , greater successes assured for the morrow , all was lost by a moment of panic , terror . 
Napoleon , Dictees de Sainte Helene . 
In this event , stamped with superhuman necessity , the part played by men amounts to nothing . 
Thank Heaven , nations are great , independently of the lugubrious feats of the sword . 
Neither England , nor Germany , nor France is contained in a scabbard . 
At this epoch when Waterloo is only a clashing of swords , above Blucher , Germany has Schiller above Wellington , England has Byron . 
A vast dawn of ideas is the peculiarity of our century , and in that aurora England and Germany have a magnificent radiance . 
They are majestic because they think . 
The elevation of level which they contribute to civilization is intrinsic with them it proceeds from themselves and not from an accident . 
The aggrandizement which they have brought to the nineteenth century has not Waterloo as its source . 
It is only barbarous peoples who undergo rapid growth after a victory . 
That is the temporary vanity of torrents swelled by a storm . 
Civilized people , especially in our day , are neither elevated nor abased by the good or bad fortune of a captain . 
Their specific gravity in the human species results from something more than a combat . 
Their honor , thank God ! their dignity , their intelligence , their genius , are not numbers which those gamblers , heroes and conquerors , can put in the lottery of battles . 
Often a battle is lost and progress is conquered . 
There is less glory and more liberty . 
The drum holds its peace reason takes the word . 
It is a game in which he who loses wins . 
Let us , therefore , speak of Waterloo coldly from both sides . 
Let us render to chance that which is due to chance , and to God that which is due to God . 
What is Waterloo ? A victory ? No. The winning number in the lottery . 
The quine won by Europe , paid by France . 
Five winning numbers in a lottery . 
It was not worth while to place a lion there . 
Waterloo , moreover , is the strangest encounter in history . 
They are not enemies they are opposites . 
Never did God , who is fond of antitheses , make a more striking contrast , a more extraordinary comparison . 
Wellington was the Bareme of war Napoleon was its Michael Angelo and on this occasion , genius was vanquished by calculation . 
On both sides some one was awaited . 
It was the exact calculator who succeeded . 
Napoleon was waiting for Grouchy he did not come . 
Wellington expected Blucher he came . 
Wellington is classic war taking its revenge . 
Bonaparte , at his dawning , had encountered him in Italy , and beaten him superbly . 
The old owl had fled before the young vulture . 
The old tactics had been not only struck as by lightning , but disgraced . 
On the th of June , , that rancor had the last word . 
and beneath Lodi , Montebello , Montenotte , Mantua , Arcola , it wrote Waterloo . 
A triumph of the mediocres which is sweet to the majority . 
Destiny consented to this irony . 
In his decline , Napoleon found Wurmser , the younger , again in front of him . 
In fact , to get Wurmser , it sufficed to blanch the hair of Wellington . 
Waterloo is a battle of the first order , won by a captain of the second . 
It was not her captain it was her army . 
Wellington , oddly ungrateful , declares in a letter to Lord Bathurst , that his army , the army which fought on the th of June , , was a detestable army . 
What does that sombre intermingling of bones buried beneath the furrows of Waterloo think of that ? England has been too modest in the matter of Wellington . 
To make Wellington so great is to belittle England . 
Wellington is nothing but a hero like many another . 
The iron soldier is worth as much as the Iron Duke . 
As for us , all our glorification goes to the English soldier , to the English army , to the English people . 
If trophy there be , it is to England that the trophy is due . 
The column of Waterloo would be more just , if , instead of the figure of a man , it bore on high the statue of a people . 
But this great England will be angry at what we are saying here . 
She still cherishes , after her own and our , the feudal illusion . 
She believes in heredity and hierarchy . 
This people , surpassed by none in power and glory , regards itself as a nation , and not as a people . 
And as a people , it willingly subordinates itself and takes a lord for its head . 
As a workman , it allows itself to be disdained as a soldier , it allows itself to be flogged . 
That which we admire above all , in an encounter of the nature of Waterloo , is the marvellous cleverness of chance . 
On the whole , let us say it plainly , it was more of a massacre than of a battle at Waterloo . 
Of all pitched battles , Waterloo is the one which has the smallest front for such a number of combatants . 
Napoleon three quarters of a league Wellington , half a league seventy two thousand combatants on each side . 
From this denseness the carnage arose . 
At Wagram , French , thirteen per cent Austrians , fourteen . 
At the Moskowa , French , thirty seven per cent Russians , forty four . 
At Bautzen , French , thirteen per cent Russians and Prussians , fourteen . 
At Waterloo , French , fifty six per cent the Allies , thirty one . 
Total for Waterloo , forty one per cent one hundred and forty four thousand combatants sixty thousand dead . 
To day the field of Waterloo has the calm which belongs to the earth , the impassive support of man , and it resembles all plains . 
CHAPTER XVII IS WATERLOO TO BE CONSIDERED GOOD ? There exists a very respectable liberal school which does not hate Waterloo . 
We do not belong to it . 
To us , Waterloo is but the stupefied date of liberty . 
That such an eagle should emerge from such an egg is certainly unexpected . 
If one places one's self at the culminating point of view of the question , Waterloo is intentionally a counter revolutionary victory . 
The final extinction of that vast people which had been in eruption for twenty six years such was the dream . 
The solidarity of the Brunswicks , the Nassaus , the Romanoffs , the Hohenzollerns , the Hapsburgs with the Bourbons . 
Waterloo bears divine right on its crupper . 
granting and conforming to the charter . 
Bonaparte places a postilion on the throne of Naples , and a sergeant on the throne of Sweden , employing inequality to demonstrate equality Louis XVIII . 
at Saint Ouen countersigns the declaration of the rights of man . 
If you wish to gain an idea of what revolution is , call it Progress and if you wish to acquire an idea of the nature of progress , call it To morrow . 
To morrow fulfils its work irresistibly , and it is already fulfilling it to day . 
It always reaches its goal strangely . 
It employs Wellington to make of Foy , who was only a soldier , an orator . 
Foy falls at Hougomont and rises again in the tribune . 
There is no such thing as a bad tool for that workman . 
It does not become disconcerted , but adjusts to its divine work the man who has bestridden the Alps , and the good old tottering invalid of Father Elysee . 
It makes use of the gouty man as well as of the conqueror of the conqueror without , of the gouty man within . 
Waterloo , by cutting short the demolition of European thrones by the sword , had no other effect than to cause the revolutionary work to be continued in another direction . 
The slashers have finished it was the turn of the thinkers . 
The century that Waterloo was intended to arrest has pursued its march . 
That sinister victory was vanquished by liberty . 
It was the counter revolution which murmured that infamous word dismemberment . 
Let us behold in Waterloo only that which is in Waterloo . 
Of intentional liberty there is none . 
The counter revolution was involuntarily liberal , in the same manner as , by a corresponding phenomenon , Napoleon was involuntarily revolutionary . 
On the th of June , , the mounted Robespierre was hurled from his saddle . 
CHAPTER XVIII A RECRUDESCENCE OF DIVINE RIGHT End of the dictatorship . 
A whole European system crumbled away . 
The Empire sank into a gloom which resembled that of the Roman world as it expired . 
The Empire was bewept , let us acknowledge the fact , and bewept by heroic eyes . 
If glory lies in the sword converted into a sceptre , the Empire had been glory in person . 
It had diffused over the earth all the light which tyranny can give a sombre light . 
We will say more an obscure light . 
Compared to the true daylight , it is night . 
This disappearance of night produces the effect of an eclipse . 
The circling dances of the th of July effaced the enthusiasms of the th of March . 
The Corsican became the antithesis of the Bearnese . 
The flag on the dome of the Tuileries was white . 
Hartwell's pine table took its place in front of the fleur de lys strewn throne of Louis XIV . 
Bouvines and Fontenoy were mentioned as though they had taken place on the preceding day , Austerlitz having become antiquated . 
The altar and the throne fraternized majestically . 
One of the most undisputed forms of the health of society in the nineteenth century was established over France , and over the continent . 
Europe adopted the white cockade . 
The device non pluribus impar re appeared on the stone rays representing a sun upon the front of the barracks on the Quai d'Orsay . 
Where there had been an Imperial Guard , there was now a red house . 
The cemetery of the Madeleine , a terrible pauper's grave in , was covered with jasper and marble , since the bones of Louis XVI . 
and Marie Antoinette lay in that dust . 
In the moat of Vincennes a sepulchral shaft sprang from the earth , recalling the fact that the Duc d'Enghien had perished in the very month when Napoleon was crowned . 
, who had performed the coronation very near this death , tranquilly bestowed his blessing on the fall as he had bestowed it on the elevation . 
At Schoenbrunn there was a little shadow , aged four , whom it was seditious to call the King of Rome . 
Ancient unhealthy and poisonous realities were covered with new appearances . 
A lie wedded the right divine was masked under a charter fictions became constitutional prejudices , superstitions and mental reservations , with Article in the heart , were varnished over with liberalism . 
It was the serpent's change of skin . 
Man had been rendered both greater and smaller by Napoleon . 
Under this reign of splendid matter , the ideal had received the strange name of ideology ! It is a grave imprudence in a great man to turn the future into derision . 
The populace , however , that food for cannon which is so fond of the cannoneer , sought him with its glance . 
Where is he ? What is he doing ? Napoleon is dead , said a passer by to a veteran of Marengo and Waterloo . 
He dead ! cried the soldier you don't know him . 
Imagination distrusted this man , even when overthrown . 
The depths of Europe were full of darkness after Waterloo . 
Something enormous remained long empty through Napoleon's disappearance . 
The kings placed themselves in this void . 
Ancient Europe profited by it to undertake reforms . 
There was a Holy Alliance Belle Alliance , Beautiful Alliance , the fatal field of Waterloo had said in advance . 
In presence and in face of that antique Europe reconstructed , the features of a new France were sketched out . 
The future , which the Emperor had rallied , made its entry . 
On its brow it bore the star , Liberty . 
The glowing eyes of all young generations were turned on it . 
Singular fact ! people were , at one and the same time , in love with the future , Liberty , and the past , Napoleon . 
Defeat had rendered the vanquished greater . 
Bonaparte fallen seemed more lofty than Napoleon erect . 
Those who had triumphed were alarmed . 
England had him guarded by Hudson Lowe , and France had him watched by Montchenu . 
His folded arms became a source of uneasiness to thrones . 
Alexander called him my sleeplessness . 
This terror was the result of the quantity of revolution which was contained in him . 
That is what explains and excuses Bonapartist liberalism . 
This phantom caused the old world to tremble . 
The kings reigned , but ill at their ease , with the rock of Saint Helena on the horizon . 
The Congress of Vienna made the treaties in , and Europe called this the Restoration . 
This is what Waterloo was . 
CHAPTER XIX THE BATTLE FIELD AT NIGHT Let us return it is a necessity in this book to that fatal battle field . 
On the th of June the moon was full . 
Its light favored Blucher's ferocious pursuit , betrayed the traces of the fugitives , delivered up that disastrous mass to the eager Prussian cavalry , and aided the massacre . 
Such tragic favors of the night do occur sometimes during catastrophes . 
After the last cannon shot had been fired , the plain of Mont Saint Jean remained deserted . 
The English occupied the encampment of the French it is the usual sign of victory to sleep in the bed of the vanquished . 
They established their bivouac beyond Rossomme . 
The Prussians , let loose on the retreating rout , pushed forward . 
Wellington went to the village of Waterloo to draw up his report to Lord Bathurst . 
If ever the sic vos non vobis was applicable , it certainly is to that village of Waterloo . 
Waterloo took no part , and lay half a league from the scene of action . 
We are not of the number of those who flatter war when the occasion presents itself , we tell the truth about it . 
War has frightful beauties which we have not concealed it has also , we acknowledge , some hideous features . 
One of the most surprising is the prompt stripping of the bodies of the dead after the victory . 
The dawn which follows a battle always rises on naked corpses . 
It is the same men , they say there is no relief corps those who are erect pillage those who are prone on the earth . 
The hero of the day is the vampire of the night . 
One has assuredly the right , after all , to strip a corpse a bit when one is the author of that corpse . 
For our own part , we do not think so it seems to us impossible that the same hand should pluck laurels and purloin the shoes from a dead man . 
One thing is certain , which is , that generally after conquerors follow thieves . 
But let us leave the soldier , especially the contemporary soldier , out of the question . 
Every army has a rear guard , and it is that which must be blamed . 
No army , no nation , was responsible for those beings they spoke Italian and followed the Germans , then spoke French and followed the English . 
The rascal sprang from this marauding . 
The detestable maxim , Live on the enemy ! produced this leprosy , which a strict discipline alone could heal . 
There are reputations which are deceptive one does not always know why certain generals , great in other directions , have been so popular . 
Turenne was adored by his soldiers because he tolerated pillage evil permitted constitutes part of goodness . 
Turenne was so good that he allowed the Palatinate to be delivered over to fire and blood . 
The marauders in the train of an army were more or less in number , according as the chief was more or less severe . 
Hoche and Marceau had no stragglers Wellington had few , and we do him the justice to mention it . 
Nevertheless , on the night from the th to the th of June , the dead were robbed . 
Wellington was rigid he gave orders that any one caught in the act should be shot but rapine is tenacious . 
The marauders stole in one corner of the battlefield while others were being shot in another . 
The moon was sinister over this plain . 
Towards midnight , a man was prowling about , or rather , climbing in the direction of the hollow road of Ohain . 
He was clad in a blouse that was something like a great coat he was uneasy and audacious he walked forwards and gazed behind him . 
Who was this man ? The night probably knew more of him than the day . 
He had no sack , but evidently he had large pockets under his coat . 
His sliding motion , his attitudes , his mysterious and rapid gestures , caused him to resemble those twilight larvae which haunt ruins , and which ancient Norman legends call the Alleurs . 
Certain nocturnal wading birds produce these silhouettes among the marshes . 
Perhaps there was some connection between that wagon and that prowler . 
Not a cloud in the zenith . 
What matters it if the earth be red ! the moon remains white these are the indifferences of the sky . 
In the fields , branches of trees broken by grape shot , but not fallen , upheld by their bark , swayed gently in the breeze of night . 
A breath , almost a respiration , moved the shrubbery . 
Quivers which resembled the departure of souls ran through the grass . 
In the distance the coming and going of patrols and the general rounds of the English camp were audible . 
We have described the catastrophe of the road of Ohain . 
The heart is terrified at the thought of what that death must have been to so many brave men . 
The edges of the hollow road were encumbered with horses and riders , inextricably heaped up . 
Terrible entanglement ! There was no longer any slope , for the corpses had levelled the road with the plain , and reached the brim like a well filled bushel of barley . 
A heap of dead bodies in the upper part , a river of blood in the lower part such was that road on the evening of the th of June , . 
It will be remembered that it was at the opposite point , in the direction of the Genappe road , that the destruction of the cuirassiers had taken place . 
The thickness of the layer of bodies was proportioned to the depth of the hollow road . 
Towards the middle , at the point where it became level , where Delort's division had passed , the layer of corpses was thinner . 
The nocturnal prowler whom we have just shown to the reader was going in that direction . 
He was searching that vast tomb . 
He passed the dead in some sort of hideous review . 
He walked with his feet in the blood . 
All at once he paused . 
That hand had on its finger something sparkling , which was a ring of gold . 
The man bent over , remained in a crouching attitude for a moment , and when he rose there was no longer a ring on the hand . 
The jackal's four paws suit some actions . 
Then coming to a decision , he rose to his feet . 
At that moment , he gave a terrible start . 
He felt some one clutch him from behind . 
He wheeled round it was the open hand , which had closed , and had seized the skirt of his coat . 
An honest man would have been terrified this man burst into a laugh . 
Come , said he , it's only a dead body . 
I prefer a spook to a gendarme . 
But the hand weakened and released him . 
Effort is quickly exhausted in the grave . 
Well now , said the prowler , is that dead fellow alive ? Let's see . 
He was a cuirassier , an officer , and even an officer of considerable rank a large gold epaulette peeped from beneath the cuirass this officer no longer possessed a helmet . 
A furious sword cut had scarred his face , where nothing was discernible but blood . 
His eyes were still closed . 
On his cuirass he wore the silver cross of the Legion of Honor . 
The prowler tore off this cross , which disappeared into one of the gulfs which he had beneath his great coat . 
Then he felt of the officer's fob , discovered a watch there , and took possession of it . 
Next he searched his waistcoat , found a purse and pocketed it . 
When he had arrived at this stage of succor which he was administering to this dying man , the officer opened his eyes . 
Thanks , he said feebly . 
The abruptness of the movements of the man who was manipulating him , the freshness of the night , the air which he could inhale freely , had roused him from his lethargy . 
The prowler made no reply . 
A sound of footsteps was audible in the plain some patrol was probably approaching . 
The officer murmured , for the death agony was still in his voice Who won the battle ? The English , answered the prowler . 
The officer went on Look in my pockets you will find a watch and a purse . 
The prowler executed the required feint , and said There is nothing there . 
I have been robbed , said the officer I am sorry for that . 
You should have had them . 
The steps of the patrol became more and more distinct . 
Some one is coming , said the prowler , with the movement of a man who is taking his departure . 
The officer raised his arm feebly , and detained him . 
You have saved my life . 
Who are you ? The prowler answered rapidly , and in a low voice Like yourself , I belonged to the French army . 
If they were to catch me , they would shoot me . 
I have saved your life . 
Now get out of the scrape yourself . 
What is your rank ? Sergeant . 
What is your name ? Thenardier . 
I shall not forget that name , said the officer and do you remember mine . 
THE SHIP ORION CHAPTER I NUMBER , BECOMES NUMBER , Jean Valjean had been recaptured . 
The reader will be grateful to us if we pass rapidly over the sad details . 
It must be remembered , that at that epoch the Gazette des Tribunaux was not yet in existence . 
We borrow the first from the Drapeau Blanc . 
It bears the date of July , . 
An arrondissement of the Pas de Calais has just been the theatre of an event quite out of the ordinary course . 
He had made his fortune in the business , and that of the arrondissement as well , we will admit . 
He had been appointed mayor , in recognition of his services . 
The police discovered that M. Madeleine was no other than an ex convict who had broken his ban , condemned in for theft , and named Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean has been recommitted to prison . 
No one has been able to discover where Jean Valjean has concealed this money since his return to prison at Toulon . 
The second article , which enters a little more into detail , is an extract from the Journal de Paris , of the same date . 
A former convict , who had been liberated , named Jean Valjean , has just appeared before the Court of Assizes of the Var , under circumstances calculated to attract attention . 
He has at last been unmasked and arrested , thanks to the indefatigable zeal of the public prosecutor . 
He had for his concubine a woman of the town , who died of a shock at the moment of his arrest . 
He is said to have profited by this interval of three or four days of liberty , to withdraw a considerable sum deposited by him with one of our leading bankers . 
This sum has been estimated at six or seven hundred thousand francs . 
If the indictment is to be trusted , he has hidden it in some place known to himself alone , and it has not been possible to lay hands on it . 
Arrive from Savoy every year , And who , with gentle hands , do clear Those long canals choked up with soot . 
This bandit refused to defend himself . 
Jean Valjean was pronounced guilty and was condemned to the death penalty in consequence . 
This criminal refused to lodge an appeal . 
The king , in his inexhaustible clemency , has deigned to commute his penalty to that of penal servitude for life . 
Jean Valjean was immediately taken to the prison at Toulon . 
The reader has not forgotten that Jean Valjean had religious habits at M. sur M. Some papers , among others the Constitutional , presented this commutation as a triumph of the priestly party . 
Jean Valjean changed his number in the galleys . 
Lieutenants are crowned kings superintendents improvise manufacturers out of themselves . 
M. Madeleine's vast workshops were shut his buildings fell to ruin , his workmen were scattered . 
Some of them quitted the country , others abandoned the trade . 
Thenceforth , everything was done on a small scale , instead of on a grand scale for lucre instead of the general good . 
There was no longer a centre everywhere there was competition and animosity . 
M. Madeleine had reigned over all and directed all . 
And then there was nothing more for the poor . 
The state itself perceived that some one had been crushed somewhere . 
We are among those who respect everything which is in the nature of a rare plant . 
Here , then , is the superstition of Montfermeil it is thought that the devil , from time immemorial , has selected the forest as a hiding place for his treasures . 
This ought , in fact , to render him recognizable . 
This man is habitually engaged in digging a hole . 
There are three ways of profiting by such an encounter . 
The first is to approach the man and speak to him . 
The man returns home and dies within the week . 
In this case one dies within the month . 
Finally , the last method is not to speak to the black man , not to look at him , and to flee at the best speed of one's legs . 
One then dies within the year . 
The success of the operation appears to be but moderate . 
This Tryphon is buried at the Abbey of Saint Georges de Bocherville , near Rouen , and toads spawn on his grave . 
Accordingly , enormous efforts are made . 
This is what Tryphon's verses seem to announce to the indiscreet and curious Fodit , et in fossa thesauros condit opaca , As , nummas , lapides , cadaver , simulacra , nihilque . 
It seems that in our day there is sometimes found a powder horn with bullets , sometimes an old pack of cards greasy and worn , which has evidently served the devil . 
People thereabouts thought they knew that this Boulatruelle had been in the galleys . 
The only thing in his favor was that he was a drunkard . 
He was encountered towards evening in the most deserted clearings , in the wildest thickets and he had the appearance of being in search of something , and sometimes he was digging holes . 
The goodwives who passed took him at first for Beelzebub then they recognized Boulatruelle , and were not in the least reassured thereby . 
These encounters seemed to cause Boulatruelle a lively displeasure . 
It was evident that he sought to hide , and that there was some mystery in what he was doing . 
It was said in the village It is clear that the devil has appeared . 
Boulatruelle has seen him , and is on the search . 
In sooth , he is cunning enough to pocket Lucifer's hoard . 
The Voltairians added , Will Boulatruelle catch the devil , or will the devil catch Boulatruelle ? The old women made a great many signs of the cross . 
In the meantime , Boulatruelle's manoeuvres in the forest ceased and he resumed his regular occupation of roadmending and people gossiped of something else . 
The most puzzled were the school master and Thenardier , the proprietor of the tavern , who was everybody's friend , and had not disdained to ally himself with Boulatruelle . 
He has been in the galleys , said Thenardier . 
Eh ! Good God ! no one knows who has been there or will be there . 
Let us put him to the wine test , said Thenardier . 
They made an effort , and got the old road mender to drinking . 
Boulatruelle drank an enormous amount , but said very little . 
He combined with admirable art , and in masterly proportions , the thirst of a gormandizer with the discretion of a judge . 
However , he might have supposed that they were probably the shovel and pick of Father Six Fours , the water carrier , and would have thought no more about it . 
Translation by Thenardier A comrade of the galleys . 
Boulatruelle obstinately refused to reveal his name . 
This person carried a package something square , like a large box or a small trunk . 
Surprise on the part of Boulatruelle . 
However , it was only after the expiration of seven or eight minutes that the idea of following that person had occurred to him . 
But it was too late the person was already in the thicket , night had descended , and Boulatruelle had not been able to catch up with him . 
Then he had adopted the course of watching for him at the edge of the woods . 
Two or three hours later , Boulatruelle had seen this person emerge from the brushwood , carrying no longer the coffer , but a shovel and pick . 
Touching effusion of two old comrades on meeting again . 
But the shovel and pick had served as a ray of light to Boulatruelle he had hastened to the thicket in the morning , and had found neither shovel nor pick . 
Now , the coffer was too small to contain a body therefore it contained money . 
Boulatruelle had explored , sounded , searched the entire forest and the thicket , and had dug wherever the earth appeared to him to have been recently turned up . 
He had ferreted out nothing . 
No one in Montfermeil thought any more about it . 
This vessel , battered as it was , for the sea had handled it roughly , produced a fine effect as it entered the roads . 
It flew some colors which procured for it the regulation salute of eleven guns , which it returned , shot for shot total , twenty two . 
, the civilized world , discharged all over the earth , in the course of four and twenty hours , one hundred and fifty thousand useless shots . 
At six francs the shot , that comes to nine hundred thousand francs a day , three hundred millions a year , which vanish in smoke . 
This is a mere detail . 
All this time the poor were dying of hunger . 
The year was what the Restoration called the epoch of the Spanish war . 
This war contained many events in one , and a quantity of peculiarities . 
Such was this war , made by the princes descended from Louis XIV . 
, and conducted by generals who had been under Napoleon . 
Its sad fate was to recall neither the grand war nor grand politics . 
A debasing war , in short , in which the Bank of France could be read in the folds of the flag . 
Soldiers of the war of , on whom Saragossa had fallen in formidable ruin , frowned in at the easy surrender of citadels , and began to regret Palafox . 
It is the nature of France to prefer to have Rostopchine rather than Ballesteros in front of her . 
It was an enterprise of inthralment . 
In that campaign , the object of the French soldier , the son of democracy , was the conquest of a yoke for others . 
France is made to arouse the soul of nations , not to stifle it . 
All the revolutions of Europe since are the French Revolution liberty darts rays from France . 
That is a solar fact . 
Blind is he who will not see ! It was Bonaparte who said it . 
The war of , an outrage on the generous Spanish nation , was then , at the same time , an outrage on the French Revolution . 
It was France who committed this monstrous violence by foul means , for , with the exception of wars of liberation , everything that armies do is by foul means . 
The words passive obedience indicate this . 
An army is a strange masterpiece of combination where force results from an enormous sum of impotence . 
Thus is war , made by humanity against humanity , despite humanity , explained . 
As for the Bourbons , the war of was fatal to them . 
They took it for a success . 
They did not perceive the danger that lies in having an idea slain to order . 
They went astray , in their innocence , to such a degree that they introduced the immense enfeeblement of a crime into their establishment as an element of strength . 
The spirit of the ambush entered into their politics . 
The Spanish campaign became in their counsels an argument for force and for adventures by right Divine . 
France , having re established elrey netto in Spain , might well have re established the absolute king at home . 
They fell into the alarming error of taking the obedience of the soldier for the consent of the nation . 
Such confidence is the ruin of thrones . 
It is not permitted to fall asleep , either in the shadow of a machineel tree , nor in the shadow of an army . 
Let us return to the ship Orion . 
During the operations of the army commanded by the prince generalissimo , a squadron had been cruising in the Mediterranean . 
We have just stated that the Orion belonged to this fleet , and that accidents of the sea had brought it into port at Toulon . 
The presence of a vessel of war in a port has something about it which attracts and engages a crowd . 
It is because it is great , and the crowd loves what is great . 
A ship of the line is one of the most magnificent combinations of the genius of man with the powers of nature . 
Its breath pours out through its hundred and twenty cannons as through enormous trumpets , and replies proudly to the thunder . 
In the blackest nights , its lanterns supply the place of the stars . 
The vessels in process of construction are under a bell glass there , as it were . 
This colossal beam is a yard that great column of wood which stretches out on the earth as far as the eye can reach is the main mast . 
Taking it from its root in the stocks to its tip in the clouds , it is sixty fathoms long , and its diameter at its base is three feet . 
The English main mast rises to a height of two hundred and seventeen feet above the water line . 
The navy of our fathers employed cables , ours employs chains . 
The simple pile of chains on a ship of a hundred guns is four feet high , twenty feet in breadth , and eight feet in depth . 
And how much wood is required to make this ship ? Three thousand cubic metres . 
It is a floating forest . 
Not to mention these new marvels , the ancient vessel of Christopher Columbus and of De Ruyter is one of the masterpieces of man . 
It anchored near the Arsenal it was fully equipped , and repairs were begun . 
The hull had received no damage on the starboard , but some of the planks had been unnailed here and there , according to custom , to permit of air entering the hold . 
One morning the crowd which was gazing at it witnessed an accident . 
It was incurring a frightful risk to go to his assistance not one of the sailors , all fishermen of the coast , recently levied for the service , dared to attempt it . 
All were awaiting the minute when he should release his hold on the rope , and , from instant to instant , heads were turned aside that his fall might not be seen . 
On arriving on a level with the top , a gust of wind carried away his cap , and allowed a perfectly white head to be seen he was not a young man . 
At last , the convict raised his eyes to heaven and advanced a step the crowd drew a long breath . 
One would have said it was a spider coming to seize a fly , only here the spider brought life , not death . 
In the meantime , the convict had succeeded in lowering himself to a position near the sailor . 
It was high time one minute more , and the exhausted and despairing man would have allowed himself to fall into the abyss . 
The convict had moored him securely with the cord to which he clung with one hand , while he was working with the other . 
In order to reach them the more speedily , he dropped into the rigging , and ran along one of the lower yards all eyes were following him . 
At a certain moment fear assailed them whether it was that he was fatigued , or that his head turned , they thought they saw him hesitate and stagger . 
All at once the crowd uttered a loud shout the convict had fallen into the sea . 
The search was continued until the evening they did not even find the body . 
On the following day the Toulon newspaper printed these lines Nov . 
Yesterday , a convict belonging to the detachment on board of the Orion , on his return from rendering assistance to a sailor , fell into the sea and was drowned . 
At the present day it is a tolerably large town , ornamented all the year through with plaster villas , and on Sundays with beaming bourgeois . 
In there were at Montfermeil neither so many white houses nor so many well satisfied citizens it was only a village in the forest . 
It was necessary to fetch it from a considerable distance the end of the village towards Gagny drew its water from the magnificent ponds which exist in the woods there . 
Thus each household found it hard work to keep supplied with water . 
This constituted the terror of the poor creature whom the reader has probably not forgotten , little Cosette . 
It will be remembered that Cosette was useful to the Thenardiers in two ways they made the mother pay them , and they made the child serve them . 
So when the mother ceased to pay altogether , the reason for which we have read in preceding chapters , the Thenardiers kept Cosette . 
She took the place of a servant in their house . 
In this capacity she it was who ran to fetch water when it was required . 
So the child , who was greatly terrified at the idea of going to the spring at night , took great care that water should never be lacking in the house . 
Christmas of the year was particularly brilliant at Montfermeil . 
The beginning of the winter had been mild there had been neither snow nor frost up to that time . 
These people filled the inns and drinking shops , and communicated to that tranquil little district a noisy and joyous life . 
I believe that naturalists call this bird Caracara Polyborus it belongs to the order of the Apicides , and to the family of the vultures . 
Some good old Bonapartist soldiers , who had retired to the village , went to see this creature with great devotion . 
The mountebanks gave out that the tricolored cockade was a unique phenomenon made by God expressly for their menagerie . 
This room resembled all drinking shop rooms , tables , pewter jugs , bottles , drinkers , smokers but little light and a great deal of noise . 
The date of the year was indicated , nevertheless , by two objects which were then fashionable in the bourgeois class to wit , a kaleidoscope and a lamp of ribbed tin . 
The female Thenardier was attending to the supper , which was roasting in front of a clear fire her husband was drinking with his customers and talking politics . 
When ten pieces were reckoned on there have been twelve . 
They have yielded a great deal of juice under the press . 
But the grapes cannot be ripe ? In those parts the grapes should not be ripe the wine turns oily as soon as spring comes . 
Then it is very thin wine ? There are wines poorer even than these . 
The grapes must be gathered while green . 
I am not fond of grinding Breton wheat , any more than long sawyers like to saw beams with nails in them . 
You can judge of the bad dust that makes in grinding . 
And then people complain of the flour . 
They are in the wrong . 
The flour is no fault of ours . 
Dew is a good thing , sir . 
It makes no difference with that grass . 
Your grass is young and very hard to cut still . 
It yields before the iron . 
Cosette was in her usual place , seated on the cross bar of the kitchen table near the chimney . 
She was in rags her bare feet were thrust into wooden shoes , and by the firelight she was engaged in knitting woollen stockings destined for the young Thenardiers . 
A very young kitten was playing about among the chairs . 
Laughter and chatter were audible in the adjoining room , from two fresh children's voices it was Eponine and Azelma . 
In the chimney corner a cat o' nine tails was hanging on a nail . 
At intervals the cry of a very young child , which was somewhere in the house , rang through the noise of the dram shop . 
The mother had nursed him , but she did not love him . 
When the persistent clamor of the brat became too annoying , Your son is squalling , Thenardier would say do go and see what he wants . 
Bah ! the mother would reply , he bothers me . 
And the neglected child continued to shriek in the dark . 
She did everything about the house , made the beds , did the washing , the cooking , and everything else . 
Cosette was her only servant a mouse in the service of an elephant . 
Everything trembled at the sound of her voice , window panes , furniture , and people . 
Her big face , dotted with red blotches , presented the appearance of a skimmer . 
She was an ideal market porter dressed in woman's clothes . 
She swore splendidly she boasted of being able to crack a nut with one blow of her fist . 
This Thenardier female was like the product of a wench engrafted on a fishwife . 
One of her teeth projected when her face was in repose . 
Thenardier was a small , thin , pale , angular , bony , feeble man , who had a sickly air and who was wonderfully healthy . 
His cunning began here he smiled habitually , by way of precaution , and was almost polite to everybody , even to the beggar to whom he refused half a farthing . 
He had the glance of a pole cat and the bearing of a man of letters . 
He greatly resembled the portraits of the Abbe Delille . 
His coquetry consisted in drinking with the carters . 
No one had ever succeeded in rendering him drunk . 
He smoked a big pipe . 
He wore a blouse , and under his blouse an old black coat . 
He made pretensions to literature and to materialism . 
There were certain names which he often pronounced to support whatever things he might be saying , Voltaire , Raynal , Parny , and , singularly enough , Saint Augustine . 
He declared that he had a system . 
In addition , he was a great swindler . 
A filousophe philosophe , a scientific thief . 
Thence arose for his wall the flaring sign , and for his inn the name which it bore in the neighborhood , of the cabaret of the Sergeant of Waterloo . 
He was a liberal , a classic , and a Bonapartist . 
He had subscribed for the Champ d'Asile . 
It was said in the village that he had studied for the priesthood . 
We believe that he had simply studied in Holland for an inn keeper . 
As for his prowess at Waterloo , the reader is already acquainted with that . 
It will be perceived that he exaggerated it a trifle . 
This campaign ended , and having , as he said , some quibus , he had come to Montfermeil and set up an inn there . 
Thenardier had that peculiar rectilinear something about his gestures which , accompanied by an oath , recalls the barracks , and by a sign of the cross , the seminary . 
He was a fine talker . 
He allowed it to be thought that he was an educated man . 
Nevertheless , the schoolmaster had noticed that he pronounced improperly . 
, pronounced a t or an s at the end of words where the opposite letter should occur , or used either one of them where neither exists . 
He composed the travellers' tariff card in a superior manner , but practised eyes sometimes spied out orthographical errors in it . 
Thenardier was cunning , greedy , slothful , and clever . 
He did not disdain his servants , which caused his wife to dispense with them . 
It seemed to her that that thin and yellow little man must be an object coveted by all . 
Thenardier , who was , above all , an astute and well balanced man , was a scamp of a temperate sort . 
This is the worst species hypocrisy enters into it . 
He had something of the look of sailors , who are accustomed to screw up their eyes to gaze through marine glasses . 
Every new comer who entered the tavern said , on catching sight of Madame Thenardier , There is the master of the house . 
She was not even the mistress . 
The husband was both master and mistress . 
He directed everything by a sort of invisible and constant magnetic action . 
A word was sufficient for him , sometimes a sign the mastodon obeyed . 
Thenardier was a sort of special and sovereign being in Madame Thenardier's eyes , though she did not thoroughly realize it . 
She would never have committed before strangers that mistake so often committed by women , and which is called in parliamentary language , exposing the crown . 
Although their concord had only evil as its result , there was contemplation in Madame Thenardier's submission to her husband . 
That mountain of noise and of flesh moved under the little finger of that frail despot . 
There was an unknown quantity about Thenardier hence the absolute empire of the man over that woman . 
At certain moments she beheld him like a lighted candle at others she felt him like a claw . 
This woman was a formidable creature who loved no one except her children , and who did not fear any one except her husband . 
She was a mother because she was mammiferous . 
But her maternity stopped short with her daughters , and , as we shall see , did not extend to boys . 
The man had but one thought , how to enrich himself . 
He did not succeed in this . 
A theatre worthy of this great talent was lacking . 
It will be understood that the word inn keeper is here employed in a restricted sense , and does not extend to an entire class . 
In this same year , , Thenardier was burdened with about fifteen hundred francs' worth of petty debts , and this rendered him anxious . 
Besides , he was an admirable poacher , and quoted for his skill in shooting . 
He had a certain cold and tranquil laugh , which was particularly dangerous . 
His theories as a landlord sometimes burst forth in lightning flashes . 
He had professional aphorisms , which he inserted into his wife's mind . 
Such were these two beings . 
Cosette was between them , subjected to their double pressure , like a creature who is at the same time being ground up in a mill and pulled to pieces with pincers . 
The man and the woman each had a different method Cosette was overwhelmed with blows this was the woman's she went barefooted in winter that was the man's doing . 
There was no mercy for her a fierce mistress and venomous master . 
The Thenardier hostelry was like a spider's web , in which Cosette had been caught , and where she lay trembling . 
The ideal of oppression was realized by this sinister household . 
It was something like the fly serving the spiders . 
The poor child passively held her peace . 
Cosette was meditating sadly for , although she was only eight years old , she had already suffered so much that she reflected with the lugubrious air of an old woman . 
She was somewhat reassured because no one in the Thenardier establishment drank much water . 
Thirsty people were never lacking there but their thirst was of the sort which applies to the jug rather than to the pitcher . 
Any one who had asked for a glass of water among all those glasses of wine would have appeared a savage to all these men . 
She turned the faucet the child had raised her head and was following all the woman's movements . 
A thin stream of water trickled from the faucet , and half filled the glass . 
Well , said she , there is no more water ! A momentary silence ensued . 
The child did not breathe . 
Bah ! resumed Madame Thenardier , examining the half filled glass , this will be enough . 
Cosette applied herself to her work once more , but for a quarter of an hour she felt her heart leaping in her bosom like a big snow flake . 
She counted the minutes that passed in this manner , and wished it were the next morning . 
All at once one of the pedlers who lodged in the hostelry entered , and said in a harsh voice My horse has not been watered . 
Yes , it has , said Madame Thenardier . 
I tell you that it has not , retorted the pedler . 
Cosette had emerged from under the table . 
It was not true Cosette lied . 
There's a brat as big as my fist who tells lies as big as the house , exclaimed the pedler . 
I tell you that he has not been watered , you little jade ! He has a way of blowing when he has had no water , which I know well . 
Cosette persisted , and added in a voice rendered hoarse with anguish , and which was hardly audible And he drank heartily . 
In truth , that is fair ! said Madame Thenardier , if the beast has not been watered , it must be . 
Then glancing about her Well , now ! Where's that other beast ? She bent down and discovered Cosette cowering at the other end of the table , almost under the drinkers' feet . 
Are you coming ? shrieked Madame Thenardier . 
Cosette crawled out of the sort of hole in which she had hidden herself . 
The Thenardier resumed Mademoiselle Dog lack name , go and water that horse . 
But , Madame , said Cosette , feebly , there is no water . 
This bucket was bigger than she was , and the child could have set down in it at her ease . 
The Thenardier returned to her stove , and tasted what was in the stewpan , with a wooden spoon , grumbling the while There's plenty in the spring . 
There never was such a malicious creature as that . 
I think I should have done better to strain my onions . 
Then she rummaged in a drawer which contained sous , pepper , and shallots . 
See here , Mam'selle Toad , she added , on your way back , you will get a big loaf from the baker . 
Here's a fifteen sou piece . 
Cosette had a little pocket on one side of her apron she took the coin without saying a word , and put it in that pocket . 
Then she stood motionless , bucket in hand , the open door before her . 
She seemed to be waiting for some one to come to her rescue . 
Get along with you ! screamed the Thenardier . 
The door closed behind her . 
In compensation , not a star was visible in the sky . 
The last of these stalls , established precisely opposite the Thenardiers' door , was a toy shop all glittering with tinsel , glass , and magnificent objects of tin . 
Eponine and Azelma had passed hours in contemplating it , and Cosette herself had ventured to cast a glance at it , on the sly , it is true . 
The poor child paused in amazement . 
She had not yet beheld that doll close to . 
The whole shop seemed a palace to her the doll was not a doll it was a vision . 
It was joy , splendor , riches , happiness , which appeared in a sort of chimerical halo to that unhappy little being so profoundly engulfed in gloomy and chilly misery . 
With the sad and innocent sagacity of childhood , Cosette measured the abyss which separated her from that doll . 
She said to herself that one must be a queen , or at least a princess , to have a thing like that . 
The more she looked , the more dazzled she grew . 
She thought she was gazing at paradise . 
There were other dolls behind the large one , which seemed to her to be fairies and genii . 
The merchant , who was pacing back and forth in front of his shop , produced on her somewhat the effect of being the Eternal Father . 
In this adoration she forgot everything , even the errand with which she was charged . 
Cosette fled , dragging her pail , and taking the longest strides of which she was capable . 
She did not glance at the display of a single other merchant . 
So long as she was in Boulanger Lane and in the neighborhood of the church , the lighted stalls illuminated the road but soon the last light from the last stall vanished . 
The poor child found herself in the dark . 
Only , as a certain emotion overcame her , she made as much motion as possible with the handle of the bucket as she walked along . 
This made a noise which afforded her company . 
The further she went , the denser the darkness became . 
There was no one in the streets . 
Well , said she , it's the Lark ! In this manner Cosette traversed the labyrinth of tortuous and deserted streets which terminate in the village of Montfermeil on the side of Chelles . 
So long as she had the houses or even the walls only on both sides of her path , she proceeded with tolerable boldness . 
From time to time she caught the flicker of a candle through the crack of a shutter this was light and life there were people there , and it reassured her . 
But in proportion as she advanced , her pace slackened mechanically , as it were . 
When she had passed the corner of the last house , Cosette paused . 
It had been hard to advance further than the last stall it became impossible to proceed further than the last house . 
It was no longer Montfermeil it was the open fields . 
Black and desert space was before her . 
She gazed in despair at that darkness , where there was no longer any one , where there were beasts , where there were spectres , possibly . 
She took a good look , and heard the beasts walking on the grass , and she distinctly saw spectres moving in the trees . 
Then she seized her bucket again fear had lent her audacity . 
Bah ! said she I will tell him that there was no more water ! And she resolutely re entered Montfermeil . 
Hardly had she gone a hundred paces when she paused and began to scratch her head again . 
Now it was the Thenardier who appeared to her , with her hideous , hyena mouth , and wrath flashing in her eyes . 
The child cast a melancholy glance before her and behind her . 
It was before the Thenardier that she recoiled . 
She resumed her path to the spring , and began to run . 
She emerged from the village , she entered the forest at a run , no longer looking at or listening to anything . 
She only paused in her course when her breath failed her but she did not halt in her advance . 
She went straight before her in desperation . 
As she ran she felt like crying . 
The nocturnal quivering of the forest surrounded her completely . 
She no longer thought , she no longer saw . 
The immensity of night was facing this tiny creature . 
On the one hand , all shadow on the other , an atom . 
It was only seven or eight minutes' walk from the edge of the woods to the spring . 
Cosette knew the way , through having gone over it many times in daylight . 
Strange to say , she did not get lost . 
A remnant of instinct guided her vaguely . 
But she did not turn her eyes either to right or to left , for fear of seeing things in the branches and in the brushwood . 
In this manner she reached the spring . 
's frills , and paved with several large stones . 
A brook ran out of it , with a tranquil little noise . 
Cosette did not take time to breathe . 
It was very dark , but she was in the habit of coming to this spring . 
She was in a state of such violent excitement that her strength was trebled . 
While thus bent over , she did not notice that the pocket of her apron had emptied itself into the spring . 
The fifteen sou piece fell into the water . 
Cosette neither saw nor heard it fall . 
She drew out the bucket nearly full , and set it on the grass . 
That done , she perceived that she was worn out with fatigue . 
She would have liked to set out again at once , but the effort required to fill the bucket had been such that she found it impossible to take a step . 
She was forced to sit down . 
She dropped on the grass , and remained crouching there . 
She shut her eyes then she opened them again , without knowing why , but because she could not do otherwise . 
The agitated water in the bucket beside her was describing circles which resembled tin serpents . 
Overhead the sky was covered with vast black clouds , which were like masses of smoke . 
The tragic mask of shadow seemed to bend vaguely over the child . 
Jupiter was setting in the depths . 
The child stared with bewildered eyes at this great star , with which she was unfamiliar , and which terrified her . 
The planet was , in fact , very near the horizon and was traversing a dense layer of mist which imparted to it a horrible ruddy hue . 
The mist , gloomily empurpled , magnified the star . 
One would have called it a luminous wound . 
A cold wind was blowing from the plain . 
The forest was dark , not a leaf was moving there were none of the vague , fresh gleams of summertide . 
Great boughs uplifted themselves in frightful wise . 
Slender and misshapen bushes whistled in the clearings . 
The tall grasses undulated like eels under the north wind . 
The nettles seemed to twist long arms furnished with claws in search of prey . 
Some bits of dry heather , tossed by the breeze , flew rapidly by , and had the air of fleeing in terror before something which was coming after . 
On all sides there were lugubrious stretches . 
Whoever buries himself in the opposite of day feels his heart contract . 
When the eye sees black , the heart sees trouble . 
In an eclipse in the night , in the sooty opacity , there is anxiety even for the stoutest of hearts . 
No one walks alone in the forest at night without trembling . 
Shadows and trees two formidable densities . 
A chimerical reality appears in the indistinct depths . 
The inconceivable is outlined a few paces distant from you with a spectral clearness . 
One beholds floating , either in space or in one's own brain , one knows not what vague and intangible thing , like the dreams of sleeping flowers . 
There are fierce attitudes on the horizon . 
One inhales the effluvia of the great black void . 
One is afraid to glance behind him , yet desirous of doing so . 
There is no hardihood which does not shudder and which does not feel the vicinity of anguish . 
One is conscious of something hideous , as though one's soul were becoming amalgamated with the darkness . 
This penetration of the shadows is indescribably sinister in the case of a child . 
Forests are apocalypses , and the beating of the wings of a tiny soul produces a sound of agony beneath their monstrous vault . 
In this manner she advanced a dozen paces , but the bucket was full it was heavy she was forced to set it on the ground once more . 
After some seconds of repose she set out again . 
She walked bent forward , with drooping head , like an old woman the weight of the bucket strained and stiffened her thin arms . 
And her mother , no doubt , alas ! For there are things that make the dead open their eyes in their graves . 
However , she could not make much headway in that manner , and she went on very slowly . 
This anguish was mingled with her terror at being alone in the woods at night she was worn out with fatigue , and had not yet emerged from the forest . 
This man , without uttering a word , had seized the handle of the bucket which she was carrying . 
There are instincts for all the encounters of life . 
The child was not afraid . 
We shall see further on that this man had , in fact , hired a chamber in that isolated quarter . 
This man , in his attire , as in all his person , realized the type of what may be called the well bred mendicant , extreme wretchedness combined with extreme cleanliness . 
This is a very rare mixture which inspires intelligent hearts with that double respect which one feels for the man who is very poor , and for the man who is very worthy . 
He would have been pronounced a preceptor in some good family , returned from the emigration . 
Judging from his firm tread , from the singular vigor which stamped all his movements , he would have hardly been thought fifty . 
The wrinkles on his brow were well placed , and would have disposed in his favor any one who observed him attentively . 
His lip contracted with a strange fold which seemed severe , and which was humble . 
There was in the depth of his glance an indescribable melancholy serenity . 
In his left hand he carried a little bundle tied up in a handkerchief in his right he leaned on a sort of a cudgel , cut from some hedge . 
There are but few passers by on that boulevard , particularly in the winter . 
The man seemed to avoid them rather than to seek them , but this without any affectation . 
At that epoch , King Louis XVIII . 
went nearly every day to Choisy le Roi it was one of his favorite excursions . 
Towards two o'clock , almost invariably , the royal carriage and cavalcade was seen to pass at full speed along the Boulevard de l'Hopital . 
This served in lieu of a watch or clock to the poor women of the quarter who said , It is two o'clock there he is returning to the Tuileries . 
And some rushed forward , and others drew up in line , for a passing king always creates a tumult besides , the appearance and disappearance of Louis XVIII . 
produced a certain effect in the streets of Paris . 
It was rapid but majestic . 
This impotent king had a taste for a fast gallop as he was not able to walk , he wished to run that cripple would gladly have had himself drawn by the lightning . 
He passed , pacific and severe , in the midst of naked swords . 
His massive couch , all covered with gilding , with great branches of lilies painted on the panels , thundered noisily along . 
There was hardly time to cast a glance upon it . 
This infallible passage of the king at the same hour was , therefore , the daily event of the Boulevard de l'Hopital . 
The promenader in the yellow coat evidently did not belong in the quarter , and probably did not belong in Paris , for he was ignorant as to this detail . 
There was no one but himself in this cross lane . 
He drew up hastily behind the corner of the wall of an enclosure , though this did not prevent M. le Duc de Havre from spying him out . 
M. le Duc de Havre , as captain of the guard on duty that day , was seated in the carriage , opposite the king . 
He said to his Majesty , Yonder is an evil looking man . 
Members of the police , who were clearing the king's route , took equal note of him one of them received an order to follow him . 
This poster , illuminated by the theatre lanterns , struck him for , although he was walking rapidly , he halted to read it . 
This coach set out at half past four . 
The horses were harnessed , and the travellers , summoned by the coachman , were hastily climbing the lofty iron ladder of the vehicle . 
The man inquired Have you a place ? Only one beside me on the box , said the coachman . 
Nevertheless , before setting out , the coachman cast a glance at the traveller's shabby dress , at the diminutive size of his bundle , and made him pay his fare . 
Are you going as far as Lagny ? demanded the coachman . 
Yes , said the man . 
The traveller paid to Lagny . 
When they had passed the barrier , the coachman tried to enter into conversation , but the traveller only replied in monosyllables . 
The coachman took to whistling and swearing at his horses . 
The coachman wrapped himself up in his cloak . 
The man did not appear to be thinking of that . 
Thus they passed Gournay and Neuilly sur Marne . 
Towards six o'clock in the evening they reached Chelles . 
The coachman drew up in front of the carters' inn installed in the ancient buildings of the Royal Abbey , to give his horses a breathing spell . 
I get down here , said the man . 
He took his bundle and his cudgel and jumped down from the vehicle . 
An instant later he had disappeared . 
He did not enter the inn . 
When the coach set out for Lagny a few minutes later , it did not encounter him in the principal street of Chelles . 
The coachman turned to the inside travellers . 
There , said he , is a man who does not belong here , for I do not know him . 
He had not the air of owning a sou , but he does not consider money he pays to Lagny , and he goes only as far as Chelles . 
It is night all the houses are shut he does not enter the inn , and he is not to be found . 
So he has dived through the earth . 
He followed this road rapidly . 
At the spot where it is intersected by the ancient tree bordered road which runs from Gagny to Lagny , he heard people coming . 
He concealed himself precipitately in a ditch , and there waited until the passers by were at a distance . 
The precaution was nearly superfluous , however for , as we have already said , it was a very dark December night . 
Not more than two or three stars were visible in the sky . 
It is at this point that the ascent of the hill begins . 
The man did not return to the road to Montfermeil he struck across the fields to the right , and entered the forest with long strides . 
There came a moment when he appeared to lose himself , and he paused in indecision . 
At last he arrived , by dint of feeling his way inch by inch , at a clearing where there was a great heap of whitish stones . 
He stepped up briskly to these stones , and examined them attentively through the mists of night , as though he were passing them in review . 
A large tree , covered with those excrescences which are the warts of vegetation , stood a few paces distant from the pile of stones . 
He went up to this tree and passed his hand over the bark of the trunk , as though seeking to recognize and count all the warts . 
He raised himself on tiptoe and touched this band of zinc . 
That done , he took his bearings , and resumed his march through the forest . 
It was the man who had just met Cosette . 
He drew near , and perceived that it was a very young child , laden with an enormous bucket of water . 
Then he approached the child , and silently grasped the handle of the bucket . 
CHAPTER VII COSETTE SIDE BY SIDE WITH THE STRANGER IN THE DARK Cosette , as we have said , was not frightened . 
He spoke in a voice that was grave and almost bass . 
My child , what you are carrying is very heavy for you . 
Cosette raised her head and replied Yes , sir . 
Give it to me , said the man I will carry it for you . 
Cosette let go of the bucket handle . 
The man walked along beside her . 
It really is very heavy , he muttered between his teeth . 
Then he added How old are you , little one ? Eight , sir . 
And have you come from far like this ? From the spring in the forest . 
Are you going far ? A good quarter of an hour's walk from here . 
The man said nothing for a moment then he remarked abruptly So you have no mother . 
I don't know , answered the child . 
Before the man had time to speak again , she added I don't think so . 
And after a silence she went on I think that I never had any . 
Cosette's thin and sickly face was vaguely outlined by the livid light in the sky . 
What is your name ? said the man . 
The man seemed to have received an electric shock . 
He looked at her once more then he removed his hands from Cosette's shoulders , seized the bucket , and set out again . 
After a moment he inquired Where do you live , little one ? At Montfermeil , if you know where that is . 
That is where we are going ? Yes , sir . 
He paused then began again Who sent you at such an hour to get water in the forest ? It was Madame Thenardier . 
The inn ? said the man . 
Well , I am going to lodge there to night . 
We are on the way there , said the child . 
The man walked tolerably fast . 
Cosette followed him without difficulty . 
She no longer felt any fatigue . 
From time to time she raised her eyes towards the man , with a sort of tranquillity and an indescribable confidence . 
She had never been taught to turn to Providence and to pray nevertheless , she felt within her something which resembled hope and joy , and which mounted towards heaven . 
The man resumed Is there no servant in Madame Thenardier's house ? No , sir . 
Are you alone there ? Yes , sir . 
Cosette lifted up her voice That is to say , there are two little girls . 
What little girls ? Ponine and Zelma . 
This was the way the child simplified the romantic names so dear to the female Thenardier . 
Who are Ponine and Zelma ? They are Madame Thenardier's young ladies her daughters , as you would say . 
And what do those girls do ? Oh ! said the child , they have beautiful dolls things with gold in them , all full of affairs . 
They play they amuse themselves . 
All day long ? Yes , sir . 
And you ? I ? I work . 
All day long ? The child raised her great eyes , in which hung a tear , which was not visible because of the darkness , and replied gently Yes , sir . 
After an interval of silence she went on Sometimes , when I have finished my work and they let me , I amuse myself , too . 
How do you amuse yourself ? In the best way I can . 
They let me alone but I have not many playthings . 
Ponine and Zelma will not let me play with their dolls . 
I have only a little lead sword , no longer than that . 
The child held up her tiny finger . 
And it will not cut ? Yes , sir , said the child it cuts salad and the heads of flies . 
Cosette guided the stranger through the streets . 
They passed the bakeshop , but Cosette did not think of the bread which she had been ordered to fetch . 
The man had ceased to ply her with questions , and now preserved a gloomy silence . 
As they approached the tavern , Cosette timidly touched his arm Monsieur ? What , my child ? We are quite near the house . 
Well ? Will you let me take my bucket now ? Why ? If Madame sees that some one has carried it for me , she will beat me . 
The man handed her the bucket . 
An instant later they were at the tavern door . 
The Thenardier appeared with a candle in her hand . 
The Thenardier speedily replaced her gruff air by her amiable grimace , a change of aspect common to tavern keepers , and eagerly sought the new comer with her eyes . 
This is the gentleman ? said she . 
Yes , Madame , replied the man , raising his hand to his hat . 
Wealthy travellers are not so polite . 
She resumed dryly Enter , my good man . 
The husband replied by that imperceptible movement of the forefinger , which , backed up by an inflation of the lips , signifies in such cases A regular beggar . 
Thereupon , the Thenardier exclaimed Ah ! see here , my good man I am very sorry , but I have no room left . 
Put me where you like , said the man in the attic , in the stable . 
I will pay as though I occupied a room . 
I don't lodge poor folks for less . 
That's true , added her husband , gently it ruins a house to have such people in it . 
The merchant who had demanded the bucket of water took it to his horse himself . 
Cosette resumed her place under the kitchen table , and her knitting . 
The man , who had barely moistened his lips in the wine which he had poured out for himself , observed the child with peculiar attention . 
If she had been happy , she might have been pretty . 
We have already given a sketch of that sombre little figure . 
Cosette was thin and pale she was nearly eight years old , but she seemed to be hardly six . 
Her large eyes , sunken in a sort of shadow , were almost put out with weeping . 
The corners of her mouth had that curve of habitual anguish which is seen in condemned persons and desperately sick people . 
Her hands were , as her mother had divined , ruined with chilblains . 
The fire which illuminated her at that moment brought into relief all the angles of her bones , and rendered her thinness frightfully apparent . 
As she was always shivering , she had acquired the habit of pressing her knees one against the other . 
Her entire clothing was but a rag which would have inspired pity in summer , and which inspired horror in winter . 
All she had on was hole ridden linen , not a scrap of woollen . 
Her skin was visible here and there and everywhere black and blue spots could be descried , which marked the places where the Thenardier woman had touched her . 
Her naked legs were thin and red . 
The hollows in her neck were enough to make one weep . 
In the depths of her eyes there was an astonished nook where terror lurked . 
As we have stated , she had never known what it is to pray she had never set foot in a church . 
Have I the time ? said the Thenardier . 
The man in the yellow coat never took his eyes from Cosette . 
She had completely forgotten the bread . 
She had recourse to the expedient of children who live in a constant state of fear . 
Madame , the baker's shop was shut . 
I did knock , Madame . 
Well ? He did not open the door . 
I'll find out to morrow whether that is true , said the Thenardier and if you are telling me a lie , I'll lead you a pretty dance . 
In the meantime , give me back my fifteen sou piece . 
Cosette plunged her hand into the pocket of her apron , and turned green . 
The fifteen sou piece was not there . 
Ah , come now , said Madame Thenardier , did you hear me ? Cosette turned her pocket inside out there was nothing in it . 
What could have become of that money ? The unhappy little creature could not find a word to say . 
This formidable gesture restored to Cosette sufficient strength to shriek Mercy , Madame , Madame ! I will not do so any more ! The Thenardier took down the whip . 
In the meantime , the man in the yellow coat had been fumbling in the fob of his waistcoat , without any one having noticed his movements . 
Besides , the other travellers were drinking or playing cards , and were not paying attention to anything . 
Cosette contracted herself into a ball , with anguish , within the angle of the chimney , endeavoring to gather up and conceal her poor half nude limbs . 
The Thenardier raised her arm . 
Pardon me , Madame , said the man , but just now I caught sight of something which had fallen from this little one's apron pocket , and rolled aside . 
At the same time he bent down and seemed to be searching on the floor for a moment . 
Exactly here it is , he went on , straightening himself up . 
And he held out a silver coin to the Thenardier . 
Yes , that's it , said she . 
It was not it , for it was a twenty sou piece but the Thenardier found it to her advantage . 
Thus far it was only an innocent amazement , but a sort of stupefied confidence was mingled with it . 
By the way , would you like some supper ? the Thenardier inquired of the traveller . 
He appeared to be absorbed in thought . 
What sort of a man is that ? she muttered between her teeth . 
He's some frightfully poor wretch . 
He hasn't a sou to pay for a supper . 
Will he even pay me for his lodging ? It's very lucky , all the same , that it did not occur to him to steal the money that was on the floor . 
In the meantime , a door had opened , and Eponine and Azelma entered . 
They were warmly clad , but with so much maternal art that the thickness of the stuffs did not detract from the coquetry of arrangement . 
There was a hint of winter , though the springtime was not wholly effaced . 
Light emanated from these two little beings . 
Besides this , they were on the throne . 
In their toilettes , in their gayety , in the noise which they made , there was sovereignty . 
They had a doll , which they turned over and over on their knees with all sorts of joyous chatter . 
From time to time Cosette raised her eyes from her knitting , and watched their play with a melancholy air . 
Eponine and Azelma did not look at Cosette . 
She was the same as a dog to them . 
Ah ! I've caught you at it ! she cried . 
So that's the way you work ! I'll make you work to the tune of the whip that I will . 
The stranger turned to the Thenardier , without quitting his chair . 
She retorted with acrimony She must work , since she eats . 
I don't feed her to do nothing . 
What is she making ? went on the stranger , in a gentle voice which contrasted strangely with his beggarly garments and his porter's shoulders . 
The Thenardier deigned to reply Stockings , if you please . 
Stockings for my little girls , who have none , so to speak , and who are absolutely barefoot just now . 
Will you sell them for five francs ? went on the man . 
Yes , sir if such is your fancy , you will be allowed to have that pair of stockings for five francs . 
We can refuse nothing to travellers . 
You must pay on the spot , said the Thenardier , in her curt and peremptory fashion . 
Then he turned to Cosette . 
Now I own your work play , my child . 
The carter was so much touched by the five franc piece , that he abandoned his glass and hastened up . 
But it's true ! he cried , examining it . 
A real hind wheel ! and not counterfeit ! Thenardier approached and silently put the coin in his pocket . 
The Thenardier had no reply to make . 
She bit her lips , and her face assumed an expression of hatred . 
In the meantime , Cosette was trembling . 
She ventured to ask Is it true , Madame ? May I play ? Play ! said the Thenardier , in a terrible voice . 
Thanks , Madame , said Cosette . 
And while her mouth thanked the Thenardier , her whole little soul thanked the traveller . 
Cosette had dropped her knitting , but had not left her seat . 
Cosette always moved as little as possible . 
She picked up some old rags and her little lead sword from a box behind her . 
Eponine and Azelma paid no attention to what was going on . 
They had just executed a very important operation they had just got hold of the cat . 
You see , sister , this doll is more amusing than the other . 
She twists , she cries , she is warm . 
See , sister , let us play with her . 
She shall be my little girl . 
I will be a lady . 
I will come to see you , and you shall look at her . 
Gradually , you will perceive her whiskers , and that will surprise you . 
And then you will see her ears , and then you will see her tail and it will amaze you . 
And you will say to me , Ah ! Mon Dieu ! and I will say to you Yes , Madame , it is my little girl . 
Little girls are made like that just at present . 
Azelma listened admiringly to Eponine . 
In the meantime , the drinkers had begun to sing an obscene song , and to laugh at it until the ceiling shook . 
Thenardier accompanied and encouraged them . 
As birds make nests out of everything , so children make a doll out of anything which comes to hand . 
While Eponine and Azelma were bundling up the cat , Cosette , on her side , had dressed up her sword . 
That done , she laid it in her arms , and sang to it softly , to lull it to sleep . 
The doll is one of the most imperious needs and , at the same time , one of the most charming instincts of feminine childhood . 
The first child is the continuation of the last doll . 
A little girl without a doll is almost as unhappy , and quite as impossible , as a woman without children . 
So Cosette had made herself a doll out of the sword . 
At this word , Monsieur , the man turned up to that time , the Thenardier had addressed him only as brave homme or bonhomme . 
You see , she has nothing she must needs work . 
Then this child is not yours ? demanded the man . 
Oh ! mon Dieu ! no , sir ! she is a little beggar whom we have taken in through charity a sort of imbecile child . 
She must have water on the brain she has a large head , as you see . 
We do what we can for her , for we are not rich we have written in vain to her native place , and have received no reply these six months . 
It must be that her mother is dead . 
Ah ! said the man , and fell into his revery once more . 
Her mother didn't amount to much , added the Thenardier she abandoned her child . 
The Thenardier went off to take part in the shouts of laughter . 
Cosette , from her post under the table , gazed at the fire , which was reflected from her fixed eyes . 
What does Monsieur wish ? Bread and cheese , said the man . 
Decidedly , he is a beggar thought Madame Thenardier . 
The drunken men were still singing their song , and the child under the table was singing hers . 
Then she dropped the swaddled sword , which only half met her needs , and cast her eyes slowly round the room . 
An instant later she was in her place again , seated motionless , and only turned so as to cast a shadow on the doll which she held in her arms . 
The happiness of playing with a doll was so rare for her that it contained all the violence of voluptuousness . 
No one had seen her , except the traveller , who was slowly devouring his meagre supper . 
This joy lasted about a quarter of an hour . 
But with all the precautions that Cosette had taken she did not perceive that one of the doll's legs stuck out and that the fire on the hearth lighted it up very vividly . 
That pink and shining foot , projecting from the shadow , suddenly struck the eye of Azelma , who said to Eponine , Look ! sister . 
Let me alone ! said her mother what do you want ? Mother , said the child , look there ! And she pointed to Cosette . 
Cosette , absorbed in the ecstasies of possession , no longer saw or heard anything . 
Madame Thenardier's countenance assumed that peculiar expression which is composed of the terrible mingled with the trifles of life , and which has caused this style of woman to be named megaeras . 
On this occasion , wounded pride exasperated her wrath still further . 
Cosette had overstepped all bounds Cosette had laid violent hands on the doll belonging to these young ladies . 
A czarina who should see a muzhik trying on her imperial son's blue ribbon would wear no other face . 
She shrieked in a voice rendered hoarse with indignation Cosette ! Cosette started as though the earth had trembled beneath her she turned round . 
Cosette ! repeated the Thenardier . 
Meanwhile , the traveller had risen to his feet . 
What is the matter ? he said to the Thenardier . 
Don't you see ? said the Thenardier , pointing to the corpus delicti which lay at Cosette's feet . 
Well , what of it ? resumed the man . 
Will you stop your noise ? screamed the Thenardier . 
The man went straight to the street door , opened it , and stepped out . 
As soon as he had gone , the Thenardier profited by his absence to give Cosette a hearty kick under the table , which made the child utter loud cries . 
She no longer cried she no longer wept she had the appearance of no longer daring to breathe . 
The Thenardier , Eponine , and Azelma were like statues also the very drinkers had paused a solemn silence reigned through the whole room . 
The face of the male Thenardier presented that expressive fold which accentuates the human countenance whenever the dominant instinct appears there in all its bestial force . 
The tavern keeper stared alternately at the doll and at the traveller he seemed to be scenting out the man , as he would have scented out a bag of money . 
This did not last longer than the space of a flash of lightning . 
He stepped up to his wife and said to her in a low voice That machine costs at least thirty francs . 
Down on your belly before that man ! Gross natures have this in common with naive natures , that they possess no transition state . 
The gentleman has given you a doll , my little Cosette , said Thenardier , with a caressing air . 
Take it it is yours . 
Cosette gazed at the marvellous doll in a sort of terror . 
Her face was still flooded with tears , but her eyes began to fill , like the sky at daybreak , with strange beams of joy . 
What she felt at that moment was a little like what she would have felt if she had been abruptly told , Little one , you are the Queen of France . 
It seemed to her that if she touched that doll , lightning would dart from it . 
This was true , up to a certain point , for she said to herself that the Thenardier would scold and beat her . 
Nevertheless , the attraction carried the day . 
Pardi ! cried the Thenardier , it is yours . 
The gentleman has given it to you . 
Truly , sir ? said Cosette . 
Is it true ? Is the lady' mine ? The stranger's eyes seemed to be full of tears . 
He appeared to have reached that point of emotion where a man does not speak for fear lest he should weep . 
He nodded to Cosette , and placed the lady's hand in her tiny hand . 
Cosette hastily withdrew her hand , as though that of the lady scorched her , and began to stare at the floor . 
We are forced to add that at that moment she stuck out her tongue immoderately . 
All at once she wheeled round and seized the doll in a transport . 
I shall call her Catherine , she said . 
It was an odd moment when Cosette's rags met and clasped the ribbons and fresh pink muslins of the doll . 
Madame , she resumed , may I put her on a chair ? Yes , my child , replied the Thenardier . 
It was now the turn of Eponine and Azelma to gaze at Cosette with envy . 
Cosette placed Catherine on a chair , then seated herself on the floor in front of her , and remained motionless , without uttering a word , in an attitude of contemplation . 
Play , Cosette , said the stranger . 
Oh ! I am playing , returned the child . 
However , it was necessary to control herself . 
Habituated as she was to dissimulation through endeavoring to copy her husband in all his actions , these emotions were more than she could endure . 
Cosette went off to bed , carrying Catherine in her arms . 
From time to time the Thenardier went to the other end of the room where her husband was , to relieve her soul , as she said . 
She exchanged with her husband words which were all the more furious because she dared not utter them aloud . 
A traveller can do what he pleases when he pays for it . 
If the old fellow is a philanthropist , what is that to you ? If he is an imbecile , it does not concern you . 
What are you worrying for , so long as he has money ? The language of a master , and the reasoning of an innkeeper , neither of which admitted of any reply . 
The man had placed his elbows on the table , and resumed his thoughtful attitude . 
All the other travellers , both pedlers and carters , had withdrawn a little , and had ceased singing . 
They were staring at him from a distance , with a sort of respectful awe . 
From time to time he changed the elbow on which he leaned . 
That was all but he had not said a word since Cosette had left the room . 
The Thenardiers alone , out of politeness and curiosity , had remained in the room . 
Is he going to pass the night in that fashion ? grumbled the Thenardier . 
When two o'clock in the morning struck , she declared herself vanquished , and said to her husband , I'm going to bed . 
Her husband seated himself at a table in the corner , lighted a candle , and began to read the Courrier Francais . 
A good hour passed thus . 
The worthy inn keeper had perused the Courrier Francais at least three times , from the date of the number to the printer's name . 
The stranger did not stir . 
Thenardier fidgeted , coughed , spit , blew his nose , and creaked his chair . 
Not a movement on the man's part . 
Is he asleep ? thought Thenardier . 
The man was not asleep , but nothing could arouse him . 
To repose smacked of luxury and respect . 
These words possess the mysterious and admirable property of swelling the bill on the following day . 
A chamber where one sleeps costs twenty sous a chamber in which one reposes costs twenty francs . 
Well ! said the stranger , you are right . 
Where is your stable ? Sir ! exclaimed Thenardier , with a smile , I will conduct you , sir . 
What is this ? said the traveller . 
It is really our bridal chamber , said the tavern keeper . 
My wife and I occupy another . 
This is only entered three or four times a year . 
I should have liked the stable quite as well , said the man , abruptly . 
Thenardier pretended not to hear this unamiable remark . 
He lighted two perfectly fresh wax candles which figured on the chimney piece . 
A very good fire was flickering on the hearth . 
On the chimney piece , under a glass globe , stood a woman's head dress in silver wire and orange flowers . 
And what is this ? resumed the stranger . 
That , sir , said Thenardier , is my wife's wedding bonnet . 
The traveller surveyed the object with a glance which seemed to say , There really was a time , then , when that monster was a maiden ? Thenardier lied , however . 
When the traveller turned round , the host had disappeared . 
The inn keeper retired to his room . 
His wife was in bed , but she was not asleep . 
When she heard her husband's step she turned over and said to him Do you know , I'm going to turn Cosette out of doors to morrow . 
Thenardier replied coldly How you do go on ! They exchanged no further words , and a few moments later their candle was extinguished . 
As for the traveller , he had deposited his cudgel and his bundle in a corner . 
The landlord once gone , he threw himself into an arm chair and remained for some time buried in thought . 
He traversed a corridor and came upon a staircase . 
There he heard a very faint and gentle sound like the breathing of a child . 
He followed this sound , and came to a sort of triangular recess built under the staircase , or rather formed by the staircase itself . 
This recess was nothing else than the space under the steps . 
This was placed on the floor . 
In this bed Cosette was sleeping . 
The man approached and gazed down upon her . 
Cosette was in a profound sleep she was fully dressed . 
In the winter she did not undress , in order that she might not be so cold . 
Against her breast was pressed the doll , whose large eyes , wide open , glittered in the dark . 
From time to time she gave vent to a deep sigh as though she were on the point of waking , and she strained the doll almost convulsively in her arms . 
Beside her bed there was only one of her wooden shoes . 
A door which stood open near Cosette's pallet permitted a view of a rather large , dark room . 
The stranger stepped into it . 
At the further extremity , through a glass door , he saw two small , very white beds . 
They belonged to Eponine and Azelma . 
Behind these beds , and half hidden , stood an uncurtained wicker cradle , in which the little boy who had cried all the evening lay asleep . 
The stranger conjectured that this chamber connected with that of the Thenardier pair . 
There was no fire in this one , there was not even ashes but there was something which attracted the stranger's gaze , nevertheless . 
It was two tiny children's shoes , coquettish in shape and unequal in size . 
Eponine and Azelma had taken care not to omit this , and each of them had set one of her shoes on the hearth . 
The traveller bent over them . 
The fairy , that is to say , their mother , had already paid her visit , and in each he saw a brand new and shining ten sou piece . 
The man straightened himself up , and was on the point of withdrawing , when far in , in the darkest corner of the hearth , he caught sight of another object . 
He looked at it , and recognized a wooden shoe , a frightful shoe of the coarsest description , half dilapidated and all covered with ashes and dried mud . 
Cosette , with that touching trust of childhood , which can always be deceived yet never discouraged , had placed her shoe on the hearth stone also . 
Hope in a child who has never known anything but despair is a sweet and touching thing . 
There was nothing in this wooden shoe . 
The stranger fumbled in his waistcoat , bent over and placed a louis d'or in Cosette's shoe . 
Then he regained his own chamber with the stealthy tread of a wolf . 
His wife , standing beside him , and half bent over him , was following him with her eyes . 
They exchanged not a word . 
On the one hand , there was profound meditation , on the other , the religious admiration with which one watches the birth and development of a marvel of the human mind . 
A noise was audible in the house it was the Lark sweeping the stairs . 
After the lapse of a good quarter of an hour , and some erasures , Thenardier produced the following masterpiece BILL OF THE GENTLEMAN IN No. . 
Twenty three francs ! cried the woman , with an enthusiasm which was mingled with some hesitation . 
Like all great artists , Thenardier was dissatisfied . 
It was the accent of Castlereagh auditing France's bill at the Congress of Vienna . 
Monsieur Thenardier , you are right he certainly owes that , murmured the wife , who was thinking of the doll bestowed on Cosette in the presence of her daughters . 
It is just , but it is too much . 
He will not pay it . 
Thenardier laughed coldly , as usual , and said He will pay . 
This laugh was the supreme assertion of certainty and authority . 
That which was asserted in this manner must needs be so . 
His wife did not insist . 
She set about arranging the table her husband paced the room . 
A moment later he added I owe full fifteen hundred francs ! He went and seated himself in the chimney corner , meditating , with his feet among the warm ashes . 
than keep her another day in the house ! Thenardier lighted his pipe , and replied between two puffs You will hand that bill to the man . 
Hardly had he left the room when the traveller entered . 
Thenardier instantly reappeared behind him and remained motionless in the half open door , visible only to his wife . 
The yellow man carried his bundle and his cudgel in his hand . 
Her hard face presented a shade which was not habitual with it , timidity and scruples . 
To present such a bill to a man who had so completely the air of a poor wretch seemed difficult to her . 
The traveller appeared to be preoccupied and absent minded . 
He replied Yes , Madame , I am going . 
So Monsieur has no business in Montfermeil ? No , I was passing through . 
What do I owe you , Madame , he added . 
The Thenardier silently handed him the folded bill . 
The man unfolded the paper and glanced at it but his thoughts were evidently elsewhere . 
Madame , he resumed , is business good here in Montfermeil ? So so , Monsieur , replied the Thenardier , stupefied at not witnessing another sort of explosion . 
If we had not , now and then , some rich and generous travellers like Monsieur , we should not get along at all . 
We have so many expenses . 
Just see , that child is costing us our very eyes . 
What child ? Why , the little one , you know ! Cosette the Lark , as she is called hereabouts ! Ah ! said the man . 
She went on How stupid these peasants are with their nicknames ! She has more the air of a bat than of a lark . 
You see , sir , we do not ask charity , and we cannot bestow it . 
We earn nothing and we have to pay out a great deal . 
The license , the imposts , the door and window tax , the hundredths ! Monsieur is aware that the government demands a terrible deal of money . 
And then , I have my daughters . 
I have no need to bring up other people's children . 
The landlady's red and violent face brightened up hideously . 
Really ! You will take her away ? I will take her away . 
Cosette ! screamed the Thenardier . 
In the meantime , pursued the man , I will pay you what I owe you . 
The Thenardier had had time to prepare herself for the shock . 
She replied , with assurance Good gracious , yes , sir , it is twenty three francs . 
The stranger laid five five franc pieces on the table . 
Go and get the child , said he . 
At that moment Thenardier advanced to the middle of the room , and said Monsieur owes twenty six sous . 
Twenty six sous ! exclaimed his wife . 
Twenty sous for the chamber , resumed Thenardier , coldly , and six sous for his supper . 
As for the child , I must discuss that matter a little with the gentleman . 
Madame Thenardier was dazzled as with the shock caused by unexpected lightning flashes of talent . 
She was conscious that a great actor was making his entrance on the stage , uttered not a word in reply , and left the room . 
As soon as they were alone , Thenardier offered the traveller a chair . 
The traveller seated himself Thenardier remained standing , and his face assumed a singular expression of good fellowship and simplicity . 
Sir , said he , what I have to say to you is this , that I adore that child . 
The stranger gazed intently at him . 
What child ? Thenardier continued How strange it is , one grows attached . 
What money is that ? Take back your hundred sou piece . 
Whom do you mean ? demanded the stranger . 
I shall miss that child . 
I saw her first when she was a tiny thing . 
She has neither father nor mother . 
I have brought her up . 
I have bread enough for her and for myself . 
In truth , I think a great deal of that child . 
You see , she is just the same as our own child . 
I want to keep her to babble about the house . 
The stranger kept his eye intently fixed on Thenardier . 
The latter continued Excuse me , sir , but one does not give away one's child to a passer by , like that . 
I am right , am I not ? Still , I don't say you are rich you have the air of a very good man , if it were for her happiness . 
But one must find out that . 
In short , there are things which are not possible . 
I do not even know your name . 
If I take Cosette away , I shall take her away , and that is the end of the matter . 
I break the thread which binds her foot , and she departs . 
It was like an intuition he comprehended it with his clear and sagacious promptitude . 
Not a movement , not a gesture , on the part of the man in the yellow great coat had escaped him . 
Even before the stranger had so clearly manifested his interest in Cosette , Thenardier had divined his purpose . 
He had caught the old man's deep glances returning constantly to the child . 
He had pondered it all night long . 
He could not be Cosette's father . 
Was he her grandfather ? Then why not make himself known at once ? When one has a right , one asserts it . 
This man evidently had no right over Cosette . 
What was it , then ? Thenardier lost himself in conjectures . 
He caught glimpses of everything , but he saw nothing . 
He had expected nothing of the sort . 
His conjectures were put to the rout . 
He weighed everything in the space of a second . 
Thenardier was one of those men who take in a situation at a glance . 
He decided that the moment had arrived for proceeding straightforward , and quickly at that . 
He did as great leaders do at the decisive moment , which they know that they alone recognize he abruptly unmasked his batteries . 
Sir , said he , I am in need of fifteen hundred francs . 
The stranger took from his side pocket an old pocketbook of black leather , opened it , drew out three bank bills , which he laid on the table . 
Then he placed his large thumb on the notes and said to the inn keeper Go and fetch Cosette . 
While this was taking place , what had Cosette been doing ? On waking up , Cosette had run to get her shoe . 
In it she had found the gold piece . 
It was not a Napoleon it was one of those perfectly new twenty franc pieces of the Restoration , on whose effigy the little Prussian queue had replaced the laurel wreath . 
Her destiny began to intoxicate her . 
She did not know what a gold piece was she had never seen one she hid it quickly in her pocket , as though she had stolen it . 
Still , she felt that it really was hers she guessed whence her gift had come , but the joy which she experienced was full of fear . 
She was happy above all she was stupefied . 
Such magnificent and beautiful things did not appear real . 
The doll frightened her , the gold piece frightened her . 
She trembled vaguely in the presence of this magnificence . 
The stranger alone did not frighten her . 
On the contrary , he reassured her . 
Everything had changed for her since she had met that good man in the forest . 
Cosette , less happy than the most insignificant swallow of heaven , had never known what it was to take refuge under a mother's shadow and under a wing . 
For the last five years , that is to say , as far back as her memory ran , the poor child had shivered and trembled . 
She had always been exposed completely naked to the sharp wind of adversity now it seemed to her she was clothed . 
Formerly her soul had seemed cold , now it was warm . 
Cosette was no longer afraid of the Thenardier . 
She was no longer alone there was some one there . 
She hastily set about her regular morning duties . 
That louis , which she had about her , in the very apron pocket whence the fifteen sou piece had fallen on the night before , distracted her thoughts . 
She dared not touch it , but she spent five minutes in gazing at it , with her tongue hanging out , if the truth must be told . 
It was during one of these periods of contemplation that the Thenardier joined her . 
She had gone in search of Cosette at her husband's orders . 
What was quite unprecedented , she neither struck her nor said an insulting word to her . 
Cosette , she said , almost gently , come immediately . 
An instant later Cosette entered the public room . 
The stranger took up the bundle which he had brought and untied it . 
My child , said the man , take these , and go and dress yourself quickly . 
They were going in the direction of Livry . 
It was our man and Cosette . 
No one knew the man as Cosette was no longer in rags , many did not recognize her . 
With whom ? She did not know . 
Whither ? She knew not . 
All that she understood was that she was leaving the Thenardier tavern behind her . 
No one had thought of bidding her farewell , nor had she thought of taking leave of any one . 
She was leaving that hated and hating house . 
Poor , gentle creature , whose heart had been repressed up to that hour ! Cosette walked along gravely , with her large eyes wide open , and gazing at the sky . 
She had put her louis in the pocket of her new apron . 
From time to time , she bent down and glanced at it then she looked at the good man . 
She felt something as though she were beside the good God . 
CHAPTER X HE WHO SEEKS TO BETTER HIMSELF MAY RENDER HIS SITUATION WORSE Madame Thenardier had allowed her husband to have his own way , as was her wont . 
She had expected great results . 
When the man and Cosette had taken their departure , Thenardier allowed a full quarter of an hour to elapse then he took her aside and showed her the fifteen hundred francs . 
Is that all ? said she . 
It was the first time since they had set up housekeeping that she had dared to criticise one of the master's acts . 
You are right , in sooth , said he I am a fool . 
He folded up the three bank bills , thrust them into his pocket , and ran out in all haste but he made a mistake and turned to the right first . 
Some neighbors , of whom he made inquiries , put him on the track again the Lark and the man had been seen going in the direction of Livry . 
He followed these hints , walking with great strides , and talking to himself the while That man is evidently a million dressed in yellow , and I am an animal . 
First he gave twenty sous , then five francs , then fifty francs , then fifteen hundred francs , all with equal readiness . 
He would have given fifteen thousand francs . 
But I shall overtake him . 
And then , that bundle of clothes prepared beforehand for the child all that was singular many mysteries lay concealed under it . 
One does not let mysteries out of one's hand when one has once grasped them . 
The secrets of the wealthy are sponges of gold one must know how to subject them to pressure . 
All these thoughts whirled through his brain . 
I am an animal , said he . 
When one leaves Montfermeil and reaches the turn which the road takes that runs to Livry , it can be seen stretching out before one to a great distance across the plateau . 
On arriving there , he calculated that he ought to be able to see the old man and the child . 
He looked as far as his vision reached , and saw nothing . 
He made fresh inquiries , but he had wasted time . 
Some passers by informed him that the man and child of whom he was in search had gone towards the forest in the direction of Gagny . 
He hastened in that direction . 
They were far in advance of him but a child walks slowly , and he walked fast and then , he was well acquainted with the country . 
All at once he paused and dealt himself a blow on his forehead like a man who has forgotten some essential point and who is ready to retrace his steps . 
I ought to have taken my gun , said he to himself . 
It is the fate of many men to live thus half submerged . 
At the same time certain circumstances being given , certain shocks arriving to bring his under nature to the surface , he had all the requisites for a blackguard . 
He was a shopkeeper in whom there was some taint of the monster . 
Satan must have occasionally crouched down in some corner of the hovel in which Thenardier dwelt , and have fallen a dreaming in the presence of this hideous masterpiece . 
After a momentary hesitation Bah ! he thought they will have time to make their escape . 
And he pursued his road , walking rapidly straight ahead , and with almost an air of certainty , with the sagacity of a fox scenting a covey of partridges . 
The brushwood was not high . 
Thenardier recognized the fact that the man and Cosette were sitting there . 
The child could not be seen on account of her small size , but the head of her doll was visible . 
The man was sitting there , and letting Cosette get somewhat rested . 
The inn keeper walked round the brushwood and presented himself abruptly to the eyes of those whom he was in search of . 
Pardon , excuse me , sir , he said , quite breathless , but here are your fifteen hundred francs . 
So saying , he handed the stranger the three bank bills . 
The man raised his eyes . 
What is the meaning of this ? Thenardier replied respectfully It means , sir , that I shall take back Cosette . 
Cosette shuddered , and pressed close to the old man . 
I will tell you I have considered the matter . 
In fact , I have not the right to give her to you . 
I am an honest man , you see this child does not belong to me she belongs to her mother . 
It was her mother who confided her to me I can only resign her to her mother . 
You will say to me , But her mother is dead . 
The man , without making any reply , fumbled in his pocket , and Thenardier beheld the pocket book of bank bills make its appearance once more . 
The tavern keeper shivered with joy . 
MONSIEUR THENARDIER You will deliver Cosette to this person . 
You will be paid for all the little things . 
I have the honor to salute you with respect , FANTINE . 
You know that signature ? resumed the man . 
It certainly was Fantine's signature Thenardier recognized it . 
Thenardier retreated in tolerably good order . 
This signature is fairly well imitated , he growled between his teeth however , let it go ! Then he essayed a desperate effort . 
It is well , sir , he said , since you are the person , but I must be paid for all those little things . 
A great deal is owing to me . 
In February , you sent her a bill of five hundred francs you received three hundred francs at the end of February , and three hundred francs at the beginning of March . 
Since then nine months have elapsed , at fifteen francs a month , the price agreed upon , which makes one hundred and thirty five francs . 
You had received one hundred francs too much that makes thirty five still owing you . 
I have just given you fifteen hundred francs . 
Thenardier's sensations were those of the wolf at the moment when he feels himself nipped and seized by the steel jaw of the trap . 
Who is this devil of a man ? he thought . 
He did what the wolf does he shook himself . 
Audacity had succeeded with him once . 
The stranger said tranquilly Come , Cosette . 
He took Cosette by his left hand , and with his right he picked up his cudgel , which was lying on the ground . 
Thenardier noted the enormous size of the cudgel and the solitude of the spot . 
The man plunged into the forest with the child , leaving the inn keeper motionless and speechless . 
While they were walking away , Thenardier scrutinized his huge shoulders , which were a little rounded , and his great fists . 
Then , bringing his eyes back to his own person , they fell upon his feeble arms and his thin hands . 
I want to know where he is going , said he , and he set out to follow them at a distance . 
Two things were left on his hands , an irony in the shape of the paper signed Fantine , and a consolation , the fifteen hundred francs . 
The man led Cosette off in the direction of Livry and Bondy . 
He walked slowly , with drooping head , in an attitude of reflection and sadness . 
The winter had thinned out the forest , so that Thenardier did not lose them from sight , although he kept at a good distance . 
The man turned round from time to time , and looked to see if he was being followed . 
All at once he caught sight of Thenardier . 
He plunged suddenly into the brushwood with Cosette , where they could both hide themselves . 
The deuce ! said Thenardier , and he redoubled his pace . 
The thickness of the undergrowth forced him to draw nearer to them . 
When the man had reached the densest part of the thicket , he wheeled round . 
It was in vain that Thenardier sought to conceal himself in the branches he could not prevent the man seeing him . 
The man cast upon him an uneasy glance , then elevated his head and continued his course . 
The inn keeper set out again in pursuit . 
Thus they continued for two or three hundred paces . 
All at once the man turned round once more he saw the inn keeper . 
This time he gazed at him with so sombre an air that Thenardier decided that it was useless to proceed further . 
CHAPTER XI NUMBER , REAPPEARS , AND COSETTE WINS IT IN THE LOTTERY Jean Valjean was not dead . 
When he fell into the sea , or rather , when he threw himself into it , he was not ironed , as we have seen . 
He swam under water until he reached a vessel at anchor , to which a boat was moored . 
He found means of hiding himself in this boat until night . 
At night he swam off again , and reached the shore a little way from Cape Brun . 
There , as he did not lack money , he procured clothing . 
A small country house in the neighborhood of Balaguier was at that time the dressing room of escaped convicts , a lucrative specialty . 
Then Jean Valjean , like all the sorry fugitives who are seeking to evade the vigilance of the law and social fatality , pursued an obscure and undulating itinerary . 
He found his first refuge at Pradeaux , near Beausset . 
Then he directed his course towards Grand Villard , near Briancon , in the Hautes Alpes . 
It was a fumbling and uneasy flight , a mole's track , whose branchings are untraceable . 
We have just seen him at Montfermeil . 
His first care on arriving in Paris had been to buy mourning clothes for a little girl of from seven to eight years of age then to procure a lodging . 
That done , he had betaken himself to Montfermeil . 
However , he was thought to be dead , and this still further increased the obscurity which had gathered about him . 
At Paris , one of the journals which chronicled the fact fell into his hands . 
He felt reassured and almost at peace , as though he had really been dead . 
On the evening of the day when Jean Valjean rescued Cosette from the claws of the Thenardiers , he returned to Paris . 
He re entered it at nightfall , with the child , by way of the Barrier Monceaux . 
There he entered a cabriolet , which took him to the esplanade of the Observatoire . 
The day had been strange and filled with emotions for Cosette . 
They had eaten some bread and cheese purchased in isolated taverns , behind hedges they had changed carriages frequently they had travelled short distances on foot . 
She made no complaint , but she was weary , and Jean Valjean perceived it by the way she dragged more and more on his hand as she walked . 
He took her on his back . 
Cosette , without letting go of Catherine , laid her head on Jean Valjean's shoulder , and there fell asleep . 
It was the old quarter of the Marche aux Chevaux . 
It presented its side and gable to the public road hence its apparent diminutiveness . 
Nearly the whole of the house was hidden . 
Only the door and one window could be seen . 
This hovel was only one story high . 
The door was nothing but a collection of worm eaten planks roughly bound together by cross beams which resembled roughly hewn logs . 
Where was one ? Above the door it said , Number the inside replied , no , Number . 
No one knows what dust colored figures were suspended like draperies from the triangular opening . 
And the blinds , dislocated and unpasted , threatened passers by rather than screened the occupants . 
The horizontal slats were missing here and there and had been naively replaced with boards nailed on perpendicularly so that what began as a blind ended as a shutter . 
The staircase led to a very vast edifice which resembled a shed which had been converted into a house . 
These chambers received their light from the vague waste grounds in the neighborhood . 
All this was dark , disagreeable , wan , melancholy , sepulchral traversed according as the crevices lay in the roof or in the door , by cold rays or by icy winds . 
An interesting and picturesque peculiarity of this sort of dwelling is the enormous size of the spiders . 
A portion of this building has recently been demolished . 
From what still remains of it one can form a judgment as to what it was in former days . 
As a whole , it was not over a hundred years old . 
A hundred years is youth in a church and age in a house . 
It seems as though man's lodging partook of his ephemeral character , and God's house of his eternity . 
The postmen called the house Number but it was known in the neighborhood as the Gorbeau house . 
Let us explain whence this appellation was derived . 
The two names had been forestalled by La Fontaine . 
The opportunity was too fine for the lawyers they made the most of it . 
Lawyer Corbeau , perched on a docket , held in his beak a writ of execution Lawyer Renard , attracted by the smell , addressed him nearly as follows , etc . 
Their petition was presented to Louis XV . 
By the kings command , Maitre Corbeau was permitted to add a tail to his initial letter and to call himself Gorbeau . 
Now , according to local tradition , this Maitre Gorbeau had been the proprietor of the building numbered on the Boulevard de l'Hopital . 
He was even the author of the monumental window . 
Hence the edifice bore the name of the Gorbeau house . 
An odor of copperas issued in puffs from the roofs of the neighboring factory . 
The barrier was close at hand . 
In the city wall was still in existence . 
This barrier itself evoked gloomy fancies in the mind . 
It was the road to Bicetre . 
It was through it that , under the Empire and the Restoration , prisoners condemned to death re entered Paris on the day of their execution . 
Take a few steps , and you come upon that fatal Rue Croulebarbe , where Ulbach stabbed the goat girl of Ivry to the sound of thunder , as in the melodramas . 
Bourgeois houses only began to spring up there twenty five years later . 
Not an unevenness of the ground , not a caprice in the architecture , not a fold . 
The ensemble was glacial , regular , hideous . 
Nothing oppresses the heart like symmetry . 
It is because symmetry is ennui , and ennui is at the very foundation of grief . 
Something more terrible than a hell where one suffers may be imagined , and that is a hell where one is bored . 
If such a hell existed , that bit of the Boulevard de l'Hopital might have formed the entrance to it . 
The black lines sink inwards and are lost in the shades , like morsels of the infinite . 
The passer by cannot refrain from recalling the innumerable traditions of the place which are connected with the gibbet . 
The solitude of this spot , where so many crimes have been committed , had something terrible about it . 
In summer , at twilight , one saw , here and there , a few old women seated at the foot of the elm , on benches mouldy with rain . 
These good old women were fond of begging . 
However , this quarter , which had a superannuated rather than an antique air , was tending even then to transformation . 
Even at that time any one who was desirous of seeing it had to make haste . 
Each day some detail of the whole effect was disappearing . 
For the last twenty years the station of the Orleans railway has stood beside the old faubourg and distracted it , as it does to day . 
Wherever it is placed on the borders of a capital , a railway station is the death of a suburb and the birth of a city . 
The old houses crumble and new ones rise . 
The symptoms of a new life are evident . 
CHAPTER II A NEST FOR OWL AND A WARBLER It was in front of this Gorbeau house that Jean Valjean halted . 
Like wild birds , he had chosen this desert place to construct his nest . 
At the top of the stairs he drew from his pocket another key , with which he opened another door . 
A lantern on the boulevard cast a vague light into this poor room . 
At the extreme end there was a dressing room with a folding bed Jean Valjean carried the child to this bed and laid her down there without waking her . 
He struck a match and lighted a candle . 
Jean Valjean bent down and kissed that child's hand . 
Nine months before he had kissed the hand of the mother , who had also just fallen asleep . 
The same sad , piercing , religious sentiment filled his heart . 
He knelt beside Cosette's bed . 
lt was broad daylight , and the child still slept . 
A wan ray of the December sun penetrated the window of the attic and lay upon the ceiling in long threads of light and shade . 
Ah ! mon Dieu , my broom ! said she . 
She opened her eyes wide now , and beheld the smiling countenance of Jean Valjean . 
Ah ! so it is true ! said the child . 
Children accept joy and happiness instantly and familiarly , being themselves by nature joy and happiness . 
Cosette caught sight of Catherine at the foot of her bed , and took possession of her , and , as she played , she put a hundred questions to Jean Valjean . 
Where was she ? Was Paris very large ? Was Madame Thenardier very far away ? Was she to go back ? etc . 
All at once she exclaimed , How pretty it is here ! It was a frightful hole , but she felt free . 
Must I sweep ? she resumed at last . 
Play ! said Jean Valjean . 
Cosette , without troubling herself to understand anything , was inexpressibly happy with that doll and that kind man . 
Some new thing had come into his soul . 
Jean Valjean had never loved anything for twenty five years he had been alone in the world . 
He had never been father , lover , husband , friend . 
In the prison he had been vicious , gloomy , chaste , ignorant , and shy . 
The heart of that ex convict was full of virginity . 
Human nature is made thus the other tender emotions of his youth , if he had ever had any , had fallen into an abyss . 
When he saw Cosette , when he had taken possession of her , carried her off , and delivered her , he felt his heart moved within him . 
All the passion and affection within him awoke , and rushed towards that child . 
He approached the bed , where she lay sleeping , and trembled with joy . 
It was the second white apparition which he had encountered . 
The Bishop had caused the dawn of virtue to rise on his horizon Cosette caused the dawn of love to rise . 
The early days passed in this dazzled state . 
Like all children , who resemble young shoots of the vine , which cling to everything , she had tried to love she had not succeeded . 
All had repulsed her , the Thenardiers , their children , other children . 
She had loved the dog , and he had died , after which nothing and nobody would have anything to do with her . 
It is a sad thing to say , and we have already intimated it , that , at eight years of age , her heart was cold . 
It was not her fault it was not the faculty of loving that she lacked alas ! it was the possibility . 
Thus , from the very first day , all her sentient and thinking powers loved this kind man . 
She felt that which she had never felt before a sensation of expansion . 
The man no longer produced on her the effect of being old or poor she thought Jean Valjean handsome , just as she thought the hovel pretty . 
These are the effects of the dawn , of childhood , of joy . 
The novelty of the earth and of life counts for something here . 
Nothing is so charming as the coloring reflection of happiness on a garret . 
We all have in our past a delightful garret . 
Nature , a difference of fifty years , had set a profound gulf between Jean Valjean and Cosette destiny filled in this gulf . 
Destiny suddenly united and wedded with its irresistible power these two uprooted existences , differing in age , alike in sorrow . 
One , in fact , completed the other . 
Cosette's instinct sought a father , as Jean Valjean's instinct sought a child . 
To meet was to find each other . 
At the mysterious moment when their hands touched , they were welded together . 
When these two souls perceived each other , they recognized each other as necessary to each other , and embraced each other closely . 
The entrance of that man into the destiny of that child had been the advent of God . 
Moreover , Jean Valjean had chosen his refuge well . 
There he seemed perfectly secure . 
The chamber with a dressing room , which he occupied with Cosette , was the one whose window opened on the boulevard . 
This being the only window in the house , no neighbors' glances were to be feared from across the way or at the side . 
The ground floor of Number , a sort of dilapidated penthouse , served as a wagon house for market gardeners , and no communication existed between it and the first story . 
It was separated by the flooring , which had neither traps nor stairs , and which formed the diaphragm of the building , as it were . 
He had represented himself to her as a gentleman of means who had been ruined by Spanish bonds , who was coming there to live with his little daughter . 
He had paid her six months in advance , and had commissioned the old woman to furnish the chamber and dressing room , as we have seen . 
It was this good woman who had lighted the fire in the stove , and prepared everything on the evening of their arrival . 
Week followed week these two beings led a happy life in that hovel . 
Cosette laughed , chattered , and sang from daybreak . 
Children have their morning song as well as birds . 
It sometimes happened that Jean Valjean clasped her tiny red hand , all cracked with chilblains , and kissed it . 
The poor child , who was used to being beaten , did not know the meaning of this , and ran away in confusion . 
At times she became serious and stared at her little black gown . 
Cosette was no longer in rags she was in mourning . 
She had emerged from misery , and she was entering into life . 
Jean Valjean had undertaken to teach her to read . 
Sometimes , as he made the child spell , he remembered that it was with the idea of doing evil that he had learned to read in prison . 
This idea had ended in teaching a child to read . 
Then the ex convict smiled with the pensive smile of the angels . 
He felt in it a premeditation from on high , the will of some one who was not man , and he became absorbed in revery . 
Good thoughts have their abysses as well as evil ones . 
To teach Cosette to read , and to let her play , this constituted nearly the whole of Jean Valjean's existence . 
And then he talked of her mother , and he made her pray . 
She called him father , and knew no other name for him . 
He passed hours in watching her dressing and undressing her doll , and in listening to her prattle . 
He saw a whole future stretching out before him , illuminated by Cosette as by a charming light . 
The best of us are not exempt from egotistical thoughts . 
At times , he reflected with a sort of joy that she would be ugly . 
Who knows whether Jean Valjean had not been on the eve of growing discouraged and of falling once more ? He loved and grew strong again . 
Alas ! he walked with no less indecision than Cosette . 
He protected her , and she strengthened him . 
Thanks to him , she could walk through life thanks to her , he could continue in virtue . 
He was that child's stay , and she was his prop . 
Oh , unfathomable and divine mystery of the balances of destiny ! CHAPTER IV THE REMARKS OF THE PRINCIPAL TENANT Jean Valjean was prudent enough never to go out by day . 
He liked to go to Saint Medard , which is the nearest church . 
When he did not take Cosette with him , she remained with the old woman but the child's delight was to go out with the good man . 
She preferred an hour with him to all her rapturous tete a tetes with Catherine . 
He held her hand as they walked , and said sweet things to her . 
It turned out that Cosette was a very gay little person . 
The old woman attended to the housekeeping and cooking and went to market . 
They lived soberly , always having a little fire , but like people in very moderate circumstances . 
Jean Valjean had made no alterations in the furniture as it was the first day he had merely had the glass door leading to Cosette's dressing room replaced by a solid door . 
He still wore his yellow coat , his black breeches , and his old hat . 
In the street , he was taken for a poor man . 
It sometimes happened that kind hearted women turned back to bestow a sou on him . 
Jean Valjean accepted the sou with a deep bow . 
He began to be known in the neighborhood under the name of the beggar who gives alms . 
She was a little deaf , which rendered her talkative . 
There remained to her from her past , two teeth , one above , the other below , which she was continually knocking against each other . 
She had questioned Cosette , who had not been able to tell her anything , since she knew nothing herself except that she had come from Montfermeil . 
One morning , this spy saw Jean Valjean , with an air which struck the old gossip as peculiar , entering one of the uninhabited compartments of the hovel . 
She followed him with the step of an old cat , and was able to observe him without being seen , through a crack in the door , which was directly opposite him . 
Jean Valjean had his back turned towards this door , by way of greater security , no doubt . 
The old woman recognized , with terror , the fact that it was a bank bill for a thousand francs . 
It was the second or third only that she had seen in the course of her existence . 
Where ? thought the old woman . 
He did not go out until six o'clock in the evening , and the government bank certainly is not open at that hour . 
The old woman went to get the bill changed , and mentioned her surmises . 
That thousand franc note , commented on and multiplied , produced a vast amount of terrified discussion among the gossips of the Rue des Vignes Saint Marcel . 
A few days later , it chanced that Jean Valjean was sawing some wood , in his shirt sleeves , in the corridor . 
The old woman was in the chamber , putting things in order . 
Cosette was occupied in admiring the wood as it was sawed . 
The old woman caught sight of the coat hanging on a nail , and examined it . 
The lining had been sewed up again . 
The good woman felt of it carefully , and thought she observed in the skirts and revers thicknesses of paper . 
More thousand franc bank bills , no doubt ! She also noticed that there were all sorts of things in the pockets . 
Each pocket of this coat had the air of being in a manner provided against unexpected accidents . 
Thus the inhabitants of the house reached the last days of winter . 
He never passed this man without giving him a few sous . 
Sometimes he spoke to him . 
Those who envied this mendicant said that he belonged to the police . 
He was an ex beadle of seventy five , who was constantly mumbling his prayers . 
The man seemed engaged in prayer , according to his custom , and was much bent over . 
Jean Valjean stepped up to him and placed his customary alms in his hand . 
The mendicant raised his eyes suddenly , stared intently at Jean Valjean , then dropped his head quickly . 
This movement was like a flash of lightning . 
Jean Valjean was seized with a shudder . 
He experienced the same impression that one would have on finding one's self , all of a sudden , face to face , in the dark , with a tiger . 
At this strange moment , an instinct possibly the mysterious instinct of self preservation , restrained Jean Valjean from uttering a word . 
The beggar had the same figure , the same rags , the same appearance as he had every day . 
Bah ! said Jean Valjean , I am mad ! I am dreaming ! Impossible ! And he returned profoundly troubled . 
He hardly dared to confess , even to himself , that the face which he thought he had seen was the face of Javert . 
That night , on thinking the matter over , he regretted not having questioned the man , in order to force him to raise his head a second time . 
On the following day , at nightfall , he went back . 
The beggar was at his post . 
Good day , my good man , said Jean Valjean , resolutely , handing him a sou . 
The beggar raised his head , and replied in a whining voice , Thanks , my good sir . 
It was unmistakably the ex beadle . 
Jean Valjean felt completely reassured . 
How the deuce could I have thought that I saw Javert there ? he thought . 
Am I going to lose my eyesight now ? And he thought no more about it . 
This struck him as singular . 
The old woman , who was the only inhabitant of the house except himself , always went to bed at nightfall , so that she might not burn out her candles . 
Jean Valjean made a sign to Cosette to be quiet . 
He heard some one ascending the stairs . 
It might possibly be the old woman , who might have fallen ill and have been out to the apothecary's . 
Nevertheless , Jean Valjean blew out his candle . 
He had sent Cosette to bed , saying to her in a low voice , Get into bed very softly and as he kissed her brow , the steps paused . 
Jean Valjean remained silent , motionless , with his back towards the door , seated on the chair from which he had not stirred , and holding his breath in the dark . 
This light formed a sort of sinister star in the blackness of the door and the wall . 
There was evidently some one there , who was holding a candle in his hand and listening . 
Several minutes elapsed thus , and the light retreated . 
But he heard no sound of footsteps , which seemed to indicate that the person who had been listening at the door had removed his shoes . 
Jean Valjean threw himself , all dressed as he was , on his bed , and could not close his eyes all night . 
It was a man , in fact , who passed , this time without pausing , in front of Jean Valjean's chamber . 
The man was of lofty stature , clad in a long frock coat , with a cudgel under his arm . 
The formidable neck and shoulders belonged to Javert . 
Jean Valjean might have attempted to catch another glimpse of him through his window opening on the boulevard , but he would have been obliged to open the window he dared not . 
It was evident that this man had entered with a key , and like himself . 
The good woman appeared as usual . 
That is true , by the way , he replied , in the most natural tone possible . 
Who was it ? It was a new lodger who has come into the house , said the old woman . 
And what is his name ? I don't know exactly Dumont , or Daumont , or some name of that sort . 
And who is this Monsieur Dumont ? The old woman gazed at him with her little polecat eyes , and answered A gentleman of property , like yourself . 
Perhaps she had no ulterior meaning . 
Jean Valjean thought he perceived one . 
When the old woman had taken her departure , he did up a hundred francs which he had in a cupboard , into a roll , and put it in his pocket . 
When darkness came on , he descended and carefully scrutinized both sides of the boulevard . 
The boulevard appeared to be absolutely deserted . 
It is true that a person can conceal himself behind trees . 
He went up stairs again . 
He took her by the hand , and they both went out . 
The author of this book , who regrets the necessity of mentioning himself , has been absent from Paris for many years . 
Paris has been transformed since he quitted it . 
A new city has arisen , which is , after a fashion , unknown to him . 
There is no need for him to say that he loves Paris Paris is his mind's natal city . 
In consequence of demolitions and reconstructions , the Paris of his youth , that Paris which he bore away religiously in his memory , is now a Paris of days gone by . 
He must be permitted to speak of that Paris as though it still existed . 
Readers may verify the facts if they care to take the trouble . 
For his own part , he is unacquainted with the new Paris , and he writes with the old Paris before his eyes in an illusion which is precious to him . 
May we , then , be permitted to speak of the past in the present ? That said , we beg the reader to take note of it , and we continue . 
This manoeuvre is peculiar to the hunted stag . 
In venery this is called false re imbushment . 
The moon was full that night . 
Jean Valjean was not sorry for this . 
The moon , still very close to the horizon , cast great masses of light and shadow in the streets . 
Jean Valjean could glide along close to the houses on the dark side , and yet keep watch on the light side . 
He did not , perhaps , take sufficiently into consideration the fact that the dark side escaped him . 
Still , in the deserted lanes which lie near the Rue Poliveau , he thought he felt certain that no one was following him . 
Cosette walked on without asking any questions . 
The sufferings of the first six years of her life had instilled something passive into her nature . 
And then she was with him , and she felt safe . 
Jean Valjean knew no more where he was going than did Cosette . 
He trusted in God , as she trusted in him . 
It seemed as though he also were clinging to the hand of some one greater than himself he thought he felt a being leading him , though invisible . 
However , he had no settled idea , no plan , no project . 
He was not even absolutely sure that it was Javert , and then it might have been Javert , without Javert knowing that he was Jean Valjean . 
Was not he disguised ? Was not he believed to be dead ? Still , queer things had been going on for several days . 
He wanted no more of them . 
He was determined not to return to the Gorbeau house . 
Like the wild animal chased from its lair , he was seeking a hole in which he might hide until he could find one where he might dwell . 
There are lodging houses in this locality , but he did not even enter one , finding nothing which suited him . 
He had no doubt that if any one had chanced to be upon his track , they would have lost it . 
As eleven o'clock struck from Saint Etienne du Mont , he was traversing the Rue de Pontoise , in front of the office of the commissary of police , situated at No. . 
A few moments later , the instinct of which we have spoken above made him turn round . 
One of the three entered the alley leading to the commissary's house . 
The one who marched at their head struck him as decidedly suspicious . 
Come , child , he said to Cosette and he made haste to quit the Rue Pontoise . 
At that time there was a square formed by the intersection of streets , where the College Rollin stands to day , and where the Rue Neuve Sainte Genevieve turns off . 
In the thirteenth century this Rue des Postes was inhabited by potters , and its real name is Rue des Pots . 
The moon cast a livid light into this open space . 
In point of fact , three minutes had not elapsed when the men made their appearance . 
There were four of them now . 
All were tall , dressed in long , brown coats , with round hats , and huge cudgels in their hands . 
Their great stature and their vast fists rendered them no less alarming than did their sinister stride through the darkness . 
One would have pronounced them four spectres disguised as bourgeois . 
They halted in the middle of the space and formed a group , like men in consultation . 
They had an air of indecision . 
At the moment when the first man wheeled round , the moon fell full in his face . 
Jean Valjean recognized Javert perfectly . 
CHAPTER II IT IS LUCKY THAT THE PONT D'AUSTERLITZ BEARS CARRIAGES Uncertainty was at an end for Jean Valjean fortunately it still lasted for the men . 
He took advantage of their hesitation . 
It was time lost for them , but gained for him . 
He slipped from under the gate where he had concealed himself , and went down the Rue des Postes , towards the region of the Jardin des Plantes . 
Cosette was beginning to be tired . 
He took her in his arms and carried her . 
There were no passers by , and the street lanterns had not been lighted on account of there being a moon . 
A tout venant le Coeur vend des Carreaux . 
This is the factory of Goblet Junior Come choose your jugs and crocks , Flower pots , pipes , bricks . 
The Heart sells Diamonds to every comer . 
He left behind him the Rue de la Clef , then the Fountain Saint Victor , skirted the Jardin des Plantes by the lower streets , and reached the quay . 
There was no one behind him . 
He drew a long breath . 
He gained the Pont d'Austerlitz . 
Tolls were still collected there at that epoch . 
He presented himself at the toll office and handed over a sou . 
It is two sous , said the old soldier in charge of the bridge . 
You are carrying a child who can walk . 
He paid , vexed that his passage should have aroused remark . 
Every flight should be an imperceptible slipping away . 
A heavy cart was crossing the Seine at the same time as himself , and on its way , like him , to the right bank . 
This was of use to him . 
He could traverse the bridge in the shadow of the cart . 
Towards the middle of the Bridge , Cosette , whose feet were benumbed , wanted to walk . 
He set her on the ground and took her hand again . 
The bridge once crossed , he perceived some timber yards on his right . 
He directed his course thither . 
In order to reach them , it was necessary to risk himself in a tolerably large unsheltered and illuminated space . 
Those who were on his track had evidently lost the scent , and Jean Valjean believed himself to be out of danger . 
Hunted , yes followed , no . 
A little street , the Rue du Chemin Vert Saint Antoine , opened out between two timber yards enclosed in walls . 
This street was dark and narrow and seemed made expressly for him . 
Before entering it he cast a glance behind him , From the point where he stood he could see the whole extent of the Pont d'Austerlitz . 
Four shadows were just entering on the bridge . 
These shadows had their backs turned to the Jardin des Plantes and were on their way to the right bank . 
These four shadows were the four men . 
Jean Valjean shuddered like the wild beast which is recaptured . 
It seemed to him that he might commit himself to that silent little street . 
CHAPTER III TO WIT , THE PLAN OF PARIS IN Three hundred paces further on , he arrived at a point where the street forked . 
It separated into two streets , which ran in a slanting line , one to the right , and the other to the left . 
Jean Valjean had before him what resembled the two branches of a Y. Which should he choose ? He did not hesitate , but took the one on the right . 
However , they no longer walked very fast . 
Cosette's pace retarded Jean Valjean's . 
He took her up and carried her again . 
Cosette laid her head on the shoulder of the good man and said not a word . 
He turned round from time to time and looked behind him . 
He took care to keep always on the dark side of the street . 
The street was straight in his rear . 
The first two or three times that he turned round he saw nothing the silence was profound , and he continued his march somewhat reassured . 
He rushed forward precipitately rather than walked , hoping to find some side street , to make his escape through it , and thus to break his scent once more . 
He arrived at a wall . 
This wall , however , did not absolutely prevent further progress it was a wall which bordered a transverse street , in which the one he had taken ended . 
Here again , he was obliged to come to a decision should he go to the right or to the left . 
He glanced to the right . 
The fragmentary lane was prolonged between buildings which were either sheds or barns , then ended at a blind alley . 
The extremity of the cul de sac was distinctly visible , a lofty white wall . 
He glanced to the left . 
On that side the lane was open , and about two hundred paces further on , ran into a street of which it was the affluent . 
On that side lay safety . 
It was some one , a man , who had evidently just been posted there , and who was barring the passage and waiting . 
The market gardens , the timber yards , and the old buildings have been effaced . 
The memory of the populace hovers over these relics of the past . 
The roads were not much paved the streets were not much built up . 
With the exception of the two or three streets , of which we shall presently speak , all was wall and solitude there . 
Not a shop , not a vehicle , hardly a candle lighted here and there in the windows all lights extinguished after ten o'clock . 
Gardens , convents , timber yards , marshes occasional lowly dwellings and great walls as high as the houses . 
Such was this quarter in the last century . 
The Revolution snubbed it soundly . 
The republican government demolished and cut through it . 
Rubbish shoots were established there . 
Thirty years ago , this quarter was disappearing under the erasing process of new buildings . 
To day , it has been utterly blotted out . 
The two limbs of the Y were connected at the apex as by a bar this bar was called Rue Droit Mur . 
The Rue Polonceau ended there Rue Petit Picpus passed on , and ascended towards the Lenoir market . 
It was here that Jean Valjean stood . 
As we have just said , on catching sight of that black silhouette standing on guard at the angle of the Rue Droit Mur and the Rue Petit Picpus , he recoiled . 
There could be no doubt of it . 
That phantom was lying in wait for him . 
What was he to do ? The time for retreating was passed . 
That which he had perceived in movement an instant before , in the distant darkness , was Javert and his squad without a doubt . 
Javert was probably already at the commencement of the street at whose end Jean Valjean stood . 
Javert , to all appearances , was acquainted with this little labyrinth , and had taken his precautions by sending one of his men to guard the exit . 
These surmises , which so closely resembled proofs , whirled suddenly , like a handful of dust caught up by an unexpected gust of wind , through Jean Valjean's mournful brain . 
He examined the Cul de Sac Genrot there he was cut off . 
He examined the Rue Petit Picpus there stood a sentinel . 
Jean Valjean felt himself caught , as in a net , which was slowly contracting he gazed heavenward in despair . 
There , at the angle of which we have spoken , it descended to such a degree that it consisted of merely a wall . 
This gable was sombre of aspect only one window was visible , or , to speak more correctly , two shutters covered with a sheet of zinc and kept constantly closed . 
At one side there was a carriage gate of the ordinary dimensions , and which had evidently not been cut more than fifty years previously . 
A linden tree showed its crest above the niche , and the wall was covered with ivy on the side of the Rue Polonceau . 
In the imminent peril in which Jean Valjean found himself , this sombre building had about it a solitary and uninhabited look which tempted him . 
He ran his eyes rapidly over it he said to himself , that if he could contrive to get inside it , he might save himself . 
First he conceived an idea , then a hope . 
In the central portion of the front of this building , on the Rue Droit Mur side , there were at all the windows of the different stories ancient cistern pipes of lead . 
The various branches of the pipes which led from one central pipe to all these little basins sketched out a sort of tree on the front . 
These ramifications of pipes with their hundred elbows imitated those old leafless vine stocks which writhe over the fronts of old farm houses . 
This odd espalier , with its branches of lead and iron , was the first thing that struck Jean Valjean . 
He seated Cosette with her back against a stone post , with an injunction to be silent , and ran to the spot where the conduit touched the pavement . 
Perhaps there was some way of climbing up by it and entering the house . 
But the pipe was dilapidated and past service , and hardly hung to its fastenings . 
Moreover , all the windows of this silent dwelling were grated with heavy iron bars , even the attic windows in the roof . 
And then , the moon fell full upon that facade , and the man who was watching at the corner of the street would have seen Jean Valjean in the act of climbing . 
When he reached the slant of the wall where he had left Cosette , he noticed that no one could see him there . 
As we have just explained , he was concealed from all eyes , no matter from which direction they were approaching besides this , he was in the shadow . 
Finally , there were two doors perhaps they might be forced . 
Time was passing he must act quickly . 
He felt over the carriage door , and immediately recognized the fact that it was impracticable outside and in . 
It seemed as though it might be possible to pierce this worm eaten barrier . 
Through the crevices in the planks he caught a view of unhewn slabs and blocks of stone roughly cemented together , which passers by might still have seen there ten years ago . 
He was forced to acknowledge with consternation that this apparent door was simply the wooden decoration of a building against which it was placed . 
It was easy to tear off a plank but then , one found one's self face to face with a wall . 
CHAPTER V WHICH WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE WITH GAS LANTERNS At that moment a heavy and measured sound began to be audible at some distance . 
Jean Valjean risked a glance round the corner of the street . 
Seven or eight soldiers , drawn up in a platoon , had just debouched into the Rue Polonceau . 
He saw the gleam of their bayonets . 
They were advancing towards him these soldiers , at whose head he distinguished Javert's tall figure , advanced slowly and cautiously . 
They halted frequently it was plain that they were searching all the nooks of the walls and all the embrasures of the doors and alleys . 
This was some patrol that Javert had encountered there could be no mistake as to this surmise and whose aid he had demanded . 
Javert's two acolytes were marching in their ranks . 
It was a frightful moment . 
A few minutes only separated Jean Valjean from that terrible precipice which yawned before him for the third time . 
And the galleys now meant not only the galleys , but Cosette lost to him forever that is to say , a life resembling the interior of a tomb . 
There was but one thing which was possible . 
He rummaged in the one or the other , according to circumstances . 
Jean Valjean measured with his eyes the wall above which he espied the linden it was about eighteen feet in height . 
This practice of filling up corners of the wall is much in use in Paris . 
This mass was about five feet in height the space above the summit of this mass which it was necessary to climb was not more than fourteen feet . 
The wall was surmounted by a flat stone without a coping . 
Cosette was the difficulty , for she did not know how to climb a wall . 
Should he abandon her ? Jean Valjean did not once think of that . 
It was impossible to carry her . 
A man's whole strength is required to successfully carry out these singular ascents . 
The least burden would disturb his centre of gravity and pull him downwards . 
A rope would have been required Jean Valjean had none . 
All extreme situations have their lightning flashes which sometimes dazzle , sometimes illuminate us . 
Jean Valjean's despairing glance fell on the street lantern post of the blind alley Genrot . 
At that epoch there were no gas jets in the streets of Paris . 
These gloomy inventors of expedients work rapidly when they are fighting against fatality . 
We have already explained that the lanterns had not been lighted that night . 
Nevertheless , the hour , the place , the darkness , Jean Valjean's absorption , his singular gestures , his goings and comings , all had begun to render Cosette uneasy . 
Any other child than she would have given vent to loud shrieks long before . 
She contented herself with plucking Jean Valjean by the skirt of his coat . 
They could hear the sound of the patrol's approach ever more and more distinctly . 
Father , said she , in a very low voice , I am afraid . 
Who is coming yonder ? Hush ! replied the unhappy man it is Madame Thenardier . 
If you cry out , if you weep , the Thenardier is lying in wait for you . 
She is coming to take you back . 
Half a minute had not elapsed when he was resting on his knees on the wall . 
Cosette gazed at him in stupid amazement , without uttering a word . 
Jean Valjean's injunction , and the name of Madame Thenardier , had chilled her blood . 
All at once she heard Jean Valjean's voice crying to her , though in a very low tone Put your back against the wall . 
Don't say a word , and don't be alarmed , went on Jean Valjean . 
And she felt herself lifted from the ground . 
Before she had time to recover herself , she was on the top of the wall . 
A lucky circumstance , for the wall was much higher on this side than on the street side . 
Jean Valjean could only see the ground at a great depth below him . 
He had just reached the slope of the roof , and had not yet left the crest of the wall , when a violent uproar announced the arrival of the patrol . 
The thundering voice of Javert was audible Search the blind alley ! The Rue Droit Mur is guarded ! so is the Rue Petit Picpus . 
I'll answer for it that he is in the blind alley . 
The soldiers rushed into the Genrot alley . 
Jean Valjean allowed himself to slide down the roof , still holding fast to Cosette , reached the linden tree , and leaped to the ground . 
Whether from terror or courage , Cosette had not breathed a sound , though her hands were a little abraded . 
Here and there stood stone benches which seemed black with moss . 
The alleys were bordered with gloomy and very erect little shrubs . 
The grass had half taken possession of them , and a green mould covered the rest . 
The building was a sort of ruin , where dismantled chambers were distinguishable , one of which , much encumbered , seemed to serve as a shed . 
The large building of the Rue Droit Mur , which had a wing on the Rue Petit Picpus , turned two facades , at right angles , towards this garden . 
These interior facades were even more tragic than the exterior . 
All the windows were grated . 
Not a gleam of light was visible at any one of them . 
The upper story had scuttles like prisons . 
One of those facades cast its shadow on the other , which fell over the garden like an immense black pall . 
No other house was visible . 
The bottom of the garden was lost in mist and darkness . 
Nevertheless , walls could be confusedly made out , which intersected as though there were more cultivated land beyond , and the low roofs of the Rue Polonceau . 
Nothing more wild and solitary than this garden could be imagined . 
Jean Valjean's first care had been to get hold of his shoes and put them on again , then to step under the shed with Cosette . 
A man who is fleeing never thinks himself sufficiently hidden . 
The child , whose thoughts were still on the Thenardier , shared his instinct for withdrawing from sight as much as possible . 
Cosette trembled and pressed close to him . 
At the expiration of a quarter of an hour it seemed as though that species of stormy roar were becoming more distant . 
Jean Valjean held his breath . 
He had laid his hand lightly on Cosette's mouth . 
It seemed as though those walls had been built of the deaf stones of which the Scriptures speak . 
All at once , in the midst of this profound calm , a fresh sound arose a sound as celestial , divine , ineffable , ravishing , as the other had been horrible . 
This song proceeded from the gloomy edifice which towered above the garden . 
At the moment when the hubbub of demons retreated , one would have said that a choir of angels was approaching through the gloom . 
Cosette and Jean Valjean fell on their knees . 
These voices had this strange characteristic , that they did not prevent the building from seeming to be deserted . 
It was a supernatural chant in an uninhabited house . 
While these voices were singing , Jean Valjean thought of nothing . 
He no longer beheld the night he beheld a blue sky . 
It seemed to him that he felt those wings which we all have within us , unfolding . 
It may have lasted a long time . 
Jean Valjean could not have told . 
Hours of ecstasy are never more than a moment . 
There was no longer anything in the street there was nothing in the garden . 
That which had menaced , that which had reassured him , all had vanished . 
The breeze swayed a few dry weeds on the crest of the wall , and they gave out a faint , sweet , melancholy sound . 
CHAPTER VII CONTINUATION OF THE ENIGMA The night wind had risen , which indicated that it must be between one and two o'clock in the morning . 
As she had seated herself beside him and leaned her head against him , Jean Valjean had fancied that she was asleep . 
He bent down and looked at her . 
Cosette's eyes were wide open , and her thoughtful air pained Jean Valjean . 
Are you sleepy ? said Jean Valjean . 
I am very cold , she replied . 
A moment later she resumed Is she still there ? Who ? said Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean had already forgotten the means which he had employed to make Cosette keep silent . 
Ah ! said he , she is gone . 
You need fear nothing further . 
The child sighed as though a load had been lifted from her breast . 
The ground was damp , the shed open on all sides , the breeze grew more keen every instant . 
The goodman took off his coat and wrapped it round Cosette . 
Are you less cold now ? said he . 
Oh , yes , father . 
Well , wait for me a moment . 
I will soon be back . 
He quitted the ruin and crept along the large building , seeking a better shelter . 
He came across doors , but they were closed . 
There were bars at all the windows of the ground floor . 
Just after he had turned the inner angle of the edifice , he observed that he was coming to some arched windows , where he perceived a light . 
He stood on tiptoe and peeped through one of these windows . 
They all opened on a tolerably vast hall , paved with large flagstones , cut up by arcades and pillars , where only a tiny light and great shadows were visible . 
The light came from a taper which was burning in one corner . 
The apartment was deserted , and nothing was stirring in it . 
Nevertheless , by dint of gazing intently he thought he perceived on the ground something which appeared to be covered with a winding sheet , and which resembled a human form . 
This form was lying face downward , flat on the pavement , with the arms extended in the form of a cross , in the immobility of death . 
One would have said , judging from a sort of serpent which undulated over the floor , that this sinister form had a rope round its neck . 
The whole chamber was bathed in that mist of places which are sparely illuminated , which adds to horror . 
It was alarming to suppose that that thing was perhaps dead and still more alarming to think that it was perhaps alive . 
He had the courage to plaster his face to the glass , and to watch whether the thing would move . 
In spite of his remaining thus what seemed to him a very long time , the outstretched form made no movement . 
All at once he felt himself overpowered by an inexpressible terror , and he fled . 
He began to run towards the shed , not daring to look behind him . 
It seemed to him , that if he turned his head , he should see that form following him with great strides and waving its arms . 
He reached the ruin all out of breath . 
His knees were giving way beneath him the perspiration was pouring from him . 
Cold , anxiety , uneasiness , the emotions of the night , had given him a genuine fever , and all these ideas were clashing together in his brain . 
He stepped up to Cosette . 
CHAPTER VIII THE ENIGMA BECOMES DOUBLY MYSTERIOUS The child had laid her head on a stone and fallen asleep . 
He sat down beside her and began to think . 
Little by little , as he gazed at her , he grew calm and regained possession of his freedom of mind . 
He was not even conscious that he was very cold , since he had taken off his coat to cover her . 
Nevertheless , athwart this revery into which he had fallen he had heard for some time a peculiar noise . 
It was like the tinkling of a bell . 
This sound proceeded from the garden . 
It could be heard distinctly though faintly . 
It resembled the faint , vague music produced by the bells of cattle at night in the pastures . 
This noise made Valjean turn round . 
He looked and saw that there was some one in the garden . 
This person appeared to limp . 
Jean Valjean shuddered with the continual tremor of the unhappy . 
For them everything is hostile and suspicious . 
They distrust the day because it enables people to see them , and the night because it aids in surprising them . 
A little while before he had shivered because the garden was deserted , and now he shivered because there was some one there . 
He fell back from chimerical terrors to real terrors . 
He took the sleeping Cosette gently in his arms and carried her behind a heap of old furniture , which was out of use , in the most remote corner of the shed . 
From that point he scrutinized the appearance of the being in the melon patch . 
The strange thing about it was , that the sound of the bell followed each of this man's movements . 
Ah ! good God ! he cried . 
He spoke to her in a low voice Cosette ! She did not open her eyes . 
Is she dead ? he said to himself , and sprang to his feet , quivering from head to foot . 
The most frightful thoughts rushed pell mell through his mind . 
There are moments when hideous surmises assail us like a cohort of furies , and violently force the partitions of our brains . 
When those we love are in question , our prudence invents every sort of madness . 
He remembered that sleep in the open air on a cold night may be fatal . 
Cosette was pale , and had fallen at full length on the ground at his feet , without a movement . 
He listened to her breathing she still breathed , but with a respiration which seemed to him weak and on the point of extinction . 
How was he to warm her back to life ? How was he to rouse her ? All that was not connected with this vanished from his thoughts . 
He rushed wildly from the ruin . 
It was absolutely necessary that Cosette should be in bed and beside a fire in less than a quarter of an hour . 
CHAPTER IX THE MAN WITH THE BELL He walked straight up to the man whom he saw in the garden . 
He had taken in his hand the roll of silver which was in the pocket of his waistcoat . 
The man's head was bent down , and he did not see him approaching . 
In a few strides Jean Valjean stood beside him . 
Jean Valjean accosted him with the cry One hundred francs ! The man gave a start and raised his eyes . 
You can earn a hundred francs , went on Jean Valjean , if you will grant me shelter for this night . 
The moon shone full upon Jean Valjean's terrified countenance . 
What ! so it is you , Father Madeleine ! said the man . 
That name , thus pronounced , at that obscure hour , in that unknown spot , by that strange man , made Jean Valjean start back . 
He had expected anything but that . 
His face , which was in the shadow , was not distinguishable . 
The goodman talked with a rustic volubility , in which there was nothing alarming . 
All this was uttered with a mixture of stupefaction and naive kindliness . 
Who are you ? and what house is this ? demanded Jean Valjean . 
Ah ! pardieu , this is too much ! exclaimed the old man . 
I am the person for whom you got the place here , and this house is the one where you had me placed . 
What ! You don't recognize me ? No , said Jean Valjean and how happens it that you know me ? You saved my life , said the man . 
A ray of moonlight outlined his profile , and Jean Valjean recognized old Fauchelevent . 
Ah ! said Jean Valjean , so it is you ? Yes , I recollect you . 
That is very lucky , said the old man , in a reproachful tone . 
And what are you doing here ? resumed Jean Valjean . 
During the hour or thereabouts that he had been in the garden he had already spread out a number of them . 
It was this operation which had caused him to execute the peculiar movements observed from the shed by Jean Valjean . 
He continued I said to myself , The moon is bright it is going to freeze . 
Strange to say , their roles seemed to be reversed . 
It was he , the intruder , who interrogated . 
And what is this bell which you wear on your knee ? This , replied Fauchelevent , is so that I may be avoided . 
What ! so that you may be avoided ? Old Fauchelevent winked with an indescribable air . 
Ah , goodness ! there are only women in this house many young girls . 
It appears that I should be a dangerous person to meet . 
The bell gives them warning . 
When I come , they go . 
What house is this ? Come , you know well enough . 
Not when you got me the place here as gardener ? Answer me as though I knew nothing . 
Well , then , this is the Petit Picpus convent . 
Memories recurred to Jean Valjean . 
He repeated , as though talking to himself The Petit Picpus convent . 
Exactly , returned old Fauchelevent . 
There is no one but me . 
Still , said Jean Valjean , I must stay here . 
Ah , good God ! cried Fauchelevent . 
Jean Valjean drew near to the old man , and said to him in a grave voice Father Fauchelevent , I saved your life . 
I was the first to recall it , returned Fauchelevent . 
Well , you can do to day for me that which I did for you in the olden days . 
Fauchelevent took in his aged , trembling , and wrinkled hands Jean Valjean's two robust hands , and stood for several minutes as though incapable of speaking . 
His countenance seemed to emit a ray of light . 
What do you wish me to do ? he resumed . 
That I will explain to you . 
You have a chamber ? I have an isolated hovel yonder , behind the ruins of the old convent , in a corner which no one ever looks into . 
There are three rooms in it . 
The hut was , in fact , so well hidden behind the ruins , and so cleverly arranged to prevent it being seen , that Jean Valjean had not perceived it . 
Good , said Jean Valjean . 
Now I am going to ask two things of you . 
What are they , Mr. Mayor ? In the first place , you are not to tell any one what you know about me . 
In the second , you are not to try to find out anything more . 
I know that you can do nothing that is not honest , that you have always been a man after the good God's heart . 
And then , moreover , you it was who placed me here . 
I am at your service . 
Now , come with me . 
We will go and get the child . 
Ah ! said Fauchelevent , so there is a child ? He added not a word further , and followed Jean Valjean as a dog follows his master . 
Less than half an hour afterwards Cosette , who had grown rosy again before the flame of a good fire , was lying asleep in the old gardener's bed . 
Jean Valjean had put on his cravat and coat once more his hat , which he had flung over the wall , had been found and picked up . 
While Jean Valjean was putting on his coat , Fauchelevent had removed the bell and kneecap , which now hung on a nail beside a vintage basket that adorned the wall . 
Paris is a maelstrom where everything is lost , and everything disappears in this belly of the world , as in the belly of the sea . 
No forest hides a man as does that crowd . 
Fugitives of every sort know this . 
They go to Paris as to an abyss there are gulfs which save . 
The police know it also , and it is in Paris that they seek what they have lost elsewhere . 
They sought the ex mayor of M. sur M. Javert was summoned to Paris to throw light on their researches . 
Javert had , in fact , rendered powerful assistance in the recapture of Jean Valjean . 
Javert's zeal and intelligence on that occasion had been remarked by M. Chabouillet , secretary of the Prefecture under Comte Angles . 
M. Chabouillet , who had , moreover , already been Javert's patron , had the inspector of M. sur M. attached to the police force of Paris . 
There Javert rendered himself useful in divers and , though the word may seem strange for such services , honorable manners . 
Just as he was finishing the article , which interested him a name , the name of Jean Valjean , attracted his attention at the bottom of a page . 
The paper announced that the convict Jean Valjean was dead , and published the fact in such formal terms that Javert did not doubt it . 
He confined himself to the remark , That's a good entry . 
Then he threw aside the paper , and thought no more about it . 
This report came under Javert's eye and set him to thinking . 
The name of Fantine was well known to him . 
He recalled the fact that Jean Valjean had been arrested in Paris at the very moment when he was stepping into the coach for Montfermeil . 
What had he been intending to do in that region of Montfermeil ? It could not even be surmised . 
Jean Valjean was going there in search of her . 
And now this child had been stolen by a stranger ! Who could that stranger be ? Could it be Jean Valjean ? But Jean Valjean was dead . 
Javert , without saying anything to anybody , took the coach from the Pewter Platter , Cul de Sac de la Planchette , and made a trip to Montfermeil . 
He expected to find a great deal of light on the subject there he found a great deal of obscurity . 
For the first few days the Thenardiers had chattered in their rage . 
The disappearance of the Lark had created a sensation in the village . 
He immediately obtained numerous versions of the story , which ended in the abduction of a child . 
The last thing that owls desire is to have a candle brought to them . 
He added the grandfather , which produced a good effect . 
This was the story that Javert hit upon when he arrived at Montfermeil . 
The grandfather caused Jean Valjean to vanish . 
Nevertheless , Javert dropped a few questions , like plummets , into Thenardier's history . 
Who was that grandfather ? and what was his name ? Thenardier replied with simplicity He is a wealthy farmer . 
I think his name was M. Guillaume Lambert . 
Lambert is a respectable and extremely reassuring name . 
Thereupon Javert returned to Paris . 
Jean Valjean is certainly dead , said he , and I am a ninny . 
Montfermeil ! that name was always coming up , and it made Javert prick up his ears . 
An old beggar police spy , an ex beadle , to whom this person had given alms , added a few more details . 
He wore a horrible old yellow frock coat , which was worth many millions , being all wadded with bank bills . 
This piqued Javert's curiosity in a decided manner . 
The suspected individual did indeed approach Javert thus disguised , and bestow alms on him . 
At that moment Javert raised his head , and the shock which Jean Valjean received on recognizing Javert was equal to the one received by Javert when he thought he recognized Jean Valjean . 
He followed his man to the Gorbeau house , and got the old woman to talking , which was no difficult matter . 
The old woman confirmed the fact regarding the coat lined with millions , and narrated to him the episode of the thousand franc bill . 
She had seen it ! She had handled it ! Javert hired a room that evening he installed himself in it . 
At night , when Jean Valjean came out , Javert was waiting for him behind the trees of the boulevard with two men . 
He hated those well heralded successes which are talked of long in advance and have had the bloom brushed off . 
He preferred to elaborate his masterpieces in the dark and to unveil them suddenly at the last . 
Why had not Javert arrested Jean Valjean ? Because he was still in doubt . 
Interference with individual liberty was a grave matter . 
The police agents were afraid of making a mistake the prefect laid the blame on them a mistake meant dismissal . 
He was really in doubt . 
Jean Valjean turned his back on him and walked in the dark . 
He had trusty fellows , accomplices' retreats in case of emergencies , in which he would , no doubt , take refuge . 
All these turns which he was making through the streets seemed to indicate that he was not a simple and honest man . 
To arrest him too hastily would be to kill the hen that laid the golden eggs . 
Where was the inconvenience in waiting ? Javert was very sure that he would not escape . 
Thus he proceeded in a tolerably perplexed state of mind , putting to himself a hundred questions about this enigmatical personage . 
It was only quite late in the Rue de Pontoise , that , thanks to the brilliant light thrown from a dram shop , he decidedly recognized Jean Valjean . 
There are in this world two beings who give a profound start , the mother who recovers her child and the tiger who recovers his prey . 
Javert gave that profound start . 
One puts on gloves before grasping a thorn cudgel . 
This delay and the halt at the Carrefour Rollin to consult with his agents came near causing him to lose the trail . 
He speedily divined , however , that Jean Valjean would want to put the river between his pursuers and himself . 
He bent his head and reflected like a blood hound who puts his nose to the ground to make sure that he is on the right scent . 
Javert , with his powerful rectitude of instinct , went straight to the bridge of Austerlitz . 
Javert reached the bridge in season to see Jean Valjean traverse the small illuminated spot on the other side of the water , leading Cosette by the hand . 
He made sure of his back burrows , as huntsmen say he hastily despatched one of his agents , by a roundabout way , to guard that issue . 
A patrol which was returning to the Arsenal post having passed him , he made a requisition on it , and caused it to accompany him . 
In such games soldiers are aces . 
Moreover , the principle is , that in order to get the best of a wild boar , one must employ the science of venery and plenty of dogs . 
Then he began the game . 
Claws and talons possess a monstrous sensuality , the obscure movements of the creature imprisoned in their pincers . 
What a delight this strangling is ! Javert was enjoying himself . 
The meshes of his net were stoutly knotted . 
He was sure of success all he had to do now was to close his hand . 
Accompanied as he was , the very idea of resistance was impossible , however vigorous , energetic , and desperate Jean Valjean might be . 
Javert advanced slowly , sounding , searching on his way all the nooks of the street like so many pockets of thieves . 
When he reached the centre of the web he found the fly no longer there . 
His exasperation can be imagined . 
He interrogated his sentinel of the Rues Droit Mur and Petit Picpus that agent , who had remained imperturbably at his post , had not seen the man pass . 
Duvivier , Ligniville , and Desprez halt short . 
In a discomfiture of this sort , Artonge exclaims , It was not a stag , but a sorcerer . 
Javert would have liked to utter the same cry . 
His disappointment bordered for a moment on despair and rage . 
He was wrong , perhaps , in hesitating in his recognition of the exconvict . 
The first glance should have sufficed him . 
He was wrong in not arresting him purely and simply in the old building he was wrong in not arresting him when he positively recognized him in the Rue de Pontoise . 
He was wrong in taking counsel with his auxiliaries in the full light of the moon in the Carrefour Rollin . 
He thought himself stronger than he was , and believed that he could play at the game of the mouse and the lion . 
At the same time , he reckoned himself as too weak , when he judged it necessary to obtain reinforcement . 
Fatal precaution , waste of precious time ! Javert committed all these blunders , and none the less was one of the cleverest and most correct spies that ever existed . 
He was , in the full force of the term , what is called in venery a knowing dog . 
But what is there that is perfect ? Great strategists have their eclipses . 
The greatest follies are often composed , like the largest ropes , of a multitude of strands . 
However that may be , even at the moment when he saw that Jean Valjean had escaped him , Javert did not lose his head . 
Sure that the convict who had broken his ban could not be far off , he established sentinels , he organized traps and ambuscades , and beat the quarter all that night . 
The first thing he saw was the disorder in the street lantern whose rope had been cut . 
A precious sign which , however , led him astray , since it caused him to turn all his researches in the direction of the Cul de Sac Genrot . 
In this blind alley there were tolerably low walls which abutted on gardens whose bounds adjoined the immense stretches of waste land . 
Jean Valjean evidently must have fled in that direction . 
The fact is , that had he penetrated a little further in the Cul de Sac Genrot , he would probably have done so and have been lost . 
Javert explored these gardens and these waste stretches as though he had been hunting for a needle . 
LE PETIT PICPUS CHAPTER I NUMBER RUE PETIT PICPUS Nothing , half a century ago , more resembled every other carriage gate than the carriage gate of Number Rue Petit Picpus . 
Above the wall , at the bottom of the court , tall trees were visible . 
Nevertheless , it was a sombre place of which one had had a glimpse . 
The threshold smiled the house prayed and wept . 
Staircase and corridor were lighted by two beautiful windows . 
The corridor took a turn and became dark . 
If one doubled this cape , one arrived a few paces further on , in front of a door which was all the more mysterious because it was not fastened . 
A white , dull light fell from a large window , with tiny panes , on the left , which usurped the whole width of the room . 
One gazed about , but saw no one one listened , one heard neither a footstep nor a human murmur . 
The walls were bare , the chamber was not furnished there was not even a chair . 
The little green flowers of the nankin paper ran in a calm and orderly manner to those iron bars , without being startled or thrown into confusion by their funereal contact . 
Supposing that a living being had been so wonderfully thin as to essay an entrance or an exit through the square hole , this grating would have prevented it . 
It did not allow the passage of the body , but it did allow the passage of the eyes that is to say , of the mind . 
At the bottom of this plate , an aperture had been pierced exactly similar to the orifice of a letter box . 
A bit of tape attached to a bell wire hung at the right of the grated opening . 
If the tape was pulled , a bell rang , and one heard a voice very near at hand , which made one start . 
Who is there ? the voice demanded . 
It was a woman's voice , a gentle voice , so gentle that it was mournful . 
Here , again , there was a magical word which it was necessary to know . 
If one knew the password , the voice resumed , Enter on the right . 
One then perceived on the right , facing the window , a glass door surmounted by a frame glazed and painted gray . 
There he encountered a barrier of black shutters , re enforced and fortified with transverse beams of wood painted a gingerbread yellow . 
These shutters were divided into long , narrow slats , and they masked the entire length of the grating . 
At the expiration of a few moments one heard a voice proceeding from behind these shutters , and saying I am here . 
What do you wish with me ? It was a beloved , sometimes an adored , voice . 
Hardly the sound of a breath was audible . 
It seemed as though it were a spirit which had been evoked , that was speaking to you across the walls of the tomb . 
If one chanced to be within certain prescribed and very rare conditions , the slat of one of the shutters opened opposite you the evoked spirit became an apparition . 
One caught a glimpse of a black guimpe , and a form that was barely defined , covered with a black shroud . 
That head spoke with you , but did not look at you and never smiled at you . 
The light which came from behind you was adjusted in such a manner that you saw her in the white , and she saw you in the black . 
Nevertheless , your eyes plunged eagerly through that opening which was made in that place shut off from all glances . 
A profound vagueness enveloped that form clad in mourning . 
Your eyes searched that vagueness , and sought to make out the surroundings of the apparition . 
At the expiration of a very short time you discovered that you could see nothing . 
What you beheld was the interior of a cloister . 
It was the interior of that severe and gloomy edifice which was called the Convent of the Bernardines of the Perpetual Adoration . 
The box in which you stood was the parlor . 
Profane eyes must see nothing of that sacred place . 
Nevertheless , there was something beyond that shadow there was a light there was life in the midst of that death . 
These Bernardines were attached , in consequence , not to Clairvaux , like the Bernardine monks , but to Citeaux , like the Benedictine monks . 
In other words , they were the subjects , not of Saint Bernard , but of Saint Benoit . 
This congregation had sent out branches throughout all the Catholic countries of Europe . 
There is nothing unusual in the Latin Church in these grafts of one order on another . 
Citeaux dates from Saint Robert , Abbe de Molesme , in the diocese of Langres , in . 
They are clothed in black , with a guimpe , which , in accordance with the express command of Saint Benoit , mounts to the chin . 
All is black except the band , which is white . 
The novices wear the same habit , but all in white . 
The professed nuns also wear a rosary at their side . 
There were numerous differences in their rule there were some in their costume . 
The nuns of the Petit Picpus did not wear this Holy Sacrament . 
The Perpetual Adoration , which was common to the house of the Petit Picpus and to the house of the Temple , leaves those two orders perfectly distinct . 
The Oratory of Italy , established at Florence by Philip de Neri , and the Oratory of France , established by Pierre de Berulle . 
The Oratory of France claimed the precedence , since Philip de Neri was only a saint , while Berulle was a cardinal . 
Let us return to the harsh Spanish rule of Martin Verga . 
These six months are a modification the rule says all the year , but this drugget chemise , intolerable in the heat of summer , produced fevers and nervous spasms . 
The use of it had to be restricted . 
Even with this palliation , when the nuns put on this chemise on the th of September , they suffer from fever for three or four days . 
Obedience , poverty , chastity , perseverance in their seclusion , these are their vows , which the rule greatly aggravates . 
The prioress is elected for three years by the mothers , who are called meres vocales because they have a voice in the chapter . 
A prioress can only be re elected twice , which fixes the longest possible reign of a prioress at nine years . 
They never see the officiating priest , who is always hidden from them by a serge curtain nine feet in height . 
During the sermon , when the preacher is in the chapel , they drop their veils over their faces . 
They must always speak low , walk with their eyes on the ground and their heads bowed . 
One man only is allowed to enter the convent , the archbishop of the diocese . 
There is really one other , the gardener . 
Their submission to the prioress is absolute and passive . 
It is the canonical subjection in the full force of its abnegation . 
Each one of them in turn makes what they call reparation . 
When her fatigue becomes unendurable , she prostrates herself flat on her face against the earth , with her arms outstretched in the form of a cross this is her only relief . 
In this attitude she prays for all the guilty in the universe . 
This is great to sublimity . 
As this act is performed in front of a post on which burns a candle , it is called without distinction , to make reparation or to be at the post . 
The nuns even prefer , out of humility , this last expression , which contains an idea of torture and abasement . 
To make reparation is a function in which the whole soul is absorbed . 
The sister at the post would not turn round were a thunderbolt to fall directly behind her . 
Besides this , there is always a sister kneeling before the Holy Sacrament . 
This station lasts an hour . 
They relieve each other like soldiers on guard . 
This is the Perpetual Adoration . 
But the names of saints are not interdicted . 
When one sees them , one never sees anything but their mouths . 
All their teeth are yellow . 
No tooth brush ever entered that convent . 
Brushing one's teeth is at the top of a ladder at whose bottom is the loss of one's soul . 
They possess nothing of their own , and they must not attach themselves to anything . 
They call everything our thus our veil , our chaplet if they were speaking of their chemise , they would say our chemise . 
Sometimes they grow attached to some petty object , to a book of hours , a relic , a medal that has been blessed . 
As soon as they become aware that they are growing attached to this object , they must give it up . 
They live with their cells open . 
When they meet , one says , Blessed and adored be the most Holy Sacrament of the altar ! The other responds , Forever . 
The same ceremony when one taps at the other's door . 
Among the Visitandines the one who enters says Ave Maria , and the one whose cell is entered says , Gratia plena . 
It is their way of saying good day , which is in fact full of grace . 
At each hour of the day three supplementary strokes sound from the church bell of the convent . 
This custom , the object of which is to break the thread of thought and to lead it back constantly to God , exists in many communities the formula alone varies . 
Everywhere in the missal where an asterisk occurs they pause , and say in a low voice , Jesus Marie Joseph . 
For the office of the dead they adopt a tone so low that the voices of women can hardly descend to such a depth . 
The effect produced is striking and tragic . 
The nuns of the Petit Picpus had made a vault under their grand altar for the burial of their community . 
The Government , as they say , does not permit this vault to receive coffins so they leave the convent when they die . 
This is an affliction to them , and causes them consternation as an infraction of the rules . 
On Fridays the nuns hear high mass , vespers , and all the offices , as on Sunday . 
Their stations in the chapel are interminable . 
Once a week the chapter assembles the prioress presides the vocal mothers assist . 
Each sister kneels in turn on the stones , and confesses aloud , in the presence of all , the faults and sins which she has committed during the week . 
The vocal mothers consult after each confession and inflict the penance aloud . 
Besides this confession in a loud tone , for which all faults in the least serious are reserved , they have for their venial offences what they call the coulpe . 
this suffices , and the coulpe is made . 
who judges herself and inflicts it on herself . 
On festival days and Sundays four mother precentors intone the offices before a large reading desk with four places . 
When a nun is summoned to the parlor , even were it the prioress herself , she drops her veil , as will be remembered , so that only her mouth is visible . 
The prioress alone can hold communication with strangers . 
The others can see only their immediate family , and that very rarely . 
It is unnecessary to say that permission is always refused to men . 
Such is the rule of Saint Benoit , aggravated by Martin Verga . 
These nuns are not gay , rosy , and fresh , as the daughters of other orders often are . 
They are pale and grave . 
Between and three of them went mad . 
CHAPTER III AUSTERITIES One is a postulant for two years at least , often for four a novice for four . 
It is rare that the definitive vows can be pronounced earlier than the age of twenty three or twenty four years . 
The Bernardines Benedictines of Martin Verga do not admit widows to their order . 
In their cells , they deliver themselves up to many unknown macerations , of which they must never speak . 
Then she prostrates herself a great black veil is thrown over her , and the office for the dead is sung . 
These young girls , reared by these nuns between four walls , grew up with a horror of the world and of the age . 
One of them said to us one day , The sight of the street pavement made me shudder from head to foot . 
They were dressed in blue , with a white cap and a Holy Spirit of silver gilt or of copper on their breast . 
In the early days the nuns were in the habit of lending them their black garments . 
This seemed profane , and the prioress forbade it . 
Only the novices were permitted to lend . 
They simply amused themselves with it . 
It was new it gave them a change . 
The pupils conformed , with the exception of the austerities , to all the practices of the convent . 
Their very mothers did not obtain permission to embrace them . 
The following illustrates to what a degree severity on that point was carried . 
One day a young girl received a visit from her mother , who was accompanied by a little sister three years of age . 
The young girl wept , for she wished greatly to embrace her sister . 
She begged that , at least , the child might be permitted to pass her little hand through the bars so that she could kiss it . 
This was almost indignantly refused . 
CHAPTER IV GAYETIES None the less , these young girls filled this grave house with charming souvenirs . 
At certain hours childhood sparkled in that cloister . 
A door swung on its hinges . 
The birds said , Good here come the children ! An irruption of youth inundated that garden intersected with a cross like a shroud . 
Radiant faces , white foreheads , innocent eyes , full of merry light , all sorts of auroras , were scattered about amid these shadows . 
After the psalmodies , the bells , the peals , and knells and offices , the sound of these little girls burst forth on a sudden more sweetly than the noise of bees . 
The hive of joy was opened , and each one brought her honey . 
Those four lugubrious walls had their moment of dazzling brilliancy . 
They looked on , vaguely blanched with the reflection of so much joy at this sweet swarming of the hives . 
It was like a shower of roses falling athwart this house of mourning . 
The young girls frolicked beneath the eyes of the nuns the gaze of impeccability does not embarrass innocence . 
Thanks to these children , there was , among so many austere hours , one hour of ingenuousness . 
The little ones skipped about the elder ones danced . 
In this cloister play was mingled with heaven . 
Nothing is so delightful and so august as all these fresh , expanding young souls . 
In that house more than anywhere else , perhaps , arise those children's sayings which are so graceful and which evoke a smile that is full of thoughtfulness . 
What happiness ! It was here , too , that this memorable dialogue took place A Vocal Mother . 
Why are you weeping , my child ? The child . 
I told Alix that I knew my French history . 
She says that I do not know it , but I do . 
Alix , the big girl . 
No she does not know it . 
How is that , my child ? Alix . 
She told me to open the book at random and to ask her any question in the book , and she would answer it . 
Well ? She did not answer it . 
Let us see about it . 
What did you ask her ? I opened the book at random , as she proposed , and I put the first question that I came across . 
Father , I accuse myself of having been an adulteress . 
Father , I accuse myself of having raised my eyes to the gentlemen . 
They plucked the flowers and put them in their pockets . 
After that they plucked the leaves and put them in their playthings . 
There was a wolf in that country there was a great deal of forest and the wolf was in the forest and he ate the little cocks . 
And this other poem There came a blow with a stick . 
It was Punchinello who bestowed it on the cat . 
It was not good for her it hurt her . 
Then a lady put Punchinello in prison . 
It was there that a little abandoned child , a foundling whom the convent was bringing up out of charity , uttered this sweet and heart breaking saying . 
The big big girls those over ten years of age called her Agathocles . 
All the places round about furnished their contingent of insects . 
Each of its four corners had received , in the language of the pupils , a special and expressive name . 
There was Spider corner , Caterpillar corner , Wood louse corner , and Cricket corner . 
Cricket corner was near the kitchen and was highly esteemed . 
It was not so cold there as elsewhere . 
From the refectory the names had passed to the boarding school , and there served as in the old College Mazarin to distinguish four nations . 
Every pupil belonged to one of these four nations according to the corner of the refectory in which she sat at meals . 
One day Monseigneur the Archbishop while making his pastoral visit saw a pretty little rosy girl with beautiful golden hair enter the class room through which he was passing . 
He inquired of another pupil , a charming brunette with rosy cheeks , who stood near him Who is that ? She is a spider , Monseigneur . 
Bah ! And that one yonder ? She is a cricket . 
And that one ? She is a caterpillar . 
Really ! and yourself ? I am a wood louse , Monseigneur . 
Every house of this sort has its own peculiarities . 
At the beginning of this century Ecouen was one of those strict and graceful places where young girls pass their childhood in a shadow that is almost august . 
At Ecouen , in order to take rank in the procession of the Holy Sacrament , a distinction was made between virgins and florists . 
There were also the dais and the censors , the first who held the cords of the dais , and the others who carried incense before the Holy Sacrament . 
The flowers belonged by right to the florists . 
Four virgins walked in advance . 
The good God is my father , the good Virgin is my mother , the three apostles are my brothers , the three virgins are my sisters . 
The shirt in which God was born envelopes my body Saint Margaret's cross is written on my breast . 
Madame the Virgin was walking through the meadows , weeping for God , when she met M. Saint John . 
Monsieur Saint John , whence come you ? I come from Ave Salus . 
Whoever shall say this thrice at eventide , thrice in the morning , shall win paradise at the last . 
In this characteristic orison had disappeared from the wall under a triple coating of daubing paint . 
At the present time it is finally disappearing from the memories of several who were young girls then , and who are old women now . 
A large crucifix fastened to the wall completed the decoration of this refectory , whose only door , as we think we have mentioned , opened on the garden . 
Two narrow tables , each flanked by two wooden benches , formed two long parallel lines from one end to the other of the refectory . 
The walls were white , the tables were black these two mourning colors constitute the only variety in convents . 
The meals were plain , and the food of the children themselves severe . 
A single dish of meat and vegetables combined , or salt fish such was their luxury . 
This meagre fare , which was reserved for the pupils alone , was , nevertheless , an exception . 
This silence was seasoned with the lives of the saints , read aloud from a little pulpit with a desk , which was situated at the foot of the crucifix . 
The reader was one of the big girls , in weekly turn . 
These bowls were called ronds d'eau . 
The child who broke the silence made a cross with her tongue . 
Where ? On the ground . 
The dust , that end of all joys , was charged with the chastisement of those poor little rose leaves which had been guilty of chirping . 
There was in the convent a book which has never been printed except as a unique copy , and which it is forbidden to read . 
It is the rule of Saint Benoit . 
An arcanum which no profane eye must penetrate . 
Nemo regulas , seu constitutiones nostras , externis communicabit . 
From the great danger thus incurred they derived but a very moderate amount of pleasure . 
The most interesting thing they found were some unintelligible pages about the sins of young boys . 
They played in an alley of the garden bordered with a few shabby fruit trees . 
I quote literally One hides one's pear or one's apple as best one may . 
That was one of their greatest luxuries . 
The wager was accepted , but not one of those who bet believed that she would do it . 
Mademoiselle Bouchard was tall , blooming , with the prettiest little rosy face in the world . 
M. de Quelen smiled and said , What , my dear child , a day's leave of absence ! Three days if you like . 
I grant you three days . 
The prioress could do nothing the archbishop had spoken . 
Horror of the convent , but joy of the pupil . 
The effect may be imagined . 
We mention the fact for the sake of completing the physiognomy of the convent in the reader's mind . 
About this time there was in the convent a mysterious person who was not a nun , who was treated with great respect , and who was addressed as Madame Albertine . 
Nothing was known about her , save that she was mad , and that in the world she passed for dead . 
Beneath this history it was said there lay the arrangements of fortune necessary for a great marriage . 
This woman , hardly thirty years of age , of dark complexion and tolerably pretty , had a vague look in her large black eyes . 
Could she see ? There was some doubt about this . 
She glided rather than walked , she never spoke it was not quite known whether she breathed . 
Her nostrils were livid and pinched as after yielding up their last sigh . 
To touch her hand was like touching snow . 
She possessed a strange spectral grace . 
Wherever she entered , people felt cold . 
One day a sister , on seeing her pass , said to another sister , She passes for a dead woman . 
Perhaps she is one , replied the other . 
A hundred tales were told of Madame Albertine . 
This arose from the eternal curiosity of the pupils . 
In the chapel there was a gallery called L'OEil de Boeuf . 
It was in this gallery , which had only a circular bay , an oeil de boeuf , that Madame Albertine listened to the offices . 
It was the first time that M. de Rohan had preached at the Petit Picpus convent . 
Madame Albertine usually preserved perfect calmness and complete immobility during the sermons and services . 
Those two words , however , had set every one in the convent who had the privilege of speech to chattering . 
How many things were contained in that Ah ! Auguste ! what revelations ! M. de Rohan's name really was Auguste . 
When these two old ladies passed by , all the poor young girls trembled and dropped their eyes . 
Moreover , M. de Rohan , quite unknown to himself , was an object of attention to the school girls . 
At that epoch he had just been made , while waiting for the episcopate , vicar general of the Archbishop of Paris . 
It was one of his habits to come tolerably often to celebrate the offices in the chapel of the nuns of the Petit Picpus . 
He held a great place in all these imaginations of sixteen years . 
Not a sound from without made its way into the convent . 
But there was one year when the sound of a flute penetrated thither . 
This was an event , and the girls who were at school there at the time still recall it . 
It was a flute which was played in the neighborhood . 
The young girls passed hours in listening to it , the vocal mothers were upset by it , brains were busy , punishments descended in showers . 
This lasted for several months . 
The girls were all more or less in love with the unknown musician . 
Each one dreamed that she was Zetulbe . 
Impossible ! One even went so far as to thrust her arm through the grating , and to wave her white handkerchief . 
They found means to climb on a roof , and risked their lives there , and succeeded at last in seeing the young man . 
He was an old emigre gentleman , blind and penniless , who was playing his flute in his attic , in order to pass the time . 
When the Empire was established , all these poor old dispersed and exiled women had been accorded permission to come and take shelter under the wings of the Bernardines Benedictines . 
The government paid them a small pension , the ladies of the Petit Picpus received them cordially . 
It was a singular pell mell . 
One of these refugees found herself almost at home . 
She was a nun of Sainte Aure , the only one of her order who had survived . 
In , only one nun of this order remained to day , there remains only a doll . 
In addition to these worthy mothers , some old society women had obtained permission of the prioress , like Madame Albertine , to retire into the Little Convent . 
Among the number were Madame Beaufort d'Hautpoul and Marquise Dufresne . 
Another was never known in the convent except by the formidable noise which she made when she blew her nose . 
The pupils called her Madame Vacarmini . 
The Duc d'Orleans recommended her . 
Uproar in the hive the vocal mothers were all in a flutter Madame de Genlis had made romances . 
But she declared that she was the first to detest them , and then , she had reached her fierce stage of devotion . 
With the aid of God , and of the Prince , she entered . 
She departed at the end of six or eight months , alleging as a reason , that there was no shade in the garden . 
Although very old , she still played the harp , and did it very well . 
When she went away she left her mark in her cell . 
Madame de Genlis was superstitious and a Latinist . 
These two words furnish a tolerably good profile of her . 
Hos versus dicas , ne tu furto tua perdas . 
On the boughs hang three bodies of unequal merits Dismas and Gesmas , between is the divine power . 
Dismas seeks the heights , Gesmas , unhappy man , the lowest regions the highest power will preserve us and our effects . 
If you repeat this verse , you will not lose your things by theft . 
These verses in sixth century Latin raise the question whether the two thieves of Calvary were named , as is commonly believed , Dismas and Gestas , or Dismas and Gesmas . 
This orthography might have confounded the pretensions put forward in the last century by the Vicomte de Gestas , of a descent from the wicked thief . 
However , the useful virtue attached to these verses forms an article of faith in the order of the Hospitallers . 
The public was even admitted by a sort of lazaretto entrance on the street . 
But all was so arranged , that none of the inhabitants of the cloister could see a face from the outside world . 
That cavern , which was called the choir , communicated with the cloister by a lobby . 
The church was lighted from the garden . 
When the nuns were present at services where their rule enjoined silence , the public was warned of their presence only by the folding seats of the stalls noisily rising and falling . 
She came of the family of Marguerite de Blemeur , author of Lives of the Saints of the Order of Saint Benoit . 
She had been re elected . 
The sub prioress was an old Spanish nun , Mother Cineres , who was almost blind . 
, who went mad Mother Sainte Chantal , who went mad . 
Mother Sainte Mechtilde , intrusted with the singing and the choir , was fond of making use of the pupils in this quarter . 
This presented to the eye , something in the nature of a reed pipe of young girls , a sort of living Pan pipe made of angels . 
All these women were gentle with the children . 
The nuns were severe only towards themselves . 
No fire was lighted except in the school , and the food was choice compared to that in the convent . 
Moreover , they lavished a thousand cares on their scholars . 
Only , when a child passed near a nun and addressed her , the nun never replied . 
This rule of silence had had this effect , that throughout the whole convent , speech had been withdrawn from human creatures , and bestowed on inanimate objects . 
Now it was the church bell which spoke , now it was the gardener's bell . 
Each person and each thing had its own peal . 
The prioress had one and one , the sub prioress one and two . 
Six five announced lessons , so that the pupils never said to go to lessons , but to go to six five . 
Four four was Madame de Genlis's signal . 
It was very often heard . 
C'est le diable a quatre , it's the very deuce said the uncharitable . 
Tennine strokes announced a great event . 
It was the opening of the door of seclusion , a frightful sheet of iron bristling with bolts which only turned on its hinges in the presence of the archbishop . 
With the exception of the archbishop and the gardener , no man entered the convent , as we have already said . 
It will be seen that all these men were carefully chosen . 
Such was this curious house . 
CHAPTER VIII POST CORDA LAPIDES After having sketched its moral face , it will not prove unprofitable to point out , in a few words , its material configuration . 
The reader already has some idea of it . 
These four streets surrounded this trapezium like a moat . 
The convent was composed of several buildings and a garden . 
This was the public entrance of the church . 
The elbow of the gibbet was a square hall which was used as the servants' hall , and which the nuns called the buttery . 
In the main arm were the cells of the mothers , the sisters , and the novices . 
In the lesser arm lay the kitchens , the refectory , backed up by the cloisters and the church . 
Between the door No. and the corner of the closed lane Aumarais , was the school , which was not visible from without . 
As the alleys all ended in the very irregular walls of the garden , they were of unequal length . 
They were bordered with currant bushes . 
In front of the Little Convent was what was called the little garden . 
All these streets , moreover , were more ancient than Paris . 
These names , Droit Mur and Aumarais , are very ancient the streets which bear them are very much more ancient still . 
Aumarais Lane was called Maugout Lane the Rue Droit Mur was called the Rue des Eglantiers , for God opened flowers before man cut stones . 
In the Little Convent there was a centenarian who came from the Abbey of Fontevrault . 
She had even been in society before the Revolution . 
She talked a great deal of M. de Miromesnil , Keeper of the Seals under Louis XVI . 
and of a Presidentess Duplat , with whom she had been very intimate . 
It was her pleasure and her vanity to drag in these names on every pretext . 
She told wonders of the Abbey of Fontevrault , that it was like a city , and that there were streets in the monastery . 
She talked with a Picard accent which amused the pupils . 
and thus I give it to you , father . 
And the school girls would begin to laugh , not in their sleeves , but under their veils charming little stifled laughs which made the vocal mothers frown . 
On another occasion , the centenarian was telling stories . 
She said that in her youth the Bernardine monks were every whit as good as the mousquetaires . 
It was a century which spoke through her , but it was the eighteenth century . 
She told about the custom of the four wines , which existed before the Revolution in Champagne and Bourgogne . 
On the first goblet this inscription could be read , monkey wine on the second , lion wine on the third , sheep wine on the fourth , hog wine . 
In a cupboard , under lock and key , she kept a mysterious object of which she thought a great deal . 
The rule of Fontevrault did not forbid this . 
She would not show this object to anyone . 
She shut herself up , which her rule allowed her to do , and hid herself , every time that she desired to contemplate it . 
If she heard a footstep in the corridor , she closed the cupboard again as hastily as it was possible with her aged hands . 
As soon as it was mentioned to her , she became silent , she who was so fond of talking . 
The most curious were baffled by her silence and the most tenacious by her obstinacy . 
Thus it furnished a subject of comment for all those who were unoccupied or bored in the convent . 
When the poor old woman died , they rushed to her cupboard more hastily than was fitting , perhaps , and opened it . 
They found the object beneath a triple linen cloth , like some consecrated paten . 
It was a Faenza platter representing little Loves flitting away pursued by apothecary lads armed with enormous syringes . 
The chase abounds in grimaces and in comical postures . 
One of the charming little Loves is already fairly spitted . 
He is resisting , fluttering his tiny wings , and still making an effort to fly , but the dancer is laughing with a satanical air . 
Moral Love conquered by the colic . 
This good old woman would not receive any visits from outside because , said she , the parlor is too gloomy . 
As we have said , this convent of the Temple was occupied by Benedictines of the Perpetual Adoration , Benedictines quite different from those who depended on Citeaux . 
This order of the Perpetual Adoration is not very ancient and does not go back more than two hundred years . 
M. the Prior and Vicar General of Saint Germain des Pres ordered a solemn procession of all his clergy , in which the Pope's Nuncio officiated . 
But this expiation did not satisfy two sainted women , Madame Courtin , Marquise de Boucs , and the Comtesse de Chateauvieux . 
Such is the origin of the legal consecration of the establishment of the Benedictines of the Perpetual Adoration of the Holy Sacrament at Paris . 
Their first convent was a new building in the Rue Cassette , out of the contributions of Mesdames de Boucs and de Chateauvieux . 
This order , as it will be seen , was not to be confounded with the Benedictine nuns of Citeaux . 
It was also totally different from the Bernardines of the Petit Picpus , whose interior we have just shown . 
In , Pope Alexander VII . 
had authorized , by a special brief , the Bernardines of the Rue Petit Picpus , to practise the Perpetual Adoration like the Benedictine nuns of the Holy Sacrament . 
But the two orders remained distinct none the less . 
The house of the Petit Picpus was becoming rapidly depopulated . 
In , the Little Convent had disappeared , the school had disappeared . 
There were no longer any old women , nor young girls the first were dead , the latter had taken their departure . 
The rule of the Perpetual Adoration is so rigid in its nature that it alarms , vocations recoil before it , the order receives no recruits . 
In , it still obtained lay sisters here and there . 
But of professed nuns , none at all . 
Forty years ago , the nuns numbered nearly a hundred fifteen years ago there were not more than twenty eight of them . 
How many are there to day ? In , the prioress was young , a sign that the circle of choice was restricted . 
She was not forty years old . 
The burden is implacable , and remains the same for the few as for the many . 
It weighs down , it crushes . 
At the period when the author of this book still lived in Paris , two died . 
One was twenty five years old , the other twenty three . 
This latter can say , like Julia Alpinula Hic jaceo . 
Vixi annos viginti et tres . 
It is in consequence of this decay that the convent gave up the education of girls . 
We have penetrated into this community , full of those old practices which seem so novel to day . 
It is the closed garden , hortus conclusus . 
We have spoken of this singular place in detail , but with respect , in so far , at least , as detail and respect are compatible . 
We do not understand all , but we insult nothing . 
In this nineteenth century , the religious idea is undergoing a crisis . 
People are unlearning certain things , and they do well , provided that , while unlearning them they learn this There is no vacuum in the human heart . 
Certain demolitions take place , and it is well that they do , but on condition that they are followed by reconstructions . 
In the meantime , let us study things which are no more . 
It is necessary to know them , if only for the purpose of avoiding them . 
The counterfeits of the past assume false names , and gladly call themselves the future . 
This spectre , this past , is given to falsifying its own passport . 
Let us inform ourselves of the trap . 
Let us be on our guard . 
The past has a visage , superstition , and a mask , hypocrisy . 
Let us denounce the visage and let us tear off the mask . 
As for convents , they present a complex problem , a question of civilization , which condemns them a question of liberty , which protects them . 
PARENTHESIS CHAPTER I THE CONVENT AS AN ABSTRACT IDEA This book is a drama , whose leading personage is the Infinite . 
Such being the case , and a convent having happened to be on our road , it has been our duty to enter it . 
Monasteries , when they abound in a nation , are clogs in its circulation , cumbrous establishments , centres of idleness where centres of labor should exist . 
Monastic communities are to the great social community what the mistletoe is to the oak , what the wart is to the human body . 
Their prosperity and their fatness mean the impoverishment of the country . 
The monastic regime , good at the beginning of civilization , useful in the reduction of the brutal by the spiritual , is bad when peoples have reached their manhood . 
Claustration has had its day . 
Cloisters , useful in the early education of modern civilization , have embarrassed its growth , and are injurious to its development . 
So far as institution and formation with relation to man are concerned , monasteries , which were good in the tenth century , questionable in the fifteenth , are detestable in the nineteenth . 
The cloister , that cloister , is the point of intersection of horrors . 
The Catholic cloister , properly speaking , is wholly filled with the black radiance of death . 
The Spanish convent is the most funereal of all . 
Their veil is of woven night . 
Their breath under their veil resembles the indescribably tragic respiration of death . 
The abbess , a spectre , sanctifies them and terrifies them . 
The immaculate one is there , and very fierce . 
Such are the ancient monasteries of Spain . 
Liars of terrible devotion , caverns of virgins , ferocious places . 
Catholic Spain is more Roman than Rome herself . 
The Spanish convent was , above all others , the Catholic convent . 
There was a flavor of the Orient about it . 
The archbishop , the kislar aga of heaven , locked up and kept watch over this seraglio of souls reserved for God . 
The nun was the odalisque , the priest was the eunuch . 
The fervent were chosen in dreams and possessed Christ . 
At night , the beautiful , nude young man descended from the cross and became the ecstasy of the cloistered one . 
Lofty walls guarded the mystic sultana , who had the crucified for her sultan , from all living distraction . 
A glance on the outer world was infidelity . 
The in pace replaced the leather sack . 
That which was cast into the sea in the East was thrown into the ground in the West . 
In both quarters , women wrung their hands the waves for the first , the grave for the last here the drowned , there the buried . 
To day the upholders of the past , unable to deny these things , have adopted the expedient of smiling at them . 
There has come into fashion a strange and easy manner of suppressing the revelations of history , of invalidating the commentaries of philosophy , of eliding all embarrassing facts and all gloomy questions . 
A matter for declamations , say the clever . 
Declamations , repeat the foolish . 
Jean Jacques a declaimer Diderot a declaimer Voltaire on Calas , Labarre , and Sirven , declaimers . 
I know not who has recently discovered that Tacitus was a declaimer , that Nero was a victim , and that pity is decidedly due to that poor Holofernes . 
Facts , however , are awkward things to disconcert , and they are obstinate . 
Four feet of river flow past along the outside wall . 
The ground is always soaked . 
The occupant of the in pace had this wet soil for his bed . 
A human being was put inside , with a coverlid of stone on top . 
It has been the scourge of Europe . 
Add individual tortures to national degradations , and , whoever you may be , you will shudder before the frock and the veil , those two winding sheets of human devising . 
Ingrates ! says the garment , I protected you in inclement weather . 
Why will you have nothing to do with me ? I have just come from the deep sea , says the fish . 
I have been a rose , says the perfume . 
I have loved you , says the corpse . 
I have civilized you , says the convent . 
To this there is but one reply In former days . 
Still , there are theorists who hold such theories . 
This logic was known to the ancients . 
They rubbed a black heifer over with chalk , and said , She is white , Bos cretatus . 
As for us , we respect the past here and there , and we spare it , above all , provided that it consents to be dead . 
If it insists on being alive , we attack it , and we try to kill it . 
It is difficult to seize darkness by the throat , and to hurl it to the earth . 
A convent in France , in the broad daylight of the nineteenth century , is a college of owls facing the light . 
A cloister , caught in the very act of asceticism , in the very heart of the city of and of and of , Rome blossoming out in Paris , is an anachronism . 
In ordinary times , in order to dissolve an anachronism and to cause it to vanish , one has only to make it spell out the date . 
But we are not in ordinary times . 
Let us fight , but let us make a distinction . 
The peculiar property of truth is never to commit excesses . 
What need has it of exaggeration ? There is that which it is necessary to destroy , and there is that which it is simply necessary to elucidate and examine . 
What a force is kindly and serious examination ! Let us not apply a flame where only a light is required . 
Whoever says cloister , says marsh . 
Their putrescence is evident , their stagnation is unhealthy , their fermentation infects people with fever , and etiolates them their multiplication becomes a plague of Egypt . 
We cannot think without affright of those lands where fakirs , bonzes , santons , Greek monks , marabouts , talapoins , and dervishes multiply even like swarms of vermin . 
This said , the religious question remains . 
This question has certain mysterious , almost formidable sides may we be permitted to look at it fixedly . 
CHAPTER IV THE CONVENT FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF PRINCIPLES Men unite themselves and dwell in communities . 
By virtue of what right ? By virtue of the right of association . 
They shut themselves up at home . 
By virtue of what right ? By virtue of the right which every man has to open or shut his door . 
They do not come forth . 
By virtue of what right ? By virtue of the right to go and come , which implies the right to remain at home . 
There , at home , what do they do ? They speak in low tones they drop their eyes they toil . 
They renounce the world , towns , sensualities , pleasures , vanities , pride , interests . 
They are clothed in coarse woollen or coarse linen . 
Not one of them possesses in his own right anything whatever . 
On entering there , each one who was rich makes himself poor . 
What he has , he gives to all . 
He who was what is called noble , a gentleman and a lord , is the equal of him who was a peasant . 
The cell is identical for all . 
All undergo the same tonsure , wear the same frock , eat the same black bread , sleep on the same straw , die on the same ashes . 
The same sack on their backs , the same rope around their loins . 
If the decision has been to go barefoot , all go barefoot . 
There may be a prince among them that prince is the same shadow as the rest . 
Even family names have disappeared . 
They bear only first names . 
All are bowed beneath the equality of baptismal names . 
They have dissolved the carnal family , and constituted in their community a spiritual family . 
They have no other relatives than all men . 
They succor the poor , they care for the sick . 
They elect those whom they obey . 
They call each other my brother . 
You stop me and exclaim , But that is the ideal convent ! It is sufficient that it may be the possible convent , that I should take notice of it . 
Thence it results that , in the preceding book , I have spoken of a convent with respectful accents . 
Wherever there is a community , there is a commune where there is a commune , there is right . 
The monastery is the product of the formula Equality , Fraternity . 
Oh ! how grand is liberty ! And what a splendid transfiguration ! Liberty suffices to transform the monastery into a republic . 
But these men , or these women who are behind these four walls . 
They dress themselves in coarse woollen , they are equals , they call each other brothers , that is well but they do something else ? Yes . 
What ? They gaze on the darkness , they kneel , and they clasp their hands . 
What does this signify ? CHAPTER V PRAYER They pray . 
To whom ? To God . 
The I below is the soul the I on high is God . 
To place the infinity here below in contact , by the medium of thought , with the infinity on high , is called praying . 
Let us take nothing from the human mind to suppress is bad . 
We must reform and transform . 
Certain faculties in man are directed towards the Unknown thought , revery , prayer . 
The Unknown is an ocean . 
What is conscience ? It is the compass of the Unknown . 
Thought , revery , prayer , these are great and mysterious radiations . 
Whither go these majestic irradiations of the soul ? Into the shadow that is to say , to the light . 
The grandeur of democracy is to disown nothing and to deny nothing of humanity . 
Close to the right of the man , beside it , at the least , there exists the right of the soul . 
To crush fanaticism and to venerate the infinite , such is the law . 
Let us not confine ourselves to prostrating ourselves before the tree of creation , and to the contemplation of its branches full of stars . 
CHAPTER VI THE ABSOLUTE GOODNESS OF PRAYER With regard to the modes of prayer , all are good , provided that they are sincere . 
Turn your book upside down and be in the infinite . 
There is , as we know , a philosophy which denies the infinite . 
There is also a philosophy , pathologically classified , which denies the sun this philosophy is called blindness . 
To erect a sense which we lack into a source of truth , is a fine blind man's self sufficiency . 
The curious thing is the haughty , superior , and compassionate airs which this groping philosophy assumes towards the philosophy which beholds God . 
One fancies he hears a mole crying , I pity them with their sun ! There are , as we know , powerful and illustrious atheists . 
We salute them as philosophers , while inexorably denouncing their philosophy . 
The remarkable thing about it is , also , their facility in paying themselves off with words . 
To say the plant wills , instead of the plant grows this would be fecund in results , indeed , if we were to add the universe wills . 
Why ? Because it would come to this the plant wills , therefore it has an I the universe wills , therefore it has a God . 
To deny the will of the infinite , that is to say , God , is impossible on any other conditions than a denial of the infinite . 
The negation of the infinite leads straight to nihilism . 
Everything becomes a mental conception . 
With nihilism , no discussion is possible for the nihilist logic doubts the existence of its interlocutor , and is not quite sure that it exists itself . 
From its point of view , it is possible that it may be for itself , only a mental conception . 
Only , it does not perceive that all which it has denied it admits in the lump , simply by the utterance of the word , mind . 
In short , no way is open to the thought by a philosophy which makes all end in the monosyllable , No. To No there is only one reply , Yes . 
There is no such thing as nothingness . 
Man lives by affirmation even more than by bread . 
Even to see and to show does not suffice . 
Philosophy should be an energy it should have for effort and effect to ameliorate the condition of man . 
Socrates should enter into Adam and produce Marcus Aurelius in other words , the man of wisdom should be made to emerge from the man of felicity . 
Eden should be changed into a Lyceum . 
Science should be a cordial . 
To enjoy , what a sad aim , and what a paltry ambition ! The brute enjoys . 
Morality is a blossoming out of truths . 
The absolute should be practicable . 
It is necessary that the ideal should be breathable , drinkable , and eatable to the human mind . 
It is the ideal which has the right to say Take , this is my body , this is my blood . 
Wisdom is a holy communion . 
Philosophy should not be a corbel erected on mystery to gaze upon it at its ease , without any other result than that of being convenient to curiosity . 
Progress is the goal , the ideal is the type . 
What is this ideal ? It is God . 
Ideal , absolute , perfection , infinity identical words . 
But the right to live apart , even with its inconveniences and its abuses , insists on being stated and taken into account . 
Cenobitism is a human problem . 
A convent is a contradiction . 
Its object , salvation its means thereto , sacrifice . 
The convent is supreme egoism having for its result supreme abnegation . 
To abdicate with the object of reigning seems to be the device of monasticism . 
In the cloister , one suffers in order to enjoy . 
One draws a bill of exchange on death . 
One discounts in terrestrial gloom celestial light . 
In the cloister , hell is accepted in advance as a post obit on paradise . 
The taking of the veil or the frock is a suicide paid for with eternity . 
It does not seem to us , that on such a subject mockery is permissible . 
All about it is serious , the good as well as the bad . 
The just man frowns , but never smiles with a malicious sneer . 
We understand wrath , but not malice . 
CHAPTER VIII FAITH , LAW A few words more . 
We blame the church when she is saturated with intrigues , we despise the spiritual which is harsh toward the temporal but we everywhere honor the thoughtful man . 
We salute the man who kneels . 
A faith this is a necessity for man . 
Woe to him who believes nothing . 
One is not unoccupied because one is absorbed . 
There is visible labor and invisible labor . 
To contemplate is to labor , to think is to act . 
Folded arms toil , clasped hands work . 
A gaze fixed on heaven is a work . 
Thales remained motionless for four years . 
In our opinion , cenobites are not lazy men , and recluses are not idlers . 
To meditate on the Shadow is a serious thing . 
Without invalidating anything that we have just said , we believe that a perpetual memory of the tomb is proper for the living . 
On this point , the priest and the philosopher agree . 
The Abbe de la Trappe replies to Horace . 
To mingle with one's life a certain presence of the sepulchre , this is the law of the sage and it is the law of the ascetic . 
In this respect , the ascetic and the sage converge . 
There is a material growth we admit it . 
There is a moral grandeur we hold to that . 
And we add There is probably no work which is more useful . 
There certainly must be some who pray constantly for those who never pray at all . 
In our opinion the whole question lies in the amount of thought that is mingled with prayer . 
Leibnitz praying is grand , Voltaire adoring is fine . 
We are for religion as against religions . 
We are of the number who believe in the wretchedness of orisons , and the sublimity of prayer . 
The monastery is a renunciation . 
Sacrifice wrongly directed is still sacrifice . 
To mistake a grave error for a duty has a grandeur of its own . 
He had scaled the wall of the garden which formed the angle of the Rue Polonceau . 
Before he shut his eyes , Jean Valjean said I must remain here henceforth . 
This remark trotted through Fauchelevent's head all night long . 
To tell the truth , neither of them slept . 
Jean Valjean , feeling that he was discovered and that Javert was on his scent , understood that he and Cosette were lost if they returned to Paris . 
Then the new storm which had just burst upon him had stranded him in this cloister . 
Jean Valjean had , henceforth , but one thought , to remain there . 
On his side , Fauchelevent was cudgelling his brains . 
He began by declaring to himself that he understood nothing of the matter . 
How had M. Madeleine got there , when the walls were what they were ? Cloister walls are not to be stepped over . 
How did he get there with a child ? One cannot scale a perpendicular wall with a child in one's arms . 
Father Madeleine had an air which discouraged questions and besides , Fauchelevent said to himself One does not question a saint . 
M. Madeleine had preserved all his prestige in Fauchelevent's eyes . 
While in hiding , M. Madeleine had selected the convent as a refuge , and it was quite simple that he should wish to remain there . 
Fauchelevent saw them , touched them , spoke to them , and still did not believe it possible . 
The incomprehensible had just made its entrance into Fauchelevent's hut . 
Fauchelevent groped about amid conjectures , and could see nothing clearly but this M. Madeleine saved my life . 
This certainty alone was sufficient and decided his course . 
He said to himself It is my turn now . 
He added in his conscience M. Madeleine did not stop to deliberate when it was a question of thrusting himself under the cart for the purpose of dragging me out . 
He made up his mind to save M. Madeleine . 
Nevertheless , he put many questions to himself and made himself divers replies After what he did for me , would I save him if he were a thief ? Just the same . 
If he were an assassin , would I save him ? Just the same . 
Since he is a saint , shall I save him ? Just the same . 
So he took his resolve to devote himself to M. Madeleine . 
We have just called him a poor peasant of Picardy . 
That description is just , but incomplete . 
At the point of this story which we have now reached , a little of Father Fauchelevent's physiology becomes useful . 
He was a peasant , but he had been a notary , which added trickery to his cunning , and penetration to his ingenuousness . 
Having , through various causes , failed in his business , he had descended to the calling of a carter and a laborer . 
But , in spite of oaths and lashings , which horses seem to require , something of the notary had lingered in him . 
His defects and his vices , for he had some , were all superficial in short , his physiognomy was of the kind which succeeds with an observer . 
His aged face had none of those disagreeable wrinkles at the top of the forehead , which signify malice or stupidity . 
At daybreak , Father Fauchelevent opened his eyes , after having done an enormous deal of thinking , and beheld M. Madeleine seated on his truss of straw , and watching Cosette's slumbers . 
Fauchelevent sat up and said Now that you are here , how are you going to contrive to enter ? This remark summed up the situation and aroused Jean Valjean from his revery . 
The two men took counsel together . 
In the first place , said Fauchelevent , you will begin by not setting foot outside of this chamber , either you or the child . 
One step in the garden and we are done for . 
Monsieur Madeleine , resumed Fauchelevent , you have arrived at a very auspicious moment , I mean to say a very inauspicious moment one of the ladies is very ill . 
This will prevent them from looking much in our direction . 
It seems that she is dying . 
The prayers of the forty hours are being said . 
The whole community is in confusion . 
The one who is on the point of departure is a saint . 
In fact , we are all saints here all the difference between them and me is that they say our cell , and that I say my cabin . 
The prayers for the dying are to be said , and then the prayers for the dead . 
We shall be at peace here for to day but I will not answer for to morrow . 
And I add that the nuns never come near it . 
Well ? said Jean Valjean . 
The interrogation mark which accentuated this well signified it seems to me that one may remain concealed here ? It was to this interrogation point that Fauchelevent responded There are the little girls . 
What little girls ? asked Jean Valjean . 
Just as Fauchelevent opened his mouth to explain the words which he had uttered , a bell emitted one stroke . 
The nun is dead , said he . 
And he made a sign to Jean Valjean to listen . 
The bell struck a second time . 
It is the knell , Monsieur Madeleine . 
The bell will continue to strike once a minute for twenty four hours , until the body is taken from the church . 
You see , they play . 
At recreation hours it suffices to have a ball roll aside , to send them all hither , in spite of prohibitions , to hunt and rummage for it all about here . 
Who ? asked Jean Valjean . 
You would be very quickly discovered . 
They would shriek Oh ! a man ! There is no danger to day . 
There will be no recreation hour . 
The day will be entirely devoted to prayers . 
As I told you , a stroke each minute . 
It is the death knell . 
I understand , Father Fauchelevent . 
And Jean Valjean thought to himself Here is Cosette's education already provided . 
Fauchelevent exclaimed Pardine ! There are little girls indeed ! And they would bawl around you ! And they would rush off ! To be a man here is to have the plague . 
You see how they fasten a bell to my paw as though I were a wild beast . 
Jean Valjean fell into more and more profound thought . 
This convent would be our salvation , he murmured . 
Then he raised his voice Yes , the difficulty is to remain here . 
No , said Fauchelevent , the difficulty is to get out . 
Jean Valjean felt the blood rush back to his heart . 
To get out ! Yes , Monsieur Madeleine . 
In order to return here it is first necessary to get out . 
And after waiting until another stroke of the knell had sounded , Fauchelevent went on You must not be found here in this fashion . 
Whence come you ? For me , you fall from heaven , because I know you but the nuns require one to enter by the door . 
All at once they heard a rather complicated pealing from another bell . 
Ah ! said Fauchelevent , they are ringing up the vocal mothers . 
They are going to the chapter . 
They always hold a chapter when any one dies . 
People generally do die at daybreak . 
Father Fauchelevent , say that I fell from the sky . 
But I believe it , I believe it , retorted Fauchelevent . 
You have no need to tell me that . 
The good God must have taken you in his hand for the purpose of getting a good look at you close to , and then dropped you . 
Only , he meant to place you in a man's convent he made a mistake . 
Come , there goes another peal , that is to order the porter to go and inform the municipality that the dead doctor is to come here and view a corpse . 
All that is the ceremony of dying . 
These good ladies are not at all fond of that visit . 
A doctor is a man who does not believe in anything . 
Sometimes he lifts something else too . 
How quickly they have had the doctor summoned this time ! What is the matter ? Your little one is still asleep . 
What is her name ? Cosette . 
She is your daughter ? You are her grandfather , that is ? Yes . 
It will be easy enough for her to get out of here . 
I have my service door which opens on the courtyard . 
The porter opens I have my vintage basket on my back , the child is in it , I go out . 
Father Fauchelevent goes out with his basket that is perfectly natural . 
You will tell the child to keep very quiet . 
She will be under the cover . 
I will shout in the fruit seller's ear , that she is a niece of mine , and that she is to keep her for me until to morrow . 
Then the little one will re enter with you for I will contrive to have you re enter . 
But how will you manage to get out ? Jean Valjean shook his head . 
No one must see me , the whole point lies there , Father Fauchelevent . 
Find some means of getting me out in a basket , under cover , like Cosette . 
Fauchelevent scratched the lobe of his ear with the middle finger of his left hand , a sign of serious embarrassment . 
A third peal created a diversion . 
That is the dead doctor taking his departure , said Fauchelevent . 
He has taken a look and said She is dead , that is well . 
When the doctor has signed the passport for paradise , the undertaker's company sends a coffin . 
If it is a mother , the mothers lay her out if she is a sister , the sisters lay her out . 
After which , I nail her up . 
That forms a part of my gardener's duty . 
A gardener is a bit of a grave digger . 
She is placed in a lower hall of the church which communicates with the street , and into which no man may enter save the doctor of the dead . 
I don't count the undertaker's men and myself as men . 
It is in that hall that I nail up the coffin . 
The undertaker's men come and get it , and whip up , coachman ! that's the way one goes to heaven . 
They fetch a box with nothing in it , they take it away again with something in it . 
That's what a burial is like . 
A horizontal ray of sunshine lightly touched the face of the sleeping Cosette , who lay with her mouth vaguely open , and had the air of an angel drinking in the light . 
Jean Valjean had fallen to gazing at her . 
He was no longer listening to Fauchelevent . 
That one is not listened to is no reason for preserving silence . 
The good old gardener went on tranquilly with his babble The grave is dug in the Vaugirard cemetery . 
They declare that they are going to suppress that Vaugirard cemetery . 
It is an ancient cemetery which is outside the regulations , which has no uniform , and which is going to retire . 
It is a shame , for it is convenient . 
I have a friend there , Father Mestienne , the grave digger . 
The nuns here possess one privilege , it is to be taken to that cemetery at nightfall . 
There is a special permission from the Prefecture on their behalf . 
But how many events have happened since yesterday ! Mother Crucifixion is dead , and Father Madeleine Is buried , said Jean Valjean , smiling sadly . 
Goodness ! if you were here for good , it would be a real burial . 
A fourth peal burst out . 
Fauchelevent hastily detached the belled knee cap from its nail and buckled it on his knee again . 
This time it is for me . 
The Mother Prioress wants me . 
Good , now I am pricking myself on the tongue of my buckle . 
Monsieur Madeleine , don't stir from here , and wait for me . 
Something new has come up . 
If you are hungry , there is wine , bread and cheese . 
The door was the one leading to the parlor reserved for seeing the gardener on business . 
This parlor adjoined the chapter hall . 
The prioress , seated on the only chair in the parlor , was waiting for Fauchelevent . 
The gardener made a timid bow , and remained at the door of the cell . 
The prioress , who was telling her beads , raised her eyes and said Ah ! it is you , Father Fauvent . 
This abbreviation had been adopted in the convent . 
Father Fauvent , I have sent for you . 
Here I am , reverend Mother . 
I have something to say to you . 
And so have I , said Fauchelevent with a boldness which caused him inward terror , I have something to say to the very reverend Mother . 
The prioress stared at him . 
Ah ! you have a communication to make to me . 
Goodman Fauchelevent , the ex notary , belonged to the category of peasants who have assurance . 
A certain clever ignorance constitutes a force you do not distrust it , and you are caught by it . 
Fauchelevent had been a success during the something more than two years which he had passed in the convent . 
Always solitary and busied about his gardening , he had nothing else to do than to indulge his curiosity . 
As he was at a distance from all those veiled women passing to and fro , he saw before him only an agitation of shadows . 
By dint of attention and sharpness he had succeeded in clothing all those phantoms with flesh , and those corpses were alive for him . 
He was like a deaf man whose sight grows keener , and like a blind man whose hearing becomes more acute . 
Fauchelevent knew all and concealed all that constituted his art . 
The whole convent thought him stupid . 
A great merit in religion . 
The vocal mothers made much of Fauchelevent . 
He was a curious mute . 
Moreover , he was regular , and never went out except for well demonstrated requirements of the orchard and vegetable garden . 
This discretion of conduct had inured to his credit . 
But he did not abuse his knowledge . 
The congregation thought a great deal of him . 
Old , lame , blind to everything , probably a little deaf into the bargain , what qualities ! They would have found it difficult to replace him . 
The goodman , with the assurance of a person who feels that he is appreciated , entered into a rather diffuse and very deep rustic harangue to the reverend prioress . 
Yes , reverend Mother , replied Fauchelevent . 
The prioress , without adding a word , rose and entered the adjoining room , which was the hall of the chapter , and where the vocal mothers were probably assembled . 
CHAPTER III MOTHER INNOCENTE About a quarter of an hour elapsed . 
The prioress returned and seated herself once more on her chair . 
The two interlocutors seemed preoccupied . 
We will present a stenographic report of the dialogue which then ensued , to the best of our ability . 
Father Fauvent ! Reverend Mother ! Do you know the chapel ? I have a little cage there , where I hear the mass and the offices . 
And you have been in the choir in pursuance of your duties ? Two or three times . 
There is a stone to be raised . 
Heavy ? The slab of the pavement which is at the side of the altar . 
The slab which closes the vault ? Yes . 
It would be a good thing to have two men for it . 
Mother Ascension , who is as strong as a man , will help you . 
A woman is never a man . 
We have only a woman here to help you . 
Each one does what he can . 
Because Dom Mabillon gives four hundred and seventeen epistles of Saint Bernard , while Merlonus Horstius only gives three hundred and sixty seven , I do not despise Merlonus Horstius . 
Neither do I. Merit consists in working according to one's strength . 
A cloister is not a dock yard . 
And a woman is not a man . 
But my brother is the strong one , though ! And can you get a lever ? That is the only sort of key that fits that sort of door . 
There is a ring in the stone . 
I will put the lever through it . 
And the stone is so arranged that it swings on a pivot . 
That is good , reverend Mother . 
I will open the vault . 
And the four Mother Precentors will help you . 
And when the vault is open ? It must be closed again . 
Will that be all ? No. Give me your orders , very reverend Mother . 
Fauvent , we have confidence in you . 
I am here to do anything you wish . 
And to hold your peace about everything ! Yes , reverend Mother . 
When the vault is open I will close it again . 
But before that What , reverend Mother ? Something must be lowered into it . 
The prioress , after a pout of the under lip which resembled hesitation , broke it . 
Father Fauvent ! Reverend Mother ! You know that a mother died this morning ? No. Did you not hear the bell ? Nothing can be heard at the bottom of the garden . 
Really ? I can hardly distinguish my own signal . 
And then , the wind is not blowing in my direction this morning . 
Ah ! yes , now I hear the knell , reverend Mother . 
The mothers have taken her to the dead room , which opens on the church . 
No other man than you can or must enter that chamber . 
A fine sight it would be , to see a man enter the dead room ! More often ! Hey ? More often ! What do you say ? I say more often . 
More often than what ? Reverend Mother , I did not say more often than what , I said more often . 
Why do you say more often ? In order to speak like you , reverend Mother . 
But I did not say more often . 
At that moment , nine o'clock struck . 
At nine o'clock in the morning and at all hours , praised and adored be the most Holy Sacrament of the altar , said the prioress . 
It cut more often short . 
It is probable , that had it not been for this , the prioress and Fauchelevent would never have unravelled that skein . 
The prioress indulged in another little inward murmur , probably sacred , then raised her voice In her lifetime , Mother Crucifixion made converts after her death , she will perform miracles . 
She will ! replied Father Fauchelevent , falling into step , and striving not to flinch again . 
Father Fauvent , the community has been blessed in Mother Crucifixion . 
But without attaining to such happiness , Mother Crucifixion's death was very precious . 
She retained her consciousness to the very last moment . 
She spoke to us , then she spoke to the angels . 
She gave us her last commands . 
If you had a little more faith , and if you could have been in her cell , she would have cured your leg merely by touching it . 
We felt that she was regaining her life in God . 
There was something of paradise in that death . 
Fauchelevent thought that it was an orison which she was finishing . 
Father Fauvent , what the dead wish must be done . 
The prioress took off several beads of her chaplet . 
She went on I have consulted upon this point many ecclesiastics laboring in Our Lord , who occupy themselves in the exercises of the clerical life , and who bear wonderful fruit . 
Reverend Mother , you can hear the knell much better here than in the garden . 
Besides , she is more than a dead woman , she is a saint . 
Like yourself , reverend Mother . 
She slept in her coffin for twenty years , by express permission of our Holy Father , Pius VII . 
The one who crowned the Emp Buonaparte . 
For a clever man like Fauchelevent , this allusion was an awkward one . 
Fortunately , the prioress , completely absorbed in her own thoughts , did not hear it . 
Is this true ? Yes , reverend Mother . 
The blessed Mezzocane , Abbot of Aquila , wished to be buried beneath the gallows this was done . 
The dead must be obeyed . 
Can the contrary be affirmed ? For that matter , no , reverend Mother . 
The fact is attested by Plantavit de la Fosse . 
Several beads of the chaplet were told off , still in silence . 
The prioress resumed Father Fauvent , Mother Crucifixion will be interred in the coffin in which she has slept for the last twenty years . 
It is a continuation of her slumber . 
So I shall have to nail up that coffin ? Yes . 
And we are to reject the undertaker's coffin ? Precisely . 
I am at the orders of the very reverend community . 
The four Mother Precentors will assist you . 
In nailing up the coffin ? I do not need them . 
No. In lowering the coffin . 
Where ? Into the vault . 
What vault ? Under the altar . 
The vault under the altar ? Under the altar . 
But You will have an iron bar . 
Yes , but You will raise the stone with the bar by means of the ring . 
But The dead must be obeyed . 
She asked it of us that is to say , commanded us . 
Forbidden by men , enjoined by God . 
What if it became known ? We have confidence in you . 
Oh ! I am a stone in your walls . 
Think , Father Fauvent , if she were to work miracles here ! What a glory of God for the community ! And miracles issue from tombs . 
But , reverend Mother , if the agent of the sanitary commission Saint Benoit II . 
, in the matter of sepulture , resisted Constantine Pogonatus . 
But the inspector from the Prefecture The world is nothing in the presence of the cross . 
Martin , the eleventh general of the Carthusians , gave to his order this device Stat crux dum volvitur orbis . 
Amen , said Fauchelevent , who imperturbably extricated himself in this manner from the dilemma , whenever he heard Latin . 
Any audience suffices for a person who has held his peace too long . 
Who was Bernard ? The first abbot of Clairvaux . 
Fontaines in Burgundy is a country that is blest because it gave him birth . 
His father was named Tecelin , and his mother Alethe . 
, regulated the Temple , preached the crusade , performed two hundred and fifty miracles during his lifetime , and as many as thirty nine in one day . 
Who was Benoit ? He was the patriarch of Mont Cassin he was the second founder of the Saintete Claustrale , he was the Basil of the West . 
We have not even the right to give our dust to Jesus Christ ! Your sanitary department is a revolutionary invention . 
God subordinated to the commissary of police such is the age . 
Silence , Fauvent ! Fauchelevent was but ill at ease under this shower bath . 
The prioress continued No one doubts the right of the monastery to sepulture . 
Only fanatics and those in error deny it . 
We live in times of terrible confusion . 
We do not know that which it is necessary to know , and we know that which we should ignore . 
We are ignorant and impious . 
Others are so blasphemous as to compare the scaffold of Louis XVI . 
to the cross of Jesus Christ . 
Let us beware of God ! There is no longer just nor unjust . 
The name of Voltaire is known , but not the name of Cesar de Bus . 
Nevertheless , Cesar de Bus is a man of blessed memory , and Voltaire one of unblessed memory . 
The name of Father Coton is known , not because he was one of the three who urged the foundation of the Oratorie , but because he furnished Henri IV . 
, the Huguenot king , with the material for an oath . 
That which pleases people of the world in Saint Francois de Sales , is that he cheated at play . 
And then , religion is attacked . 
Why ? Because there have been bad priests , because Sagittaire , Bishop of Gap , was the brother of Salone , Bishop of Embrun , and because both of them followed Mommol . 
They shut their eyes to the truth . 
The most ferocious beasts are beasts which are blind . 
No one thinks of hell as a reality . 
Oh ! how wicked people are ! By order of the king signifies to day , by order of the revolution . 
One no longer knows what is due to the living or to the dead . 
A holy death is prohibited . 
Burial is a civil matter . 
Gauthier , Bishop of Chalons , held his own in this matter against Otho , Duke of Burgundy . 
The ancient magistracy agreed with him . 
In former times we had voices in the chapter , even on matters of the day . 
The Abbot of Citeaux , the general of the order , was councillor by right of birth to the parliament of Burgundy . 
We do what we please with our dead . 
I abhor psalm singers , I hate priors , I execrate heretics , but I should detest yet more any one who should maintain the contrary . 
One has only to read Arnoul Wion , Gabriel Bucelin , Trithemus , Maurolics , and Dom Luc d'Achery . 
The prioress took breath , then turned to Fauchelevent . 
Is it settled , Father Fauvent ? It is settled , reverend Mother . 
We may depend on you ? I will obey . 
I am entirely devoted to the convent . 
You will close the coffin . 
The sisters will carry it to the chapel . 
The office for the dead will then be said . 
Then we shall return to the cloister . 
Between eleven o'clock and midnight , you will come with your iron bar . 
All will be done in the most profound secrecy . 
There will be in the chapel only the four Mother Precentors , Mother Ascension and yourself . 
And the sister at the post ? She will not turn round . 
Besides , what the cloister knows the world learns not . 
The prioress went on You will remove your bell . 
It is not necessary that the sister at the post should perceive your presence . 
Reverend Mother ? What , Father Fauvent ? Has the doctor for the dead paid his visit ? He will pay it at four o'clock to day . 
The peal which orders the doctor for the dead to be summoned has already been rung . 
But you do not understand any of the peals ? I pay no attention to any but my own . 
That is well , Father Fauvent . 
Reverend Mother , a lever at least six feet long will be required . 
Where will you obtain it ? Where gratings are not lacking , iron bars are not lacking . 
I have my heap of old iron at the bottom of the garden . 
About three quarters of an hour before midnight do not forget . 
Reverend Mother ? What ? If you were ever to have any other jobs of this sort , my brother is the strong man for you . 
A perfect Turk ! You will do it as speedily as possible . 
I cannot work very fast . 
I am infirm that is why I require an assistant . 
To limp is no sin , and perhaps it is a blessing . 
, who combated Antipope Gregory and re established Benoit VIII . 
, has two surnames , the Saint and the Lame . 
Two surtouts are a good thing , murmured Fauchelevent , who really was a little hard of hearing . 
Now that I think of it , Father Fauvent , let us give a whole hour to it . 
That is not too much . 
Be near the principal altar , with your iron bar , at eleven o'clock . 
The office begins at midnight . 
Everything must have been completed a good quarter of an hour before that . 
I will do anything to prove my zeal towards the community . 
I am to nail up the coffin . 
At eleven o'clock exactly , I am to be in the chapel . 
The Mother Precentors will be there . 
Mother Ascension will be there . 
Two men would be better . 
However , never mind ! I shall have my lever . 
We will open the vault , we will lower the coffin , and we will close the vault again . 
After which , there will be no trace of anything . 
The government will have no suspicion . 
Thus all has been arranged , reverend Mother ? No ! What else remains ? The empty coffin remains . 
What is to be done with that coffin , Father Fauvent ? It will be given to the earth . 
Fauchelevent made , with his left hand , that sort of a gesture which dismisses a troublesome subject . 
Yes , but the bearers , when they place it in the hearse and lower it into the grave , will be sure to feel that there is nothing in it . 
Ah ! the de ! exclaimed Fauchelevent . 
The prioress began to make the sign of the cross , and looked fixedly at the gardener . 
The vil stuck fast in his throat . 
He made haste to improvise an expedient to make her forget the oath . 
I will put earth in the coffin , reverend Mother . 
That will produce the effect of a corpse . 
Earth , that is the same thing as man . 
So you will manage the empty coffin ? I will make that my special business . 
The prioress's face , up to that moment troubled and clouded , grew serene once more . 
She made the sign of a superior dismissing an inferior to him . 
Fauchelevent went towards the door . 
Moreover , Fauchelevent was in a dilemma . 
He took nearly a quarter of an hour to return to his cottage in the garden . 
Jean Valjean had placed her near the fire . 
We must go away from this house , but we shall return to it , and we shall be very happy here . 
The good man who lives here is going to carry you off on his back in that . 
You will wait for me at a lady's house . 
I shall come to fetch you . 
Obey , and say nothing , above all things , unless you want Madame Thenardier to get you again ! Cosette nodded gravely . 
Jean Valjean turned round at the noise made by Fauchelevent opening the door . 
Well ? Everything is arranged , and nothing is , said Fauchelevent . 
I have permission to bring you in but before bringing you in you must be got out . 
That's where the difficulty lies . 
It is easy enough with the child . 
You will carry her out ? And she will hold her tongue ? I answer for that . 
Fauchelevent grumbled , more to himself than to Jean Valjean There is another thing which bothers me . 
I have said that I would put earth in it . 
The men will bear it . 
You understand , Father Madeleine , the government will notice it . 
Jean Valjean stared him straight in the eye and thought that he was raving . 
Fauchelevent went on How the de uce are you going to get out ? It must all be done by to morrow morning . 
It is to morrow that I am to bring you in . 
Then he explained to Jean Valjean that this was his recompense for a service which he , Fauchelevent , was to render to the community . 
That it fell among his duties to take part in their burials , that he nailed up the coffins and helped the grave digger at the cemetery . 
That the police regulations forbade this , but that she was one of those dead to whom nothing is refused . 
That the prioress and the vocal mothers intended to fulfil the wish of the deceased . 
That it was so much the worse for the government . 
That he , Fauchelevent , was to nail up the coffin in the cell , raise the stone in the chapel , and lower the corpse into the vault . 
And that , by way of thanks , the prioress was to admit his brother to the house as a gardener , and his niece as a pupil . 
That his brother was M. Madeleine , and that his niece was Cosette . 
That the prioress had told him to bring his brother on the following evening , after the counterfeit interment in the cemetery . 
But that he could not bring M. Madeleine in from the outside if M. Madeleine was not outside . 
That that was the first problem . 
And then , that there was another the empty coffin . 
What is that empty coffin ? asked Jean Valjean . 
Fauchelevent replied The coffin of the administration . 
What coffin ? What administration ? A nun dies . 
The municipal doctor comes and says , A nun has died . 
The government sends a coffin . 
The next day it sends a hearse and undertaker's men to get the coffin and carry it to the cemetery . 
The undertaker's men will come and lift the coffin there will be nothing in it . 
A corpse ? I have none . 
No. What then ? A living person . 
What person ? Me ! said Jean Valjean . 
Fauchelevent , who was seated , sprang up as though a bomb had burst under his chair . 
You ! Why not ? Jean Valjean gave way to one of those rare smiles which lighted up his face like a flash from heaven in the winter . 
You know , Fauchelevent , what you have said Mother Crucifixion is dead . 
and I add and Father Madeleine is buried . 
Ah ! good , you can laugh , you are not speaking seriously . 
Very seriously , I must get out of this place . 
l have told you to find a basket , and a cover for me also , Well ? The basket will be of pine , and the cover a black cloth . 
In the first place , it will be a white cloth . 
Nuns are buried in white . 
Let it be a white cloth , then . 
You are not like other men , Father Madeleine . 
Jean Valjean went on The problem is to get out of here without being seen . 
But give me some information , in the first place . 
How is it managed ? Where is this coffin ? The empty one ? Yes . 
Down stairs , in what is called the dead room . 
It stands on two trestles , under the pall . 
How long is the coffin ? Six feet . 
What church ? The church in the street , the church which any one can enter . 
When does the porter open that door ? Only to allow the undertaker's men to enter , when they come to get the coffin . 
When the coffin has been taken out , the door is closed again . 
Who nails up the coffin ? I do . 
Who spreads the pall over it ? I do . 
Are you alone ? Not another man , except the police doctor , can enter the dead room . 
That is even written on the wall . 
At what time will the hearse come for the coffin to morrow ? About three o'clock in the afternoon . 
The burial will take place at the Vaugirard cemetery a little before nightfall . 
It is not very near . 
I will remain concealed in your tool closet all night and all the morning . 
And how about food ? I shall be hungry . 
I will bring you something . 
You can come and nail me up in the coffin at two o'clock . 
Fauchelevent recoiled and cracked his finger joints . 
Jean Valjean had been in worse straits than this . 
Any man who has been a prisoner understands how to contract himself to fit the diameter of the escape . 
The prisoner is subject to flight as the sick man is subject to a crisis which saves or kills him . 
An escape is a cure . 
Moreover , a coffin containing a living being , that convict's expedient , is also an imperial expedient . 
If we are to credit the monk Austin Castillejo , this was the means employed by Charles the Fifth , desirous of seeing the Plombes for the last time after his abdication . 
He had her brought into and carried out of the monastery of Saint Yuste in this manner . 
Fauchelevent , who had recovered himself a little , exclaimed But how will you manage to breathe ? I will breathe . 
In that box ! The mere thought of it suffocates me . 
You surely must have a gimlet , you will make a few holes here and there , around my mouth , and you will nail the top plank on loosely . 
Good ! And what if you should happen to cough or to sneeze ? A man who is making his escape does not cough or sneeze . 
And Jean Valjean added Father Fauchelevent , we must come to a decision I must either be caught here , or accept this escape through the hearse . 
Every one has noticed the taste which cats have for pausing and lounging between the two leaves of a half shut door . 
The over prudent , cats as they are , and because they are cats , sometimes incur more danger than the audacious . 
Fauchelevent was of this hesitating nature . 
But Jean Valjean's coolness prevailed over him in spite of himself . 
He grumbled Well , since there is no other means . 
Jean Valjean resumed The only thing which troubles me is what will take place at the cemetery . 
That is the very point that is not troublesome , exclaimed Fauchelevent . 
If you are sure of coming out of the coffin all right , I am sure of getting you out of the grave . 
The grave digger is a drunkard , and a friend of mine . 
An old fellow of the old school . 
The grave digger puts the corpses in the grave , and I put the grave digger in my pocket . 
I will tell you what will take place . 
They will arrive a little before dusk , three quarters of an hour before the gates of the cemetery are closed . 
The hearse will drive directly up to the grave . 
I shall follow that is my business . 
I shall have a hammer , a chisel , and some pincers in my pocket . 
The hearse halts , the undertaker's men knot a rope around your coffin and lower you down . 
The priest says the prayers , makes the sign of the cross , sprinkles the holy water , and takes his departure . 
I am left alone with Father Mestienne . 
He is my friend , I tell you . 
One of two things will happen , he will either be sober , or he will not be sober . 
If he is not drunk , I shall say to him Come and drink a bout while the Bon Coing the Good Quince is open . 
Then you have no longer any one but me to deal with . 
If he is drunk , I shall say to him Be off I will do your work for you . 
Off he goes , and I drag you out of the hole . 
Jean Valjean held out his hand , and Fauchelevent precipitated himself upon it with the touching effusion of a peasant . 
That is settled , Father Fauchelevent . 
Provided nothing goes wrong , thought Fauchelevent . 
In that case , it would be terrible . 
This hearse contained a coffin covered with a white cloth over which spread a large black cross , like a huge corpse with drooping arms . 
A mourning coach , in which could be seen a priest in his surplice , and a choir boy in his red cap , followed . 
Two undertaker's men in gray uniforms trimmed with black walked on the right and the left of the hearse . 
Behind it came an old man in the garments of a laborer , who limped along . 
The procession was going in the direction of the Vaugirard cemetery . 
The handle of a hammer , the blade of a cold chisel , and the antennae of a pair of pincers were visible , protruding from the man's pocket . 
The Vaugirard cemetery formed an exception among the cemeteries of Paris . 
The grave diggers being thus bound to service in the evening in summer and at night in winter , in this cemetery , they were subjected to a special discipline . 
The gates of the Paris cemeteries closed , at that epoch , at sundown , and this being a municipal regulation , the Vaugirard cemetery was bound by it like the rest . 
The carriage gate and the house door were two contiguous grated gates , adjoining a pavilion built by the architect Perronet , and inhabited by the door keeper of the cemetery . 
These gates , therefore , swung inexorably on their hinges at the instant when the sun disappeared behind the dome of the Invalides . 
A sort of letter box was constructed in the porter's window . 
The grave digger dropped his card into this box , the porter heard it fall , pulled the rope , and the small door opened . 
Instead of porte cochere and porte batarde . 
This cemetery , with its peculiarities outside the regulations , embarrassed the symmetry of the administration . 
It was suppressed a little later than . 
The Vaugirard cemetery was what may be called a faded cemetery . 
It was falling into disuse . 
Dampness was invading it , the flowers were deserting it . 
The bourgeois did not care much about being buried in the Vaugirard it hinted at poverty . 
Pere Lachaise if you please ! to be buried in Pere Lachaise is equivalent to having furniture of mahogany . 
It is recognized as elegant . 
The Vaugirard cemetery was a venerable enclosure , planted like an old fashioned French garden . 
Straight alleys , box , thuya trees , holly , ancient tombs beneath aged cypress trees , and very tall grass . 
In the evening it was tragic there . 
There were very lugubrious lines about it . 
The sun had not yet set when the hearse with the white pall and the black cross entered the avenue of the Vaugirard cemetery . 
The lame man who followed it was no other than Fauchelevent . 
Let us remark in passing , that the burial of Mother Crucifixion under the altar of the convent is a perfectly venial offence in our sight . 
It is one of the faults which resemble a duty . 
The nuns had committed it , not only without difficulty , but even with the applause of their own consciences . 
In the cloister , what is called the government is only an intermeddling with authority , an interference which is always questionable . 
In the first place , the rule as for the code , we shall see . 
Make as many laws as you please , men but keep them for yourselves . 
The tribute to Caesar is never anything but the remnants of the tribute to God . 
A prince is nothing in the presence of a principle . 
Fauchelevent limped along behind the hearse in a very contented frame of mind . 
His twin plots , the one with the nuns , the one for the convent , the other against it , the other with M. Madeleine , had succeeded , to all appearance . 
Jean Valjean's composure was one of those powerful tranquillities which are contagious . 
Fauchelevent no longer felt doubtful as to his success . 
What remained to be done was a mere nothing . 
Within the last two years , he had made good Father Mestienne , a chubby cheeked person , drunk at least ten times . 
He played with Father Mestienne . 
He did what he liked with him . 
He made him dance according to his whim . 
Mestienne's head adjusted itself to the cap of Fauchelevent's will . 
The permission for interment must be exhibited . 
The undertaker's man addressed himself to the porter of the cemetery . 
He was a sort of laboring man , who wore a waistcoat with large pockets and carried a mattock under his arm . 
Who are you ? he demanded . 
The man replied The grave digger . 
If a man could survive the blow of a cannon ball full in the breast , he would make the same face that Fauchelevent made . 
The grave digger ? Yes . 
You ? I. Father Mestienne is the grave digger . 
What ! He was ? He is dead . 
Fauchelevent had expected anything but this , that a grave digger could die . 
It is true , nevertheless , that grave diggers do die themselves . 
By dint of excavating graves for other people , one hollows out one's own . 
Fauchelevent stood there with his mouth wide open . 
He had hardly the strength to stammer But it is not possible ! It is so . 
But , he persisted feebly , Father Mestienne is the grave digger . 
After Napoleon , Louis XVIII . 
Peasant , my name is Gribier . 
Fauchelevent , who was deadly pale , stared at this Gribier . 
He was a tall , thin , livid , utterly funereal man . 
He had the air of an unsuccessful doctor who had turned grave digger . 
It is a jug of Surene , morbigou ! of real Paris Surene ? Ah ! So old Mestienne is dead ! I am sorry for it he was a jolly fellow . 
But you are a jolly fellow , too . 
Are you not , comrade ? We'll go and have a drink together presently . 
The man replied I have been a student . 
I passed my fourth examination . 
The hearse had set out again , and was rolling up the grand alley of the cemetery . 
Fauchelevent had slackened his pace . 
He limped more out of anxiety than from infirmity . 
The grave digger walked on in front of him . 
Fauchelevent passed the unexpected Gribier once more in review . 
He was one of those men who , though very young , have the air of age , and who , though slender , are extremely strong . 
I am the convent grave digger . 
My colleague , said the man . 
Fauchelevent , who was illiterate but very sharp , understood that he had to deal with a formidable species of man , with a fine talker . 
He muttered So Father Mestienne is dead . 
The good God consulted his note book which shows when the time is up . 
It was Father Mestienne's turn . 
Fauchelevent repeated mechanically The good God The good God , said the man authoritatively . 
According to the philosophers , the Eternal Father according to the Jacobins , the Supreme Being . 
Shall we not make each other's acquaintance ? stammered Fauchelevent . 
You are a peasant , I am a Parisian . 
People do not know each other until they have drunk together . 
He who empties his glass empties his heart . 
You must come and have a drink with me . 
Such a thing cannot be refused . 
Fauchelevent thought I am lost . 
They were only a few turns of the wheel distant from the small alley leading to the nuns' corner . 
The grave digger resumed Peasant , I have seven small children who must be fed . 
As they must eat , I cannot drink . 
And he added , with the satisfaction of a serious man who is turning a phrase well Their hunger is the enemy of my thirst . 
The hearse skirted a clump of cypress trees , quitted the grand alley , turned into a narrow one , entered the waste land , and plunged into a thicket . 
This indicated the immediate proximity of the place of sepulture . 
Fauchelevent slackened his pace , but he could not detain the hearse . 
Fortunately , the soil , which was light and wet with the winter rains , clogged the wheels and retarded its speed . 
He approached the grave digger . 
They have such a nice little Argenteuil wine , murmured Fauchelevent . 
Villager , retorted the man , I ought not be a grave digger . 
My father was a porter at the Prytaneum Town Hall . 
He destined me for literature . 
He had losses on 'change . 
I was obliged to renounce the profession of author . 
But I am still a public writer . 
So you are not a grave digger , then ? returned Fauchelevent , clutching at this branch , feeble as it was . 
The one does not hinder the other . 
Fauchelevent did not understand this last word . 
Come have a drink , said he . 
Here a remark becomes necessary . 
Fauchelevent , whatever his anguish , offered a drink , but he did not explain himself on one point who was to pay ? Generally , Fauchelevent offered and Father Mestienne paid . 
As for himself , Fauchelevent did not wish to pay , troubled as he was . 
The grave digger went on with a superior smile One must eat . 
I have accepted Father Mestienne's reversion . 
One gets to be a philosopher when one has nearly completed his classes . 
To the labor of the hand I join the labor of the arm . 
I have my scrivener's stall in the market of the Rue de Sevres . 
You know ? the Umbrella Market . 
All the cooks of the Red Cross apply to me . 
I scribble their declarations of love to the raw soldiers . 
In the morning I write love letters in the evening I dig graves . 
Such is life , rustic . 
The hearse was still advancing . 
Fauchelevent , uneasy to the last degree , was gazing about him on all sides . 
Great drops of perspiration trickled down from his brow . 
But , continued the grave digger , a man cannot serve two mistresses . 
I must choose between the pen and the mattock . 
The mattock is ruining my hand . 
The choir boy alighted from the mourning coach , then the priest . 
One of the small front wheels of the hearse had run up a little on a pile of earth , beyond which an open grave was visible . 
What a farce this is ! repeated Fauchelevent in consternation . 
CHAPTER VI BETWEEN FOUR PLANKS Who was in the coffin ? The reader knows . 
Jean Valjean had arranged things so that he could exist there , and he could almost breathe . 
It is a strange thing to what a degree security of conscience confers security of the rest . 
Every combination thought out by Jean Valjean had been progressing , and progressing favorably , since the preceding day . 
He , like Fauchelevent , counted on Father Mestienne . 
He had no doubt as to the end . 
Never was there a more critical situation , never more complete composure . 
The four planks of the coffin breathe out a kind of terrible peace . 
It seemed as though something of the repose of the dead entered into Jean Valjean's tranquillity . 
From the depths of that coffin he had been able to follow , and he had followed , all the phases of the terrible drama which he was playing with death . 
Shortly after Fauchelevent had finished nailing on the upper plank , Jean Valjean had felt himself carried out , then driven off . 
He knew , from the diminution in the jolting , when they left the pavements and reached the earth road . 
He had divined , from a dull noise , that they were crossing the bridge of Austerlitz . 
At the first halt , he had understood that they were entering the cemetery at the second halt , he said to himself Here is the grave . 
Then he experienced a giddiness . 
The undertaker's man and the grave digger had probably allowed the coffin to lose its balance , and had lowered the head before the foot . 
He recovered himself fully when he felt himself horizontal and motionless . 
He had just touched the bottom . 
He had a certain sensation of cold . 
A voice rose above him , glacial and solemn . 
A child's voice said De profundis . 
The grave voice began again Requiem aeternam dona ei , Domine . 
The child's voice responded Et lux perpetua luceat ei . 
He heard something like the gentle patter of several drops of rain on the plank which covered him . 
It was probably the holy water . 
He thought This will be over soon now . 
Patience for a little while longer . 
The priest will take his departure . 
Fauchelevent will take Mestienne off to drink . 
Then Fauchelevent will return alone , and I shall get out . 
That will be the work of a good hour . 
The grave voice resumed Requiescat in pace . 
And the child's voice said Amen . 
Jean Valjean strained his ears , and heard something like retreating footsteps . 
There , they are going now , thought he . 
All at once , he heard over his head a sound which seemed to him to be a clap of thunder . 
It was a shovelful of earth falling on the coffin . 
One of the holes through which he breathed had just been stopped up . 
A third shovelful of earth fell . 
There are things which are too strong for the strongest man . 
CHAPTER VII IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND THE ORIGIN OF THE SAYING DON'T LOSE THE CARD This is what had taken place above the coffin in which lay Jean Valjean . 
Then Fauchelevent took a supreme resolve . 
What wine ? That Argenteuil wine . 
Where is the Argenteuil ? At the Bon Coing . 
Go to the devil ! said the grave digger . 
And he flung a shovelful of earth on the coffin . 
The coffin gave back a hollow sound . 
Fauchelevent felt himself stagger and on the point of falling headlong into the grave himself . 
And he seized the man's arm . 
Listen to me , comrade . 
I am the convent grave digger , I have come to help you . 
It is a business which can be performed at night . 
Let us begin , then , by going for a drink . 
After work , never before . 
And he flourished his shovel briskly . 
It is Argenteuil wine , at six . 
Oh , come , said the grave digger , you are a bell ringer . 
Ding dong , ding dong , that's all you know how to say . 
And he threw in a second shovelful . 
Fauchelevent had reached a point where he no longer knew what he was saying . 
Come along and drink , he cried , since it is I who pays the bill . 
When we have put the child to bed , said the grave digger . 
He flung in a third shovelful . 
At that moment , as he loaded his shovel , the grave digger bent over , and the pocket of his waistcoat gaped . 
Fauchelevent's wild gaze fell mechanically into that pocket , and there it stopped . 
The sun was not yet hidden behind the horizon there was still light enough to enable him to distinguish something white at the bottom of that yawning pocket . 
The sum total of lightning that the eye of a Picard peasant can contain , traversed Fauchelevent's pupils . 
An idea had just occurred to him . 
The man sent a fourth shovelful tumbling into the grave . 
What card ? The sun is on the point of setting . 
That's good , it is going to put on its nightcap . 
The gate of the cemetery will close immediately . 
Well , what then ? Have you your card ? Ah ! my card ? said the grave digger . 
And he fumbled in his pocket . 
Having searched one pocket , he proceeded to search the other . 
He passed on to his fobs , explored the first , returned to the second . 
Why , no , said he , I have not my card . 
I must have forgotten it . 
Fifteen francs fine , said Fauchelevent . 
The grave digger turned green . 
Green is the pallor of livid people . 
Ah ! Jesus mon Dieu bancroche a bas la lune ! he exclaimed . 
Fifteen francs fine ! Jesus my God bandy leg down with the moon ! Three pieces of a hundred sous , said Fauchelevent . 
The grave digger dropped his shovel . 
Ah , come now , conscript , said Fauchelevent , none of this despair . 
There is no question of committing suicide and benefiting the grave . 
Fifteen francs is fifteen francs , and besides , you may not be able to pay it . 
I am an old hand , you are a new one . 
I know all the ropes and the devices . 
I will give you some friendly advice . 
One thing is clear , the sun is on the point of setting , it is touching the dome now , the cemetery will be closed in five minutes more . 
That is true , replied the man . 
In that case , a fine of fifteen francs . 
Where do you live ? A couple of steps from the barrier , a quarter of an hour from here . 
You have just time to get out by taking to your heels at your best speed . 
Once outside the gate , you gallop home , you get your card , you return , the cemetery porter admits you . 
As you have your card , there will be nothing to pay . 
And you will bury your corpse . 
I'll watch it for you in the meantime , so that it shall not run away . 
I am indebted to you for my life , peasant . 
The grave digger , overwhelmed with gratitude , shook his hand and set off on a run . 
Fauchelevent was seized with a shudder . 
He tumbled rather than climbed into the grave , flung himself on the head of the coffin and cried Are you there ? Silence in the coffin . 
Fauchelevent , hardly able to draw his breath for trembling , seized his cold chisel and his hammer , and pried up the coffin lid . 
Jean Valjean's face appeared in the twilight it was pale and his eyes were closed . 
Fauchelevent's hair rose upright on his head , he sprang to his feet , then fell back against the side of the grave , ready to swoon on the coffin . 
He stared at Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean lay there pallid and motionless . 
He soliloquized the while , for it is an error to suppose that the soliloquy is unnatural . 
Powerful emotion often talks aloud . 
It is Father Mestienne's fault . 
Father Madeleine ! He is in the coffin . 
One should not do such things . 
Father Madeleine ! Father Madeleine ! Father Madeleine ! Madeleine ! Monsieur Madeleine ! Monsieur le Maire ! He does not hear me . 
Now get out of this scrape if you can ! And he tore his hair . 
A grating sound became audible through the trees in the distance . 
It was the cemetery gate closing . 
Fauchelevent bent over Jean Valjean , and all at once he bounded back and recoiled so far as the limits of a grave permit . 
Jean Valjean's eyes were open and gazing at him . 
To see a corpse is alarming , to behold a resurrection is almost as much so . 
I fell asleep , said Jean Valjean . 
And he raised himself to a sitting posture . 
Fauchelevent fell on his knees . 
Just , good Virgin ! How you frightened me ! Then he sprang to his feet and cried Thanks , Father Madeleine ! Jean Valjean had merely fainted . 
The fresh air had revived him . 
Joy is the ebb of terror . 
Fauchelevent found almost as much difficulty in recovering himself as Jean Valjean had . 
So you are not dead ! Oh ! How wise you are ! I called you so much that you came back . 
When I saw your eyes shut , I said Good ! there he is , stifled , I should have gone raving mad , mad enough for a strait jacket . 
They would have put me in Bicetre . 
This remark recalled Fauchelevent thoroughly to reality , and there was pressing need of it . 
Let us get out of here quickly , exclaimed Fauchelevent . 
He fumbled in his pocket , and pulled out a gourd with which he had provided himself . 
But first , take a drop , said he . 
The flask finished what the fresh air had begun , Jean Valjean swallowed a mouthful of brandy , and regained full possession of his faculties . 
He got out of the coffin , and helped Fauchelevent to nail on the lid again . 
Three minutes later they were out of the grave . 
Moreover , Fauchelevent was perfectly composed . 
The arrival of the grave digger Gribier was not to be apprehended . 
That conscript was at home busily engaged in looking for his card , and at some difficulty in finding it in his lodgings , since it was in Fauchelevent's pocket . 
Without a card , he could not get back into the cemetery . 
Fauchelevent took the shovel , and Jean Valjean the pick axe , and together they buried the empty coffin . 
When the grave was full , Fauchelevent said to Jean Valjean Let us go . 
I will keep the shovel do you carry off the mattock . 
Jean Valjean experienced rome difficulty in moving and in walking . 
He had stiffened himself in that coffin , and had become a little like a corpse . 
The rigidity of death had seized upon him between those four planks . 
He had , in a manner , to thaw out , from the tomb . 
You are benumbed , said Fauchelevent . 
It is a pity that I have a game leg , for otherwise we might step out briskly . 
Bah ! replied Jean Valjean , four paces will put life into my legs once more . 
They set off by the alleys through which the hearse had passed . 
How well everything is going ! said Fauchelevent what a capital idea that was of yours , Father Madeleine ! They passed the Vaugirard barrier in the simplest manner in the world . 
In the neighborhood of the cemetery , a shovel and pick are equal to two passports . 
The Rue Vaugirard was deserted . 
Father Madeleine , said Fauchelevent as they went along , and raising his eyes to the houses , Your eyes are better than mine . 
Here it is , said Jean Valjean . 
There is no one in the street , said Fauchelevent . 
Give me your mattock and wait a couple of minutes for me . 
A voice replied Come in . 
The grave digger's dwelling was , like all such wretched habitations , an unfurnished and encumbered garret . 
In a corner , on a tattered fragment which had been a piece of an old carpet , a thin woman and a number of children were piled in a heap . 
The whole of this poverty stricken interior bore traces of having been overturned . 
One would have said that there had been an earthquake for one . 
He wore an air of desperation . 
But Fauchelevent was in too great a hurry to terminate this adventure to take any notice of this sad side of his success . 
He entered and said I have brought you back your shovel and pick . 
Gribier gazed at him in stupefaction . 
Is it you , peasant ? And to morrow morning you will find your card with the porter of the cemetery . 
And he laid the shovel and mattock on the floor . 
What is the meaning of this ? demanded Gribier . 
There you have it , conscript . 
Thanks , villager ! exclaimed Gribier , radiant . 
The next time I will pay for the drinks . 
CHAPTER VIII A SUCCESSFUL INTERROGATORY An hour later , in the darkness of night , two men and a child presented themselves at No. Rue Petit Picpus . 
The elder of the men lifted the knocker and rapped . 
They were Fauchelevent , Jean Valjean , and Cosette . 
The two old men had gone to fetch Cosette from the fruiterer's in the Rue du Chemin Vert , where Fauchelevent had deposited her on the preceding day . 
Cosette had passed these twenty four hours trembling silently and understanding nothing . 
She trembled to such a degree that she wept . 
She had neither eaten nor slept . 
The worthy fruit seller had plied her with a hundred questions , without obtaining any other reply than a melancholy and unvarying gaze . 
Cosette had betrayed nothing of what she had seen and heard during the last two days . 
She divined that they were passing through a crisis . 
She was deeply conscious that it was necessary to be good . 
Who has not experienced the sovereign power of those two words , pronounced with a certain accent in the ear of a terrified little being Say nothing ! Fear is mute . 
Moreover , no one guards a secret like a child . 
Fauchelevent belonged to the convent and knew the pass words . 
Thus was solved the double and alarming problem of how to get out and how to get in . 
The prioress , rosary in hand , was waiting for them . 
A vocal mother , with her veil lowered , stood beside her . 
A discreet candle lighted , one might almost say , made a show of lighting the parlor . 
The prioress passed Jean Valjean in review . 
There is nothing which examines like a downcast eye . 
Then she questioned him You are the brother ? Yes , reverend Mother , replied Fauchelevent . 
What is your name ? Fauchelevent replied Ultime Fauchelevent . 
He really had had a brother named Ultime , who was dead . 
Where do you come from ? Fauchelevent replied From Picquigny , near Amiens . 
What is your age ? Fauchelevent replied Fifty . 
What is your profession ? Fauchelevent replied Gardener . 
Are you a good Christian ? Fauchelevent replied Every one is in the family . 
Is this your little girl ? Fauchelevent replied Yes , reverend Mother . 
You are her father ? Fauchelevent replied Her grandfather . 
The vocal mother said to the prioress in a low voice He answers well . 
Jean Valjean had not uttered a single word . 
The prioress looked attentively at Cosette , and said half aloud to the vocal mother She will grow up ugly . 
Two will be required now . 
On the following day , therefore , two bells were audible in the garden , and the nuns could not resist the temptation to raise the corner of their veils . 
At the extreme end of the garden , under the trees , two men , Fauvent and another man , were visible as they dug side by side . 
Their silence was broken to the extent of saying to each other He is an assistant gardener . 
The vocal mothers added He is a brother of Father Fauvent . 
Jean Valjean was , in fact , regularly installed he had his belled knee cap henceforth he was official . 
His name was Ultime Fauchelevent . 
The most powerful determining cause of his admission had been the prioress's observation upon Cosette She will grow up ugly . 
The prioress , that pronounced prognosticator , immediately took a fancy to Cosette and gave her a place in the school as a charity pupil . 
There is nothing that is not strictly logical about this . 
Hence a lively taste for plain girls . 
As for the convent , its gratitude to Fauchelevent was very great . 
Fauchelevent became the best of servitors and the most precious of gardeners . 
On leaving the convent , the archbishop mentioned it with approval , and in a whisper to M. de Latil , Monsieur's confessor , afterwards Archbishop of Reims and Cardinal . 
This admiration for Fauchelevent became widespread , for it made its way to Rome . 
We have seen a note addressed by the then reigning Pope , Leo XII . 
Nothing of this triumph reached Fauchelevent in his hut he went on grafting , weeding , and covering up his melon beds , without in the least suspecting his excellences and his sanctity . 
CHAPTER IX CLOISTERED Cosette continued to hold her tongue in the convent . 
It was quite natural that Cosette should think herself Jean Valjean's daughter . 
Moreover , as she knew nothing , she could say nothing , and then , she would not have said anything in any case . 
As we have just observed , nothing trains children to silence like unhappiness . 
Cosette had suffered so much , that she feared everything , even to speak or to breathe . 
A single word had so often brought down an avalanche upon her . 
She had hardly begun to regain her confidence since she had been with Jean Valjean . 
She speedily became accustomed to the convent . 
Only she regretted Catherine , but she dared not say so . 
Once , however , she did say to Jean Valjean Father , if I had known , I would have brought her away with me . 
Cosette had been obliged , on becoming a scholar in the convent , to don the garb of the pupils of the house . 
Jean Valjean succeeded in getting them to restore to him the garments which she laid aside . 
This was the same mourning suit which he had made her put on when she had quitted the Thenardiers' inn . 
It was not very threadbare even now . 
He set this valise on a chair near his bed , and he always carried the key about his person . 
The nuns did not adopt the name of Ultime they called Jean Valjean the other Fauvent . 
Moreover , it was well for Jean Valjean that he kept close and did not stir out . 
Javert watched the quarter for more than a month . 
This convent was for Jean Valjean like an island surrounded by gulfs . 
Henceforth , those four walls constituted his world . 
He saw enough of the sky there to enable him to preserve his serenity , and Cosette enough to remain happy . 
A very sweet life began for him . 
He inhabited the old hut at the end of the garden , in company with Fauchelevent . 
The principal one had been given up , by force , for Jean Valjean had opposed it in vain , to M. Madeleine , by Father Fauchelevent . 
Jean Valjean worked in the garden every day and made himself very useful . 
He had formerly been a pruner of trees , and he gladly found himself a gardener once more . 
It will be remembered that he knew all sorts of secrets and receipts for agriculture . 
He turned these to advantage . 
Almost all the trees in the orchard were ungrafted , and wild . 
He budded them and made them produce excellent fruit . 
Cosette had permission to pass an hour with him every day . 
As the sisters were melancholy and he was kind , the child made comparisons and adored him . 
At the appointed hour she flew to the hut . 
When she entered the lowly cabin , she filled it with paradise . 
Jean Valjean blossomed out and felt his happiness increase with the happiness which he afforded Cosette . 
The joy which we inspire has this charming property , that , far from growing meagre , like all reflections , it returns to us more radiant than ever . 
At recreation hours , Jean Valjean watched her running and playing in the distance , and he distinguished her laugh from that of the rest . 
Cosette's face had even undergone a change , to a certain extent . 
The gloom had disappeared from it . 
A smile is the same as sunshine it banishes winter from the human countenance . 
God has his own ways , moreover the convent contributed , like Cosette , to uphold and complete the Bishop's work in Jean Valjean . 
It is certain that virtue adjoins pride on one side . 
A bridge built by the devil exists there . 
Who knows ? He might have ended by returning very gradually to hatred . 
The convent stopped him on that downward path . 
This was the second place of captivity which he had seen . 
Sometimes he crossed his arms and leaned on his hoe , and slowly descended the endless spirals of revery . 
Then his mind reverted to the beings whom he had under his eyes . 
Their names , also , had vanished from among men they no longer existed except under austere appellations . 
The others were men these were women . 
What had those men done ? They had stolen , violated , pillaged , murdered , assassinated . 
They were bandits , counterfeiters , poisoners , incendiaries , murderers , parricides . 
What had these women done ? They had done nothing whatever . 
Perfect innocence , almost caught up into heaven in a mysterious assumption , attached to the earth by virtue , already possessing something of heaven through holiness . 
On the one hand , confidences over crimes , which are exchanged in whispers on the other , the confession of faults made aloud . 
And what crimes ! And what faults ! On the one hand , miasms on the other , an ineffable perfume . 
There , darkness here , the shadow but a shadow filled with gleams of light , and of gleams full of radiance . 
Two strongholds of slavery but in the first , deliverance possible , a legal limit always in sight , and then , escape . 
In the second , perpetuity the sole hope , at the distant extremity of the future , that faint light of liberty which men call death . 
In the first , men are bound only with chains in the other , chained by faith . 
What flowed from the first ? An immense curse , the gnashing of teeth , hatred , desperate viciousness , a cry of rage against human society , a sarcasm against heaven . 
What results flowed from the second ? Blessings and love . 
And in these two places , so similar yet so unlike , these two species of beings who were so very unlike , were undergoing the same work , expiation . 
Jean Valjean understood thoroughly the expiation of the former that personal expiation , the expiation for one's self . 
Here all personal theory is withheld we are only the narrator we place ourselves at Jean Valjean's point of view , and we translate his impressions . 
Again he beheld gratings , bolts , iron bars to guard whom ? Angels . 
These lofty walls which he had seen around tigers , he now beheld once more around lambs . 
This was a place of expiation , and not of punishment and yet , it was still more austere , more gloomy , and more pitiless than the other . 
These virgins were even more heavily burdened than the convicts . 
Why ? When he thought on these things , all that was within him was lost in amazement before this mystery of sublimity . 
In these meditations , his pride vanished . 
He scrutinized his own heart in all manner of ways he felt his pettiness , and many a time he wept . 
All that had entered into his life for the last six months had led him back towards the Bishop's holy injunctions Cosette through love , the convent through humility . 
Thus he prayed as he knelt before the sister . 
It seemed as though he dared not kneel directly before God . 
His whole heart melted in gratitude , and he loved more and more . 
Many years passed in this manner Cosette was growing up . 
The end of Volume II . 
PARIS STUDIED IN ITS ATOM CHAPTER I PARVULUS Paris has a child , and the forest has a bird the bird is called the sparrow the child is called the gamin . 
Homuncio , Plautus would say . 
This little being is joyous . 
He has not food every day , and he goes to the play every evening , if he sees good . 
He has no shirt on his body , no shoes on his feet , no roof over his head he is like the flies of heaven , who have none of these things . 
This is because he has in his heart a pearl , innocence and pearls are not to be dissolved in mud . 
So long as man is in his childhood , God wills that he shall be innocent . 
If one were to ask that enormous city What is this ? she would reply It is my little one . 
CHAPTER II SOME OF HIS PARTICULAR CHARACTERISTICS The gamin the street Arab of Paris is the dwarf of the giant . 
This curious money , which receives the name of loques rags has an invariable and well regulated currency in this little Bohemia of children . 
The search for these deaf things among the stones is a joy of formidable nature . 
Another pleasure consists in suddenly prying up a paving stone , and taking a look at the wood lice . 
Each region of Paris is celebrated for the interesting treasures which are to be found there . 
There are ear wigs in the timber yards of the Ursulines , there are millepeds in the Pantheon , there are tadpoles in the ditches of the Champs de Mars . 
As far as sayings are concerned , this child has as many of them as Talleyrand . 
He is no less cynical , but he is more honest . 
He is endowed with a certain indescribable , unexpected joviality he upsets the composure of the shopkeeper with his wild laughter . 
He ranges boldly from high comedy to farce . 
Among those who accompany the dead there is a doctor . 
Hey there ! shouts some street Arab , how long has it been customary for doctors to carry home their own work ? Another is in a crowd . 
On crossing that magic threshold , he becomes transfigured he was the street Arab , he becomes the titi . 
Theatres are a sort of ship turned upside down with the keel in the air . 
It is in that keel that the titi huddle together . 
The titi is to the gamin what the moth is to the larva the same being endowed with wings and soaring . 
Chicken slang allusion to the noise made in calling poultry . 
Bestow on an individual the useless and deprive him of the necessary , and you have the gamin . 
The gamin is not devoid of literary intuition . 
His tendency , and we say it with the proper amount of regret , would not constitute classic taste . 
He is not very academic by nature . 
Thus , to give an example , the popularity of Mademoiselle Mars among that little audience of stormy children was seasoned with a touch of irony . 
The gamin called her Mademoiselle Muche hide yourself . 
The gamin of Paris is Rabelais in this youth . 
He is not content with his trousers unless they have a watch pocket . 
It is not that he is prosaic far from that but he replaces the solemn vision by the farcical phantasmagoria . 
Paris alone has this in its natural history . 
The whole of the monarchy is contained in the lounger the whole of anarchy in the gamin . 
This pale child of the Parisian faubourgs lives and develops , makes connections , grows supple in suffering , in the presence of social realities and of human things , a thoughtful witness . 
He thinks himself heedless and he is not . 
He looks and is on the verge of laughter he is on the verge of something else also . 
Whoever you may be , if your name is Prejudice , Abuse , Ignorance , Oppression , Iniquity , Despotism , Injustice , Fanaticism , Tyranny , beware of the gaping gamin . 
The little fellow will grow up . 
Of what clay is he made ? Of the first mud that comes to hand . 
A handful of dirt , a breath , and behold Adam . 
It suffices for a God to pass by . 
A God has always passed over the street Arab . 
Fortune labors at this tiny being . 
By the word fortune we mean chance , to some extent . 
That pigmy kneaded out of common earth , ignorant , unlettered , giddy , vulgar , low . 
CHAPTER V HIS FRONTIERS The gamin loves the city , he also loves solitude , since he has something of the sage in him . 
Urbis amator , like Fuscus ruris amator , like Flaccus . 
To study the suburbs is to study the amphibious animal . 
Hence , in these not very attractive places , indelibly stamped by the passing stroller with the epithet melancholy , the apparently objectless promenades of the dreamer . 
He who writes these lines has long been a prowler about the barriers of Paris , and it is for him a source of profound souvenirs . 
The spot where a plain effects its junction with a city is always stamped with a certain piercing melancholy . 
Nature and humanity both appeal to you at the same time there . 
Local originalities there make their appearance . 
All of them are little ones who have made their escape from poor families . 
The outer boulevard is their breathing space the suburbs belong to them . 
There they are eternally playing truant . 
There they innocently sing their repertory of dirty songs . 
These encounters with strange children are one of the charming and at the same time poignant graces of the environs of Paris . 
They can be seen devouring cherries among the wheat . 
In the evening they can be heard laughing . 
Paris , centre , banlieue , circumference this constitutes all the earth to those children . 
They never venture beyond this . 
They can no more escape from the Parisian atmosphere than fish can escape from the water . 
stray children abounded in Paris . 
One of these nests , which has become famous , produced the swallows of the bridge of Arcola . 
This is , moreover , the most disastrous of social symptoms . 
All crimes of the man begin in the vagabondage of the child . 
Let us make an exception in favor of Paris , nevertheless . 
In a relative measure , and in spite of the souvenir which we have just recalled , the exception is just . 
To breathe Paris preserves the soul . 
This is called , for this sad thing has given rise to an expression , to be cast on the pavements of Paris . 
Let it be said by the way , that this abandonment of children was not discouraged by the ancient monarchy . 
A little of Egypt and Bohemia in the lower regions suited the upper spheres , and compassed the aims of the powerful . 
The hatred of instruction for the children of the people was a dogma . 
What is the use of half lights ? Such was the countersign . 
Now , the erring child is the corollary of the ignorant child . 
Besides this , the monarchy sometimes was in need of children , and in that case it skimmed the streets . 
, not to go any further back , the king rightly desired to create a fleet . 
The idea was a good one . 
But let us consider the means . 
Therefore , galleys were necessary but the galley is moved only by the galley slave hence , galley slaves were required . 
Colbert had the commissioners of provinces and the parliaments make as many convicts as possible . 
The magistracy showed a great deal of complaisance in the matter . 
A man kept his hat on in the presence of a procession it was a Huguenot attitude he was sent to the galleys . 
A child was encountered in the streets provided that he was fifteen years of age and did not know where he was to sleep , he was sent to the galleys . 
children disappeared in Paris the police carried them off , for what mysterious purpose no one knew . 
People whispered with terror monstrous conjectures as to the king's baths of purple . 
Barbier speaks ingenuously of these things . 
It sometimes happened that the exempts of the guard , when they ran short of children , took those who had fathers . 
The fathers , in despair , attacked the exempts . 
In that case , the parliament intervened and had some one hung . 
Who ? The exempts ? No , the fathers . 
CHAPTER VII THE GAMIN SHOULD HAVE HIS PLACE IN THE CLASSIFICATIONS OF INDIA The body of street Arabs in Paris almost constitutes a caste . 
One might almost say Not every one who wishes to belong to it can do so . 
This word gamin was printed for the first time , and reached popular speech through the literary tongue , in . 
It is in a little work entitled Claude Gueux that this word made its appearance . 
The word passed into circulation . 
The elements which constitute the consideration of the gamins for each other are very various . 
But if the peasant's whole passivity lies in this saying , the whole of the free thinking anarchy of the brat of the faubourgs is , assuredly , contained in this other saying . 
A man condemned to death is listening to his confessor in the tumbrel . 
The child of Paris exclaims He is talking to his black cap ! Oh , the sneak ! A certain audacity on matters of religion sets off the gamin . 
To be strong minded is an important item . 
To be present at executions constitutes a duty . 
He shows himself at the guillotine , and he laughs . 
, The Last Mouthful , etc . 
The gamin is born a tiler as he is born a mariner . 
A roof inspires him with no more fear than a mast . 
There is no festival which comes up to an execution on the Place de Greve . 
Samson and the Abbe Montes are the truly popular names . 
They hoot at the victim in order to encourage him . 
Lacenaire , when a gamin , on seeing the hideous Dautin die bravely , uttered these words which contain a future I was jealous of him . 
In the brotherhood of gamins Voltaire is not known , but Papavoine is . 
Politicians are confused with assassins in the same legend . 
They have a tradition as to everybody's last garment . 
Don't reproach each other for your basket , shouted a gamin to them . 
Another , in order to get a look at Debacker as he passed , and being too small in the crowd , caught sight of the lantern on the quay and climbed it . 
A gendarme stationed opposite frowned . 
Let me climb up , m'sieu le gendarme , said the gamin . 
And , to soften the heart of the authorities he added I will not fall . 
I don't care if you do , retorted the gendarme . 
In the brotherhood of gamins , a memorable accident counts for a great deal . 
One reaches the height of consideration if one chances to cut one's self very deeply , to the very bone . 
The fist is no mediocre element of respect . 
One of the things that the gamin is fondest of saying is I am fine and strong , come now ! To be left handed renders you very enviable . 
A squint is highly esteemed . 
, helped the gamin , finished the pear , and gave the child a louis , saying The pear is on that also . 
A certain state of violence pleases him . 
One day , in the Rue de l'Universite , one of these scamps was putting his thumb to his nose at the carriage gate of No. . 
Why are you doing that at the gate ? a passer by asked . 
The boy replied There is a cure there . 
It was there , in fact , that the Papal Nuncio lived . 
is represented in comic pictures of that day as having a pear shaped head . 
There are two things to which he plays Tantalus , and which he always desires without ever attaining them to overthrow the government , and to get his trousers sewed up again . 
The gamin in his perfect state possesses all the policemen of Paris , and can always put the name to the face of any one which he chances to meet . 
He can tell them off on the tips of his fingers . 
He studies their habits , and he has special notes on each one of them . 
He reads the souls of the police like an open book . 
He will tell you fluently and without flinching Such an one is a traitor such another is very malicious such another is great such another is ridiculous . 
That one imagines that he owns the Pont Neuf , and he prevents people from walking on the cornice outside the parapet that other has a mania for pulling person's ears etc . 
CHAPTER IX THE OLD SOUL OF GAUL There was something of that boy in Poquelin , the son of the fish market Beaumarchais had something of it . 
Gaminerie is a shade of the Gallic spirit . 
Mingled with good sense , it sometimes adds force to the latter , as alcohol does to wine . 
Sometimes it is a defect . 
Homer repeats himself eternally , granted one may say that Voltaire plays the gamin . 
Camille Desmoulins was a native of the faubourgs . 
The gamin of Paris is respectful , ironical , and insolent . 
He has villainous teeth , because he is badly fed and his stomach suffers , and handsome eyes because he has wit . 
If Jehovah himself were present , he would go hopping up the steps of paradise on one foot . 
He is strong on boxing . 
All beliefs are possible to him . 
This child of the puddle is also the child of the ideal . 
Measure that spread of wings which reaches from Moliere to Barra . 
To sum up the whole , and in one word , the gamin is a being who amuses himself , because he is unhappy . 
The gamin is a grace to the nation , and at the same time a disease a disease which must be cured , how ? By light . 
All generous social irradiations spring from science , letters , arts , education . 
Make men , make men . 
Give them light that they may warm you . 
The gamin expresses Paris , and Paris expresses the world . 
For Paris is a total . 
Paris is the ceiling of the human race . 
The whole of this prodigious city is a foreshortening of dead manners and living manners . 
He who sees Paris thinks he sees the bottom of all history with heaven and constellations in the intervals . 
Everything that exists elsewhere exists at Paris . 
The fishwoman of Dumarsais can retort on the herb seller of Euripides , the discobols Vejanus lives again in the Forioso , the tight rope dancer . 
Seek something that Paris has not . 
Paris has an AEsop Mayeux , and a Canidia , Mademoiselle Lenormand . 
It is terrified , like Delphos at the fulgurating realities of the vision it makes tables turn as Dodona did tripods . 
It places the grisette on the throne , as Rome placed the courtesan there and , taking it altogether , if Louis XV . 
is worse than Claudian , Madame Dubarry is better than Messalina . 
Paris combines in an unprecedented type , which has existed and which we have elbowed , Grecian nudity , the Hebraic ulcer , and the Gascon pun . 
It mingles Diogenes , Job , and Jack pudding , dresses up a spectre in old numbers of the Constitutional , and makes Chodruc Duclos . 
Although Plutarch says the tyrant never grows old , Rome , under Sylla as under Domitian , resigned itself and willingly put water in its wine . 
The Tiber was a Lethe , if the rather doctrinary eulogium made of it by Varus Vibiscus is to be credited Contra Gracchos Tiberim habemus , Bibere Tiberim , id est seditionem oblivisci . 
Paris drinks a million litres of water a day , but that does not prevent it from occasionally beating the general alarm and ringing the tocsin . 
With that exception , Paris is amiable . 
No trait of the universal face is lacking in the profile of Paris . 
The Barriere du Combat is not the Coliseum , but people are as ferocious there as though Caesar were looking on . 
Geniuses flash forth there , the red tails prosper there . 
Adonai passes on his chariot with its twelve wheels of thunder and lightning Silenus makes his entry there on his ass . 
Paris is the synonym of Cosmos , Paris is Athens , Sybaris , Jerusalem , Pantin . 
All civilizations are there in an abridged form , all barbarisms also . 
Paris would greatly regret it if it had not a guillotine . 
A little of the Place de Greve is a good thing . 
What would all that eternal festival be without this seasoning ? Our laws are wisely provided , and thanks to them , this blade drips on this Shrove Tuesday . 
CHAPTER XI TO SCOFF , TO REIGN There is no limit to Paris . 
No city has had that domination which sometimes derides those whom it subjugates . 
To please you , O Athenians ! exclaimed Alexander . 
Paris makes more than the law , it makes the fashion Paris sets more than the fashion , it sets the routine . 
Its gayety is of the thunder and its farce holds a sceptre . 
Its tempest sometimes proceeds from a grimace . 
Its explosions , its days , its masterpieces , its prodigies , its epics , go forth to the bounds of the universe , and so also do its cock and bull stories . 
Its laugh is the mouth of a volcano which spatters the whole earth . 
It imposes its caricatures as well as its ideal on people the highest monuments of human civilization accept its ironies and lend their eternity to its mischievous pranks . 
Paris is always showing its teeth when it is not scolding it is laughing . 
The smoke of its roofs forms the ideas of the universe . 
A heap of mud and stone , if you will , but , above all , a moral being . 
It is more than great , it is immense . 
Why ? Because it is daring . 
To dare that is the price of progress . 
All sublime conquests are , more or less , the prizes of daring . 
The cry Audacity ! is a Fiat lux . 
It is necessary , for the sake of the forward march of the human race , that there should be proud lessons of courage permanently on the heights . 
Daring deeds dazzle history and are one of man's great sources of light . 
The dawn dares when it rises . 
The same formidable lightning proceeds from the torch of Prometheus to Cambronne's short pipe . 
There exist there immense numbers of unknown beings , among whom swarm types of the strangest , from the porter of la Rapee to the knacker of Montfaucon . 
Fex urbis , exclaims Cicero mob , adds Burke , indignantly rabble , multitude , populace . 
These are words and quickly uttered . 
What does it matter ? What is it to me if they do go barefoot ! They do not know how to read so much the worse . 
Make a whirlwind of the idea . 
This crowd may be rendered sublime . 
Let us learn how to make use of that vast conflagration of principles and virtues , which sparkles , bursts forth and quivers at certain hours . 
These bare feet , these bare arms , these rags , these ignorances , these abjectnesses , these darknesses , may be employed in the conquest of the ideal . 
Gaze past the people , and you will perceive truth . 
Some people or other had clothed him in rags out of charity . 
Still , he had a father and a mother . 
But his father did not think of him , and his mother did not love him . 
He was one of those children most deserving of pity , among all , one of those who have father and mother , and who are orphans nevertheless . 
This child never felt so well as when he was in the street . 
The pavements were less hard to him than his mother's heart . 
His parents had despatched him into life with a kick . 
He was a boisterous , pallid , nimble , wide awake , jeering , lad , with a vivacious but sickly air . 
He had no shelter , no bread , no fire , no love but he was merry because he was free . 
The tiniest hole saves them . 
The principal lodger of Jean Valjean's day was dead and had been replaced by another exactly like her . 
I know not what philosopher has said Old women are never lacking . 
This new old woman was named Madame Bourgon , and had nothing remarkable about her life except a dynasty of three paroquets , who had reigned in succession over her soul . 
At first sight , this family presented no very special feature except its extreme destitution the father , when he hired the chamber , had stated that his name was Jondrette . 
He arrived there and found distress , and , what is still sadder , no smile a cold hearth and cold hearts . 
When he entered , he was asked Whence come you ? He replied From the street . 
When he went away , they asked him Whither are you going ? He replied Into the streets . 
His mother said to him What did you come here for ? This child lived , in this absence of affection , like the pale plants which spring up in cellars . 
It did not cause him suffering , and he blamed no one . 
He did not know exactly how a father and mother should be . 
Nevertheless , his mother loved his sisters . 
We have forgotten to mention , that on the Boulevard du Temple this child was called Little Gavroche . 
Why was he called Little Gavroche ? Probably because his father's name was Jondrette . 
It seems to be the instinct of certain wretched families to break the thread . 
The chamber which the Jondrettes inhabited in the Gorbeau hovel was the last at the end of the corridor . 
The cell next to it was occupied by a very poor young man who was called M. Marius . 
Let us explain who this M. Marius was . 
This good man was old when they were young . 
He was over ninety years of age , his walk was erect , he talked loudly , saw clearly , drank neat , ate , slept , and snored . 
He had all thirty two of his teeth . 
He only wore spectacles when he read . 
He was of an amorous disposition , but declared that , for the last ten years , he had wholly and decidedly renounced women . 
He could no longer please , he said he did not add I am too old , but I am too poor . 
He said If I were not ruined Heee ! All he had left , in fact , was an income of about fifteen thousand francs . 
His dream was to come into an inheritance and to have a hundred thousand livres income for mistresses . 
He was superficial , rapid , easily angered . 
He flew into a passion at everything , generally quite contrary to all reason . 
When contradicted , he raised his cane he beat people as he had done in the great century . 
She seemed to him to be eight years old . 
The words which he uttered the most frequently were the sensible man , and nature . 
Europe possesses specimens of Asia and Africa on a small scale . 
The cat is a drawing room tiger , the lizard is a pocket crocodile . 
The dancers at the opera are pink female savages . 
They do not eat men , they crunch them or , magicians that they are , they transform them into oysters and swallow them . 
The Caribbeans leave only the bones , they leave only the shell . 
We do not devour , we gnaw we do not exterminate , we claw . 
CHAPTER II LIKE MASTER , LIKE HOUSE He lived in the Marais , Rue des Filles du Calvaire , No. . 
This house has since been demolished and rebuilt , and the number has probably been changed in those revolutions of numeration which the streets of Paris undergo . 
He enveloped his bed in a vast , nine leaved screen of Coromandel lacquer . 
Long , full curtains hung from the windows , and formed great , broken folds that were very magnificent . 
and ordered of his convicts by M. de Vivonne for his mistress . 
M. Gillenormand had inherited it from a grim maternal great aunt , who had died a centenarian . 
He had had two wives . 
His manners were something between those of the courtier , which he had never been , and the lawyer , which he might have been . 
He was gay , and caressing when he had a mind . 
He was a connoisseur of painting . 
M. Gillenormand's attire was not the habit of Louis XIV . 
nor yet that of Louis XVI . 
it was that of the Incroyables of the Directory . 
He had thought himself young up to that period and had followed the fashions . 
His coat was of light weight cloth with voluminous revers , a long swallow tail and large steel buttons . 
With this he wore knee breeches and buckle shoes . 
He always thrust his hands into his fobs . 
He said authoritatively The French Revolution is a heap of blackguards . 
I was dressed like a Turk of the Levant Levantin , said he . 
Madame de Boufflers , having seen him by chance when he was twenty , had described him as a charming fool . 
He was horrified by all the names which he saw in politics and in power , regarding them as vulgar and bourgeois . 
He read the journals , the newspapers , the gazettes as he said , stifling outbursts of laughter the while . 
Well ! They are so stupid that it would pass he merrily called everything by its name , whether decent or indecent , and did not restrain himself in the least before ladies . 
He uttered coarse speeches , obscenities , and filth with a certain tranquillity and lack of astonishment which was elegant . 
It was in keeping with the unceremoniousness of his century . 
It is to be noted that the age of periphrase in verse was the age of crudities in prose . 
His god father had predicted that he would turn out a man of genius , and had bestowed on him these two significant names Luc Esprit . 
Neither the Convention , nor the death of Louis XVI . 
, nor the Napoleon , nor the return of the Bourbons , nor anything else had been able to efface the memory of this crowning . 
The Duc de Nevers was , in his eyes , the great figure of the century . 
sent two hundred phials of it to the Pope . 
He would have been greatly irritated and thrown off his balance , had any one told him that the elixir of gold is nothing but the perchloride of iron . 
If any young man ventured to pronounce an eulogium on the Republic in his presence , he turned purple and grew so angry that he was on the point of swooning . 
He sometimes alluded to his ninety years , and said , I hope that I shall not see ninety three twice . 
On these occasions , he hinted to people that he meant to live to be a hundred . 
CHAPTER V BASQUE AND NICOLETTE He had theories . 
This abdication sets him free . 
While her husband disdains her , she has the satisfaction of ruining her husband . 
This theory M. Gillenormand had himself applied , and it had become his history . 
He had not hesitated on this point , not being anxious to leave a property behind him . 
All that's the Rue Quincampois ! he said . 
His house in the Rue Filles du Clavaire belonged to him , as we have already stated . 
He had two servants , a male and a female . 
When a servant entered his establishment , M. Gillenormand re baptized him . 
He bestowed on the men the name of their province Nimois , Comtois , Poitevin , Picard . 
One day , a haughty cook , a cordon bleu , of the lofty race of porters , presented herself . 
How much wages do you want a month ? asked M. Gillenormand . 
What is your name ? Olympie . 
You shall have fifty francs , and you shall be called Nicolette . 
CHAPTER VI IN WHICH MAGNON AND HER TWO CHILDREN ARE SEEN With M. Gillenormand , sorrow was converted into wrath he was furious at being in despair . 
He had all sorts of prejudices and took all sorts of liberties . 
This he called having royal renown . 
This royal renown sometimes drew down upon him singular windfalls . 
M. Gillenormand had , at that time , fully completed his eighty fourth year . 
Indignation and uproar in the establishment . 
And whom did that bold hussy think she could persuade to believe that ? What audacity ! What an abominable calumny ! M. Gillenormand himself was not at all enraged . 
M. le Duc d'Angouleme , the bastard of his Majesty Charles IX . 
There is nothing out of the ordinary in these things . 
And then , the Bible ! Upon that I declare that this little gentleman is none of mine . 
Let him be taken care of . 
It is not his fault . 
This manner of procedure was good tempered . 
The woman , whose name was Magnon , sent him another parcel in the following year . 
It was a boy again . 
Thereupon , M. Gillenormand capitulated . 
He added I insist upon it that the mother shall treat them well . 
I shall go to see them from time to time . 
He had had a brother who was a priest , and who had been rector of the Academy of Poitiers for three and thirty years , and had died at seventy nine . 
I lost him young , said he . 
As for M. Gillenormand the elder , he never haggled over his alms giving , but gave gladly and nobly . 
He was kindly , abrupt , charitable , and if he had been rich , his turn of mind would have been magnificent . 
He desired that all which concerned him should be done in a grand manner , even his rogueries . 
Everything has degenerated in this century , even the rascals . 
Morbleu ! this is not the way to rob a man of my standing . 
I am robbed as though in a forest , but badly robbed . 
He is the disgrace of my family , said the old bourgeois . 
He took an immense amount of snuff , and had a particularly graceful manner of plucking at his lace ruffle with the back of one hand . 
He believed very little in God . 
To sum up , he was venerable in spite of all this . 
He had something of the eighteenth century about him frivolous and great . 
He had only retired to the Marais when he quitted society , long after attaining the age of eighty . 
And , on abandoning society , he had immured himself in his habits . 
The principal one , and that which was invariable , was to keep his door absolutely closed during the day , and never to receive any one whatever except in the evening . 
He dined at five o'clock , and after that his door was open . 
That had been the fashion of his century , and he would not swerve from it . 
The day is vulgar , said he , and deserves only a closed shutter . 
Fashionable people only light up their minds when the zenith lights up its stars . 
And he barricaded himself against every one , even had it been the king himself . 
This was the antiquated elegance of his day . 
CHAPTER VIII TWO DO NOT MAKE A PAIR We have just spoken of M. Gillenormand's two daughters . 
They had come into the world ten years apart . 
In their youth they had borne very little resemblance to each other , either in character or countenance , and had also been as little like sisters to each other as possible . 
Thus the two sisters strayed , each in her own dream , at the epoch when they were young girls . 
Both had wings , the one like an angel , the other like a goose . 
No ambition is ever fully realized , here below at least . 
No paradise becomes terrestrial in our day . 
The younger wedded the man of her dreams , but she died . 
The elder did not marry at all . 
A characteristic detail outside of her immediate family , no one had ever known her first name . 
She was called Mademoiselle Gillenormand , the elder . 
In the matter of cant , Mademoiselle Gillenormand could have given points to a miss . 
Her modesty was carried to the other extreme of blackness . 
She cherished a frightful memory of her life one day , a man had beheld her garter . 
Age had only served to accentuate this pitiless modesty . 
Her guimpe was never sufficiently opaque , and never ascended sufficiently high . 
She multiplied clasps and pins where no one would have dreamed of looking . 
The peculiarity of prudery is to place all the more sentinels in proportion as the fortress is the less menaced . 
Nevertheless , let him who can explain these antique mysteries of innocence , she allowed an officer of the Lancers , her grand nephew , named Theodule , to embrace her without displeasure . 
In spite of this favored Lancer , the label Prude , under which we have classed her , suited her to absolute perfection . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand was a sort of twilight soul . 
Prudery is a demi virtue and a demi vice . 
To prudery she added bigotry , a well assorted lining . 
Beyond the Agnus Dei and Ave Maria , Mademoiselle Vaubois had no knowledge of anything except of the different ways of making preserves . 
Mademoiselle Vaubois , perfect in her style , was the ermine of stupidity without a single spot of intelligence . 
Let us say it plainly , Mademoiselle Gillenormand had gained rather than lost as she grew older . 
This is the case with passive natures . 
She had never been malicious , which is relative kindness and then , years wear away the angles , and the softening which comes with time had come to her . 
She was melancholy with an obscure sadness of which she did not herself know the secret . 
There breathed from her whole person the stupor of a life that was finished , and which had never had a beginning . 
She kept house for her father . 
M. Gillenormand had his daughter near him , as we have seen that Monseigneur Bienvenu had his sister with him . 
These households comprised of an old man and an old spinster are not rare , and always have the touching aspect of two weaknesses leaning on each other for support . 
We shall meet with this child again later on . 
THE GRANDFATHER AND THE GRANDSON CHAPTER I AN ANCIENT SALON When M. Gillenormand lived in the Rue Servandoni , he had frequented many very good and very aristocratic salons . 
Although a bourgeois , M. Gillenormand was received in society . 
He never went anywhere except on condition of being the chief person there . 
There are people who will have influence at any price , and who will have other people busy themselves over them when they cannot be oracles , they turn wags . 
M. Gillenormand was not of this nature his domination in the Royalist salons which he frequented cost his self respect nothing . 
He was an oracle everywhere . 
It had happened to him to hold his own against M. de Bonald , and even against M. Bengy Puy Vallee . 
Madame de T. had not published the memoirs , out of pride , and maintained herself on a meagre income which had survived no one knew how . 
Madame de T. lived far from the Court a very mixed society , as she said , in a noble isolation , proud and poor . 
A few friends assembled twice a week about her widowed hearth , and these constituted a purely Royalist salon . 
Qu'on n' dis' pas qu' les patriotes Ont arbore l' drapeau blanc ? Tuck into your trousers the shirt tail that is hanging out . 
Let it not be said that patriots have hoisted the white flag . 
Decazes and Deserre were members Pour raffermir le trone ebranle sur sa base , Il faut changer de sol , et de serre et de case . 
In order to re establish the shaken throne firmly on its base , soil , greenhouse and house must be changed . 
All this was done merrily . 
In that society , they parodied the Revolution . 
They used I know not what desires to give point to the same wrath in inverse sense . 
It is only a variation . 
In the Fualdes affair , which belongs to this epoch , , they took part for Bastide and Jausion , because Fualdes was a Buonapartist . 
They designated the liberals as friends and brothers this constituted the most deadly insult . 
Like certain church towers , Madame de T. 's salon had two cocks . 
These singular amnesties do occur in parties . 
The ancient society of the upper classes held themselves above this law , as above every other . 
Marigny , the brother of the Pompadour , had his entry with M. le Prince de Soubise . 
In spite of ? No , because . 
Du Barry , the god father of the Vaubernier , was very welcome at the house of M. le Marechal de Richelieu . 
Mercury and the Prince de Guemenee are at home there . 
A thief is admitted there , provided he be a god . 
His face was the same color as his trousers . 
This M. de Lamothe was held in consideration in this salon on account of his celebrity and , strange to say , though true , because of his name of Valois . 
As for M. Gillenormand , his consideration was of absolutely first rate quality . 
One is not a century with impunity . 
The years finally produce around a head a venerable dishevelment . 
In addition to this , he said things which had the genuine sparkle of the old rock . 
Thus , when the King of Prussia , after having restored Louis XVIII . 
, came to pay the latter a visit under the name of the Count de Ruppin , he was received by the descendant of Louis XIV . 
somewhat as though he had been the Marquis de Brandebourg , and with the most delicate impertinence . 
M. Gillenormand approved All kings who are not the King of France , said he , are provincial kings . 
One day , the following question was put and the following answer returned in his presence To what was the editor of the Courrier Francais condemned ? To be suspended . 
Sus is superfluous , observed M. Gillenormand . 
Remarks of this nature found a situation . 
Suspendu , suspended pendu , hung . 
At the Te Deum on the anniversary of the return of the Bourbons , he said , on seeing M. de Talleyrand pass by There goes his Excellency the Evil One . 
He was called poor child , because he had for a father a brigand of the Loire . 
This brigand of the Loire was M. Gillenormand's son in law , who has already been mentioned , and whom M. Gillenormand called the disgrace of his family . 
All these enclosures abut upon the river at one end , and on a house at the other . 
The man in the waistcoat and the wooden shoes of whom we have just spoken , inhabited the smallest of these enclosures and the most humble of these houses about . 
The plot of earth which he called his garden was celebrated in the town for the beauty of the flowers which he cultivated there . 
These flowers were his occupation . 
He was ingenious he had forestalled Soulange Bodin in the formation of little clumps of earth of heath mould , for the cultivation of rare and precious shrubs from America and China . 
His table was very plain , and he drank more milk than wine . 
A child could make him give way , and his servant scolded him . 
He was the brigand of the Loire . 
When very young , this Georges Pontmercy had been a soldier in Saintonge's regiment . 
Pontmercy fought at Spire , at Worms , at Neustadt , at Turkheim , at Alzey , at Mayence , where he was one of the two hundred who formed Houchard's rearguard . 
He was under Kleber at Marchiennes and at the battle of Mont Palissel , where a ball from a biscaien broke his arm . 
Then he passed to the frontier of Italy , and was one of the thirty grenadiers who defended the Col de Tende with Joubert . 
Joubert was appointed its adjutant general , and Pontmercy sub lieutenant . 
Pontmercy was by Berthier's side in the midst of the grape shot of that day at Lodi which caused Bonaparte to say Berthier has been cannoneer , cavalier , and grenadier . 
The Genoese commander wanted to throw his cannon into the sea , to hide the soldiers between decks , and to slip along in the dark as a merchant vessel . 
Pontmercy had the colors hoisted to the peak , and sailed proudly past under the guns of the British frigates . 
In he was in that Malher division which took Gunzberg from the Archduke Ferdinand . 
At Weltingen he received into his arms , beneath a storm of bullets , Colonel Maupetit , mortally wounded at the head of the th Dragoons . 
He distinguished himself at Austerlitz in that admirable march in echelons effected under the enemy's fire . 
When the cavalry of the Imperial Russian Guard crushed a battalion of the th of the line , Pontmercy was one of those who took their revenge and overthrew the Guard . 
The Emperor gave him the cross . 
Pontmercy saw Wurmser at Mantua , Melas , and Alexandria , Mack at Ulm , made prisoners in succession . 
He formed a part of the eighth corps of the grand army which Mortier commanded , and which captured Hamburg . 
Then he was transferred to the th of the line , which was the old regiment of Flanders . 
Pontmercy was one of the three who emerged alive from that cemetery . 
At Arnay Le Duc , being then a captain , he put ten Cossacks to the sword , and saved , not his general , but his corporal . 
He was well slashed up on this occasion , and twenty seven splinters were extracted from his left arm alone . 
Eight days before the capitulation of Paris he had just exchanged with a comrade and entered the cavalry . 
He accompanied Napoleon to the Island of Elba . 
At Waterloo , he was chief of a squadron of cuirassiers , in Dubois' brigade . 
It was he who captured the standard of the Lunenburg battalion . 
He came and cast the flag at the Emperor's feet . 
He was covered with blood . 
While tearing down the banner he had received a sword cut across his face . 
An hour later , he fell in the ravine of Ohain . 
Now , who was this Georges Pontmercy ? He was this same brigand of the Loire . 
We have already seen something of his history . 
The Restoration had placed him on half pay , then had sent him into residence , that is to say , under surveillance , at Vernon . 
He , on his side , neglected no occasion of signing himself Colonel Baron Pontmercy . 
He had only an old blue coat , and he never went out without fastening to it his rosette as an officer of the Legion of Honor . 
The Attorney for the Crown had him warned that the authorities would prosecute him for illegal wearing of this decoration . 
Then he went out for eight successive days with his rosette . 
They dared not interfere with him . 
Two or three times the Minister of War and the general in command of the department wrote to him with the following address A Monsieur le Commandant Pontmercy . 
He sent back the letters with the seals unbroken . 
At the same moment , Napoleon at Saint Helena was treating in the same fashion the missives of Sir Hudson Lowe addressed to General Bonaparte . 
Pontmercy had ended , may we be pardoned the expression , by having in his mouth the same saliva as his Emperor . 
In the same way , there were at Rome Carthaginian prisoners who refused to salute Flaminius , and who had a little of Hannibal's spirit . 
He had hired the smallest house which he could find at Vernon . 
He lived there alone , we have just seen how . 
Under the Empire , between two wars , he had found time to marry Mademoiselle Gillenormand . 
The old bourgeois , thoroughly indignant at bottom , had given his consent with a sigh , saying The greatest families are forced into it . 
In , Madame Pontmercy , an admirable woman in every sense , by the way , lofty in sentiment and rare , and worthy of her husband , died , leaving a child . 
This child had been the colonel's joy in his solitude but the grandfather had imperatively claimed his grandson , declaring that if the child were not given to him he would disinherit him . 
The father had yielded in the little one's interest , and had transferred his love to flowers . 
Moreover , he had renounced everything , and neither stirred up mischief nor conspired . 
He shared his thoughts between the innocent things which he was then doing and the great things which he had done . 
He passed his time in expecting a pink or in recalling Austerlitz . 
M. Gillenormand kept up no relations with his son in law . 
The colonel was a bandit to him . 
M. Gillenormand never mentioned the colonel , except when he occasionally made mocking allusions to his Baronship . 
It had been expressly agreed that Pontmercy should never attempt to see his son nor to speak to him , under penalty of having the latter handed over to him disowned and disinherited . 
For the Gillenormands , Pontmercy was a man afflicted with the plague . 
They intended to bring up the child in their own way . 
Perhaps the colonel was wrong to accept these conditions , but he submitted to them , thinking that he was doing right and sacrificing no one but himself . 
The inheritance of Father Gillenormand did not amount to much but the inheritance of Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder was considerable . 
This aunt , who had remained unmarried , was very rich on the maternal side , and her sister's son was her natural heir . 
The boy , whose name was Marius , knew that he had a father , but nothing more . 
No one opened his mouth to him about it . 
There , trembling lest the aunt should turn round , concealed behind a pillar , motionless , not daring to breathe , he gazed at his child . 
The scarred veteran was afraid of that old spinster . 
From this had arisen his connection with the cure of Vernon , M. l'Abbe Mabeuf . 
That man , who had so manly an air , yet who was weeping like a woman , had struck the warden . 
That face had clung to his mind . 
One day , having gone to Vernon to see his brother , he had encountered Colonel Pontmercy on the bridge , and had recognized the man of Saint Sulpice . 
The warden had mentioned the circumstance to the cure , and both had paid the colonel a visit , on some pretext or other . 
This visit led to others . 
This caused the cure to regard him with veneration and tenderness , and the colonel , on his side , became fond of the cure . 
And moreover , when both are sincere and good , no men so penetrate each other , and so amalgamate with each other , as an old priest and an old soldier . 
At bottom , the man is the same . 
The one has devoted his life to his country here below , the other to his country on high that is the only difference . 
Twice a year , on the first of January and on St . 
CHAPTER III REQUIESCANT Madame de T. 's salon was all that Marius Pontmercy knew of the world . 
It was the only opening through which he could get a glimpse of life . 
This opening was sombre , and more cold than warmth , more night than day , came to him through this skylight . 
This child , who had been all joy and light on entering this strange world , soon became melancholy , and , what is still more contrary to his age , grave . 
Surrounded by all those singular and imposing personages , he gazed about him with serious amazement . 
Everything conspired to increase this astonishment in him . 
There were in Madame de T. 's salon some very noble ladies named Mathan , Noe , Levis , which was pronounced Levi , Cambis , pronounced Cambyse . 
These tragic tales abounded in Madame de T. 's salon , and by dint of cursing Marat , they applauded Trestaillon . 
Some deputies of the undiscoverable variety played their whist there M. Thibord du Chalard , M. Lemarchant de Gomicourt , and the celebrated scoffer of the right , M. Cornet Dincourt . 
The bailiff de Ferrette , with his short breeches and his thin legs , sometimes traversed this salon on his way to M. de Talleyrand . 
Lastly , two cardinals , M. de la Luzerne , and M. de Cl T . 
The Cardinal de Cl T had been brought to Madame de T. 's by his most intimate friend , M. de Roquelaure , former Bishop of Senlis , and one of the Forty . 
It was he who said The Cardinals are the peers of France of Rome the lords are the peers of France of England . 
Moreover , as it is indispensable that the Revolution should be everywhere in this century , this feudal salon was , as we have said , dominated by a bourgeois . 
There lay the essence and quintessence of the Parisian white society . 
There reputations , even Royalist reputations , were held in quarantine . 
There is always a trace of anarchy in renown . 
Chateaubriand , had he entered there , would have produced the effect of Pere Duchene . 
Some of the scoffed at did , nevertheless , penetrate thither on sufferance . 
Comte Beug was received there , subject to correction . 
The noble salons of the present day no longer resemble those salons . 
The Faubourg Saint Germain reeks of the fagot even now . 
The Royalists of to day are demagogues , let us record it to their credit . 
At Madame de T. 's the society was superior , taste was exquisite and haughty , under the cover of a great show of politeness . 
Manners there admitted of all sorts of involuntary refinements which were the old regime itself , buried but still alive . 
Some of these habits , especially in the matter of language , seem eccentric . 
Persons but superficially acquainted with them would have taken for provincial that which was only antique . 
A woman was called Madame la Generale . 
Madame la Colonelle was not entirely disused . 
The charming Madame de Leon , in memory , no doubt , of the Duchesses de Longueville and de Chevreuse , preferred this appellation to her title of Princesse . 
The Marquise de Crequy was also called Madame la Colonelle . 
Men and deeds were brought to judgment there . 
They jeered at the age , which released them from the necessity of understanding it . 
They abetted each other in amazement . 
They communicated to each other that modicum of light which they possessed . 
Methuselah bestowed information on Epimenides . 
The deaf man made the blind man acquainted with the course of things . 
They declared that the time which had elasped since Coblentz had not existed . 
In the same manner that Louis XVIII . 
was by the grace of God , in the five and twentieth year of his reign , the emigrants were , by rights , in the five and twentieth year of their adolescence . 
All was harmonious nothing was too much alive speech hardly amounted to a breath the newspapers , agreeing with the salons , seemed a papyrus . 
There were some young people , but they were rather dead . 
The liveries in the antechamber were antiquated . 
These utterly obsolete personages were served by domestics of the same stamp . 
They all had the air of having lived a long time ago , and of obstinately resisting the sepulchre . 
Nearly the whole dictionary consisted of Conserver , Conservation , Conservateur to be in good odor , that was the point . 
There are , in fact , aromatics in the opinions of these venerable groups , and their ideas smelled of it . 
It was a mummified society . 
The masters were embalmed , the servants were stuffed with straw . 
A worthy old marquise , an emigree and ruined , who had but a solitary maid , continued to say My people . 
What did they do in Madame de T. 's salon ? They were ultra . 
To be ultra this word , although what it represents may not have disappeared , has no longer any meaning at the present day . 
To be ultra is to go beyond . 
The ultra spirit especially characterizes the first phase of the Restoration . 
Nothing in history resembles that quarter of an hour which begins in and terminates about , with the advent of M. de Villele , the practical man of the Right . 
Former days did not recognize Yesterday . 
People no longer had the feeling for what was grand . 
There was some one who called Bonaparte Scapin . 
This Society no longer exists . 
Nothing of it , we repeat , exists to day . 
When we select from it some one figure at random , and attempt to make it live again in thought , it seems as strange to us as the world before the Deluge . 
It is because it , too , as a matter of fact , has been engulfed in a deluge . 
It has disappeared beneath two Revolutions . 
These salons had a literature and politics of their own . 
M. Agier laid down the law in them . 
They commentated M. Colnet , the old bookseller and publicist of the Quay Malaquais . 
Napoleon was to them thoroughly the Corsican Ogre . 
Later on the introduction into history of M. le Marquis de Bonaparte , Lieutenant General of the King's armies , was a concession to the spirit of the age . 
These salons did not long preserve their purity . 
Beginning with , doctrinarians began to spring up in them , a disturbing shade . 
Their way was to be Royalists and to excuse themselves for being so . 
Where the ultras were very proud , the doctrinarians were rather ashamed . 
They had wit they had silence their political dogma was suitably impregnated with arrogance they should have succeeded . 
They indulged , and usefully too , in excesses in the matter of white neckties and tightly buttoned coats . 
The mistake or the misfortune of the doctrinarian party was to create aged youth . 
They assumed the poses of wise men . 
They dreamed of engrafting a temperate power on the absolute and excessive principle . 
They opposed , and sometimes with rare intelligence , conservative liberalism to the liberalism which demolishes . 
They were heard to say Thanks for Royalism ! It has rendered more than one service . 
It has brought back tradition , worship , religion , respect . 
It is faithful , brave , chivalric , loving , devoted . 
It has mingled , though with regret , the secular grandeurs of the monarchy with the new grandeurs of the nation . 
Its mistake is not to understand the Revolution , the Empire , glory , liberty , young ideas , young generations , the age . 
To attack Royalism is a misconstruction of liberalism . 
After the th of September , the nobility of the monarchy is treated as the nobility of the Empire was treated after the th of July . 
They were unjust to the eagle , we are unjust to the fleur de lys . 
It seems that we must always have something to proscribe ! Does it serve any purpose to ungild the crown of Louis XIV . 
, to scrape the coat of arms of Henry IV . 
The fleurs de lys are ours as well as the N's . 
To what purpose shall we diminish it ? We must not deny our country in the past any more than in the present . 
The ultras marked the first epoch of Royalism , congregation characterized the second . 
Let us confine ourselves here to this sketch . 
But he does it rapidly and without any bitter or derisive idea . 
Souvenirs both respectful and affectionate , for they touch his mother , attach him to this past . 
Moreover , let us remark , this same petty world had a grandeur of its own . 
One may smile at it , but one can neither despise nor hate it . 
It was the France of former days . 
Marius Pontmercy pursued some studies , as all children do . 
When he emerged from the hands of Aunt Gillenormand , his grandfather confided him to a worthy professor of the most purely classic innocence . 
This young soul which was expanding passed from a prude to a vulgar pedant . 
Marius went through his years of college , then he entered the law school . 
He was a Royalist , fanatical and severe . 
He did not love his grandfather much , as the latter's gayety and cynicism repelled him , and his feelings towards his father were gloomy . 
He was , on the whole , a cold and ardent , noble , generous , proud , religious , enthusiastic lad dignified to harshness , pure to shyness . 
CHAPTER IV END OF THE BRIGAND The conclusion of Marius' classical studies coincided with M. Gillenormand's departure from society . 
In , Marius had just attained his seventeenth year . 
One evening , on his return home , he saw his grandfather holding a letter in his hand . 
Marius , said M. Gillenormand , you will set out for Vernon to morrow . 
Marius was seized with a trembling fit . 
He had thought of everything except this that he should one day be called upon to see his father . 
Nothing could be more unexpected , more surprising , and , let us admit it , more disagreeable to him . 
It was forcing estrangement into reconciliation . 
It was not an affliction , but it was an unpleasant duty . 
Feeling that he was not beloved , he did not love . 
Nothing is more simple , he said to himself . 
He was so astounded that he did not question M. Gillenormand . 
The grandfather resumed It appears that he is ill . 
And after a pause , he added Set out to morrow morning . 
I think there is a coach which leaves the Cour des Fontaines at six o'clock , and which arrives in the evening . 
He says that here is haste . 
Then he crushed the letter in his hand and thrust it into his pocket . 
Marius might have set out that very evening and have been with his father on the following morning . 
A diligence from the Rue du Bouloi took the trip to Rouen by night at that date , and passed through Vernon . 
Neither Marius nor M. Gillenormand thought of making inquiries about it . 
The next day , at twilight , Marius reached Vernon . 
People were just beginning to light their candles . 
He asked the first person whom be met for M. Pontmercy's house . 
For in his own mind , he agreed with the Restoration , and like it , did not recognize his father's claim to the title of either colonel or baron . 
The house was pointed out to him . 
He rang a woman with a little lamp in her hand opened the door . 
M. Pontmercy ? said Marius . 
Is this his house ? demanded Marius . 
Can I speak with him ? The woman shook her head . 
But I am his son ! persisted Marius . 
He no longer expects you , said the woman . 
Then he perceived that she was weeping . 
She pointed to the door of a room on the ground floor he entered . 
The one on the floor was the colonel . 
The other two were the doctor , and the priest , who was engaged in prayer . 
The colonel had been attacked by brain fever three days previously . 
As he had a foreboding of evil at the very beginning of his illness , he had written to M. Gillenormand to demand his son . 
The malady had grown worse . 
The doctor had been summoned , and the cure . 
The doctor had arrived too late . 
The son had also arrived too late . 
By the dim light of the candle , a large tear could be distinguished on the pale and prostrate colonel's cheek , where it had trickled from his dead eye . 
The eye was extinguished , but the tear was not yet dry . 
That tear was his son's delay . 
He contemplated that gigantic sear which stamped heroism on that countenance upon which God had imprinted goodness . 
He reflected that this man was his father , and that this man was dead , and a chill ran over him . 
The sorrow which he felt was the sorrow which he would have felt in the presence of any other man whom he had chanced to behold stretched out in death . 
Anguish , poignant anguish , was in that chamber . 
The servant woman was lamenting in a corner , the cure was praying , and his sobs were audible , the doctor was wiping his eyes the corpse itself was weeping . 
The doctor , the priest , and the woman gazed at Marius in the midst of their affliction without uttering a word he was the stranger there . 
At the same time , he experienced remorse , and he despised himself for behaving in this manner . 
But was it his fault ? He did not love his father ? Why should he ! The colonel had left nothing . 
The sale of big furniture barely paid the expenses of his burial . 
The servant found a scrap of paper , which she handed to Marius . 
It contained the following , in the colonel's handwriting For my son . 
The Emperor made me a Baron on the battle field of Waterloo . 
Since the Restoration disputes my right to this title which I purchased with my blood , my son shall take it and bear it . 
That he will be worthy of it is a matter of course . 
Below , the colonel had added At that same battle of Waterloo , a sergeant saved my life . 
The man's name was Thenardier . 
I think that he has recently been keeping a little inn , in a village in the neighborhood of Paris , at Chelles or Montfermeil . 
If my son meets him , he will do all the good he can to Thenardier . 
Marius took this paper and preserved it , not out of duty to his father , but because of that vague respect for death which is always imperious in the heart of man . 
Nothing remained of the colonel . 
M. Gillenormand had his sword and uniform sold to an old clothes dealer . 
The neighbors devastated the garden and pillaged the rare flowers . 
The other plants turned to nettles and weeds , and died . 
Marius remained only forty eight hours at Vernon . 
After the interment he returned to Paris , and applied himself again to his law studies , with no more thought of his father than if the latter had never lived . 
In two days the colonel was buried , and in three forgotten . 
Marius wore crape on his hat . 
CHAPTER V THE UTILITY OF GOING TO MASS , IN ORDER TO BECOME A REVOLUTIONIST Marius had preserved the religious habits of his childhood . 
Mass had hardly begun when an old man presented himself and said to Marius This is my place , sir . 
Marius stepped aside promptly , and the old man took possession of his chair . 
There is no need of that , Sir , said Marius . 
Yes ! went on the old man , I do not wish you to have a bad opinion of me . 
You see , I am attached to this place . 
It seems to me that the mass is better from here . 
Why ? I will tell you . 
He came at the hour when he knew that his son would be brought to mass . 
The little one never suspected that his father was there . 
Perhaps he did not even know that he had a father , poor innocent ! The father kept behind a pillar , so that he might not be seen . 
He gazed at his child and he wept . 
He adored that little fellow , poor man ! I could see that . 
This spot has become sanctified in my sight , and I have contracted a habit of coming hither to listen to the mass . 
I prefer it to the stall to which I have a right , in my capacity of warden . 
I knew that unhappy gentleman a little , too . 
He sacrificed himself in order that his son might be rich and happy some day . 
He was separated from him because of political opinions . 
Certainly , I approve of political opinions , but there are people who do not know where to stop . 
Mon Dieu ! a man is not a monster because he was at Waterloo a father is not separated from his child for such a reason as that . 
He was one of Bonaparte's colonels . 
He is dead , I believe . 
He lived at Vernon , where I have a brother who is a cure , and his name was something like Pontmarie or Montpercy . 
He had a fine sword cut , on my honor . 
Pontmercy , suggested Marius , turning pale . 
Did you know him ? Sir , said Marius , he was my father . 
The old warden clasped his hands and exclaimed Ah ! you are the child ! Yes , that's true , he must be a man by this time . 
Well ! poor child , you may say that you had a father who loved you dearly ! Marius offered his arm to the old man and conducted him to his lodgings . 
On the following day , he said to M. Gillenormand I have arranged a hunting party with some friends . 
Will you permit me to be absent for three days ? Four ! replied his grandfather . 
Marius was absent for three days , then he returned to Paris , went straight to the library of the law school and asked for the files of the Moniteur . 
The first time that he came across his father's name in the bulletins of the grand army , he had a fever for a week . 
Marius came to a full knowledge of that rare , sweet , and sublime man , that species of lion lamb who had been his father . 
In the meanwhile , occupied as he was with this study which absorbed all his moments as well as his thoughts , he hardly saw the Gillenormands at all . 
He made his appearance at meals then they searched for him , and he was not to be found . 
Marius was on the high road to adoring his father . 
At the same time , his ideas underwent an extraordinary change . 
The phases of this change were numerous and successive . 
As this is the history of many minds of our day , we think it will prove useful to follow these phases step by step and to indicate them all . 
That history upon which he had just cast his eyes appalled him . 
The first effect was to dazzle him . 
Up to that time , the Republic , the Empire , had been to him only monstrous words . 
The Republic , a guillotine in the twilight the Empire , a sword in the night . 
He did not know where he stood . 
He recoiled , blinded by the brilliant lights . 
He asserted in his conscience , that all this had been good . 
What his dazzled state neglected in this , his first far too synthetic estimation , we do not think it necessary to point out here . 
It is the state of a mind on the march that we are recording . 
Progress is not accomplished in one stage . 
That stated , once for all , in connection with what precedes as well as with what is to follow , we continue . 
He then perceived that , up to that moment , he had comprehended his country no more than he had comprehended his father . 
He had not known either the one or the other , and a sort of voluntary night had obscured his eyes . 
Now he saw , and on the one hand he admired , while on the other he adored . 
He was filled with regret and remorse , and he reflected in despair that all he had in his soul could now be said only to the tomb . 
At each instant , gleams of the true came to complete his reason . 
An inward growth seemed to be in progress within him . 
He was conscious of a sort of natural enlargement , which gave him two things that were new to him his father and his country . 
From the rehabilitation of his father , he naturally passed to the rehabilitation of Napoleon . 
But the latter , we will confess , was not effected without labor . 
From his infancy , he had been imbued with the judgments of the party of , on Bonaparte . 
Now , all the prejudices of the Restoration , all its interests , all its instincts tended to disfigure Napoleon . 
It execrated him even more than it did Robespierre . 
It had very cleverly turned to sufficiently good account the fatigue of the nation , and the hatred of mothers . 
Thus , in speaking of Bonaparte , one was free to sob or to puff up with laughter , provided that hatred lay at the bottom . 
Marius had never entertained about that man , as he was called any other ideas in his mind . 
They had combined with the tenacity which existed in his nature . 
There was in him a headstrong little man who hated Napoleon . 
On reading history , on studying him , especially in the documents and materials for history , the veil which concealed Napoleon from the eyes of Marius was gradually rent . 
One night , he was alone in his little chamber near the roof . 
His candle was burning he was reading , with his elbows resting on his table close to the open window . 
All sorts of reveries reached him from space , and mingled with his thoughts . 
His heart contracted within him . 
He was in a transport , trembling , panting . 
The Emperor had been for his father only the well beloved captain whom one admires , for whom one sacrifices one's self he was something more to Marius . 
He was the predestined constructor of the French group , succeeding the Roman group in the domination of the universe . 
He was a prodigious architect , of a destruction , the continuer of Charlemagne , of Louis XI . 
, of Richelieu , of Louis XIV . 
Marius saw in Bonaparte the dazzling spectre which will always rise upon the frontier , and which will guard the future . 
Despot but dictator a despot resulting from a republic and summing up a revolution . 
Napoleon became for him the man people as Jesus Christ is the man God . 
It will be perceived , that like all new converts to a religion , his conversion intoxicated him , he hurled himself headlong into adhesion and he went too far . 
His nature was so constructed once on the downward slope , it was almost impossible for him to put on the drag . 
Fanaticism for the sword took possession of him , and complicated in his mind his enthusiasm for the idea . 
In many respects , he had set about deceiving himself otherwise . 
There is a way of encountering error while on one's way to the truth . 
He had a violent sort of good faith which took everything in the lump . 
In the new path which he had entered on , in judging the mistakes of the old regime , as in measuring the glory of Napoleon , he neglected the attenuating circumstances . 
At all events , a tremendous step had been taken . 
Where he had formerly beheld the fall of the monarchy , he now saw the advent of France . 
What had been his East became the West . 
He had turned squarely round . 
All these revolutions were accomplished within him , without his family obtaining an inkling of the case . 
This was only the strictly logical consequence of the change which had taken place in him , a change in which everything gravitated round his father . 
Only , as he did not know any one and could not sow his cards with any porter , he put them in his pocket . 
We have long ago said , that M. Gillenormand's temper did not please him . 
There already existed between them all the dissonances of the grave young man and the frivolous old man . 
The gayety of Geronte shocks and exasperates the melancholy of Werther . 
So long as the same political opinions and the same ideas had been common to them both , Marius had met M. Gillenormand there as on a bridge . 
When the bridge fell , an abyss was formed . 
By dint of pity for his father , Marius had nearly arrived at aversion for his grandfather . 
Nothing of this sort , however , was betrayed on the exterior , as we have already said . 
Only he grew colder and colder laconic at meals , and rare in the house . 
When his aunt scolded him for it , he was very gentle and alleged his studies , his lectures , the examinations , etc . 
His grandfather never departed from his infallible diagnosis In love ! I know all about it . 
From time to time Marius absented himself . 
Where is it that he goes off like this ? said his aunt . 
Thenardier had failed , the inn was closed , and no one knew what had become of him . 
Marius was away from the house for four days on this quest . 
He is getting decidedly wild , said his grandfather . 
They thought they had noticed that he wore something on his breast , under his shirt , which was attached to his neck by a black ribbon . 
CHAPTER VII SOME PETTICOAT We have mentioned a lancer . 
He was a great grand nephew of M. Gillenormand , on the paternal side , who led a garrison life , outside the family and far from the domestic hearth . 
Lieutenant Theodule Gillenormand fulfilled all the conditions required to make what is called a fine officer . 
He had a lady's waist , a victorious manner of trailing his sword and of twirling his mustache in a hook . 
He visited Paris very rarely , and so rarely that Marius had never seen him . 
The cousins knew each other only by name . 
We think we have said that Theodule was the favorite of Aunt Gillenormand , who preferred him because she did not see him . 
Not seeing people permits one to attribute to them all possible perfections . 
One morning , Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder returned to her apartment as much disturbed as her placidity was capable of allowing . 
Marius had just asked his grandfather's permission to take a little trip , adding that he meant to set out that very evening . 
Tasting a mystery resembles getting the first flavor of a scandal sainted souls do not detest this . 
There is some curiosity about scandal in the secret compartments of bigotry . 
So she was the prey of a vague appetite for learning a history . 
The work was clumsy , the worker cross . 
She had been seated at this for several hours when the door opened . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand raised her nose . 
Lieutenant Theodule stood before her , making the regulation salute . 
She uttered a cry of delight . 
You here , Theodule ! she exclaimed . 
On my way through town , aunt . 
Here goes ! said Theodule . 
Aunt Gillenormand went to her writing desk and opened it . 
You will remain with us a week at least ? I leave this very evening , aunt . 
It is not possible ! Mathematically ! Remain , my little Theodule , I beseech you . 
My heart says yes , but my orders say no . 
They are changing our garrison we have been at Melun , we are being transferred to Gaillon . 
It is necessary to pass through Paris in order to get from the old post to the new one . 
I said I am going to see my aunt . 
Here is something for your trouble . 
And she put ten louis into his hand . 
For my pleasure , you mean to say , my dear aunt . 
Theodule kissed her again , and she experienced the joy of having some of the skin scratched from her neck by the braidings on his uniform . 
Are you making the journey on horseback , with your regiment ? she asked him . 
I wanted to see you . 
My servant is taking my horse I am travelling by diligence . 
And , by the way , I want to ask you something . 
What is it ? Is my cousin Marius Pontmercy travelling so , too ? How do you know that ? said his aunt , suddenly pricked to the quick with a lively curiosity . 
On my arrival , I went to the diligence to engage my seat in the coupe . 
Well ? A traveller had already come to engage a seat in the imperial . 
I saw his name on the card . 
What name ? Marius Pontmercy . 
The wicked fellow ! exclaimed his aunt . 
Ah ! your cousin is not a steady lad like yourself . 
To think that he is to pass the night in a diligence ! Just as I am going to do . 
But you it is your duty in his case , it is wildness . 
Here an event occurred to Mademoiselle Gillenormand the elder , an idea struck her . 
If she had been a man , she would have slapped her brow . 
She apostrophized Theodule Are you aware whether your cousin knows you ? No. I have seen him but he has never deigned to notice me . 
So you are going to travel together ? He in the imperial , I in the coupe . 
Where does this diligence run ? To Andelys . 
Then that is where Marius is going ? Unless , like myself , he should stop on the way . 
I get down at Vernon , in order to take the branch coach for Gaillon . 
I know nothing of Marius' plan of travel . 
Marius ! what an ugly name ! what possessed them to name him Marius ? While you , at least , are called Theodule . 
I would rather be called Alfred , said the officer . 
I am listening , aunt . 
Well , Marius absents himself ! Eh ! eh ! He travels . 
Ah ! ah ! He spends the night out . 
Oh ! oh ! We should like to know what there is behind all this . 
Theodule replied with the composure of a man of bronze Some petticoat or other . 
And with that inward laugh which denotes certainty , he added A lass . 
She resumed Do us a favor . 
He does not know you , it will be easy . 
Since a lass there is , try to get a sight of her . 
You must write us the tale . 
It will amuse his grandfather . 
Theodule had no excessive taste for this sort of spying but he was much touched by the ten louis , and he thought he saw a chance for a possible sequel . 
He accepted the commission and said As you please , aunt . 
And he added in an aside , to himself Here I am a duenna . 
You are not the man to play such pranks , Theodule . 
You obey discipline , you are the slave of orders , you are a man of scruples and duty , and you would not quit your family to go and see a creature . 
The lancer made the pleased grimace of Cartouche when praised for his probity . 
Marius , on the evening following this dialogue , mounted the diligence without suspecting that he was watched . 
As for the watcher , the first thing he did was to fall asleep . 
His slumber was complete and conscientious . 
Argus snored all night long . 
At daybreak , the conductor of the diligence shouted Vernon ! relay of Vernon ! Travellers for Vernon ! And Lieutenant Theodule woke . 
Good , he growled , still half asleep , this is where I get out . 
This set him to laughing . 
Perhaps he is no longer in the coach , he thought , as he rebuttoned the waistcoat of his undress uniform . 
Run after him , aunty . 
Can that be Marius ? said the lieutenant . 
A little peasant girl , all entangled with the horses and the postilions at the end of the vehicle , was offering flowers to the travellers . 
Give your ladies flowers ! she cried . 
Marius approached her and purchased the finest flowers in her flat basket . 
Come now , said Theodule , leaping down from the coupe , this piques my curiosity . 
Who the deuce is he going to carry those flowers to ? She must be a splendidly handsome woman for so fine a bouquet . 
I want to see her . 
And no longer in pursuance of orders , but from personal curiosity , like dogs who hunt on their own account , he set out to follow Marius . 
Marius paid no attention to Theodule . 
Elegant women descended from the diligence he did not glance at them . 
He seemed to see nothing around him . 
He is pretty deeply in love ! thought Theodule . 
Marius directed his steps towards the church . 
Capital , said Theodule to himself . 
Rendezvous seasoned with a bit of mass are the best sort . 
Nothing is so exquisite as an ogle which passes over the good God's head . 
On arriving at the church , Marius did not enter it , but skirted the apse . 
He disappeared behind one of the angles of the apse . 
The rendezvous is appointed outside , said Theodule . 
Let's have a look at the lass . 
And he advanced on the tips of his boots towards the corner which Marius had turned . 
On arriving there , he halted in amazement . 
Marius , with his forehead clasped in his hands , was kneeling upon the grass on a grave . 
He had strewn his bouquet there . 
At the extremity of the grave , on a little swelling which marked the head , there stood a cross of black wood with this name in white letters COLONEL BARON PONTMERCY . 
The lass was a grave . 
CHAPTER VIII MARBLE AGAINST GRANITE It was hither that Marius had come on the first occasion of his absenting himself from Paris . 
It was hither that he had come every time that M. Gillenormand had said He is sleeping out . 
He retreated , leaving Marius alone in the cemetery , and there was discipline in this retreat . 
Death appeared to him with large epaulets , and he almost made the military salute to him . 
But the youth had taken less time to descend than the old man had to ascend , and when Father Gillenormand entered the attic , Marius was no longer there . 
The bed had not been disturbed , and on the bed lay , outspread , but not defiantly the great coat and the black ribbon . 
I like this better , said M. Gillenormand . 
And a moment later , he made his entrance into the salon , where Mademoiselle Gillenormand was already seated , busily embroidering her cart wheels . 
The entrance was a triumphant one . 
I have the portrait ! In fact , a case of black shagreen , resembling a medallion portrait , was suspended from the ribbon . 
For this evidently is a portrait . 
I know all about such things . 
That is worn tenderly on the heart . 
The case opened by the pressure of a spring . 
They found in it nothing but a carefully folded paper . 
From the same to the same , said M. Gillenormand , bursting with laughter . 
I know what it is . 
Ah ! let us read it ! said the aunt . 
And she put on her spectacles . 
They unfolded the paper and read as follows For my son . 
The Emperor made me a Baron on the battlefield of Waterloo . 
Since the Restoration disputes my right to this title which I purchased with my blood , my son shall take it and bear it . 
That he will be worthy of it is a matter of course . 
The feelings of father and daughter cannot be described . 
They felt chilled as by the breath of a death's head . 
They did not exchange a word . 
Only , M. Gillenormand said in a low voice and as though speaking to himself It is the slasher's handwriting . 
The aunt examined the paper , turned it about in all directions , then put it back in its case . 
At the same moment a little oblong packet , enveloped in blue paper , fell from one of the pockets of the great coat . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand picked it up and unfolded the blue paper . 
It contained Marius' hundred cards . 
She handed one of them to M. Gillenormand , who read Le Baron Marius Pontmercy . 
The old man rang the bell . 
M. Gillenormand took the ribbon , the case , and the coat , flung them all on the floor in the middle of the room , and said Carry those duds away . 
A full hour passed in the most profound silence . 
At the expiration of this hour , Aunt Gillenormand said A pretty state of things ! A few moments later , Marius made his appearance . 
I present you my compliments . 
What is the meaning of this ? Marius reddened slightly and replied It means that I am the son of my father . 
M. Gillenormand ceased to laugh , and said harshly I am your father . 
This was more than M. Gillenormand could bear to hear . 
At the word republic , he rose , or , to speak more correctly , he sprang to his feet . 
Every word that Marius had just uttered produced on the visage of the old Royalist the effect of the puffs of air from a forge upon a blazing brand . 
From a dull hue he had turned red , from red , purple , and from purple , flame colored . 
Marius quivered in every limb , he did not know what would happen next , his brain was on fire . 
He was the priest who beholds all his sacred wafers cast to the winds , the fakir who beholds a passer by spit upon his idol . 
It could not be that such things had been uttered in his presence . 
What was he to do ? His father had just been trampled under foot and stamped upon in his presence , but by whom ? By his grandfather . 
How was he to avenge the one without outraging the other ? It was impossible for him to insult his grandfather and it was equally impossible for him to leave his father unavenged . 
On the one hand was a sacred grave , on the other hoary locks . 
had been dead for four years but it was all the same to him . 
The old man , who had been crimson , turned whiter than his hair . 
He wheeled round towards a bust of M. le Duc de Berry , which stood on the chimney piece , and made a profound bow , with a sort of peculiar majesty . 
On the following day , M. Gillenormand said to his daughter You will send sixty pistoles every six months to that blood drinker , and you will never mention his name to me . 
Marius , on his side , had gone forth in indignation . 
There was one circumstance which , it must be admitted , aggravated his exasperation . 
There are always petty fatalities of the sort which complicate domestic dramas . 
They augment the grievances in such cases , although , in reality , the wrongs are not increased by them . 
Neither paper nor case could afterwards be found . 
Marius was convinced that Monsieur Gillenormand from that day forth he never alluded to him otherwise had flung his father's testament in the fire . 
He knew by heart the few lines which the colonel had written , and , consequently , nothing was lost . 
But the paper , the writing , that sacred relic , all that was his very heart . 
He had entered a hackney coach , had engaged it by the hour , and had directed his course at hap hazard towards the Latin quarter . 
What was to become of Marius ? BOOK FOURTH . 
Breaths which had started forth from the depths of and were in the air . 
Youth was on the point , may the reader pardon us the word , of moulting . 
People were undergoing a transformation , almost without being conscious of it , through the movement of the age . 
The needle which moves round the compass also moves in souls . 
Each person was taking that step in advance which he was bound to take . 
The Royalists were becoming liberals , liberals were turning democrats . 
It was a flood tide complicated with a thousand ebb movements the peculiarity of ebbs is to create intermixtures hence the combination of very singular ideas people adored both Napoleon and liberty . 
We are making history here . 
These were the mirages of that period . 
Voltairian royalism , a quaint variety , had a no less singular sequel , Bonapartist liberalism . 
Other groups of minds were more serious . 
In that direction , they sounded principles , they attached themselves to the right . 
There is nothing like dogma for bringing forth dreams . 
And there is nothing like dreams for engendering the future . 
Utopia to day , flesh and blood to morrow . 
These advanced opinions had a double foundation . 
A beginning of mystery menaced the established order of things , which was suspicious and underhand . 
A sign which was revolutionary to the highest degree . 
The second thoughts of power meet the second thoughts of the populace in the mine . 
The incubation of insurrections gives the retort to the premeditation of coups d'etat . 
They declared themselves the Friends of the A B C , the Abaisse , the debased , that is to say , the people . 
They wished to elevate the people . 
It was a pun which we should do wrong to smile at . 
The assemblies of the Friends of the A B C were usually held in a back room of the Cafe Musain . 
There they smoked and drank , and gambled and laughed . 
There they conversed in very loud tones about everything , and in whispers of other things . 
An old map of France under the Republic was nailed to the wall , a sign quite sufficient to excite the suspicion of a police agent . 
The greater part of the Friends of the A B C were students , who were on cordial terms with the working classes . 
Here are the names of the principal ones . 
They belong , in a certain measure , to history Enjolras , Combeferre , Jean Prouvaire , Feuilly , Courfeyrac , Bahorel , Lesgle or Laigle , Joly , Grantaire . 
These young men formed a sort of family , through the bond of friendship . 
All , with the exception of Laigle , were from the South . 
This was a remarkable group . 
It vanished in the invisible depths which lie behind us . 
Enjolras , whose name we have mentioned first of all , the reader shall see why later on , was an only son and wealthy . 
Enjolras was a charming young man , who was capable of being terrible . 
He was a savage Antinous . 
One would have said , to see the pensive thoughtfulness of his glance , that he had already , in some previous state of existence , traversed the revolutionary apocalypse . 
He possessed the tradition of it as though he had been a witness . 
He was acquainted with all the minute details of the great affair . 
A pontifical and warlike nature , a singular thing in a youth . 
He was an officiating priest and a man of war from the immediate point of view , a soldier of the democracy above the contemporary movement , the priest of the ideal . 
His eyes were deep , his lids a little red , his lower lip was thick and easily became disdainful , his brow was lofty . 
A great deal of brow in a face is like a great deal of horizon in a view . 
Already a man , he still seemed a child . 
His two and twenty years appeared to be but seventeen he was serious , it did not seem as though he were aware there was on earth a thing called woman . 
He had but one passion the right but one thought to overthrow the obstacle . 
On Mount Aventine , he would have been Gracchus in the Convention , he would have been Saint Just . 
He was severe in his enjoyments . 
He chastely dropped his eyes before everything which was not the Republic . 
He was the marble lover of liberty . 
His speech was harshly inspired , and had the thrill of a hymn . 
He was subject to unexpected outbursts of soul . 
By the side of Enjolras , who represented the logic of the Revolution , Combeferre represented its philosophy . 
Between the logic of the Revolution and its philosophy there exists this difference that its logic may end in war , whereas its philosophy can end only in peace . 
Combeferre complemented and rectified Enjolras . 
He was less lofty , but broader . 
The Revolution was more adapted for breathing with Combeferre than with Enjolras . 
Enjolras expressed its divine right , and Combeferre its natural right . 
The first attached himself to Robespierre the second confined himself to Condorcet . 
Combeferre lived the life of all the rest of the world more than did Enjolras . 
If it had been granted to these two young men to attain to history , the one would have been the just , the other the wise man . 
Enjolras was the more virile , Combeferre the more humane . 
Homo and vir , that was the exact effect of their different shades . 
Combeferre was as gentle as Enjolras was severe , through natural whiteness . 
He loved the word citizen , but he preferred the word man . 
He would gladly have said Hombre , like the Spanish . 
He declared that the future lies in the hand of the schoolmaster , and busied himself with educational questions . 
He believed in all dreams , railroads , the suppression of suffering in chirurgical operations , the fixing of images in the dark chamber , the electric telegraph , the steering of balloons . 
Moreover , he was not much alarmed by the citadels erected against the human mind in every direction , by superstition , despotism , and prejudice . 
He was one of those who think that science will eventually turn the position . 
Enjolras was a chief , Combeferre was a guide . 
One would have liked to fight under the one and to march behind the other . 
A conflagration can create an aurora , no doubt , but why not await the dawn ? A volcano illuminates , but daybreak furnishes a still better illumination . 
Possibly , Combeferre preferred the whiteness of the beautiful to the blaze of the sublime . 
A light troubled by smoke , progress purchased at the expense of violence , only half satisfied this tender and serious spirit . 
In short , he desired neither halt nor haste . 
Combeferre would have knelt and clasped his hands to enable the future to arrive in all its candor , and that nothing might disturb the immense and virtuous evolution of the races . 
The good must be innocent , he repeated incessantly . 
Jean Prouvaire was a still softer shade than Combeferre . 
His name was Jehan , owing to that petty momentary freak which mingled with the powerful and profound movement whence sprang the very essential study of the Middle Ages . 
His voice was ordinarily delicate , but suddenly grew manly . 
He was learned even to erudition , and almost an Orientalist . 
Above all , he was good and , a very simple thing to those who know how nearly goodness borders on grandeur , in the matter of poetry , he preferred the immense . 
He knew Italian , Latin , Greek , and Hebrew and these served him only for the perusal of four poets Dante , Juvenal , AEschylus , and Isaiah . 
In French , he preferred Corneille to Racine , and Agrippa d'Aubigne to Corneille . 
He loved to saunter through fields of wild oats and corn flowers , and busied himself with clouds nearly as much as with events . 
His mind had two attitudes , one on the side towards man , the other on that towards God he studied or he contemplated . 
Like Enjolras , he was wealthy and an only son . 
He had one other preoccupation , to educate himself he called this also , delivering himself . 
He had taught himself to read and write everything that he knew , he had learned by himself . 
Feuilly had a generous heart . 
The range of his embrace was immense . 
This orphan had adopted the peoples . 
As his mother had failed him , he meditated on his country . 
In this club of young Utopians , occupied chiefly with France , he represented the outside world . 
He had for his specialty Greece , Poland , Hungary , Roumania , Italy . 
He uttered these names incessantly , appropriately and inappropriately , with the tenacity of right . 
The violations of Turkey on Greece and Thessaly , of Russia on Warsaw , of Austria on Venice , enraged him . 
Above all things , the great violence of aroused him . 
There is no more sovereign eloquence than the true in indignation he was eloquent with that eloquence . 
All contemporary social crimes have their origin in the partition of Poland . 
The partition of Poland is a theorem of which all present political outrages are the corollaries . 
When the record of modern treasons was examined , that was the first thing which made its appearance . 
The congress of Vienna consulted that crime before consummating its own . 
sounded the onset was the death of the game . 
Such was Feuilly's habitual text . 
This poor workingman had constituted himself the tutor of Justice , and she recompensed him by rendering him great . 
The fact is , that there is eternity in right . 
Warsaw can no more be Tartar than Venice can be Teuton . 
Kings lose their pains and their honor in the attempt to make them so . 
Sooner or later , the submerged part floats to the surface and reappears . 
Greece becomes Greece again , Italy is once more Italy . 
The protest of right against the deed persists forever . 
The theft of a nation cannot be allowed by prescription . 
These lofty deeds of rascality have no future . 
A nation cannot have its mark extracted like a pocket handkerchief . 
Courfeyrac had a father who was called M. de Courfeyrac . 
One of the false ideas of the bourgeoisie under the Restoration as regards aristocracy and the nobility was to believe in the particle . 
The particle , as every one knows , possesses no significance . 
But the bourgeois of the epoch of la Minerve estimated so highly that poor de , that they thought themselves bound to abdicate it . 
M. de Chauvelin had himself called M. Chauvelin M. de Caumartin , M. Caumartin M. de Constant de Robecque , Benjamin Constant M. de Lafayette , M. Lafayette . 
Courfeyrac had not wished to remain behind the rest , and called himself plain Courfeyrac . 
We might almost , so far as Courfeyrac is concerned , stop here , and confine ourselves to saying with regard to what remains For Courfeyrac , see Tholomyes . 
Courfeyrac had , in fact , that animation of youth which may be called the beaute du diable of the mind . 
Only , Courfeyrac was an honorable fellow . 
Beneath the apparent similarities of the exterior mind , the difference between him and Tholomyes was very great . 
The latent man which existed in the two was totally different in the first from what it was in the second . 
There was in Tholomyes a district attorney , and in Courfeyrac a paladin . 
Enjolras was the chief , Combeferre was the guide , Courfeyrac was the centre . 
The others gave more light , he shed more warmth the truth is , that he possessed all the qualities of a centre , roundness and radiance . 
Bahorel had figured in the bloody tumult of June , , on the occasion of the burial of young Lallemand . 
He had nosed about the law , but did not practise it . 
He had taken for his device Never a lawyer , and for his armorial bearings a nightstand in which was visible a square cap . 
Every time that he passed the law school , which rarely happened , he buttoned up his frock coat , the paletot had not yet been invented , and took hygienic precautions . 
He wasted a tolerably large allowance , something like three thousand francs a year , in doing nothing . 
He had peasant parents whom he had contrived to imbue with respect for their son . 
He said of them They are peasants and not bourgeois that is the reason they are intelligent . 
Bahorel , a man of caprice , was scattered over numerous cafes the others had habits , he had none . 
In reality , he had a penetrating mind and was more of a thinker than appeared to view . 
He served as a connecting link between the Friends of the A B C and other still unorganized groups , which were destined to take form later on . 
In this conclave of young heads , there was one bald member . 
The Marquis d'Avaray , whom Louis XVIII . 
What is your request ? said the King . 
Sire , a post office . 
What is your name ? L'Aigle . 
The King frowned , glanced at the signature of the petition and beheld the name written thus LESGLE . 
This non Bonoparte orthography touched the King and he began to smile . 
Sire , resumed the man with the petition , I had for ancestor a keeper of the hounds surnamed Lesgueules . 
This surname furnished my name . 
I am called Lesgueules , by contraction Lesgle , and by corruption l'Aigle . 
This caused the King to smile broadly . 
Later on he gave the man the posting office of Meaux , either intentionally or accidentally . 
The bald member of the group was the son of this Lesgle , or Legle , and he signed himself , Legle de Meaux . 
As an abbreviation , his companions called him Bossuet . 
Bossuet was a gay but unlucky fellow . 
His specialty was not to succeed in anything . 
As an offset , he laughed at everything . 
At five and twenty he was bald . 
His father had ended by owning a house and a field but he , the son , had made haste to lose that house and field in a bad speculation . 
He possessed knowledge and wit , but all he did miscarried . 
Everything failed him and everybody deceived him what he was building tumbled down on top of him . 
If he were splitting wood , he cut off a finger . 
If he had a mistress , he speedily discovered that he had a friend also . 
Some misfortune happened to him every moment , hence his joviality . 
He said I live under falling tiles . 
He was poor , but his fund of good humor was inexhaustible . 
He soon reached his last sou , never his last burst of laughter . 
These persecutions of fate had rendered him inventive . 
He was full of resources . 
He had no money , but he found means , when it seemed good to him , to indulge in unbridled extravagance . 
Bossuet was slowly directing his steps towards the profession of a lawyer he was pursuing his law studies after the manner of Bahorel . 
Bossuet had not much domicile , sometimes none at all . 
He lodged now with one , now with another , most often with Joly . 
He was two years younger than Bossuet . 
Joly was the malade imaginaire junior . 
What he had won in medicine was to be more of an invalid than a doctor . 
At three and twenty he thought himself a valetudinarian , and passed his life in inspecting his tongue in the mirror . 
During thunder storms , he felt his pulse . 
Otherwise , he was the gayest of them all . 
You may fly away on the four L's , Jean Prouvaire said to him . 
Joly had a trick of touching his nose with the tip of his cane , which is an indication of a sagacious mind . 
All these young men who differed so greatly , and who , on the whole , can only be discussed seriously , held the same religion Progress . 
All were the direct sons of the French Revolution . 
The most giddy of them became solemn when they pronounced that date . 
They attached themselves , without intermediate shades , to incorruptible right and absolute duty . 
Affiliated and initiated , they sketched out the ideal underground . 
Among all these glowing hearts and thoroughly convinced minds , there was one sceptic . 
How came he there ? By juxtaposition . 
This sceptic's name was Grantaire , and he was in the habit of signing himself with this rebus R. Grantaire was a man who took good care not to believe in anything . 
He knew the best place for everything in addition , boxing and foot fencing and some dances and he was a thorough single stick player . 
He was a tremendous drinker to boot . 
Scepticism , that caries of the intelligence , had not left him a single whole idea . 
This was his axiom There is but one certainty , my full glass . 
He sneered at all devotion in all parties , the father as well as the brother , Robespierre junior as well as Loizerolles . 
They are greatly in advance to be dead , he exclaimed . 
He said of the crucifix There is a gibbet which has been a success . 
A rover , a gambler , a libertine , often drunk , he displeased these young dreamers by humming incessantly J'aimons les filles , et j'aimons le bon vin . 
However , this sceptic had one fanaticism . 
This fanaticism was neither a dogma , nor an idea , nor an art , nor a science it was a man Enjolras . 
Grantaire admired , loved , and venerated Enjolras . 
To whom did this anarchical scoffer unite himself in this phalanx of absolute minds ? To the most absolute . 
In what manner had Enjolras subjugated him ? By his ideas ? No. By his character . 
A phenomenon which is often observable . 
A sceptic who adheres to a believer is as simple as the law of complementary colors . 
That which we lack attracts us . 
No one loves the light like the blind man . 
The dwarf adores the drum major . 
The toad always has his eyes fixed on heaven . 
Why ? In order to watch the bird in its flight . 
Grantaire , in whom writhed doubt , loved to watch faith soar in Enjolras . 
He had need of Enjolras . 
He admired his opposite by instinct . 
His soft , yielding , dislocated , sickly , shapeless ideas attached themselves to Enjolras as to a spinal column . 
His moral backbone leaned on that firmness . 
Grantaire in the presence of Enjolras became some one once more . 
He was , himself , moreover , composed of two elements , which were , to all appearance , incompatible . 
He was ironical and cordial . 
His mind could get along without belief , but his heart could not get along without friendship . 
A profound contradiction for an affection is a conviction . 
His nature was thus constituted . 
There are men who seem to be born to be the reverse , the obverse , the wrong side . 
They are Pollux , Patrocles , Nisus , Eudamidas , Ephestion , Pechmeja . 
Grantaire was one of these men . 
He was the obverse of Enjolras . 
One might almost say that affinities begin with the letters of the alphabet . 
In the series O and P are inseparable . 
You can , at will , pronounce O and P or Orestes and Pylades . 
Grantaire , Enjolras' true satellite , inhabited this circle of young men he lived there , he took no pleasure anywhere but there he followed them everywhere . 
His joy was to see these forms go and come through the fumes of wine . 
They tolerated him on account of his good humor . 
Enjolras , the believer , disdained this sceptic and , a sober man himself , scorned this drunkard . 
He accorded him a little lofty pity . 
Grantaire was an unaccepted Pylades . 
He had the air of a caryatid on a vacation he carried nothing but his revery , however . 
He was staring at the Place Saint Michel . 
To lean one's back against a thing is equivalent to lying down while standing erect , which attitude is not hated by thinkers . 
Revery does not prevent a cab from passing by , nor the dreamer from taking note of that cab . 
For whom was this cabriolet ? Why was it driving at a walk ? Laigle took a survey . 
In it , beside the coachman , sat a young man , and in front of the young man lay a rather bulky hand bag . 
The bag displayed to passers by the following name inscribed in large black letters on a card which was sewn to the stuff MARIUS PONTMERCY . 
This name caused Laigle to change his attitude . 
He drew himself up and hurled this apostrophe at the young man in the cabriolet Monsieur Marius Pontmercy ! The cabriolet thus addressed came to a halt . 
The young man , who also seemed deeply buried in thought , raised his eyes Hey ? said he . 
You are M. Marius Pontmercy ? Certainly . 
I was looking for you , resumed Laigle de Meaux . 
How so ? demanded Marius for it was he in fact , he had just quitted his grandfather's , and had before him a face which he now beheld for the first time . 
I do not know you . 
Neither do I know you , responded Laigle . 
Marius thought he had encountered a wag , the beginning of a mystification in the open street . 
He was not in a very good humor at the moment . 
Laigle de Meaux went on imperturbably You were not at the school day before yesterday . 
You are a student ? demanded Marius . 
Day before yesterday , I entered the school , by chance . 
You know , one does have such freaks sometimes . 
The professor was just calling the roll . 
You are not unaware that they are very ridiculous on such occasions . 
At the third call , unanswered , your name is erased from the list . 
Sixty francs in the gulf . 
It was Blondeau who was making the call . 
You know Blondeau , he has a very pointed and very malicious nose , and he delights to scent out the absent . 
He slyly began with the letter P. I was not listening , not being compromised by that letter . 
The call was not going badly . 
No erasures the universe was present . 
I said to myself Blondeau , my love , you will not get the very smallest sort of an execution to day . 
All at once Blondeau calls , Marius Pontmercy ! No one answers . 
Blondeau , filled with hope , repeats more loudly Marius Pontmercy ! And he takes his pen . 
Monsieur , I have bowels of compassion . 
I said to myself hastily Here's a brave fellow who is going to get scratched out . 
Here is a veritable mortal who is not exact . 
He's not a good student . 
And why I was , added Laigle de Meaux . 
I do not understand you , said Marius . 
Laigle resumed Nothing is more simple . 
I was close to the desk to reply , and close to the door for the purpose of flight . 
The professor gazed at me with a certain intensity . 
All of a sudden , Blondeau , who must be the malicious nose alluded to by Boileau , skipped to the letter L. L is my letter . 
I am from Meaux , and my name is Lesgle . 
A phrase which has a disobliging air for you , but which was lugubrious only for me . 
That said , he crossed me off . 
Marius exclaimed I am mortified , sir First of all , interposed Laigle , I demand permission to embalm Blondeau in a few phrases of deeply felt eulogium . 
I will assume that he is dead . 
There will be no great change required in his gauntness , in his pallor , in his coldness , and in his smell . 
And I say Erudimini qui judicatis terram . 
God crossed him off as he crossed me off . 
Marius resumed I am very sorry Young man , said Laigle de Meaux , let this serve you as a lesson . 
In future , be exact . 
I really beg you a thousand pardons . 
Do not expose your neighbor to the danger of having his name erased again . 
I am extremely sorry Laigle burst out laughing . 
I was on the brink of becoming a lawyer . 
I renounce the triumphs of the bar . 
I shall not defend the widow , and I shall not attack the orphan . 
No more toga , no more stage . 
Here is my erasure all ready for me . 
It is to you that I am indebted for it , Monsieur Pontmercy . 
I intend to pay a solemn call of thanks upon you . 
Where do you live ? In this cab , said Marius . 
A sign of opulence , retorted Laigle calmly . 
You have there a rent of nine thousand francs per annum . 
At that moment , Courfeyrac emerged from the cafe . 
Come to my place , sir , said Courfeyrac . 
I have the priority , observed Laigle , but I have no home . 
Hold your tongue , Bossuet , said Courfeyrac . 
Bossuet , said Marius , but I thought that your name was Laigle . 
De Meaux , replied Laigle by metaphor , Bossuet . 
Coachman , said he , hotel de la Porte Saint Jacques . 
And that very evening , Marius found himself installed in a chamber of the hotel de la Porte Saint Jacques side by side with Courfeyrac . 
CHAPTER III MARIUS' ASTONISHMENTS In a few days , Marius had become Courfeyrac's friend . 
Youth is the season for prompt welding and the rapid healing of scars . 
Marius breathed freely in Courfeyrac's society , a decidedly new thing for him . 
Courfeyrac put no questions to him . 
He did not even think of such a thing . 
At that age , faces disclose everything on the spot . 
There are young men of whom it can be said that their countenances chatter . 
One looks at them and one knows them . 
One morning , however , Courfeyrac abruptly addressed this interrogation to him By the way , have you any political opinions ? The idea ! said Marius , almost affronted by the question . 
What are you ? A democrat Bonapartist . 
The gray hue of a reassured rat , said Courfeyrac . 
On the following day , Courfeyrac introduced Marius at the Cafe Musain . 
Then he whispered in his ear , with a smile I must give you your entry to the revolution . 
Marius had fallen into a wasps' nest of wits . 
However , although he was silent and grave , he was , none the less , both winged and armed . 
All these various initiatives solicited his attention at once , and pulled him about . 
The tumultuous movements of these minds at liberty and at work set his ideas in a whirl . 
Sometimes , in his trouble , they fled so far from him , that he had difficulty in recovering them . 
He heard them talk of philosophy , of literature , of art , of history , of religion , in unexpected fashion . 
He caught glimpses of strange aspects and , as he did not place them in proper perspective , he was not altogether sure that it was not chaos that he grasped . 
The angle at which he saw everything began to be displaced anew . 
A certain oscillation set all the horizons of his brains in motion . 
He almost suffered from it . 
It seemed as though there were no consecrated things for those young men . 
Marius heard singular propositions on every sort of subject , which embarrassed his still timid mind . 
A theatre poster presented itself , adorned with the title of a tragedy from the ancient repertory called classic Down with tragedy dear to the bourgeois ! cried Bahorel . 
And Marius heard Combeferre reply You are wrong , Bahorel . 
The bourgeoisie loves tragedy , and the bourgeoisie must be left at peace on that score . 
Bewigged tragedy has a reason for its existence , and I am not one of those who , by order of AEschylus , contest its right to existence . 
Now , since poultry exists by the side of the bird , I do not see why classic tragedy should not exist in the face of antique tragedy . 
Or chance decreed that Marius should traverse Rue Jean Jacques Rousseau between Enjolras and Courfeyrac . 
Courfeyrac took his arm Pay attention . 
This is the Rue Platriere , now called Rue Jean Jacques Rousseau , on account of a singular household which lived in it sixty years ago . 
This consisted of Jean Jacques and Therese . 
From time to time , little beings were born there . 
Therese gave birth to them , Jean Jacques represented them as foundlings . 
And Enjolras addressed Courfeyrac roughly Silence in the presence of Jean Jacques ! I admire that man . 
He denied his own children , that may be but he adopted the people . 
Not one of these young men articulated the word The Emperor . 
Jean Prouvaire alone sometimes said Napoleon all the others said Bonaparte . 
This took place in the back room of the Cafe Musain . 
Nearly all the Friends of the A B C had convened that evening . 
The argand lamp was solemnly lighted . 
They talked of one thing and another , without passion and with noise . 
With the exception of Enjolras and Marius , who held their peace , all were haranguing rather at hap hazard . 
Conversations between comrades sometimes are subject to these peaceable tumults . 
It was a game and an uproar as much as a conversation . 
They tossed words to each other and caught them up in turn . 
They were chattering in all quarters . 
Grantaire , thoroughly drunk , was deafening the corner of which he had taken possession , reasoning and contradicting at the top of his lungs , and shouting I am thirsty . 
Mortals , I am dreaming that the tun of Heidelberg has an attack of apoplexy , and that I am one of the dozen leeches which will be applied to it . 
I desire to forget life . 
Life is a hideous invention of I know not whom . 
It lasts no time at all , and is worth nothing . 
One breaks one's neck in living . 
Life is a theatre set in which there are but few practicable entrances . 
Happiness is an antique reliquary painted on one side only . 
Ecclesiastes says All is vanity . 
I agree with that good man , who never existed , perhaps . 
Zero not wishing to go stark naked , clothed himself in vanity . 
I weep over the one and I laugh over the other . 
What are called honors and dignities , and even dignity and honor , are generally of pinchbeck . 
Kings make playthings of human pride . 
Caligula made a horse a consul Charles II . 
made a knight of a sirloin . 
Wrap yourself up now , then , between Consul Incitatus and Baronet Roastbeef . 
As for the intrinsic value of people , it is no longer respectable in the least . 
Listen to the panegyric which neighbor makes of neighbor . 
It is a shame that I am ignorant , otherwise I would quote to you a mass of things but I know nothing . 
So much for myself as for the rest of you , you are worth no more than I am . 
I scoff at your perfections , excellencies , and qualities . 
Whom do you admire , the slain or the slayer , Caesar or Brutus ? Generally men are in favor of the slayer . 
Long live Brutus , he has slain ! There lies the virtue . 
Virtue , granted , but madness also . 
There are queer spots on those great men . 
The Brutus who killed Caesar was in love with the statue of a little boy . 
This Strongylion left but two statues which placed Nero and Brutus in accord . 
Brutus was in love with the one , Nero with the other . 
All history is nothing but wearisome repetition . 
One century is the plagiarist of the other . 
The battle of Marengo copies the battle of Pydna the Tolbiac of Clovis and the Austerlitz of Napoleon are as like each other as two drops of water . 
I don't attach much importance to victory . 
Nothing is so stupid as to conquer true glory lies in convincing . 
But try to prove something ! If you are content with success , what mediocrity , and with conquering , what wretchedness ! Alas , vanity and cowardice everywhere . 
Everything obeys success , even grammar . 
Si volet usus , says Horace . 
Therefore I disdain the human race . 
There stood on the great square in Corinth a statue carved by Silanion and catalogued by Pliny this statue represented Episthates . 
What did Episthates do ? He invented a trip . 
That sums up Greece and glory . 
Let us pass on to others . 
Shall I admire England ? Shall I admire France ? France ? Why ? Because of Paris ? I have just told you my opinion of Athens . 
England ? Why ? Because of London ? I hate Carthage . 
And then , London , the metropolis of luxury , is the headquarters of wretchedness . 
There are a hundred deaths a year of hunger in the parish of Charing Cross alone . 
I add , as the climax , that I have seen an Englishwoman dancing in a wreath of roses and blue spectacles . 
A fig then for England ! If I do not admire John Bull , shall I admire Brother Jonathan ? I have but little taste for that slave holding brother . 
Take away Time is money , what remains of England ? Take away Cotton is king , what remains of America ? Germany is the lymph , Italy is the bile . 
Shall we go into ecstasies over Russia ? Voltaire admired it . 
I admit that Russia has its beauties , among others , a stout despotism but I pity the despots . 
Paris carries the day , in short . 
In Paris , even the rag pickers are sybarites Diogenes would have loved to be a rag picker of the Place Maubert better than to be a philosopher at the Piraeus . 
Learn this in addition the wineshops of the ragpickers are called bibines the most celebrated are the Saucepan and The Slaughter House . 
The slang term for a painter's assistant . 
Thus did Grantaire , more than intoxicated , launch into speech , catching at the dish washer in her passage , from his corner in the back room of the Cafe Musain . 
Bossuet , extending his hand towards him , tried to impose silence on him , and Grantaire began again worse than ever Aigle de Meaux , down with your paws . 
You produce on me no effect with your gesture of Hippocrates refusing Artaxerxes' bric a brac . 
I excuse you from the task of soothing me . 
Moreover , I am sad . 
What do you wish me to say to you ? Man is evil , man is deformed the butterfly is a success , man is a failure . 
God made a mistake with that animal . 
A crowd offers a choice of ugliness . 
The first comer is a wretch , Femme woman rhymes with infame , infamous . 
Near Grantaire , an almost silent table , a sheet of paper , an inkstand and a pen between two glasses of brandy , announced that a vaudeville was being sketched out . 
This great affair was being discussed in a low voice , and the two heads at work touched each other Let us begin by finding names . 
When one has the names , one finds the subject . 
An independent gentleman ? Of course . 
What next ? Colonel Sainval . 
Beside the vaudeville aspirants , another group , which was also taking advantage of the uproar to talk low , was discussing a duel . 
An old fellow of thirty was counselling a young one of eighteen , and explaining to him what sort of an adversary he had to deal with . 
The deuce ! Look out for yourself . 
He is a fine swordsman . 
He has the attack , no wasted feints , wrist , dash , lightning , a just parade , mathematical parries , bigre ! and he is left handed . 
In the angle opposite Grantaire , Joly and Bahorel were playing dominoes , and talking of love . 
You are in luck , that you are , Joly was saying . 
You have a mistress who is always laughing . 
That is a fault of hers , returned Bahorel . 
One's mistress does wrong to laugh . 
That encourages one to deceive her . 
To see her gay removes your remorse if you see her sad , your conscience pricks you . 
Ingrate ! a woman who laughs is such a good thing ! And you never quarrel ! That is because of the treaty which we have made . 
On forming our little Holy Alliance we assigned ourselves each our frontier , which we never cross . 
What is situated on the side of winter belongs to Vaud , on the side of the wind to Gex . 
And you , Jolllly , where do you stand in your entanglement with Mamselle you know whom I mean ? She sulks at me with cruel patience . 
Yet you are a lover to soften the heart with gauntness . 
Alas ! In your place , I would let her alone . 
That is easy enough to say . 
Is not her name Musichetta ? Yes . 
I am wild over her . 
My dear fellow , then in order to please her , you must be elegant , and produce effects with your knees . 
Buy a good pair of trousers of double milled cloth at Staub's . 
At what price ? shouted Grantaire . 
The third corner was delivered up to a poetical discussion . 
Pagan mythology was giving battle to Christian mythology . 
The question was about Olympus , whose part was taken by Jean Prouvaire , out of pure romanticism . 
Jean Prouvaire was timid only in repose . 
Once excited , he burst forth , a sort of mirth accentuated his enthusiasm , and he was at once both laughing and lyric . 
Let us not insult the gods , said he . 
The gods may not have taken their departure . 
Jupiter does not impress me as dead . 
The gods are dreams , you say . 
Well , even in nature , such as it is to day , after the flight of these dreams , we still find all the grand old pagan myths . 
In the last corner , they were talking politics . 
The Charter which had been granted was getting roughly handled . 
Combeferre was upholding it weakly . 
Courfeyrac was energetically making a breach in it . 
On the table lay an unfortunate copy of the famous Touquet Charter . 
Courfeyrac had seized it , and was brandishing it , mingling with his arguments the rattling of this sheet of paper . 
In the first place , I won't have any kings if it were only from an economical point of view , I don't want any a king is a parasite . 
One does not have kings gratis . 
Listen to this the dearness of kings . 
At the death of Francois I. , the national debt of France amounted to an income of thirty thousand livres at the death of Louis XIV . 
In the second place , and no offence to Combeferre , a charter granted is but a poor expedient of civilization . 
Principles dwindle and pale in your constitutional cellar . 
No illegitimacy , no compromise , no grant from the king to the people . 
In all such grants there is an Article . 
By the side of the hand which gives there is the claw which snatches back . 
I refuse your charter point blank . 
A charter is a mask the lie lurks beneath it . 
A people which accepts a charter abdicates . 
The law is only the law when entire . 
No ! no charter ! It was winter a couple of fagots were crackling in the fireplace . 
This was tempting , and Courfeyrac could not resist . 
He crumpled the poor Touquet Charter in his fist , and flung it in the fire . 
Combeferre watched the masterpiece of Louis XVIII . 
burn philosophically , and contented himself with saying The charter metamorphosed into flame . 
CHAPTER V ENLARGEMENT OF HORIZON The shocks of youthful minds among themselves have this admirable property , that one can never foresee the spark , nor divine the lightning flash . 
What will dart out presently ? No one knows . 
The burst of laughter starts from a tender feeling . 
At the moment of jest , the serious makes its entry . 
Impulses depend on the first chance word . 
The spirit of each is sovereign , jest suffices to open the field to the unexpected . 
These are conversations with abrupt turns , in which the perspective changes suddenly . 
Chance is the stage manager of such conversations . 
In the midst of the uproar , Bossuet all at once terminated some apostrophe to Combeferre , with this date June th , , Waterloo . 
, that number is strange and strikes me . 
It is Bonaparte's fatal number . 
Place Louis in front and Brumaire behind , you have the whole destiny of the man , with this significant peculiarity , that the end treads close on the heels of the commencement . 
Enjolras , who had remained mute up to that point , broke the silence and addressed this remark to Combeferre You mean to say , the crime and the expiation . 
This word crime overpassed the measure of what Marius , who was already greatly agitated by the abrupt evocation of Waterloo , could accept . 
This was like a breath of icy air . 
They felt that something was on the point of occurring . 
Bahorel , replying to Bossuet , was just assuming an attitude of the torso to which he was addicted . 
He gave it up to listen . 
France is great because she is France . 
Come ! let us argue the question . 
I am a new comer among you , but I will confess that you amaze me . 
Where do we stand ? Who are we ? Who are you ? Who am I ? Let us come to an explanation about the Emperor . 
I hear you say Buonaparte , accenting the u like the Royalists . 
I warn you that my grandfather does better still he says Buonaparte' . 
I thought you were young men . 
He had in his brain the sum of human faculties . 
Silence always produces somewhat the effect of acquiescence , of the enemy being driven to the wall . 
Marius lowered his head in his turn that cold and simple word had traversed his epic effusion like a blade of steel , and he felt it vanishing within him . 
When he raised his eyes , Combeferre was no longer there . 
Probably satisfied with his reply to the apotheosis , he had just taken his departure , and all , with the exception of Enjolras , had followed him . 
The room had been emptied . 
Enjolras , left alone with Marius , was gazing gravely at him . 
The wild and tender accents with which Combeferre sang communicated to this couplet a sort of strange grandeur . 
Marius , thoughtfully , and with his eyes diked on the ceiling , repeated almost mechanically My mother ? At that moment , he felt Enjolras' hand on his shoulder . 
Citizen , said Enjolras to him , my mother is the Republic . 
CHAPTER VI RES ANGUSTA That evening left Marius profoundly shaken , and with a melancholy shadow in his soul . 
He had but just acquired a faith must he then reject it already ? He affirmed to himself that he would not . 
He declared to himself that he would not doubt , and he began to doubt in spite of himself . 
Marius was clear eyed , and he required the true light . 
The half lights of doubt pained him . 
His discomfort was augmented by all the reflections which occurred to him . 
An escarpment rose around him . 
He ceased to go to the Cafe Musain . 
In the troubled state of his conscience , he no longer thought of certain serious sides of existence . 
The realities of life do not allow themselves to be forgotten . 
They soon elbowed him abruptly . 
One morning , the proprietor of the hotel entered Marius' room and said to him Monsieur Courfeyrac answered for you . 
But I must have my money . 
Request Courfeyrac to come and talk with me , said Marius . 
Courfeyrac having made his appearance , the host left them . 
Marius then told him what it had not before occurred to him to relate , that he was the same as alone in the world , and had no relatives . 
What is to become of you ? said Courfeyrac . 
I do not know in the least , replied Marius . 
What are you going to do ? I do not know . 
Have you any money ? Fifteen francs . 
Do you want me to lend you some ? Never . 
Have you clothes ? Here is what I have . 
Have you trinkets ? A watch . 
Silver ? Gold here it is . 
I know a clothes dealer who will take your frock coat and a pair of trousers . 
You will then have only a pair of trousers , a waistcoat , a hat and a coat . 
What ! you will not go barefoot ? What opulence ! That will be enough . 
I know a watchmaker who will buy your watch . 
No it is not good . 
What will you do after that ? Whatever is necessary . 
Anything honest , that is to say . 
Do you know English ? No. Do you know German ? No. So much the worse . 
Why ? Because one of my friends , a publisher , is getting up a sort of an encyclopaedia , for which you might have translated English or German articles . 
It is badly paid work , but one can live by it . 
I will learn English and German . 
And in the meanwhile ? In the meanwhile I will live on my clothes and my watch . 
The clothes dealer was sent for . 
He paid twenty francs for the cast off garments . 
They went to the watchmaker's . 
He bought the watch for forty five francs . 
That is not bad , said Marius to Courfeyrac , on their return to the hotel , with my fifteen francs , that makes eighty . 
And the hotel bill ? observed Courfeyrac . 
Hello , I had forgotten that , said Marius . 
The landlord presented his bill , which had to be paid on the spot . 
It amounted to seventy francs . 
I have ten francs left , said Marius . 
The deuce , exclaimed Courfeyrac , you will eat up five francs while you are learning English , and five while learning German . 
That will be swallowing a tongue very fast , or a hundred sous very slowly . 
In the meantime Aunt Gillenormand , a rather good hearted person at bottom in difficulties , had finally hunted up Marius' abode . 
At that moment , he had three francs left . 
His aunt did not inform his grandfather of this refusal for fear of exasperating him . 
THE EXCELLENCE OF MISFORTUNE CHAPTER I MARIUS INDIGENT Life became hard for Marius . 
It was nothing to eat his clothes and his watch . 
He ate of that terrible , inexpressible thing that is called de la vache enrage that is to say , he endured great hardships and privations . 
Marius learned how all this is eaten , and how such are often the only things which one has to devour . 
Admirable and terrible trial from which the feeble emerge base , from which the strong emerge sublime . 
A crucible into which destiny casts a man , whenever it desires a scoundrel or a demi god . 
For many great deeds are performed in petty combats . 
There are instances of bravery ignored and obstinate , which defend themselves step by step in that fatal onslaught of necessities and turpitudes . 
Noble and mysterious triumphs which no eye beholds , which are requited with no renown , which are saluted with no trumpet blast . 
On this cutlet , which he cooked for himself , he lived for three days . 
On the first day he ate the meat , on the second he ate the fat , on the third he gnawed the bone . 
Aunt Gillenormand made repeated attempts , and sent him the sixty pistoles several times . 
Marius returned them on every occasion , saying that he needed nothing . 
He was still in mourning for his father when the revolution which we have just described was effected within him . 
From that time forth , he had not put off his black garments . 
But his garments were quitting him . 
The day came when he had no longer a coat . 
The trousers would go next . 
What was to be done ? Courfeyrac , to whom he had , on his side , done some good turns , gave him an old coat . 
For thirty sous , Marius got it turned by some porter or other , and it was a new coat . 
But this coat was green . 
Then Marius ceased to go out until after nightfall . 
This made his coat black . 
As he wished always to appear in mourning , he clothed himself with the night . 
In spite of all this , he got admitted to practice as a lawyer . 
He had his letters addressed to Courfeyrac's quarters . 
When Marius became a lawyer , he informed his grandfather of the fact in a letter which was cold but full of submission and respect . 
M. Gillenormand trembled as he took the letter , read it , tore it in four pieces , and threw it into the waste basket . 
Two or three days later , Mademoiselle Gillenormand heard her father , who was alone in his room , talking aloud to himself . 
He always did this whenever he was greatly agitated . 
She listened , and the old man was saying If you were not a fool , you would know that one cannot be a baron and a lawyer at the same time . 
CHAPTER II MARIUS POOR It is the same with wretchedness as with everything else . 
It ends by becoming bearable . 
It finally assumes a form , and adjusts itself . 
One vegetates , that is to say , one develops in a certain meagre fashion , which is , however , sufficient for life . 
This is the mode in which the existence of Marius Pontmercy was arranged He had passed the worst straits the narrow pass was opening out a little in front of him . 
By dint of toil , perseverance , courage , and will , he had managed to draw from his work about seven hundred francs a year . 
He drew up prospectuses , translated newspapers , annotated editions , compiled biographies , etc . 
net product , year in and year out , seven hundred francs . 
How ? Not so badly . 
This furniture belonged to him . 
He breakfasted on this egg and roll . 
His breakfast varied in cost from two to four sous , according as eggs were dear or cheap . 
At six o'clock in the evening he descended the Rue Saint Jacques to dine at Rousseau's , opposite Basset's , the stamp dealer's , on the corner of the Rue des Mathurins . 
He took a six sou plate of meat , a half portion of vegetables for three sous , and a three sou dessert . 
For three sous he got as much bread as he wished . 
As for wine , he drank water . 
For sixteen sous he had a smile and a dinner . 
This Restaurant Rousseau , where so few bottles and so many water carafes were emptied , was a calming potion rather than a restaurant . 
The proprietor had a fine nickname he was called Rousseau the Aquatic . 
Thus , breakfast four sous , dinner sixteen sous his food cost him twenty sous a day which made three hundred and sixty five francs a year . 
His clothing cost him a hundred francs , his linen fifty francs , his washing fifty francs the whole did not exceed six hundred and fifty francs . 
He sometimes lent ten francs to a friend . 
Courfeyrac had once been able to borrow sixty francs of him . 
As far as fire was concerned , as Marius had no fireplace , he had simplified matters . 
Marius always had two complete suits of clothes , the one old , for every day the other , brand new for special occasions . 
He had but three shirts , one on his person , the second in the commode , and the third in the washerwoman's hands . 
He renewed them as they wore out . 
They were always ragged , which caused him to button his coat to the chin . 
It had required years for Marius to attain to this flourishing condition . 
Hard years difficult , some of them , to traverse , others to climb . 
Marius had not failed for a single day . 
He had endured everything in the way of destitution he had done everything except contract debts . 
He did himself the justice to say that he had never owed any one a sou . 
A debt was , to him , the beginning of slavery . 
Rather than borrow , he went without food . 
He had passed many a day fasting . 
Such and such a formality or action , which , in any other situation would have appeared merely a deference to him , now seemed insipidity , and he nerved himself against it . 
His face wore a sort of severe flush . 
He was timid even to rudeness . 
During all these trials he had felt himself encouraged and even uplifted , at times , by a secret force that he possessed within himself . 
The soul aids the body , and at certain moments , raises it . 
It is the only bird which bears up its own cage . 
Besides his father's name , another name was graven in Marius' heart , the name of Thenardier . 
He never separated the memory of this man from the memory of his father , and he associated them in his veneration . 
It was a sort of worship in two steps , with the grand altar for the colonel and the lesser one for Thenardier . 
What redoubled the tenderness of his gratitude towards Thenardier , was the idea of the distress into which he knew that Thenardier had fallen , and which had engulfed the latter . 
Marius had learned at Montfermeil of the ruin and bankruptcy of the unfortunate inn keeper . 
Since that time , he had made unheard of efforts to find traces of him and to reach him in that dark abyss of misery in which Thenardier had disappeared . 
Marius had beaten the whole country he had gone to Chelles , to Bondy , to Gourney , to Nogent , to Lagny . 
He had persisted for three years , expending in these explorations the little money which he had laid by . 
No one had been able to give him any news of Thenardier he was supposed to have gone abroad . 
His creditors had also sought him , with less love than Marius , but with as much assiduity , and had not been able to lay their hands on him . 
Marius blamed himself , and was almost angry with himself for his lack of success in his researches . 
It was the only debt left him by the colonel , and Marius made it a matter of honor to pay it . 
To see Thenardier , to render Thenardier some service , to say to him You do not know me well , I do know you ! Here I am . 
Dispose of me ! This was Marius' sweetest and most magnificent dream . 
CHAPTER III MARIUS GROWN UP At this epoch , Marius was twenty years of age . 
It was three years since he had left his grandfather . 
Both parties had remained on the same terms , without attempting to approach each other , and without seeking to see each other . 
Besides , what was the use of seeing each other ? Marius was the brass vase , while Father Gillenormand was the iron pot . 
We admit that Marius was mistaken as to his grandfather's heart . 
There are fathers who do not love their children there exists no grandfather who does not adore his grandson . 
At bottom , as we have said , M. Gillenormand idolized Marius . 
At first , he hoped that this Buonapartist , this Jacobin , this terrorist , this Septembrist , would return . 
But the weeks passed by , years passed to M. Gillenormand's great despair , the blood drinker did not make his appearance . 
He had his hours of depression . 
Old men need affection as they need the sun . 
Strong as his nature was , the absence of Marius had wrought some change in him . 
Nothing in the world could have induced him to take a step towards that rogue but he suffered . 
He never inquired about him , but he thought of him incessantly . 
What augmented Father Gillenormand's secret suffering was , that he locked it all up within his breast , and did not allow its existence to be divined . 
His sorrow was like those recently invented furnaces which consume their own smoke . 
While the old man regretted , Marius applauded himself . 
As is the case with all good hearted people , misfortune had eradicated his bitterness . 
He only thought of M. Gillenormand in an amiable light , but he had set his mind on not receiving anything more from the man who had been unkind to his father . 
This was the mitigated translation of his first indignation . 
Moreover , he was happy at having suffered , and at suffering still . 
It was for his father's sake . 
The hardness of his life satisfied and pleased him . 
Words which Marius continued to wear , not on his breast , since the colonel's writing had disappeared , but in his heart . 
And then , on the day when his grandfather had turned him out of doors , he had been only a child , now he was a man . 
Misery , we repeat , had been good for him . 
Poverty in youth , when it succeeds , has this magnificent property about it , that it turns the whole will towards effort , and the whole soul towards aspiration . 
Poverty instantly lays material life bare and renders it hideous hence inexpressible bounds towards the ideal life . 
The poor young man wins his bread with difficulty he eats when he has eaten , he has nothing more but meditation . 
He gazes so much on humanity that he perceives its soul , he gazes upon creation to such an extent that he beholds God . 
He dreams , he feels himself great he dreams on , and feels himself tender . 
From the egotism of the man who suffers he passes to the compassion of the man who meditates . 
An admirable sentiment breaks forth in him , forgetfulness of self and pity for all . 
All hatred departs from his heart , in proportion as light penetrates his spirit . 
And is he unhappy ? No. The misery of a young man is never miserable . 
This is what had happened with Marius . 
To tell the truth , he inclined a little too much to the side of contemplation . 
In the meantime , although he was a lawyer , and whatever Father Gillenormand thought about the matter , he was not practising , he was not even pettifogging . 
Meditation had turned him aside from pleading . 
To be well lodged ! Fifteen hundred francs ! No doubt . 
Owing to his taste for remaining outside of everything , and through having been too much alarmed , he had not entered decidedly into the group presided over by Enjolras . 
They had remained good friends they were ready to assist each other on occasion in every possible way but nothing more . 
Marius had two friends one young , Courfeyrac and one old , M. Mabeuf . 
He inclined more to the old man . 
In the first place , he owed to him the revolution which had taken place within him to him he was indebted for having known and loved his father . 
He operated on me for a cataract , he said . 
The churchwarden had certainly played a decisive part . 
It was not , however , that M. Mabeuf had been anything but the calm and impassive agent of Providence in this connection . 
He had enlightened Marius by chance and without being aware of the fact , as does a candle which some one brings he had been the candle and not the some one . 
As for Marius' inward political revolution , M. Mabeuf was totally incapable of comprehending it , of willing or of directing it . 
As we shall see M. Mabeuf again , later on , a few words will not be superfluous . 
CHAPTER IV M. MABEUF On the day when M. Mabeuf said to Marius Certainly I approve of political opinions , he expressed the real state of his mind . 
M. Mabeuf's political opinion consisted in a passionate love for plants , and , above all , for books . 
He did not understand how men could busy themselves with hating each other because of silly stuff like the charter , democracy , legitimacy , monarchy , the republic , etc . 
He took good care not to become useless having books did not prevent his reading , being a botanist did not prevent his being a gardener . 
When he made Pontmercy's acquaintance , this sympathy had existed between the colonel and himself that what the colonel did for flowers , he did for fruits . 
M. Mabeuf had succeeded in producing seedling pears as savory as the pears of St . 
Germain it is from one of his combinations , apparently , that the October Mirabelle , now celebrated and no less perfumed than the summer Mirabelle , owes its origin . 
Feeling that he must be something in the State , he had chosen the career of warden . 
However , he had never succeeded in loving any woman as much as a tulip bulb , nor any man as much as an Elzevir . 
He had long passed sixty , when , one day , some one asked him Have you never been married ? I have forgotten , said he . 
He lived alone with an old housekeeper . 
He was somewhat gouty , and when he was asleep , his aged fingers , stiffened with rheumatism , lay crooked up in the folds of his sheets . 
He had composed and published a Flora of the Environs of Cauteretz , with colored plates , a work which enjoyed a tolerable measure of esteem and which sold well . 
People rang his bell , in the Rue Mesieres , two or three times a day , to ask for it . 
He drew as much as two thousand francs a year from it this constituted nearly the whole of his fortune . 
Although poor , he had had the talent to form for himself , by dint of patience , privations , and time , a precious collection of rare copies of every sort . 
He never went out without a book under his arm , and he often returned with two . 
The sole decoration of the four rooms on the ground floor , which composed his lodgings , consisted of framed herbariums , and engravings of the old masters . 
The sight of a sword or a gun chilled his blood . 
He had never approached a cannon in his life , even at the Invalides . 
Add to this , that he had no other friendship , no other acquaintance among the living , than an old bookseller of the Porte Saint Jacques , named Royal . 
His dream was to naturalize indigo in France . 
His servant was also a sort of innocent . 
The poor good old woman was a spinster . 
Sultan , her cat , which might have mewed Allegri's miserere in the Sixtine Chapel , had filled her heart and sufficed for the quantity of passion which existed in her . 
None of her dreams had ever proceeded as far as man . 
She had never been able to get further than her cat . 
Like him , she had a mustache . 
Her glory consisted in her caps , which were always white . 
She knew how to read . 
M. Mabeuf had nicknamed her Mother Plutarque . 
M. Mabeuf had taken a fancy to Marius , because Marius , being young and gentle , warmed his age without startling his timidity . 
Youth combined with gentleness produces on old people the effect of the sun without wind . 
His brother the cure died about , and almost immediately , as when the night is drawing on , the whole horizon grew dark for M. Mabeuf . 
A notary's failure deprived him of the sum of ten thousand francs , which was all that he possessed in his brother's right and his own . 
The Revolution of July brought a crisis to publishing . 
In a period of embarrassment , the first thing which does not sell is a Flora . 
The Flora of the Environs of Cauteretz stopped short . 
Weeks passed by without a single purchaser . 
Sometimes M. Mabeuf started at the sound of the bell . 
Monsieur , said Mother Plutarque sadly , it is the water carrier . 
He took advantage of this removal to sell off nearly all his furniture . 
Their own destiny is a far off thing to them . 
There results from such concentration a passivity , which , if it were the outcome of reasoning , would resemble philosophy . 
One declines , descends , trickles away , even crumbles away , and yet is hardly conscious of it one's self . 
It always ends , it is true , in an awakening , but the awakening is tardy . 
In the meantime , it seems as though we held ourselves neutral in the game which is going on between our happiness and our unhappiness . 
We are the stake , and we look on at the game with indifference . 
It is thus that , athwart the cloud which formed about him , when all his hopes were extinguished one after the other , M. Mabeuf remained rather puerilely , but profoundly serene . 
His habits of mind had the regular swing of a pendulum . 
Once mounted on an illusion , he went for a very long time , even after the illusion had disappeared . 
A clock does not stop short at the precise moment when the key is lost . 
M. Mabeuf had his innocent pleasures . 
These pleasures were inexpensive and unexpected the merest chance furnished them . 
One day , Mother Plutarque was reading a romance in one corner of the room . 
She was reading aloud , finding that she understood better thus . 
To read aloud is to assure one's self of what one is reading . 
There are people who read very loud , and who have the appearance of giving themselves their word of honor as to what they are perusing . 
It was with this sort of energy that Mother Plutarque was reading the romance which she had in hand . 
M. Mabeuf heard her without listening to her . 
In the course of her reading , Mother Plutarque came to this phrase . 
It was a question of an officer of dragoons and a beauty The beauty pouted , and the dragoon Here she interrupted herself to wipe her glasses . 
Bouddha and the Dragon , struck in M. Mabeuf in a low voice . 
Yes , it is true that there was a dragon , which , from the depths of its cave , spouted flame through his maw and set the heavens on fire . 
Many stars had already been consumed by this monster , which , besides , had the claws of a tiger . 
Bouddha went into its den and succeeded in converting the dragon . 
That is a good book that you are reading , Mother Plutarque . 
There is no more beautiful legend in existence . 
And M. Mabeuf fell into a delicious revery . 
Marius met Courfeyrac and sought out M. Mabeuf . 
Very rarely , however twice a month at most . 
Marius' pleasure consisted in taking long walks alone on the outer boulevards , or in the Champs de Mars , or in the least frequented alleys of the Luxembourg . 
He often spent half a day in gazing at a market garden , the beds of lettuce , the chickens on the dung heap , the horse turning the water wheel . 
The passers by stared at him in surprise , and some of them thought his attire suspicious and his mien sinister . 
He was only a poor young man dreaming in an objectless way . 
It was during one of his strolls that he had hit upon the Gorbeau house , and , tempted by its isolation and its cheapness , had taken up his abode there . 
He was known there only under the name of M. Marius . 
Some of his father's old generals or old comrades had invited him to go and see them , when they learned about him . 
Marius had not refused their invitations . 
They afforded opportunities of talking about his father . 
Thus he went from time to time , to Comte Pajol , to General Bellavesne , to General Fririon , to the Invalides . 
There was music and dancing there . 
On such evenings , Marius put on his new coat . 
He said sometimes , but without bitterness Men are so made that in a drawing room you may be soiled everywhere except on your shoes . 
In order to insure a good reception there , only one irreproachable thing is asked of you your conscience ? No , your boots . 
All passions except those of the heart are dissipated by revery . 
Marius' political fevers vanished thus . 
The Revolution of assisted in the process , by satisfying and calming him . 
He remained the same , setting aside his fits of wrath . 
He still held the same opinions . 
Only , they had been tempered . 
To speak accurately , he had no longer any opinions , he had sympathies . 
To what party did he belong ? To the party of humanity . 
Out of humanity he chose France out of the Nation he chose the people out of the people he chose the woman . 
It was to that point above all , that his pity was directed . 
Now he preferred an idea to a deed , a poet to a hero , and he admired a book like Job more than an event like Marengo . 
This did not prevent him from multiplying his plans , his combinations , his scaffoldings , his projects for the future . 
In this state of revery , an eye which could have cast a glance into Marius' interior would have been dazzled with the purity of that soul . 
There is will in thought , there is none in dreams . 
Revery , which is utterly spontaneous , takes and keeps , even in the gigantic and the ideal , the form of our spirit . 
Nothing proceeds more directly and more sincerely from the very depth of our soul , than our unpremeditated and boundless aspirations towards the splendors of destiny . 
In these aspirations , much more than in deliberate , rational coordinated ideas , is the real character of a man to be found . 
Our chimeras are the things which the most resemble us . 
Each one of us dreams of the unknown and the impossible in accordance with his nature . 
Towards the middle of this year , the old woman who waited on Marius told him that his neighbors , the wretched Jondrette family , had been turned out of doors . 
Marius , who passed nearly the whole of his days out of the house , hardly knew that he had any neighbors . 
Why are they turned out ? he asked . 
Because they do not pay their rent they owe for two quarters . 
How much is it ? Twenty francs , said the old woman . 
Marius had thirty francs saved up in a drawer . 
Here , he said to the old woman , take these twenty five francs . 
This inspired Aunt Gillenormand with a second idea . 
She had , on the first occasion , hit upon the plan of having Marius spied upon by Theodule now she plotted to have Theodule take Marius' place . 
Take it as a simple erratum , she thought , such as one sees in books . 
For Marius , read Theodule . 
A grandnephew is almost the same as a grandson in default of a lawyer one takes a lancer . 
Who's Theodule ? Your grandnephew . 
Ah ! said the grandfather . 
The students were to deliberate over this . 
It did not take much more than this to swell M. Gillenormand's rage . 
He thought of Marius , who was a student , and who would probably go with the rest , to deliberate , at midday , on the Place du Pantheon . 
As he was indulging in this painful dream , Lieutenant Theodule entered clad in plain clothes as a bourgeois , which was clever of him , and was discreetly introduced by Mademoiselle Gillenormand . 
The lancer had reasoned as follows The old druid has not sunk all his money in a life pension . 
It is well to disguise one's self as a civilian from time to time . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand said aloud to her father Theodule , your grandnephew . 
And in a low voice to the lieutenant Approve of everything . 
Ah ! so it's you that is well , sit down , said the old gentleman . 
That said , he totally forgot the lancer . 
Theodule seated himself , and M. Gillenormand rose . 
And they deliberate to morrow , at midday . 
What are we coming to ? What are we coming to ? It is clear that we are making for the abyss . 
I will bet anything you like , a million against a counter , that there will be no one there but returned convicts and released galley slaves . 
The Republicans and the galley slaves , they form but one nose and one handkerchief . 
Carnot used to say Where would you have me go , traitor ? Fouche replied Wherever you please , imbecile ! That's what the Republicans are like . 
That is true , said Theodule . 
It suffices for them to breathe the air which blows through the street to lose their senses . 
The nineteenth century is poison . 
The first scamp that happens along lets his beard grow like a goat's , thinks himself a real scoundrel , and abandons his old relatives . 
He's a Republican , he's a romantic . 
What does that mean , romantic ? Do me the favor to tell me what it is . 
A year ago , they ran to Hernani . 
Now , I just ask you , Hernani ! antitheses ! abominations which are not even written in French ! And then , they have cannons in the courtyard of the Louvre . 
Such are the rascalities of this age ! You are right , uncle , said Theodule . 
One might make use of their jargon to put new soles on their old shoes . 
And all this awkward batch of brats has political opinions , if you please . 
Political opinions should be strictly forbidden . 
I have seen chaos , I now see a mess . 
Deliberate , my rascals ! Such things will happen so long as they go and read the newspapers under the arcades of the Odeon . 
That costs them a sou , and their good sense , and their intelligence , and their heart and their soul , and their wits . 
They emerge thence , and decamp from their families . 
All newspapers are pests all , even the Drapeau Blanc ! At bottom , Martainville was a Jacobin . 
Ah ! just Heaven ! you may boast of having driven your grandfather to despair , that you may ! That is evident , said Theodule . 
M. Gillenormand continued It is like their Sieyes ! A regicide ending in a senator for that is the way they always end . 
They give themselves a scar with the address of thou as citizens , in order to get themselves called , eventually , Monsieur le Comte . 
Monsieur le Comte as big as my arm , assassins of September . 
One would have pronounced them monkeys from the tiger's court . 
M. Gillenormand paused in a gesture which he had begun , wheeled round , stared Lancer Theodule intently in the eyes , and said to him You are a fool . 
He was at that period of life when the mind of men who think is composed , in nearly equal parts , of depth and ingenuousness . 
A grave situation being given , he had all that is required to be stupid one more turn of the key , and he might be sublime . 
His manners were reserved , cold , polished , not very genial . 
As his mouth was charming , his lips the reddest , and his teeth the whitest in the world , his smile corrected the severity of his face , as a whole . 
At certain moments , that pure brow and that voluptuous smile presented a singular contrast . 
His eyes were small , but his glance was large . 
At the period of his most abject misery , he had observed that young girls turned round when he passed by , and he fled or hid , with death in his soul . 
This mute misunderstanding between him and the pretty passers by had made him shy . 
He chose none of them for the excellent reason that he fled from all of them . 
He lived thus indefinitely , stupidly , as Courfeyrac said . 
Courfeyrac also said to him Do not aspire to be venerable they called each other thou it is the tendency of youthful friendships to slip into this mode of address . 
Let me give you a piece of advice , my dear fellow . 
Don't read so many books , and look a little more at the lasses . 
The jades have some good points about them , O Marius ! By dint of fleeing and blushing , you will become brutalized . 
Nevertheless , there existed in all the immensity of creation , two women whom Marius did not flee , and to whom he paid no attention whatever . 
In truth , he would have been very much amazed if he had been informed that they were women . 
One was the bearded old woman who swept out his chamber , and caused Courfeyrac to say Seeing that his servant woman wears his beard , Marius does not wear his own beard . 
The other was a sort of little girl whom he saw very often , and whom he never looked at . 
If he had worn a decoration , Marius would have said He is an ex officer . 
He had a kindly but unapproachable air , and he never let his glance linger on the eyes of any one . 
A grisette who passed near him one day , said Here's a very tidy widower . 
His hair was very white . 
Only , they were always raised with a sort of displeasing assurance . 
Her dress was both aged and childish , like the dress of the scholars in a convent it consisted of a badly cut gown of black merino . 
They had the air of being father and daughter . 
They , on their side , did not appear even to see him . 
They conversed together with a peaceful and indifferent air . 
The girl chattered incessantly and merrily . 
The old man talked but little , and , at times , he fixed on her eyes overflowing with an ineffable paternity . 
Marius had acquired the mechanical habit of strolling in that walk . 
He invariably found them there . 
Courfeyrac , who was among the last , had observed them several times , but , finding the girl homely , he had speedily and carefully kept out of the way . 
He had fled , discharging at them a sobriquet , like a Parthian dart . 
The students said Ah ! Monsieur Leblanc is on his bench . 
And Marius , like the rest , had found it convenient to call this unknown gentleman Monsieur Leblanc . 
We shall follow their example , and we shall say M. Leblanc , in order to facilitate this tale . 
So Marius saw them nearly every day , at the same hour , during the first year . 
He found the man to his taste , but the girl insipid . 
One day , at last , he returned thither once more it was a serene summer morning , and Marius was in joyous mood , as one is when the weather is fine . 
He went straight to his alley , and when he reached the end of it he perceived , still on the same bench , that well known couple . 
Only , when he approached , it certainly was the same man but it seemed to him that it was no longer the same girl . 
When Marius passed near her , he could not see her eyes , which were constantly lowered . 
He saw only her long chestnut lashes , permeated with shadow and modesty . 
For a moment , Marius thought that she was another daughter of the same man , a sister of the former , no doubt . 
But when the invariable habit of his stroll brought him , for the second time , near the bench , and he had examined her attentively , he recognized her as the same . 
In six months the little girl had become a young maiden that was all . 
Nothing is more frequent than this phenomenon . 
There is a moment when girls blossom out in the twinkling of an eye , and become roses all at once . 
One left them children but yesterday today , one finds them disquieting to the feelings . 
This child had not only grown , she had become idealized . 
As three days in April suffice to cover certain trees with flowers , six months had sufficed to clothe her with beauty . 
That is the result of having pocketed an income a note fell due yesterday . 
The young girl had received her quarterly income . 
She wore a dress of black damask , a cape of the same material , and a bonnet of white crape . 
Her white gloves displayed the delicacy of the hand which toyed with the carved , Chinese ivory handle of a parasol , and her silken shoe outlined the smallness of her foot . 
When one passed near her , her whole toilette exhaled a youthful and penetrating perfume . 
As for the man , he was the same as usual . 
He passed near the bench where the young girl sat , five or six times , but without even turning his eyes in her direction . 
He thought no more about the girl now that she was beautiful than he had when she was homely . 
He passed very near the bench where she sat , because such was his habit . 
What was there in the young girl's glance on this occasion ? Marius could not have told . 
There was nothing and there was everything . 
It was a strange flash . 
She dropped her eyes , and he pursued his way . 
What he had just seen was no longer the ingenuous and simple eye of a child it was a mysterious gulf which had half opened , then abruptly closed again . 
There comes a day when the young girl glances in this manner . 
Woe to him who chances to be there ! That first gaze of a soul which does not , as yet , know itself , is like the dawn in the sky . 
It is the awakening of something radiant and strange . 
It is a sort of undecided tenderness which reveals itself by chance , and which waits . 
It is a snare which the innocent maiden sets unknown to herself , and in which she captures hearts without either wishing or knowing it . 
It is a virgin looking like a woman . 
It is rare that a profound revery does not spring from that glance , where it falls . 
On the way thither , he encountered Courfeyrac , and pretended not to see him . 
Courfeyrac , on his return home , said to his friends I have just met Marius' new hat and new coat , with Marius inside them . 
He was going to pass an examination , no doubt . 
Marius listened to this bourgeois . 
Then he made the circuit of the basin once more . 
At last he directed his course towards his alley , slowly , and as if with regret . 
One would have said that he was both forced to go there and withheld from doing so . 
He did not perceive it himself , and thought that he was doing as he always did . 
On turning into the walk , he saw M. Leblanc and the young girl at the other end , on their bench . 
This march savored of an attack , and certainly of a desire for conquest . 
So I say that he marched on the bench , as I should say Hannibal marched on Rome . 
However , all his movements were purely mechanical , and he had interrupted none of the habitual preoccupations of his mind and labors . 
There was a piercing whistling going on in his ears . 
As he approached the bench , he held fast to the folds in his coat , and fixed his eyes on the young girl . 
It seemed to him that she filled the entire extremity of the alley with a vague blue light . 
In proportion as he drew near , his pace slackened more and more . 
He did not even say to himself that he would not go as far as the end . 
It was only with difficulty that the young girl could have perceived him in the distance and noted his fine appearance in his new clothes . 
Nevertheless , he held himself very erect , in case any one should be looking at him from behind . 
He attained the opposite end , then came back , and this time he approached a little nearer to the bench . 
He even got to within three intervals of trees , but there he felt an indescribable impossibility of proceeding further , and he hesitated . 
He thought he saw the young girl's face bending towards him . 
But he exerted a manly and violent effort , subdued his hesitation , and walked straight ahead . 
At the moment when he passed , under the cannon of the place , he felt his heart beat wildly . 
As on the preceding day , she wore her damask gown and her crape bonnet . 
He heard an ineffable voice , which must have been her voice . 
He felt it , although he made no attempt to see her . 
This time , he was very pale . 
Moreover , all his emotions were disagreeable . 
But he remained standing there , motionless . 
For the first time , also , he was conscious of some irreverence in designating that stranger , even in his secret thoughts , by the sobriquet of M. le Blanc . 
He stood thus for several minutes , with drooping head , tracing figures in the sand , with the cane which he held in his hand . 
Then he turned abruptly in the direction opposite to the bench , to M. Leblanc and his daughter , and went home . 
That day he forgot to dine . 
He did not go to bed until he had brushed his coat and folded it up with great care . 
He went to the Luxembourg again , but he did not proceed further than his bench midway of the alley . 
He did not stir from it , and only went home when the gates of the Luxembourg closed . 
He did not see M. Leblanc and his daughter retire . 
He concluded that they had quitted the garden by the gate on the Rue de l'Ouest . 
Later on , several weeks afterwards , when he came to think it over , he could never recall where he had dined that evening . 
On the following day , which was the third , Ma'am Bougon was thunderstruck . 
Marius went out in his new coat . 
Three days in succession ! she exclaimed . 
She tried to follow him , but Marius walked briskly , and with immense strides it was a hippopotamus undertaking the pursuit of a chamois . 
She lost sight of him in two minutes , and returned breathless , three quarters choked with asthma , and furious . 
If there is any sense , she growled , in putting on one's best clothes every day , and making people run like this ! Marius betook himself to the Luxembourg . 
The young girl was there with M. Leblanc . 
Marius went to the Luxembourg no longer for the sake of strolling there , but to seat himself always in the same spot , and that without knowing why . 
Once arrived there , he did not stir . 
He put on his new coat every morning , for the purpose of not showing himself , and he began all over again on the morrow . 
She was decidedly a marvellous beauty . 
All at once he started . 
An event was taking place at the other extremity of the walk . 
Marius closed his book , then opened it again , then forced himself to read he trembled the aureole was coming straight towards him . 
Ah ! good Heavens ! thought he , I shall not have time to strike an attitude . 
Still the white haired man and the girl advanced . 
It seemed to him that this lasted for a century , and that it was but a second . 
What are they coming in this direction for ? he asked himself . 
He heard the soft and measured sound of their approaching footsteps . 
He imagined that M. Leblanc was darting angry glances at him . 
Is that gentleman going to address me ? he thought to himself . 
He dropped his head when he raised it again , they were very near him . 
The young girl passed , and as she passed , she glanced at him . 
She gazed steadily at him , with a pensive sweetness which thrilled Marius from head to foot . 
Marius was dazzled by those eyes fraught with rays and abysses . 
He felt his brain on fire . 
She had come to him , what joy ! And then , how she had looked at him ! She appeared to him more beautiful than he had ever seen her yet . 
Beautiful with a beauty which was wholly feminine and angelic , with a complete beauty which would have made Petrarch sing and Dante kneel . 
It seemed to him that he was floating free in the azure heavens . 
At the same time , he was horribly vexed because there was dust on his boots . 
He thought he felt sure that she had looked at his boots too . 
He followed her with his eyes until she disappeared . 
Then he started up and walked about the Luxembourg garden like a madman . 
It is possible that , at times , he laughed to himself and talked aloud . 
He was so dreamy when he came near the children's nurses , that each one of them thought him in love with her . 
He quitted the Luxembourg , hoping to find her again in the street . 
He encountered Courfeyrac under the arcades of the Odeon , and said to him Come and dine with me . 
They went off to Rousseau's and spent six francs . 
Marius ate like an ogre . 
He gave the waiter six sous . 
At dessert , he said to Courfeyrac . 
Have you read the paper ? What a fine discourse Audry de Puyraveau delivered ! He was desperately in love . 
After dinner , he said to Courfeyrac I will treat you to the play . 
They went to the Porte Sainte Martin to see Frederick in l'Auberge des Adrets . 
At the same time , he had a redoubled attack of shyness . 
Courfeyrac invited him to breakfast at the Cafe Voltaire on the following morning . 
Marius went thither , and ate even more than on the preceding evening . 
He was very thoughtful and very merry . 
One would have said that he was taking advantage of every occasion to laugh uproariously . 
He tenderly embraced some man or other from the provinces , who was presented to him . 
Marius interrupted the discussion to exclaim But it is very agreeable , all the same to have the cross ! That's queer ! whispered Courfeyrac to Jean Prouvaire . 
No , responded Prouvaire , that's serious . 
It was serious in fact , Marius had reached that first violent and charming hour with which grand passions begin . 
A glance had wrought all this . 
When the mine is charged , when the conflagration is ready , nothing is more simple . 
A glance is a spark . 
It was all over with him . 
His fate was entering the unknown . 
The glance of women resembles certain combinations of wheels , which are tranquil in appearance yet formidable . 
You pass close to them every day , peaceably and with impunity , and without a suspicion of anything . 
A moment arrives when you forget that the thing is there . 
You go and come , dream , speak , laugh . 
All at once you feel yourself clutched all is over . 
The wheels hold you fast , the glance has ensnared you . 
It has caught you , no matter where or how , by some portion of your thought which was fluttering loose , by some distraction which had attacked you . 
The whole of you passes into it . 
A chain of mysterious forces takes possession of you . 
You struggle in vain no more human succor is possible . 
His worship of his father had gradually become a religion , and , like all religions , it had retreated to the depths of his soul . 
Something was required in the foreground . 
A full month elapsed , during which Marius went every day to the Luxembourg . 
When the hour arrived , nothing could hold him back . 
He is on duty , said Courfeyrac . 
Marius lived in a state of delight . 
It is certain that the young girl did look at him . 
He had finally grown bold , and approached the bench . 
Still , he did not pass in front of it any more , in obedience to the instinct of timidity and to the instinct of prudence common to lovers . 
He considered it better not to attract the attention of the father . 
While conversing in the most natural and tranquil manner in the world with the white haired man , she bent upon Marius all the reveries of a virginal and passionate eye . 
It must be supposed , that M. Leblanc finally noticed something , for often , when Marius arrived , he rose and began to walk about . 
Marius did not understand , and committed this error . 
The father began to grow inexact , and no longer brought his daughter every day . 
Sometimes , he came alone . 
Then Marius did not stay . 
Marius paid no heed to these symptoms . 
From the phase of timidity , he had passed , by a natural and fatal progress , to the phase of blindness . 
He dreamed of it every night . 
And then , an unexpected bliss had happened to him , oil on the fire , a redoubling of the shadows over his eyes . 
He seized it with rapture . 
U was evidently the Christian name . 
I feel that her whole soul lies within it ! he exclaimed . 
This handkerchief belonged to the old gentleman , who had simply let it fall from his pocket . 
In the days which followed the finding of this treasure , he only displayed himself at the Luxembourg in the act of kissing the handkerchief and laying it on his heart . 
The beautiful child understood nothing of all this , and signified it to him by imperceptible signs . 
O modesty ! said Marius . 
It was on one of the days when she persuaded M. Leblanc to leave the bench and stroll along the walk . 
A brisk May breeze was blowing , which swayed the crests of the plaintain trees . 
The father and daughter , arm in arm , had just passed Marius' bench . 
Marius had risen to his feet behind them , and was following them with his eyes , as was fitting in the desperate situation of his soul . 
A leg of exquisite shape appeared . 
He was exasperated and furious . 
The young girl had hastily thrust down her dress , with a divinely troubled motion , but he was none the less angry for all that . 
He was alone in the alley , it is true . 
But there might have been some one there . 
It is thus , in fact , that the harsh and capricious jealousy of the flesh awakens in the human heart , and takes possession of it , even without any right . 
Marius had hardly made this scene at her with his eyes , when some one crossed the walk . 
It was a veteran , very much bent , extremely wrinkled , and pale , in a uniform of the Louis XV . 
Marius thought he perceived that this man had an extremely well satisfied air . 
What did that relic of Mars mean by being so contented ? What had passed between that wooden leg and the other ? Marius reached a paroxysm of jealousy . 
Perhaps he was there ! he said to himself perhaps he saw ! And he felt a desire to exterminate the veteran . 
With the aid of time , all points grow dull . 
Marius' wrath against Ursule , just and legitimate as it was , passed off . 
He finally pardoned her but this cost him a great effort he sulked for three days . 
Nevertheless , in spite of all this , and because of all this , his passion augmented and grew to madness . 
CHAPTER IX ECLIPSE The reader has just seen how Marius discovered , or thought that he discovered , that She was named Ursule . 
To know that her name was Ursule was a great deal it was very little . 
In three or four weeks , Marius had devoured this bliss . 
He wanted to know where she lived . 
He had committed his first blunder , by falling into the ambush of the bench by the Gladiator . 
He had committed a second , by not remaining at the Luxembourg when M. Leblanc came thither alone . 
He now committed a third , and an immense one . 
She lived in the Rue de l'Ouest , in the most unfrequented spot , in a new , three story house , of modest appearance . 
From that moment forth , Marius added to his happiness of seeing her at the Luxembourg the happiness of following her home . 
He knew her first name , at least , a charming name , a genuine woman's name he knew where she lived he wanted to know who she was . 
He is the gentleman on the third floor . 
On the front ? he asked . 
Parbleu ! said the porter , the house is only built on the street . 
And what is that gentleman's business ? began Marius again . 
He is a gentleman of property , sir . 
A very kind man who does good to the unfortunate , though not rich himself . 
What is his name ? resumed Marius . 
The porter raised his head and said Are you a police spy , sir ? Marius went off quite abashed , but delighted . 
On the following day , M. Leblanc and his daughter made only a very brief stay in the Luxembourg they went away while it was still broad daylight . 
Marius followed them to the Rue de l'Ouest , as he had taken up the habit of doing . 
On arriving at the carriage entrance M. Leblanc made his daughter pass in first , then paused , before crossing the threshold , and stared intently at Marius . 
On the next day they did not come to the Luxembourg . 
Marius waited for them all day in vain . 
At nightfall , he went to the Rue de l'Ouest , and saw a light in the windows of the third story . 
He walked about beneath the windows until the light was extinguished . 
The next day , no one at the Luxembourg . 
Marius waited all day , then went and did sentinel duty under their windows . 
This carried him on to ten o'clock in the evening . 
His dinner took care of itself . 
Fever nourishes the sick man , and love the lover . 
He spent a week in this manner . 
M. Leblanc no longer appeared at the Luxembourg . 
Marius indulged in melancholy conjectures he dared not watch the porte cochere during the day he contented himself with going at night to gaze upon the red light of the windows . 
At times he saw shadows flit across them , and his heart began to beat . 
On the eighth day , when he arrived under the windows , there was no light in them . 
Hello ! he said , the lamp is not lighted yet . 
Can they have gone out ? He waited until ten o'clock . 
Until one in the morning . 
Not a light appeared in the windows of the third story , and no one entered the house . 
He went away in a very gloomy frame of mind . 
At dusk , he went to the house . 
No light in the windows the shades were drawn the third floor was totally dark . 
Marius rapped at the porte cochere , entered , and said to the porter The gentleman on the third floor ? Has moved away , replied the porter . 
Marius reeled and said feebly How long ago ? Yesterday . 
Where is he living now ? I don't know anything about it . 
So he has not left his new address ? No. And the porter , raising his eyes , recognized Marius . 
Come ! So it's you ! said he but you are decidedly a spy then ? BOOK SEVENTH . 
PATRON MINETTE CHAPTER I MINES AND MINERS Human societies all have what is called in theatrical parlance , a third lower floor . 
The social soil is everywhere undermined , sometimes for good , sometimes for evil . 
These works are superposed one upon the other . 
There are superior mines and inferior mines . 
There is a top and a bottom in this obscure sub soil , which sometimes gives way beneath civilization , and which our indifference and heedlessness trample under foot . 
The Encyclopedia , in the last century , was a mine that was almost open to the sky . 
The shades , those sombre hatchers of primitive Christianity , only awaited an opportunity to bring about an explosion under the Caesars and to inundate the human race with light . 
For in the sacred shadows there lies latent light . 
Volcanoes are full of a shadow that is capable of flashing forth . 
Every form begins by being night . 
The catacombs , in which the first mass was said , were not alone the cellar of Rome , they were the vaults of the world . 
Beneath the social construction , that complicated marvel of a structure , there are excavations of all sorts . 
There is the religious mine , the philosophical mine , the economic mine , the revolutionary mine . 
Such and such a pick axe with the idea , such a pick with ciphers . 
People hail and answer each other from one catacomb to another . 
Utopias travel about underground , in the pipes . 
There they branch out in every direction . 
They sometimes meet , and fraternize there . 
Jean Jacques lends his pick to Diogenes , who lends him his lantern . 
Sometimes they enter into combat there . 
Calvin seizes Socinius by the hair . 
Society hardly even suspects this digging which leaves its surface intact and changes its bowels . 
There are as many different subterranean stages as there are varying works , as there are extractions . 
What emerges from these deep excavations ? The future . 
The deeper one goes , the more mysterious are the toilers . 
The work is good , up to a degree which the social philosophies are able to recognize beyond that degree it is doubtful and mixed lower down , it becomes terrible . 
At a certain depth , the excavations are no longer penetrable by the spirit of civilization , the limit breathable by man has been passed a beginning of monsters is possible . 
And so it goes on . 
Lower down , confusedly , at the limit which separates the indistinct from the invisible , one perceives other gloomy men , who perhaps do not exist as yet . 
The men of yesterday are spectres those of to morrow are forms . 
The eye of the spirit distinguishes them but obscurely . 
The embryonic work of the future is one of the visions of philosophy . 
A world in limbo , in the state of foetus , what an unheard of spectre ! Saint Simon , Owen , Fourier , are there also , in lateral galleries . 
The first are paradisiacal , the last are tragic . 
Marat forgets himself like Jesus . 
They throw themselves on one side , they omit themselves , they think not of themselves . 
They have a glance , and that glance seeks the absolute . 
The first has the whole heavens in his eyes the last , enigmatical though he may be , has still , beneath his eyelids , the pale beam of the infinite . 
Venerate the man , whoever he may be , who has this sign the starry eye . 
The shadowy eye is the other sign . 
With it , evil commences . 
Reflect and tremble in the presence of any one who has no glance at all . 
The social order has its black miners . 
There is a point where depth is tantamount to burial , and where light becomes extinct . 
This is what we have designated as the le troisieme dessous . 
It is the grave of shadows . 
It is the cellar of the blind . 
This communicates with the abyss . 
CHAPTER II THE LOWEST DEPTHS There disinterestedness vanishes . 
The demon is vaguely outlined each one is for himself . 
The I in the eyes howls , seeks , fumbles , and gnaws . 
The social Ugolino is in this gulf . 
They are almost unconscious , and there exists within them a sort of terrible obliteration . 
They have two mothers , both step mothers , ignorance and misery . 
They have a guide , necessity and for all forms of satisfaction , appetite . 
They are brutally voracious , that is to say , ferocious , not after the fashion of the tyrant , but after the fashion of the tiger . 
From suffering these spectres pass to crime fatal affiliation , dizzy creation , logic of darkness . 
That which crawls in the social third lower level is no longer complaint stifled by the absolute it is the protest of matter . 
Man there becomes a dragon . 
To be hungry , to be thirsty that is the point of departure to be Satan that is the point reached . 
From that vault Lacenaire emerges . 
We have just seen , in Book Fourth , one of the compartments of the upper mine , of the great political , revolutionary , and philosophical excavation . 
There , as we have just said , all is pure , noble , dignified , honest . 
There , assuredly , one might be misled but error is worthy of veneration there , so thoroughly does it imply heroism . 
The work there effected , taken as a whole has a name Progress . 
The moment has now come when we must take a look at other depths , hideous depths . 
There exists beneath society , we insist upon this point , and there will exist , until that day when ignorance shall be dissipated , the great cavern of evil . 
This cavern is below all , and is the foe of all . 
It is hatred , without exception . 
This cavern knows no philosophers its dagger has never cut a pen . 
Its blackness has no connection with the sublime blackness of the inkstand . 
Never have the fingers of night which contract beneath this stifling ceiling , turned the leaves of a book nor unfolded a newspaper . 
Babeuf is a speculator to Cartouche Marat is an aristocrat to Schinderhannes . 
This cavern has for its object the destruction of everything . 
Including the upper superior mines , which it execrates . 
Its name is simply theft , prostitution , murder , assassination . 
It is darkness , and it desires chaos . 
Its vault is formed of ignorance . 
All the others , those above it , have but one object to suppress it . 
It is to this point that philosophy and progress tend , with all their organs simultaneously , by their amelioration of the real , as well as by their contemplation of the absolute . 
Destroy the cavern Ignorance and you destroy the lair Crime . 
Let us condense , in a few words , a part of what we have just written . 
The only social peril is darkness . 
All men are made of the same clay . 
There is no difference , here below , at least , in predestination . 
The same shadow in front , the same flesh in the present , the same ashes afterwards . 
But ignorance , mingled with the human paste , blackens it . 
This incurable blackness takes possession of the interior of a man and is there converted into evil . 
CHAPTER III BABET , GUEULEMER , CLAQUESOUS , AND MONTPARNASSE A quartette of ruffians , Claquesous , Gueulemer , Babet , and Montparnasse governed the third lower floor of Paris , from to . 
Gueulemer was a Hercules of no defined position . 
For his lair he had the sewer of the Arche Marion . 
One thought one beheld the Farnese Hercules clad in duck trousers and a cotton velvet waistcoat . 
Gueulemer , built after this sculptural fashion , might have subdued monsters he had found it more expeditious to be one . 
His muscles called for work , his stupidity would have none of it . 
He was a great , idle force . 
He was an assassin through coolness . 
He was thought to be a creole . 
He had , probably , somewhat to do with Marshal Brune , having been a porter at Avignon in . 
After this stage , he had turned ruffian . 
The diaphaneity of Babet contrasted with the grossness of Gueulemer . 
Babet was thin and learned . 
He was transparent but impenetrable . 
Daylight was visible through his bones , but nothing through his eyes . 
He declared that he was a chemist . 
He had been a jack of all trades . 
He had played in vaudeville at Saint Mihiel . 
He was a man of purpose , a fine talker , who underlined his smiles and accentuated his gestures . 
His occupation consisted in selling , in the open air , plaster busts and portraits of the head of the State . 
In addition to this , he extracted teeth . 
Price one tooth , one franc , fifty centimes two teeth , two francs three teeth , two francs , fifty . 
Take advantage of this opportunity . 
This Take advantage of this opportunity meant Have as many teeth extracted as possible . 
He had been married and had had children . 
He did not know what had become of his wife and children . 
He had lost them as one loses his handkerchief . 
Babet read the papers , a striking exception in the world to which he belonged . 
Who was Claquesous ? He was night . 
He waited until the sky was daubed with black , before he showed himself . 
At nightfall he emerged from the hole whither he returned before daylight . 
Where was this hole ? No one knew . 
He only addressed his accomplices in the most absolute darkness , and with his back turned to them . 
Was his name Claquesous ? Certainly not . 
If a candle was brought , he put on a mask . 
Babet said Claquesous is a nocturne for two voices . 
Claquesous was vague , terrible , and a roamer . 
He disappeared as though he had vanished into thin air when he appeared , it was as though he sprang from the earth . 
A lugubrious being was Montparnasse . 
The digestion of evil aroused in him an appetite for worse . 
It was the street boy turned pickpocket , and a pickpocket turned garroter . 
He was genteel , effeminate , graceful , robust , sluggish , ferocious . 
The rim of his hat was curled up on the left side , in order to make room for a tuft of hair , after the style of . 
He lived by robbery with violence . 
His coat was of the best cut , but threadbare . 
Montparnasse was a fashion plate in misery and given to the commission of murders . 
The cause of all this youth's crimes was the desire to be well dressed . 
The first grisette who had said to him You are handsome ! had cast the stain of darkness into his heart , and had made a Cain of this Abel . 
Finding that he was handsome , he desired to be elegant now , the height of elegance is idleness idleness in a poor man means crime . 
Few prowlers were so dreaded as Montparnasse . 
At eighteen , he had already numerous corpses in his past . 
More than one passer by lay with outstretched arms in the presence of this wretch , with his face in a pool of blood . 
The inventors of ideas of that nature , men with nocturnal imaginations , applied to them to have their ideas executed . 
They furnished the canvas to the four rascals , and the latter undertook the preparation of the scenery . 
They labored at the stage setting . 
They were always in a condition to lend a force proportioned and suitable to all crimes which demanded a lift of the shoulder , and which were sufficiently lucrative . 
When a crime was in quest of arms , they under let their accomplices . 
They kept a troupe of actors of the shadows at the disposition of all underground tragedies . 
They were in the habit of assembling at nightfall , the hour when they woke up , on the plains which adjoin the Salpetriere . 
There they held their conferences . 
They had twelve black hours before them they regulated their employment accordingly . 
Patron Minette , such was the name which was bestowed in the subterranean circulation on the association of these four men . 
This appellation , Patron Minette , was probably derived from the hour at which their work ended , the dawn being the vanishing moment for phantoms and for the separation of ruffians . 
These four men were known under this title . 
When the President of the Assizes visited Lacenaire in his prison , and questioned him concerning a misdeed which Lacenaire denied , Who did it ? demanded the President . 
Lacenaire made this response , enigmatical so far as the magistrate was concerned , but clear to the police Perhaps it was Patron Minette . 
A piece can sometimes be divined on the enunciation of the personages in the same manner a band can almost be judged from the list of ruffians composing it . 
Here are the appellations to which the principal members of Patron Minette answered , for the names have survived in special memoirs . 
Panchaud , alias Printanier , alias Bigrenaille . 
There was a Brujon dynasty we cannot refrain from interpolating this word . 
Boulatruelle , the road mender already introduced . 
Homere Hogu , a negro . 
Glorieux , a discharged convict . 
Barrecarrosse , called Monsieur Dupont . 
Demi Liard , called Deux Milliards . 
We pass over some , and not the worst of them . 
These names have faces attached . 
They do not express merely beings , but species . 
Each one of these names corresponds to a variety of those misshapen fungi from the under side of civilization . 
Those beings , who were not very lavish with their countenances , were not among the men whom one sees passing along the streets . 
What became of these men ? They still exist . 
Horace speaks of them Ambubaiarum collegia , pharmacopolae , mendici , mimae and so long as society remains what it is , they will remain what they are . 
Beneath the obscure roof of their cavern , they are continually born again from the social ooze . 
They return , spectres , but always identical only , they no longer bear the same names and they are no longer in the same skins . 
The individuals extirpated , the tribe subsists . 
They always have the same faculties . 
From the vagrant to the tramp , the race is maintained in its purity . 
They divine purses in pockets , they scent out watches in fobs . 
Gold and silver possess an odor for them . 
There exist ingenuous bourgeois , of whom it might be said , that they have a stealable air . 
These men patiently pursue these bourgeois . 
They experience the quivers of a spider at the passage of a stranger or of a man from the country . 
These men are terrible , when one encounters them , or catches a glimpse of them , towards midnight , on a deserted boulevard . 
What is necessary to cause these spectres to vanish ? Light . 
Not a single bat can resist the dawn . 
Light up society from below . 
THE WICKED POOR MAN CHAPTER I MARIUS , WHILE SEEKING A GIRL IN A BONNET , ENCOUNTERS A MAN IN A CAP Summer passed , then the autumn winter came . 
Neither M. Leblanc nor the young girl had again set foot in the Luxembourg garden . 
Thenceforth , Marius had but one thought , to gaze once more on that sweet and adorable face . 
He sought constantly , he sought everywhere he found nothing . 
He fell into a black melancholy . 
Work disgusted him , walking tired him . 
Vast nature , formerly so filled with forms , lights , voices , counsels , perspectives , horizons , teachings , now lay empty before him . 
It seemed to him that everything had disappeared . 
He thought incessantly , for he could not do otherwise but he no longer took pleasure in his thoughts . 
To everything that they proposed to him in a whisper , he replied in his darkness What is the use ? He heaped a hundred reproaches on himself . 
Why did I follow her ? I was so happy at the mere sight of her ! She looked at me was not that immense ? She had the air of loving me . 
Was not that everything ? I wished to have , what ? There was nothing after that . 
It is my own fault , etc . 
Here , come to the Chaumiere . 
Of course he did not see the one he sought . 
But this is the place , all the same , where all lost women are found , grumbled Grantaire in an aside . 
On another occasion , he had an encounter which produced on him a singular effect . 
Marius was struck with the beauty of this white hair , and scrutinized the man , who was walking slowly and as though absorbed in painful meditation . 
Strange to say , he thought that he recognized M. Leblanc . 
The hair was the same , also the profile , so far as the cap permitted a view of it , the mien identical , only more depressed . 
But why these workingman's clothes ? What was the meaning of this ? What signified that disguise ? Marius was greatly astonished . 
But the idea occurred to him too late , the man was no longer there . 
He had turned into some little side street , and Marius could not find him . 
This encounter occupied his mind for three days and then was effaced . 
After all , he said to himself , it was probably only a resemblance . 
CHAPTER II TREASURE TROVE Marius had not left the Gorbeau house . 
He paid no attention to any one there . 
The other lodgers had moved away or had died , or had been turned out in default of payment . 
Whether the sun shines brightly or dim , the bear returns to his cave . 
Marius had just emerged from his night was falling . 
He was walking along with drooping head . 
Through the twilight , Marius could distinguish their livid faces , their wild heads , their dishevelled hair , their hideous bonnets , their ragged petticoats , and their bare feet . 
They were talking as they ran . 
The taller said in a very low voice The bobbies have come . 
They came near nabbing me at the half circle . 
The other answered I saw them . 
I bolted , bolted , bolted ! Through this repulsive slang , Marius understood that gendarmes or the police had come near apprehending these two children , and that the latter had escaped . 
They plunged among the trees of the boulevard behind him , and there created , for a few minutes , in the gloom , a sort of vague white spot , then disappeared . 
Marius had halted for a moment . 
He was about to pursue his way , when his eye lighted on a little grayish package lying on the ground at his feet . 
He stooped and picked it up . 
It was a sort of envelope which appeared to contain papers . 
Good , he said to himself , those unhappy girls dropped it . 
On the way , he saw in an alley of the Rue Mouffetard , a child's coffin , covered with a black cloth resting on three chairs , and illuminated by a candle . 
The two girls of the twilight recurred to his mind . 
Poor mothers ! he thought . 
There is one thing sadder than to see one's children die it is to see them leading an evil life . 
Then those shadows which had varied his melancholy vanished from his thoughts , and he fell back once more into his habitual preoccupations . 
He fell to thinking once more of his six months of love and happiness in the open air and the broad daylight , beneath the beautiful trees of Luxembourg . 
How gloomy my life has become ! he said to himself . 
Young girls are always appearing to me , only formerly they were angels and now they are ghouls . 
It was not sealed and contained four letters , also unsealed . 
All four exhaled a horrible odor of tobacco . 
It was conceived as follows Madame la Marquise The virtue of clemency and piety is that which most closely unites sosiety . 
Their prayer will not be in vain , and their gratitude will preserve theirs charming souvenir . 
No address was joined to the signature . 
Marius hoped to find the address in the second letter , whose superscription read A Madame , Madame la Comtesse de Montvernet , Rue Cassette , No. . 
This is what Marius read in it Madame la Comtesse It is an unhappy mother of a family of six children the last of which is only eight months old . 
I sick since my last confinement , abandoned by my husband five months ago , haveing no resources in the world the most frightful indigance . 
In the hope of Madame la Comtesse , she has the honor to be , Madame , with profound respect , Mistress Balizard . 
There are couplets to be sung in four places . 
If you deign to honor me with the most modest offering , I shall immediately occupy myself in making a piesse of verse to pay you my tribute of gratitude . 
Which I shall endeavor to render this piesse as perfect as possible , will be sent to you before it is inserted at the beginning of the drama and delivered on the stage . 
To Monsieur and Madame Pabourgeot , My most respectful complements , Genflot , man of letters . 
P. S. Even if it is only forty sous . 
Excuse me for sending my daughter and not presenting myself , but sad motives connected with the toilet do not permit me , alas ! to go out . 
Finally , Marius opened the fourth letter . 
The address ran To the benevolent Gentleman of the church of Saint Jacquesdu haut Pas . 
It contained the following lines Benevolent Man If you deign to accompany my daughter , you will behold a misserable calamity , and I will show you my certificates . 
At the aspect of these writings your generous soul will be moved with a sentiment of obvious benevolence , for true philosophers always feel lively emotions . 
Destinies are very fatal for several and too prodigal or too protecting for others . 
After perusing these four letters , Marius did not find himself much further advanced than before . 
In the first place , not one of the signers gave his address . 
It was waste of trouble to try to solve this petty mystery . 
Had it not been a chance find , it would have borne the air of a mystification . 
Marius was too melancholy to take even a chance pleasantry well , and to lend himself to a game which the pavement of the street seemed desirous of playing with him . 
It seemed to him that he was playing the part of the blind man in blind man's buff between the four letters , and that they were making sport of him . 
Nothing , however , indicated that these letters belonged to the two young girls whom Marius had met on the boulevard . 
After all , they were evidently papers of no value . 
Marius replaced them in their envelope , flung the whole into a corner and went to bed . 
About seven o'clock in the morning , he had just risen and breakfasted , and was trying to settle down to work , when there came a soft knock at his door . 
As he owned nothing , he never locked his door , unless occasionally , though very rarely , when he was engaged in some pressing work . 
Even when absent he left his key in the lock . 
You will be robbed , said Ma'am Bougon . 
Of what ? said Marius . 
The truth is , however , that he had , one day , been robbed of an old pair of boots , to the great triumph of Ma'am Bougon . 
There came a second knock , as gentle as the first . 
Come in , said Marius . 
What do you want , Ma'am Bougon ? asked Marius , without raising his eyes from the books and manuscripts on his table . 
Marius turned round hastily , and beheld a young girl . 
CHAPTER IV A ROSE IN MISERY A very young girl was standing in the half open door . 
The dormer window of the garret , through which the light fell , was precisely opposite the door , and illuminated the figure with a wan light . 
She was a frail , emaciated , slender creature there was nothing but a chemise and a petticoat upon that chilled and shivering nakedness . 
Marius had risen , and was staring in a sort of stupor at this being , who was almost like the forms of the shadows which traverse dreams . 
The most heart breaking thing of all was , that this young girl had not come into the world to be homely . 
In her early childhood she must even have been pretty . 
The grace of her age was still struggling against the hideous , premature decrepitude of debauchery and poverty . 
The remains of beauty were dying away in that face of sixteen , like the pale sunlight which is extinguished under hideous clouds at dawn on a winter's day . 
That face was not wholly unknown to Marius . 
He thought he remembered having seen it somewhere . 
What do you wish , Mademoiselle ? he asked . 
The young girl replied in her voice of a drunken convict Here is a letter for you , Monsieur Marius . 
She entered resolutely , staring , with a sort of assurance that made the heart bleed , at the whole room and the unmade bed . 
Large holes in her petticoat permitted glimpses of her long legs and her thin knees . 
She held a letter in her hand , which she presented to Marius . 
Marius , as he opened the letter , noticed that the enormous wafer which sealed it was still moist . 
The message could not have come from a distance . 
He read My amiable neighbor , young man I have learned of your goodness to me , that you paid my rent six months ago . 
I bless you , young man . 
My eldest daughter will tell you that we have been without a morsel of bread for two days , four persons and my spouse ill . 
I am with the distinguished consideration which is due to the benefactors of humanity , Jondrette . 
P. S. My eldest daughter will await your orders , dear Monsieur Marius . 
This letter , coming in the very midst of the mysterious adventure which had occupied Marius' thoughts ever since the preceding evening , was like a candle in a cellar . 
This letter came from the same place as the other four . 
There was the same writing , the same style , the same orthography , the same paper , the same odor of tobacco . 
There were five missives , five histories , five signatures , and a single signer . 
His mind was elsewhere , and where the mind is , there the eyes are also . 
Now he saw everything clearly . 
Nevertheless , while Marius bent a pained and astonished gaze on her , the young girl was wandering back and forth in the garret with the audacity of a spectre . 
She kicked about , without troubling herself as to her nakedness . 
Occasionally her chemise , which was untied and torn , fell almost to her waist . 
She moved the chairs about , she disarranged the toilet articles which stood on the commode , she handled Marius' clothes , she rummaged about to see what there was in the corners . 
An indescribable constraint , weariness , and humiliation were perceptible beneath this hardihood . 
One felt that under other conditions of education and destiny , the gay and over free mien of this young girl might have turned out sweet and charming . 
Never , even among animals , does the creature born to be a dove change into an osprey . 
That is only to be seen among men . 
Marius reflected , and allowed her to have her way . 
Ah ! said she , books ! A flash pierced her glassy eye . 
Ah ! Waterloo ! I know about that . 
It was a battle long ago . 
My father has served in the armies . 
We are fine Bonapartists in our house , that we are ! Waterloo was against the English . 
And before he had time to answer , she wrote on a sheet of white paper , which lay in the middle of the table The bobbies are here . 
Then throwing down the pen There are no faults of orthography . 
We have received an education , my sister and I. We have not always been as we are now . 
I am hungry , father . 
J'ai froid , ma mere . 
I am cold , mother . 
I have a little brother who is a friend of the artists , and who gives me tickets sometimes . 
But I don't like the benches in the galleries . 
One is cramped and uncomfortable there . 
There are rough people there sometimes and people who smell bad . 
She stepped up to him , and laid her hand on his shoulder You pay no heed to me , but I know you , Mr. Marius . 
It is very becoming to you to have your hair tumbled thus . 
She tried to render her voice soft , but only succeeded in making it very deep . 
A portion of her words was lost in the transit from her larynx to her lips , as though on a piano where some notes are missing . 
Mademoiselle , said he , with his cool gravity , I have here a package which belongs to you , I think . 
Permit me to return it to you . 
And he held out the envelope containing the four letters . 
It was that brat of a sister of mine who was so stupid . 
When we got home , we could not find it anywhere . 
So here they are , those poor letters ! And how did you find out that they belonged to me ? Ah ! yes , the writing . 
So it was you that we jostled as we passed last night . 
I said to my sister Is it a gentleman ? My sister said to me I think it is a gentleman . 
In the meanwhile she had unfolded the petition addressed to the benevolent gentleman of the church of Saint Jacquesdu Haut Pas . 
Here ! said she , this is for that old fellow who goes to mass . 
By the way , this is his hour . 
I'll go and carry it to him . 
Perhaps he will give us something to breakfast on . 
Come ! Parbleu ! if you are not satisfied , dogs , burst ! This reminded Marius of the wretched girl's errand to himself . 
He fumbled in his waistcoat pocket , and found nothing there . 
The young girl went on , and seemed to have no consciousness of Marius' presence . 
I often go off in the evening . 
Sometimes I don't come home again . 
Last winter , before we came here , we lived under the arches of the bridges . 
We huddled together to keep from freezing . 
How melancholy the water is ! When I thought of drowning myself , I said to myself No , it's too cold . 
I go out alone , whenever I choose , I sometimes sleep in the ditches . 
I think people are flinging stones at me , I flee without knowing whither , everything whirls and whirls . 
You feel very queer when you have had no food . 
And then she stared at him with a bewildered air . 
By dint of searching and ransacking his pockets , Marius had finally collected five francs sixteen sous . 
This was all he owned in the world for the moment . 
At all events , he thought , there is my dinner for to day , and to morrow we will see . 
He kept the sixteen sous , and handed the five francs to the young girl . 
I'll go and find my old man . 
CHAPTER V A PROVIDENTIAL PEEP HOLE Marius had lived for five years in poverty , in destitution , even in distress , but he now perceived that he had not known real misery . 
True misery he had but just had a view of . 
It was its spectre which had just passed before his eyes . 
When a man has reached his last extremity , he has reached his last resources at the same time . 
Woe to the defenceless beings who surround him ! Work , wages , bread , fire , courage , good will , all fail him simultaneously . 
The light of day seems extinguished without , the moral light within in these shadows man encounters the feebleness of the woman and the child , and bends them violently to ignominy . 
Then all horrors become possible . 
Despair is surrounded with fragile partitions which all open on either vice or crime . 
They crouch , back to back , in a sort of hut of fate . 
They exchange woe begone glances . 
Oh , the unfortunate wretches ! How pale they are ! How cold they are ! It seems as though they dwelt in a planet much further from the sun than ours . 
This young girl was to Marius a sort of messenger from the realm of sad shadows . 
She revealed to him a hideous side of the night . 
Marius almost reproached himself for the preoccupations of revery and passion which had prevented his bestowing a glance on his neighbors up to that day . 
The payment of their rent had been a mechanical movement , which any one would have yielded to but he , Marius , should have done better than that . 
Only a man as dreamy as Marius could have failed to perceive this long before . 
There was no paper pasted on the wall , either on the side of the Jondrettes or on that of Marius the coarse construction was visible in its nakedness . 
Marius examined the partition , almost unconsciously sometimes revery examines , observes , and scrutinizes as thought would . 
All at once he sprang up he had just perceived , near the top , close to the ceiling , a triangular hole , which resulted from the space between three lathes . 
The plaster which should have filled this cavity was missing , and by mounting on the commode , a view could be had through this aperture into the Jondrettes' attic . 
Commiseration has , and should have , its curiosity . 
This aperture formed a sort of peep hole . 
It is permissible to gaze at misfortune like a traitor in order to succor it . 
The peep hole is a Judas in French . 
Hence the half punning allusion . 
Let us get some little idea of what these people are like , thought Marius , and in what condition they are . 
He climbed upon the commode , put his eye to the crevice , and looked . 
CHAPTER VI THE WILD MAN IN HIS LAIR Cities , like forests , have their caverns in which all the most wicked and formidable creatures which they contain conceal themselves . 
Taking one lair with another , the beast's is preferable to the man's . 
Caverns are better than hovels . 
What Marius now beheld was a hovel . 
Marius was poor , and his chamber was poverty stricken , but as his poverty was noble , his garret was neat . 
The den upon which his eye now rested was abject , dirty , fetid , pestiferous , mean , sordid . 
Through this aperture there penetrated just enough light to make the face of a man appear like the face of a phantom . 
The walls had a leprous aspect , and were covered with seams and scars , like a visage disfigured by some horrible malady a repulsive moisture exuded from them . 
Obscene sketches roughly sketched with charcoal could be distinguished upon them . 
Two brands were smouldering there in a melancholy way . 
One thing which added still more to the horrors of this garret was , that it was large . 
It had projections and angles and black holes , the lower sides of roofs , bays , and promontories . 
One of the pallets was near the door , the other near the window . 
One end of each touched the fireplace and faced Marius . 
This man had a long gray beard . 
He was clad in a woman's chemise , which allowed his hairy breast and his bare arms , bristling with gray hair , to be seen . 
Beneath this chemise , muddy trousers and boots through which his toes projected were visible . 
He had a pipe in his mouth and was smoking . 
There was no bread in the hovel , but there was still tobacco . 
He was writing probably some more letters like those which Marius had read . 
On the corner of the table lay an ancient , dilapidated , reddish volume , and the size , which was the antique mo of reading rooms , betrayed a romance . 
On the cover sprawled the following title , printed in large capitals GOD THE KING HONOR AND THE LADIES BY DUCRAY DUMINIL , . 
They can reach it in a carriage . 
They are put there so that they will decay the sooner ! You cannot go to see them without sinking into the earth . 
She , too , was clad only in a chemise and a knitted petticoat patched with bits of old cloth . 
A coarse linen apron concealed the half of her petticoat . 
Although this woman was doubled up and bent together , it could be seen that she was of very lofty stature . 
She was a sort of giant , beside her husband . 
Beside her , on the floor , wide open , lay a book of the same form as the other , and probably a volume of the same romance . 
No doubt the younger sister of the one who had come to his room . 
She seemed to be eleven or twelve years of age . 
On closer scrutiny it was evident that she really was fourteen . 
It is indigence which produces these melancholy human plants . 
These creatures have neither childhood nor youth . 
At fifteen years of age they appear to be twelve , at sixteen they seem twenty . 
To day a little girl , to morrow a woman . 
One might say that they stride through life , in order to get through with it the more speedily . 
At this moment , this being had the air of a child . 
Moreover , no trace of work was revealed in that dwelling no handicraft , no spinning wheel , not a tool . 
In one corner lay some ironmongery of dubious aspect . 
It was the dull listlessness which follows despair and precedes the death agony . 
The man held his peace , the woman spoke no word , the young girl did not even seem to breathe . 
The scratching of the pen on the paper was audible . 
The man grumbled , without pausing in his writing . 
Canaille ! canaille ! everybody is canaille ! This variation to Solomon's exclamation elicited a sigh from the woman . 
Calm yourself , my little friend , she said . 
Don't hurt yourself , my dear . 
You are too good to write to all those people , husband . 
Bodies press close to each other in misery , as in cold , but hearts draw apart . 
There no longer existed in her anything more than the ashes of affection for her husband . 
Nevertheless , caressing appellations had survived , as is often the case . 
She called him My dear , my little friend , my good man , etc . 
, with her mouth while her heart was silent . 
The man resumed his writing . 
The door of the attic had just burst open abruptly . 
The eldest girl made her appearance on the threshold . 
Who ? demanded her father . 
The gentleman ! The philanthropist ? Yes . 
From the church of Saint Jacques ? Yes . 
That old fellow ? Yes . 
And he is coming ? He is following me . 
You are sure ? I am sure . 
There , truly , he is coming ? He is coming in a fiacre . 
I gave him the address . 
When I mentioned the house , he seemed surprised and hesitated for an instant , then he said Never mind , I will come . 
When the mass was finished , I watched him leave the church with his daughter , and I saw them enter a carriage . 
I certainly did tell him the last door in the corridor , on the right . 
And what makes you think that he will come ? I have just seen the fiacre turn into the Rue Petit Banquier . 
That is what made me run so . 
How do you know that it was the same fiacre ? Because I took notice of the number , so there ! What was the number ? . 
Good , you are a clever girl . 
I don't know anything more irritating than shoes that squelch , and go ghi , ghi , ghi , the whole time . 
I prefer to go barefoot . 
One cannot go barefoot to the good God , he added bitterly . 
Then , returning to the subject which absorbed him So you are sure that he will come ? He is following on my heels , said she . 
A sort of illumination appeared on his countenance . 
Wife ! he exclaimed , you hear . 
The stupefied mother did not stir . 
The father , with the agility of an acrobat , seized a broken nosed jug which stood on the chimney , and flung the water on the brands . 
Then , addressing his eldest daughter Here you ! Pull the straw off that chair ! His daughter did not understand . 
He seized the chair , and with one kick he rendered it seatless . 
His leg passed through it . 
As he withdrew his leg , he asked his daughter Is it cold ? Very cold . 
Break a pane ! he repeated . 
The child stood still in bewilderment . 
The glass broke and fell with a loud clatter . 
Good , said the father . 
He was grave and abrupt . 
His glance swept rapidly over all the crannies of the garret . 
One would have said that he was a general making the final preparation at the moment when the battle is on the point of beginning . 
His intonation admitted of no deliberation . 
The mother obeyed , and threw herself heavily on one of the pallets . 
In the meantime , a sob became audible in one corner . 
What's that ? cried the father . 
The younger daughter exhibited her bleeding fist , without quitting the corner in which she was cowering . 
She had wounded herself while breaking the window she went off , near her mother's pallet and wept silently . 
What ? So much the better ? retorted his wife . 
Peace ! replied the father , I suppress the liberty of the press . 
Then tearing the woman's chemise which he was wearing , he made a strip of cloth with which he hastily swathed the little girl's bleeding wrist . 
That done , his eye fell with a satisfied expression on his torn chemise . 
And the chemise too , said he , this has a good appearance . 
An icy breeze whistled through the window and entered the room . 
The outer mist penetrated thither and diffused itself like a whitish sheet of wadding vaguely spread by invisible fingers . 
Through the broken pane the snow could be seen falling . 
The snow promised by the Candlemas sun of the preceding day had actually come . 
The father cast a glance about him as though to make sure that he had forgotten nothing . 
He seized an old shovel and spread ashes over the wet brands in such a manner as to entirely conceal them . 
Then drawing himself up and leaning against the chimney piece Now , said he , we can receive the philanthropist . 
CHAPTER VIII THE RAY OF LIGHT IN THE HOVEL The big girl approached and laid her hand in her father's . 
Feel how cold I am , said she . 
Bah ! replied the father , I am much colder than that . 
The mother exclaimed impetuously You always have something better than any one else , so you do ! even bad things . 
Down with you ! said the man . 
The mother , being eyed after a certain fashion , held her tongue . 
Silence reigned for a moment in the hovel . 
No ! exclaimed the father , quite the contrary ! sob ! sob ! that's right . 
And wounded the child ! murmured the mother . 
A man of ripe age and a young girl made their appearance on the threshold of the attic . 
Marius had not quitted his post . 
His feelings for the moment surpassed the powers of the human tongue . 
It was She ! Whoever has loved knows all the radiant meanings contained in those three letters of that word She . 
Marius could hardly distinguish her through the luminous vapor which had suddenly spread before his eyes . 
The vision had been eclipsed , now it reappeared . 
It reappeared in that gloom , in that garret , in that misshapen attic , in all that horror . 
What ! It was she ! The palpitations of his heart troubled his sight . 
She was the same as ever , only a little pale her delicate face was framed in a bonnet of violet velvet , her figure was concealed beneath a pelisse of black satin . 
Beneath her long dress , a glimpse could be caught of her tiny foot shod in a silken boot . 
She was still accompanied by M. Leblanc . 
She had taken a few steps into the room , and had deposited a tolerably bulky parcel on the table . 
The eldest Jondrette girl had retired behind the door , and was staring with sombre eyes at that velvet bonnet , that silk mantle , and that charming , happy face . 
CHAPTER IX JONDRETTE COMES NEAR WEEPING The hovel was so dark , that people coming from without felt on entering it the effect produced on entering a cellar . 
Our angelic benefactor overwhelms us , said Jondrette , bowing to the very earth . 
Monsieur Fabantou , yes , that is it . 
Dramatic artist , sir , and one who has had some success . 
Here Jondrette evidently judged the moment propitious for capturing the philanthropist . 
You see , my benefactor , no bread , no fire . 
My child wounded ! added Jondrette . 
The child , diverted by the arrival of the strangers , had fallen to contemplating the young lady , and had ceased to sob . 
Cry ! bawl ! said Jondrette to her in a low voice . 
At the same time he pinched her sore hand . 
All this was done with the talent of a juggler . 
The little girl gave vent to loud shrieks . 
The adorable young girl , whom Marius , in his heart , called his Ursule , approached her hastily . 
Poor , dear child ! said she . 
You see , my beautiful young lady , pursued Jondrette her bleeding wrist ! It came through an accident while working at a machine to earn six sous a day . 
It may be necessary to cut off her arm . 
Really ? said the old gentleman , in alarm . 
The little girl , taking this seriously , fell to sobbing more violently than ever . 
Alas ! yes , my benefactor ! replied the father . 
For several minutes , Jondrette had been scrutinizing the benefactor in a singular fashion . 
As he spoke , he seemed to be examining the other attentively , as though seeking to summon up his recollections . 
If I had a coat of any sort , I would go and see Mademoiselle Mars , who knows me and is very fond of me . 
Does she not still reside in the Rue de la Tour des Dames ? Do you know , sir ? We played together in the provinces . 
It comes from her age , and besides , her nervous system is affected . 
I did not want them to take to the theatre . 
They are none of your unhappy wretches who begin by having no family , and end by espousing the public . 
One is Mamselle Nobody , and one becomes Madame Everybody . 
I owe for four quarters a whole year ! that is to say , sixty francs . 
Four quarters would have amounted to only forty francs , and he could not owe four , because six months had not elapsed since Marius had paid for two . 
M. Leblanc drew five francs from his pocket and threw them on the table . 
He replied vivaciously Yes , respected sir . 
At eight o'clock , I must be at my landlord's . 
I will be here at six , and I will fetch you the sixty francs . 
My benefactor ! exclaimed Jondrette , overwhelmed . 
Farewell until this evening , my friends ! said he . 
Six o'clock ? said Jondrette . 
At that moment , the overcoat lying on the chair caught the eye of the elder Jondrette girl . 
You are forgetting your coat , sir , said she . 
Jondrette darted an annihilating look at his daughter , accompanied by a formidable shrug of the shoulders . 
M. Leblanc turned back and said , with a smile I have not forgotten it , I am leaving it . 
O my protector ! said Jondrette , my august benefactor , I melt into tears ! Permit me to accompany you to your carriage . 
If you come out , answered M. Leblanc , put on this coat . 
It really is very cold . 
Jondrette did not need to be told twice . 
He hastily donned the brown great coat . 
And all three went out , Jondrette preceding the two strangers . 
CHAPTER X TARIFF OF LICENSED CABS TWO FRANCS AN HOUR Marius had lost nothing of this entire scene , and yet , in reality , had seen nothing . 
During her entire stay there , he had lived that life of ecstasy which suspends material perceptions and precipitates the whole soul on a single point . 
He contemplated , not that girl , but that light which wore a satin pelisse and a velvet bonnet . 
The star Sirius might have entered the room , and he would not have been any more dazzled . 
He knew her eyes , her brow , her beauty , her form , her walk , he did not know the sound of her voice . 
He had once fancied that he had caught a few words at the Luxembourg , but he was not absolutely sure of the fact . 
He would have given ten years of his life to hear it , in order that he might bear away in his soul a little of that music . 
But everything was drowned in the lamentable exclamations and trumpet bursts of Jondrette . 
This added a touch of genuine wrath to Marius' ecstasy . 
He devoured her with his eyes . 
He could not believe that it really was that divine creature whom he saw in the midst of those vile creatures in that monstrous lair . 
It seemed to him that he beheld a humming bird in the midst of toads . 
He leaped down from the commode and seized his hat . 
As he laid his hand on the lock of the door , and was on the point of opening it , a sudden reflection caused him to pause . 
What was he to do ? Should he wait a little ? But while he was waiting , the carriage might drive off . 
At last he accepted the risk and quitted his room . 
There was no one in the corridor . 
He hastened to the stairs . 
There was no one on the staircase . 
He descended in all haste , and reached the boulevard in time to see a fiacre turning the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier , on its way back to Paris . 
Marius rushed headlong in that direction . 
At that moment , wonderful and unprecedented good luck , Marius perceived an empty cab passing along the boulevard . 
There was but one thing to be done , to jump into this cab and follow the fiacre . 
That was sure , efficacious , and free from danger . 
The driver halted , winked , and held out his left hand to Marius , rubbing his forefinger gently with his thumb . 
What is it ? said Marius . 
Pay in advance , said the coachman . 
Marius recollected that he had but sixteen sous about him . 
How much ? he demanded . 
I will pay on my return . 
The driver's only reply was to whistle the air of La Palisse and to whip up his horse . 
Marius stared at the retreating cabriolet with a bewildered air . 
For the lack of four and twenty sous , he was losing his joy , his happiness , his love ! He had seen , and he was becoming blind again . 
He reflected bitterly , and it must be confessed , with profound regret , on the five francs which he had bestowed , that very morning , on that miserable girl . 
This man's name the reader has learned in the preceding book . 
This Panchaud , alias Printanier , alias Bigrenaille , figured later on in many criminal trials , and became a notorious rascal . 
He was at that time only a famous rascal . 
To day he exists in the state of tradition among ruffians and assassins . 
He was at the head of a school towards the end of the last reign . 
And in the evening , at nightfall , at the hour when groups form and talk in whispers , he was discussed at La Force in the Fosse aux Lions . 
In , the police already had their eye on him , but he had not as yet made a serious beginning . 
Moreover , she would not have given them back . 
Marius entered his room and pushed the door to after him . 
It did not close he turned round and beheld a hand which held the door half open . 
What is it ? he asked , who is there ? It was the Jondrette girl . 
Is it you ? resumed Marius almost harshly , still you ! What do you want with me ? She appeared to be thoughtful and did not look at him . 
She no longer had the air of assurance which had characterized her that morning . 
She did not enter , but held back in the darkness of the corridor , where Marius could see her through the half open door . 
Come now , will you answer ? cried Marius . 
What do you want with me ? She raised her dull eyes , in which a sort of gleam seemed to flicker vaguely , and said Monsieur Marius , you look sad . 
What is the matter with you ? With me ! said Marius . 
There is nothing the matter with me . 
Yes , there is ! No. I tell you there is ! Let me alone ! Marius gave the door another push , but she retained her hold on it . 
Stop , said she , you are in the wrong . 
Although you are not rich , you were kind this morning . 
You gave me something to eat , now tell me what ails you . 
You are grieved , that is plain . 
I do not want you to be grieved . 
What can be done for it ? Can I be of any service ? Employ me . 
I do not ask for your secrets , you need not tell them to me , but I may be of use , nevertheless . 
I may be able to help you , since I help my father . 
An idea flashed across Marius' mind . 
What branch does one disdain when one feels that one is falling ? He drew near to the Jondrette girl . 
Listen he said to her . 
She interrupted him with a gleam of joy in her eyes . 
Oh yes , do call me thou ! I like that better . 
Well , he resumed , thou hast brought hither that old gentleman and his daughter ! Yes . 
Dost thou know their address ? No. Find it for me . 
The Jondrette's dull eyes had grown joyous , and they now became gloomy . 
Is that what you want ? she demanded . 
Do you know them ? No. That is to say , she resumed quickly , you do not know her , but you wish to know her . 
This them which had turned into her had something indescribably significant and bitter about it . 
Well , can you do it ? said Marius . 
You shall have the beautiful lady's address . 
There was still a shade in the words the beautiful lady which troubled Marius . 
He resumed Never mind , after all , the address of the father and daughter . 
Their address , indeed ! She gazed fixedly at him . 
What will you give me ? Anything you like . 
Anything I like ? Yes . 
You shall have the address . 
She dropped her head then , with a brusque movement , she pulled to the door , which closed behind her . 
He dropped into a chair , with his head and both elbows on his bed , absorbed in thoughts which he could not grasp , and as though a prey to vertigo . 
All at once he was violently aroused from his revery . 
Again he beheld the interior of Jondrette's hovel . 
Two new blankets were thrown across the two beds . 
Jondrette had evidently just returned . 
He still had the breathlessness of out of doors . 
His daughters were seated on the floor near the fireplace , the elder engaged in dressing the younger's wounded hand . 
His wife had sunk back on the bed near the fireplace , with a face indicative of astonishment . 
Jondrette was pacing up and down the garret with long strides . 
The mother stammered With her injured hand . 
The air will do it good , said Jondrette . 
It was plain that this man was of the sort to whom no one offers to reply . 
On being left alone with his wife , Jondrette began to pace the room again , and made the tour of it two or three times in silence . 
Then he spent several minutes in tucking the lower part of the woman's chemise which he wore into his trousers . 
He listened with ardent anxiety . 
His whole life was in his ears . 
But Jondrette had bent over and spoke to his wife in a whisper . 
Then he straightened himself up and concluded aloud It is she ! That one ? said his wife . 
That very one , said the husband . 
No expression can reproduce the significance of the mother's words . 
Surprise , rage , hate , wrath , were mingled and combined in one monstrous intonation . 
It is not possible ! she cried . 
At this absolute assertion , the Jondrette woman raised her large , red , blonde face and stared at the ceiling with a horrible expression . 
At that moment , she seemed to Marius even more to be feared than her husband . 
She was a sow with the look of a tigress . 
Then she fell back on the bed once more . 
The man paced to and fro and paid no attention to his female . 
He answered in a low , curt voice My fortune is made . 
What do you mean by that ? asked the woman . 
Bah ! Who's here ? Our neighbor ? I saw him go out a little while ago . 
Besides , he doesn't listen , the big booby . 
And I tell you that I saw him go out . 
Nevertheless , by a sort of instinct , Jondrette lowered his voice , although not sufficiently to prevent Marius hearing his words . 
One favorable circumstance , which enabled Marius not to lose a word of this conversation was the falling snow which deadened the sound of vehicles on the boulevard . 
This is what Marius heard Listen carefully . 
The Croesus is caught , or as good as caught ! That's all settled already . 
I have seen some people . 
He will come here this evening at six o'clock . 
Mother Bougon is off washing dishes in the city . 
There's not a soul in the house . 
The neighbor never comes home until eleven o'clock . 
The children shall stand on watch . 
And what if he does not give in ? demanded his wife . 
Jondrette made a sinister gesture , and said We'll fix him . 
And he burst out laughing . 
This was the first time Marius had seen him laugh . 
The laugh was cold and sweet , and provoked a shudder . 
Jondrette opened a cupboard near the fireplace , and drew from it an old cap , which he placed on his head , after brushing it with his sleeve . 
Now , said he , I'm going out . 
I have some more people that I must see . 
You'll see how well the whole thing will work . 
I shall be away as short a time as possible , it's a fine stroke of business , do you look after the house . 
He would have slipped through our fingers ! It was my beard that saved us ! my romantic beard ! my pretty little romantic beard ! And again he broke into a laugh . 
He stepped to the window . 
The snow was still falling , and streaking the gray of the sky . 
What beastly weather ! said he . 
Then lapping his overcoat across his breast This rind is too large for me . 
I came near forgetting , said he . 
You are to have a brazier of charcoal ready . 
And he flung into his wife's apron the five franc piece which the philanthropist had left with him . 
A brazier of charcoal ? asked his wife . 
How many bushels ? Two good ones . 
That will come to thirty sous . 
With the rest I will buy something for dinner . 
Why ? Don't go and spend the hundred sou piece . 
Why ? Because I shall have to buy something , too . 
How much shall you need ? Whereabouts in the neighborhood is there an ironmonger's shop ? Rue Mouffetard . 
Ah ! yes , at the corner of a street I can see the shop . 
But tell me how much you will need for what you have to purchase ? Fifty sous three francs . 
There won't be much left for dinner . 
Eating is not the point to day . 
There's something better to be done . 
That's enough , my jewel . 
At that moment , one o'clock struck from the church of Saint Medard . 
Now , it was into a hole of vipers that his glance had just been directed , it was a nest of monsters that he had beneath his eyes . 
These wretches must be stamped upon , said he . 
He scanned the female Jondrette for a moment . 
She had pulled an old sheet iron stove from a corner , and she was rummaging among the old heap of iron . 
He descended from the commode as softly as possible , taking care not to make the least noise . 
But how was it to be done ? How warn the persons threatened ? He did not know their address . 
They had reappeared for an instant before his eyes , and had then plunged back again into the immense depths of Paris . 
One o'clock had just struck , the trap was to be sprung at six . 
Marius had five hours before him . 
There was but one thing to be done . 
Moreover , the Jondrette woman continued to rummage among her old iron . 
Once outside of the house , he made for the Rue du Petit Banquier . 
He turned his head , the street was deserted , there was not a soul in it , it was broad daylight , and yet he distinctly heard voices . 
It occurred to him to glance over the wall which he was skirting . 
There , in fact , sat two men , flat on the snow , with their backs against the wall , talking together in subdued tones . 
These two persons were strangers to him one was a bearded man in a blouse , and the other a long haired individual in rags . 
The bearded man had on a fez , the other's head was bare , and the snow had lodged in his hair . 
By thrusting his head over the wall , Marius could hear their remarks . 
The hairy one jogged the other man's elbow and said With the assistance of Patron Minette , it can't fail . 
Do you think so ? said the bearded man . 
You can't go against such things . 
I tell you that the affair can't go wrong , resumed the long haired man . 
Father What's his name's team will be already harnessed . 
Then they began to discuss a melodrama that they had seen on the preceding evening at the Gaite Theatre . 
That must be the affair . 
He directed his course towards the faubourg Saint Marceau and asked at the first shop he came to where he could find a commissary of police . 
He was directed to Rue de Pontoise , No. . 
As he passed a baker's shop , he bought a two penny roll , and ate it , foreseeing that he should not dine . 
On the way , he rendered justice to Providence . 
The commissary of police is not here , said a clerk but there is an inspector who takes his place . 
Would you like to speak to him ? Are you in haste ? Yes , said Marius . 
The clerk introduced him into the commissary's office . 
There stood a tall man behind a grating , leaning against a stove , and holding up with both hands the tails of a vast topcoat , with three collars . 
His face was square , with a thin , firmmouth , thick , gray , and very ferocious whiskers , and a look that was enough to turn your pockets inside out . 
Of that glance it might have been well said , not that it penetrated , but that it searched . 
This man's air was not much less ferocious nor less terrible than Jondrette's the dog is , at times , no less terrible to meet than the wolf . 
What do you want ? he said to Marius , without adding monsieur . 
Is this Monsieur le Commissaire de Police ? He is absent . 
I am here in his stead . 
The matter is very private . 
And great haste is required . 
This calm , abrupt man was both terrifying and reassuring at one and the same time . 
He inspired fear and confidence . 
He went on , muttering between his teeth , and not addressing Marius so much as his cravat Patron Minette must have had a hand in this . 
Patron Minette , said he , I did hear that word pronounced , in fact . 
And he repeated to the inspector the dialogue between the long haired man and the bearded man in the snow behind the wall of the Rue du Petit Banquier . 
The inspector muttered The long haired man must be Brujon , and the bearded one Demi Liard , alias Deux Milliards . 
He had dropped his eyelids again , and became absorbed in thought . 
As for Father What's his name , I think I recognize him . 
Here , I've burned my coat . 
They always have too much fire in these cursed stoves . 
Then he glanced at Marius . 
You saw only that bearded and that long haired man ? And Panchaud . 
It is not surprising that you did not see him . 
No. Who are all those persons ? asked Marius . 
The inspector answered Besides , this is not the time for them . 
He relapsed into silence , then resumed . 
Impossible to conceal ourselves inside it without the artists seeing us , and then they will get off simply by countermanding the vaudeville . 
They are so modest ! An audience embarrasses them . 
None of that , none of that . 
I want to hear them sing and make them dance . 
This monologue concluded , he turned to Marius , and demanded , gazing at him intently the while Are you afraid ? Of what ? said Marius . 
Of these men ? No more than yourself ! retorted Marius rudely , who had begun to notice that this police agent had not yet said monsieur to him . 
The inspector stared still more intently at Marius , and continued with sententious solemnity There , you speak like a brave man , and like an honest man . 
Courage does not fear crime , and honesty does not fear authority . 
Have you it about you ? Yes . 
Give it to me , said the inspector . 
Marius took his key from his waistcoat pocket , handed it to the inspector and added If you will take my advice , you will come in force . 
Then he presented them to Marius , saying rapidly , in a curt tone Take these . 
Hide in your chamber , so that you may be supposed to have gone out . 
Each one carries two balls . 
You will keep watch there is a hole in the wall , as you have informed me . 
Leave them to their own devices for a time . 
When you think matters have reached a crisis , and that it is time to put a stop to them , fire a shot . 
A shot into the ceiling , the air , no matter where . 
Above all things , not too soon . 
Wait until they begin to put their project into execution you are a lawyer you know the proper point . 
Marius took the pistols and put them in the side pocket of his coat . 
That makes a lump that can be seen , said the inspector . 
Put them in your trousers pocket . 
Marius hid the pistols in his trousers pockets . 
Now , pursued the inspector , there is not a minute more to be lost by any one . 
What time is it ? Half past two . 
Seven o'clock is the hour ? Six o'clock , answered Marius . 
I have plenty of time , said the inspector , but no more than enough . 
Don't forget anything that I have said to you . 
Rest easy , said Marius . 
You will ask for Inspector Javert . 
CHAPTER XV JONDRETTE MAKES HIS PURCHASES A few moments later , about three o'clock , Courfeyrac chanced to be passing along the Rue Mouffetard in company with Bossuet . 
The snow had redoubled in violence , and filled the air . 
Bossuet was just saying to Courfeyrac One would say , to see all these snow flakes fall , that there was a plague of white butterflies in heaven . 
All at once , Bossuet caught sight of Marius coming up the street towards the barrier with a peculiar air . 
I saw him , said Courfeyrac . 
Don't let's speak to him . 
Why ? He is busy . 
With what ? Don't you see his air ? What air ? He has the air of a man who is following some one . 
That's true , said Bossuet . 
Just see the eyes he is making ! said Courfeyrac . 
But who the deuce is he following ? Some fine , flowery bonneted wench ! He's in love . 
But , observed Bossuet , I don't see any wench nor any flowery bonnet in the street . 
There's not a woman round . 
This man was dressed in a great coat which was perfectly new and too large for him , and in a frightful pair of trousers all hanging in rags and black with mud . 
Who is that man ? He ? retorted Courfeyrac , he's a poet . 
Poets are very fond of wearing the trousers of dealers in rabbit skins and the overcoats of peers of France . 
Follow a man who is following another man , indeed ! They retraced their steps . 
Marius had , in fact , seen Jondrette passing along the Rue Mouffetard , and was spying on his proceedings . 
Jondrette walked straight ahead , without a suspicion that he was already held by a glance . 
At the top of the Rue Petit Gentilly he turned to the left and proceeded rapidly to the Rue du Petit Banquier . 
The day was declining the snow , which had ceased for a moment , had just begun again . 
Marius posted himself on the watch at the very corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier , which was deserted , as usual , and did not follow Jondrette into it . 
Marius had given his key to the inspector of police it was important , therefore , that he should make haste . 
It was rising in a ruddy glow behind the low dome of Salpetriere . 
Marius returned to No. with great strides . 
The door was still open when he arrived . 
He mounted the stairs on tip toe and glided along the wall of the corridor to his chamber . 
This corridor , as the reader will remember , was bordered on both sides by attics , all of which were , for the moment , empty and to let . 
Ma'am Bougon was in the habit of leaving all the doors open . 
He succeeded in reaching his chamber without being seen and without making any noise . 
A moment later he heard Ma'am Bougon take her departure , locking the door of the house behind her . 
CHAPTER XVI IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND THE WORDS TO AN ENGLISH AIR WHICH WAS IN FASHION IN Marius seated himself on his bed . 
It might have been half past five o'clock . 
Only half an hour separated him from what was about to happen . 
He heard the beating of his arteries as one hears the ticking of a watch in the dark . 
He thought of the double march which was going on at that moment in the dark , crime advancing on one side , justice coming up on the other . 
He was not afraid , but he could not think without a shudder of what was about to take place . 
There was a light in the Jondrette den . 
Marius saw the hole in the wall shining with a reddish glow which seemed bloody to him . 
It was true that the light could not be produced by a candle . 
Marius softly removed his boots and pushed them under his bed . 
Marius heard the lower door turn on its hinges a heavy step mounted the staircase , and hastened along the corridor the latch of the hovel was noisily lifted it was Jondrette returning . 
Instantly , several voices arose . 
The whole family was in the garret . 
Only , it had been silent in the master's absence , like wolf whelps in the absence of the wolf . 
It's I , said he . 
Good evening , daddy , yelped the girls . 
Well ? said the mother . 
All's going first rate , responded Jondrette , but my feet are beastly cold . 
Good ! You have dressed up . 
You have done well ! You must inspire confidence . 
All ready to go out . 
Don't forget what I told you . 
You will do everything sure ? Rest easy . 
And he left the phrase unfinished . 
Marius heard him lay something heavy on the table , probably the chisel which he had purchased . 
By the way , said Jondrette , have you been eating here ? Yes , said the mother . 
I got three large potatoes and some salt . 
I took advantage of the fire to cook them . 
To morrow I will take you out to dine with me . 
We will have a duck and fixings . 
You shall dine like Charles the Tenth all is going well ! Then he added The mouse trap is open . 
He lowered his voice still further , and said Put this in the fire . 
What time is it ? Nearly six . 
The half hour struck from Saint Medard a while ago . 
The devil ! ejaculated Jondrette the children must go and watch . 
Come you , do you listen here . 
Jondrette's voice became audible again Has old Bougon left ? Yes , said the mother . 
Are you sure that there is no one in our neighbor's room ? He has not been in all day , and you know very well that this is his dinner hour . 
You are sure ? Sure . 
All the same , said Jondrette , there's no harm in going to see whether he is there . 
Here , my girl , take the candle and go there . 
Marius fell on his hands and knees and crawled silently under his bed . 
Hardly had he concealed himself , when he perceived a light through the crack of his door . 
P'pa , cried a voice , he is not in here . 
He recognized the voice of the eldest daughter . 
Did you go in ? demanded her father . 
No , replied the girl , but as his key is in the door , he must be out . 
The father exclaimed Go in , nevertheless . 
The door opened , and Marius saw the tall Jondrette come in with a candle in her hand . 
She was as she had been in the morning , only still more repulsive in this light . 
She walked straight up to the bed . 
Marius endured an indescribable moment of anxiety but near the bed there was a mirror nailed to the wall , and it was thither that she was directing her steps . 
She raised herself on tiptoe and looked at herself in it . 
In the neighboring room , the sound of iron articles being moved was audible . 
In the meantime , Marius trembled . 
It seemed impossible to him that she should not hear his breathing . 
She stepped to the window and looked out with the half foolish way she had . 
How ugly Paris is when it has put on a white chemise ! said she . 
She returned to the mirror and began again to put on airs before it , scrutinizing herself full face and three quarters face in turn . 
Booby ! yelled her father . 
Come here this minute ! And don't waste any time about it ! Coming ! Coming ! said she . 
One has no time for anything in this hovel ! She hummed Vous me quittez pour aller a la gloire Mon triste coeur suivra partout . 
You leave me to go to glory my sad heart will follow you everywhere . 
She cast a parting glance in the mirror and went out , shutting the door behind her . 
The eldest girl grumbled The idea of standing watch in the snow barefoot ! To morrow you shall have some dainty little green silk boots ! said the father . 
They ran down stairs , and a few seconds later the shock of the outer door as it banged to announced that they were outside . 
CHAPTER XVII THE USE MADE OF MARIUS' FIVE FRANC PIECE Marius decided that the moment had now arrived when he must resume his post at his observatory . 
In a twinkling , and with the agility of his age , he had reached the hole in the partition . 
The interior of the Jondrette apartment presented a curious aspect , and Marius found an explanation of the singular light which he had noticed . 
A candle was burning in a candlestick covered with verdigris , but that was not what really lighted the chamber . 
All this would have caused the mind of a person who knew nothing of what was in preparation , to waver between a very sinister and a very simple idea . 
The lair thus lighted up more resembled a forge than a mouth of hell , but Jondrette , in this light , had rather the air of a demon than of a smith . 
The heat of the brazier was so great , that the candle on the table was melting on the side next the chafing dish , and was drooping over . 
An old dark lantern of copper , worthy of Diogenes turned Cartouche , stood on the chimney piece . 
The brazier , placed in the fireplace itself , beside the nearly extinct brands , sent its vapors up the chimney , and gave out no odor . 
A breath of air which made its way in through the open pane , helped to dissipate the smell of the charcoal and to conceal the presence of the brazier . 
It was the most retired chamber in the most isolated house on the most deserted boulevard in Paris . 
If the system of ambush and traps had not already existed , they would have been invented there . 
Jondrette had lighted his pipe , seated himself on the seatless chair , and was engaged in smoking . 
His wife was talking to him in a low tone . 
It was this toilette which had extracted from Jondrette the exclamation Good ! You have dressed up . 
All at once , Jondrette lifted up his voice By the way ! Now that I think of it . 
In this weather , he will come in a carriage . 
Light the lantern , take it and go down stairs . 
You will stand behind the lower door . 
And the money ? inquired the woman . 
Jondrette fumbled in his trousers pocket and handed her five francs . 
What's this ? she exclaimed . 
Jondrette replied with dignity That is the monarch which our neighbor gave us this morning . 
And he added Do you know what ? Two chairs will be needed here . 
What for ? To sit on . 
Marius felt a cold chill pass through his limbs at hearing this mild answer from Jondrette . 
Pardieu ! I'll go and get one of our neighbor's . 
And with a rapid movement , she opened the door of the den , and went out into the corridor . 
Marius absolutely had not the time to descend from the commode , reach his bed , and conceal himself beneath it . 
Take the candle , cried Jondrette . 
No , said she , it would embarrass me , I have the two chairs to carry . 
Marius heard Mother Jondrette's heavy hand fumbling at his lock in the dark . 
He remained nailed to the spot with the shock and with horror . 
The dormer window permitted the entrance of a ray of moonlight between two blocks of shadow . 
One of these blocks of shadow entirely covered the wall against which Marius was leaning , so that he disappeared within it . 
She re entered the lair . 
Here are the two chairs . 
And here is the lantern . 
Go down as quick as you can . 
She hastily obeyed , and Jondrette was left alone . 
Those are the utensils of an edge tool maker , thought Marius . 
The fireplace and the two chairs were exactly opposite Marius . 
There was something indescribably calm , threatening , and hideous about this chamber . 
One felt that there existed in it the anticipation of something terrible . 
Jondrette had allowed his pipe to go out , a serious sign of preoccupation , and had again seated himself . 
The candle brought out the fierce and the fine angles of his countenance . 
He indulged in scowls and in abrupt unfoldings of the right hand , as though he were responding to the last counsels of a sombre inward monologue . 
That done , he put the knife back in the drawer and shut it . 
Marius , on his side , grasped the pistol in his right pocket , drew it out and cocked it . 
The pistol emitted a sharp , clear click , as he cocked it . 
CHAPTER XVIII MARIUS' TWO CHAIRS FORM A VIS A VIS Suddenly , the distant and melancholy vibration of a clock shook the panes . 
Six o'clock was striking from Saint Medard . 
Jondrette marked off each stroke with a toss of his head . 
When the sixth had struck , he snuffed the candle with his fingers . 
Then he began to pace up and down the room , listened at the corridor , walked on again , then listened once more . 
Provided only that he comes ! he muttered , then he returned to his chair . 
He had hardly reseated himself when the door opened . 
Mother Jondrette had opened it , and now remained in the corridor making a horrible , amiable grimace , which one of the holes of the dark lantern illuminated from below . 
Enter , sir , she said . 
Enter , my benefactor , repeated Jondrette , rising hastily . 
M. Leblanc made his appearance . 
He wore an air of serenity which rendered him singularly venerable . 
He laid four louis on the table . 
Monsieur Fabantou , said he , this is for your rent and your most pressing necessities . 
We will attend to the rest hereafter . 
May God requite it to you , my generous benefactor ! said Jondrette . 
And rapidly approaching his wife Dismiss the carriage ! She slipped out while her husband was lavishing salutes and offering M. Leblanc a chair . 
An instant later she returned and whispered in his ear 'Tis done . 
Meanwhile , M. Leblanc had seated himself . 
Jondrette had taken possession of the other chair , facing M. Leblanc . 
However , Marius experienced only an emotion of horror , but no fear . 
He clasped the stock of the pistol firmly and felt reassured . 
I shall be able to stop that wretch whenever I please , he thought . 
He felt that the police were there somewhere in ambuscade , waiting for the signal agreed upon and ready to stretch out their arm . 
Moreover , he was in hopes , that this violent encounter between Jondrette and M. Leblanc would cast some light on all the things which he was interested in learning . 
CHAPTER XIX OCCUPYING ONE'S SELF WITH OBSCURE DEPTHS Hardly was M. Leblanc seated , when he turned his eyes towards the pallets , which were empty . 
How is the poor little wounded girl ? he inquired . 
Bad , replied Jondrette with a heart broken and grateful smile , very bad , my worthy sir . 
Her elder sister has taken her to the Bourbe to have her hurt dressed . 
You will see them presently they will be back immediately . 
She is dying , said Jondrette . 
But what do you expect , sir ! She has so much courage , that woman has ! She's not a woman , she's an ox . 
The Jondrette , touched by his compliment , deprecated it with the affected airs of a flattered monster . 
You are always too good to me , Monsieur Jondrette ! Jondrette ! said M. Leblanc , I thought your name was Fabantou ? Fabantou , alias Jondrette ! replied the husband hurriedly . 
I don't wish them any evil , but if I were the ministers , on my most sacred word , things would be different . 
Here , for instance , I wanted to have my girls taught the trade of paper box makers . 
A man had just entered , so softly that the door had not been heard to turn on its hinges . 
He had seated himself in silence on the nearest bed , and , as he was behind Jondrette , he could only be indistinctly seen . 
That sort of magnetic instinct which turns aside the gaze , caused M. Leblanc to turn round almost at the same moment as Marius . 
He could not refrain from a gesture of surprise which did not escape Jondrette . 
Him ? ejaculated Jondrette , he's a neighbor of mine . 
Don't pay any attention to him . 
The neighbor was a singular looking individual . 
However , manufactories of chemical products abound in the Faubourg Saint Marceau . 
Many of the workmen might have black faces . 
Besides this , M. Leblanc's whole person was expressive of candid and intrepid confidence . 
A slight sound came from the door . 
A second man had just entered and seated himself on the bed , behind Jondrette . 
Like the first , his arms were bare , and he had a mask of ink or lampblack . 
Although this man had , literally , glided into the room , he had not been able to prevent M. Leblanc catching sight of him . 
Don't mind them , said Jondrette , they are people who belong in the house . 
So I was saying , that there remains in my possession a valuable picture . 
But stop , sir , take a look at it . 
He rose , went to the wall at the foot of which stood the panel which we have already mentioned , and turned it round , still leaving it supported against the wall . 
It really was something which resembled a picture , and which the candle illuminated , somewhat . 
What is that ? asked M. Leblanc . 
Either by chance , or because he had begun to feel a dawning uneasiness , M. Leblanc's glance returned to the bottom of the room as he examined the picture . 
There were now four men , three seated on the bed , one standing near the door post , all four with bare arms and motionless , with faces smeared with black . 
One of those on the bed was leaning against the wall , with closed eyes , and it might have been supposed that he was asleep . 
He was old his white hair contrasting with his blackened face produced a horrible effect . 
The other two seemed to be young one wore a beard , the other wore his hair long . 
None of them had on shoes those who did not wear socks were barefooted . 
Jondrette noticed that M. Leblanc's eye was fixed on these men . 
They are neighbors , said he . 
Their faces are black because they work in charcoal . 
Don't trouble yourself about them , my benefactor , but buy my picture . 
Have pity on my misery . 
I will not ask you much for it . 
Jondrette replied sweetly Have you your pocket book with you ? I should be satisfied with a thousand crowns . 
M. Leblanc sprang up , placed his back against the wall , and cast a rapid glance around the room . 
He had Jondrette on his left , on the side next the window , and the Jondrette woman and the four men on his right , on the side next the door . 
The four men did not stir , and did not even seem to be looking on . 
M. Leblanc's eye was fixed on Jondrette , and Jondrette's eye was fixed on the door . 
Marius' eager attention was transferred from one to the other . 
The third , a man with thick set shoulders , not so slender as the first , held in his hand an enormous key stolen from the door of some prison . 
It appeared that the arrival of these men was what Jondrette had been waiting for . 
A rapid dialogue ensued between him and the man with the cudgel , the thin one . 
Is everything ready ? said Jondrette . 
Yes , replied the thin man . 
Where is Montparnasse ? The young principal actor stopped to chat with your girl . 
Is there a carriage at the door ? Yes . 
Is the team harnessed ? Yes . 
With two good horses ? Excellent . 
Is it waiting where I ordered ? Yes . 
M. Leblanc was very pale . 
The father of a woman whom we love is never a stranger to us . 
Marius felt proud of that unknown man . 
The old man had remained on the bed , and had merely opened his eyes . 
The Jondrette woman had seated herself beside him . 
Marius did not hear this reply . 
Any one who had seen him at that moment through the darkness would have perceived that he was haggard , stupid , thunder struck . 
Jondrette , by revealing his identity , had not moved M. Leblanc , but he had quite upset Marius . 
That name of Thenardier , with which M. Leblanc did not seem to be acquainted , Marius knew well . 
If my son encounters him , he will do him all the good that lies in his power . 
That name , it will be remembered , was one of the pieties of his soul he mingled it with the name of his father in his worship . 
Unknown to themselves , he held in his hand all those beings who were moving about there before his eyes . 
Should he dash down the one or allow the other to fall ? Remorse awaited him in either case . 
He felt that he was going mad . 
His knees gave way beneath him . 
And he had not even the time for deliberation , so great was the fury with which the scene before his eyes was hastening to its catastrophe . 
It was like a whirlwind of which he had thought himself the master , and which was now sweeping him away . 
He was on the verge of swooning . 
I said to myself Blockhead ! Come , I've got you ! I lick your paws this morning , but I'll gnaw your heart this evening ! Thenardier paused . 
He was out of breath . 
His little , narrow chest panted like a forge bellows . 
M. Leblanc did not interrupt him , but said to him when he paused I do not know what you mean to say . 
You are mistaken in me . 
I am a very poor man , and anything but a millionnaire . 
I do not know you . 
You are mistaking me for some other person . 
We , it is we who are thermometers . 
He told me his name , but his beastly voice was so weak that I didn't hear . 
All I caught was Merci thanks . 
I'd rather have had his name than his thanks . 
That would have helped me to find him again . 
The picture that you see here , and which was painted by David at Bruqueselles , do you know what it represents ? It represents me . 
David wished to immortalize that feat of prowess . 
I have that general on my back , and I am carrying him through the grape shot . 
The last possibility of doubt had just vanished . 
It certainly was the Thenardier of the will . 
Marius shuddered at that reproach of ingratitude directed against his father , and which he was on the point of so fatally justifying . 
It was the group composed of Pontmercy and Thenardier the sergeant the rescuer , the colonel rescued . 
At the same moment , an enormous , bristling , and clayey face made its appearance at the door , with a hideous laugh which exhibited not teeth , but fangs . 
It was the face of the man with the butcher's axe . 
Why have you taken off your mask ? cried Thenardier in a rage . 
For fun , retorted the man . 
During his address to the man with the pole axe , he had turned his back to M. Leblanc . 
To open it , to scale the frame , to bestride it , was the work of a second only . 
He was half out when six robust fists seized him and dragged him back energetically into the hovel . 
These were the three chimney builders , who had flung themselves upon him . 
At the same time the Thenardier woman had wound her hands in his hair . 
At the trampling which ensued , the other ruffians rushed up from the corridor . 
The old man on the bed , who seemed under the influence of wine , descended from the pallet and came reeling up , with a stone breaker's hammer in his hand . 
Marius could not resist this sight . 
My father , he thought , forgive me ! And his finger sought the trigger of his pistol . 
The shot was on the point of being discharged when Thenardier's voice shouted Don't harm him ! This desperate attempt of the victim , far from exasperating Thenardier , had calmed him . 
There existed in him two men , the ferocious man and the adroit man . 
They succeeded in overthrowing him upon the bed nearest the window , and there they held him in awe . 
The Thenardier woman had not released her clutch on his hair . 
Don't you mix yourself up in this affair , said Thenardier . 
The Thenardier obeyed , as the female wolf obeys the male wolf , with a growl . 
Now , said Thenardier , search him , you other fellows ! M. Leblanc seemed to have renounced the idea of resistance . 
He had nothing on his person except a leather purse containing six francs , and his handkerchief . 
Thenardier put the handkerchief into his own pocket . 
What ! No pocket book ? he demanded . 
No , nor watch , replied one of the chimney builders . 
Never mind , murmured the masked man who carried the big key , in the voice of a ventriloquist , he's a tough old fellow . 
Thenardier went to the corner near the door , picked up a bundle of ropes and threw them at the men . 
Tie him to the leg of the bed , said he . 
Sweep him into a corner , said Thenardier . 
Two of the chimney builders pushed the drunken man into the corner near the heap of old iron with their feet . 
Babet , said Thenardier in a low tone to the man with the cudgel , why did you bring so many they were not needed . 
What can you do ? replied the man with the cudgel , they all wanted to be in it . 
This is a bad season . 
There's no business going on . 
The pallet on which M. Leblanc had been thrown was a sort of hospital bed , elevated on four coarse wooden legs , roughly hewn . 
M. Leblanc let them take their own course . 
When the last knot had been tied , Thenardier took a chair and seated himself almost facing M. Leblanc . 
Thenardier no longer looked like himself in the course of a few moments his face had passed from unbridled violence to tranquil and cunning sweetness . 
And dismissing with a gesture the ruffians who still kept their hands on M. Leblanc Stand off a little , and let me have a talk with the gentleman . 
All retired towards the door . 
He went on Monsieur , you did wrong to try to jump out of the window . 
You might have broken your leg . 
Now , if you will permit me , we will converse quietly . 
In the first place , I must communicate to you an observation which I have made which is , that you have not uttered the faintest cry . 
Thenardier was right , this detail was correct , although it had escaped Marius in his agitation . 
Thenardier continued Mon Dieu ! You might have shouted stop thief' a bit , and I should not have thought it improper . 
Murder ! That , too , is said occasionally , and , so far as I am concerned , I should not have taken it in bad part . 
It is very natural that you should make a little row when you find yourself with persons who don't inspire you with sufficient confidence . 
You might have done that , and no one would have troubled you on that account . 
You would not even have been gagged . 
And I will tell you why . 
This room is very private . 
That's its only recommendation , but it has that in its favor . 
You might fire off a mortar and it would produce about as much noise at the nearest police station as the snores of a drunken man . 
Here a cannon would make a boum , and the thunder would make a pouf . 
But , in short , you did not shout , and it is better so . 
I present you my compliments , and I will tell you the conclusion that I draw from that fact My dear sir , when a man shouts , who comes ? The police . 
And after the police ? Justice . 
Well ! You have not made an outcry that is because you don't care to have the police and the courts come in any more than we do . 
It is because , I have long suspected it , you have some interest in hiding something . 
On our side we have the same interest . 
So we can come to an understanding . 
Thenardier's well grounded observation still further obscured for Marius the dense mystery which enveloped that grave and singular person on whom Courfeyrac had bestowed the sobriquet of Monsieur Leblanc . 
Here , evidently , was a soul which was inaccessible to terror , and which did not know the meaning of despair . 
Here was one of those men who command amazement in desperate circumstances . 
Extreme as was the crisis , inevitable as was the catastrophe , there was nothing here of the agony of the drowning man , who opens his horror filled eyes under the water . 
Then Thenardier returned to his seat beside M. Leblanc . 
I continue , said he . 
We can come to an understanding . 
Let us arrange this matter in an amicable way . 
I was wrong to lose my temper just now , I don't know what I was thinking of , I went a great deal too far , I said extravagant things . 
For example , because you are a millionnaire , I told you that I exacted money , a lot of money , a deal of money . 
That would not be reasonable . 
I am not one of those people who , because they have the advantage of the position , profit by the fact to make themselves ridiculous . 
Why , I'm taking things into consideration and making a sacrifice on my side . 
I only want two hundred thousand francs . 
M. Leblanc uttered not a word . 
Thenardier went on You see that I put not a little water in my wine I'm very moderate . 
Two hundred thousand francs it's surely worth all that . 
This trifle once out of your pocket , I guarantee you that that's the end of the matter , and that you have no further demands to fear . 
You will say to me But I haven't two hundred thousand francs about me . 
Oh ! I'm not extortionate . 
I only ask one thing of you . 
Have the goodness to write what I am about to dictate to you . 
A grand inquisitor might have envied that smile . 
He placed the sheet of paper before M. Leblanc . 
The prisoner spoke at last . 
How do you expect me to write ? I am bound . 
That's true , excuse me ! ejaculated Thenardier , you are quite right . 
And turning to Bigrenaille Untie the gentleman's right arm . 
Panchaud , alias Printanier , alias Bigrenaille , executed Thenardier's order . 
When the prisoner's right arm was free , Thenardier dipped the pen in the ink and presented it to him . 
Now , be so good as to write . 
What ? demanded the prisoner . 
M. Leblanc took the pen . 
Thenardier began to dictate My daughter The prisoner shuddered , and raised his eyes to Thenardier . 
Put down My dear daughter' said Thenardier . 
Thenardier continued Come instantly He paused You address her as thou , do you not ? Who ? asked M. Leblanc . 
Parbleu ! cried Thenardier , the little one , the Lark . 
M. Leblanc replied without the slightest apparent emotion I do not know what you mean . 
Go on , nevertheless , ejaculated Thenardier , and he continued to dictate Come immediately , I am in absolute need of thee . 
The person who will deliver this note to thee is instructed to conduct thee to me . 
I am waiting for thee . 
M. Leblanc had written the whole of this . 
Thenardier resumed Ah ! erase come with confidence' that might lead her to suppose that everything was not as it should be , and that distrust is possible . 
M. Leblanc erased the three words . 
Now , pursued Thenardier , sign it . 
It was evident that Thenardier avoided naming the young girl in question . 
He said the Lark , he said the little one , but he did not pronounce her name the precaution of a clever man guarding his secret from his accomplices . 
To mention the name was to deliver the whole affair into their hands , and to tell them more about it than there was any need of their knowing . 
What is your name ? Urbain Fabre , said the prisoner . 
Thenardier , with the movement of a cat , dashed his hand into his pocket and drew out the handkerchief which had been seized on M. Leblanc . 
He looked for the mark on it , and held it close to the candle . 
Well , sign it U. F. The prisoner signed . 
As two hands are required to fold the letter , give it to me , I will fold it . 
That done , Thenardier resumed Address it , Mademoiselle Fabre , at your house . 
I know that you live a long distance from here , near Saint Jacquesdu Haut Pas , because you go to mass there every day , but I don't know in what street . 
I see that you understand your situation . 
As you have not lied about your name , you will not lie about your address . 
The prisoner paused thoughtfully for a moment , then he took the pen and wrote Mademoiselle Fabre , at M. Urbain Fabre's , Rue Saint Dominique D'Enfer , No. . 
Thenardier seized the letter with a sort of feverish convulsion . 
The Thenardier woman hastened to him . 
You know what you have to do . 
There is a carriage at the door . 
Set out at once , and return ditto . 
And addressing the man with the meat axe Since you have taken off your nose screen , accompany the mistress . 
You will get up behind the fiacre . 
You know where you left the team ? Yes , said the man . 
And depositing his axe in a corner , he followed Madame Thenardier . 
I have it in my bosom . 
A minute had not elapsed , when the sound of the cracking of a whip was heard , which rapidly retreated and died away . 
They're going at a fine pace . 
At such a gallop , the bourgeoise will be back inside three quarters of an hour . 
He drew a chair close to the fireplace , folding his arms , and presenting his muddy boots to the brazier . 
My feet are cold ! said he . 
Only five ruffians now remained in the den with Thenardier and the prisoner . 
They were crowded together in one corner like brutes , and remained silent . 
The prisoner had relapsed into his taciturnity . 
A sombre calm had succeeded to the wild uproar which had filled the garret but a few moments before . 
No sound was audible except the quiet breathing of the old drunken man , who was fast asleep . 
Marius waited in a state of anxiety that was augmented by every trifle . 
The enigma was more impenetrable than ever . 
On the other hand , the two letters U. F. were explained they meant Urbain Fabre and Ursule was no longer named Ursule . 
This was what Marius perceived most clearly of all . 
A sort of horrible fascination held him nailed to his post , from which he was observing and commanding this whole scene . 
There he stood , almost incapable of movement or reflection , as though annihilated by the abominable things viewed at such close quarters . 
He waited , in the hope of some incident , no matter of what nature , since he could not collect his thoughts and did not know upon what course to decide . 
In any case , he said , if she is the Lark , I shall see her , for the Thenardier woman is to bring her hither . 
That will be the end , and then I will give my life and my blood if necessary , but I will deliver her ! Nothing shall stop me . 
Nearly half an hour passed in this manner . 
Thenardier seemed to be absorbed in gloomy reflections , the prisoner did not stir . 
Still , Marius fancied that at intervals , and for the last few moments , he had heard a faint , dull noise in the direction of the prisoner . 
All at once , Thenardier addressed the prisoner By the way , Monsieur Fabre , I might as well say it to you at once . 
These few words appeared to be the beginning of an explanation . 
My wife will be back shortly , don't get impatient . 
I think that the Lark really is your daughter , and it seems to me quite natural that you should keep her . 
Only , listen to me a bit . 
My wife will go and hunt her up with your letter . 
I told my wife to dress herself in the way she did , so that your young lady might make no difficulty about following her . 
They will both enter the carriage with my comrade behind . 
Somewhere , outside the barrier , there is a trap harnessed to two very good horses . 
Your young lady will be taken to it . 
She will alight from the fiacre . 
My comrade will enter the other vehicle with her , and my wife will come back here to tell us It's done . 
If you have me arrested , my comrade will give a turn of his thumb to the Lark , that's all . 
The prisoner uttered not a syllable . 
After a pause , Thenardier continued It's very simple , as you see . 
There'll be no harm done unless you wish that there should be harm done . 
I'm telling you how things stand . 
I warn you so that you may be prepared . 
You see that our intentions are not evil . 
Terrible images passed through Marius' mind . 
Marius felt his heart stop beating . 
This frightful situation , which had already lasted above half an hour , was changing its aspect every moment . 
Marius had sufficient strength of mind to review in succession all the most heart breaking conjectures , seeking hope and finding none . 
The tumult of his thoughts contrasted with the funereal silence of the den . 
In the midst of this silence , the door at the bottom of the staircase was heard to open and shut again . 
The prisoner made a movement in his bonds . 
Here's the bourgeoise , said Thenardier . 
She , Ursule or the Lark , he no longer knew what to call her , was safe . 
While his exasperated wife vociferated , Thenardier had seated himself on the table . 
For several minutes he uttered not a word , but swung his right foot , which hung down , and stared at the brazier with an air of savage revery . 
The prisoner was only attached to the bed now by one leg . 
These hideous and delicate products of wonderful art are to jewellers' work what the metaphors of slang are to poetry . 
There are Benvenuto Cellinis in the galleys , just as there are Villons in language . 
This can be screwed together and unscrewed at will it is a box . 
In this box he hides a watch spring , and this watch spring , properly handled , cuts good sized chains and bars of iron . 
The unfortunate convict is supposed to possess merely a sou not at all , he possesses liberty . 
It was a large sou of this sort which , during the subsequent search of the police , was found under the bed near the window . 
They also found a tiny saw of blue steel which would fit the sou . 
As he had not been able to bend down , for fear of betraying himself , he had not cut the bonds of his left leg . 
The ruffians had recovered from their first surprise . 
Be easy , said Bigrenaille to Thenardier . 
He still holds by one leg , and he can't get away . 
I tied that paw for him . 
In the meanwhile , the prisoner had begun to speak You are wretches , but my life is not worth the trouble of defending it . 
At the same moment he extended his arm , and laid the glowing chisel which he held in his left hand by its wooden handle on his bare flesh . 
The crackling of the burning flesh became audible , and the odor peculiar to chambers of torture filled the hovel . 
The prisoner resumed Do what you please with me . 
Seize him ! said Thenardier . 
It was the husband and wife taking counsel together . 
Thenardier walked slowly towards the table , opened the drawer , and took out the knife . 
Marius fretted with the handle of his pistol . 
These two voices continued uninterruptedly that struggle which tormented him to agony . 
Up to that moment he had cherished a vague hope that he should find some means of reconciling these two duties , but nothing within the limits of possibility had presented itself . 
However , the peril was urgent , the last bounds of delay had been reached Thenardier was standing thoughtfully a few paces distant from the prisoner . 
Marius cast a wild glance about him , the last mechanical resource of despair . 
All at once a shudder ran through him . 
At his feet , on the table , a bright ray of light from the full moon illuminated and seemed to point out to him a sheet of paper . 
On this paper he read the following line written that very morning , in large letters , by the eldest of the Thenardier girls THE BOBBIES ARE HERE . 
Thenardier had conquered his last fears or his last scruples , and was advancing on the prisoner . 
Something is falling ! cried the Thenardier woman . 
What is it ? asked her husband . 
The woman darted forward and picked up the bit of plaster . 
She handed it to her husband . 
Where did this come from ? demanded Thenardier . 
Pardie ! ejaculated his wife , where do you suppose it came from ? Through the window , of course . 
I saw it pass , said Bigrenaille . 
Thenardier rapidly unfolded the paper and held it close to the candle . 
Through what ? resumed Bigrenaille . 
Through the window , replied Thenardier . 
Since Ponine has thrown the stone through the window , it indicates that the house is not watched on that side . 
This was the signal like the signal for clearing the decks for action on board ship . 
The prisoner paid no attention to what was going on around him . 
He seemed to be dreaming or praying . 
As soon as the ladder was arranged , Thenardier cried Come ! the bourgeoise first ! And he rushed headlong to the window . 
But just as he was about to throw his leg over , Bigrenaille seized him roughly by the collar . 
Not much , come now , you old dog , after us ! After us ! yelled the ruffians . 
You are children , said Thenardier , we are losing time . 
The police are on our heels . 
Well , said the ruffians , let's draw lots to see who shall go down first . 
He had his hat in his hand , and was holding it out to them with a smile . 
He had begun operations by opening his pockets , and dropping into it the two young girls who were charged with keeping a watch on the approaches to the den . 
But he had only caged Azelma . 
As for Eponine , she was not at her post , she had disappeared , and he had not been able to seize her . 
Then Javert had made a point and had bent his ear to waiting for the signal agreed upon . 
The comings and goings of the fiacres had greatly agitated him . 
It will be remembered that he had Marius' pass key . 
He had arrived just in the nick of time . 
The terrified ruffians flung themselves on the arms which they had abandoned in all the corners at the moment of flight . 
Thenardier had his knife in his fist . 
The Thenardier woman snatched up an enormous paving stone which lay in the angle of the window and served her daughters as an ottoman . 
Javert put on his hat again , and advanced a couple of paces into the room , with arms folded , his cane under one arm , his sword in its sheath . 
Halt there , said he . 
You shall not go out by the window , you shall go through the door . 
There are seven of you , there are fifteen of us . 
Don't let's fall to collaring each other like men of Auvergne . 
Bigrenaille drew out a pistol which he had kept concealed under his blouse , and put it in Thenardier's hand , whispering in the latter's ear It's Javert . 
I don't dare fire at that man . 
Do you dare ? Parbleu ! replied Thenardier . 
Well , then , fire . 
Thenardier took the pistol and aimed at Javert . 
Javert , who was only three paces from him , stared intently at him and contented himself with saying Come now , don't fire . 
Didn't I tell you so ! ejaculated Javert . 
Bigrenaille flung his bludgeon at Javert's feet . 
You're the emperor of the fiends ! I surrender . 
And you ? Javert asked the rest of the ruffians . 
They replied So do we . 
Javert began again calmly That's right , that's good , I said so , you are nice fellows . 
I only ask one thing , said Bigrenaille , and that is , that I may not be denied tobacco while I am in confinement . 
And turning round and calling behind him Come in now ! A squad of policemen , sword in hand , and agents armed with bludgeons and cudgels , rushed in at Javert's summons . 
This throng of men , sparely lighted by the single candle , filled the den with shadows . 
Handcuff them all ! shouted Javert . 
Come on ! cried a voice which was not the voice of a man , but of which no one would ever have said It is a woman's voice . 
The Thenardier woman had entrenched herself in one of the angles of the window , and it was she who had just given vent to this roar . 
The policemen and agents recoiled . 
She had thrown off her shawl . 
All crowded back towards the corridor . 
A broad open space was cleared in the middle of the garret . 
Don't come near me , she cried , or I'll crush you . 
What a grenadier ! ejaculated Javert you've got a beard like a man , mother , but I have claws like a woman . 
And he continued to advance . 
The Thenardier , dishevelled and terrible , set her feet far apart , threw herself backwards , and hurled the paving stone at Javert's head . 
At the same moment , Javert reached the Thenardier couple . 
One of his big hands descended on the woman's shoulder the other on the husband's head . 
The handcuffs ! he shouted . 
The policemen trooped in in force , and in a few seconds Javert's order had been executed . 
The six pinioned ruffians were standing , and still preserved their spectral mien all three besmeared with black , all three masked . 
Keep on your masks , said Javert . 
And passing them in review with a glance of a Frederick II . 
At that moment , he caught sight of the ruffians' prisoner . 
who , ever since the entrance of the police , had not uttered a word , and had held his head down . 
When he had written the first lines , which are formulas that never vary , he raised his eyes Let the gentleman whom these gentlemen bound step forward . 
The policemen glanced round them . 
Well , said Javert , where is he ? The prisoner of the ruffians , M. Leblanc , M. Urbain Fabre , the father of Ursule or the Lark , had disappeared . 
The door was guarded , but the window was not . 
An agent sprang to the opening and looked out . 
He saw no one outside . 
The rope ladder was still shaking . 
The devil ! ejaculated Javert between his teeth , he must have been the most valuable of the lot . 
This lad was pale , thin , clad in rags , with linen trousers in the month of February , and was singing at the top of his voice . 
The old woman straightened herself up in a fury . 
Nasty brat ! she grumbled . 
If I hadn't been bending over , I know well where I would have planted my foot on you . 
The boy was already far away . 
Kisss ! kisss ! he cried . 
Her body was lost in the darkness , and only her head was visible . 
One would have pronounced her a mask of Decrepitude carved out by a light from the night . 
Madame , said he , does not possess that style of beauty which pleases me . 
He then pursued his road , and resumed his song Le roi Coupdesabot S'en allait a la chasse , A la chasse aux corbeaux At the end of these three lines he paused . 
What's this ? What's this ? Lord God ! He's battering the door down ! He's knocking the house down . 
The old woman strained her lungs . 
Is that the way buildings are treated nowadays ? All at once she paused . 
She had recognized the gamin . 
What ! so it's that imp ! Why , it's the old lady , said the lad . 
I have come to see my ancestors . 
Bah ! retorted the boy , where's my father ? At La Force . 
Come , now ! And my mother ? At Saint Lazare . 
Well ! And my sisters ? At the Madelonettes . 
Quand on passait dessous , On lui payait deux sous . 
King Bootkick went a hunting after crows , mounted on two stilts . 
When one passed beneath them , one paid him two sous . 
The end of Volume III . 
THE IDYL IN THE RUE PLUMET AND THE EPIC IN THE RUE SAINT DENIS BOOK FIRST . 
These two years rise like two mountains midway between those which precede and those which follow them . 
They have a revolutionary grandeur . 
Precipices are to be distinguished there . 
These appearances and disappearances have been designated as movement and resistance . 
At intervals , truth , that daylight of the human soul , can be descried shining there . 
This remarkable epoch is decidedly circumscribed and is beginning to be sufficiently distant from us to allow of our grasping the principal lines even at the present day . 
We shall make the attempt . 
These epochs are peculiar and mislead the politicians who desire to convert them to profit . 
In the beginning , the nation asks nothing but repose it thirsts for but one thing , peace it has but one ambition , to be small . 
Which is the translation of remaining tranquil . 
Of great events , great hazards , great adventures , great men , thank God , we have seen enough , we have them heaped higher than our heads . 
We would exchange Caesar for Prusias , and Napoleon for the King of Yvetot . 
Each one demands a bed . 
Devotion which is weary , heroism which has grown old , ambitions which are sated , fortunes which are made , seek , demand , implore , solicit , what ? A shelter . 
They take possession of peace , of tranquillity , of leisure behold , they are content . 
But , at the same time certain facts arise , compel recognition , and knock at the door in their turn . 
In olden times , fouriers were the officials who preceded the Court and allotted the lodgings . 
This , then , is what appears to philosophical politicians At the same time that weary men demand repose , accomplished facts demand guarantees . 
Guarantees are the same to facts that repose is to men . 
This is what England demanded of the Stuarts after the Protector this is what France demanded of the Bourbons after the Empire . 
These guarantees are a necessity of the times . 
Princes grant them , but in reality , it is the force of things which gives them . 
A profound truth , and one useful to know , which the Stuarts did not suspect in and which the Bourbons did not even obtain a glimpse of in . 
Still , the House of Bourbon should have felt , from the displeasure created by the gift , that it did not come from it . 
This house was churlish to the nineteenth century . 
It put on an ill tempered look at every development of the nation . 
To make use of a trivial word , that is to say , of a popular and a true word , it looked glum . 
It thought it possessed strength because the Empire had been carried away before it like a theatrical stage setting . 
It did not perceive that it had , itself , been brought in in the same fashion . 
It did not perceive that it also lay in that hand which had removed Napoleon . 
It thought that it had roots , because it was the past . 
It was mistaken it formed a part of the past , but the whole past was France . 
The roots of French society were not fixed in the Bourbons , but in the nations . 
These obscure and lively roots constituted , not the right of a family , but the history of a people . 
They were everywhere , except under the throne . 
She could get along without the Bourbons she had done without them for two and twenty years there had been a break of continuity they did not suspect the fact . 
And how should they have suspected it , they who fancied that Louis XVII . 
reigned on the th of Thermidor , and that Louis XVIII . 
Never had that pretension here below which is called the right of kings denied to such a point the right from on high . 
A capital error which led this family to lay its hand once more on the guarantees granted in , on the concessions , as it termed them . 
A sad thing ! What it termed its concessions were our conquests what it termed our encroachments were our rights . 
In other words , it denied to the nation that which made it a nation , and to the citizen that which made him a citizen . 
This is the foundation of those famous acts which are called the ordinances of July . 
But , we admit , it had not been absolutely hostile to all forms of progress . 
Great things had been accomplished , with it alongside . 
France free and strong had offered an encouraging spectacle to the other peoples of Europe . 
The Revolution had had the word under Robespierre the cannon had had the word under Bonaparte it was under Louis XVIII . 
and Charles X. that it was the turn of intelligence to have the word . 
The wind ceased , the torch was lighted once more . 
On the lofty heights , the pure light of mind could be seen flickering . 
A magnificent , useful , and charming spectacle . 
The Bourbons were an instrument of civilization which broke in the hands of Providence . 
The fall of the Bourbons was full of grandeur , not on their side , but on the side of the nation . 
They departed , that is all . 
They laid down the crown , and retained no aureole . 
They were worthy , but they were not august . 
They lacked , in a certain measure , the majesty of their misfortune . 
This diminution saddened devoted men who loved their persons , and serious men who honored their race . 
The nation , attacked one morning with weapons , by a sort of royal insurrection , felt itself in the possession of so much force that it did not go into a rage . 
and set him gently on the ground . 
It touched the royal personages only with sadness and precaution . 
The Bourbons carried away with them respect , but not regret . 
As we have just stated , their misfortune was greater than they were . 
They faded out in the horizon . 
The Revolution of July instantly had friends and enemies throughout the entire world . 
The first rushed toward her with joy and enthusiasm , the others turned away , each according to his nature . 
At the first blush , the princes of Europe , the owls of this dawn , shut their eyes , wounded and stupefied , and only opened them to threaten . 
A fright which can be comprehended , a wrath which can be pardoned . 
This strange revolution had hardly produced a shock it had not even paid to vanquished royalty the honor of treating it as an enemy , and of shedding its blood . 
In the eyes of despotic governments , who are always interested in having liberty calumniate itself , the Revolution of July committed the fault of being formidable and of remaining gentle . 
Nothing , however , was attempted or plotted against it . 
The Revolution of July is the triumph of right overthrowing the fact . 
A thing which is full of splendor . 
Hence the brilliancy of the Revolution of , hence , also , its mildness . 
Right triumphant has no need of being violent . 
Right is the just and the true . 
The property of right is to remain eternally beautiful and pure . 
If one desires to learn at one blow , to what degree of hideousness the fact can attain , viewed at the distance of centuries , let him look at Machiavelli . 
Machiavelli is not an evil genius , nor a demon , nor a miserable and cowardly writer he is nothing but the fact . 
And he is not only the Italian fact he is the European fact , the fact of the sixteenth century . 
He seems hideous , and so he is , in the presence of the moral idea of the nineteenth . 
This conflict of right and fact has been going on ever since the origin of society . 
CHAPTER II BADLY SEWED But the task of sages is one thing , the task of clever men is another . 
The Revolution of came to a sudden halt . 
As soon as a revolution has made the coast , the skilful make haste to prepare the shipwreck . 
The skilful in our century have conferred on themselves the title of Statesmen so that this word , statesmen , has ended by becoming somewhat of a slang word . 
It must be borne in mind , in fact , that wherever there is nothing but skill , there is necessarily pettiness . 
To say the skilful amounts to saying the mediocre . 
In the same way , to say statesmen is sometimes equivalent to saying traitors . 
If , then , we are to believe the skilful , revolutions like the Revolution of July are severed arteries a prompt ligature is indispensable . 
The right , too grandly proclaimed , is shaken . 
Also , right once firmly fixed , the state must be strengthened . 
Liberty once assured , attention must be directed to power . 
Here the sages are not , as yet , separated from the skilful , but they begin to be distrustful . 
In this way , say they , peace , that is to say , time to dress our wounds , and to repair the house , can be had after a revolution . 
The dynasty conceals the scaffolding and covers the ambulance . 
Now , it is not always easy to procure a dynasty . 
If it is absolutely necessary , the first man of genius or even the first man of fortune who comes to hand suffices for the manufacturing of a king . 
You have , in the first case , Napoleon in the second , Iturbide . 
But the first family that comes to hand does not suffice to make a dynasty . 
There is necessarily required a certain modicum of antiquity in a race , and the wrinkle of the centuries cannot be improvised . 
What are the qualities of a dynasty ? It should be national that is to say , revolutionary at a distance , not through acts committed , but by reason of ideas accepted . 
It should be composed of past and be historic be composed of future and be sympathetic . 
Royal houses resemble those Indian fig trees , each branch of which , bending over to the earth , takes root and becomes a fig tree itself . 
Each branch may become a dynasty . 
On the sole condition that it shall bend down to the people . 
Such is the theory of the skilful . 
practised this theory , already applied to England by . 
is a revolution arrested midway . 
Half of progress , quasi right . 
Now , logic knows not the almost , absolutely as the sun knows not the candle . 
Who arrests revolutions half way ? The bourgeoisie ? Why ? Because the bourgeoisie is interest which has reached satisfaction . 
Yesterday it was appetite , to day it is plenitude , to morrow it will be satiety . 
The phenomenon of after Napoleon was reproduced in after Charles X. The attempt has been made , and wrongly , to make a class of the bourgeoisie . 
The bourgeoisie is simply the contented portion of the people . 
The bourgeois is the man who now has time to sit down . 
A chair is not a caste . 
But through a desire to sit down too soon , one may arrest the very march of the human race . 
This has often been the fault of the bourgeoisie . 
One is not a class because one has committed a fault . 
Selfishness is not one of the divisions of the social order . 
Moreover , we must be just to selfishness . 
The halt is the restoration of forces it is repose armed and on the alert it is the accomplished fact which posts sentinels and holds itself on its guard . 
The halt presupposes the combat of yesterday and the combat of to morrow . 
It is the partition between and . 
What we here call combat may also be designated as progress . 
The bourgeoisie then , as well as the statesmen , required a man who should express this word Halt . 
A composite individuality , signifying revolution and signifying stability , in other terms , strengthening the present by the evident compatibility of the past with the future . 
This man was already found . 
His name was Louis Philippe d'Orleans . 
The made Louis Philippe King . 
He called it the best of republics . 
The town hall of Paris took the place of the Cathedral of Rheims . 
This substitution of a half throne for a whole throne was the work of . 
When the skilful had finished , the immense vice of their solution became apparent . 
All this had been accomplished outside the bounds of absolute right . 
Absolute right cried I protest ! then , terrible to say , it retired into the darkness . 
CHAPTER III LOUIS PHILIPPE Revolutions have a terrible arm and a happy hand , they strike firmly and choose well . 
Their eclipse is never an abdication . 
Nevertheless , let us not boast too loudly revolutions also may be deceived , and grave errors have been seen . 
, in its deviation , had good luck . 
In the establishment which entitled itself order after the revolution had been cut short , the King amounted to more than royalty . 
Louis Philippe was a rare man . 
Louis Philippe had been handsome , and in his old age he remained graceful not always approved by the nation , he always was so by the masses he pleased . 
He had that gift of charming . 
He wore the uniform of the national guard , like Charles X. , and the ribbon of the Legion of Honor , like Napoleon . 
He went a little to chapel , not at all to the chase , never to the opera . 
Incorruptible by sacristans , by whippers in , by ballet dancers this made a part of his bourgeois popularity . 
He went out with his umbrella under his arm , and this umbrella long formed a part of his aureole . 
The Royalists jeered at this ridiculous king , the first who had ever shed blood with the object of healing . 
As will be seen , the proper deduction having been made , the King's charge is decreased . 
This is his great fault he was modest in the name of France . 
Whence arises this fault ? We will state it . 
Moreover , if we deduct the public duties which require to be fulfilled first of all , that deep tenderness of Louis Philippe towards his family was deserved by the family . 
That domestic group was worthy of admiration . 
Virtues there dwelt side by side with talents . 
One of Louis Philippe's daughters , Marie d'Orleans , placed the name of her race among artists , as Charles d'Orleans had placed it among poets . 
She made of her soul a marble which she named Jeanne d'Arc . 
Two of Louis Philippe's daughters elicited from Metternich this eulogium They are young people such as are rarely seen , and princes such as are never seen . 
This , without any dissimulation , and also without any exaggeration , is the truth about Louis Philippe . 
Louis Philippe is made man . 
Moreover , he had in his favor that great recommendation to the throne , exile . 
He had been proscribed , a wanderer , poor . 
He had lived by his own labor . 
In Switzerland , this heir to the richest princely domains in France had sold an old horse in order to obtain bread . 
At Reichenau , he gave lessons in mathematics , while his sister Adelaide did wool work and sewed . 
These souvenirs connected with a king rendered the bourgeoisie enthusiastic . 
He had , with his own hands , demolished the iron cage of Mont Saint Michel , built by Louis XI , and used by Louis XV . 
, so well named that poor tyrant . 
The trace left in him by the Revolution was prodigious . 
Its memory was like a living imprint of those great years , minute by minute . 
Louis Philippe was a king of the broad daylight . 
While he reigned the press was free , the tribune was free , conscience and speech were free . 
The laws of September are open to sight . 
Although fully aware of the gnawing power of light on privileges , he left his throne exposed to the light . 
History will do justice to him for this loyalty . 
Louis Philippe , like all historical men who have passed from the scene , is to day put on his trial by the human conscience . 
His case is , as yet , only in the lower court . 
What is there against him ? That throne . 
Take away Louis Philippe the king , there remains the man . 
And the man is good . 
He is good at times even to the point of being admirable . 
Sometimes the pile of sentences covered his table he examined them all it was anguish to him to abandon these miserable , condemned heads . 
One day , he said to the same witness to whom we have recently referred I won seven last night . 
During the early years of his reign , the death penalty was as good as abolished , and the erection of a scaffold was a violence committed against the King . 
Louis Philippe annotated Beccaria with his own hand . 
Louis Philippe was as gentle as Louis IX . 
and as kindly as Henri IV . 
Now , to our mind , in history , where kindness is the rarest of pearls , the man who is kindly almost takes precedence of the man who is great . 
He had been born a Prince , and he believed himself to have been elected King . 
Hence his possession was in good faith . 
A clash of principles resembles a clash of elements . 
Let us , then , impute to the fatality of things alone these formidable collisions . 
Whatever the nature of these tempests may be , human irresponsibility is mingled with them . 
Let us complete this exposition . 
The government of led a hard life immediately . 
Born yesterday , it was obliged to fight to day . 
Hardly installed , it was already everywhere conscious of vague movements of traction on the apparatus of July so recently laid , and so lacking in solidity . 
Resistance was born on the morrow perhaps even , it was born on the preceding evening . 
From month to month the hostility increased , and from being concealed it became patent . 
The Revolution of July , which gained but little acceptance outside of France by kings , had been diversely interpreted in France , as we have said . 
God delivers over to men his visible will in events , an obscure text written in a mysterious tongue . 
Men immediately make translations of it translations hasty , incorrect , full of errors , of gaps , and of nonsense . 
Very few minds comprehend the divine language . 
Power itself is often a faction . 
There are , in revolutions , swimmers who go against the current they are the old parties . 
For in these revolutions , the one who revolts is not the people it is the king . 
Revolution is precisely the contrary of revolt . 
Revolutions spring not from an accident , but from necessity . 
A revolution is a return from the fictitious to the real . 
It is because it must be that it is . 
None the less did the old legitimist parties assail the Revolution of with all the vehemence which arises from false reasoning . 
They strike it cleverly in its vulnerable spot , in default of a cuirass , in its lack of logic they attacked this revolution in its royalty . 
They shouted to it Revolution , why this king ? Factions are blind men who aim correctly . 
This cry was uttered equally by the republicans . 
But coming from them , this cry was logical . 
What was blindness in the legitimists was clearness of vision in the democrats . 
The enraged democracy reproached it with this . 
Between the attack of the past and the attack of the future , the establishment of July struggled . 
It represented the minute at loggerheads on the one hand with the monarchical centuries , on the other hand with eternal right . 
In addition , and beside all this , as it was no longer revolution and had become a monarchy , was obliged to take precedence of all Europe . 
To keep the peace , was an increase of complication . 
A harmony established contrary to sense is often more onerous than a war . 
The Royalty of July reared up , in spite of the fact that it caught it in the harness of European cabinets . 
Metternich would gladly have put it in kicking straps . 
Pushed on in France by progress , it pushed on the monarchies , those loiterers in Europe . 
After having been towed , it undertook to tow . 
Outside of political parties properly so called , another movement became manifest . 
Philosophical fermentation replied to democratic fermentation . 
The elect felt troubled as well as the masses in another manner , but quite as much . 
Thinkers meditated , while the soil , that is to say , the people , traversed by revolutionary currents , trembled under them with indescribably vague epileptic shocks . 
This tranquillity was not the least beautiful spectacle of this agitated epoch . 
These men left to political parties the question of rights , they occupied themselves with the question of happiness . 
The well being of man , that was what they wanted to extract from society . 
They raised material questions , questions of agriculture , of industry , of commerce , almost to the dignity of a religion . 
From the question of the scaffold to the question of war , their works embraced everything . 
To the rights of man , as proclaimed by the French Revolution , they added the rights of woman and the rights of the child . 
We confine ourselves to indicating them . 
All the problems that the socialists proposed to themselves , cosmogonic visions , revery and mysticism being cast aside , can be reduced to two principal problems . 
First problem To produce wealth . 
Second problem To share it . 
The first problem contains the question of work . 
The second contains the question of salary . 
In the first problem the employment of forces is in question . 
In the second , the distribution of enjoyment . 
From the proper employment of forces results public power . 
From a good distribution of enjoyments results individual happiness . 
By a good distribution , not an equal but an equitable distribution must be understood . 
From these two things combined , the public power without , individual happiness within , results social prosperity . 
Social prosperity means the man happy , the citizen free , the nation great . 
England solves the first of these two problems . 
She creates wealth admirably , she divides it badly . 
This solution which is complete on one side only leads her fatally to two extremes monstrous opulence , monstrous wretchedness . 
All enjoyments for some , all privations for the rest , that is to say , for the people privilege , exception , monopoly , feudalism , born from toil itself . 
A false and dangerous situation , which sates public power or private misery , which sets the roots of the State in the sufferings of the individual . 
A badly constituted grandeur in which are combined all the material elements and into which no moral element enters . 
Communism and agrarian law think that they solve the second problem . 
Equal partition abolishes emulation and consequently labor . 
It is a partition made by the butcher , which kills that which it divides . 
It is therefore impossible to pause over these pretended solutions . 
Slaying wealth is not the same thing as dividing it . 
The two problems require to be solved together , to be well solved . 
The two problems must be combined and made but one . 
Solve only the first of the two problems you will be Venice , you will be England . 
You will have , like Venice , an artificial power , or , like England , a material power you will be the wicked rich man . 
You will die by an act of violence , as Venice died , or by bankruptcy , as England will fall . 
And the world will allow to die and fall all that is merely selfishness , all that does not represent for the human race either a virtue or an idea . 
The nations always have our respect and our sympathy . 
Venice , as a people , will live again England , the aristocracy , will fall , but England , the nation , is immortal . 
That said , we continue . 
This is what socialism said outside and above a few sects which have gone astray that is what it sought in facts , that is what it sketched out in minds . 
He felt under his feet a formidable disaggregation , which was not , nevertheless , a reduction to dust , France being more France than ever . 
Piles of shadows covered the horizon . 
A strange shade , gradually drawing nearer , extended little by little over men , over things , over ideas a shade which came from wraths and systems . 
Everything which had been hastily stifled was moving and fermenting . 
At times the conscience of the honest man resumed its breathing , so great was the discomfort of that air in which sophisms were intermingled with truths . 
Spirits trembled in the social anxiety like leaves at the approach of a storm . 
The electric tension was such that at certain instants , the first comer , a stranger , brought light . 
Then the twilight obscurity closed in again . 
At intervals , deep and dull mutterings allowed a judgment to be formed as to the quantity of thunder contained by the cloud . 
Twenty months had barely elapsed since the Revolution of July , the year had opened with an aspect of something impending and threatening . 
CHAPTER V FACTS WHENCE HISTORY SPRINGS AND WHICH HISTORY IGNORES Towards the end of April , everything had become aggravated . 
The fermentation entered the boiling state . 
Ever since , petty partial revolts had been going on here and there , which were quickly suppressed , but ever bursting forth afresh , the sign of a vast underlying conflagration . 
Something terrible was in preparation . 
Glimpses could be caught of the features still indistinct and imperfectly lighted , of a possible revolution . 
France kept an eye on Paris Paris kept an eye on the Faubourg Saint Antoine . 
The Faubourg Saint Antoine , which was in a dull glow , was beginning its ebullition . 
The wine shops of the Rue de Charonne were , although the union of the two epithets seems singular when applied to wine shops , grave and stormy . 
The government was there purely and simply called in question . 
There people publicly discussed the question of fighting or of keeping quiet . 
They made the initiated take oaths to render service to himself as well as to the fathers of families . 
In the tap rooms , subversive pamphlets were read . 
They treated the government with contempt , says a secret report of that time . 
Words like the following could be heard there I don't know the names of the leaders . 
We folks shall not know the day until two hours beforehand . 
One workman said There are three hundred of us , let each contribute ten sous , that will make one hundred and fifty francs with which to procure powder and shot . 
Another said I don't ask for six months , I don't ask for even two . 
In less than a fortnight we shall be parallel with the government . 
With twenty five thousand men we can face them . 
Another said I don't sleep at night , because I make cartridges all night . 
They never stayed more than ten minutes . 
Significant remarks were exchanged in a low tone The plot is ripe , the matter is arranged . 
It was murmured by all who were there , to borrow the very expression of one of those who were present . 
It is not easy to understand what they could conceal after what they said . 
These reunions were sometimes periodical . 
At certain ones of them , there were never more than eight or ten persons present , and they were always the same . 
In others , any one entered who wished , and the room was so full that they were forced to stand . 
Some went thither through enthusiasm and passion others because it was on their way to their work . 
As during the Revolution , there were patriotic women in some of these wine shops who embraced new comers . 
Other expressive facts came to light . 
A man would enter a shop , drink , and go his way with the remark Wine merchant , the revolution will pay what is due to you . 
Revolutionary agents were appointed in a wine shop facing the Rue de Charonne . 
The balloting was carried on in their caps . 
Workingmen met at the house of a fencing master who gave lessons in the Rue de Cotte . 
There there was a trophy of arms formed of wooden broadswords , canes , clubs , and foils . 
One day , the buttons were removed from the foils . 
A workman said There are twenty five of us , but they don't count on me , because I am looked upon as a machine . 
Later on , that machine became Quenisset . 
The indefinite things which were brewing gradually acquired a strange and indescribable notoriety . 
A woman sweeping off her doorsteps said to another woman For a long time , there has been a strong force busy making cartridges . 
In the open street , proclamation could be seen addressed to the National Guard in the departments . 
One of these proclamations was signed Burtot , wine merchant . 
Groups formed around him , and applauded . 
The passages which touched the crowd most deeply were collected and noted down . 
Our doctrines are trammelled , our proclamations torn , our bill stickers are spied upon and thrown into prison . 
The breakdown which has recently taken place in cottons has converted to us many mediums . 
The future of nations is being worked out in our obscure ranks . 
Here are the fixed terms action or reaction , revolution or counter revolution . 
For , at our epoch , we no longer believe either in inertia or in immobility . 
For the people against the people , that is the question . 
On the day when we cease to suit you , break us , but up to that day , help us to march on . 
All this in broad daylight . 
Other deeds , more audacious still , were suspicious in the eyes of the people by reason of their very audacity . 
Among other things , this man said Down with property ! The opposition of the left is cowardly and treacherous . 
The republicans are beasts with feathers . 
Distrust the republicans , citizens of the laboring classes . 
Silence , citizen spy ! cried an artisan . 
This shout put an end to the discourse . 
I know you very well , however . 
And the man added Don't be alarmed , I am an agent of the committee . 
You are suspected of not being quite faithful . 
You know that if you reveal anything , there is an eye fixed on you . 
Then he shook hands with the workingman and went away , saying We shall meet again soon . 
The police , who were on the alert , collected singular dialogues , not only in the wine shops , but in the street . 
Get yourself received very soon , said a weaver to a cabinet maker . 
Why ? There is going to be a shot to fire . 
Two ragged pedestrians exchanged these remarkable replies , fraught with evident Jacquerie Who governs us ? M. Philippe . 
No , it is the bourgeoisie . 
The reader is mistaken if he thinks that we take the word Jacquerie in a bad sense . 
The Jacques were the poor . 
On another occasion two men were heard to say to each other as they passed by We have a good plan of attack . 
Who was the he ? Menacing obscurity . 
The principal leaders , as they said in the faubourg , held themselves apart . 
It was supposed that they met for consultation in a wine shop near the point Saint Eustache . 
A certain Aug , chief of the Society aid for tailors , Rue Mondetour , had the reputation of serving as intermediary central between the leaders and the Faubourg Saint Antoine . 
There was nothing but words , transparent but vague sometimes idle reports , rumors , hearsay . 
The section owns no arms . 
After so doing you will tear it up . 
The men admitted will do the same when you have transmitted their orders to them . 
Under each capital letter were inscribed names followed by very characteristic notes . 
foil , pistol , pound of powder . 
Aubry the Butcher ? J. J. R. Caius Gracchus . 
Tilly , crier of the Populaire . 
The honest bourgeois into whose hands this list fell knew its significance . 
To day , when all these facts which were obscure are nothing more than history , we may publish them . 
It should be added , that the foundation of the Society of the Rights of Man seems to have been posterior to the date when this paper was found . 
Perhaps this was only a rough draft . 
Still , according to all the remarks and the words , according to written notes , material facts begin to make their appearance . 
The report of the seizure stated that the drawer exhaled a strong smell of powder . 
A mason returning from his day's work , left behind him a little package on a bench near the bridge of Austerlitz . 
This package was taken to the police station . 
It was opened , and in it were found two printed dialogues , signed Lahautiere , a song entitled Workmen , band together , and a tin box full of cartridges . 
One artisan drinking with a comrade made the latter feel him to see how warm he was the other man felt a pistol under his waistcoat . 
One drew a pistol from beneath his blouse and handed it to the other . 
As he was handing it to him , he noticed that the perspiration of his chest had made the powder damp . 
He primed the pistol and added more powder to what was already in the pan . 
Then the two men parted . 
A game of ninepins , in which one side of the ball is smaller than the other , so that it does not roll straight , but describes a curve on the ground . 
A certain Gallais , afterwards killed in the Rue Beaubourg in the affair of April , boasted of having in his house seven hundred cartridges and twenty four flints . 
The government one day received a warning that arms and two hundred thousand cartridges had just been distributed in the faubourg . 
On the following week thirty thousand cartridges were distributed . 
The remarkable point about it was , that the police were not able to seize a single one . 
An intercepted letter read The day is not far distant when , within four hours by the clock , eighty thousand patriots will be under arms . 
All this fermentation was public , one might almost say tranquil . 
The approaching insurrection was preparing its storm calmly in the face of the government . 
No singularity was lacking to this still subterranean crisis , which was already perceptible . 
The bourgeois talked peaceably to the working classes of what was in preparation . 
A month ago , there were fifteen thousand of you , now there are twenty five thousand . 
He offered his gun , and a neighbor offered a small pistol which he was willing to sell for seven francs . 
Moreover , the revolutionary fever was growing . 
Not a point in Paris nor in France was exempt from it . 
The artery was beating everywhere . 
Like those membranes which arise from certain inflammations and form in the human body , the network of secret societies began to spread all over the country . 
The Society of the Rights of Man engendered the Society of Action . 
These were impatient individuals who broke away and hastened ahead . 
Other associations sought to recruit themselves from the great mother societies . 
The members of sections complained that they were torn asunder . 
Thus , the Gallic Society , and the committee of organization of the Municipalities . 
Thus the associations for the liberty of the press , for individual liberty , for the instruction of the people against indirect taxes . 
Then the Society of Equal Workingmen which was divided into three fractions , the levellers , the communists , the reformers . 
Creation where precaution is combined with audacity and which seemed stamped with the genius of Venice . 
The central committee , which was at the head , had two arms , the Society of Action , and the Army of the Bastilles . 
A legitimist association , the Chevaliers of Fidelity , stirred about among these the republican affiliations . 
It was denounced and repudiated there . 
All had a revolutionary society which was called the Cougourde . 
We have already mentioned this word . 
In Paris , the Faubourg Saint Marceau kept up an equal buzzing with the Faubourg Saint Antoine , and the schools were no less moved than the faubourgs . 
A cafe in the Rue Saint Hyacinthe and the wine shop of the Seven Billiards , Rue des Mathurins Saint Jacques , served as rallying points for the students . 
These same young men assembled also , as we have stated already , in a restaurant wine shop of the Rue Mondetour which was called Corinthe . 
At whose house ? In the street . 
What sections were there ? Only one . 
Which ? The Manuel section . 
Who was its leader ? I. You are too young to have decided alone upon the bold course of attacking the government . 
Where did your instructions come from ? From the central committee . 
The army was mined at the same time as the population , as was proved subsequently by the operations of Beford , Luneville , and Epinard . 
They counted on the fifty second regiment , on the fifth , on the eighth , on the thirty seventh , and on the twentieth light cavalry . 
In Burgundy and in the southern towns they planted the liberty tree that is to say , a pole surmounted by a red cap . 
The Faubourg Saint Antoine , more than any other group of the population , as we stated in the beginning , accentuated this situation and made it felt . 
That was the sore point . 
This old faubourg , peopled like an ant hill , laborious , courageous , and angry as a hive of bees , was quivering with expectation and with the desire for a tumult . 
Everything was in a state of agitation there , without any interruption , however , of the regular work . 
It is impossible to convey an idea of this lively yet sombre physiognomy . 
In this faubourg exists poignant distress hidden under attic roofs there also exist rare and ardent minds . 
It is particularly in the matter of distress and intelligence that it is dangerous to have extremes meet . 
In times of revolution misery is both cause and effect . 
The blow which it deals rebounds upon it . 
The wine shops of the Faubourg Antoine , which have been more than once drawn in the sketches which the reader has just perused , possess historical notoriety . 
In troublous times people grow intoxicated there more on words than on wine . 
A sort of prophetic spirit and an afflatus of the future circulates there , swelling hearts and enlarging souls . 
The Faubourg Saint Antoine is a reservoir of people . 
Revolutionary agitations create fissures there , through which trickles the popular sovereignty . 
This sovereignty may do evil it can be mistaken like any other but , even when led astray , it remains great . 
We may say of it as of the blind cyclops , Ingens . 
Let us explain this word . 
They were savages , yes but the savages of civilization . 
They proclaimed right furiously they were desirous , if only with fear and trembling , to force the human race to paradise . 
They seemed barbarians , and they were saviours . 
They demanded light with the mask of night . 
For our part , if we were forced to make a choice between the barbarians of civilization and the civilized men of barbarism , we should choose the barbarians . 
But , thank Heaven , still another choice is possible . 
No perpendicular fall is necessary , in front any more than in the rear . 
We desire progress with a gentle slope . 
God takes care of that . 
God's whole policy consists in rendering slopes less steep . 
CHAPTER VI ENJOLRAS AND HIS LIEUTENANTS It was about this epoch that Enjolras , in view of a possible catastrophe , instituted a kind of mysterious census . 
All were present at a secret meeting at the Cafe Musain . 
Enjolras said , mixing his words with a few half enigmatical but significant metaphors It is proper that we should know where we stand and on whom we may count . 
If combatants are required , they must be provided . 
It can do no harm to have something with which to strike . 
Passers by always have more chance of being gored when there are bulls on the road than when there are none . 
Let us , therefore , reckon a little on the herd . 
How many of us are there ? There is no question of postponing this task until to morrow . 
Revolutionists should always be hurried progress has no time to lose . 
Let us mistrust the unexpected . 
Let us not be caught unprepared . 
We must go over all the seams that we have made and see whether they hold fast . 
This business ought to be concluded to day . 
Courfeyrac , you will see the polytechnic students . 
It is their day to go out . 
Feuilly , you will see those of the Glaciere , will you not ? Combeferre has promised me to go to Picpus . 
There is a perfect swarm and an excellent one there . 
Bahorel will visit the Estrapade . 
Prouvaire , the masons are growing lukewarm you will bring us news from the lodge of the Rue de Grenelle Saint Honore . 
Joly will go to Dupuytren's clinical lecture , and feel the pulse of the medical school . 
Bossuet will take a little turn in the court and talk with the young law licentiates . 
I will take charge of the Cougourde myself . 
That arranges everything , said Courfeyrac . 
No. What else is there ? A very important thing . 
What is that ? asked Courfeyrac . 
The Barriere du Maine , replied Enjolras . 
Enjolras remained for a moment as though absorbed in reflection , then he resumed At the Barriere du Maine there are marble workers , painters , and journeymen in the studios of sculptors . 
They are an enthusiastic family , but liable to cool off . 
I don't know what has been the matter with them for some time past . 
They are thinking of something else . 
They pass their time playing dominoes . 
There is urgent need that some one should go and talk with them a little , but with firmness . 
They are to be found there between twelve and one o'clock . 
Those ashes must be fanned into a glow . 
For that errand I had counted on that abstracted Marius , who is a good fellow on the whole , but he no longer comes to us . 
I need some one for the Barriere du Maine . 
What about me ? said Grantaire . 
You do not believe in everything . 
Grantaire will you do me a service ? Anything . 
Well , don't meddle with our affairs . 
Sleep yourself sober from your absinthe . 
You are an ingrate , Enjolras . 
I am capable of that . 
My shoes are capable of that . 
Do you know anything of those comrades who meet at Richefeu's ? Not much . 
We only address each other as thou . 
What will you say to them ? I will speak to them of Robespierre , pardi ! Of Danton . 
You ? I. But I don't receive justice . 
When I set about it , I am terrible . 
I have read Prudhomme , I know the Social Contract , I know my constitution of the year Two by heart . 
The liberty of one citizen ends where the liberty of another citizen begins . 
Do you take me for a brute ? I have an old bank bill of the Republic in my drawer . 
The Rights of Man , the sovereignty of the people , sapristi ! I am even a bit of a Hebertist . 
I can talk the most superb twaddle for six hours by the clock , watch in hand . 
Be serious , said Enjolras . 
I am wild , replied Grantaire . 
Enjolras meditated for a few moments , and made the gesture of a man who has taken a resolution . 
Grantaire , he said gravely , I consent to try you . 
You shall go to the Barriere du Maine . 
Grantaire lived in furnished lodgings very near the Cafe Musain . 
He went out , and five minutes later he returned . 
He had gone home to put on a Robespierre waistcoat . 
Red , said he as he entered , and he looked intently at Enjolras . 
Then , with the palm of his energetic hand , he laid the two scarlet points of the waistcoat across his breast . 
And stepping up to Enjolras , he whispered in his ear Be easy . 
He jammed his hat on resolutely and departed . 
A quarter of an hour later , the back room of the Cafe Musain was deserted . 
All the friends of the A B C were gone , each in his own direction , each to his own task . 
Enjolras , who had reserved the Cougourde of Aix for himself , was the last to leave . 
As Enjolras walked towards this place , he passed the whole situation in review in his own mind . 
The gravity of events was self evident . 
When facts , the premonitory symptoms of latent social malady , move heavily , the slightest complication stops and entangles them . 
A phenomenon whence arises ruin and new births . 
Enjolras descried a luminous uplifting beneath the gloomy skirts of the future . 
Who knows ? Perhaps the moment was at hand . 
The furnace was being heated . 
He had at that moment a powder train of friends scattered all over Paris . 
Surely , the result would answer to the effort . 
This made him think of Grantaire . 
Hold , said he to himself , the Barriere du Maine will not take me far out of my way . 
What if I were to go on as far as Richefeu's ? Let us have a look at what Grantaire is about , and see how he is getting on . 
One o'clock was striking from the Vaugirard steeple when Enjolras reached the Richefeu smoking room . 
A voice broke forth from the mist of smoke , interrupted by another voice . 
It was Grantaire holding a dialogue with an adversary . 
Grantaire was sitting opposite another figure , at a marble Saint Anne table , strewn with grains of bran and dotted with dominos . 
He was hammering the table with his fist , and this is what Enjolras heard Double six . 
The pig ! I have no more . 
I have made an enormous mistake . 
That makes me twenty two . 
Thoughtfully , Twenty two ! You weren't expecting that double six . 
If I had placed it at the beginning , the whole play would have been changed . 
One ! Well , five . 
It was your play , I believe ? Yes . 
What luck he has ! Ah ! You are lucky ! Long revery . 
Plague take it ! BOOK SECOND . 
It was only nine o'clock in the evening . 
Marius betook himself to Courfeyrac . 
Marius said to Courfeyrac I have come to sleep with you . 
Courfeyrac dragged a mattress off his bed , which was furnished with two , spread it out on the floor , and said There . 
The second was , that he did not wish to figure in the lawsuit which would insue in all probability , and be brought in to testify against Thenardier . 
A month passed , then another . 
Marius was still with Courfeyrac . 
He had learned from a young licentiate in law , an habitual frequenter of the courts , that Thenardier was in close confinement . 
Every Monday , Marius had five francs handed in to the clerk's office of La Force for Thenardier . 
As Marius had no longer any money , he borrowed the five francs from Courfeyrac . 
It was the first time in his life that he had ever borrowed money . 
These periodical five francs were a double riddle to Courfeyrac who lent and to Thenardier who received them . 
To whom can they go ? thought Courfeyrac . 
Whence can this come to me ? Thenardier asked himself . 
Moreover , Marius was heart broken . 
Everything had plunged through a trap door once more . 
He no longer saw anything before him his life was again buried in mystery where he wandered fumblingly . 
Not a spark of certainty and truth had been emitted even in the most terrible of collisions . 
He no longer knew even the name that he thought he knew . 
It certainly was not Ursule . 
And the Lark was a nickname . 
It now seemed probable that that workingman and M. Leblanc were one and the same person . 
So he disguised himself ? That man had his heroic and his equivocal sides . 
These formed so many insoluble problems . 
All this , it is true , detracted nothing from the angelic charms of the young girl of the Luxembourg . 
Heart rending distress Marius bore a passion in his heart , and night over his eyes . 
He was thrust onward , he was drawn , and he could not stir . 
All had vanished , save love . 
Of love itself he had lost the instincts and the sudden illuminations . 
Ordinarily , this flame which burns us lights us also a little , and casts some useful gleams without . 
But Marius no longer even heard these mute counsels of passion . 
His whole life was now summed up in two words absolute uncertainty within an impenetrable fog . 
To see her once again he still aspired to this , but he no longer expected it . 
To crown all , his poverty had returned . 
He felt that icy breath close to him , on his heels . 
In the midst of his torments , and long before this , he had discontinued his work , and nothing is more dangerous than discontinued work it is a habit which vanishes . 
A habit which is easy to get rid of , and difficult to take up again . 
A certain amount of dreaming is good , like a narcotic in discreet doses . 
But too much dreaming sinks and drowns . 
Error ! Thought is the toil of the intelligence , revery its voluptuousness . 
To replace thought with revery is to confound a poison with a food . 
Marius had begun in that way , as the reader will remember . 
Passion had supervened and had finished the work of precipitating him into chimaeras without object or bottom . 
One no longer emerges from one's self except for the purpose of going off to dream . 
And , in proportion as labor diminishes , needs increase . 
Man , in a state of revery , is generally prodigal and slack the unstrung mind cannot hold life within close bounds . 
There is , in that mode of life , good mingled with evil , for if enervation is baleful , generosity is good and healthful . 
But the poor man who is generous and noble , and who does not work , is lost . 
Resources are exhausted , needs crop up . 
By dint of going outdoors to think , the day comes when one goes out to throw one's self in the water . 
Excess of revery breeds men like Escousse and Lebras . 
Marius was descending this declivity at a slow pace , with his eyes fixed on the girl whom he no longer saw . 
What we have just written seems strange , and yet it is true . 
She that was Marius' whole thought . 
This illusion , at which he shook his head a moment later , was sufficient , nevertheless , to throw beams , which at times resembled hope , into his soul . 
He called this writing to her . 
It must not be supposed that his reason was deranged . 
He had lost the faculty of working and of moving firmly towards any fixed goal , but he was endowed with more clear sightedness and rectitude than ever . 
His judgment , which was almost wholly disassociated from hope , held itself aloof and soared on high . 
In this state of mind nothing escaped him , nothing deceived him , and every moment he was discovering the foundation of life , of humanity , and of destiny . 
The soul which loves and suffers is in a state of sublimity . 
However , day followed day , and nothing new presented itself . 
It merely seemed to him , that the sombre space which still remained to be traversed by him was growing shorter with every instant . 
He thought that he already distinctly perceived the brink of the bottomless abyss . 
As the place is worth looking at , no one goes thither . 
Hardly one cart or wagoner passes in a quarter of an hour . 
It chanced that Marius' solitary strolls led him to this plot of ground , near the water . 
That day , there was a rarity on the boulevard , a passer by . 
Marius , vaguely impressed with the almost savage beauty of the place , asked this passer by What is the name of this spot ? The person replied It is the Lark's meadow . 
And he added It was here that Ulbach killed the shepherdess of Ivry . 
But after the word Lark Marius heard nothing more . 
These sudden congealments in the state of revery , which a single word suffices to evoke , do occur . 
The entire thought is abruptly condensed around an idea , and it is no longer capable of perceiving anything else . 
The Lark was the appellation which had replaced Ursule in the depths of Marius' melancholy . 
Stop , said he with a sort of unreasoning stupor peculiar to these mysterious asides , this is her meadow . 
I shall know where she lives now . 
It was absurd , but irresistible . 
And every day he returned to that meadow of the Lark . 
CHAPTER II EMBRYONIC FORMATION OF CRIMES IN THE INCUBATION OF PRISONS Javert's triumph in the Gorbeau hovel seemed complete , but had not been so . 
In the first place , and this constituted the principal anxiety , Javert had not taken the prisoner prisoner . 
And then , Montparnasse had escaped Javert . 
Another opportunity of laying hands on that devil's dandy must be waited for . 
It was well that he did so . 
As for Eponine , Javert had caused her to be seized a mediocre consolation . 
Eponine had joined Azelma at Les Madelonettes . 
And finally , on the way from the Gorbeau house to La Force , one of the principal prisoners , Claquesous , had been lost . 
It was not known how this had been effected , the police agents and the sergeants could not understand it at all . 
Either the fairies or the police had had a hand in it . 
It is an excellent thing for ruffianism and an admirable thing for the police to be on such intimate juggling terms with the night . 
These double edged rascals do exist . 
However that may be , Claquesous had gone astray and was not found again . 
Javert appeared to be more irritated than amazed at this . 
As for Marius , that booby of a lawyer , who had probably become frightened , and whose name Javert had forgotten , Javert attached very little importance to him . 
Moreover , a lawyer can be hunted up at any time . 
But was he a lawyer after all ? The investigation had begun . 
The magistrate had thought it advisable not to put one of these men of the band of Patron Minette in close confinement , in the hope that he would chatter . 
This man was Brujon , the long haired man of the Rue du Petit Banquier . 
He had been let loose in the Charlemagne courtyard , and the eyes of the watchers were fixed on him . 
This name of Brujon is one of the souvenirs of La Force . 
The Brujon of was the father of the Brujon of . 
The latter , of whom the reader caught but a glimpse at the Gorbeau house , was a very cunning and very adroit young spark , with a bewildered and plaintive air . 
It was in consequence of this plaintive air that the magistrate had released him , thinking him more useful in the Charlemagne yard than in close confinement . 
Robbers do not interrupt their profession because they are in the hands of justice . 
They do not let themselves be put out by such a trifle as that . 
To be in prison for one crime is no reason for not beginning on another crime . 
They are artists , who have one picture in the salon , and who toil , none the less , on a new work in their studios . 
Brujon seemed to be stupefied by prison . 
This last was the dearest of the whole tariff . 
It was thought that these men were members of Patron Minette two of those leaders , Babet and Gueulemer , had been captured . 
They were in possession of other indications they laid hand on the three prowlers , and supposed that they had circumvented some one or other of Brujon's machinations . 
The guardian entered , Brujon was put in a solitary cell for a month , but they were not able to seize what he had written . 
The police learned nothing further about it . 
Etymology over England from one land to another into Ireland . 
This little pellet falls in the yard . 
The man who picks it up opens it and finds in it a note addressed to some prisoner in that yard . 
On this occasion , the postilion reached its address , although the person to whom it was addressed was , at that moment , in solitary confinement . 
This person was no other than Babet , one of the four heads of Patron Minette . 
The postilion contained a roll of paper on which only these two lines were written Babet . 
There is an affair in the Rue Plumet . 
A gate on a garden . 
This is what Brujon had written the night before . 
This woman in turn transmitted the note to another woman of her acquaintance , a certain Magnon , who was strongly suspected by the police , though not yet arrested . 
It happened , that at precisely that moment , as proofs were wanting in the investigation directed against Thenardier in the matter of his daughters , Eponine and Azelma were released . 
When Eponine came out , Magnon , who was watching the gate of the Madelonettes , handed her Brujon's note to Babet , charging her to look into the matter . 
A biscuit , in the shady symbolism of prisons , signifies Nothing to be done . 
Thus did the foetus of crime engendered by Brujon in La Force miscarry . 
This miscarriage had its consequences , however , which were perfectly distinct from Brujon's programme . 
The reader will see what they were . 
Often when we think we are knotting one thread , we are tying quite another . 
CHAPTER III APPARITION TO FATHER MABEUF Marius no longer went to see any one , but he sometimes encountered Father Mabeuf by chance . 
The Flora of Cauteretz no longer sold at all . 
The experiments on indigo had not been successful in the little garden of Austerlitz , which had a bad exposure . 
M. Mabeuf could cultivate there only a few plants which love shade and dampness . 
Nevertheless , he did not become discouraged . 
He had obtained a corner in the Jardin des Plantes , with a good exposure , to make his trials with indigo at his own expense . 
For this purpose he had pawned his copperplates of the Flora . 
He had reduced his breakfast to two eggs , and he left one of these for his old servant , to whom he had paid no wages for the last fifteen months . 
And often his breakfast was his only meal . 
He no longer smiled with his infantile smile , he had grown morose and no longer received visitors . 
Marius did well not to dream of going thither . 
Sometimes , at the hour when M. Mabeuf was on his way to the Jardin des Plantes , the old man and the young man passed each other on the Boulevard de l'Hopital . 
They did not speak , and only exchanged a melancholy sign of the head . 
A heart breaking thing it is that there comes a moment when misery looses bonds ! Two men who have been friends become two chance passers by . 
Royal the bookseller was dead . 
M. Mabeuf no longer knew his books , his garden , or his indigo these were the three forms which happiness , pleasure , and hope had assumed for him . 
This sufficed him for his living . 
In the meantime , he toiled all day over his plot of indigo , and at night he returned home to water his garden , and to read his books . 
At that epoch , M. Mabeuf was nearly eighty years of age . 
One evening he had a singular apparition . 
He had returned home while it was still broad daylight . 
Mother Plutarque , whose health was declining , was ill and in bed . 
There was nothing in the hutch , but there were a few apples in the fruit closet , the remains of the winter's provision . 
His natural timidity rendered him accessible to the acceptance of superstitions in a certain degree . 
This last mentioned old volume interested him all the more , because his garden had been one of the spots haunted by goblins in former times . 
The twilight had begun to whiten what was on high and to blacken all below . 
Father Mabeuf was one of those persons for whom plants have souls . 
Then he turned round and cast a glance of anguish toward heaven which was becoming studded with stars . 
The evening had that serenity which overwhelms the troubles of man beneath an indescribably mournful and eternal joy . 
The night promised to be as arid as the day had been . 
She had less the air of a human being than of a form which had just blossomed forth from the twilight . 
The sound of the watering pot on the leaves filled Father Mabeuf's soul with ecstasy . 
It seemed to him that the rhododendron was happy now . 
The first bucketful emptied , the girl drew a second , then a third . 
She watered the whole garden . 
When she had finished , Father Mabeuf approached her with tears in his eyes , and laid his hand on her brow . 
God will bless you , said he , you are an angel since you take care of the flowers . 
I am the devil , but that's all the same to me . 
What ? Tell me where M. Marius lives . 
The old man did not understand . 
What Monsieur Marius ? He raised his glassy eyes and seemed to be seeking something that had vanished . 
A young man who used to come here . 
In the meantime , M. Mabeuf had searched his memory . 
Ah ! yes he exclaimed . 
I know what you mean . 
Wait ! Monsieur Marius the Baron Marius Pontmercy , parbleu ! He lives , or rather , he no longer lives , ah well , I don't know . 
As he spoke , he had bent over to train a branch of rhododendron , and he continued Hold , I know now . 
He very often passes along the boulevard , and goes in the direction of the Glaciere , Rue Croulebarbe . 
The meadow of the Lark . 
It is not hard to meet him . 
When M. Mabeuf straightened himself up , there was no longer any one there the girl had disappeared . 
Really , he thought , if my garden had not been watered , I should think that she was a spirit . 
It was always thus , however . 
That will put me in spirits . 
And off he went to the Lark's meadow . 
There he beheld more than ever the star , and less than ever Savigny and Gans . 
And he went out every day . 
He lived in the Lark's meadow more than in Courfeyrac's lodgings . 
That was his real address Boulevard de la Sante , at the seventh tree from the Rue Croulebarbe . 
That morning he had quitted the seventh tree and had seated himself on the parapet of the River des Gobelins . 
A cheerful sunlight penetrated the freshly unfolded and luminous leaves . 
He was dreaming of Her . 
On the one hand , the sound of liberty , the careless happiness of the leisure which has wings on the other , the sound of toil . 
What caused him to meditate deeply , and almost reflect , were two cheerful sounds . 
Strange to say , she had grown poorer and prettier , two steps which it had not seemed within her power to take . 
She had accomplished a double progress , towards the light and towards distress . 
It was the same harsh voice , the same brow dimmed and wrinkled with tan , the same free , wild , and vacillating glance . 
She had besides , more than formerly , in her face that indescribably terrified and lamentable something which sojourn in a prison adds to wretchedness . 
And in spite of it all , she was beautiful . 
She stood for several moments as though incapable of speech . 
So I have met you at last ! she said at length . 
Father Mabeuf was right , it was on this boulevard ! How I have hunted for you ! If you only knew ! Do you know ? I have been in the jug . 
A fortnight ! They let me out ! seeing that there was nothing against me , and that , moreover , I had not reached years of discretion . 
I lack two months of it . 
Oh ! how I have hunted for you ! These six weeks ! So you don't live down there any more ? No , said Marius . 
Those take downs are disagreeable . 
Come now ! Why do you wear old hats like this ! A young man like you ought to have fine clothes . 
Do you know , Monsieur Marius , Father Mabeuf calls you Baron Marius , I don't know what . 
I once carried a letter to a baron of that sort . 
He was over a hundred years old . 
Say , where do you live now ? Marius made no reply . 
Ah ! she went on , you have a hole in your shirt . 
I must sew it up for you . 
She resumed with an expression which gradually clouded over You don't seem glad to see me . 
Marius held his peace she remained silent for a moment , then exclaimed But if I choose , nevertheless , I could force you to look glad ! What ? demanded Marius . 
What do you mean ? Ah ! you used to call me thou , she retorted . 
Well , then , what dost thou mean ? She bit her lips she seemed to hesitate , as though a prey to some sort of inward conflict . 
At last she appeared to come to a decision . 
So much the worse , I don't care . 
You have a melancholy air , I want you to be pleased . 
Only promise me that you will smile . 
I want to see you smile and hear you say Ah , well , that's good . 
All the blood flowed back to his heart . 
What address ? The address that you asked me to get ! She added , as though with an effort The address you know very well ! Yes ! stammered Marius . 
This word uttered , she sighed deeply . 
Marius sprang from the parapet on which he had been sitting and seized her hand distractedly . 
Oh ! Well ! lead me thither ! Tell me ! Ask of me anything you wish ! Where is it ? Come with me , she responded . 
I don't know the street or number very well it is in quite the other direction from here , but I know the house well , I will take you to it . 
He seized Eponine by the arm Swear one thing to me ! Swear ! said she , what does that mean ? Come ! You want me to swear ? And she laughed . 
Your father ! promise me , Eponine ! Swear to me that you will not give this address to your father ! She turned to him with a stupefied air . 
Eponine ! How do you know that my name is Eponine ? Promise what I tell you ! But she did not seem to hear him . 
That's nice ! You have called me Eponine ! Marius grasped both her arms at once . 
Ah yes , my father ! Be at ease . 
Besides , what do I care for my father ! But you do not promise me ! exclaimed Marius . 
There ! Is that right ? Is that it ? Nor to any one ? said Marius . 
Now , resumed Marius , take me there . 
Ah ! how pleased he is ! said she . 
After a few steps she halted . 
You are following me too closely , Monsieur Marius . 
Let me go on ahead , and follow me so , without seeming to do it . 
A nice young man like you must not be seen with a woman like me . 
No tongue can express all that lay in that word , woman , thus pronounced by that child . 
She proceeded a dozen paces and then halted once more Marius joined her . 
She addressed him sideways , and without turning towards him By the way , you know that you promised me something ? Marius fumbled in his pocket . 
All that he owned in the world was the five francs intended for Thenardier the father . 
He took them and laid them in Eponine's hand . 
She opened her fingers and let the coin fall to the ground , and gazed at him with a gloomy air . 
I don't want your money , said she . 
This garden was about an acre and a half in extent . 
Thanks to clever purchasers of land , the magistrate had been able to make a secret , sewer like passage on his own property , and consequently , without interference . 
Only the birds beheld this curiosity . 
It is probable that the linnets and tomtits of the last century gossiped a great deal about the chief justice . 
This house and corridor , which have now disappeared , were in existence fifteen years ago . 
In a coppersmith had purchased the house with the idea of demolishing it , but had not been able to pay the price the nation made him bankrupt . 
So that it was the house which demolished the coppersmith . 
After that , the house remained uninhabited , and fell slowly to ruin , as does every dwelling to which the presence of man does not communicate life . 
Towards the end of the Restoration , these same passers by might have noticed that the bill had disappeared , and even that the shutters on the first floor were open . 
The house was occupied , in fact . 
The windows had short curtains , a sign that there was a woman about . 
He had had the secret openings of the two doors to this passage repaired . 
The neighbors did not gossip about him , for the reason that there were no neighbors . 
This unobtrusive tenant was Jean Valjean , the young girl was Cosette . 
He had hired the house under the name of M. Fauchelevent , independent gentleman . 
In all that has been related heretofore , the reader has , doubtless , been no less prompt than Thenardier to recognize Jean Valjean . 
Why had Jean Valjean quitted the convent of the Petit Picpus ? What had happened ? Nothing had happened . 
It will be remembered that Jean Valjean was happy in the convent , so happy that his conscience finally took the alarm . 
On reflecting upon this , he fell into perplexity . 
He resolved to quit the convent . 
He resolved on this he recognized with anguish , the fact that it was necessary . 
As for objections , there were none . 
Five years' sojourn between these four walls and of disappearance had necessarily destroyed or dispersed the elements of fear . 
He could return tranquilly among men . 
He had grown old , and all had undergone a change . 
Besides , what is danger in comparison with the right ? Finally , nothing prevented his being prudent and taking his precautions . 
As for Cosette's education , it was almost finished and complete . 
His determination once taken , he awaited an opportunity . 
It was not long in presenting itself . 
It was thus that Jean Valjean quitted the convent of the Perpetual Adoration . 
On leaving the convent , he took in his own arms the little valise the key to which he still wore on his person , and would permit no porter to touch it . 
This puzzled Cosette , because of the odor of embalming which proceeded from it . 
Let us state at once , that this trunk never quitted him more . 
He always had it in his chamber . 
It was the first and only thing sometimes , that he carried off in his moving when he moved about . 
Cosette laughed at it , and called this valise his inseparable , saying I am jealous of it . 
Nevertheless , Jean Valjean did not reappear in the open air without profound anxiety . 
He discovered the house in the Rue Plumet , and hid himself from sight there . 
Henceforth he was in the possession of the name Ultime Fauchelevent . 
He went from time to time , now to the Rue de l'Homme Arme , now to the Rue de l'Ouest , to pass a month or six weeks , without taking Toussaint . 
He had himself served by the porters , and gave himself out as a gentleman from the suburbs , living on his funds , and having a little temporary resting place in town . 
This lofty virtue had three domiciles in Paris for the sake of escaping from the police . 
Long damask curtains with a red foundation and three colors , like those on the bed , hung at the windows of the first floor . 
On the ground floor , the curtains were of tapestry . 
All winter long , Cosette's little house was heated from top to bottom . 
He dined with Cosette , and he had a loaf of black bread on the table for his own use . 
When Toussaint came , he had said to her It is the young lady who is the mistress of this house . 
And you , monsieur ? Toussaint replied in amazement . 
I am a much better thing than the master , I am the father . 
Cosette had been taught housekeeping in the convent , and she regulated their expenditure , which was very modest . 
Every day , Jean Valjean put his arm through Cosette's and took her for a walk . 
He was fond of taking Cosette to visit the poor and the sick . 
No stranger ever entered the house in the Rue Plumet . 
Toussaint brought their provisions , and Jean Valjean went himself for water to a fountain near by on the boulevard . 
For M. Fauchelevent , independent gentleman , belonged to the national guard he had not been able to escape through the fine meshes of the census of . 
This man had for his ideal , within , the angel , without , the bourgeois . 
Let us note one detail , however when Jean Valjean went out with Cosette , he dressed as the reader has already seen , and had the air of a retired officer . 
When he went out alone , which was generally at night , he was always dressed in a workingman's trousers and blouse , and wore a cap which concealed his face . 
Was this precaution or humility ? Both . 
Cosette was accustomed to the enigmatical side of her destiny , and hardly noticed her father's peculiarities . 
As for Toussaint , she venerated Jean Valjean , and thought everything he did right . 
One day , her butcher , who had caught a glimpse of Jean Valjean , said to her That's a queer fish . 
She replied He's a saint . 
Neither Jean Valjean nor Cosette nor Toussaint ever entered or emerged except by the door on the Rue de Babylone . 
Unless seen through the garden gate it would have been difficult to guess that they lived in the Rue Plumet . 
That gate was always closed . 
Jean Valjean had left the garden uncultivated , in order not to attract attention . 
In this , possibly , he made a mistake . 
CHAPTER III FOLIIS AC FRONDIBUS The garden thus left to itself for more than half a century had become extraordinary and charming . 
The passers by of forty years ago halted to gaze at it , without a suspicion of the secrets which it hid in its fresh and verdant depths . 
Gardening had taken its departure , and nature had returned . 
Weeds abounded , which was a great piece of luck for a poor corner of land . 
The festival of gilliflowers was something splendid . 
Nothing in this garden obstructed the sacred effort of things towards life venerable growth reigned there among them . 
At midday , a thousand white butterflies took refuge there , and it was a divine spectacle to see that living summer snow whirling about there in flakes amid the shade . 
There , in those gay shadows of verdure , a throng of innocent voices spoke sweetly to the soul , and what the twittering forgot to say the humming completed . 
In winter the thicket was black , dripping , bristling , shivering , and allowed some glimpse of the house . 
Nothing is small , in fact any one who is subject to the profound and penetrating influence of nature knows this . 
Algebra is applied to the clouds the radiation of the star profits the rose no thinker would venture to affirm that the perfume of the hawthorn is useless to the constellations . 
There are marvellous relations between beings and things in that inexhaustible whole , from the sun to the grub , nothing despises the other all have need of each other . 
The light does not bear away terrestrial perfumes into the azure depths , without knowing what it is doing the night distributes stellar essences to the sleeping flowers . 
All birds that fly have round their leg the thread of the infinite . 
Where the telescope ends , the microscope begins . 
Which of the two possesses the larger field of vision ? Choose . 
A bit of mould is a pleiad of flowers a nebula is an ant hill of stars . 
The same promiscuousness , and yet more unprecedented , exists between the things of the intelligence and the facts of substance . 
Elements and principles mingle , combine , wed , multiply with each other , to such a point that the material and the moral world are brought eventually to the same clearness . 
The phenomenon is perpetually returning upon itself . 
A machine made of mind . 
Enormous gearing , the prime motor of which is the gnat , and whose final wheel is the zodiac . 
CHAPTER IV CHANGE OF GATE It seemed that this garden , created in olden days to conceal wanton mysteries , had been transformed and become fitted to shelter chaste mysteries . 
There were no longer either arbors , or bowling greens , or tunnels , or grottos there was a magnificent , dishevelled obscurity falling like a veil over all . 
Paphos had been made over into Eden . 
It is impossible to say what element of repentance had rendered this retreat wholesome . 
This flower girl now offered her blossom to the soul . 
This coquettish garden , formerly decidedly compromised , had returned to virginity and modesty . 
There was , also , in this solitude , a heart which was quite ready . 
but in all other respects she was utterly ignorant , which is a great charm and a great peril . 
The soul of a young girl should not be left in the dark later on , mirages that are too abrupt and too lively are formed there , as in a dark chamber . 
She should be gently and discreetly enlightened , rather with the reflection of realities than with their harsh and direct light . 
A useful and graciously austere half light which dissipates puerile fears and obviates falls . 
Nothing supplies the place of this instinct . 
All the nuns in the world are not worth as much as one mother in the formation of a young girl's soul . 
Cosette had had no mother . 
She had only had many mothers , in the plural . 
As for Jean Valjean , he was , indeed , all tenderness , all solicitude but he was only an old man and he knew nothing at all . 
The convent turns the thoughts in the direction of the unknown . 
The heart , thus thrown back upon itself , works downward within itself , since it cannot overflow , and grows deep , since it cannot expand . 
The convent is a compression which , in order to triumph over the human heart , should last during the whole life . 
On quitting the convent , Cosette could have found nothing more sweet and more dangerous than the house in the Rue Plumet . 
Still , when she arrived there , we repeat , she was only a child . 
Jean Valjean gave this neglected garden over to her . 
Do what you like with it , he said to her . 
It will be remembered that M. Madeleine had been in the habit of reading a great deal . 
Jean Valjean had continued this practice he had come to converse well he possessed the secret riches and the eloquence of a true and humble mind which has spontaneously cultivated itself . 
He retained just enough sharpness to season his kindness his mind was rough and his heart was soft . 
During their conversations in the Luxembourg , he gave her explanations of everything , drawing on what he had read , and also on what he had suffered . 
As she listened to him , Cosette's eyes wandered vaguely about . 
This simple man sufficed for Cosette's thought , the same as the wild garden sufficed for her eyes . 
When she had had a good chase after the butterflies , she came panting up to him and said Ah ! How I have run ! He kissed her brow . 
She was always at his heels . 
Where Jean Valjean was , there happiness was . 
Then why is there a fire in my rooms , and everything that is needed ? Because you are a woman and a child . 
Bah ! must men be cold and feel uncomfortable ? Certain men . 
That is good , I shall come here so often that you will be obliged to have a fire . 
And again she said to him Father , why do you eat horrible bread like that ? Because , my daughter . 
Well , if you eat it , I will eat it too . 
Then , in order to prevent Cosette eating black bread , Jean Valjean ate white bread . 
Cosette had but a confused recollection of her childhood . 
She prayed morning and evening for her mother whom she had never known . 
The Thenardiers had remained with her as two hideous figures in a dream . 
She remembered that she had gone one day , at night , to fetch water in a forest . 
She thought that it had been very far from Paris . 
It seemed to her that she had begun to live in an abyss , and that it was Jean Valjean who had rescued her from it . 
Her childhood produced upon her the effect of a time when there had been nothing around her but millepeds , spiders , and serpents . 
When he was seated , she leaned her cheek against his white hair , and dropped a silent tear , saying to herself Perhaps this man is my mother . 
She did not even know her mother's name . 
Whenever she asked Jean Valjean , Jean Valjean remained silent . 
If she repeated her question , he responded with a smile . 
Once she insisted the smile ended in a tear . 
This silence on the part of Jean Valjean covered Fantine with darkness . 
It seemed to him that he no longer dared . 
Was it because of Cosette ? Was it because of Fantine ? He felt a certain religious horror at letting that shadow enter Cosette's thought and of placing a third in their destiny . 
The more sacred this shade was to him , the more did it seem that it was to be feared . 
He thought of Fantine , and felt himself overwhelmed with silence . 
Through the darkness , he vaguely perceived something which appeared to have its finger on its lips . 
Hence the impossibility of uttering , even for Cosette , that name of Fantine . 
One day Cosette said to him Father , I saw my mother in a dream last night . 
She had two big wings . 
My mother must have been almost a saint during her life . 
Through martyrdom , replied Jean Valjean . 
However , Jean Valjean was happy . 
When Cosette went out with him , she leaned on his arm , proud and happy , in the plenitude of her heart . 
Jean Valjean felt his heart melt within him with delight , at all these sparks of a tenderness so exclusive , so wholly satisfied with himself alone . 
This threw her in a singularly troubled state of mind . 
Up to that moment she had never thought of her face . 
She saw herself in her mirror , but she did not look at herself . 
And here , all at once , was her mirror saying to her , as Jean Valjean had said No indeed ! That night , she did not sleep . 
What if I were pretty ! she thought . 
She had not slept well , that was all , her eyes were sunken and she was pale . 
She did not look at herself again , and for more than a fortnight she tried to dress her hair with her back turned to the mirror . 
In the evening , after dinner , she generally embroidered in wool or did some convent needlework in the drawing room , and Jean Valjean read beside her . 
Once she raised her eyes from her work , and was rendered quite uneasy by the manner in which her father was gazing at her . 
Bah ! she thought , he does not mean me . 
I am well dressed and ugly . 
She was then wearing a plush hat and her merino gown . 
She had just dazzled herself . 
She was beautiful and lovely she could not help agreeing with Toussaint and her mirror . 
Her figure was formed , her skin had grown white , her hair was lustrous , an unaccustomed splendor had been lighted in her blue eyes . 
Jean Valjean , on his side , experienced a deep and undefinable oppression at heart . 
In fact , he had , for some time past , been contemplating with terror that beauty which seemed to grow more radiant every day on Cosette's sweet face . 
The dawn that was smiling for all was gloomy for him . 
Cosette had been beautiful for a tolerably long time before she became aware of it herself . 
But , from the very first day , that unexpected light which was rising slowly and enveloping the whole of the young girl's person , wounded Jean Valjean's sombre eye . 
He felt that it was a change in a happy life , a life so happy that he did not dare to move for fear of disarranging something . 
Everything which could affect this situation , if only on the surface , made him shudder like the beginning of something new . 
He had never known very distinctly himself what the beauty of a woman means but he understood instinctively , that it was something terrible . 
He said to himself How beautiful she is ! What is to become of me ? There , moreover , lay the difference between his tenderness and the tenderness of a mother . 
What he beheld with anguish , a mother would have gazed upon with joy . 
The first symptoms were not long in making their appearance . 
On the very morrow of the day on which she had said to herself Decidedly I am beautiful ! Cosette began to pay attention to her toilet . 
With faith in her beauty , the whole feminine soul expanded within her . 
She conceived a horror for her merinos , and shame for her plush hat . 
Her father had never refused her anything . 
The words heady woman were invented for the Parisienne . 
Jean Valjean watched these ravages with anxiety . 
He who felt that he could never do anything but crawl , walk at the most , beheld wings sprouting on Cosette . 
Moreover , from the mere inspection of Cosette's toilet , a woman would have recognized the fact that she had no mother . 
Certain little proprieties , certain special conventionalities , were not observed by Cosette . 
A mother , for instance , would have told her that a young girl does not dress in damask . 
On their return home , he asked Cosette Won't you put on that other gown and bonnet again , you know the ones I mean ? This took place in Cosette's chamber . 
Cosette turned towards the wardrobe where her cast off schoolgirl's clothes were hanging . 
That disguise ! said she . 
Father , what do you want me to do with it ? Oh no , the idea ! I shall never put on those horrors again . 
With that machine on my head , I have the air of Madame Mad dog . 
Jean Valjean heaved a deep sigh . 
Now she preferred the garden , and did not dislike to promenade back and forth in front of the railed fence . 
Jean Valjean , who was shy , never set foot in the garden . 
He kept to his back yard , like a dog . 
Cosette , in gaining the knowledge that she was beautiful , lost the grace of ignoring it . 
But what she had lost in ingenuous grace , she gained in pensive and serious charm . 
Her whole person , permeated with the joy of youth , of innocence , and of beauty , breathed forth a splendid melancholy . 
It was at this epoch that Marius , after the lapse of six months , saw her once more at the Luxembourg . 
CHAPTER VI THE BATTLE BEGUN Cosette in her shadow , like Marius in his , was all ready to take fire . 
The glance has been so much abused in love romances that it has finally fallen into disrepute . 
One hardly dares to say , nowadays , that two beings fell in love because they looked at each other . 
That is the way people do fall in love , nevertheless , and the only way . 
The rest is nothing , but the rest comes afterwards . 
Nothing is more real than these great shocks which two souls convey to each other by the exchange of that spark . 
At that particular hour when Cosette unconsciously darted that glance which troubled Marius , Marius had no suspicion that he had also launched a look which disturbed Cosette . 
He caused her the same good and the same evil . 
She had been in the habit of seeing him for a long time , and she had scrutinized him as girls scrutinize and see , while looking elsewhere . 
Marius still considered Cosette ugly , when she had already begun to think Marius handsome . 
But as he paid no attention to her , the young man was nothing to her . 
On the day when their eyes met at last , and said to each other those first , obscure , and ineffable things which the glance lisps , Cosette did not immediately understand . 
She returned thoughtfully to the house in the Rue de l'Ouest , where Jean Valjean , according to his custom , had come to spend six weeks . 
She was , on the contrary , somewhat incensed at this handsome and disdainful individual . 
A substratum of war stirred within her . 
It struck her , and the idea caused her a wholly childish joy , that she was going to take her revenge at last . 
Knowing that she was beautiful , she was thoroughly conscious , though in an indistinct fashion , that she possessed a weapon . 
Women play with their beauty as children do with a knife . 
The reader will recall Marius' hesitations , his palpitations , his terrors . 
He remained on his bench and did not approach . 
One day , she said to Jean Valjean Father , let us stroll about a little in that direction . 
Seeing that Marius did not come to her , she went to him . 
In such cases , all women resemble Mahomet . 
And then , strange to say , the first symptom of true love in a young man is timidity in a young girl it is boldness . 
This is surprising , and yet nothing is more simple . 
It is the two sexes tending to approach each other and assuming , each the other's qualities . 
That day , Cosette's glance drove Marius beside himself , and Marius' glance set Cosette to trembling . 
Marius went away confident , and Cosette uneasy . 
From that day forth , they adored each other . 
The first thing that Cosette felt was a confused and profound melancholy . 
It seemed to her that her soul had become black since the day before . 
She no longer recognized it . 
The whiteness of soul in young girls , which is composed of coldness and gayety , resembles snow . 
It melts in love , which is its sun . 
Cosette did not know what love was . 
She had never heard the word uttered in its terrestrial sense . 
This created enigmas which exercised the imaginations of the big girls , such as Ah , how delightful is the drum ! or , Pity is not a pandour . 
But Cosette had left the convent too early to have occupied herself much with the drum . 
Therefore , she did not know what name to give to what she now felt . 
Is any one the less ill because one does not know the name of one's malady ? She loved with all the more passion because she loved ignorantly . 
She did not know whether it was a good thing or a bad thing , useful or dangerous , eternal or temporary , allowable or prohibited she loved . 
It was a sort of admiration at a distance , a mute contemplation , the deification of a stranger . 
Any nearer and more palpable meeting would have alarmed Cosette at this first stage , when she was still half immersed in the exaggerated mists of the cloister . 
She had all the fears of children and all the fears of nuns combined . 
In this situation he was not a lover , he was not even an admirer , he was a vision . 
She set herself to adoring Marius as something charming , luminous , and impossible . 
As extreme innocence borders on extreme coquetry , she smiled at him with all frankness . 
It was thus that Cosette gradually became a woman and developed , beautiful and loving , with a consciousness of her beauty , and in ignorance of her love . 
She was a coquette to boot through her ignorance . 
CHAPTER VII TO ONE SADNESS OPPOSE A SADNESS AND A HALF All situations have their instincts . 
Old and eternal Mother Nature warned Jean Valjean in a dim way of the presence of Marius . 
Jean Valjean shuddered to the very bottom of his soul . 
Nevertheless , it came to pass that Jean Valjean sometimes espied him . 
Marius' manners were no longer in the least natural . 
He exhibited ambiguous prudence and awkward daring . 
He no longer came quite close to them as formerly . 
Cosette allowed nothing to be divined . 
Without knowing just what was the matter with her she was convinced that there was something in it , and that it must be concealed . 
It might be accidental , no doubt , certainly , but it was a menacing accident . 
He never opened his mouth to Cosette about this stranger . 
How stupid I am ! thought Jean Valjean . 
She had not noticed him . 
It is I who have pointed him out to her . 
Jean Valjean had instituted an undeclared war against Marius , which Marius , with the sublime stupidity of his passion and his age , did not divine . 
None the less did he bear in his heart a mournful tremor . 
The minute when Cosette would love might strike at any moment . 
Does not everything begin with indifference ? Only once did Cosette make a mistake and alarm him . 
It almost seemed to him that unknown craters were forming in his bosom . 
Then his eyes were filled with a sad and extraordinary gleam . 
It was no longer a man gazing at a man it was no longer an enemy surveying an enemy . 
It was a dog scanning a thief . 
The reader knows the rest . 
Marius pursued his senseless course . 
One day he followed Cosette to the Rue de l'Ouest . 
Another day he spoke to the porter . 
A week later , Jean Valjean had taken his departure . 
He swore to himself that he would never again set foot either in the Luxembourg or in the Rue de l'Ouest . 
He returned to the Rue Plumet . 
He merely noticed that she had grown sad , and he grew gloomy . 
On his side and on hers , inexperience had joined issue . 
Once he made a trial . 
He asked Cosette Would you like to come to the Luxembourg ? A ray illuminated Cosette's pale face . 
Marius no longer went there . 
No ill temper , no harshness . 
His face was always serene and kind . 
Jean Valjean's manners were more tender and more paternal than ever . 
If anything could have betrayed his lack of joy , it was his increased suavity . 
On her side , Cosette languished . 
She suffered from the absence of Marius as she had rejoiced in his presence , peculiarly , without exactly being conscious of it . 
But days , weeks , months , elapsed . 
Jean Valjean had tacitly accepted Cosette's tacit consent . 
So Marius had disappeared all was over . 
The day on which she returned to the Luxembourg , Marius was no longer there . 
However , she did not allow Jean Valjean to perceive anything of this , except her pallor . 
She still wore her sweet face for him . 
This pallor sufficed but too thoroughly to trouble Jean Valjean . 
Sometimes he asked her What is the matter with you ? She replied There is nothing the matter with me . 
CHAPTER VIII THE CHAIN GANG Jean Valjean was the more unhappy of the two . 
Youth , even in its sorrows , always possesses its own peculiar radiance . 
At times , Jean Valjean suffered so greatly that he became puerile . 
It is the property of grief to cause the childish side of man to reappear . 
He had an unconquerable conviction that Cosette was escaping from him . 
He would have liked to resist , to retain her , to arouse her enthusiasm by some external and brilliant matter . 
He once chanced to see a general on horseback , in full uniform , pass along the street , Comte Coutard , the commandant of Paris . 
An unforeseen shock was added to these sad reflections . 
In the isolated life which they led , and since they had come to dwell in the Rue Plumet , they had contracted one habit . 
They sometimes took a pleasure trip to see the sun rise , a mild species of enjoyment which befits those who are entering life and those who are quitting it . 
For those who love solitude , a walk in the early morning is equivalent to a stroll by night , with the cheerfulness of nature added . 
The streets are deserted and the birds are singing . 
Cosette , a bird herself , liked to rise early . 
These matutinal excursions were planned on the preceding evening . 
He proposed , and she agreed . 
It was arranged like a plot , they set out before daybreak , and these trips were so many small delights for Cosette . 
These innocent eccentricities please young people . 
Jean Valjean's inclination led him , as we have seen , to the least frequented spots , to solitary nooks , to forgotten places . 
Jean Valjean loved to haunt these fields . 
Cosette was not bored there . 
It meant solitude to him and liberty to her . 
Even after their life had grown sad , they kept up their custom of early strolls . 
One morning in October , therefore , tempted by the serene perfection of the autumn of , they set out , and found themselves at break of day near the Barriere du Maine . 
It was not dawn , it was daybreak a delightful and stern moment . 
A lark , which seemed mingled with the stars , was carolling at a prodigious height , and one would have declared that that hymn of pettiness calmed immensity . 
Jean Valjean was sitting in a cross walk on some planks deposited at the gate of a timber yard . 
There are meditations which may be called vertical when one is at the bottom of them , time is required to return to earth . 
Jean Valjean had plunged into one of these reveries . 
He was almost happy in his revery . 
Cosette , who was standing beside him , was gazing at the clouds as they turned rosy . 
All at once Cosette exclaimed Father , I should think some one was coming yonder . 
Jean Valjean raised his eyes . 
Some shapeless thing which was coming from the boulevard was turning into the road . 
There were horses , wheels , shouts whips were cracking . 
By degrees the outlines became fixed , although bathed in shadows . 
The first six were singularly constructed . 
They resembled coopers' drays they consisted of long ladders placed on two wheels and forming barrows at their rear extremities . 
Each dray , or rather let us say , each ladder , was attached to four horses harnessed tandem . 
On these ladders strange clusters of men were being drawn . 
In the faint light , these men were to be divined rather than seen . 
In the back and front of each vehicle , two men armed with muskets stood erect , each holding one end of the chain under his foot . 
The iron necklets were square . 
This wagon , all lattice work , was garnished with dilapidated hurdles which appeared to have served for former punishments . 
These vehicles kept to the middle of the road . 
These myrmidons seemed composed of the abjectness of the beggar and the authority of the executioner . 
The one who appeared to be their chief held a postilion's whip in his hand . 
All these details , blurred by the dimness of dawn , became more and more clearly outlined as the light increased . 
At the head and in the rear of the convoy rode mounted gendarmes , serious and with sword in fist . 
This procession was so long that when the first vehicle reached the barrier , the last was barely debauching from the boulevard . 
In the neighboring lanes the shouts of people calling to each other and the wooden shoes of market gardeners hastening up to gaze were audible . 
The men massed upon the drays allowed themselves to be jolted along in silence . 
They were livid with the chill of morning . 
They all wore linen trousers , and their bare feet were thrust into wooden shoes . 
The rest of their costume was a fantasy of wretchedness . 
Their accoutrements were horribly incongruous nothing is more funereal than the harlequin in rags . 
Two or three had a straw rope attached to the cross bar of the dray , and suspended under them like a stirrup , which supported their feet . 
There were no eyes there which were not either dry , dulled , or flaming with an evil light . 
This file of vehicles , whatever its nature was , was mournful . 
Suddenly , the sun made its appearance the immense light of the Orient burst forth , and one would have said that it had set fire to all those ferocious heads . 
Their tongues were unloosed a conflagration of grins , oaths , and songs exploded . 
The broad horizontal sheet of light severed the file in two parts , illuminating heads and bodies , leaving feet and wheels in the obscurity . 
Thoughts made their appearance on these faces it was a terrible moment visible demons with their masks removed , fierce souls laid bare . 
Though lighted up , this wild throng remained in gloom . 
On the first cart was a negro , who had been a slave , in all probability , and who could make a comparison of his chains . 
There was no choice possible between these men who appeared to the eye as the flower of the mud . 
It was evident that the person who had had the ordering of that unclean procession had not classified them . 
These beings had been fettered and coupled pell mell , in alphabetical disorder , probably , and loaded hap hazard on those carts . 
Dante would have thought that he beheld his seven circles of hell on the march . 
One of the guards , who had a hook on the end of his cudgel , made a pretence from time to time , of stirring up this mass of human filth . 
Jean Valjean's eyes had assumed a frightful expression . 
He was not looking at a spectacle , he was seeing a vision . 
He tried to rise , to flee , to make his escape he could not move his feet . 
Sometimes , the things that you see seize upon you and hold you fast . 
Cosette was no less terrified , but in a different way . 
She did not understand what she beheld did not seem to her to be possible at length she cried Father ! What are those men in those carts ? Jean Valjean replied Convicts . 
Whither are they going ? To the galleys . 
Cosette trembled in every limb she resumed Father , are they still men ? Sometimes , answered the unhappy man . 
This caused the horrible journey to last three or four days longer but torture may surely be prolonged with the object of sparing the royal personage a sight of it . 
Jean Valjean returned home utterly overwhelmed . 
Such encounters are shocks , and the memory that they leave behind them resembles a thorough shaking up . 
However , this trip seemed to attain its object . 
Cosette did not know the delightful legend , I love a little , passionately , etc . 
If there were a fourth , and smiling Grace called Melancholy , she would have worn the air of that Grace . 
Jean Valjean was fascinated by the contemplation of those tiny fingers on that flower , and forgetful of everything in the radiance emitted by that child . 
A red breast was warbling in the thicket , on one side . 
White cloudlets floated across the sky , so gayly , that one would have said that they had just been set at liberty . 
SUCCOR FROM BELOW MAY TURN OUT TO BE SUCCOR FROM ON HIGH CHAPTER I A WOUND WITHOUT , HEALING WITHIN Thus their life clouded over by degrees . 
But one diversion , which had formerly been a happiness , remained to them , which was to carry bread to those who were hungry , and clothing to those who were cold . 
It was at this epoch that they paid their visit to the Jondrette den . 
This wound resulted in his being detained in the house for a month with fever . 
He would not call in a doctor . 
When Cosette urged him , Call the dog doctor , said he . 
She passed nearly all her days beside Jean Valjean and read to him the books which he desired . 
Generally they were books of travel . 
He had reached the point where he said to himself I imagined all that . 
I am an old fool . 
His happiness was so great that the horrible discovery of the Thenardiers made in the Jondrette hovel , unexpected as it was , had , after a fashion , glided over him unnoticed . 
He had succeeded in making his escape all trace of him was lost what more did he care for ! he only thought of those wretched beings to pity them . 
Spring came the garden was so delightful at that season of the year , that Jean Valjean said to Cosette You never go there I want you to stroll in it . 
As you like , father , said Cosette . 
Jean Valjean's wound had created a diversion . 
In that month , nature has charming gleams which pass from the sky , from the trees , from the meadows and the flowers into the heart of man . 
Cosette was still too young to escape the penetrating influence of that April joy which bore so strong a resemblance to herself . 
Insensibly , and without her suspecting the fact , the blackness departed from her spirit . 
In spring , sad souls grow light , as light falls into cellars at midday . 
Cosette was no longer sad . 
However , though this was so , she did not account for it to herself . 
Jean Valjean , intoxicated , beheld her growing fresh and rosy once more . 
Oh ! What a good wound ! he repeated in a whisper . 
And he felt grateful to the Thenardiers . 
His wound once healed , he resumed his solitary twilight strolls . 
It is a mistake to suppose that a person can stroll alone in that fashion in the uninhabited regions of Paris without meeting with some adventure . 
He resolved to make an effort to secure some supper . 
He strolled out beyond the Salpetriere into deserted regions that is where windfalls are to be found where there is no one , one always finds something . 
He reached a settlement which appeared to him to be the village of Austerlitz . 
In one of his preceding lounges he had noticed there an old garden haunted by an old man and an old woman , and in that garden , a passable apple tree . 
Beside the apple tree stood a sort of fruit house , which was not securely fastened , and where one might contrive to get an apple . 
One apple is a supper one apple is life . 
That which was Adam's ruin might prove Gavroche's salvation . 
The garden abutted on a solitary , unpaved lane , bordered with brushwood while awaiting the arrival of houses the garden was separated from it by a hedge . 
The day was declining , there was not even a cat in the lane , the hour was propitious . 
Gavroche began the operation of scaling the hedge , then suddenly paused . 
Some one was talking in the garden . 
Gavroche peeped through one of the breaks in the hedge . 
The old woman was grumbling . 
Gavroche , who was not very discreet , listened . 
Monsieur Mabeuf ! said the old woman . 
Mabeuf ! thought Gavroche , that name is a perfect farce . 
The old man who was thus addressed , did not stir . 
Mother Plutarque began again , and the old man was forced to accept the conversation The landlord is not pleased . 
Why ? We owe three quarters rent . 
In three months , we shall owe him for four quarters . 
He says that he will turn you out to sleep . 
The green grocer insists on being paid . 
She will no longer leave her fagots . 
What will you warm yourself with this winter ? We shall have no wood . 
The butcher refuses to give credit he will not let us have any more meat . 
I do not digest meat well . 
What shall we have for dinner ? Bread . 
The baker demands a settlement , and says , no money , no bread . 
What will you eat ? We have apples in the apple room . 
But , Monsieur , we can't live like that without money . 
The old woman went away , the old man remained alone . 
The first result of Gavroche's meditation was , that instead of scaling the hedge , he crouched down under it . 
The branches stood apart a little at the foot of the thicket . 
Come , exclaimed Gavroche mentally , here's a nook ! and he curled up in it . 
His back was almost in contact with Father Mabeuf's bench . 
He could hear the octogenarian breathe . 
Then , by way of dinner , he tried to sleep . 
It was a cat nap , with one eye open . 
While he dozed , Gavroche kept on the watch . 
The twilight pallor of the sky blanched the earth , and the lane formed a livid line between two rows of dark bushes . 
All at once , in this whitish band , two figures made their appearance . 
One was in front , the other some distance in the rear . 
There come two creatures , muttered Gavroche . 
The second was straight , firm , slender . 
It regulated its pace by that of the first but in the voluntary slowness of its gait , suppleness and agility were discernible . 
The head was held erect with a sort of robust grace , and beneath the hat the pale profile of a young man could be made out in the dim light . 
The profile had a rose in its mouth . 
This second form was well known to Gavroche it was Montparnasse . 
He could have told nothing about the other , except that he was a respectable old man . 
Gavroche immediately began to take observations . 
One of these two pedestrians evidently had a project connected with the other . 
Gavroche was well placed to watch the course of events . 
The bedroom had turned into a hiding place at a very opportune moment . 
Montparnasse on the hunt at such an hour , in such a place , betokened something threatening . 
Gavroche felt his gamin's heart moved with compassion for the old man . 
What was he to do ? Interfere ? One weakness coming to the aid of another ! It would be merely a laughing matter for Montparnasse . 
While Gavroche was deliberating , the attack took place , abruptly and hideously . 
The attack of the tiger on the wild ass , the attack of the spider on the fly . 
Montparnasse suddenly tossed away his rose , bounded upon the old man , seized him by the collar , grasped and clung to him , and Gavroche with difficulty restrained a scream . 
A moment later one of these men was underneath the other , groaning , struggling , with a knee of marble upon his breast . 
Only , it was not just what Gavroche had expected . 
The one who lay on the earth was Montparnasse the one who was on top was the old man . 
All this took place a few paces distant from Gavroche . 
The old man had received the shock , had returned it , and that in such a terrible fashion , that in a twinkling , the assailant and the assailed had exchanged roles . 
Here's a hearty veteran ! thought Gavroche . 
He could not refrain from clapping his hands . 
But it was applause wasted . 
It did not reach the combatants , absorbed and deafened as they were , each by the other , as their breath mingled in the struggle . 
Gavroche indulged in this aside Can he be dead ! The goodman had not uttered a word , nor given vent to a cry . 
He rose to his feet , and Gavroche heard him say to Montparnasse Get up . 
Montparnasse rose , but the goodman held him fast . 
Montparnasse's attitude was the humiliated and furious attitude of the wolf who has been caught by a sheep . 
Gavroche looked on and listened , making an effort to reinforce his eyes with his ears . 
He was enjoying himself immensely . 
He was repaid for his conscientious anxiety in the character of a spectator . 
He was able to catch on the wing a dialogue which borrowed from the darkness an indescribably tragic accent . 
The goodman questioned , Montparnasse replied . 
How old are you ? Nineteen . 
You are strong and healthy . 
Why do you not work ? It bores me . 
What is your trade ? An idler . 
Can anything be done for you ? What would you like to be ? A thief . 
The old man seemed absorbed in profound thought . 
He stood motionless , and did not relax his hold on Montparnasse . 
Every moment the vigorous and agile young ruffian indulged in the twitchings of a wild beast caught in a snare . 
He gave a jerk , tried a crook of the knee , twisted his limbs desperately , and made efforts to escape . 
The old man did not appear to notice it , and held both his arms with one hand , with the sovereign indifference of absolute force . 
Ah ! You declare yourself to be an idler ! prepare to toil . 
There is a certain formidable machine , have you seen it ? It is the rolling mill . 
You must be on your guard against it , it is crafty and ferocious if it catches hold of the skirt of your coat , you will be drawn in bodily . 
Stop while there is yet time , and save yourself ! Otherwise , it is all over with you in a short time you will be among the gearing . 
Once entangled , hope for nothing more . 
Toil , lazybones ! there is no more repose for you ! The iron hand of implacable toil has seized you . 
Labor is the law he who rejects it will find ennui his torment . 
You do not wish to be a workingman , you will be a slave . 
Toil lets go of you on one side only to grasp you again on the other . 
You do not desire to be its friend , you shall be its negro slave . 
Ah ! You would have none of the honest weariness of men , you shall have the sweat of the damned . 
Where others sing , you will rattle in your throat . 
You will see afar off , from below , other men at work it will seem to you that they are resting . 
The laborer , the harvester , the sailor , the blacksmith , will appear to you in glory like the blessed spirits in paradise . 
What radiance surrounds the forge ! To guide the plough , to bind the sheaves , is joy . 
The bark at liberty in the wind , what delight ! Do you , lazy idler , delve , drag on , roll , march ! Drag your halter . 
You are a beast of burden in the team of hell ! Ah ! To do nothing is your object . 
Well , not a week , not a day , not an hour shall you have free from oppression . 
You will be able to lift nothing without anguish . 
Every minute that passes will make your muscles crack . 
What is a feather to others will be a rock to you . 
The simplest things will become steep acclivities . 
Life will become monstrous all about you . 
To go , to come , to breathe , will be just so many terrible labors . 
Your lungs will produce on you the effect of weighing a hundred pounds . 
Whether you shall walk here rather than there , will become a problem that must be solved . 
Any one who wants to go out simply gives his door a push , and there he is in the open air . 
If you wish to go out , you will be obliged to pierce your wall . 
To drop hap hazard into the gulf , from an unknown height , on what ? On what is beneath , on the unknown . 
A lock presents itself the bourgeois has in his pocket a key made by a locksmith . 
The top and bottom thus screwed together , nothing will be suspected . 
To the overseers it will be only a sou to you it will be a box . 
What will you put in this box ? A small bit of steel . 
A watch spring , in which you will have cut teeth , and which will form a saw . 
You will break those fetters , you will flee . 
You will crawl on your belly through the brushwood , and you will eat grass like the beasts of the forest . 
And you will be recaptured . 
You will be a wood louse in a cellar . 
You desire fine black cloth , varnished shoes , to have your hair curled and sweet smelling oils on your locks , to please low women , to be handsome . 
You will be shaven clean , and you will wear a red blouse and wooden shoes . 
You want rings on your fingers , you will have an iron necklet on your neck . 
If you glance at a woman , you will receive a blow . 
And you will enter there at the age of twenty . 
Believe me , do not undertake that painful profession of an idle man . 
It is not comfortable to become a rascal . 
It is less disagreeable to be an honest man . 
Now go , and ponder on what I have said to you . 
By the way , what did you want of me ? My purse ? Here it is . 
All this having been said and done , the goodman turned his back and tranquilly resumed his stroll . 
The blockhead ! muttered Montparnasse . 
Who was this goodman ? The reader has , no doubt , already divined . 
Montparnasse watched him with amazement , as he disappeared in the dusk . 
This contemplation was fatal to him . 
While the old man was walking away , Gavroche drew near . 
Gavroche had assured himself , with a sidelong glance , that Father Mabeuf was still sitting on his bench , probably sound asleep . 
Then the gamin emerged from his thicket , and began to crawl after Montparnasse in the dark , as the latter stood there motionless . 
Montparnasse , who had no reason to be on his guard , and who was engaged in thought for the first time in his life , perceived nothing . 
When Gavroche had once more attained the point where Father Mabeuf was , he flung the purse over the hedge , and fled as fast as his legs would carry him . 
The purse fell on Father Mabeuf's foot . 
He bent over and picked up the purse . 
He did not understand in the least , and opened it . 
The purse had two compartments in one of them there was some small change in the other lay six napoleons . 
M. Mabeuf , in great alarm , referred the matter to his housekeeper . 
That has fallen from heaven , said Mother Plutarque . 
Was the fire wholly extinct there ? Or was it merely that layers of ashes had formed ? The truth is , that she hardly felt the painful and burning spot any longer . 
One day she suddenly thought of Marius Why ! said she , I no longer think of him . 
Moreover , he had light hair , prominent blue eyes , a round face , was vain , insolent and good looking quite the reverse of Marius . 
He had a cigar in his mouth . 
Cosette thought that this officer doubtless belonged to the regiment in barracks in the Rue de Babylone . 
On the following day , she saw him pass again . 
She took note of the hour . 
From that time forth , was it chance ? she saw him pass nearly every day . 
See here ! they said to him , there's a little creature there who is making eyes at you , look . 
Whose fault was it ? No one's . 
Marius possessed one of those temperaments which bury themselves in sorrow and there abide Cosette was one of those persons who plunge into sorrow and emerge from it again . 
What did Cosette's soul contain ? Passion calmed or lulled to sleep something limpid , brilliant , troubled to a certain depth , and gloomy lower down . 
The image of the handsome officer was reflected in the surface . 
Did a souvenir linger in the depths ? Quite at the bottom ? Possibly . 
CHAPTER II COSETTE'S APPREHENSIONS During the first fortnight in April , Jean Valjean took a journey . 
This , as the reader knows , happened from time to time , at very long intervals . 
He remained absent a day or two days at the utmost . 
Where did he go ? No one knew , not even Cosette . 
There he alighted , and the coach took Cosette back to the Rue de Babylone . 
It was usually when money was lacking in the house that Jean Valjean took these little trips . 
So Jean Valjean was absent . 
He had said I shall return in three days . 
That evening , Cosette was alone in the drawing room . 
When she had finished , she remained wrapped in thought . 
All at once , it seemed to her that she heard the sound of footsteps in the garden . 
It could not be her father , he was absent it could not be Toussaint , she was in bed , and it was ten o'clock at night . 
She stepped to the shutter of the drawing room , which was closed , and laid her ear against it . 
It seemed to her that it was the tread of a man , and that he was walking very softly . 
She mounted rapidly to the first floor , to her own chamber , opened a small wicket in her shutter , and peeped into the garden . 
The moon was at the full . 
Everything could be seen as plainly as by day . 
There was no one there . 
The garden was absolutely calm , and all that was visible was that the street was deserted as usual . 
Cosette thought that she had been mistaken . 
She thought that she had heard a noise . 
She thought no more about it . 
Moreover , Cosette was not very timid by nature . 
There flowed in her veins some of the blood of the bohemian and the adventuress who runs barefoot . 
It will be remembered that she was more of a lark than a dove . 
There was a foundation of wildness and bravery in her . 
On the following day , at an earlier hour , towards nightfall , she was strolling in the garden . 
Besides , she could see nothing . 
She emerged from the thicket she had still to cross a small lawn to regain the steps . 
The moon , which had just risen behind her , cast Cosette's shadow in front of her upon this lawn , as she came out from the shrubbery . 
Beside her shadow , the moon outlined distinctly upon the turf another shadow , which was particularly startling and terrible , a shadow which had a round hat . 
It was the shadow of a man , who must have been standing on the border of the clump of shrubbery , a few paces in the rear of Cosette . 
She stood for a moment without the power to speak , or cry , or call , or stir , or turn her head . 
Then she summoned up all her courage , and turned round resolutely . 
There was no one there . 
She glanced on the ground . 
She re entered the thicket , searched the corners boldly , went as far as the gate , and found nothing . 
She felt herself absolutely chilled with terror . 
Phantoms do not wear round hats . 
On the following day Jean Valjean returned . 
Cosette told him what she thought she had heard and seen . 
She wanted to be reassured and to see her father shrug his shoulders and say to her You are a little goose . 
It cannot be anything , said he . 
He left her under some pretext , and went into the garden , and she saw him examining the gate with great attention . 
During the night she woke up this time she was sure , and she distinctly heard some one walking close to the flight of steps beneath her window . 
She ran to her little wicket and opened it . 
In point of fact , there was a man in the garden , with a large club in his hand . 
Just as she was about to scream , the moon lighted up the man's profile . 
She returned to her bed , saying to herself He is very uneasy ! Jean Valjean passed that night and the two succeeding nights in the garden . 
Cosette saw him through the hole in her shutter . 
Her father was standing on the grass plot below . 
I have waked you for the purpose of reassuring you , said he look , there is your shadow with the round hat . 
It was the shadow produced by a chimney pipe of sheet iron , with a hood , which rose above a neighboring roof . 
Cosette's serenity was fully restored . 
A few days later , however , a fresh incident occurred . 
One evening during that same month of April , Jean Valjean had gone out Cosette had seated herself on this bench after sundown . 
Perhaps Fantine was within that shadow . 
She returned to the bench . 
Cosette gazed at the stone , asking herself what it meant . 
This time , the fear was genuine the stone was there . 
She inquired of Toussaint Has my father returned yet ? Not yet , Mademoiselle . 
We have already noted once for all the fact that Toussaint stuttered . 
May we be permitted to dispense with it for the future . 
The musical notation of an infirmity is repugnant to us . 
Jean Valjean , a thoughtful man , and given to nocturnal strolls , often returned quite late at night . 
Toussaint did not fail in her duty , and Cosette was well aware of the fact , but she could not refrain from adding It is so solitary here . 
So far as that is concerned , said Toussaint , it is true . 
We might be assassinated before we had time to say ouf ! And Monsieur does not sleep in the house , to boot . 
But fear nothing , Miss , I fasten the shutters up like prisons . 
It's not the dying so much you die , for one must die , and that's all right it's the abomination of feeling those people touch you . 
And then , their knives they can't be able to cut well with them ! Ah , good gracious ! Be quiet , said Cosette . 
All night long she saw that big stone , as large as a mountain and full of caverns . 
There was no more a stone on the bench than there was a man in a round hat in the garden I dreamed about the stone , as I did all the rest . 
She dressed herself , descended to the garden , ran to the bench , and broke out in a cold perspiration . 
But this lasted only for a moment . 
That which is terror by night is curiosity by day . 
Bah ! said she , come , let us see what it is . 
She lifted the stone , which was tolerably large . 
Beneath it was something which resembled a letter . 
It was a white envelope . 
There was no address on one side , no seal on the other . 
Yet the envelope , though unsealed , was not empty . 
Papers could be seen inside . 
It was no longer alarm , it was no longer curiosity it was a beginning of anxiety . 
Cosette looked for a name there was none . 
To whom was this addressed ? To her , probably , since a hand had deposited the packet on her bench . 
This is what she read . 
CHAPTER IV A HEART BENEATH A STONE The reduction of the universe to a single being , the expansion of a single being even to God , that is love . 
Love is the salutation of the angels to the stars . 
One could comprehend that God might be jealous of this had not God the Father of all evidently made creation for the soul , and the soul for love . 
The glimpse of a smile beneath a white crape bonnet with a lilac curtain is sufficient to cause the soul to enter into the palace of dreams . 
God is behind everything , but everything hides God . 
Things are black , creatures are opaque . 
To love a being is to render that being transparent . 
There are moments when , whatever the attitude of the body may be , the soul is on its knees . 
Parted lovers beguile absence by a thousand chimerical devices , which possess , however , a reality of their own . 
They are prevented from seeing each other , they cannot write to each other they discover a multitude of mysterious means to correspond . 
And why not ? All the works of God are made to serve love . 
Love is sufficiently potent to charge all nature with its messages . 
Oh Spring ! Thou art a letter that I write to her . 
The future belongs to hearts even more than it does to minds . 
Love , that is the only thing that can occupy and fill eternity . 
In the infinite , the inexhaustible is requisite . 
Love participates of the soul itself . 
It is of the same nature . 
Like it , it is the divine spark like it , it is incorruptible , indivisible , imperishable . 
It is a point of fire that exists within us , which is immortal and infinite , which nothing can confine , and which nothing can extinguish . 
We feel it burning even to the very marrow of our bones , and we see it beaming in the very depths of heaven . 
God can add nothing to the happiness of those who love , except to give them endless duration . 
God is the plenitude of heaven love is the plenitude of man . 
You look at a star for two reasons , because it is luminous , and because it is impenetrable . 
You have beside you a sweeter radiance and a greater mystery , woman . 
All of us , whoever we may be , have our respirable beings . 
We lack air and we stifle . 
To die for lack of love is horrible . 
On the day when a woman as she passes before you emits light as she walks , you are lost , you love . 
But one thing remains for you to do to think of her so intently that she is constrained to think of you . 
What love commences can be finished by God alone . 
True love is in despair and is enchanted over a glove lost or a handkerchief found , and eternity is required for its devotion and its hopes . 
It is composed both of the infinitely great and the infinitely little . 
If you are a stone , be adamant if you are a plant , be the sensitive plant if you are a man , be love . 
We have happiness , we desire paradise we possess paradise , we desire heaven . 
Oh ye who love each other , all this is contained in love . 
Understand how to find it there . 
Love has contemplation as well as heaven , and more than heaven , it has voluptuousness . 
Does she still come to the Luxembourg ? No , sir . 
This is the church where she attends mass , is it not ? She no longer comes here . 
Does she still live in this house ? She has moved away . 
Where has she gone to dwell ? She did not say . 
What a melancholy thing not to know the address of one's soul ! Love has its childishness , other passions have their pettinesses . 
There is a being who carried off my sky when she went away . 
To die of love , is to live in it . 
A sombre and starry transfiguration is mingled with this torture . 
There is ecstasy in agony . 
Oh joy of the birds ! It is because they have nests that they sing . 
Love is a celestial respiration of the air of paradise . 
Deep hearts , sage minds , take life as God has made it it is a long trial , an incomprehensible preparation for an unknown destiny . 
This destiny , the true one , begins for a man with the first step inside the tomb . 
Then something appears to him , and he begins to distinguish the definitive . 
The definitive , meditate upon that word . 
The living perceive the infinite the definitive permits itself to be seen only by the dead . 
In the meanwhile , love and suffer , hope and contemplate . 
Woe , alas ! to him who shall have loved only bodies , forms , appearances ! Death will deprive him of all . 
Try to love souls , you will find them again . 
I encountered in the street , a very poor young man who was in love . 
His hat was old , his coat was worn , his elbows were in holes water trickled through his shoes , and the stars through his soul . 
What a grand thing it is to be loved ! What a far grander thing it is to love ! The heart becomes heroic , by dint of passion . 
It is no longer composed of anything but what is pure it no longer rests on anything that is not elevated and great . 
An unworthy thought can no more germinate in it , than a nettle on a glacier . 
If there did not exist some one who loved , the sun would become extinct . 
CHAPTER V COSETTE AFTER THE LETTER As Cosette read , she gradually fell into thought . 
She resumed her contemplation of the book . 
It was , then , a mind which had unfolded itself there , sigh by sigh , irregularly , without order , without choice , without object , hap hazard . 
Cosette had never read anything like it . 
This manuscript , in which she already perceived more light than obscurity , produced upon her the effect of a half open sanctuary . 
Each one of these mysterious lines shone before her eyes and inundated her heart with a strange radiance . 
This manuscript of fifteen pages suddenly and sweetly revealed to her all of love , sorrow , destiny , life , eternity , the beginning , the end . 
It was as if a hand had opened and suddenly flung upon her a handful of rays of light . 
What was this manuscript ? A letter . 
This had been written with one foot in the grave and one finger in heaven . 
These lines , which had fallen one by one on the paper , were what might be called drops of soul . 
Now , from whom could these pages come ? Who could have penned them ? Cosette did not hesitate a moment . 
He ! Day had dawned once more in her spirit all had reappeared . 
She felt an unheard of joy , and a profound anguish . 
She had always loved him , always adored him . 
This note book was like a spark which had fallen from that other soul into hers . 
She felt the conflagration starting up once more . 
She imbued herself thoroughly with every word of the manuscript Oh yes ! said she , how perfectly I recognize all that ! That is what I had already read in his eyes . 
As she was finishing it for the third time , Lieutenant Theodule passed the gate once more , and rattled his spurs upon the pavement . 
Cosette was forced to raise her eyes . 
She thought him insipid , silly , stupid , useless , foppish , displeasing , impertinent , and extremely ugly . 
The officer thought it his duty to smile at her . 
She turned away as in shame and indignation . 
She would gladly have thrown something at his head . 
She fled , re entered the house , and shut herself up in her chamber to peruse the manuscript once more , to learn it by heart , and to dream . 
When she had thoroughly mastered it she kissed it and put it in her bosom . 
All was over , Cosette had fallen back into deep , seraphic love . 
The abyss of Eden had yawned once more . 
All day long , Cosette remained in a sort of bewilderment . 
She dared make herself no promises , and she did not wish to refuse herself anything . 
Flashes of pallor passed over her countenance , and shivers ran through her frame . 
CHAPTER VI OLD PEOPLE ARE MADE TO GO OUT OPPORTUNELY When evening came , Jean Valjean went out Cosette dressed herself . 
It was not in the least indecent , but it was prettier than usual . 
She made her toilet thus without knowing why she did so . 
Did she mean to go out ? No. Was she expecting a visitor ? No. At dusk , she went down to the garden . 
Toussaint was busy in her kitchen , which opened on the back yard . 
She began to stroll about under the trees , thrusting aside the branches from time to time with her hand , because there were some which hung very low . 
In this manner she reached the bench . 
The stone was still there . 
She sat down , and gently laid her white hand on this stone as though she wished to caress and thank it . 
All at once , she experienced that indefinable impression which one undergoes when there is some one standing behind one , even when she does not see the person . 
She turned her head and rose to her feet . 
He appeared to have grown thin and pale . 
His black clothes were hardly discernible . 
The twilight threw a wan light on his fine brow , and covered his eyes in shadows . 
Beneath a veil of incomparable sweetness , he had something about him that suggested death and night . 
His face was illuminated by the light of the dying day , and by the thought of a soul that is taking flight . 
He seemed to be not yet a ghost , and he was no longer a man . 
He had flung away his hat in the thicket , a few paces distant . 
Cosette , though ready to swoon , uttered no cry . 
She retreated slowly , for she felt herself attracted . 
By virtue of something ineffable and melancholy which enveloped him , she felt the look in his eyes which she could not see . 
Cosette , in her retreat , encountered a tree and leaned against it . 
Had it not been for this tree , she would have fallen . 
Then she heard his voice , that voice which she had really never heard , barely rising above the rustle of the leaves , and murmuring Pardon me , here I am . 
I could not live on as I was living , and I have come . 
Have you read what I placed there on the bench ? Do you recognize me at all ? Have no fear of me . 
It is a long time , you remember the day , since you looked at me at the Luxembourg , near the Gladiator . 
And the day when you passed before me ? It was on the th of June and the d of July . 
It is nearly a year ago . 
I have not seen you for a long time . 
I inquired of the woman who let the chairs , and she told me that she no longer saw you . 
You lived in the Rue de l'Ouest , on the third floor , in the front apartments of a new house , you see that I know ! I followed you . 
What else was there for me to do ? And then you disappeared . 
I thought I saw you pass once , while I was reading the newspapers under the arcade of the Odeon . 
It was a person who had a bonnet like yours . 
At night I came hither . 
Do not be afraid , no one sees me . 
I come to gaze upon your windows near at hand . 
I walk very softly , so that you may not hear , for you might be alarmed . 
The other evening I was behind you , you turned round , I fled . 
Once , I heard you singing . 
Did it affect you because I heard you singing through the shutters ? That could not hurt you . 
No , it is not so ? You see , you are my angel ! Let me come sometimes I think that I am going to die . 
If you only knew ! I adore you . 
And she sank down as though on the point of death . 
He grasped her , she fell , he took her in his arms , he pressed her close , without knowing what he was doing . 
He supported her , though he was tottering himself . 
Moreover , he had not the least passion for this lovely woman whose force he felt against his breast . 
He was beside himself with love . 
She took his hand and laid it on her heart . 
He fell upon the bench , and she beside him . 
They had no words more . 
The stars were beginning to gleam . 
Both started , and gazed into the darkness with sparkling eyes . 
They had clasped hands unconsciously . 
She did not ask him , she did not even wonder , how he had entered there , and how he had made his way into the garden . 
It seemed so simple to her that he should be there ! From time to time , Marius' knee touched Cosette's knee , and both shivered . 
At intervals , Cosette stammered a word . 
Her soul fluttered on her lips like a drop of dew on a flower . 
Little by little they began to talk to each other . 
Effusion followed silence , which is fulness . 
The night was serene and splendid overhead . 
They confided to each other in an ideal intimacy , which nothing could augment , their most secret and most mysterious thoughts . 
Each became permeated with the other , they were enchanted with each other , they dazzled each other . 
And yours ? My name is Cosette . 
That made five two girls and three boys . 
Madame Thenardier had got rid of the last two , while they were still young and very small , with remarkable luck . 
Got rid of is the word . 
There was but a mere fragment of nature in that woman . 
A phenomenon , by the way , of which there is more than one example extant . 
Like the Marechale de La Mothe Houdancourt , the Thenardier was a mother to her daughters only . 
Her hatred of the human race began with her own sons . 
In the direction of her sons her evil disposition was uncompromising , and her heart had a lugubrious wall in that quarter . 
As the reader has seen , she detested the eldest she cursed the other two . 
The most terrible of motives , the most unanswerable of retorts Because . 
I have no need of a litter of squalling brats , said this mother . 
Let us explain how the Thenardiers had succeeded in getting rid of their last two children and even in drawing profit from the operation . 
The woman Magnon , who was mentioned a few pages further back , was the same one who had succeeded in making old Gillenormand support the two children which she had had . 
She lived on the Quai des Celestins , at the corner of this ancient street of the Petit Musc which afforded her the opportunity of changing her evil repute into good odor . 
During this epidemic , the Magnon lost both her boys , who were still very young , one in the morning , the other in the evening of the same day . 
These children were precious to their mother they represented eighty francs a month . 
The children dead , the income was at an end . 
The Magnon sought an expedient . 
In that dark free masonry of evil of which she formed a part , everything is known , all secrets are kept , and all lend mutual aid . 
Magnon needed two children the Thenardiers had two . 
The same sex , the same age . 
A good arrangement for the one , a good investment for the other . 
The little Thenardiers became little Magnons . 
Magnon quitted the Quai des Celestins and went to live in the Rue Clocheperce . 
In Paris , the identity which binds an individual to himself is broken between one street and another . 
The registry office being in no way warned , raised no objections , and the substitution was effected in the most simple manner in the world . 
Only , the Thenardier exacted for this loan of her children , ten francs a month , which Magnon promised to pay , and which she actually did pay . 
It is unnecessary to add that M. Gillenormand continued to perform his compact . 
He came to see the children every six months . 
He did not perceive the change . 
Monsieur , Magnon said to him , how much they resemble you ! Thenardier , to whom avatars were easy , seized this occasion to become Jondrette . 
His two daughters and Gavroche had hardly had time to discover that they had two little brothers . 
When a certain degree of misery is reached , one is overpowered with a sort of spectral indifference , and one regards human beings as though they were spectres . 
Your nearest relations are often no more for you than vague shadowy forms , barely outlined against a nebulous background of life and easily confounded again with the invisible . 
No one will see anything but true blue in it . 
Besides , no one has any interest in looking closely after children who have not a sou . 
Magnon was a sort of fashionable woman in the sphere of crime . 
She was careful about her toilet . 
She shared her lodgings , which were furnished in an affected and wretched style , with a clever gallicized English thief . 
She was called Mamselle Miss . 
The two little creatures who had fallen to Magnon had no reason to complain of their lot . 
Magnon played the lady , and talked no thieves' slang in their presence . 
Thenardier augured well from the fact . 
One day , he chanced to say to Magnon as she handed him his monthly stipend of ten francs The father must give them some education . 
The Thenardier catastrophe involved the catastrophe of Magnon . 
While this was going on , the two little boys were playing in the back yard , and saw nothing of the raid . 
When they tried to enter the house again , they found the door fastened and the house empty . 
A cobbler opposite called them to him , and delivered to them a paper which their mother had left for them . 
On this paper there was an address M. Barge , collector of rents , Rue du Roi de Sicile , No. . 
The proprietor of the stall said to them You cannot live here any longer . 
The first street on the left . 
Ask your way from this paper . 
The children set out , the elder leading the younger , and holding in his hand the paper which was to guide them . 
It was cold , and his benumbed little fingers could not close very firmly , and they did not keep a very good hold on the paper . 
At the corner of the Rue Clocheperce , a gust of wind tore it from him , and as night was falling , the child was not able to find it again . 
They began to wander aimlessly through the streets . 
It seems as though the gloomy door of winter had remained ajar , and as though the wind were pouring through it . 
In the spring of , the epoch when the first great epidemic of this century broke out in Europe , these north gales were more harsh and piercing than ever . 
It was a door even more glacial than that of winter which was ajar . 
It was the door of the sepulchre . 
In these winds one felt the breath of the cholera . 
From a meteorological point of view , these cold winds possessed this peculiarity , that they did not preclude a strong electric tension . 
Frequent storms , accompanied by thunder and lightning , burst forth at this epoch . 
He was adorned with a woman's woollen shawl , picked up no one knows where , and which he had converted into a neck comforter . 
He had often managed to breakfast off of such a roll . 
He called his species of work , for which he possessed special aptitude , shaving barbers . 
While contemplating the bride , and eyeing the cake of soap , he muttered between his teeth Tuesday . 
Was it Tuesday ? Perhaps it was Tuesday . 
Yes , it was Tuesday . 
No one has ever discovered to what this monologue referred . 
Yes , perchance , this monologue had some connection with the last occasion on which he had dined , three days before , for it was now Friday . 
They both spoke at once , and their words were unintelligible because sobs broke the voice of the younger , and the teeth of the elder were chattering with cold . 
In the meantime , a cloud had risen it had begun to rain . 
Little Gavroche ran after them and accosted them What's the matter with you , brats ? We don't know where we are to sleep , replied the elder . 
Is that all ? said Gavroche . 
A great matter , truly . 
The idea of bawling about that . 
And the two children followed him as they would have followed an archbishop . 
Gavroche led them up the Rue Saint Antoine in the direction of the Bastille . 
As Gavroche walked along , he cast an indignant backward glance at the barber's shop . 
That fellow has no heart , the whiting , he muttered . 
Merlan a sobriquet given to hairdressers because they are white with powder . 
A woman who caught sight of these three marching in a file , with Gavroche at their head , burst into noisy laughter . 
This laugh was wanting in respect towards the group . 
Good day , Mamselle Omnibus , said Gavroche to her . 
An instant later , the wig maker occurred to his mind once more , and he added I am making a mistake in the beast he's not a whiting , he's a serpent . 
Barber , I'll go and fetch a locksmith , and I'll have a bell hung to your tail . 
This wig maker had rendered him aggressive . 
As he strode over a gutter , he apostrophized a bearded portress who was worthy to meet Faust on the Brocken , and who had a broom in her hand . 
Madam , said he , so you are going out with your horse ? And thereupon , he spattered the polished boots of a pedestrian . 
You scamp ! shouted the furious pedestrian . 
Gavroche elevated his nose above his shawl . 
Is Monsieur complaining ? Of you ! ejaculated the man . 
The office is closed , said Gavroche , I do not receive any more complaints . 
The little girl was getting to be too old for such a thing . 
Growth does play these tricks . 
The petticoat becomes short at the moment when nudity becomes indecent . 
Poor girl ! said Gavroche . 
Hold on , take this . 
The child stared at him in astonishment , and received the shawl in silence . 
When a certain stage of distress has been reached in his misery , the poor man no longer groans over evil , no longer returns thanks for good . 
That done Brrr ! said Gavroche , who was shivering more than Saint Martin , for the latter retained one half of his cloak . 
At this brrr ! the downpour of rain , redoubled in its spite , became furious . 
The wicked skies punish good deeds . 
Ah , come now ! exclaimed Gavroche , what's the meaning of this ? It's re raining ! Good Heavens , if it goes on like this , I shall stop my subscription . 
And he set out on the march once more . 
It's all right , he resumed , casting a glance at the beggar girl , as she coiled up under the shawl , she's got a famous peel . 
And looking up at the clouds he exclaimed Caught ! The two children followed close on his heels . 
So you have neither father nor mother ? resumed Gavroche majestically . 
Excuse us , sir , we have a papa and a mamma , but we don't know where they are . 
Sometimes that's better than knowing where they are , said Gavroche , who was a thinker . 
We have been wandering about these two hours , continued the elder , we have hunted for things at the corners of the streets , but we have found nothing . 
I know , ejaculated Gavroche , it's the dogs who eat everything . 
He went on , after a pause Ah ! we have lost our authors . 
We don't know what we have done with them . 
This should not be , gamins . 
It's stupid to let old people stray off like that . 
Come now ! we must have a snooze all the same . 
However , he asked them no questions . 
Mamma told us that she would take us to get a blessed spray on Palm Sunday . 
Mamma , resumed the elder , is a lady who lives with Mamselle Miss . 
Meanwhile he had halted , and for the last two minutes he had been feeling and fumbling in all sorts of nooks which his rags contained . 
At last he tossed his head with an air intended to be merely satisfied , but which was triumphant , in reality . 
Let us be calm , young 'uns . 
And from one of his pockets he drew forth a sou . 
The baker , who was the proprietor in person , took up a loaf and a knife . 
In three pieces , my boy ! went on Gavroche . 
And he added with dignity There are three of us . 
You mean larton brutal black bread ! retorted Gavroche , calmly and coldly disdainful . 
White bread , boy ! white bread larton savonne ! I'm standing treat . 
The baker could not repress a smile , and as he cut the white bread he surveyed them in a compassionate way which shocked Gavroche . 
When the bread was cut , the baker threw the sou into his drawer , and Gavroche said to the two children Grub away . 
The little boys stared at him in surprise . 
Ah ! hullo , that's so ! they don't understand yet , they're too small . 
And he repeated Eat away . 
At the same time , he held out a piece of bread to each of them . 
One piece was smaller than the others he kept this for himself . 
The poor children , including Gavroche , were famished . 
As they tore their bread apart in big mouthfuls , they blocked up the shop of the baker , who , now that they had paid their money , looked angrily at them . 
Let's go into the street again , said Gavroche . 
They set off once more in the direction of the Bastille . 
Well , he is a very green 'un , said Gavroche . 
Then , becoming thoughtful , he muttered between his teeth All the same , if I had charge of the babes I'd lock 'em up better than that . 
Hullo , is that you , Montparnasse ? said Gavroche . 
A man had just accosted the street urchin , and the man was no other than Montparnasse in disguise , with blue spectacles , but recognizable to Gavroche . 
The bow wows ! went on Gavroche , you've got a hide the color of a linseed plaster , and blue specs like a doctor . 
You're putting on style , 'pon my word ! Hush ! ejaculated Montparnasse , not so loud . 
And he drew Gavroche hastily out of range of the lighted shops . 
The two little ones followed mechanically , holding each other by the hand . 
When they were ensconced under the arch of a portecochere , sheltered from the rain and from all eyes Do you know where I'm going ? demanded Montparnasse . 
To the Abbey of Ascend with Regret , replied Gavroche . 
Joker ! And Montparnasse went on I'm going to find Babet . 
Ah ! exclaimed Gavroche , so her name is Babet . 
Montparnasse lowered his voice Not she , he . 
I thought he was buckled . 
He has undone the buckle , replied Montparnasse . 
Gavroche expressed his admiration for this skill . 
What a dentist ! he cried . 
Montparnasse added a few details as to Babet's flight , and ended with Oh ! That's not all . 
Ah ! he exclaimed , pushing the dagger back in haste , you have brought along your gendarme disguised as a bourgeois . 
The deuce ! resumed Gavroche , so you're going to have a bout with the bobbies ? You can't tell , replied Montparnasse with an indifferent air . 
It's always a good thing to have a pin about one . 
Gavroche persisted What are you up to to night ? Again Montparnasse took a grave tone , and said , mouthing every syllable Things . 
And abruptly changing the conversation By the way ! What ? Something happened t'other day . 
He makes me a present of a sermon and his purse . 
I put it in my pocket . 
A minute later , I feel in my pocket . 
Except the sermon , said Gavroche . 
But you , went on Montparnasse , where are you bound for now ? Gavroche pointed to his two proteges , and said I'm going to put these infants to bed . 
Whereabouts is the bed ? At my house . 
Where's your house ? At my house . 
So you have a lodging ? Yes , I have . 
And where is your lodging ? In the elephant , said Gavroche . 
Montparnasse , though not naturally inclined to astonishment , could not restrain an exclamation . 
In the elephant ! Well , yes , in the elephant ! retorted Gavroche . 
Kekcaa ? This is another word of the language which no one writes , and which every one speaks . 
Kekcaa signifies Quest que c'est que cela a ? What's the matter with that ? The urchin's profound remark recalled Montparnasse to calmness and good sense . 
He appeared to return to better sentiments with regard to Gavroche's lodging . 
Of course , said he , yes , the elephant . 
Is it comfortable there ? Very , said Gavroche . 
There ain't any draughts , as there are under the bridges . 
How do you get in ? Oh , I get in . 
So there is a hole ? demanded Montparnasse . 
Parbleu ! I should say so . 
It's between the fore legs . 
The bobbies haven't seen it . 
And you climb up ? Yes , I understand . 
A turn of the hand , cric , crac , and it's all over , no one there . 
After a pause , Gavroche added I shall have a ladder for these children . 
Montparnasse burst out laughing Where the devil did you pick up those young 'uns ? Gavroche replied with great simplicity They are some brats that a wig maker made me a present of . 
Meanwhile , Montparnasse had fallen to thinking You recognized me very readily , he muttered . 
He took from his pocket two small objects which were nothing more than two quills wrapped in cotton , and thrust one up each of his nostrils . 
This gave him a different nose . 
That changes you , remarked Gavroche , you are less homely so , you ought to keep them on all the time . 
Montparnasse was a handsome fellow , but Gavroche was a tease . 
Seriously , demanded Montparnasse , how do you like me so ? The sound of his voice was different also . 
In a twinkling , Montparnasse had become unrecognizable . 
Oh ! Do play Porrichinelle for us ! exclaimed Gavroche . 
Unfortunately , Montparnasse was troubled . 
This odd phrase produced a singular effect on the gamin . 
He wheeled round hastily , darted his little sparkling eyes about him with profound attention , and perceived a police sergeant standing with his back to them a few paces off . 
Supposing that you should need me some night , you can come and hunt me up there . 
I lodge on the entresol . 
You will inquire for Monsieur Gavroche . 
Very good , said Montparnasse . 
And they parted , Montparnasse betaking himself in the direction of the Greve , and Gavroche towards the Bastille . 
The little one of five , dragged along by his brother who was dragged by Gavroche , turned his head back several times to watch Porrichinelle as he went . 
This syllable , dig , uttered alone or artistically mingled with the words of a phrase , means Take care , we can no longer talk freely . 
We say monument , although it was only a rough model . 
It was a sort of symbol of popular force . 
It was sombre , mysterious , and immense . 
It was some mighty , visible phantom , one knew not what , standing erect beside the invisible spectre of the Bastille . 
Few strangers visited this edifice , no passer by looked at it . 
It was falling into ruins every season the plaster which detached itself from its sides formed hideous wounds upon it . 
The aediles , as the expression ran in elegant dialect , had forgotten it ever since . 
It was unclean , despised , repulsive , and superb , ugly in the eyes of the bourgeois , melancholy in the eyes of the thinker . 
There was something about it of the dirt which is on the point of being swept out , and something of the majesty which is on the point of being decapitated . 
As we have said , at night , its aspect changed . 
Night is the real element of everything that is dark . 
As soon as twilight descended , the old elephant became transfigured he assumed a tranquil and redoubtable appearance in the formidable serenity of the shadows . 
Being of the past , he belonged to night and obscurity was in keeping with his grandeur . 
It is quite natural that a stove should be the symbol of an epoch in which a pot contains power . 
Harness locomotives to ideas , that is well done but do not mistake the horse for the rider . 
It was towards this corner of the place , dimly lighted by the reflection of a distant street lamp , that the gamin guided his two brats . 
This fact noted , we proceed . 
On arriving in the vicinity of the colossus , Gavroche comprehended the effect which the infinitely great might produce on the infinitely small , and said Don't be scared , infants . 
Then he entered through a gap in the fence into the elephant's enclosure and helped the young ones to clamber through the breach . 
There , extended along the fence , lay a ladder which by day served the laborers in the neighboring timber yard . 
Gavroche raised it with remarkable vigor , and placed it against one of the elephant's forelegs . 
Near the point where the ladder ended , a sort of black hole in the belly of the colossus could be distinguished . 
Gavroche pointed out the ladder and the hole to his guests , and said to them Climb up and go in . 
The two little boys exchanged terrified glances . 
You're afraid , brats ! exclaimed Gavroche . 
The little fellows nudged each other , the gamin frightened and inspired them with confidence at one and the same time , and then , it was raining very hard . 
The elder one undertook the risk . 
The younger , on seeing his brother climbing up , and himself left alone between the paws of this huge beast , felt greatly inclined to cry , but he did not dare . 
The brat had passed through the crack . 
Now , said Gavroche , wait for me . 
Be so good as to take a seat , Monsieur . 
Gavroche was at home , in fact . 
The brat had been accepted and sheltered by the colossus . 
It served to receive the innocent whom society repulsed . 
It served to diminish public crime . 
It was a lair open to one against whom all doors were shut . 
That was what the elephant of the Bastille was good for . 
This idea of Napoleon , disdained by men , had been taken back by God . 
That which had been merely illustrious , had become august . 
In order to realize his thought , the Emperor should have had porphyry , brass , iron , gold , marble the old collection of planks , beams and plaster sufficed for God . 
God had done a grander thing with it , he had lodged a child there . 
Let's begin , said Gavroche , by telling the porter that we are not at home . 
And plunging into the darkness with the assurance of a person who is well acquainted with his apartments , he took a plank and stopped up the aperture . 
Again Gavroche plunged into the obscurity . 
The children heard the crackling of the match thrust into the phosphoric bottle . 
The chemical match was not yet in existence at that epoch the Fumade steel represented progress . 
A sudden light made them blink Gavroche had just managed to ignite one of those bits of cord dipped in resin which are called cellar rats . 
The cellar rat , which emitted more smoke than light , rendered the interior of the elephant confusedly visible . 
An entire and gigantic skeleton appeared enveloping them . 
Here and there , in the corners , were visible large blackish spots which had the appearance of being alive , and which changed places rapidly with an abrupt and frightened movement . 
Fragments which had fallen from the elephant's back into his belly had filled up the cavity , so that it was possible to walk upon it as on a floor . 
The smaller child nestled up against his brother , and whispered to him It's black . 
This remark drew an exclamation from Gavroche . 
The petrified air of the two brats rendered some shock necessary . 
What's that you are gabbling about there ? he exclaimed . 
Ah , come now , are you brats from the Pope's establishment ? A little roughness is good in cases of fear . 
The two children drew close to Gavroche . 
And he pushed them towards what we are very glad to be able to call the end of the room . 
Gavroche's bed was complete that is to say , it had a mattress , a blanket , and an alcove with curtains . 
The mattress was a straw mat , the blanket a rather large strip of gray woollen stuff , very warm and almost new . 
A row of very heavy stones kept this network down to the floor so that nothing could pass under it . 
This grating was nothing else than a piece of the brass screens with which aviaries are covered in menageries . 
Gavroche's bed stood as in a cage , behind this net . 
The whole resembled an Esquimaux tent . 
This trellis work took the place of curtains . 
Gavroche moved aside the stones which fastened the net down in front , and the two folds of the net which lapped over each other fell apart . 
Down on all fours , brats ! said Gavroche . 
He made his guests enter the cage with great precaution , then he crawled in after them , pulled the stones together , and closed the opening hermetically again . 
All three had stretched out on the mat . 
Gavroche still had the cellar rat in his hand . 
Now , said he , go to sleep ! I'm going to suppress the candelabra . 
Monsieur , the elder of the brothers asked Gavroche , pointing to the netting , what's that for ? That , answered Gavroche gravely , is for the rats . 
It's used for fierce animals . 
There's a whole shopful of them there . 
All you've got to do is to climb over a wall , crawl through a window , and pass through a door . 
You can get as much as you want . 
That's from the Jardin des Plantes , too , said he . 
I took that from the monkeys . 
And , pointing out to the eldest the mat on which he was lying , a very thick and admirably made mat , he added That belonged to the giraffe . 
After a pause he went on The beasts had all these things . 
I took them away from them . 
I told them It's for the elephant . 
He paused , and then resumed You crawl over the walls and you don't care a straw for the government . 
Monsieur , ventured the elder timidly , you are not afraid of the police , then ? Gavroche contented himself with replying Brat ! Nobody says police , they say bobbies . 
The smaller had his eyes wide open , but he said nothing . 
The two poor little children who had been soaked through , began to grow warm once more . 
Gracious , replied the child , we have no lodging . 
Bother ! retorted Gavroche , you don't say lodgings , you say crib . 
And then , we were afraid of being alone like that at night . 
You don't say night , you say darkmans . 
Thank you , sir , said the child . 
Listen , went on Gavroche , you must never bawl again over anything . 
I'll take care of you . 
You shall see what fun we'll have . 
They scream , they get mad , and if you only knew how ridiculous they are ! We'll go and see the man skeleton . 
And then I'll take you to the play . 
I'll take you to see Frederick Lemaitre . 
I have tickets , I know some of the actors , I even played in a piece once . 
There were a lot of us fellers , and we ran under a cloth , and that made the sea . 
I'll get you an engagement at my theatre . 
We'll go to see the savages . 
They ain't real , those savages ain't . 
They wear pink tights that go all in wrinkles , and you can see where their elbows have been darned with white . 
Then , we'll go to the Opera . 
We'll get in with the hired applauders . 
The Opera claque is well managed . 
I wouldn't associate with the claque on the boulevard . 
At the Opera , just fancy ! some of them pay twenty sous , but they're ninnies . 
And then we'll go to see the guillotine work . 
I'll show you the executioner . 
He lives in the Rue des Marais . 
He has a letter box at his door . 
Ah ! we'll have famous fun ! At that moment a drop of wax fell on Gavroche's finger , and recalled him to the realities of life . 
The deuce ! said he , there's the wick giving out . 
Attention ! I can't spend more than a sou a month on my lighting . 
When a body goes to bed , he must sleep . 
We haven't the time to read M. Paul de Kock's romances . 
And besides , the light might pass through the cracks of the porte cochere , and all the bobbies need to do is to see it . 
People don't say burn the house down , remarked Gavroche , they say blaze the crib . 
The storm increased in violence , and the heavy downpour beat upon the back of the colossus amid claps of thunder . 
You're taken in , rain ! said Gavroche . 
It amuses me to hear the decanter run down the legs of the house . 
Almost at the same instant , the thunder rumbled with great fury . 
Don't topple over the edifice . 
That's fine , first class thunder all right . 
That's no slouch of a streak of lightning . 
Bravo for the good God ! Deuce take it ! It's almost as good as it is at the Ambigu . 
Now , babes , now , my young humans , you must shut your peepers . 
It's very bad not to sleep . 
It'll make you swallow the strainer , or , as they say , in fashionable society , stink in the gullet . 
Wrap yourself up well in the hide ! I'm going to put out the light . 
Are you ready ? Yes , murmured the elder , I'm all right . 
I seem to have feathers under my head . 
People don't say head , cried Gavroche , they say nut' . 
Hardly had the light been extinguished , when a peculiar trembling began to affect the netting under which the three children lay . 
It consisted of a multitude of dull scratches which produced a metallic sound , as if claws and teeth were gnawing at the copper wire . 
This was accompanied by all sorts of little piercing cries . 
What is that ? It's the rats , replied Gavroche . 
And he laid his head down on the mat again . 
Still the little one could not sleep . 
Sir ? he began again . 
What are rats ? They are mice . 
This explanation reassured the child a little . 
He had seen white mice in the course of his life , and he was not afraid of them . 
Nevertheless , he lifted up his voice once more . 
Sir ? Hey ? said Gavroche again . 
Why don't you have a cat ? I did have one , replied Gavroche , I brought one here , but they ate her . 
This second explanation undid the work of the first , and the little fellow began to tremble again . 
The dialogue between him and Gavroche began again for the fourth time Monsieur ? Hey ? Who was it that was eaten ? The cat . 
And who ate the cat ? The rats . 
The mice ? Yes , the rats . 
The child , in consternation , dismayed at the thought of mice which ate cats , pursued Sir , would those mice eat us ? Wouldn't they just ! ejaculated Gavroche . 
The child's terror had reached its climax . 
But Gavroche added Don't be afraid . 
And besides , I'm here ! Here , catch hold of my hand . 
Hold your tongue and shut your peepers ! At the same time Gavroche grasped the little fellow's hand across his brother . 
The child pressed the hand close to him , and felt reassured . 
Courage and strength have these mysterious ways of communicating themselves . 
The hours of the night fled away . 
Darkness covered the vast Place de la Bastille . 
If any light had illuminated that man , it might have been divined from the thorough manner in which he was soaked that he had passed the night in the rain . 
Arrived beneath the elephant , he uttered a peculiar cry , which did not belong to any human tongue , and which a paroquet alone could have imitated . 
As for his cry of Kirikikiou , that was , doubtless , what the child had meant , when he said You will ask for Monsieur Gavroche . 
The man and the child recognized each other silently amid the gloom Montparnasse confined himself to the remark We need you . 
Come , lend us a hand . 
The lad asked for no further enlightenment . 
I'm with you , said he . 
Babet had arranged the matter for his own benefit , on the same day , as the reader has seen from Montparnasse's account to Gavroche . 
Montparnasse was to help them from outside . 
A little light penetrates towards mid day . 
The inconvenient point about these chambers which , as the reader sees , are not dungeons , is that they allow the persons who should be at work to think . 
So Brujon meditated , and he emerged from the chamber of punishment with a rope . 
As he had the name of being very dangerous in the Charlemagne courtyard , he was placed in the New Building . 
His glance resulted from his will , and his smile from his nature . 
His first studies in his art had been directed to roofs . 
He had made great progress in the industry of the men who tear off lead , who plunder the roofs and despoil the gutters by the process called double pickings . 
The Saint Bernard courtyard was no longer absolutely isolated from the Charlemagne and the Saint Louis courts . 
Up above there were scaffoldings and ladders in other words , bridges and stairs in the direction of liberty . 
The New Building , which was the most cracked and decrepit thing to be seen anywhere in the world , was the weak point in the prison . 
The New Building contained four dormitories , one above the other , and a top story which was called the Bel Air . 
Guelemer and Brujon were in the same dormitory . 
They had been placed , by way of precaution , on the lower story . 
Chance ordained that the heads of their beds should rest against the chimney . 
Thenardier was directly over their heads in the top story known as Fine Air . 
Not more than ten years ago , there rose above that rotunda an enormous black , hideous , bare wall by which it was backed up . 
This was the outer wall of La Force . 
This wall , beside that rotunda , was Milton viewed through Berquin . 
Lofty as it was , this wall was overtopped by a still blacker roof , which could be seen beyond . 
This was the roof of the New Building . 
There one could descry four dormer windows , guarded with bars they were the windows of the Fine Air . 
A chimney pierced the roof this was the chimney which traversed the dormitories . 
Thenardier had been in solitary confinement in one of these cages since the night of the d of February . 
The rubbish fell on Brujon's bed , so that they were not heard . 
Showers mingled with thunder shook the doors on their hinges , and created in the prison a terrible and opportune uproar . 
Those of the prisoners who woke , pretended to fall asleep again , and left Guelemer and Brujon to their own devices . 
Brujon was adroit Guelemer was vigorous . 
The wind and rain redoubled , the roof was slippery . 
What a good night to leg it ! said Brujon . 
An abyss six feet broad and eighty feet deep separated them from the surrounding wall . 
At the bottom of this abyss , they could see the musket of a sentinel gleaming through the gloom . 
Three quarters of an hour had not elapsed since they had risen in bed in the dark , nail in hand , and their project in their heads . 
A few moments later they had joined Babet and Montparnasse , who were prowling about the neighborhood . 
They had broken their rope in pulling it after them , and a bit of it remained attached to the chimney on the roof . 
They had sustained no other damage , however , than that of scratching nearly all the skin off their hands . 
That night , Thenardier was warned , without any one being able to explain how , and was not asleep . 
One halted at the window , long enough to dart in a glance . 
Thenardier recognized him , and understood . 
Thenardier , rated as a burglar , and detained as a measure of precaution under the charge of organizing a nocturnal ambush , with armed force , was kept in sight . 
The sentry , who was relieved every two hours , marched up and down in front of his cage with loaded musket . 
The Fine Air was lighted by a skylight . 
The prisoner had on his feet fetters weighing fifty pounds . 
This man and his dogs made two visits during the night . 
As Thenardier was kept in sight , no objection had been made to this spike . 
Still , it was remembered afterwards , that one of the jailers had said It would be better to let him have only a wooden spike . 
At two o'clock in the morning , the sentinel , who was an old soldier , was relieved , and replaced by a conscript . 
Two hours afterwards , at four o'clock , when they came to relieve the conscript , he was found asleep on the floor , lying like a log near Thenardier's cage . 
As for Thenardier , he was no longer there . 
There was a hole in the ceiling of his cage , and , above it , another hole in the roof . 
One of the planks of his bed had been wrenched off , and probably carried away with him , as it was not found . 
They also seized in his cell a half empty bottle which contained the remains of the stupefying wine with which the soldier had been drugged . 
The soldier's bayonet had disappeared . 
At the moment when this discovery was made , it was assumed that Thenardier was out of reach . 
The truth is , that he was no longer in the New Building , but that he was still in great danger . 
When one turns from the Rue des Ballets into the Rue du Roi de Sicile , one almost immediately encounters a repulsive ruin . 
Through these windows there was formerly visible a lofty and lugubrious wall , which was a fragment of the outer wall of La Force . 
The empty space on the street left by the demolished house is half filled by a fence of rotten boards , shored up by five stone posts . 
In this recess lies concealed a little shanty which leans against the portion of the ruin which has remained standing . 
The fence has a gate , which , a few years ago , was fastened only by a latch . 
It was the crest of this ruin that Thenardier had succeeded in reaching , a little after one o'clock in the morning . 
How had he got there ? That is what no one has ever been able to explain or understand . 
The lightning must , at the same time , have hindered and helped him . 
In two manners , flight was impossible . 
The marvels of escape cannot always be accounted for . 
A steep escarpment three stories high separated him from the pavement of the street . 
The rope which he had was too short . 
He asked himself whether his three accomplices in flight had succeeded , if they had heard him , and if they would come to his assistance . 
With the exception of the patrol , no one had passed through the street since he had been there . 
Nearly the whole of the descent of the market gardeners from Montreuil , from Charonne , from Vincennes , and from Bercy to the markets was accomplished through the Rue Saint Antoine . 
A few moments later , that terrified and confused uproar which follows the discovery of an escape broke forth in the prison . 
Their helmets , which the torch lighted up in the rain , went and came along the roofs . 
At the same time , Thenardier perceived in the direction of the Bastille a wan whiteness lighting up the edge of the sky in doleful wise . 
Here this man was joined by a second , who walked with the same caution , then by a third , then by a fourth . 
When these men were re united , one of them lifted the latch of the gate in the fence , and all four entered the enclosure in which the shanty stood . 
They halted directly under Thenardier . 
It must be added , that the rain kept this sentinel blocked in his box . 
Thenardier , not being able to distinguish their visages , lent an ear to their words with the desperate attention of a wretch who feels himself lost . 
Thenardier saw something resembling a gleam of hope flash before his eyes , these men conversed in slang . 
The first said in a low but distinct voice Let's cut . 
What are we up to here ? The second replied It's raining hard enough to put out the very devil's fire . 
And the bobbies will be along instanter . 
There's a soldier on guard yonder . 
We shall get nabbed here . 
The antique slang of the great century is no longer spoken except in the Temple , and Babet was really the only person who spoke it in all its purity . 
Had it not been for the icicaille , Thenardier would not have recognized him , for he had entirely changed his voice . 
In the meanwhile , the third man had intervened . 
There's no hurry yet , let's wait a bit . 
As for the fourth , he held his peace , but his huge shoulders betrayed him . 
Brujon replied almost impetuously but still in a low tone What are you jabbering about ? The tavern keeper hasn't managed to cut his stick . 
You have to be knowing . 
He must have let himself be taken in by a bobby , perhaps even by a sheep who played it on him as his pal . 
Listen , Montparnasse , do you hear those shouts in the prison ? You have seen all those lights . 
He's recaptured , there ! He'll get off with twenty years . 
I ain't afraid , I ain't a coward , but there ain't anything more to do , or otherwise they'd lead us a dance . 
Don't get mad , come with us , let's go drink a bottle of old wine together . 
One doesn't desert one's friends in a scrape , grumbled Montparnasse . 
I tell you he's nabbed ! retorted Brujon . 
At the present moment , the inn keeper ain't worth a ha'penny . 
We can't do nothing for him . 
Every minute I think a bobby has got me in his fist . 
Montparnasse himself , who was , perhaps , almost Thenardier's son in law , yielded . 
A moment more , and they would be gone . 
Thenardier was panting on his wall like the shipwrecked sufferers of the Meduse on their raft when they beheld the vessel which had appeared in sight vanish on the horizon . 
He dared not call to them a cry might be heard and ruin everything . 
This rope fell at their feet . 
A widow , said Babet . 
My tortouse ! said Brujon . 
The tavern keeper is there , said Montparnasse . 
Thenardier thrust out his head a very little . 
Quick ! said Montparnasse , have you the other end of the rope , Brujon ? Yes . 
Knot the two pieces together , we'll fling him the rope , he can fasten it to the wall , and he'll have enough of it to get down with . 
Thenardier ran the risk , and spoke I am paralyzed with cold . 
Let yourself slide , we'll catch you . 
Only fasten the rope to the wall . 
Then one of us must climb up , said Montparnasse . 
Three stories ! ejaculated Brujon . 
This flue , then much damaged and full of cracks , has since fallen , but the marks of it are still visible . 
One might get up by the help of that , said Montparnasse . 
By that flue ? exclaimed Babet , a grown up cove , never ! it would take a brat . 
A brat must be got , resumed Brujon . 
Where are we to find a young 'un ? said Guelemer . 
I've got the very article . 
The rain still rendered the street completely deserted . 
Little Gavroche entered the enclosure and gazed at the forms of these ruffians with a tranquil air . 
The water was dripping from his hair . 
Guelemer addressed him Are you a man , young 'un ? Gavroche shrugged his shoulders , and replied A young 'un like me's a man , and men like you are babes . 
The brat's tongue's well hung ! exclaimed Babet . 
The Paris brat ain't made of straw , added Brujon . 
What do you want ? asked Gavroche . 
Montparnasse answered Climb up that flue . 
With this rope , said Babet . 
And fasten it , continued Brujon . 
To the top of the wall , went on Babet . 
To the cross bar of the window , added Brujon . 
And then ? said Gavroche . 
Will you ? began Brujon again . 
Greenhorn ! replied the lad , as though the question appeared a most unprecedented one to him . 
And he took off his shoes . 
The gamin directed his steps towards the flue , which it was easy to enter , thanks to a large crack which touched the roof . 
Hullo ! it's my father ! Oh , that won't hinder . 
And taking the rope in his teeth , he resolutely began the ascent . 
He reached the summit of the hut , bestrode the old wall as though it had been a horse . 
and knotted the rope firmly to the upper cross bar of the window . 
A moment later , Thenardier was in the street . 
To eat , true sense to devour . 
Let's get well into a corner , said Brujon . 
Let's settle it in three words , and part at once . 
There was an affair that promised well in the Rue Plumet , a deserted street , an isolated house , an old rotten gate on a garden , and lone women . 
Well ! why not ? demanded Thenardier . 
Your girl , Eponine , went to see about the matter , replied Babet . 
And she brought a biscuit to Magnon , added Guelemer . 
Nothing to be made there . 
The girl's no fool , said Thenardier . 
Still , it must be seen to . 
Yes , yes , said Brujon , it must be looked up . 
I must go and get my brats out of bed . 
The five men emerged , one after another , from the enclosure . 
When Gavroche had disappeared at the corner of the Rue des Ballets , Babet took Thenardier aside . 
Did you take a good look at that young 'un ? he asked . 
What young 'un ? The one who climbed the wall and carried you the rope . 
Well , I don't know , but it strikes me that it was your son . 
Bah ! said Thenardier , do you think so ? BOOK SEVENTH . 
SLANG CHAPTER I ORIGIN Pigritia is a terrible word . 
It engenders a whole world , la pegre , for which read theft , and a hell , la pegrenne , for which read hunger . 
Thus , idleness is the mother . 
She has a son , theft , and a daughter , hunger . 
Where are we at this moment ? In the land of slang . 
What is slang ? It is at one and the same time , a nation and a dialect it is theft in its two kinds people and language . 
What ! How ! Argot ! Why , argot is horrible ! It is the language of prisons , galleys , convicts , of everything that is most abominable in society ! etc . 
The Last Day of a Condemned Man . 
We have never understood this sort of objections . 
People repeated What do authors mean by that revolting dialect ? Slang is odious ! Slang makes one shudder ! Who denies that ? Of course it does . 
Nothing is more lugubrious than the contemplation thus in its nudity , in the broad light of thought , of the horrible swarming of slang . 
It seems , in fact , to be a sort of horrible beast made for the night which has just been torn from its cesspool . 
One thinks one beholds a frightful , living , and bristling thicket which quivers , rustles , wavers , returns to shadow , threatens and glares . 
One word resembles a claw , another an extinguished and bleeding eye , such and such a phrase seems to move like the claw of a crab . 
All this is alive with the hideous vitality of things which have been organized out of disorganization . 
He would be like a philologist refusing to examine a fact in language , a philosopher hesitating to scrutinize a fact in humanity . 
For , it must be stated to those who are ignorant of the case , that argot is both a literary phenomenon and a social result . 
What is slang , properly speaking ? It is the language of wretchedness . 
The painter who says My grinder , the notary who says My Skip the Gutter , the hairdresser who says My mealyback , the cobbler who says My cub , talks slang . 
There is the slang of the affected lady as well as of the precieuses . 
The Hotel Rambouillet nearly adjoins the Cour des Miracles . 
Diplomatic ciphers are slang the pontifical chancellery by using for Rome , grkztntgzyal for despatch , and abfxustgrnogrkzu tu XI . 
for the Due de Modena , speaks slang . 
The physicians of the Middle Ages who , for carrot , radish , and turnip , said Opoponach , perfroschinum , reptitalmus , dracatholicum , angelorum , postmegorum , talked slang . 
The sugar manufacturer who says Loaf , clarified , lumps , bastard , common , burnt , this honest manufacturer talks slang . 
A certain school of criticism twenty years ago , which used to say Half of the works of Shakespeare consists of plays upon words and puns , talked slang . 
Algebra , medicine , botany , have each their slang . 
Vous trouverez dans ces potains la , une foultitude de raisons pour que je me libertise . 
But say what we will , this manner of understanding the word slang is an extension which every one will not admit . 
For our part , we reserve to the word its ancient and precise , circumscribed and determined significance , and we restrict slang to slang . 
To meet the needs of this conflict , wretchedness has invented a language of combat , which is slang . 
Here objections spring up afresh . 
It is the language which has been spoken , in France , for example , for more than four centuries , not only by a misery , but by every possible human misery . 
The historian of manners and ideas has no less austere a mission than the historian of events . 
The history of manners and ideas permeates the history of events , and this is true reciprocally . 
They constitute two different orders of facts which correspond to each other , which are always interlaced , and which often bring forth results . 
True history being a mixture of all things , the true historian mingles in everything . 
Man is not a circle with a single centre he is an ellipse with a double focus . 
Facts form one of these , and ideas the other . 
Slang is nothing but a dressing room where the tongue having some bad action to perform , disguises itself . 
There it clothes itself in word masks , in metaphor rags . 
In this guise it becomes horrible . 
One finds it difficult to recognize . 
When one listens , by the side of honest men , at the portals of society , one overhears the dialogues of those who are on the outside . 
One distinguishes questions and replies . 
One perceives , without understanding it , a hideous murmur , sounding almost like human accents , but more nearly resembling a howl than an articulate word . 
The words are misshapen and stamped with an indescribable and fantastic bestiality . 
One thinks one hears hydras talking . 
It is unintelligible in the dark . 
It gnashes and whispers , completing the gloom with mystery . 
It is black in misfortune , it is blacker still in crime these two blacknesses amalgamated , compose slang . 
Obscurity in the atmosphere , obscurity in acts , obscurity in voices . 
Let us have compassion on the chastised . 
Who knows whether man is not a recaptured offender against divine justice ? Look closely at life . 
It is so made , that everywhere we feel the sense of punishment . 
Are you what is called a happy man ? Well ! you are sad every day . 
Each day has its own great grief or its little care . 
This without reckoning in the pains of the heart . 
And so it goes on . 
One cloud is dispelled , another forms . 
There is hardly one day out of a hundred which is wholly joyous and sunny . 
And you belong to that small class who are happy ! As for the rest of mankind , stagnating night rests upon them . 
Thoughtful minds make but little use of the phrase the fortunate and the unfortunate . 
In this world , evidently the vestibule of another , there are no fortunate . 
The real human division is this the luminous and the shady . 
To diminish the number of the shady , to augment the number of the luminous , that is the object . 
That is why we cry Education ! science ! To teach reading , means to light the fire every syllable spelled out sparkles . 
However , he who says light does not , necessarily , say joy . 
People suffer in the light excess burns . 
The flame is the enemy of the wing . 
To burn without ceasing to fly , therein lies the marvel of genius . 
When you shall have learned to know , and to love , you will still suffer . 
The day is born in tears . 
The luminous weep , if only over those in darkness . 
CHAPTER II ROOTS Slang is the tongue of those who sit in darkness . 
Thought is moved in its most sombre depths , social philosophy is bidden to its most poignant meditations , in the presence of that enigmatic dialect at once so blighted and rebellious . 
Therein lies chastisement made visible . 
Every syllable has an air of being marked . 
The words of the vulgar tongue appear therein wrinkled and shrivelled , as it were , beneath the hot iron of the executioner . 
Some seem to be still smoking . 
Such and such a phrase produces upon you the effect of the shoulder of a thief branded with the fleur de lys , which has suddenly been laid bare . 
Ideas almost refuse to be expressed in these substantives which are fugitives from justice . 
Metaphor is sometimes so shameless , that one feels that it has worn the iron neck fetter . 
Slang , whether the public admit the fact or not has its syntax and its poetry . 
That exquisite and celebrated verse Mais ou sont les neiges d'antan ? But where are the snows of years gone by ? is a verse of slang . 
Antam ante annum is a word of Thunes slang , which signified the past year , and by extension , formerly . 
This means Kings in days gone by always went and had themselves anointed . 
In the opinion of that king , anointment meant the galleys . 
The word decarade , which expresses the departure of heavy vehicles at a gallop , is attributed to Villon , and it is worthy of him . 
This word , which strikes fire with all four of its feet , sums up in a masterly onomatopoeia the whole of La Fontaine's admirable verse Six forts chevaux tiraient un coche . 
Six stout horses drew a coach . 
From a purely literary point of view , few studies would prove more curious and fruitful than the study of slang . 
This is what may be called the first , the vulgar aspect of slang . 
But , for those who study the tongue as it should be studied , that is to say , as geologists study the earth , slang appears like a veritable alluvial deposit . 
A profound and unique formation . 
A subterranean edifice erected in common by all the miserable . 
Each accursed race has deposited its layer , each suffering has dropped its stone there , each heart has contributed its pebble . 
Do you want Spanish ? The old Gothic slang abounded in it . 
, which comes from vantana gat , cat , which comes from gato acite , oil , which comes from aceyte . 
Do you want Italian ? Here is spade , sword , which comes from spada carvel , boat , which comes from caravella . 
Do you want German ? Here is the caleur , the waiter , kellner the hers , the master , herzog . 
Do you want Latin ? Here is frangir , to break , frangere affurer , to steal , fur cadene , chain , catena . 
There is one word which crops up in every language of the continent , with a sort of mysterious power and authority . 
Would you like Basque ? Here is gahisto , the devil , which comes from gaiztoa , evil sorgabon , good night , which comes from gabon , good evening . 
Finally , would you like history ? Slang calls crowns les malteses , a souvenir of the coin in circulation on the galleys of Malta . 
It must be observed , however , that mac in Celtic means son . 
In addition to the philological origins just indicated , slang possesses other and still more natural roots , which spring , so to speak , from the mind of man itself . 
In the first place , the direct creation of words . 
Therein lies the mystery of tongues . 
To paint with words , which contains figures one knows not how or why , is the primitive foundation of all human languages , what may be called their granite . 
Nothing is stranger than these words which both mask and reveal . 
Some , le rabouin , for example , are at the same time grotesque and terrible , and produce on you the effect of a cyclopean grimace . 
ln the second place , metaphor . 
The peculiarity of a language which is desirous of saying all yet concealing all is that it is rich in figures . 
Metaphor is an enigma , wherein the thief who is plotting a stroke , the prisoner who is arranging an escape , take refuge . 
Sometimes , in proportion as slang progresses from the first epoch to the second , words pass from the primitive and savage sense to the metaphorical sense . 
, who puts the bread into the oven . 
This is more witty , but less grand , something like Racine after Corneille , like Euripides after AEschylus . 
Certain slang phrases which participate in the two epochs and have at once the barbaric character and the metaphorical character resemble phantasmagories . 
Les sorgueuers vont solliciter des gails a la lune the prowlers are going to steal horses by night , this passes before the mind like a group of spectres . 
One knows not what one sees . 
In the third place , the expedient . 
Slang lives on the language . 
Le dab est sinve , la dabuge est merloussiere , la fee est bative , the bourgeois is stupid , the bourgeoise is cunning , the daughter is pretty . 
The termination in mar has been added recently . 
Slang , being the dialect of corruption , quickly becomes corrupted itself . 
Besides this , as it is always seeking concealment , as soon as it feels that it is understood , it changes its form . 
Contrary to what happens with every other vegetation , every ray of light which falls upon it kills whatever it touches . 
Thus slang is in constant process of decomposition and recomposition an obscure and rapid work which never pauses . 
It passes over more ground in ten years than a language in ten centuries . 
, frusques la chique , l'egrugeoir le colabre , le colas . 
, then coquers , then cognes the executioner is le taule , then Charlot , l'atigeur , then le becquillard . 
In the seventeenth century , to fight was to give each other snuff in the nineteenth it is to chew each other's throats . 
There have been twenty different phrases between these two extremes . 
Cartouche's talk would have been Hebrew to Lacenaire . 
All the words of this language are perpetually engaged in flight like the men who utter them . 
Still , from time to time , and in consequence of this very movement , the ancient slang crops up again and becomes new once more . 
It has its headquarters where it maintains its sway . 
The Temple preserved the slang of the seventeenth century Bicetre , when it was a prison , preserved the slang of Thunes . 
There one could hear the termination in anche of the old Thuneurs . 
, do you drink ? But perpetual movement remains its law , nevertheless . 
If the philosopher succeeds in fixing , for a moment , for purposes of observation , this language which is incessantly evaporating , he falls into doleful and useful meditation . 
No study is more efficacious and more fecund in instruction . 
There is not a metaphor , not an analogy , in slang , which does not contain a lesson . 
Among these men , to beat means to feign one beats a malady ruse is their strength . 
For them , the idea of the man is not separated from the idea of darkness . 
The night is called la sorgue man , l'orgue . 
Man is a derivative of the night . 
A man under arrest is a sick man one who is condemned is a dead man . 
The most terrible thing for the prisoner within the four walls in which he is buried , is a sort of glacial chastity , and he calls the dungeon the castus . 
In that funereal place , life outside always presents itself under its most smiling aspect . 
A name is a centre profound assimilation . 
What are the galleys ? A brazier of damnation , a hell . 
The convict calls himself a fagot . 
And finally , what name do malefactors give to their prison ? The college . 
A whole penitentiary system can be evolved from that word . 
This cellar was eight feet below the level of the Seine . 
It had neither windows nor air holes , its only aperture was the door men could enter there , air could not . 
This vault had for ceiling a vault of stone , and for floor ten inches of mud . 
It was flagged but the pavement had rotted and cracked under the oozing of the water . 
In this vault , men who had been condemned to the galleys were incarcerated until the day of their departure for Toulon . 
They were thrust under this beam , where each one found his fetters swinging in the darkness and waiting for him . 
The chains , those pendant arms , and the necklets , those open hands , caught the unhappy wretches by the throat . 
They were rivetted and left there . 
As the chain was too short , they could not lie down . 
In order to eat , they pushed the bread , which was flung to them in the mud , along their leg with their heel until it reached their hand . 
How long did they remain thus ? One month , two months , six months sometimes one stayed a year . 
It was the antechamber of the galleys . 
Men were put there for stealing a hare from the king . 
In the waters of Malta , when a galley was approaching , the song could be heard before the sound of the oars . 
Poor Survincent , the poacher , who had gone through the prison cellar of the Chatelet , said It was the rhymes that kept me up . 
What is the good of rhyme ? It is in this cellar that nearly all the slang songs had their birth . 
It is from the dungeon of the Grand Chatelet of Paris that comes the melancholy refrain of the Montgomery galley Timaloumisaine , timaloumison . 
The majority of these Icicaille est la theatre Here is the theatre Du petit dardant . 
Do what you will , you cannot annihilate that eternal relic in the heart of man , love . 
In this world of dismal deeds , people keep their secrets . 
The secret is the thing above all others . 
The secret , in the eyes of these wretches , is unity which serves as a base of union . 
To betray a secret is to tear from each member of this fierce community something of his own personality . 
To inform against , in the energetic slang dialect , is called to eat the bit . 
As though the informer drew to himself a little of the substance of all and nourished himself on a bit of each one's flesh . 
What does it signify to receive a box on the ear ? Commonplace metaphor replies It is to see thirty six candles . 
Here slang intervenes and takes it up Candle , camoufle . 
Thereupon , the ordinary tongue gives camouflet as the synonym for soufflet . 
Smoke puffed in the face of a person asleep . 
Researches in slang mean discoveries at every step . 
Study and investigation of this strange idiom lead to the mysterious point of intersection of regular society with society which is accursed . 
The thief also has his food for cannon , stealable matter , you , I , whoever passes by le pantre . 
Slang is language turned convict . 
The eight of clubs , for instance , represented a huge tree bearing eight enormous trefoil leaves , a sort of fantastic personification of the forest . 
The diverse forms assumed by thought in the realm of slang , even song , even raillery , even menace , all partook of this powerless and dejected character . 
All the songs , the melodies of some of which have been collected , were humble and lamentable to the point of evoking tears . 
The pegre is always the poor pegre , and he is always the hare in hiding , the fugitive mouse , the flying bird . 
Je n'entrave que le dail comment meck , le daron des orgues , peut atiger ses momes et ses momignards et les locher criblant sans etre agite lui meme . 
Towards the middle of the last century a change took place , prison songs and thieves' ritournelles assumed , so to speak , an insolent and jovial mien . 
The plaintive malure was replaced by the larifla . 
We find in the eighteenth century , in nearly all the songs of the galleys and prisons , a diabolical and enigmatical gayety . 
This was sung in a cellar or in a nook of the forest while cutting a man's throat . 
In the eighteenth century , the ancient melancholy of the dejected classes vanishes . 
They rally the grand meg and the grand dab . 
they call the King of France le Marquis de Pantin . 
And behold , they are almost gay . 
A sort of gleam proceeds from these miserable wretches , as though their consciences were not heavy within them any more . 
These lamentable tribes of darkness have no longer merely the desperate audacity of actions , they possess the heedless audacity of mind . 
A sign that they are losing the sense of their criminality , and that they feel , even among thinkers and dreamers , some indefinable support which the latter themselves know not of . 
A sign , in short , of some outbreak which is prodigious and near unless some diversion shall arise . 
Let us pause a moment . 
Whom are we accusing here ? Is it the eighteenth century ? Is it philosophy ? Certainly not . 
The work of the eighteenth century is healthy and good and wholesome . 
Humanity's immense advance towards the light is due to them . 
They are the four vanguards of the human race , marching towards the four cardinal points of progress . 
Diderot towards the beautiful , Turgot towards the useful , Voltaire towards the true , Rousseau towards the just . 
But by the side of and above the philosophers , there were the sophists , a venomous vegetation mingled with a healthy growth , hemlock in the virgin forest . 
Some of these publications , odd to say , which were patronized by a prince , are to be found in the Secret Library . 
These facts , significant but unknown , were imperceptible on the surface . 
Sometimes , in the very obscurity of a fact lurks its danger . 
It is obscure because it is underhand . 
Of all these writers , the one who probably then excavated in the masses the most unhealthy gallery was Restif de La Bretonne . 
This work , peculiar to the whole of Europe , effected more ravages in Germany than anywhere else . 
Whenever a fact of this sort presents itself , the case is grave . 
The scrutiny of hatred is a terrible thing . 
Jacqueries are earthquakes of the people . 
It is this peril , possibly imminent towards the close of the eighteenth century , which the French Revolution , that immense act of probity , cut short . 
It put a stop to torture , promulgated the truth , expelled miasma , rendered the century healthy , crowned the populace . 
It may be said of it that it created man a second time , by giving him a second soul , the right . 
The nineteenth century has inherited and profited by its work , and to day , the social catastrophe to which we lately alluded is simply impossible . 
Blind is he who announces it ! Foolish is he who fears it ! Revolution is the vaccine of Jacquerie . 
Thanks to the Revolution , social conditions have changed . 
Feudal and monarchical maladies no longer run in our blood . 
There is no more of the Middle Ages in our constitution . 
The revolutionary sense is a moral sense . 
The sentiment of right , once developed , develops the sentiment of duty . 
The law of all is liberty , which ends where the liberty of others begins , according to Robespierre's admirable definition . 
Hence incorruptibility hence the miscarriage of unhealthy lusts hence eyes heroically lowered before temptations . 
The revolutionary wholesomeness is such , that on a day of deliverance , a th of July , a th of August , there is no longer any populace . 
The first cry of the enlightened and increasing throngs is death to thieves ! Progress is an honest man the ideal and the absolute do not filch pocket handkerchiefs . 
By whom were the wagons containing the wealth of the Tuileries escorted in ? By the rag pickers of the Faubourg Saint Antoine . 
Rags mounted guard over the treasure . 
Virtue rendered these tatterdemalions resplendent . 
Barefooted , they guarded that crown . 
Hence , no more Jacquerie . 
I regret it for the sake of the skilful . 
The old fear has produced its last effects in that quarter and henceforth it can no longer be employed in politics . 
The principal spring of the red spectre is broken . 
Every one knows it now . 
The scare crow scares no longer . 
The birds take liberties with the mannikin , foul creatures alight upon it , the bourgeois laugh at it . 
CHAPTER IV THE TWO DUTIES TO WATCH AND TO HOPE This being the case , is all social danger dispelled ? Certainly not . 
There is no Jacquerie society may rest assured on that point blood will no longer rush to its head . 
But let society take heed to the manner in which it breathes . 
Apoplexy is no longer to be feared , but phthisis is there . 
Social phthisis is called misery . 
One can perish from being undermined as well as from being struck by lightning . 
And , let us say it , all this is but the beginning . 
The true question is this labor cannot be a law without being a right . 
We will not insist upon this point this is not the proper place for that . 
If nature calls itself Providence , society should call itself foresight . 
Intellectual and moral growth is no less indispensable than material improvement . 
To know is a sacrament , to think is the prime necessity , truth is nourishment as well as grain . 
A reason which fasts from science and wisdom grows thin . 
Let us enter equal complaint against stomachs and minds which do not eat . 
If there is anything more heart breaking than a body perishing for lack of bread , it is a soul which is dying from hunger for the light . 
The whole of progress tends in the direction of solution . 
Some day we shall be amazed . 
As the human race mounts upward , the deep layers emerge naturally from the zone of distress . 
The obliteration of misery will be accomplished by a simple elevation of level . 
We should do wrong were we to doubt this blessed consummation . 
The past is very strong , it is true , at the present moment . 
This rejuvenation of a corpse is surprising . 
Behold , it is walking and advancing . 
It seems a victor this dead body is a conqueror . 
He arrives with his legions , superstitions , with his sword , despotism , with his banner , ignorance a while ago , he won ten battles . 
He advances , he threatens , he laughs , he is at our doors . 
Let us not despair , on our side . 
Let us sell the field on which Hannibal is encamped . 
What have we to fear , we who believe ? No such thing as a back flow of ideas exists any more than there exists a return of a river on its course . 
But let those who do not desire a future reflect on this matter . 
When they say no to progress , it is not the future but themselves that they are condemning . 
They are giving themselves a sad malady they are inoculating themselves with the past . 
There is but one way of rejecting To morrow , and that is to die . 
Now , no death , that of the body as late as possible , that of the soul never , this is what we desire . 
Yes , the enigma will utter its word , the sphinx will speak , the problem will be solved . 
Yes , the people , sketched out by the eighteenth century , will be finished by the nineteenth . 
He who doubts this is an idiot ! The future blossoming , the near blossoming forth of universal well being , is a divinely fatal phenomenon . 
A force composed of earth and heaven results from humanity and governs it this force is a worker of miracles marvellous issues are no more difficult to it than extraordinary vicissitudes . 
In the meantime , let there be no halt , no hesitation , no pause in the grandiose onward march of minds . 
Social philosophy consists essentially in science and peace . 
Its object is , and its result must be , to dissolve wrath by the study of antagonisms . 
It examines , it scrutinizes , it analyzes then it puts together once more , it proceeds by means of reduction , discarding all hatred . 
The civilizations of India , of Chaldea , of Persia , of Syria , of Egypt , have disappeared one after the other . 
Why ? We know not . 
What are the causes of these disasters ? We do not know . 
They sprung a leak , then they sank . 
But shadows are there , and light is here . 
We are not acquainted with the maladies of these ancient civilizations , we do not know the infirmities of our own . 
Everywhere upon it we have the right of light , we contemplate its beauties , we lay bare its defects . 
Where it is ill , we probe and the sickness once diagnosed , the study of the cause leads to the discovery of the remedy . 
Our civilization , the work of twenty centuries , is its law and its prodigy it is worth the trouble of saving . 
It is already much to have solaced it its enlightenment is yet another point . 
All the labors of modern social philosophies must converge towards this point . 
The thinker of to day has a great duty to auscultate civilization . 
We repeat , that this auscultation brings encouragement it is by this persistence in encouragement that we wish to conclude these pages , an austere interlude in a mournful drama . 
Beneath the social mortality , we feel human imperishableness . 
The globe does not perish , because it has these wounds , craters , eruptions , sulphur pits , here and there , nor because of a volcano which ejects its pus . 
The maladies of the people do not kill man . 
And yet , any one who follows the course of social clinics shakes his head at times . 
The strongest , the tenderest , the most logical have their hours of weakness . 
Will the future arrive ? It seems as though we might almost put this question , when we behold so much terrible darkness . 
Melancholy face to face encounter of selfish and wretched . 
Marius was slender and readily passed through . 
As there was never any one in the street , and as Marius never entered the garden except at night , he ran no risk of being seen . 
Beginning with that blessed and holy hour when a kiss betrothed these two souls , Marius was there every evening . 
One of woman's magnanimities is to yield . 
Love , at the height where it is absolute , is complicated with some indescribably celestial blindness of modesty . 
But what dangers you run , O noble souls ! Often you give the heart , and we take the body . 
Your heart remains with you , you gaze upon it in the gloom with a shudder . 
Love has no middle course it either ruins or it saves . 
All human destiny lies in this dilemma . 
This dilemma , ruin , or safety , is set forth no more inexorably by any fatality than by love . 
Love is life , if it is not death . 
The same sentiment says yes and no in the human heart . 
Of all the things that God has made , the human heart is the one which sheds the most light , alas ! and the most darkness . 
God willed that Cosette's love should encounter one of the loves which save . 
It seemed to Cosette that Marius had a crown , and to Marius that Cosette had a nimbus . 
They touched each other , they gazed at each other , they clasped each other's hands , they pressed close to each other but there was a distance which they did not pass . 
Not that they respected it they did not know of its existence . 
Marius was conscious of a barrier , Cosette's innocence and Cosette of a support , Marius' loyalty . 
The first kiss had also been the last . 
Marius , since that time , had not gone further than to touch Cosette's hand , or her kerchief , or a lock of her hair , with his lips . 
For him , Cosette was a perfume and not a woman . 
She refused nothing , and he asked nothing . 
Cosette was happy , and Marius was satisfied . 
They lived in this ecstatic state which can be described as the dazzling of one soul by another soul . 
It was the ineffable first embrace of two maiden souls in the ideal . 
Two swans meeting on the Jungfrau . 
Once , in the moonlight , Cosette stooped to pick up something on the ground , her bodice fell apart and permitted a glimpse of the beginning of her throat . 
Marius turned away his eyes . 
What took place between these two beings ? Nothing . 
At night , when they were there , that garden seemed a living and a sacred spot . 
All flowers unfolded around them and sent them incense and they opened their souls and scattered them over the flowers . 
The wanton and vigorous vegetation quivered , full of strength and intoxication , around these two innocents , and they uttered words of love which set the trees to trembling . 
What words were these ? Breaths . 
These breaths sufficed to trouble and to touch all nature round about . 
Dost thou know ? My name is Euphrasie . 
Euphrasie ? Why , no , thy name is Cosette . 
Oh ! Cosette is a very ugly name that was given to me when I was a little thing . 
But my real name is Euphrasie . 
Dost thou like that name Euphrasie ? Yes . 
But Cosette is not ugly . 
Do you like it better than Euphrasie ? Why , yes . 
Then I like it better too . 
Truly , it is pretty , Cosette . 
And the smile that she added made of this dialogue an idyl worthy of a grove situated in heaven . 
Or she bestowed on him a gentle tap because he coughed , and she said to him Don't cough , sir I will not have people cough on my domain without my permission . 
It's very naughty to cough and to disturb me . 
I want you to be well , because , in the first place , if you were not well , I should be very unhappy . 
What should I do then ? And this was simply divine . 
Once Marius said to Cosette Just imagine , I thought at one time that your name was Ursule . 
This made both of them laugh the whole evening . 
He would have been obliged to speak to Cosette of her garter , and that was impossible . 
This bordered on a strange theme , the flesh , before which that immense and innocent love recoiled with a sort of sacred fright . 
During this time , clouds passed above their heads . 
Every time that the wind blows it bears with it more of the dreams of men than of the clouds of heaven . 
This chaste , almost shy love was not devoid of gallantry , by any means . 
To pay compliments to the woman whom a man loves is the first method of bestowing caresses , and he is half audacious who tries it . 
A compliment is something like a kiss through a veil . 
Voluptuousness mingles there with its sweet tiny point , while it hides itself . 
The heart draws back before voluptuousness only to love the more . 
Marius' blandishments , all saturated with fancy , were , so to speak , of azure hue . 
The birds when they fly up yonder , in the direction of the angels , must hear such words . 
There were mingled with them , nevertheless , life , humanity , all the positiveness of which Marius was capable . 
Oh ! murmured Marius , how beautiful you are ! I dare not look at you . 
It is all over with me when I contemplate you . 
I know not what is the matter with me . 
The hem of your gown , when the tip of your shoe peeps from beneath , upsets me . 
And then , what an enchanted gleam when you open your thought even but a little ! You talk astonishingly good sense . 
It seems to me at times that you are a dream . 
Speak , I listen , I admire . 
Oh Cosette ! how strange it is and how charming ! I am really beside myself . 
You are adorable , Mademoiselle . 
I study your feet with the microscope and your soul with the telescope . 
And Cosette answered I have been loving a little more all the time that has passed since this morning . 
Questions and replies took care of themselves in this dialogue , which always turned with mutual consent upon love , as the little pith figures always turn on their peg . 
Cosette's whole person was ingenuousness , ingenuity , transparency , whiteness , candor , radiance . 
It might have been said of Cosette that she was clear . 
She produced on those who saw her the sensation of April and dawn . 
There was dew in her eyes . 
Cosette was a condensation of the auroral light in the form of a woman . 
It was quite simple that Marius should admire her , since he adored her . 
But the truth is , that this little school girl , fresh from the convent , talked with exquisite penetration and uttered , at times , all sorts of true and delicate sayings . 
She never made a mistake about anything , and she saw things justly . 
The woman feels and speaks with the tender instinct of the heart , which is infallible . 
No one understands so well as a woman , how to say things that are , at once , both sweet and deep . 
Sweetness and depth , they are the whole of woman in them lies the whole of heaven . 
In this full felicity , tears welled up to their eyes every instant . 
The most sovereign symptom of love is a tenderness that is , at times , almost unbearable . 
Still , though unknown to hearts intoxicated with purity , nature is always present and will not be forgotten . 
The permanent and the immutable are persistent . 
CHAPTER II THE BEWILDERMENT OF PERFECT HAPPINESS They existed vaguely , frightened at their happiness . 
They did not notice the cholera which decimated Paris precisely during that very month . 
They had confided in each other as far as possible , but this had not extended much further than their names . 
He had also hinted at being a baron , but this had produced no effect on Cosette . 
She did not know the meaning of the word . 
Then , as he was in heaven , it was quite natural that he should forget earth . 
Both bore languidly the indefinable burden of immaterial pleasures . 
Thus lived these somnambulists who are called lovers . 
Love is an ardent forgetfulness of all the rest . 
Then ask logic of passion if you will . 
There is no more absolute logical sequence in the human heart than there is a perfect geometrical figure in the celestial mechanism . 
For Cosette and Marius nothing existed except Marius and Cosette . 
The universe around them had fallen into a hole . 
They lived in a golden minute . 
There was nothing before them , nothing behind . 
It hardly occurred to Marius that Cosette had a father . 
His brain was dazzled and obliterated . 
They had told each other everything except everything . 
The everything of lovers is nothing . 
It is probable that this vanishing of hell in our rear is inherent to the arrival of paradise . 
Have we beheld demons ? Are there any ? Have we trembled ? Have we suffered ? We no longer know . 
A rosy cloud hangs over it . 
They slept wide awake , thus sweetly lulled . 
Oh ! splendid lethargy of the real overwhelmed by the ideal . 
Sometimes , beautiful as Cosette was , Marius shut his eyes in her presence . 
The best way to look at the soul is through closed eyes . 
Marius and Cosette never asked themselves whither this was to lead them . 
They considered that they had already arrived . 
It is a strange claim on man's part to wish that love should lead to something . 
CHAPTER III THE BEGINNING OF SHADOW Jean Valjean suspected nothing . 
Cosette , who was rather less dreamy than Marius , was gay , and that sufficed for Jean Valjean's happiness . 
The thoughts which Cosette cherished , her tender preoccupations , Marius' image which filled her heart , took away nothing from the incomparable purity of her beautiful , chaste , and smiling brow . 
She was at the age when the virgin bears her love as the angel his lily . 
So Jean Valjean was at ease . 
Thus , Cosette never objected to any of Jean Valjean's proposals . 
Did she want to take a walk ? Yes , dear little father . 
Did she want to stay at home ? Very good . 
Did he wish to pass the evening with Cosette ? She was delighted . 
Of course , no one ever met Marius in the daytime . 
Jean Valjean never even dreamed any longer that Marius was in existence . 
Old Toussaint , who retired early , thought of nothing but her sleep , and was as ignorant of the whole matter as Jean Valjean . 
Marius never set foot in the house . 
Hours wholly white almost all alike . 
This sort of love is a recollection of lily petals and the plumage of the dove . 
The whole extent of the garden lay between them and the street . 
Every time that Marius entered and left , he carefully adjusted the bar of the gate in such a manner that no displacement was visible . 
He usually went away about midnight , and returned to Courfeyrac's lodgings . 
Courfeyrac said to Bahorel Would you believe it ? Marius comes home nowadays at one o'clock in the morning . 
Bahorel replied What do you expect ? There's always a petard in a seminary fellow . 
At times , Courfeyrac folded his arms , assumed a serious air , and said to Marius You are getting irregular in your habits , young man . 
Come , be a good boy , what's her name ? But nothing could induce Marius to talk . 
They might have torn out his nails before one of the two sacred syllables of which that ineffable name , Cosette , was composed . 
True love is as luminous as the dawn and as silent as the tomb . 
Only , Courfeyrac saw this change in Marius , that his taciturnity was of the beaming order . 
During this sweet month of May , Marius and Cosette learned to know these immense delights . 
To dispute and to say you for thou , simply that they might say thou the better afterwards . 
In the meantime , divers complications were approaching . 
One evening , Marius was on his way to the rendezvous , by way of the Boulevard des Invalides . 
He habitually walked with drooping head . 
As he was on the point of turning the corner of the Rue Plumet , he heard some one quite close to him say Good evening , Monsieur Marius . 
He raised his head and recognized Eponine . 
This produced a singular effect upon him . 
He had no reasons for anything but gratitude towards her , he owed her his happiness , and yet , it was embarrassing to him to meet her . 
In this situation , man forgets to be bad , but he also forgets to be good . 
Gratitude , duty , matters essential and important to be remembered , vanish . 
At any other time , Marius would have behaved quite differently to Eponine . 
We show Marius as he was . 
His father himself was fading out of his soul to some extent , under the splendor of his love . 
He replied with some embarrassment Ah ! so it's you , Eponine ? Why do you call me you ? Have I done anything to you ? No , he answered . 
Certainly , he had nothing against her . 
Only , he felt that he could not do otherwise , now that he used thou to Cosette , than say you to Eponine . 
As he remained silent , she exclaimed Say Then she paused . 
It seemed as though words failed that creature formerly so heedless and so bold . 
She tried to smile and could not . 
Then she resumed Well ? Then she paused again , and remained with downcast eyes . 
Good evening , Mr. Marius , said she suddenly and abruptly and away she went . 
Two days in succession this was too much . 
He turned hastily aside , quitted the boulevard , changed his course and went to the Rue Plumet through the Rue Monsieur . 
This caused Eponine to follow him to the Rue Plumet , a thing which she had not yet done . 
Up to that time , she had contented herself with watching him on his passage along the boulevard without ever seeking to encounter him . 
It was only on the evening before that she had attempted to address him . 
So Eponine followed him , without his suspecting the fact . 
She saw him displace the bar and slip into the garden . 
She approached the railing , felt of the bars one after the other , and readily recognized the one which Marius had moved . 
It was precisely at the point where the railing touched the neighboring wall . 
There was a dim nook there , in which Eponine was entirely concealed . 
She remained thus for more than an hour , without stirring and without breathing , a prey to her thoughts . 
The passer by cast a glance around him , saw no one , dared not peer into the black niche , and was greatly alarmed . 
The first to arrive at the garden railing halted , and waited for the others a second later , all six were reunited . 
These men began to talk in a low voice . 
This is the place , said one of them . 
Is there a cab dog in the garden ? asked another . 
In any case , I have fetched a ball that we'll make him eat . 
Have you some putty to break the pane with ? Yes . 
The railing is old , interpolated a fifth , who had the voice of a ventriloquist . 
So much the better , said the second who had spoken . 
It won't screech under the saw , and it won't be hard to cut . 
Thus he came to the bar which Marius had loosened . 
At the same moment , he perceived a pale girl standing before him . 
The man underwent that shock which the unexpected always brings . 
He bristled up in hideous wise nothing is so formidable to behold as ferocious beasts who are uneasy their terrified air evokes terror . 
He recoiled and stammered What jade is this ? Your daughter . 
It was , in fact , Eponine , who had addressed Thenardier . 
Some indescribable but hideous tools were visible in their hands . 
Guelemer held one of those pairs of curved pincers which prowlers call fanchons . 
I am here , little father , because I am here . 
Isn't a person allowed to sit on the stones nowadays ? It's you who ought not to be here . 
What have you come here for , since it's a biscuit ? I told Magnon so . 
There's nothing to be done here . 
Now , get away with you . 
But Eponine did not release her hold , and redoubled her caresses . 
But how did you manage it , little pa ? You must have been very clever to get out of that . 
Tell me about it ! And my mother ? Where is mother ? Tell me about mamma . 
I don't know , let me alone , and be off , I tell you . 
And she caught her father round the neck again . 
Come , now , this is stupid ! said Babet . 
Make haste ! said Guelemer , the cops may pass . 
The ventriloquist's voice repeated his distich Nous n' sommes pas le jour de l'an , This isn't New Year's day A becoter papa , maman . 
To peck at pa and ma . 
Eponine turned to the five ruffians . 
Why , it's Monsieur Brujon . 
Good day , Monsieur Babet . 
Good day , Monsieur Claquesous . 
Don't you know me , Monsieur Guelemer ? How goes it , Montparnasse ? Yes , they know you ! ejaculated Thenardier . 
But good day , good evening , sheer off ! leave us alone ! It's the hour for foxes , not for chickens , said Montparnasse . 
You see the job we have on hand here , added Babet . 
Take care , said he , you'll cut yourself , I've a knife open . 
My little Montparnasse , responded Eponine very gently , you must have confidence in people . 
I am the daughter of my father , perhaps . 
Monsieur Babet , Monsieur Guelemer , I'm the person who was charged to investigate this matter . 
It is remarkable that Eponine did not talk slang . 
That frightful tongue had become impossible to her since she had known Marius . 
She pressed in her hand , small , bony , and feeble as that of a skeleton , Guelemer's huge , coarse fingers , and continued You know well that I'm no fool . 
Ordinarily , I am believed . 
I have rendered you service on various occasions . 
Well , I have made inquiries you will expose yourselves to no purpose , you see . 
I swear to you that there is nothing in this house . 
There are lone women , said Guelemer . 
No , the persons have moved away . 
The candles haven't , anyway ! ejaculated Babet . 
And he pointed out to Eponine , across the tops of the trees , a light which was wandering about in the mansard roof of the pavilion . 
It was Toussaint , who had stayed up to spread out some linen to dry . 
Eponine made a final effort . 
Well , said she , they're very poor folks , and it's a hovel where there isn't a sou . 
Go to the devil ! cried Thenardier . 
And he pushed her aside with the intention of entering . 
My good friend , Mr. Montparnasse , said Eponine , I entreat you , you are a good fellow , don't enter . 
Take care , you'll cut yourself , replied Montparnasse . 
The ventriloquist , however , finished his grin . 
She went on Friends ! Listen well . 
This is not what you want . 
She'd do it , too , said Thenardier in a low tone to Brujon and the ventriloquist . 
She shook her head and added Beginning with my father ! Thenardier stepped nearer . 
Not so close , my good man ! said she . 
I'm not the daughter of a dog , since I'm the daughter of a wolf . 
There are six of you , what matters that to me ? You are men . 
Well , I'm a woman . 
I tell you that you shan't enter this house , because it doesn't suit me . 
If you approach , I'll bark . 
I told you , I'm the dog , and I don't care a straw for you . 
Go your way , you bore me ! Go where you please , but don't come here , I forbid it ! You can use your knives . 
I shall be hungry this summer , and I shall be cold this winter . 
She resumed I have only to cry out , and people will come , and then slap , bang ! There are six of you I represent the whole world . 
Thenardier made a movement towards her . 
Don't approach ! she cried . 
He halted , and said gently Well , no I won't approach , but don't speak so loud . 
So you intend to hinder us in our work , my daughter ? But we must earn our living all the same . 
Have you no longer any kind feeling for your father ? You bother me , said Eponine . 
She had set her elbow on her knee and her chin in her hand , and she swung her foot with an air of indifference . 
Her tattered gown permitted a view of her thin shoulder blades . 
The neighboring street lantern illuminated her profile and her attitude . 
Nothing more resolute and more surprising could be seen . 
The six rascals , speechless and gloomy at being held in check by a girl , retreated beneath the shadow cast by the lantern , and held counsel with furious and humiliated shrugs . 
In the meantime she stared at them with a stern but peaceful air . 
There's something the matter with her , said Babet . 
Is she in love with the dog ? It's a shame to miss this , anyway . 
Two women , an old fellow who lodges in the back yard , and curtains that ain't so bad at the windows . 
The old cove must be a Jew . 
I think the job's a good one . 
Well , go in , then , the rest of you , exclaimed Montparnasse . 
I'll stay here with the girl , and if she fails us He flashed the knife , which he held open in his hand , in the light of the lantern . 
Thenardier said not a word , and seemed ready for whatever the rest pleased . 
Brujon , who was somewhat of an oracle , and who had , as the reader knows , put up the job , had not as yet spoken . 
He had the reputation of not sticking at anything , and it was known that he had plundered a police post simply out of bravado . 
Besides this he made verses and songs , which gave him great authority . 
As they went , Montparnasse muttered Never mind ! if they had wanted , I'd have cut her throat . 
I don't hit a lady . 
At the corner of the street they halted and exchanged the following enigmatical dialogue in a low tone Where shall we go to sleep to night ? Under Pantin Paris . 
Have you the key to the gate , Thenardier ? Pardi . 
Eponine , who never took her eyes off of them , saw them retreat by the road by which they had come . 
She rose and began to creep after them along the walls and the houses . 
She followed them thus as far as the boulevard . 
There they parted , and she saw these six men plunge into the gloom , where they appeared to melt away . 
CHAPTER V THINGS OF THE NIGHT After the departure of the ruffians , the Rue Plumet resumed its tranquil , nocturnal aspect . 
That which had just taken place in this street would not have astonished a forest . 
Nature , bristling and wild , takes alarm at certain approaches in which she fancies that she feels the supernatural . 
The forces of the gloom know each other , and are strangely balanced by each other . 
Teeth and claws fear what they cannot grasp . 
These brutalities , which are only matter , entertain a confused fear of having to deal with the immense obscurity condensed into an unknown being . 
A black figure barring the way stops the wild beast short . 
That which emerges from the cemetery intimidates and disconcerts that which emerges from the cave the ferocious fear the sinister wolves recoil when they encounter a ghoul . 
But he had found Cosette sad Cosette had been weeping . 
This was the first cloud in that wonderful dream . 
Marius' first word had been What is the matter ? And she had replied This . 
Marius shivered from head to foot . 
When one is at the end of one's life , to die means to go away when one is at the beginning of it , to go away means to die . 
For the last six weeks , Marius had little by little , slowly , by degrees , taken possession of Cosette each day . 
So Marius possessed Cosette , as spirits possess , but he enveloped her with all his soul , and seized her jealously with incredible conviction . 
Therefore , he possessed all Cosette's dreams . 
Beside Cosette he felt himself beside his own property , his own thing , his own despot and his slave . 
It seemed as though they had so intermingled their souls , that it would have been impossible to tell them apart had they wished to take them back again . 
No , it is mine . 
I assure you that you are mistaken . 
What you are taking as your own is myself . 
Marius was something that made a part of Cosette , and Cosette was something which made a part of Marius . 
Marius felt Cosette within him . 
To have Cosette , to possess Cosette , this , to him , was not to be distinguished from breathing . 
For six weeks Marius had been living , as we have said , outside of life those words , going away ! caused him to re enter it harshly . 
He found not a word to say . 
Cosette merely felt that his hand was very cold . 
She said to him in her turn What is the matter ? He replied in so low a tone that Cosette hardly heard him I did not understand what you said . 
But this is outrageous ! exclaimed Marius . 
, could have equalled this in atrocity , in the opinion of Marius M. Fauchelevent taking his daughter off to England because he had business there . 
He demanded in a weak voice And when do you start ? He did not say when . 
And when shall you return ? He did not say when . 
So , you will go ? If my father goes . 
So , you will go ? Cosette took Marius' hand , and pressed it without replying . 
Very well , said Marius , then I will go elsewhere . 
Cosette felt rather than understood the meaning of these words . 
She turned so pale that her face shone white through the gloom . 
She stammered What do you mean ? Marius looked at her , then raised his eyes to heaven , and answered Nothing . 
When his eyes fell again , he saw Cosette smiling at him . 
The smile of a woman whom one loves possesses a visible radiance , even at night . 
How silly we are ! Marius , I have an idea . 
What is it ? If we go away , do you go too ! I will tell you where ! Come and join me wherever I am . 
Marius was now a thoroughly roused man . 
He had fallen back into reality . 
He remained a long time thus . 
One could remain for eternity in such abysses . 
At last he turned round . 
He heard behind him a faint stifled noise , which was sweet yet sad . 
She had been weeping for more than two hours beside Marius as he meditated . 
He came to her , fell at her knees , and slowly prostrating himself , he took the tip of her foot which peeped out from beneath her robe , and kissed it . 
She let him have his way in silence . 
There are moments when a woman accepts , like a sombre and resigned goddess , the religion of love . 
Do not weep , he said . 
Tell me , will you do this for me , and cease to weep ? Do you love me ? said she . 
Cosette , I have never given my word of honor to any one , because my word of honor terrifies me . 
I feel that my father is by my side . 
Well , I give you my most sacred word of honor , that if you go away I shall die . 
In the tone with which he uttered these words there lay a melancholy so solemn and so tranquil , that Cosette trembled . 
She felt that chill which is produced by a true and gloomy thing as it passes by . 
The shock made her cease weeping . 
Now , listen , said he , do not expect me to morrow . 
Why ? Do not expect me until the day after to morrow . 
Oh ! Why ? You will see . 
A day without seeing you ! But that is impossible ! Let us sacrifice one day in order to gain our whole lives , perhaps . 
And Marius added in a low tone and in an aside He is a man who never changes his habits , and he has never received any one except in the evening . 
Of what man are you speaking ? asked Cosette . 
I ? I said nothing . 
What do you hope , then ? Wait until the day after to morrow . 
You wish it ? Yes , Cosette . 
She took his head in both her hands , raising herself on tiptoe in order to be on a level with him , and tried to read his hope in his eyes . 
He searched in his pocket , pulled out his penknife , and with the blade he wrote on the plaster of the wall Rue de la Verrerie . 
In the meantime , Cosette had begun to gaze into his eyes once more . 
Tell me your thought , Marius you have some idea . 
Oh ! tell me , so that I may pass a pleasant night . 
This is my idea that it is impossible that God should mean to part us . 
Wait expect me the day after to morrow . 
What shall I do until then ? said Cosette . 
I am going to try something . 
Then I will pray to God and I will think of you here , so that you may be successful . 
I will question you no further , since you do not wish it . 
I shall pass the evening to morrow in singing that music from Euryanthe that you love , and that you came one evening to listen to , outside my shutters . 
But day after to morrow you will come early . 
I shall expect you at dusk , at nine o'clock precisely , I warn you . 
Mon Dieu ! how sad it is that the days are so long ! On the stroke of nine , do you understand , I shall be in the garden . 
When Marius went forth , the street was deserted . 
This was the moment when Eponine was following the ruffians to the boulevard . 
While Marius had been dreaming with his head pressed to the tree , an idea had crossed his mind an idea , alas ! that he himself judged to be senseless and impossible . 
He had come to a desperate decision . 
CHAPTER VII THE OLD HEART AND THE YOUNG HEART IN THE PRESENCE OF EACH OTHER At that epoch , Father Gillenormand was well past his ninety first birthday . 
He still lived with Mademoiselle Gillenormand in the Rue des Filles du Calvaire , No. , in the old house which he owned . 
Still , his daughter had been saying for some time My father is sinking . 
He no longer boxed the maids' ears he no longer thumped the landing place so vigorously with his cane when Basque was slow in opening the door . 
The Revolution of July had exasperated him for the space of barely six months . 
He had viewed , almost tranquilly , that coupling of words , in the Moniteur M. Humblot Conte , peer of France . 
The fact is , that the old man was deeply dejected . 
He did not bend , he did not yield this was no more a characteristic of his physical than of his moral nature , but he felt himself giving way internally . 
The idea of never seeing Marius again had never entered his brain until that day now the thought began to recur to him , and it chilled him . 
Absence , as is always the case in genuine and natural sentiments , had only served to augment the grandfather's love for the ungrateful child , who had gone off like a flash . 
It is during December nights , when the cold stands at ten degrees , that one thinks oftenest of the son . 
He began to lose his teeth , which added to his sadness . 
M. Gillenormand , without however acknowledging it to himself , for it would have rendered him furious and ashamed , had never loved a mistress as he loved Marius . 
He gazed incessantly at that portrait . 
One day , he happened to say , as he gazed upon it I think the likeness is strong . 
To my sister ? inquired Mademoiselle Gillenormand . 
The old man added And to him also . 
With whom ? he demanded . 
Aunt Gillenormand renounced every effort , and pronounced this acute diagnosis My father never cared very much for my sister after her folly . 
It is clear that he detests Marius . 
After her folly meant after she had married the colonel . 
However , as the reader has been able to conjecture , Mademoiselle Gillenormand had failed in her attempt to substitute her favorite , the officer of lancers , for Marius . 
The substitute , Theodule , had not been a success . 
M. Gillenormand had not accepted the quid pro quo . 
A vacancy in the heart does not accommodate itself to a stop gap . 
Theodule , on his side , though he scented the inheritance , was disgusted at the task of pleasing . 
The goodman bored the lancer and the lancer shocked the goodman . 
All his good qualities had a defect . 
M. Gillenormand was worn out with hearing him tell about the love affairs that he had in the vicinity of the barracks in the Rue de Babylone . 
And then , Lieutenant Gillenormand sometimes came in his uniform , with the tricolored cockade . 
This rendered him downright intolerable . 
Finally , Father Gillenormand had said to his daughter I've had enough of that Theodule . 
I haven't much taste for warriors in time of peace . 
Receive him if you choose . 
I don't know but I prefer slashers to fellows that drag their swords . 
The clash of blades in battle is less dismal , after all , than the clank of the scabbard on the pavement . 
And then , throwing out your chest like a bully and lacing yourself like a girl , with stays under your cuirass , is doubly ridiculous . 
When one is a veritable man , one holds equally aloof from swagger and from affected airs . 
He is neither a blusterer nor a finnicky hearted man . 
Keep your Theodule for yourself . 
In fact , as he had good sense , and as he had compared the two , Theodule had only served to make him regret Marius all the more . 
He was dressed , according to his wont , like an incroyable , and resembled an antique portrait by Garat . 
At home , he never wore a dressing gown , except when he rose and retired . 
It gives one a look of age , said he . 
Father Gillenormand was thinking of Marius lovingly and bitterly and , as usual , bitterness predominated . 
His tenderness once soured always ended by boiling and turning to indignation . 
He had reached the point where a man tries to make up his mind and to accept that which rends his heart . 
He was trying to accustom himself to the thought that all was over , and that he should die without having beheld that gentleman again . 
But his whole nature revolted his aged paternity would not consent to this . 
All his blood had retreated to his heart . 
He stammered M. Marius what ? I don't know , replied Basque , intimidated and put out of countenance by his master's air I have not seen him . 
Nicolette came in and said to me There's a young man here say that it is M. Marius . 
Father Gillenormand stammered in a low voice Show him in . 
And he remained in the same attitude , with shaking head , and his eyes fixed on the door . 
Marius halted at the door , as though waiting to be bidden to enter . 
His almost squalid attire was not perceptible in the obscurity caused by the shade . 
Nothing could be seen but his calm , grave , but strangely sad face . 
It was several minutes before Father Gillenormand , dulled with amazement and joy , could see anything except a brightness as when one is in the presence of an apparition . 
He was on the point of swooning he saw Marius through a dazzling light . 
It certainly was he , it certainly was Marius . 
At last ! After the lapse of four years ! He grasped him entire , so to speak , in a single glance . 
He found him noble , handsome , distinguished , well grown , a complete man , with a suitable mien and a charming air . 
He said abruptly What have you come here for ? Marius replied with embarrassment Monsieur M. Gillenormand would have liked to have Marius throw himself into his arms . 
He was displeased with Marius and with himself . 
He was conscious that he was brusque , and that Marius was cold . 
It caused the goodman unendurable and irritating anxiety to feel so tender and forlorn within , and only to be able to be hard outside . 
He interrupted Marius in a peevish tone Then why did you come ? That then signified If you do not come to embrace me . 
Marius looked at his grandfather , whose pallor gave him a face of marble . 
Monsieur Have you come to beg my pardon ? Do you acknowledge your faults ? He thought he was putting Marius on the right road , and that the child would yield . 
Marius shivered it was the denial of his father that was required of him he dropped his eyes and replied No , sir . 
These words touched M. Gillenormand uttered a little sooner , they would have rendered him tender , but they came too late . 
The grandfather rose he supported himself with both hands on his cane his lips were white , his brow wavered , but his lofty form towered above Marius as he bowed . 
If that is the way you jest at the courthouse , Messieurs the lawyers , I sincerely compliment you . 
You are a fool ! said the old man . 
He would have liked to have Marius understand , and Marius did not understand , which made the goodman furious . 
M. Gillenormand folded his arms a gesture which with him was peculiarly imperious , and apostrophized Marius bitterly Let us make an end of this . 
M. Gillenormand rang the bell . 
Basque opened the door half way . 
He turned to his daughter and said to her Nothing . 
Say good day to him . 
The curt , hoarse sound of the old man's voice announced a strange degree of excitement . 
In the meantime , Father Gillenormand had returned and placed his back against the chimney piece once more . 
You marry ! At one and twenty ! You have arranged that ! You have only a permission to ask ! a formality . 
Well , you have had a revolution since I had the honor to see you last . 
The Jacobins got the upper hand . 
You must have been delighted . 
Are you not a Republican since you are a Baron ? You can make that agree . 
The Republic makes a good sauce for the barony . 
Go take a look at that . 
It produces a good effect . 
Ah ! those friends of yours do pretty things . 
Nothing ? Then all that you have to live upon is the twelve hundred livres that I allow you ? Marius did not reply . 
M. Gillenormand continued Then I understand the girl is rich ? As rich as I am . 
What ! No dowry ? No. Expectations ? I think not . 
Utterly naked ! What's the father ? I don't know . 
And what's her name ? Mademoiselle Fauchelevent . 
Pttt ! ejaculated the old gentleman . 
He traversed the chamber with slow steps , with bowed head , tottering and more like a dying man than like one merely taking his departure . 
Marius stared at him in bewilderment . 
M. Gillenormand's mobile face was no longer expressive of anything but rough and ineffable good nature . 
The grandsire had given way before the grandfather . 
Come , see here , speak , tell me about your love affairs , jabber , tell me everything ! Sapristi ! how stupid young folks are ! Father repeated Marius . 
The old man's entire countenance lighted up with indescribable radiance . 
He was seated near the table , the light from the candles brought out the dilapidation of his costume , which Father Gillenormand regarded with amazement . 
Well , father said Marius . 
Ah , by the way , interrupted M. Gillenormand , you really have not a penny then ? You are dressed like a pickpocket . 
He rummaged in a drawer , drew forth a purse , which he laid on the table Here are a hundred louis , buy yourself a hat . 
Father , pursued Marius , my good father , if you only knew ! I love her . 
I should go mad first , I should die , I should fall ill , I should throw myself into the water . 
I absolutely must marry her , since I should go mad otherwise . 
This is the whole truth , and I do not think that I have omitted anything . 
She lives in a garden with an iron fence , in the Rue Plumet . 
It is in the neighborhood of the Invalides . 
Father Gillenormand had seated himself , with a beaming countenance , beside Marius . 
As he listened to him and drank in the sound of his voice , he enjoyed at the same time a protracted pinch of snuff . 
At the words Rue Plumet he interrupted his inhalation and allowed the remainder of his snuff to fall upon his knees . 
The Rue Plumet , the Rue Plumet , did you say ? Let us see ! Are there not barracks in that vicinity ? Why , yes , that's it . 
Your cousin Theodule has spoken to me about it . 
The lancer , the officer . 
A gay girl , my good friend , a gay girl ! Pardieu , yes , the Rue Plumet . 
It is what used to be called the Rue Blomet . 
It all comes back to me now . 
I have heard of that little girl of the iron railing in the Rue Plumet . 
In a garden , a Pamela . 
Your taste is not bad . 
She is said to be a very tidy creature . 
Between ourselves , I think that simpleton of a lancer has been courting her a bit . 
I don't know where he did it . 
However , that's not to the purpose . 
Besides , he is not to be believed . 
He brags , Marius ! I think it quite proper that a young man like you should be in love . 
It's the right thing at your age . 
I like you better as a lover than as a Jacobin . 
I like you better in love with a petticoat , sapristi ! with twenty petticoats , than with M. de Robespierre . 
For my part , I will do myself the justice to say , that in the line of sans culottes , I have never loved any one but women . 
Pretty girls are pretty girls , the deuce ! There's no objection to that . 
As for the little one , she receives you without her father's knowledge . 
That's in the established order of things . 
I have had adventures of that same sort myself . 
One simply behaves like a fellow of spirit . 
Slip along , mortals don't marry . 
And the grandfather says That's a simple matter . 
Youth must amuse itself , and old age must wear out . 
I have been young , you will be old . 
Come , my boy , you shall pass it on to your grandson . 
Here are two hundred pistoles . 
Amuse yourself , deuce take it ! Nothing better ! That's the way the affair should be treated . 
You don't marry , but that does no harm . 
You understand me ? Marius , petrified and incapable of uttering a syllable , made a sign with his head that he did not . 
He had understood nothing of what his grandfather had just said . 
This twaddle about the Rue Blomet , Pamela , the barracks , the lancer , had passed before Marius like a dissolving view . 
Nothing of all that could bear any reference to Cosette , who was a lily . 
The good man was wandering in his mind . 
But this wandering terminated in words which Marius did understand , and which were a mortal insult to Cosette . 
Those words , make her your mistress , entered the heart of the strict young man like a sword . 
He rose , picked up his hat which lay on the floor , and walked to the door with a firm , assured step . 
There he turned round , bowed deeply to his grandfather , raised his head erect again , and said Five years ago you insulted my father to day you have insulted my wife . 
I ask nothing more of you , sir . 
The old man remained for several minutes motionless and as though struck by lightning , without the power to speak or breathe , as though a clenched fist grasped his throat . 
He had on his workman's waistcoat , and trousers of gray linen and his long visored cap concealed his countenance . 
This had been sufficient to make him come to a decision . 
Jean Valjean had made up his mind to quit Paris , and even France , and go over to England . 
He wished to set out before the end of the week . 
He was troubled from all these points of view . 
Last of all , an inexplicable circumstance which had just attracted his attention , and from which he had not yet recovered , had added to his state of alarm . 
This was perfectly fresh , the grooves in the ancient black mortar were white , a tuft of nettles at the foot of the wall was powdered with the fine , fresh plaster . 
This had probably been written on the preceding night . 
He recalled the odd incidents which had already alarmed the household . 
His mind was now filling in this canvas . 
He took good care not to speak to Cosette of the line written on the wall , for fear of alarming her . 
In the midst of his preoccupations , he perceived , from a shadow cast by the sun , that some one had halted on the crest of the slope immediately behind him . 
He was on the point of turning round , when a paper folded in four fell upon his knees as though a hand had dropped it over his head . 
He took the paper , unfolded it , and read these words written in large characters , with a pencil MOVE AWAY FROM YOUR HOUSE . 
Jean Valjean returned home at once , in a very thoughtful mood . 
CHAPTER II MARIUS Marius had left M. Gillenormand in despair . 
He had entered the house with very little hope , and quitted it with immense despair . 
The dramatic poet might , apparently , expect some complications from this revelation made point blank by the grandfather to the grandson . 
But what the drama would gain thereby , truth would lose . 
Marius was at an age when one believes nothing in the line of evil later on comes the age when one believes everything . 
Suspicions are nothing else than wrinkles . 
Early youth has none of them . 
That which overwhelmed Othello glides innocuous over Candide . 
Suspect Cosette ! There are hosts of crimes which Marius could sooner have committed . 
He began to wander about the streets , the resource of those who suffer . 
He thought of nothing , so far as he could afterwards remember . 
At two o'clock in the morning he returned to Courfeyrac's quarters and flung himself , without undressing , on his mattress . 
The sun was shining brightly when he sank into that frightful leaden slumber which permits ideas to go and come in the brain . 
When he awoke , he saw Courfeyrac , Enjolras , Feuilly , and Combeferre standing in the room with their hats on and all ready to go out . 
Courfeyrac said to him Are you coming to General Lamarque's funeral ? It seemed to him that Courfeyrac was speaking Chinese . 
He went out some time after them . 
He put in his pocket the pistols which Javert had given him at the time of the adventure on the d of February , and which had remained in his hands . 
These pistols were still loaded . 
It would be difficult to say what vague thought he had in his mind when he took them with him . 
It appears that he took a bath in the Seine without being aware of it . 
There are moments when a man has a furnace within his skull . 
Marius was passing through one of those moments . 
He no longer hoped for anything this step he had taken since the preceding evening . 
He waited for night with feverish impatience , he had but one idea clearly before his mind this was , that at nine o'clock he should see Cosette . 
This last happiness now constituted his whole future after that , gloom . 
At intervals , as he roamed through the most deserted boulevards , it seemed to him that he heard strange noises in Paris . 
When he approached the grating he forgot everything . 
Those minutes in which one lives centuries always have this sovereign and wonderful property , that at the moment when they are passing they fill the heart completely . 
Marius displaced the bar , and rushed headlong into the garden . 
Cosette was not at the spot where she ordinarily waited for him . 
He traversed the thicket , and approached the recess near the flight of steps She is waiting for me there , said he . 
He raised his eyes , and saw that the shutters of the house were closed . 
He made the tour of the garden , the garden was deserted . 
When he had rapped , he lifted up his voice and called Cosette . 
Cosette ! he cried Cosette ! he repeated imperiously . 
No one in the garden no one in the house . 
Marius fixed his despairing eyes on that dismal house , which was as black and as silent as a tomb and far more empty . 
He gazed at the stone seat on which he had passed so many adorable hours with Cosette . 
All at once he heard a voice which seemed to proceed from the street , and which was calling to him through the trees Mr. Marius ! He started to his feet . 
Mr. Marius , are you there ? Yes . 
Mr. Marius , went on the voice , your friends are waiting for you at the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie . 
This voice was not wholly unfamiliar to him . 
It resembled the hoarse , rough voice of Eponine . 
CHAPTER III M. MABEUF Jean Valjean's purse was of no use to M. Mabeuf . 
M. Mabeuf , in his venerable , infantile austerity , had not accepted the gift of the stars he had not admitted that a star could coin itself into louis d'or . 
He had not divined that what had fallen from heaven had come from Gavroche . 
He had taken the purse to the police commissioner of the quarter , as a lost article placed by the finder at the disposal of claimants . 
The purse was actually lost . 
It is unnecessary to say that no one claimed it , and that it did not succor M. Mabeuf . 
Moreover , M. Mabeuf had continued his downward course . 
His experiments on indigo had been no more successful in the Jardin des Plantes than in his garden at Austerlitz . 
The year before he had owed his housekeeper's wages now , as we have seen , he owed three quarters of his rent . 
The pawnshop had sold the plates of his Flora after the expiration of thirteen months . 
Some coppersmith had made stewpans of them . 
Nothing now remained to him of his life's work . 
He set to work to eat up the money for these copies . 
When he saw that this wretched resource was becoming exhausted , he gave up his garden and allowed it to run to waste . 
Before this , a long time before , he had given up his two eggs and the morsel of beef which he ate from time to time . 
He dined on bread and potatoes . 
M. Mabeuf never had any fire in his chamber , and went to bed at sundown , in order not to consume any candles . 
It seemed as though he had no longer any neighbors people avoided him when he went out he perceived the fact . 
The wretchedness of a child interests a mother , the wretchedness of a young man interests a young girl , the wretchedness of an old man interests no one . 
It is , of all distresses , the coldest . 
Still , Father Mabeuf had not entirely lost his childlike serenity . 
His eyes acquired some vivacity when they rested on his books , and he smiled when he gazed at the Diogenes Laertius , which was a unique copy . 
His bookcase with glass doors was the only piece of furniture which he had kept beyond what was strictly indispensable . 
One day , Mother Plutarque said to him I have no money to buy any dinner . 
What she called dinner was a loaf of bread and four or five potatoes . 
On credit ? suggested M. Mabeuf . 
You know well that people refuse me . 
He returned two hours later , without anything under his arm , laid thirty sous on the table , and said You will get something for dinner . 
From that moment forth , Mother Plutarque saw a sombre veil , which was never more lifted , descend over the old man's candid face . 
On the following day , on the day after , and on the day after that , it had to be done again . 
M. Mabeuf went out with a book and returned with a coin . 
Volume by volume , the whole library went the same road . 
He said at times But I am eighty as though he cherished some secret hope that he should arrive at the end of his days before reaching the end of his books . 
Once , however , he had a pleasure . 
I owe five sous , he said , beaming on Mother Plutarque . 
That day he had no dinner . 
He belonged to the Horticultural Society . 
His destitution became known there . 
The president of the society came to see him , promised to speak to the Minister of Agriculture and Commerce about him , and did so . 
Trembling with joy , he showed the letter to Mother Plutarque . 
We are saved ! said he . 
On the day appointed , he went to the Minister's house . 
He perceived that his ragged cravat , his long , square coat , and his waxed shoes astonished the ushers . 
No one spoke to him , not even the Minister . 
He had sold an Elzevir to pay for a carriage in which to go thither . 
He had acquired the habit of reading a few pages in his Diogenes Laertius every night , before he went to bed . 
He knew enough Greek to enjoy the peculiarities of the text which he owned . 
He had now no other enjoyment . 
All at once , Mother Plutarque fell ill . 
There is one thing sadder than having no money with which to buy bread at the baker's and that is having no money to purchase drugs at the apothecary's . 
One evening , the doctor had ordered a very expensive potion . 
And the malady was growing worse a nurse was required . 
M. Mabeuf opened his bookcase there was nothing there . 
The last volume had taken its departure . 
All that was left to him was Diogenes Laertius . 
He put this unique copy under his arm , and went out . 
It was the th of June , he went to the Porte Saint Jacques , to Royal's successor , and returned with one hundred francs . 
He laid the pile of five franc pieces on the old serving woman's nightstand , and returned to his chamber without saying a word . 
It rained at intervals the old man did not seem to perceive the fact . 
In the afternoon , extraordinary noises broke out in Paris . 
They resembled shots and the clamors of a multitude . 
Father Mabeuf raised his head . 
He saw a gardener passing , and inquired What is it ? The gardener , spade on back , replied in the most unconcerned tone It is the riots . 
What riots ? Yes , they are fighting . 
Why are they fighting ? Ah , good Heavens ! ejaculated the gardener . 
In what direction ? went on M. Mabeuf . 
In the neighborhood of the Arsenal . 
THE TH OF JUNE , CHAPTER I THE SURFACE OF THE QUESTION Of what is revolt composed ? Of nothing and of everything . 
Of an electricity disengaged , little by little , of a flame suddenly darting forth , of a wandering force , of a passing breath . 
This breath encounters heads which speak , brains which dream , souls which suffer , passions which burn , wretchedness which howls , and bears them away . 
Athwart the state , the laws , athwart prosperity and the insolence of others . 
Woe to him whom it bears away as well as to him whom it strikes ! It breaks the one against the other . 
It communicates to those whom it seizes an indescribable and extraordinary power . 
It fills the first comer with the force of events it converts everything into projectiles . 
It makes a cannon ball of a rough stone , and a general of a porter . 
If we are to believe certain oracles of crafty political views , a little revolt is desirable from the point of view of power . 
System revolt strengthens those governments which it does not overthrow . 
It puts the army to the test it consecrates the bourgeoisie , it draws out the muscles of the police it demonstrates the force of the social framework . 
It is an exercise in gymnastics it is almost hygiene . 
Power is in better health after a revolt , as a man is after a good rubbing down . 
Revolt , thirty years ago , was regarded from still other points of view . 
A whole political school called the golden mean has been the outcome of this . 
As between cold water and hot water , it is the lukewarm water party . 
If we listen to this school , The riots which complicated the affair of deprived that great event of a portion of its purity . 
The Revolution of July had been a fine popular gale , abruptly followed by blue sky . 
They made the cloudy sky reappear . 
They caused that revolution , at first so remarkable for its unanimity , to degenerate into a quarrel . 
In the Revolution of July , as in all progress accomplished by fits and starts , there had been secret fractures these riots rendered them perceptible . 
It might have been said Ah ! this is broken . 
After the Revolution of July , one was sensible only of deliverance after the riots , one was conscious of a catastrophe . 
Schools and legions clashed together . 
The army , always a sad thing in civil wars , opposed prudence to audacity . 
Uprisings , while proving popular intrepidity , also educated the courage of the bourgeois . 
Add , for all must needs be told , the massacres which have too often dishonored the victory of order grown ferocious over liberty gone mad . 
To sum up all , uprisings have been disastrous . 
Thus speaks that approximation to wisdom with which the bourgeoisie , that approximation to the people , so willingly contents itself . 
For our parts , we reject this word uprisings as too large , and consequently as too convenient . 
We make a distinction between one popular movement and another popular movement . 
We do not inquire whether an uprising costs as much as a battle . 
Why a battle , in the first place ? Here the question of war comes up . 
Even at the same price , we should prefer the th of July . 
However , we reject these figures , which appear to be reasons and which are only words . 
An uprising being given , we examine it by itself . 
In all that is said by the doctrinarian objection above presented , there is no question of anything but effect , we seek the cause . 
The same cannon , pointed against the populace , is wrong on the th of August , and right on the th of Vendemiaire . 
Alike in appearance , fundamentally different in reality the Swiss defend the false , Bonaparte defends the true . 
That which universal suffrage has effected in its liberty and in its sovereignty cannot be undone by the street . 
It is the same in things pertaining purely to civilization the instinct of the masses , clear sighted to day , may be troubled to morrow . 
The same fury legitimate when directed against Terray and absurd when directed against Turgot . 
Israel against Moses , Athens against Phocian , Rome against Cicero , that is an uprising Paris against the Bastille , that is insurrection . 
These gifts of a world to civilization are such augmentations of light , that all resistance in that case is culpable . 
Sometimes the populace counterfeits fidelity to itself . 
The masses are traitors to the people . 
La Vendee is a grand , catholic uprising . 
The brawl of passions and ignorances is quite another thing from the shock of progress . 
Show me in what direction you are going . 
Rise , if you will , but let it be that you may grow great . 
There is no insurrection except in a forward direction . 
Any other sort of rising is bad every violent step towards the rear is a revolt to retreat is to commit a deed of violence against the human race . 
Insurrection is a fit of rage on the part of truth the pavements which the uprising disturbs give forth the spark of right . 
These pavements bequeath to the uprising only their mud . 
is insurrection Hebert against Danton is revolt . 
Hence it results that if insurrection in given cases may be , as Lafayette says , the most holy of duties , an uprising may be the most fatal of crimes . 
There is also a difference in the intensity of heat insurrection is often a volcano , revolt is often only a fire of straw . 
Revolt , as we have said , is sometimes found among those in power . 
Polignac is a rioter Camille Desmoulins is one of the governing powers . 
Under the Caesars , there was no insurrection , but there was Juvenal . 
The facit indignatio replaces the Gracchi . 
Under the Caesars , there is the exile to Syene there is also the man of the Annales . 
As the Neros reign in a black way , they should be painted to match . 
The work of the graving tool alone would be too pale there must be poured into the channel a concentrated prose which bites . 
Despots count for something in the question of philosophers . 
A word that is chained is a terrible word . 
The writer doubles and trebles his style when silence is imposed on a nation by its master . 
From this silence there arises a certain mysterious plenitude which filters into thought and there congeals into bronze . 
The compression of history produces conciseness in the historian . 
The granite solidity of such and such a celebrated prose is nothing but the accumulation effected by the tyrant . 
Tyranny constrains the writer to conditions of diameter which are augmentations of force . 
The Ciceronian period , which hardly sufficed for Verres , would be blunted on Caligula . 
The less spread of sail in the phrase , the more intensity in the blow . 
Tacitus thinks with all his might . 
The honesty of a great heart , condensed in justice and truth , overwhelms as with lightning . 
Be it remarked , in passing , that Tacitus is not historically superposed upon Caesar . 
The Tiberii were reserved for him . 
Caesar is great , Tacitus is great God spares these two greatnesses by not allowing them to clash with one another . 
The guardian of justice , in striking Caesar , might strike too hard and be unjust . 
God does not will it . 
The great wars of Africa and Spain , the pirates of Sicily destroyed , civilization introduced into Gaul , into Britanny , into Germany , all this glory covers the Rubicon . 
Certainly , despotism remains despotism , even under the despot of genius . 
There is corruption under all illustrious tyrants , but the moral pest is still more hideous under infamous tyrants . 
Rome smells worse under Vitellius than under Sylla . 
Under Claudius and under Domitian , there is a deformity of baseness corresponding to the repulsiveness of the tyrant . 
Hence the advent , apparently tardy , of the Tacituses and the Juvenals it is in the hour for evidence , that the demonstrator makes his appearance . 
In the majority of cases , riot proceeds from a material fact insurrection is always a moral phenomenon . 
Riot is Masaniello insurrection , Spartacus . 
Insurrection borders on mind , riot on the stomach Gaster grows irritated but Gaster , assuredly , is not always in the wrong . 
In questions of famine , riot , Buzancais , for example , holds a true , pathetic , and just point of departure . 
Nevertheless , it remains a riot . 
Why ? It is because , right at bottom , it was wrong in form . 
The nourishment of the people is a good object to massacre them is a bad means . 
All armed protests , even the most legitimate , even that of the th of August , even that of July th , begin with the same troubles . 
Before the right gets set free , there is foam and tumult . 
In the beginning , the insurrection is a riot , just as a river is a torrent . 
Ordinarily it ends in that ocean revolution . 
All this is of the past , the future is another thing . 
Universal suffrage has this admirable property , that it dissolves riot in its inception , and , by giving the vote to insurrection , it deprives it of its arms . 
The disappearance of wars , of street wars as well as of wars on the frontiers , such is the inevitable progression . 
Whatever To day may be , To morrow will be peace . 
However , insurrection , riot , and points of difference between the former and the latter , the bourgeois , properly speaking , knows nothing of such shades . 
For them , it is like a relic of . 
Excited imaginations , say they , are not to be calmed in a day . 
A revolution cannot be cut off short . 
It must needs undergo some undulations before it returns to a state of rest , like a mountain sinking into the plain . 
There are no Alps without their Jura , nor Pyrenees without the Asturias . 
This pathetic crisis of contemporary history which the memory of Parisians calls the epoch of the riots , is certainly a characteristic hour amid the stormy hours of this century . 
A last word , before we enter on the recital . 
The facts which we are about to relate belong to that dramatic and living reality , which the historian sometimes neglects for lack of time and space . 
There , nevertheless , we insist upon it , is life , palpitation , human tremor . 
Petty details , as we think we have already said , are , so to speak , the foliage of great events , and are lost in the distance of history . 
The epoch , surnamed of the riots , abounds in details of this nature . 
Judicial inquiries have not revealed , and perhaps have not sounded the depths , for another reason than history . 
We alter a few names , for history relates and does not inform against , but the deed which we shall paint will be genuine . 
As we have said , the great city resembles a piece of artillery when it is loaded , it suffices for a spark to fall , and the shot is discharged . 
In June , , the spark was the death of General Lamarque . 
Lamarque was a man of renown and of action . 
He was as eloquent as he had been valiant a sword was discernible in his speech . 
The treaties of removed him as a personal offence . 
He hated Wellington with a downright hatred which pleased the multitude and , for seventeen years , he majestically preserved the sadness of Waterloo , paying hardly any attention to intervening events . 
In his death agony , at his last hour , he clasped to his breast a sword which had been presented to him by the officers of the Hundred Days . 
Napoleon had died uttering the word army , Lamarque uttering the word country . 
His death , which was expected , was dreaded by the people as a loss , and by the government as an occasion . 
This death was an affliction . 
Like everything that is bitter , affliction may turn to revolt . 
This is what took place . 
This tumultuous network of streets was filled with rumors . 
They armed themselves as best they might . 
Joiners carried off door weights of their establishment to break down doors . 
One of them had made himself a dagger of a stocking weaver's hook by breaking off the hook and sharpening the stump . 
Another , who was in a fever to attack , slept wholly dressed for three days . 
A carpenter named Lombier met a comrade , who asked him Whither are you going ? Eh ! well , I have no weapons . 
What then ? I'm going to my timber yard to get my compasses . 
What for ? I don't know , said Lombier . 
At Filspierre's they found cartridges and arms . 
Certain well known leaders were going the rounds , that is to say , running from one house to another , to collect their men . 
At Barthelemy's , near the Barriere du Trone , at Capel's , near the Petit Chapeau , the drinkers accosted each other with a grave air . 
They were heard to say Have you your pistol ? Under my blouse . 
And you ? Under my shirt . 
In the Rue Traversiere , in front of the Bland workshop , and in the yard of the Maison Brulee , in front of tool maker Bernier's , groups whispered together . 
Mavot was killed on the following day at the barricade of the Rue Menilmontant . 
Pretot , who was destined to perish also in the struggle , seconded Mavot , and to the question What is your object ? he replied Insurrection . 
Workmen assembled at the corner of the Rue de Bercy , waited for a certain Lemarin , the revolutionary agent for the Faubourg Saint Marceau . 
Watchwords were exchanged almost publicly . 
On the th of June , accordingly , a day of mingled rain and sun , General Lamarque's funeral procession traversed Paris with official military pomp , somewhat augmented through precaution . 
Two battalions , with draped drums and reversed arms , ten thousand National Guards , with their swords at their sides , escorted the coffin . 
The hearse was drawn by young men . 
The officers of the Invalides came immediately behind it , bearing laurel branches . 
Squads chose themselves leaders a man armed with a pair of pistols in full view , seemed to pass the host in review , and the files separated before him . 
An armed throng was passing , and a terrified throng looked on . 
The Government , on its side , was taking observations . 
It observed with its hand on its sword . 
Four squadrons of carabineers could be seen in the Place Louis XV . 
The remainder of the troops were confined to their barracks , without reckoning the regiments of the environs of Paris . 
Power being uneasy , held suspended over the menacing multitude twenty four thousand soldiers in the city and thirty thousand in the banlieue . 
Divers reports were in circulation in the cortege . 
Legitimist tricks were hinted at they spoke of the Duc de Reichstadt , whom God had marked out for death at that very moment when the populace were designating him for the Empire . 
That which predominated on the uncovered brows of the majority of those present was enthusiasm mingled with dejection . 
A phenomenon to which well drilled policemen are no strangers . 
The procession proceeded , with feverish slowness , from the house of the deceased , by way of the boulevards as far as the Bastille . 
It rained from time to time the rain mattered nothing to that throng . 
One man was heard to say to another Do you see that fellow with a red beard , he's the one who will give the word when we are to fire . 
It appears that this red beard was present , at another riot , the Quenisset affair , entrusted with this same function . 
The hearse passed the Bastille , traversed the small bridge , and reached the esplanade of the bridge of Austerlitz . 
A circle was traced around the hearse . 
The vast rout held their peace . 
Lafayette spoke and bade Lamarque farewell . 
This was a touching and august instant , all heads uncovered , all hearts beat high . 
Lafayette turned aside his head . 
This red flag raised a storm , and disappeared in the midst of it . 
From the Boulevard Bourdon to the bridge of Austerlitz one of those clamors which resemble billows stirred the multitude . 
They halted two hundred paces from the little bridge . 
The carriage in which sat Lafayette advanced to them , their ranks opened and allowed it to pass , and then closed behind it . 
At that moment the dragoons and the crowd touched . 
The women fled in terror . 
What took place during that fatal minute ? No one can say . 
It is the dark moment when two clouds come together . 
Some declare that a blast of trumpets sounding the charge was heard in the direction of the Arsenal others that a blow from a dagger was given by a child to a dragoon . 
Wrath spreads abroad the riot as wind spreads a fire . 
CHAPTER IV THE EBULLITIONS OF FORMER DAYS Nothing is more extraordinary than the first breaking out of a riot . 
Everything bursts forth everywhere at once . 
Was it foreseen ? Yes . 
Was it prepared ? No. Whence comes it ? From the pavements . 
Whence falls it ? From the clouds . 
Here insurrection assumes the character of a plot there of an improvisation . 
The first comer seizes a current of the throng and leads it whither he wills . 
A beginning full of terror , in which is mingled a sort of formidable gayety . 
One of these flags was red and blue with an almost imperceptible stripe of white between . 
In order to provide more arms , one man took the gun , the other the bayonet . 
Opposite the Quai de la Greve , young men armed with muskets installed themselves in the houses of some women for the purpose of firing . 
One of them had a flint lock . 
They rang , entered , and set about making cartridges . 
One of these women relates I did not know what cartridges were it was my husband who told me . 
One cluster broke into a curiosity shop in the Rue des Vielles Haudriettes , and seized yataghans and Turkish arms . 
The body of a mason who had been killed by a gun shot lay in the Rue de la Perle . 
They forced the bourgeois to assist them in this . 
They disarmed isolated sentinels and National Guardsmen in the streets on their way to the Townhall . 
They tore the epaulets from officers . 
There , in front of the door , young men mounted on the stone corner posts , distributed arms . 
They plundered the timber yard in the Rue Transnonain in order to obtain material for barricades . 
On a single point the inhabitants resisted , at the corner of the Rue Sainte Avoye and the Rue Simon Le Franc , where they destroyed the barricade with their own hands . 
The detachment picked up in the barricade a red flag , a package of cartridges , and three hundred pistol balls . 
The National Guardsmen tore up the flag , and carried off its tattered remains on the points of their bayonets . 
In less than an hour , twenty seven barricades sprang out of the earth in the quarter of the Halles alone . 
The barricades at right angles fell back , the one of the Rue Montorgueil on the Grande Truanderie , the other of the Rue Geoffroy Langevin on the Rue Sainte Avoye . 
At the barricade of the Rue des Menetriers , a well dressed man distributed money to the workmen . 
Here , said he , this is to pay expenses , wine , et caetera . 
A light haired young man , without a cravat , went from barricade to barricade , carrying pass words . 
Another , with a naked sword , a blue police cap on his head , placed sentinels . 
In the interior , beyond the barricades , the wine shops and porters' lodges were converted into guard houses . 
Otherwise the riot was conducted after the most scientific military tactics . 
The Society of the Friends of the People had , it was said , undertaken to direct the insurrection in the Quartier Sainte Avoye . 
A man killed in the Rue du Ponceau who was searched had on his person a plan of Paris . 
That which had really undertaken the direction of the uprising was a sort of strange impetuosity which was in the air . 
The insurrection had abruptly built barricades with one hand , and with the other seized nearly all the posts of the garrison . 
A third of Paris was in the hands of the rioters . 
About six o'clock in the evening , the Passage du Saumon became the field of battle . 
The uprising was at one end , the troops were at the other . 
They fired from one gate to the other . 
An observer , a dreamer , the author of this book , who had gone to get a near view of this volcano , found himself in the passage between the two fires . 
All that he had to protect him from the bullets was the swell of the two half columns which separate the shops he remained in this delicate situation for nearly half an hour . 
Meanwhile the call to arms was beaten , the National Guard armed in haste , the legions emerged from the Mayoralities , the regiments from their barracks . 
Opposite the passage de l'Ancre a drummer received a blow from a dagger . 
Another , in the Rue du Cygne , was assailed by thirty young men who broke his instrument , and took away his sword . 
Another was killed in the Rue Grenier Saint Lazare . 
In the Rue Michelle Comte , three officers fell dead one after the other . 
Many of the Municipal Guards , on being wounded , in the Rue des Lombards , retreated . 
In front of the Cour Batave , a detachment of National Guards found a red flag bearing the following inscription Republican revolution , No. . 
Was this a revolution , in fact ? The insurrection had made of the centre of Paris a sort of inextricable , tortuous , colossal citadel . 
There was the hearth there , evidently , was the question . 
All the rest was nothing but skirmishes . 
The proof that all would be decided there lay in the fact that there was no fighting going on there as yet . 
In some regiments , the soldiers were uncertain , which added to the fearful uncertainty of the crisis . 
They recalled the popular ovation which had greeted the neutrality of the d of the Line in July , . 
Two intrepid men , tried in great wars , the Marshal Lobau and General Bugeaud , were in command , Bugeaud under Lobau . 
The insurgents , on their side , placed videttes at the corners of all open spaces , and audaciously sent their patrols outside the barricades . 
Each side was watching the other . 
The Government , with an army in its hand , hesitated the night was almost upon them , and the Saint Merry tocsin began to make itself heard . 
The Minister of War at that time , Marshal Soult , who had seen Austerlitz , regarded this with a gloomy air . 
The National Guards of the suburbs rushed up in haste and disorder . 
Solitude was formed around the Tuileries . 
Louis Philippe was perfectly serene . 
CHAPTER V ORIGINALITY OF PARIS During the last two years , as we have said , Paris had witnessed more than one insurrection . 
Nothing is , generally , more singularly calm than the physiognomy of Paris during an uprising beyond the bounds of the rebellious quarters . 
These colossal cities alone can offer such spectacles . 
These immense enclosures alone can contain at the same time civil war and an odd and indescribable tranquillity . 
Or In the Faubourg Saint Antoine . 
Often he adds carelessly Or somewhere in that direction . 
A few streets away , the shock of billiard balls can be heard in the cafes . 
The theatres open their doors and present vaudevilles the curious laugh and chat a couple of paces distant from these streets filled with war . 
Hackney carriages go their way passers by are going to a dinner somewhere in town . 
Sometimes in the very quarter where the fighting is going on . 
In , a fusillade was stopped to allow a wedding party to pass . 
Nothing can be stranger and this is the peculiar character of uprisings in Paris , which cannot be found in any other capital . 
To this end , two things are requisite , the size of Paris and its gayety . 
The city of Voltaire and Napoleon is necessary . 
On this occasion , however , in the resort to arms of June th , , the great city felt something which was , perhaps , stronger than itself . 
Closed doors , windows , and shutters were to be seen everywhere , in the most distant and most disinterested quarters . 
The courageous took to arms , the poltroons hid . 
The busy and heedless passer by disappeared . 
Many streets were empty at four o'clock in the morning . 
People busied themselves over Marshal Soult's hesitations . 
Why did not he attack at once ? It is certain that he was profoundly absorbed . 
The old lion seemed to scent an unknown monster in that gloom . 
Evening came , the theatres did not open the patrols circulated with an air of irritation passers by were searched suspicious persons were arrested . 
By nine o'clock , more than eight hundred persons had been arrested , the Prefecture of Police was encumbered with them , so was the Conciergerie , so was La Force . 
All that straw rustled by all these men , produced the sound of a heavy shower . 
Elsewhere prisoners slept in the open air in the meadows , piled on top of each other . 
Anxiety reigned everywhere , and a certain tremor which was not habitual with Paris . 
They waited for the first cannon shot . 
Men sprang up at the corners of the streets and disappeared , shouting Go home ! And people made haste to bolt their doors . 
THE ATOM FRATERNIZES WITH THE HURRICANE CHAPTER I SOME EXPLANATIONS WITH REGARD TO THE ORIGIN OF GAVROCHE'S POETRY . 
The rout was shaken , their ranks were broken , all ran , fled , made their escape , some with shouts of attack , others with the pallor of flight . 
Mother What's your name , I'm going to borrow your machine . 
And off he ran with the pistol . 
On the boulevard he noticed that the pistol had no trigger . 
Who was the author of that couplet which served to punctuate his march , and of all the other songs which he was fond of singing on occasion ? We know not . 
Who does know ? Himself , perhaps . 
However , Gavroche was well up in all the popular tunes in circulation , and he mingled with them his own chirpings . 
An observing urchin and a rogue , he made a potpourri of the voices of nature and the voices of Paris . 
He combined the repertory of the birds with the repertory of the workshops . 
He was acquainted with thieves , a tribe contiguous to his own . 
He had , it appears , been for three months apprenticed to a printer . 
He had one day executed a commission for M. Baour Lormian , one of the Forty . 
Gavroche was a gamin of letters . 
His brothers in the evening , his father in the morning that is what his night had been like . 
If you don't find papa and mamma , young 'uns , come back here this evening . 
I'll scramble you up some supper , and I'll give you a shakedown . 
The lowest depths of the actual social world are full of these lost traces . 
Gavroche did not see them again . 
Ten or twelve weeks had elapsed since that night . 
He noticed that there was but one shop open in that street , and , a matter worthy of reflection , that was a pastry cook's shop . 
This presented a providential occasion to eat another apple turnover before entering the unknown . 
Nevertheless , Gavroche pursued his way . 
Two minutes later he was in the Rue Saint Louis . 
Ask 'em what they do with their money . 
They eat it , that's what they do ! As much as their bellies will hold . 
Amid the scraps of the Marseillaise which he was singing , he shouted All goes well . 
I suffer a great deal in my left paw , I'm all broken up with rheumatism , but I'm satisfied , citizens . 
All that the bourgeois have to do is to bear themselves well , I'll sneeze them out subversive couplets . 
What are the police spies ? Dogs . 
And I'd just like to have one of them at the end of my pistol . 
I'm just from the boulevard , my friends . 
It's getting hot there , it's getting into a little boil , it's simmering . 
It's time to skim the pot . 
After which he picked up his pistol and resumed his way . 
In the Rue de Thorigny , all was peace and silence . 
This apathy , peculiar to the Marais , presented a contrast with the vast surrounding uproar . 
Four gossips were chatting in a doorway . 
The croak would be almost identical . 
The gossips of the Rue de Thorigny busied themselves only with their own concerns . 
Three of them were portresses , and the fourth was a rag picker with her basket on her back . 
All four of them seemed to be standing at the four corners of old age , which are decrepitude , decay , ruin , and sadness . 
The rag picker was humble . 
In this open air society , it is the rag picker who salutes and the portress who patronizes . 
There may be kindness in the broom . 
This rag picker was a grateful creature , and she smiled , with what a smile ! on the three portresses . 
Things of this nature were said Ah , by the way , is your cat still cross ? Good gracious , cats are naturally the enemies of dogs , you know . 
It's the dogs who complain . 
But the fleas from a cat don't go after people . 
That's not the trouble , dogs are dangerous . 
I remember one year when there were so many dogs that it was necessary to put it in the newspapers . 
That was at the time when there were at the Tuileries great sheep that drew the little carriage of the King of Rome . 
Do you remember the King of Rome ? I liked the Duc de Bordeau better . 
Meat is awfully dear , isn't it , Mother Patagon ? Ah ! don't mention it , the butcher's shop is a horror . 
A horrible horror one can't afford anything but the poor cuts nowadays . 
Here the rag picker interposed Ladies , business is dull . 
The refuse heaps are miserable . 
No one throws anything away any more . 
There are poorer people than you , la Vargouleme . 
Ah , that's true , replied the rag picker , with deference , I have a profession . 
This makes heaps in my room . 
Gavroche had stopped behind her and was listening . 
Old ladies , said he , what do you mean by talking politics ? He was assailed by a broadside , composed of a quadruple howl . 
Gavroche disdainfully contented himself , by way of reprisal , with elevating the tip of his nose with his thumb and opening his hand wide . 
The rag picker cried You malicious , bare pawed little wretch ! The one who answered to the name of Patagon clapped her hands together in horror . 
There's going to be evil doings , that's certain . 
Mame Bacheux says , that last week there was a revolution at at at where's the calf ! at Pontoise . 
And then , there you see him , that horrid scamp , with his pistol ! It seems that the Celestins are full of pistols . 
It's infamous ! And I shall certainly go to see him beheaded on the guillotine , the wretch ! You've got the sniffles , old lady , said Gavroche . 
This pistol is in your interests . 
It's so that you may have more good things to eat in your basket . 
Oh ! Come now , said Gavroche , I don't care a brass farthing for that ! Shortly afterwards , he passed the Hotel Lamoignon . 
There he uttered this appeal Forward march to the battle ! And he was seized with a fit of melancholy . 
A very gaunt poodle came along at the moment . 
Gavroche felt compassion for him . 
Chien , dog , trigger . 
My poor doggy , said he , you must have gone and swallowed a cask , for all the hoops are visible . 
Then he directed his course towards l'Orme Saint Gervais . 
The hair dresser had , naturally , spoken to the veteran of the riot , then of General Lamarque , and from Lamarque they had passed to the Emperor . 
How did the Emperor ride , sir ? said the barber . 
He did not know how to fall so he never fell . 
Did he have fine horses ? He must have had fine horses ! On the day when he gave me my cross , I noticed his beast . 
It was a racing mare , perfectly white . 
A little more than fifteen hands in height . 
A pretty horse , remarked the hair dresser . 
It was His Majesty's beast . 
I never saw him so well dressed as on that day . 
He was as neat as a new sou . 
And you , Mr. Veteran , you must have been often wounded ? I ? said the soldier , ah ! not to amount to anything . 
At Marengo , I received two sabre blows on the back of my neck , a bullet in the right arm at Austerlitz , another in the left hip at Jena . 
Ah ! and then at Waterloo , a ball from a biscaien in the thigh , that's all . 
He had hardly spoken when a fearful crash shook the shop . 
The show window had suddenly been fractured . 
The wig maker turned pale . 
Ah , good God ! he exclaimed , it's one of them ! What ? A cannon ball . 
Here it is , said the soldier . 
And he picked up something that was rolling about the floor . 
The hair dresser ran to the broken window and beheld Gavroche fleeing at the full speed , towards the Marche Saint Jean . 
You see ! shrieked the hair dresser , who from white had turned blue , that fellow returns and does mischief for the pure pleasure of it . 
They were armed after a fashion . 
Bahorel and Jean Prouvaire had found them and swelled the group . 
Feuilly , with a naked sword in his hand , marched at their head shouting Long live Poland ! They reached the Quai Morland . 
Cravatless , hatless , breathless , soaked by the rain , with lightning in their eyes . 
Gavroche accosted them calmly Where are we going ? Come along , said Courfeyrac . 
Behind Feuilly marched , or rather bounded , Bahorel , who was like a fish in water in a riot . 
He wore a scarlet waistcoat , and indulged in the sort of words which break everything . 
His waistcoat astounded a passer by , who cried in bewilderment Here are the reds ! The reds , the reds ! retorted Bahorel . 
A queer kind of fear , bourgeois . 
For my part I don't tremble before a poppy , the little red hat inspires me with no alarm . 
Take my advice , bourgeois , let's leave fear of the red to horned cattle . 
Bahorel exclaimed Flock' a polite way of saying geese . 
And he tore the charge from the nail . 
From that instant Gavroche set himself to study Bahorel . 
Bahorel , observed Enjolras , you are wrong . 
You should have let that charge alone , he is not the person with whom we have to deal , you are wasting your wrath to no purpose . 
Take care of your supply . 
One does not fire out of the ranks with the soul any more than with a gun . 
Each one in his own fashion , Enjolras , retorted Bahorel . 
This bishop's prose shocks me I want to eat eggs without being permitted . 
Your style is the hot and cold I am amusing myself . 
Besides , I'm not wasting myself , I'm getting a start and if I tore down that charge , Hercle ! 'twas only to whet my appetite . 
This word , Hercle , struck Gavroche . 
He sought all occasions for learning , and that tearer down of posters possessed his esteem . 
He inquired of him What does Hercle mean ? Bahorel answered It means cursed name of a dog , in Latin . 
A fine man ! that's true , said Gavroche , who now understood Latin . 
An old man , who appeared to be extremely aged , was walking in the band . 
He had no arms , and he made great haste , so that he might not be left behind , although he had a thoughtful air . 
Gavroche caught sight of him Keksekca ? said he to Courfeyrac . 
CHAPTER V THE OLD MAN Let us recount what had taken place . 
Enjolras and his friends had been on the Boulevard Bourdon , near the public storehouses , at the moment when the dragoons had made their charge . 
What had attracted their attention was that the goodman was walking in a zig zag , as though he were intoxicated . 
Moreover , he had his hat in his hand , although it had been raining all the morning , and was raining pretty briskly at the very time . 
Courfeyrac had recognized Father Mabeuf . 
He knew him through having many times accompanied Marius as far as his door . 
Why ? There's going to be a row . 
Thrusts with the sword and firing , M. Mabeuf . 
Where are the rest of you going ? We are going to fling the government to the earth . 
And he had set out to follow them . 
From that moment forth he had not uttered a word . 
His step had suddenly become firm artisans had offered him their arms he had refused with a sign of the head . 
He advanced nearly to the front rank of the column , with the movement of a man who is marching and the countenance of a man who is sleeping . 
What a fierce old fellow ! muttered the students . 
The rumor spread through the troop that he was a former member of the Convention , an old regicide . 
The mob had turned in through the Rue de la Verrerie . 
Little Gavroche marched in front with that deafening song which made of him a sort of trumpet . 
He sang Voici la lune qui paratt , Quand irons nous dans la foret ? Demandait Charlot a Charlotte . 
Tou tou tou Pour Chatou . 
Je n'ai qu'un Dieu , qu'un roi , qu'un liard , et qu'une botte . 
Pour avoir bu de grand matin La rosee a meme le thym , Deux moineaux etaient en ribotte . 
Zi zi zi Pour Passy . 
Je n'ai qu'un Dieu , qu'un roi , qu'un liard , et qu'une botte . 
Et ces deux pauvres petits loups , Comme deux grives estaient souls Une tigre en riait dans sa grotte . 
Don don don Pour Meudon . 
Je n'ai qu'un Dieu , qu'un roi , qu'un liard , et qu'une botte . 
L'un jurait et l'autre sacrait . 
Quand irons nous dans la foret ? Demandait Charlot a Charlotte . 
Tin tin tin Pour Pantin . 
Je n'ai qu'un Dieu , qu'un roi , qu'un liard , et qu'une botte . 
They directed their course towards Saint Merry . 
Here is the morn appearing . 
When shall we go to the forest , Charlot asked Charlotte . 
Tou , tou , tou , for Chatou , I have but one God , one King , one half farthing , and one boot . 
And these two poor little wolves were as tipsy as sparrows from having drunk dew and thyme very early in the morning . 
And these two poor little things were as drunk as thrushes in a vineyard a tiger laughed at them in his cave . 
The one cursed , the other swore . 
When shall we go to the forest ? Charlot asked Charlotte . 
CHAPTER VI RECRUITS The band augmented every moment . 
It chanced that in the Rue de la Verrerie , they passed in front of Courfeyrac's door . 
This happens just right , said Courfeyrac , I have forgotten my purse , and I have lost my hat . 
He quitted the mob and ran up to his quarters at full speed . 
He seized an old hat and his purse . 
He also seized a large square coffer , of the dimensions of a large valise , which was concealed under his soiled linen . 
As he descended again at a run , the portress hailed him Monsieur de Courfeyrac ! What's your name , portress ? The portress stood bewildered . 
Why , you know perfectly well , I'm the concierge my name is Mother Veuvain . 
Well , if you call me Monsieur de Courfeyrac again , I shall call you Mother de Veuvain . 
Now speak , what's the matter ? What do you want ? There is some one who wants to speak with you . 
Who is it ? I don't know . 
Where is he ? In my lodge . 
The devil ! ejaculated Courfeyrac . 
But the person has been waiting your return for over an hour , said the portress . 
Will he return this evening ? I know nothing about it . 
And Courfeyrac added For my part , I shall not return . 
The young man gazed steadily at him and said Why not ? Because . 
Where are you going , then ? What business is that of yours ? Would you like to have me carry your coffer for you ? I am going to the barricades . 
Would you like to have me go with you ? If you like ! replied Courfeyrac . 
The street is free , the pavements belong to every one . 
And he made his escape at a run to join his friends . 
When he had rejoined them , he gave the coffer to one of them to carry . 
It was only a quarter of an hour after this that he saw the young man , who had actually followed them . 
A mob does not go precisely where it intends . 
We have explained that a gust of wind carries it away . 
They overshot Saint Merry and found themselves , without precisely knowing how , in the Rue Saint Denis . 
It was there that lay the Rue de la Chanvrerie , which ancient deeds spell Chanverrerie , and the celebrated public house called Corinthe . 
The reader will remember all that has been said about the barricade effected at this point , and eclipsed , by the way , by the barricade Saint Merry . 
It was on this famous barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie , now fallen into profound obscurity , that we are about to shed a little light . 
May we be permitted to recur , for the sake of clearness in the recital , to the simple means which we have already employed in the case of Waterloo . 
The old Rue Mondetour cut the three strokes of the N at the most crooked angles . 
We say narrow crannies , and we can give no more just idea of those dark , contracted , many angled alleys , lined with eight story buildings . 
The Rue Rambuteau has devastated all that . 
The name of Mondetour paints marvellously well the sinuosities of that whole set of streets . 
A little further on , they are found still better expressed by the Rue Pirouette , which ran into the Rue Mondetour . 
The passer by who got entangled from the Rue Saint Denis in the Rue de la Chanvrerie beheld it gradually close in before him as though he had entered an elongated funnel . 
This was the Rue Mondetour , which on one side ran into the Rue de Precheurs , and on the other into the Rue du Cygne and the Petite Truanderie . 
It is in this house , of two stories only , that an illustrious wine shop had been merrily installed three hundred years before . 
This tavern created a joyous noise in the very spot which old Theophilus described in the following couplet La branle le squelette horrible D'un pauvre amant qui se pendit . 
There swings the horrible skeleton of a poor lover who hung himself . 
The situation was good , and tavern keepers succeeded each other there , from father to son . 
Hence the name of Corinthe . 
Nothing is more natural to drunken men than ellipses . 
The ellipsis is the zig zag of the phrase . 
Corinthe gradually dethroned the Pot aux Roses . 
The last proprietor of the dynasty , Father Hucheloup , no longer acquainted even with the tradition , had the post painted blue . 
A staircase with a trap door in the lower room led to the cellar . 
On the second floor were the lodgings of the Hucheloup family . 
They were reached by a staircase which was a ladder rather than a staircase , and had for their entrance only a private door in the large room on the first floor . 
Under the roof , in two mansard attics , were the nests for the servants . 
The kitchen shared the ground floor with the tap room . 
Hucheloup had invented a capital thing which could be eaten nowhere but in his house , stuffed carps , which he called carpes au gras . 
These were eaten by the light of a tallow candle or of a lamp of the time of Louis XVI . 
, on tables to which were nailed waxed cloths in lieu of table cloths . 
People came thither from a distance . 
Time and rain assisting , a humble gastronomical announcement had become a profound piece of advice . 
And the striking thing about it was , that that also meant Enter my wine shop . 
Nothing of all this is in existence now . 
The Mondetour labyrinth was disembowelled and widely opened in , and probably no longer exists at the present moment . 
The Rue de la Chanvrerie and Corinthe have disappeared beneath the pavement of the Rue Rambuteau . 
As we have already said , Corinthe was the meeting place if not the rallying point , of Courfeyrac and his friends . 
It was Grantaire who had discovered Corinthe . 
He had entered it on account of the Carpe horas , and had returned thither on account of the Carpes au gras . 
There they drank , there they ate , there they shouted they did not pay much , they paid badly , they did not pay at all , but they were always welcome . 
Father Hucheloup was a jovial host . 
Hucheloup , that amiable man , as was just said , was a wine shop keeper with a mustache an amusing variety . 
And yet , we insist upon the word , people were always welcome there . 
This oddity had attracted customers to his shop , and brought him young men , who said to each other Come hear Father Hucheloup growl . 
He had been a fencing master . 
All of a sudden , he would burst out laughing . 
A big voice , a good fellow . 
He had a comic foundation under a tragic exterior , he asked nothing better than to frighten you , very much like those snuff boxes which are in the shape of a pistol . 
The detonation makes one sneeze . 
Mother Hucheloup , his wife , was a bearded and a very homely creature . 
About , Father Hucheloup died . 
With him disappeared the secret of stuffed carps . 
His inconsolable widow continued to keep the wine shop . 
But the cooking deteriorated , and became execrable the wine , which had always been bad , became fearfully bad . 
Nevertheless , Courfeyrac and his friends continued to go to Corinthe , out of pity , as Bossuet said . 
The Widow Hucheloup was breathless and misshapen and given to rustic recollections . 
She deprived them of their flatness by her pronunciation . 
She had a way of her own of saying things , which spiced her reminiscences of the village and of her springtime . 
chanter dans les ogrepines to hear the redbreasts sing in the hawthorn trees . 
It was reached by a spiral staircase which terminated in the corner of the room at a square hole like the hatchway of a ship . 
This room , lighted by a single narrow window , and by a lamp that was always burning , had the air of a garret . 
This was scrawled in charcoal on the wall . 
Mame Hucheloup , a good likeness , went and came from morning till night before this quatrain with the most perfect tranquillity . 
Matelote a culinary preparation of various fishes . 
Before entering the restaurant room , the visitor read on the door the following line written there in chalk by Courfeyrac Regale si tu peux et mange si tu l'oses . 
Treat if you can , and eat if you dare . 
CHAPTER II PRELIMINARY GAYETIES Laigle de Meaux , as the reader knows , lived more with Joly than elsewhere . 
He had a lodging , as a bird has one on a branch . 
The two friends lived together , ate together , slept together . 
They had everything in common , even Musichetta , to some extent . 
They were , what the subordinate monks who accompany monks are called , bini . 
On the morning of the th of June , they went to Corinthe to breakfast . 
Joly , who was all stuffed up , had a catarrh which Laigle was beginning to share . 
Laigle's coat was threadbare , but Joly was well dressed . 
It was about nine o'clock in the morning , when they opened the door of Corinthe . 
They ascended to the first floor . 
Matelote and Gibelotte received them . 
Oysters , cheese , and ham , said Laigle . 
And they seated themselves at a table . 
The wine shop was empty there was no one there but themselves . 
Gibelotte , knowing Joly and Laigle , set a bottle of wine on the table . 
While they were busy with their first oysters , a head appeared at the hatchway of the staircase , and a voice said I am passing by . 
I smell from the street a delicious odor of Brie cheese . 
Grantaire took a stool and drew up to the table . 
At the sight of Grantaire , Gibelotte placed two bottles of wine on the table . 
Are you going to drink those two bottles ? Laigle inquired of Grantaire . 
Grantaire replied All are ingenious , thou alone art ingenuous . 
Two bottles never yet astonished a man . 
The others had begun by eating , Grantaire began by drinking . 
Half a bottle was rapidly gulped down . 
So you have a hole in your stomach ? began Laigle again . 
You have one in your elbow , said Grantaire . 
And after having emptied his glass , he added Ah , by the way , Laigle of the funeral oration , your coat is old . 
I should hope so , retorted Laigle . 
Old coats are just like old friends . 
That's true , ejaculated Joly , striking into the dialogue , an old goat is an old abi . 
Especially in the mouth of a man whose head is stuffed up , said Grantaire . 
How quiet this street is ! exclaimed Laigle . 
Don't let's talk of monks , interrupted Grantaire , it makes one want to scratch one's self . 
Then he exclaimed Bouh ! I've just swallowed a bad oyster . 
Now hypochondria is taking possession of me again . 
The oysters are spoiled , the servants are ugly . 
I hate the human race . 
I just passed through the Rue Richelieu , in front of the big public library . 
That pile of oyster shells which is called a library is disgusting even to think of . 
Now here she is a bankeress . 
This transformation took place last night . 
I met the victim this morning in high spirits . 
The hideous point about it is , that the jade is as pretty to day as she was yesterday . 
Her financier did not show in her face . 
Roses have this advantage or disadvantage over women , that the traces left upon them by caterpillars are visible . 
Ah ! there is no morality on earth . 
As for right , do you know what right is ? The Gauls covet Clusium , Rome protects Clusium , and demands what wrong Clusium has done to them . 
We understand neighborliness just as you do . 
You have stolen Alba , we shall take Clusium . 
Rome said You shall not take Clusium . 
Then he cried Vae victis ! That is what right is . 
Ah ! what beasts of prey there are in this world ! What eagles ! It makes my flesh creep . 
Bipede sans plume biped without feathers pen . 
There is no more modesty in the one case than in the other . 
So we believe in nothing . 
There is but one reality drink . 
You talk to me of the boulevard , of that procession , et caetera , et caetera . 
Come now , is there going to be another revolution ? This poverty of means on the part of the good God astounds me . 
He has to keep greasing the groove of events every moment . 
There is a hitch , it won't work . 
Quick , a revolution ! The good God has his hands perpetually black with that cart grease . 
What the rest of you call progress advances by means of two motors , men and events . 
But , sad to say , from time to time , the exceptional becomes necessary . 
The ordinary troupe suffices neither for event nor for men among men geniuses are required , among events revolutions . 
At the moment when one expects it the least , God placards a meteor on the wall of the firmament . 
Some queer star turns up , underlined by an enormous tail . 
And that causes the death of Caesar . 
Brutus deals him a blow with a knife , and God a blow with a comet . 
Crac , and behold an aurora borealis , behold a revolution , behold a great man in big letters , Napoleon on guard , the comet of at the head of the poster . 
Ah ! what a beautiful blue theatre all studded with unexpected flashes ! Boum ! Boum ! extraordinary show ! Raise your eyes , boobies . 
Everything is in disorder , the star as well as the drama . 
Good God , it is too much and not enough . 
These resources , gathered from exception , seem magnificence and poverty . 
My friends , Providence has come down to expedients . 
What does a revolution prove ? That God is in a quandry . 
He effects a coup d'etat because he , God , has not been able to make both ends meet . 
The appearance exists , it is true , but I feel that he is hard up . 
He gives a revolution as a tradesman whose money box is empty gives a ball . 
God must not be judged from appearances . 
Beneath the gilding of heaven I perceive a poverty stricken universe . 
That is why I am discontented . 
This is the inexactness of an ill paid clerk . 
It's like children , those who want them have none , and those who don't want them have them . 
Besides , Laigle de Meaux , that bald head , offends my sight . 
It humiliates me to think that I am of the same age as that baldy . 
However , I criticise , but I do not insult . 
The universe is what it is . 
I speak here without evil intent and to ease my conscience . 
Receive , Eternal Father , the assurance of my distinguished consideration . 
Those are the positions for which I was born ! Yes , I have said a Turk , and I will not retract . 
The earth is a great piece of stupidity . 
An old broken lantern which I have just seen at a bric a brac merchant's suggests a reflection to my mind it is time to enlighten the human race . 
Yes , behold me sad again . 
That's what comes of swallowing an oyster and a revolution the wrong way ! I am growing melancholy once more . 
Oh ! frightful old world . 
A propos of revolution , said Joly , it is decidedly abberent that Barius is in lub . 
Does any one know with whom ? demanded Laigle . 
No ? Do ! I tell you . 
Marius' love affairs ! exclaimed Grantaire . 
Marius is a fog , and he must have found a vapor . 
Marius is of the race of poets . 
He who says poet , says fool , madman , Tymbraeus Apollo . 
Marius and his Marie , or his Marion , or his Maria , or his Mariette . 
They must make a queer pair of lovers . 
I know just what it is like . 
Ecstasies in which they forget to kiss . 
Pure on earth , but joined in heaven . 
They are souls possessed of senses . 
They lie among the stars . 
Grantaire was attacking his second bottle and , possibly , his second harangue , when a new personage emerged from the square aperture of the stairs . 
The child unhesitatingly making his choice among the three , addressed himself to Laigle de Meaux . 
Are you Monsieur Bossuet ? That is my nickname , replied Laigle . 
What do you want with me ? This . 
A tall blonde fellow on the boulevard said to me Do you know Mother Hucheloup ? I said Yes , Rue Chanvrerie , the old man's widow he said to me Go there . 
There you will find M. Bossuet . 
Tell him from me A B C . 
It's a joke that they're playing on you , isn't it . 
He gave me ten sous . 
Joly , lend me ten sous , said Laigle and , turning to Grantaire Grantaire , lend me ten sous . 
This made twenty sous , which Laigle handed to the lad . 
Thank you , sir , said the urchin . 
What is your name ? inquired Laigle . 
Stay with us , said Laigle . 
The child gone , Grantaire took the word That is the pure bred gamin . 
There are a great many varieties of the gamin species . 
In the meantime , Laigle was engaged in reflection he said half aloud A B C , that is to say the burial of Lamarque . 
The tall blonde , remarked Grantaire , is Enjolras , who is sending you a warning . 
Shall we go ? ejaculated Bossuet . 
It's raiding , said Joly . 
I have sworn to go through fire , but not through water . 
I don't wand to ged a gold . 
I shall stay here , said Grantaire . 
I prefer a breakfast to a hearse . 
Conclusion we remain , said Laigle . 
Well , then , let us drink . 
Besides , we might miss the funeral without missing the riot . 
Ah ! the riot , I am with you ! cried Joly . 
Now we're going to touch up the revolution of . 
As a matter of fact , it does hurt the people along the seams . 
I don't think much of your revolution , said Grantaire . 
I don't execrate this Government . 
It is the crown tempered by the cotton night cap . 
It is a sceptre ending in an umbrella . 
The room was dark , large clouds had just finished the extinction of daylight . 
There was no one in the wine shop , or in the street , every one having gone off to watch events . 
Is it mid day or midnight ? cried Bossuet . 
You can't see your hand before your face . 
Gibelotte , fetch a light . 
Grantaire was drinking in a melancholy way . 
Enjolras disdains me , he muttered . 
Enjolras said Joly is ill , Grantaire is drunk . 
It was to Bossuet that he sent Navet . 
If he had come for me , I would have followed him . 
So much the worse for Enjolras ! I won't go to his funeral . 
This resolution once arrived at , Bossuet , Joly , and Grantaire did not stir from the wine shop . 
By two o'clock in the afternoon , the table at which they sat was covered with empty bottles . 
Two candles were burning on it , one in a flat copper candlestick which was perfectly green , the other in the neck of a cracked carafe . 
Grantaire had seduced Joly and Bossuet to wine Bossuet and Joly had conducted Grantaire back towards cheerfulness . 
As for Grantaire , he had got beyond wine , that merely moderate inspirer of dreams , ever since mid day . 
Wine enjoys only a conventional popularity with serious drinkers . 
There is , in fact , in the matter of inebriety , white magic and black magic wine is only white magic . 
Grantaire was a daring drinker of dreams . 
The blackness of a terrible fit of drunkenness yawning before him , far from arresting him , attracted him . 
He had abandoned the bottle and taken to the beerglass . 
The beer glass is the abyss . 
It is of these three vapors , beer , brandy , and absinthe , that the lead of the soul is composed . 
Grantaire had not yet reached that lamentable phase far from it . 
He was tremendously gay , and Bossuet and Joly retorted . 
He has already devoured , since this bording , in wild prodigality , two francs and ninety five centibes . 
He was seated on the sill of the open window , wetting his back in the falling rain , and gazing at his two friends . 
The Rue de la Chanvrerie was not more than a gunshot long . 
Well , here ! This is a good place ! Make it here ! That's true , Aigle , said Courfeyrac . 
And at a signal from Courfeyrac , the mob flung themselves into the Rue de la Chanvrerie . 
Bossuet had the comprehensive glance of a fasting Hannibal . 
Terror had seized on the whole street at the irruption of the mob . 
There was not a passer by who did not get out of sight . 
A terrified old woman fixed a mattress in front of her window on two clothes poles for drying linen , in order to deaden the effect of musketry . 
The wine shop alone remained open and that for a very good reason , that the mob had rushed into it . 
Ah my God ! Ah my God ! sighed Mame Hucheloup . 
Bossuet had gone down to meet Courfeyrac . 
Joly , who had placed himself at the window , exclaimed Courfeyrac , you ought to have brought an umbrella . 
Blocks which were improvised like the rest and procured no one knows where . 
The beams which served as props were torn from the neighboring house fronts and laid on the casks . 
When Bossuet and Courfeyrac turned round , half the street was already barred with a rampart higher than a man . 
There is nothing like the hand of the populace for building everything that is built by demolishing . 
Matelote and Gibelotte had mingled with the workers . 
Gibelotte went and came loaded with rubbish . 
Her lassitude helped on the barricade . 
She served the barricade as she would have served wine , with a sleepy air . 
An omnibus with two white horses passed the end of the street . 
Omnibuses , said he , do not pass the Corinthe . 
Non licet omnibus adire Corinthum . 
An instant later , the horses were unharnessed and went off at their will , through the Rue Mondetour , and the omnibus lying on its side completed the bar across the street . 
Mame Hucheloup , quite upset , had taken refuge in the first story . 
Her eyes were vague , and stared without seeing anything , and she cried in a low tone . 
Her terrified shrieks did not dare to emerge from her throat . 
The end of the world has come , she muttered . 
But Grantaire attained to the highest regions of dithryamb . 
Matelote had mounted to the first floor once more , Grantaire seized her round her waist , and gave vent to long bursts of laughter at the window . 
Matelote is homely ! he cried Matelote is of a dream of ugliness ! Matelote is a chimaera . 
This is the secret of her birth a Gothic Pygmalion , who was making gargoyles for cathedrals , fell in love with one of them , the most horrible , one fine morning . 
He besought Love to give it life , and this produced Matelote . 
Look at her , citizens ! She has chromate of lead colored hair , like Titian's mistress , and she is a good girl . 
I guarantee that she will fight well . 
Every good girl contains a hero . 
As for Mother Hucheloup , she's an old warrior . 
Look at her moustaches ! She inherited them from her husband . 
A hussar indeed ! She will fight too . 
These two alone will strike terror to the heart of the banlieue . 
Comrades , we shall overthrow the government as true as there are fifteen intermediary acids between margaric acid and formic acid however , that is a matter of perfect indifference to me . 
Gentlemen , my father always detested me because I could not understand mathematics . 
I understand only love and liberty . 
I am Grantaire , the good fellow . 
Hold your tongue , you cask ! said Courfeyrac . 
Grantaire retorted I am the capitoul and the master of the floral games ! Municipal officer of Toulouse . 
Enjolras , who was standing on the crest of the barricade , gun in hand , raised his beautiful , austere face . 
Enjolras , as the reader knows , had something of the Spartan and of the Puritan in his composition . 
He would have perished at Thermopylae with Leonidas , and burned at Drogheda with Cromwell . 
Grantaire , he shouted , go get rid of the fumes of your wine somewhere else than here . 
This is the place for enthusiasm , not for drunkenness . 
Don't disgrace the barricade ! This angry speech produced a singular effect on Grantaire . 
One would have said that he had had a glass of cold water flung in his face . 
He seemed to be rendered suddenly sober . 
He sat down , put his elbows on a table near the window , looked at Enjolras with indescribable gentleness , and said to him Let me sleep here . 
Go and sleep somewhere else , cried Enjolras . 
But Grantaire , still keeping his tender and troubled eyes fixed on him , replied Let me sleep here , until I die . 
Enjolras regarded him with disdainful eyes Grantaire , you are incapable of believing , of thinking , of willing , of living , and of dying . 
Grantaire replied in a grave tone You will see . 
If that isn't an abomination , what is ! Well , Mother Hucheloup , we are avenging you . 
Mother Hucheloup did not appear to understand very clearly the benefit which she was to derive from these reprisals made on her account . 
The father asked On which cheek did you receive the blow ? On the left cheek . 
The father slapped her right cheek and said Now you are satisfied . 
Go tell your husband that he boxed my daughter's ears , and that I have accordingly boxed his wife's . 
This festival was very recent , having taken place on the st of May . 
It was said that these munitions came from a grocer in the Faubourg Saint Antoine named Pepin . 
Enjolras , Combeferre , and Courfeyrac directed everything . 
This last barricade , which was very narrow , was constructed only of casks and paving stones . 
There were about fifty workers on it thirty were armed with guns for , on their way , they had effected a wholesale loan from an armorer's shop . 
Nothing could be more bizarre and at the same time more motley than this troop . 
There was one who was shouting Let us exterminate them to the last man and die at the point of our bayonet . 
This man had no bayonet . 
Another spread out over his coat the cross belt and cartridge box of a National Guardsman , the cover of the cartridge box being ornamented with this inscription in red worsted Public Order . 
There were a great many guns bearing the numbers of the legions , few hats , no cravats , many bare arms , some pikes . 
Add to this , all ages , all sorts of faces , small , pale young men , and bronzed longshoremen . 
All were in haste and as they helped each other , they discussed the possible chances . 
That they would receive succor about three o'clock in the morning that they were sure of one regiment , that Paris would rise . 
Terrible sayings with which was mingled a sort of cordial joviality . 
One would have pronounced them brothers , but they did not know each other's names . 
Great perils have this fine characteristic , that they bring to light the fraternity of strangers . 
In the midst of it all , they drank . 
Caps and buckshot were mixed pell mell on the tables with glasses of wine . 
Gavroche was working on the larger one . 
Gavroche , completely carried away and radiant , had undertaken to get everything in readiness . 
He went , came , mounted , descended , re mounted , whistled , and sparkled . 
He seemed to be there for the encouragement of all . 
Had he any incentive ? Yes , certainly , his poverty had he wings ? yes , certainly , his joy . 
He was constantly visible , he was incessantly audible . 
He filled the air , as he was everywhere at once . 
He was a sort of almost irritating ubiquity no halt was possible with him . 
The enormous barricade felt him on its haunches . 
Perpetual motion was in his little arms and perpetual clamor in his little lungs . 
It must be carried up . 
Put everything on it , fling everything there , stick it all in . 
A barricade is Mother Gibou's tea . 
Hullo , here's a glass door . 
This elicited an exclamation from the workers . 
A glass door ? what do you expect us to do with a glass door , tubercle ? Hercules yourselves ! retorted Gavroche . 
A glass door is an excellent thing in a barricade . 
It does not prevent an attack , but it prevents the enemy taking it . 
So you've never prigged apples over a wall where there were broken bottles ? A glass door cuts the corns of the National Guard when they try to mount on the barricade . 
Pardi ! glass is a treacherous thing . 
Well , you haven't a very wildly lively imagination , comrades . 
However , he was furious over his triggerless pistol . 
He went from one to another , demanding A gun , I want a gun ! Why don't you give me a gun ? Give you a gun ! said Combeferre . 
Come now ! said Gavroche , why not ? I had one in when we had a dispute with Charles X. Enjolras shrugged his shoulders . 
When there are enough for the men , we will give some to the children . 
Gavroche wheeled round haughtily , and answered If you are killed before me , I shall take yours . 
The fact is , that it did not exceed an average height of six or seven feet . 
The pole of the omnibus was placed upright and held up with ropes , and a red flag , fastened to this pole , floated over the barricade . 
The little Mondetour barricade , hidden behind the wine shop building , was not visible . 
The two barricades united formed a veritable redoubt . 
The two barricades being finished , and the flag run up , a table was dragged out of the wine shop and Courfeyrac mounted on the table . 
Enjolras brought the square coffer , and Courfeyrac opened it . 
This coffer was filled with cartridges . 
When the mob saw the cartridges , a tremor ran through the bravest , and a momentary silence ensued . 
Courfeyrac distributed them with a smile . 
Each one received thirty cartridges . 
Many had powder , and set about making others with the bullets which they had run . 
As for the barrel of powder , it stood on a table on one side , near the door , and was held in reserve . 
This noise retreated at times , and again drew near , with melancholy undulations . 
They loaded the guns and carbines , all together , without haste , with solemn gravity . 
CHAPTER VI WAITING During those hours of waiting , what did they do ? We must needs tell , since this is a matter of history . 
Avocat sans causes , Quand je vous menais au Prado diner , Vous etiez jolie au point que les roses Me faisaient l'effet de se retourner . 
Je les entendais dire Est elle belle ! Comme elle sent bon ! Quels cheveux a flots ! Sous son mantelet elle cache une aile , Son bonnet charmant est a peine eclos . 
J'errais avec toi , pressant ton bras souple . 
Les passants crovaient que l'amour charme Avait marie , dans notre heureux couple , Le doux mois d'avril au beau mois de mai . 
Nous vivions caches , contents , porte close , Devorant l'amour , bon fruit defendu , Ma bouche n'avait pas dit une chose Que deja ton coeur avait repondu . 
La Sorbonne etait l'endroit bucolique Ou je t'adorais du soir au matin . 
C'est ainsi qu'une ame amoureuse applique La carte du Tendre au pays Latin . 
J'ai fort lu Platon , mais rien ne m'en reste Mieux que Malebranche et que Lamennais , Tu me demontrais la bonte celeste Avec une fleur que tu me donnais . 
Je t'obeissais , tu m' etais soumise O grenier dore ! te lacer ! te voir Aller et venir des l'aube en chemise , Mirant ton jeune front a ton vieux miroir . 
Je baisais au vol tes bras frais et ronds . 
Dante in folio nous servait de table Pour manger gaiment un cent de marrons . 
Fair days ! Manuel was proud and wise , Paris sat at sacred banquets , Foy launched thunderbolts , and your corsage had a pin on which I pricked myself . 
Her charming bonnet is hardly unfolded . 
I wandered with thee , pressing thy supple arm . 
The passers by thought that love bewitched had wedded , in our happy couple , the gentle month of April to the fair month of May . 
We lived concealed , content , with closed doors , devouring love , that sweet forbidden fruit . 
My mouth had not uttered a thing when thy heart had already responded . 
The Sorbonne was the bucolic spot where I adored thee from eve till morn . 
'Tis thus that an amorous soul applies the chart of the Tender to the Latin country . 
I kissed thy fresh round arms in haste . 
A folio Dante served us as a table on which to eat merrily a centime's worth of chestnuts . 
These torches , as the reader has seen , came from the Faubourg Saint Antoine . 
The street and the barricade remained sunk in gloom , and nothing was to be seen except the red flag formidably illuminated as by an enormous dark lantern . 
This light enhanced the scarlet of the flag , with an indescribable and terrible purple . 
CHAPTER VII THE MAN RECRUITED IN THE RUE DES BILLETTES Night was fully come , nothing made its appearance . 
All that they heard was confused noises , and at intervals , fusillades but these were rare , badly sustained and distant . 
This respite , which was thus prolonged , was a sign that the Government was taking its time , and collecting its forces . 
These fifty men were waiting for sixty thousand . 
Enjolras felt attacked by that impatience which seizes on strong souls on the threshold of redoubtable events . 
These two candles cast no gleam outside . 
The insurgents had , moreover , taken pains not to have any light in the upper stories . 
Gavroche was deeply preoccupied at that moment , but not precisely with his cartridges . 
The man of the Rue des Billettes had just entered the tap room and had seated himself at the table which was the least lighted . 
A musket of large model had fallen to his share , and he held it between his legs . 
Gavroche , who had been , up to that moment , distracted by a hundred amusing things , had not even seen this man . 
The gamin approached this pensive personage , and began to step around him on tiptoe , as one walks in the vicinity of a person whom one is afraid of waking . 
Gavroche balanced on his heels , clenched both fists in his pockets , moved his neck around like a bird , expended in a gigantic pout all the sagacity of his lower lip . 
He was astounded , uncertain , incredulous , convinced , dazzled . 
His whole being was at work , the instinct which scents out , and the intelligence which combines . 
It was evident that a great event had happened in Gavroche's life . 
It was at the most intense point of this preoccupation that Enjolras accosted him . 
You are small , said Enjolras , you will not be seen . 
Go out of the barricade , slip along close to the houses , skirmish about a bit in the streets , and come back and tell me what is going on . 
Gavroche raised himself on his haunches . 
So the little chaps are good for something ! that's very lucky ! I'll go ! In the meanwhile , trust to the little fellows , and distrust the big ones . 
Are you sure of it ? It isn't two weeks since he pulled me off the cornice of the Port Royal , where I was taking the air , by my ear . 
Enjolras hastily quitted the urchin and murmured a few words in a very low tone to a longshoreman from the winedocks who chanced to be at hand . 
The man left the room , and returned almost immediately , accompanied by three others . 
They were evidently ready to hurl themselves upon him . 
Then Enjolras approached the man and demanded of him Who are you ? At this abrupt query , the man started . 
He plunged his gaze deep into Enjolras' clear eyes and appeared to grasp the latter's meaning . 
Well , yes ! You are a police spy ? I am an agent of the authorities . 
And your name ? Javert . 
Enjolras made a sign to the four men . 
In the twinkling of an eye , before Javert had time to turn round , he was collared , thrown down , pinioned and searched . 
Besides this , he had his watch and his purse , which contained several gold pieces . 
They left him his purse and his watch . 
All this was so rapidly executed , that it was all over when those about the wine shop noticed it . 
Javert had not uttered a single cry . 
At the sight of Javert bound to the post , Courfeyrac , Bossuet , Joly , Combeferre , and the men scattered over the two barricades came running up . 
He is a police spy , said Enjolras . 
And turning to Javert You will be shot ten minutes before the barricade is taken . 
Javert replied in his most imperious tone Why not at once ? We are saving our powder . 
Then finish the business with a blow from a knife . 
Spy , said the handsome Enjolras , we are judges and not assassins . 
Then he called Gavroche Here you ! go about your business ! Do what I told you ! I'm going ! cried Gavroche . 
The gamin made the military salute and passed gayly through the opening in the large barricade . 
Mobs , as the reader knows , are like a snowball , and collect as they roll along , a throng of tumultuous men . 
These men do not ask each other whence they come . 
All at once he exclaimed Do you know , comrades , it is from that house yonder that we must fire . 
Let us knock ! They will not open . 
Let us break in the door ! Le Cabuc runs to the door , which had a very massive knocker , and knocks . 
He strikes a second blow . 
Is there any one here ? shouts Cabuc . 
Then he seizes a gun and begins to batter the door with the butt end . 
The blows from the butt end of the gun made the house tremble , but did not shake the door . 
The man who was knocking paused . 
Gentlemen , said the porter , what do you want ? Open ! said Cabuc . 
That cannot be , gentlemen . 
Le Cabuc took his gun and aimed at the porter but as he was below , and as it was very dark , the porter did not see him . 
Will you open , yes or no ? No , gentlemen . 
Do you say no ? I say no , my goo The porter did not finish . 
The shot was fired the ball entered under his chin and came out at the nape of his neck , after traversing the jugular vein . 
The old man fell back without a sigh . 
There ! said Le Cabuc , dropping the butt end of his gun to the pavement . 
The murderer turned round and saw before him Enjolras' cold , white face . 
Enjolras held a pistol in his hand . 
He had hastened up at the sound of the discharge . 
He had seized Cabuc's collar , blouse , shirt , and suspender with his left hand . 
On your knees ! he repeated . 
And , with an imperious motion , the frail young man of twenty years bent the thickset and sturdy porter like a reed , and brought him to his knees in the mire . 
Le Cabuc attempted to resist , but he seemed to have been seized by a superhuman hand . 
Enjolras , pale , with bare neck and dishevelled hair , and his woman's face , had about him at that moment something of the antique Themis . 
Le Cabuc , vanquished , no longer tried to struggle , and trembled in every limb . 
Enjolras released him and drew out his watch . 
Collect yourself , said he . 
Mercy ! murmured the murderer then he dropped his head and stammered a few inarticulate oaths . 
Enjolras never took his eyes off of him he allowed a minute to pass , then he replaced his watch in his fob . 
Many of those intrepid men , who had so tranquilly entered upon the most terrible of adventures , turned aside their heads . 
An explosion was heard , the assassin fell to the pavement face downwards . 
Enjolras straightened himself up , and cast a convinced and severe glance around him . 
Then he spurned the corpse with his foot and said Throw that outside . 
It is impossible to say what grandiose shadows slowly spread over his redoubtable serenity . 
All at once he raised his voice . 
A silence fell upon them . 
Citizens , said Enjolras , what that man did is frightful , what I have done is horrible . 
He killed , therefore I killed him . 
I had to do it , because insurrection must have its discipline . 
I have , therefore , tried that man , and condemned him to death . 
Those who listened to him shuddered . 
We will share thy fate , cried Combeferre . 
So be it , replied Enjolras . 
In executing this man , I have obeyed necessity but necessity is a monster of the old world , necessity's name is Fatality . 
Now , the law of progress is , that monsters shall disappear before the angels , and that Fatality shall vanish before Fraternity . 
It is a bad moment to pronounce the word love . 
No matter , I do pronounce it . 
Love , the future is thine . 
Death , I make use of thee , but I hate thee . 
Citizens , in the future there will be neither darkness nor thunderbolts neither ferocious ignorance , nor bloody retaliation . 
As there will be no more Satan , there will be no more Michael . 
In the future no one will kill any one else , the earth will beam with radiance , the human race will love . 
His virgin lips closed and he remained for some time standing on the spot where he had shed blood , in marble immobility . 
His staring eye caused those about him to speak in low tones . 
Let us say at once that later on , after the action , when the bodies were taken to the morgue and searched , a police agent's card was found on Le Cabuc . 
The author of this book had in his hands , in , the special report on this subject made to the Prefect of Police in . 
We will add , that if we are to believe a tradition of the police , which is strange but probably well founded , Le Cabuc was Claquesous . 
The fact is , that dating from the death of Le Cabuc , there was no longer any question of Claquesous . 
Claquesous had nowhere left any trace of his disappearance he would seem to have amalgamated himself with the invisible . 
His life had been all shadows , his end was night . 
This lad , who had a bold and reckless air , had come by night to join the insurgents . 
He wished to die the opportunity presented itself he knocked at the door of the tomb , a hand in the darkness offered him the key . 
These melancholy openings which take place in the gloom before despair , are tempting . 
Marius thrust aside the bar which had so often allowed him to pass , emerged from the garden , and said I will go . 
He set out at rapid pace . 
He found himself most opportunely armed , as he had Javert's pistols with him . 
The young man of whom he thought that he had caught a glimpse , had vanished from his sight in the street . 
Marius , who had emerged from the Rue Plumet by the boulevard , traversed the Esplanade and the bridge of the Invalides , the Champs Elysees , the Place Louis XV . 
, and reached the Rue de Rivoli . 
Only a few posting chaises were setting out at a gallop from the Hotel des Princes and the Hotel Meurice . 
Marius entered the Rue Saint Honore through the Passage Delorme . 
There was cavalry on the Place du Palais Royal . 
Marius followed the Rue Saint Honore . 
For the passers by now amounted to a crowd . 
No one could be seen to speak in this throng , and yet there arose from it a dull , deep murmur . 
Near the fountain of the Arbre Sec , there were assemblages , motionless and gloomy groups which were to those who went and came as stones in the midst of running water . 
At the entrance to the Rue des Prouvaires , the crowd no longer walked . 
It formed a resisting , massive , solid , compact , almost impenetrable block of people who were huddled together , and conversing in low tones . 
There were hardly any black coats or round hats now , but smock frocks , blouses , caps , and bristling and cadaverous heads . 
This multitude undulated confusedly in the nocturnal gloom . 
Its whisperings had the hoarse accent of a vibration . 
Although not one of them was walking , a dull trampling was audible in the mire . 
Only the solitary and diminishing rows of lanterns could be seen vanishing into the street in the distance . 
The lanterns of that date resembled large red stars , hanging to ropes , and shed upon the pavement a shadow which had the form of a huge spider . 
These streets were not deserted . 
There could be descried piles of guns , moving bayonets , and troops bivouacking . 
No curious observer passed that limit . 
There the rabble ended and the army began . 
Marius willed with the will of a man who hopes no more . 
He had been summoned , he must go . 
He found a means to traverse the throng and to pass the bivouac of the troops , he shunned the patrols , he avoided the sentinels . 
He made a circuit , reached the Rue de Bethisy , and directed his course towards the Halles . 
At the corner of the Rue des Bourdonnais , there were no longer any lanterns . 
After having passed the zone of the crowd , he had passed the limits of the troops he found himself in something startling . 
Entering a street was like entering a cellar . 
He took a few steps . 
Some one passed close to him at a run . 
Was it a man ? Or a woman ? Were there many of them ? he could not have told . 
It had passed and vanished . 
It was an overturned wagon his foot recognized pools of water , gullies , and paving stones scattered and piled up . 
A barricade had been begun there and abandoned . 
He climbed over the stones and found himself on the other side of the barrier . 
He walked very near the street posts , and guided himself along the walls of the houses . 
A little beyond the barricade , it seemed to him that he could make out something white in front of him . 
He approached , it took on a form . 
Marius left the horses behind him . 
This pierced shaving dish was still to be seen in , in the Rue du Contrat Social , at the corner of the pillars of the market . 
This shot still betokened life . 
From that instant forth he encountered nothing more . 
The whole of this itinerary resembled a descent of black steps . 
Nevertheless , Marius pressed forward . 
There the glance fell into an abyss . 
Thanks to the broken lanterns , thanks to the closed windows , there all radiance , all life , all sound , all movement ceased . 
The invisible police of the insurrection were on the watch everywhere , and maintained order , that is to say , night . 
The necessary tactics of insurrection are to drown small numbers in a vast obscurity , to multiply every combatant by the possibilities which that obscurity contains . 
At dusk , every window where a candle was burning received a shot . 
The light was extinguished , sometimes the inhabitant was killed . 
There was nothing but fright , mourning , stupor in the houses and in the streets , a sort of sacred horror . 
Invisible combatants were entrenched at every corner of the street snares of the sepulchre concealed in the density of night . 
No more light was to be hoped for , henceforth , except the lightning of guns , no further encounter except the abrupt and rapid apparition of death . 
Where ? How ? When ? No one knew , but it was certain and inevitable . 
The necessity was the same for both . 
The only possible issue thenceforth was to emerge thence killed or conquerors . 
A situation so extreme , an obscurity so powerful , that the most timid felt themselves seized with resolution , and the most daring with terror . 
Moreover , on both sides , the fury , the rage , and the determination were equal . 
For the one party , to advance meant death , and no one dreamed of retreating for the other , to remain meant death , and no one dreamed of flight . 
It was indispensable that all should be ended on the following day , that triumph should rest either here or there , that the insurrection should prove itself a revolution or a skirmish . 
The Government understood this as well as the parties the most insignificant bourgeois felt it . 
Here only one sound was audible , a sound as heart rending as the death rattle , as menacing as a malediction , the tocsin of Saint Merry . 
Nothing could be more blood curdling than the clamor of that wild and desperate bell , wailing amid the shadows . 
As it often happens , nature seemed to have fallen into accord with what men were about to do . 
Nothing disturbed the harmony of the whole effect . 
The stars had disappeared , heavy clouds filled the horizon with their melancholy folds . 
A black sky rested on these dead streets , as though an immense winding sheet were being outspread over this immense tomb . 
CHAPTER III THE EXTREME EDGE Marius had reached the Halles . 
There everything was still calmer , more obscure and more motionless than in the neighboring streets . 
One would have said that the glacial peace of the sepulchre had sprung forth from the earth and had spread over the heavens . 
Nevertheless , a red glow brought out against this black background the lofty roofs of the houses which barred the Rue de la Chanvrerie on the Saint Eustache side . 
It was the reflection of the torch which was burning in the Corinthe barricade . 
Marius directed his steps towards that red light . 
It had drawn him to the Marche aux Poirees , and he caught a glimpse of the dark mouth of the Rue des Precheurs . 
The insurgents' sentinel , who was guarding the other end , did not see him . 
He felt that he was very close to that which he had come in search of , and he walked on tiptoe . 
At the corner of the last house , on his left , he thrust his head forward , and looked into the fragment of the Rue Mondetour . 
All this was ten fathoms distant from him . 
It was the interior of the barricade . 
The houses which bordered the lane on the right concealed the rest of the wine shop , the large barricade , and the flag from him . 
Marius had but a step more to take . 
Then the unhappy young man seated himself on a post , folded his arms , and fell to thinking about his father . 
He thought of his father's sword , which his grandfather had sold to a second hand dealer , and which he had so mournfully regretted . 
And then he fell to weeping bitterly . 
But what was he to do ? Live without Cosette he could not . 
Since she was gone , he must needs die . 
Had he not given her his word of honor that he would die ? She had gone knowing that this meant that it pleased her that Marius should die . 
All at once he raised it . 
A sort of splendid rectification had just been effected in his mind . 
There is a widening of the sphere of thought which is peculiar to the vicinity of the grave it makes one see clearly to be near death . 
The vision of the action into which he felt that he was , perhaps , on the point of entering , appeared to him no more as lamentable , but as superb . 
The war of the street was suddenly transfigured by some unfathomable inward working of his soul , before the eye of his thought . 
All the tumultuous interrogation points of revery recurred to him in throngs , but without troubling him . 
He left none of them unanswered . 
The question is no longer one of sacred territory , but of a holy idea . 
The country wails , that may be , but humanity applauds . 
But is it true that the country does wail ? France bleeds , but liberty smiles and in the presence of liberty's smile , France forgets her wound . 
There is no such thing as foreign or civil war there is only just and unjust war . 
Then war , whether foreign or civil , is iniquitous it is called crime . 
But Ambiorix fought against Rome , Artevelde against France , Marnix against Spain , Pelagius against the Moors all against the foreigner . 
Well , the monarchy is a foreigner oppression is a stranger the right divine is a stranger . 
Despotism violates the moral frontier , an invasion violates the geographical frontier . 
Driving out the tyrant or driving out the English , in both cases , regaining possession of one's own territory . 
After AEschylus , Thrasybulus after Diderot , Danton . 
Multitudes have a tendency to accept the master . 
Their mass bears witness to apathy . 
A crowd is easily led as a whole to obedience . 
They must be a little thunderstruck themselves at their own well being this dazzling awakens them . 
Hence the necessity of tocsins and wars . 
Down with the tyrant ! Of whom are you speaking ? Do you call Louis Philippe the tyrant ? No no more than Louis XVI . 
There is a divine right in Louis XVI . 
When the master falls in France , he falls everywhere . 
It must be cast down . 
This monstrous mass must be made to crumble . 
To conquer at Austerlitz is grand to take the Bastille is immense . 
Logic is mingled with convulsion , and the thread of the syllogism floats , without breaking , in the mournful storm of thought . 
This was the situation of Marius' mind . 
The insurgents were here conversing in a low voice , without moving , and there was perceptible that quasi silence which marks the last stage of expectation . 
Overhead , at the small window in the third story Marius descried a sort of spectator who appeared to him to be singularly attentive . 
This was the porter who had been killed by Le Cabuc . 
Below , by the lights of the torch , which was thrust between the paving stones , this head could be vaguely distinguished . 
One would have said that the man who was dead was surveying those who were about to die . 
A long trail of blood which had flowed from that head , descended in reddish threads from the window to the height of the first floor , where it stopped . 
THE GRANDEURS OF DESPAIR CHAPTER I THE FLAG ACT FIRST As yet , nothing had come . 
Ten o'clock had sounded from Saint Merry . 
Enjolras and Combeferre had gone and seated themselves , carbines in hand , near the outlet of the grand barricade . 
They no longer addressed each other , they listened , seeking to catch even the faintest and most distant sound of marching . 
With a blue capote and a chicken in his shako , here's the banlieue , co cocorico . 
They pressed each other's hands . 
That is Gavroche , said Enjolras . 
He is warning us , said Combeferre . 
Would you like my carbine ? said Enjolras to the lad . 
I want a big gun , replied Gavroche . 
And he seized Javert's gun . 
Two sentinels had fallen back , and had come in almost at the same moment as Gavroche . 
They were the sentinels from the end of the street , and the vidette of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie . 
The vidette of the Lane des Precheurs had remained at his post , which indicated that nothing was approaching from the direction of the bridges and Halles . 
Each man had taken up his position for the conflict . 
Six , commanded by Feuilly , had installed themselves , with their guns levelled at their shoulders , at the windows of the two stories of Corinthe . 
Several minutes passed thus , then a sound of footsteps , measured , heavy , and numerous , became distinctly audible in the direction of Saint Leu . 
This sound , faint at first , then precise , then heavy and sonorous , approached slowly , without halt , without intermission , with a tranquil and terrible continuity . 
Nothing was to be heard but this . 
One thought one heard the terrible statue Legion marching onward . 
This tread drew near it drew still nearer , and stopped . 
It seemed as though the breathing of many men could be heard at the end of the street . 
These were bayonets and gun barrels confusedly illuminated by the distant reflection of the torch . 
A pause ensued , as though both sides were waiting . 
Enjolras replied in a haughty and vibrating tone The French Revolution ! Fire ! shouted the voice . 
A flash empurpled all the facades in the street as though the door of a furnace had been flung open , and hastily closed again . 
A fearful detonation burst forth on the barricade . 
The discharge had been so violent and so dense that it had cut the staff , that is to say , the very tip of the omnibus pole . 
Bullets which had rebounded from the cornices of the houses penetrated the barricade and wounded several men . 
The impression produced by this first discharge was freezing . 
The attack had been rough , and of a nature to inspire reflection in the boldest . 
It was evident that they had to deal with an entire regiment at the very least . 
Comrades ! shouted Courfeyrac , let us not waste our powder . 
Let us wait until they are in the street before replying . 
And , above all , said Enjolras , let us raise the flag again . 
He picked up the flag , which had fallen precisely at his feet . 
Outside , the clatter of the ramrods in the guns could be heard the troops were re loading their arms . 
Enjolras went on Who is there here with a bold heart ? Who will plant the flag on the barricade again ? Not a man responded . 
To mount on the barricade at the very moment when , without any doubt , it was again the object of their aim , was simply death . 
The bravest hesitated to pronounce his own condemnation . 
Enjolras himself felt a thrill . 
M. Mabeuf had not quitted the mob , however he had entered the ground floor of the wine shop and had seated himself behind the counter . 
There he had , so to speak , retreated into himself . 
He no longer seemed to look or to think . 
Courfeyrac and others had accosted him two or three times , warning him of his peril , beseeching him to withdraw , but he did not hear them . 
Nothing had been able to move him from this attitude it did not seem as though his mind were in the barricade . 
His presence produced a sort of commotion in the different groups . 
There ensued one of those silences which occur only in the presence of prodigies . 
It was probably the commissary of police who was making the legal summons at the other end of the street . 
A second discharge , similar to the first , rained down upon the barricade . 
The old man fell on his knees , then rose again , dropped the flag and fell backwards on the pavement , like a log , at full length , with outstretched arms . 
Rivulets of blood flowed beneath him . 
His aged head , pale and sad , seemed to be gazing at the sky . 
One of those emotions which are superior to man , which make him forget even to defend himself , seized upon the insurgents , and they approached the body with respectful awe . 
What men these regicides were ! said Enjolras . 
Courfeyrac bent down to Enjolras' ear This is for yourself alone , I do not wish to dampen the enthusiasm . 
But this man was anything rather than a regicide . 
His name was Father Mabeuf . 
I do not know what was the matter with him to day . 
But he was a brave blockhead . 
Just look at his head . 
The head of a blockhead and the heart of a Brutus , replied Enjolras . 
Then he raised his voice Citizens ! This is the example which the old give to the young . 
CHAPTER III GAVROCHE WOULD HAVE DONE BETTER TO ACCEPT ENJOLRAS' CARBINE They threw a long black shawl of Widow Hucheloup's over Father Mabeuf . 
These men , wholly absorbed in the grave and sacred task in which they were engaged , thought no more of the perilous situation in which they stood . 
All at once he shouted Look out ! Courfeyrac , Enjolras , Jean Prouvaire , Combeferre , Joly , Bahorel , Bossuet , and all the rest ran tumultuously from the wine shop . 
It was almost too late . 
They saw a glistening density of bayonets undulating above the barricade . 
It was that first , redoubtable moment of inundation , when the stream rises to the level of the levee and when the water begins to filter through the fissures of dike . 
A second more and the barricade would have been taken . 
Bahorel dashed upon the first municipal guard who was entering , and killed him on the spot with a blow from his gun the second killed Bahorel with a blow from his bayonet . 
Another had already overthrown Courfeyrac , who was shouting Follow me ! The largest of all , a sort of colossus , marched on Gavroche with his bayonet fixed . 
The urchin took in his arms Javert's immense gun , levelled it resolutely at the giant , and fired . 
Javert's gun was not loaded . 
The municipal guard burst into a laugh and raised his bayonet at the child . 
A second bullet struck the other guard , who had assaulted Courfeyrac in the breast , and laid him low on the pavement . 
This was the work of Marius , who had just entered the barricade . 
CHAPTER IV THE BARREL OF POWDER Marius , still concealed in the turn of the Rue Mondetour , had witnessed , shuddering and irresolute , the first phase of the combat . 
But he had not long been able to resist that mysterious and sovereign vertigo which may be designated as the call of the abyss . 
With his first shot he had saved Gavroche , and with the second delivered Courfeyrac . 
They already covered more than two thirds of the barrier , but they did not leap into the enclosure , as though wavering in the fear of some trap . 
They gazed into the dark barricade as one would gaze into a lion's den . 
The light of the torch illuminated only their bayonets , their bear skin caps , and the upper part of their uneasy and angry faces . 
As he turned half round , gazing in that direction , a soldier took aim at him . 
At the moment when the soldier was sighting Marius , a hand was laid on the muzzle of the gun and obstructed it . 
This was done by some one who had darted forward , the young workman in velvet trousers . 
The shot sped , traversed the hand and possibly , also , the workman , since he fell , but the ball did not strike Marius . 
All this , which was rather to be apprehended than seen through the smoke , Marius , who was entering the tap room , hardly noticed . 
Still , he had , in a confused way , perceived that gun barrel aimed at him , and the hand which had blocked it , and he had heard the discharge . 
But in moments like this , the things which one sees vacillate and are precipitated , and one pauses for nothing . 
One feels obscurely impelled towards more darkness still , and all is cloud . 
The insurgents , surprised but not terrified , had rallied . 
Enjolras had shouted Wait ! Don't fire at random ! In the first confusion , they might , in fact , wound each other . 
The majority of them had ascended to the window on the first story and to the attic windows , whence they commanded the assailants . 
All this was accomplished without haste , with that strange and threatening gravity which precedes engagements . 
They took aim , point blank , on both sides they were so close that they could talk together without raising their voices . 
The two discharges took place at the same moment , and all disappeared in smoke . 
An acrid and stifling smoke in which dying and wounded lay with weak , dull groans . 
When the smoke cleared away , the combatants on both sides could be seen to be thinned out , but still in the same positions , reloading in silence . 
All at once , a thundering voice was heard , shouting Be off with you , or I'll blow up the barricade ! All turned in the direction whence the voice proceeded . 
Blow up the barricade ! said a sergeant , and yourself with it ! Marius retorted And myself also . 
And he dropped the torch towards the barrel of powder . 
But there was no longer any one on the barrier . 
The assailants , abandoning their dead and wounded , flowed back pell mell and in disorder towards the extremity of the street , and there were again lost in the night . 
It was a headlong flight . 
CHAPTER V END OF THE VERSES OF JEAN PROUVAIRE All flocked around Marius . 
Courfeyrac flung himself on his neck . 
Here you are ! What luck ! said Combeferre . 
You came in opportunely ! ejaculated Bossuet . 
If it had not been for you , I should have been dead ! began Courfeyrac again . 
If it had not been for you , I should have been gobbled up ! added Gavroche . 
Marius asked Where is the chief ? You are he ! said Enjolras . 
Marius had had a furnace in his brain all day long now it was a whirlwind . 
This whirlwind which was within him , produced on him the effect of being outside of him and of bearing him away . 
It seemed to him that he was already at an immense distance from life . 
He was obliged to make a mental effort to recall the fact that all that surrounded him was real . 
Marius had already seen too much of life not to know that nothing is more imminent than the impossible , and that what it is always necessary to foresee is the unforeseen . 
He had looked on at his own drama as a piece which one does not understand . 
Marius had not even seen him . 
The insurgents had posted sentinels , and some of them , who were medical students , set about caring for the wounded . 
On these mattresses they had laid the wounded . 
As for the three poor creatures who inhabited Corinthe , no one knew what had become of them . 
They were finally found , however , hidden in the cellar . 
A poignant emotion clouded the joy of the disencumbered barricade . 
One of the insurgents was missing . 
And who was it ? One of the dearest . 
One of the most valiant . 
He was sought among the wounded , he was not there . 
He was sought among the dead , he was not there . 
He was evidently a prisoner . 
Combeferre said to Enjolras They have our friend we have their agent . 
Are you set on the death of that spy ? Yes , replied Enjolras but less so than on the life of Jean Prouvaire . 
This took place in the tap room near Javert's post . 
Well , resumed Combeferre , I am going to fasten my handkerchief to my cane , and go as a flag of truce , to offer to exchange our man for theirs . 
Listen , said Enjolras , laying his hand on Combeferre's arm . 
At the end of the street there was a significant clash of arms . 
They heard a manly voice shout Vive la France ! Long live France ! Long live the future ! They recognized the voice of Prouvaire . 
A flash passed , a report rang out . 
They have killed him , exclaimed Combeferre . 
Enjolras glanced at Javert , and said to him Your friends have just shot you . 
The insurgents' whole attention had been directed , therefore , to the grand barricade , which was , evidently , the spot always menaced , and there the struggle would infallibly recommence . 
But Marius thought of the little barricade , and went thither . 
It was deserted and guarded only by the fire pot which trembled between the paving stones . 
Moreover , the Mondetour alley , and the branches of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie and the Rue du Cygne were profoundly calm . 
As Marius was withdrawing , after concluding his inspection , he heard his name pronounced feebly in the darkness . 
Monsieur Marius ! He started , for he recognized the voice which had called to him two hours before through the gate in the Rue Plumet . 
Only , the voice now seemed to be nothing more than a breath . 
He looked about him , but saw no one . 
Marius thought he had been mistaken , that it was an illusion added by his mind to the extraordinary realities which were clashing around him . 
He advanced a step , in order to quit the distant recess where the barricade lay . 
Monsieur Marius ! repeated the voice . 
This time he could not doubt that he had heard it distinctly he looked and saw nothing . 
At your feet , said the voice . 
He bent down , and saw in the darkness a form which was dragging itself towards him . 
It was crawling along the pavement . 
It was this that had spoken to him . 
The fire pot allowed him to distinguish a blouse , torn trousers of coarse velvet , bare feet , and something which resembled a pool of blood . 
Marius indistinctly made out a pale head which was lifted towards him and which was saying to him You do not recognize me ? No. Eponine . 
It was , in fact , that unhappy child . 
She was dressed in men's clothes . 
How come you here ? What are you doing here ? I am dying , said she . 
There are words and incidents which arouse dejected beings . 
Marius cried out with a start You are wounded ! Wait , I will carry you into the room ! They will attend to you there . 
She uttered a feeble cry . 
Have I hurt you ? asked Marius . 
But I only touched your hand . 
She raised her hand to Marius , and in the middle of that hand Marius saw a black hole . 
What is the matter with your hand ? said he . 
What with ? A bullet . 
How ? Did you see a gun aimed at you ? Yes , and a hand stopping it . 
Marius was seized with a shudder . 
What madness ! Poor child ! But so much the better , if that is all , it is nothing , let me carry you to a bed . 
They will dress your wound one does not die of a pierced hand . 
She murmured The bullet traversed my hand , but it came out through my back . 
It is useless to remove me from this spot . 
I will tell you how you can care for me better than any surgeon . 
Sit down near me on this stone . 
She remained silent for a moment , then she turned her face with an effort , and looked at Marius . 
It was I who led you here , by the way ! You are going to die , I count upon that . 
And yet , when I saw them taking aim at you , I put my hand on the muzzle of the gun . 
How queer it is ! But it was because I wanted to die before you . 
I bit my blouse , I suffered so ! Now I am well . 
You gave me a hundred sous , and I said to you I don't want your money . 
I hope you picked up your coin ? You are not rich . 
I did not think to tell you to pick it up . 
The sun was shining bright , and it was not cold . 
Do you remember , Monsieur Marius ? Oh ! How happy I am ! Every one is going to die . 
She had a mad , grave , and heart breaking air . 
Her torn blouse disclosed her bare throat . 
Marius gazed at this unfortunate creature with profound compassion . 
Oh ! she resumed , it is coming again , I am stifling ! She caught up her blouse and bit it , and her limbs stiffened on the pavement . 
At that moment the young cock's crow executed by little Gavroche resounded through the barricade . 
And turning to Marius My brother is here . 
He must not see me . 
The one who is singing ? Yes . 
Oh ! don't go away , said she , it will not be long now . 
She was sitting almost upright , but her voice was very low and broken by hiccoughs . 
At intervals , the death rattle interrupted her . 
She put her face as near that of Marius as possible . 
She added with a strange expression Listen , I do not wish to play you a trick . 
I have a letter in my pocket for you . 
I was told to put it in the post . 
I did not want to have it reach you . 
But perhaps you will be angry with me for it when we meet again presently ? Take your letter . 
She grasped Marius' hand convulsively with her pierced hand , but she no longer seemed to feel her sufferings . 
She put Marius' hand in the pocket of her blouse . 
There , in fact , Marius felt a paper . 
Take it , said she . 
She made a sign of satisfaction and contentment . 
Now , for my trouble , promise me And she stopped . 
Promise me ! I promise . 
Promise to give me a kiss on my brow when I am dead . 
She dropped her head again on Marius' knees , and her eyelids closed . 
He thought the poor soul had departed . 
She tried to smile once more and expired . 
CHAPTER VII GAVROCHE AS A PROFOUND CALCULATOR OF DISTANCES Marius kept his promise . 
He dropped a kiss on that livid brow , where the icy perspiration stood in beads . 
This was no infidelity to Cosette it was a gentle and pensive farewell to an unhappy soul . 
It was not without a tremor that he had taken the letter which Eponine had given him . 
He had immediately felt that it was an event of weight . 
He was impatient to read it . 
The heart of man is so constituted that the unhappy child had hardly closed her eyes when Marius began to think of unfolding this paper . 
He laid her gently on the ground , and went away . 
Something told him that he could not peruse that letter in the presence of that body . 
He drew near to a candle in the tap room . 
It was a small note , folded and sealed with a woman's elegant care . 
The address was in a woman's hand and ran To Monsieur , Monsieur Marius Pontmercy , at M. Courfeyrac's , Rue de la Verrerie , No. . 
He broke the seal and read My dearest , alas ! my father insists on our setting out immediately . 
We shall be this evening in the Rue de l'Homme Arme , No. . 
In a week we shall be in England . 
Such was the innocence of their love that Marius was not even acquainted with Cosette's handwriting . 
What had taken place may be related in a few words . 
Eponine had been the cause of everything . 
She had exchanged rags with the first young scamp she came across who had thought it amusing to dress like a woman , while Eponine disguised herself like a man . 
It was she who had conveyed to Jean Valjean in the Champ de Mars the expressive warning Leave your house . 
Jean Valjean had , in fact , returned home , and had said to Cosette We set out this evening and we go to the Rue de l'Homme Arme with Toussaint . 
Next week , we shall be in London . 
Cosette , utterly overwhelmed by this unexpected blow , had hastily penned a couple of lines to Marius . 
In this dilemma , Cosette had caught sight through the fence of Eponine in man's clothes , who now prowled incessantly around the garden . 
Cosette had called to this young workman and had handed him five francs and the letter , saying Carry this letter immediately to its address . 
Eponine had put the letter in her pocket . 
There she had waited for Marius , or at least for Courfeyrac , still for the purpose of seeing . 
She reckoned on Marius' despair when he should fail to find Cosette she was not mistaken . 
She had returned to the Rue de la Chanvrerie herself . 
What she did there the reader has just seen . 
So she loved him ! For one moment the idea occurred to him that he ought not to die now . 
Then he said to himself She is going away . 
Her father is taking her to England , and my grandfather refuses his consent to the marriage . 
Nothing is changed in our fates . 
Dreamers like Marius are subject to supreme attacks of dejection , and desperate resolves are the result . 
The fatigue of living is insupportable death is sooner over with . 
He had a pocket book about him the same one which had contained the note book in which he had inscribed so many thoughts of love for Cosette . 
He tore out a leaf and wrote on it a few lines in pencil Our marriage was impossible . 
I asked my grandfather , he refused I have no fortune , neither hast thou . 
I hastened to thee , thou wert no longer there . 
Thou knowest the promise that I gave thee , I shall keep it . 
When thou readest this , my soul will be near thee , and thou wilt smile . 
Carry my body to my grandfather , M. Gillenormand , Rue des Filles du Calvaire , No. , in the Marais . 
He put his pocketbook back in his pocket , then he called Gavroche . 
The gamin , at the sound of Marius' voice , ran up to him with his merry and devoted air . 
Will you do something for me ? Anything , said Gavroche . 
Good God ! if it had not been for you , I should have been done for . 
Do you see this letter ? Yes . 
and to morrow morning , you will deliver it at its address to Mademoiselle Cosette , at M. Fauchelevent's , Rue de l'Homme Arme , No. . 
The heroic child replied Well , but ! in the meanwhile the barricade will be taken , and I shall not be there . 
The barricade will not be attacked until daybreak , according to all appearances , and will not be taken before to morrow noon . 
The fresh respite which the assailants were granting to the barricade had , in fact , been prolonged . 
It was one of those intermissions which frequently occur in nocturnal combats , which are always followed by an increase of rage . 
Well , said Gavroche , what if I were to go and carry your letter to morrow ? It will be too late . 
The barricade will probably be blockaded , all the streets will be guarded , and you will not be able to get out . 
Gavroche could think of no reply to this , and stood there in indecision , scratching his ear sadly . 
All at once , he took the letter with one of those birdlike movements which were common with him . 
All right , said he . 
And he started off at a run through Mondetour lane . 
An idea had occurred to Gavroche which had brought him to a decision , but he had not mentioned it for fear that Marius might offer some objection to it . 
Jean Valjean at that very moment was the prey of a terrible upheaval . 
Every sort of gulf had opened again within him . 
He also was trembling , like Paris , on the brink of an obscure and formidable revolution . 
A few hours had sufficed to bring this about . 
His destiny and his conscience had suddenly been covered with gloom . 
Of him also , as well as of Paris , it might have been said Two principles are face to face . 
The white angel and the black angel are about to seize each other on the bridge of the abyss . 
A change awaited him there . 
Cosette had not quitted the Rue Plumet without making an effort at resistance . 
There had been objections on one side and inflexibility on the other . 
The abrupt advice Leave your house , hurled at Jean Valjean by a stranger , had alarmed him to the extent of rendering him peremptory . 
He thought that he had been traced and followed . 
Cosette had been obliged to give way . 
Jean Valjean had taken Toussaint with him , a thing which he had never done in his previous absences . 
He perceived the possibility of not returning to the Rue Plumet , and he could neither leave Toussaint behind nor confide his secret to her . 
Besides , he felt that she was devoted and trustworthy . 
Treachery between master and servant begins in curiosity . 
Now Toussaint , as though she had been destined to be Jean Valjean's servant , was not curious . 
She stammered in her peasant dialect of Barneville I am made so I do my work the rest is no affair of mine . 
In this departure from the Rue Plumet , which had been almost a flight , Jean Valjean had carried away nothing but the little embalmed valise , baptized by Cosette the inseparable . 
Full trunks would have required porters , and porters are witnesses . 
A fiacre had been summoned to the door on the Rue de Babylone , and they had taken their departure . 
It was with difficulty that Toussaint had obtained permission to pack up a little linen and clothes and a few toilet articles . 
Cosette had taken only her portfolio and her blotting book . 
They had arrived in the Rue de l'Homme Arme after night had fully fallen . 
They had gone to bed in silence . 
The dining room was an antechamber as well , and separated the two bedrooms . 
The apartment was provided with all necessary utensils . 
People re acquire confidence as foolishly as they lose it human nature is so constituted . 
Hardly had Jean Valjean reached the Rue de l'Homme Arme when his anxiety was lightened and by degrees dissipated . 
There are soothing spots which act in some sort mechanically on the mind . 
An obscure street , peaceable inhabitants . 
There was a touch of stagnant oblivion in that street . 
Jean Valjean drew his breath once more there . 
How could he be found there ? His first care was to place the inseparable beside him . 
Night brings wisdom we may add , night soothes . 
On the following morning he awoke in a mood that was almost gay . 
In one of these packages Jean Valjean's uniform of a National Guard was visible through a rent . 
As for Cosette , she had had Toussaint take some broth to her room , and did not make her appearance until evening . 
That done , Cosette , under the pretext of an obstinate sick headache , had bade Jean Valjean good night and had shut herself up in her chamber . 
But absorbed in a throng of inward calculations , he had paid no heed to it . 
To tell the truth , he had not heard her . 
He rose and began to pace from the door to the window and from the window to the door , growing ever more serene . 
With this calm , Cosette , his sole anxiety , recurred to his thoughts . 
After all , he saw no obstacle to their happy life resuming its course . 
At certain hours , everything seems impossible , at others everything appears easy Jean Valjean was in the midst of one of these good hours . 
In this peaceful street where he had taken refuge , Jean Valjean got rid of all that had been troubling him for some time past . 
This very fact , that he had seen many shadows , made him begin to perceive a little azure . 
To have quitted the Rue Plumet without complications or incidents was one good step already accomplished . 
Perhaps it would be wise to go abroad , if only for a few months , and to set out for London . 
Well , they would go . 
What difference did it make to him whether he was in France or in England , provided he had Cosette beside him ? Cosette was his nation . 
He was in a state of collapse from all his past sufferings , and he was fully entered on optimism . 
Cosette was by his side , she seemed to be his an optical illusion which every one has experienced . 
As he paced to and fro with long strides , his glance suddenly encountered something strange . 
In the inclined mirror facing him which surmounted the sideboard , he saw the four lines which follow My dearest , alas ! my father insists on our setting out immediately . 
We shall be this evening in the Rue de l'Homme Arme , No. . 
In a week we shall be in England . 
Jean Valjean halted , perfectly haggard . 
The writing had been printed off on the blotter . 
The mirror reflected the writing . 
It was simple and withering . 
Jean Valjean stepped up to the mirror . 
He read the four lines again , but he did not believe them . 
They produced on him the effect of appearing in a flash of lightning . 
It was a hallucination , it was impossible . 
Little by little , his perceptions became more precise he looked at Cosette's blotting book , and the consciousness of the reality returned to him . 
He caught up the blotter and said It comes from there . 
He feverishly examined the four lines imprinted on the blotter , the reversal of the letters converted into an odd scrawl , and he saw no sense in it . 
Then he said to himself But this signifies nothing there is nothing written here . 
And he drew a long breath with inexpressible relief . 
Who has not experienced those foolish joys in horrible instants ? The soul does not surrender to despair until it has exhausted all illusions . 
He held the blotter in his hand and contemplated it in stupid delight , almost ready to laugh at the hallucination of which he had been the dupe . 
All at once his eyes fell upon the mirror again , and again he beheld the vision . 
There were the four lines outlined with inexorable clearness . 
This time it was no mirage . 
The recurrence of a vision is a reality it was palpable , it was the writing restored in the mirror . 
Jean Valjean tottered , dropped the blotter , and fell into the old arm chair beside the buffet , with drooping head , and glassy eyes , in utter bewilderment . 
He told himself that it was plain , that the light of the world had been eclipsed forever , and that Cosette had written that to some one . 
Then he heard his soul , which had become terrible once more , give vent to a dull roar in the gloom . 
Up to that day , Jean Valjean had not been vanquished by trial . 
His conscience inured to every assault of destiny , might have appeared to be forever impregnable . 
Well , any one who had beheld his spiritual self would have been obliged to concede that it weakened at that moment . 
It was because , of all the tortures which he had undergone in the course of this long inquisition to which destiny had doomed him , this was the most terrible . 
Never had such pincers seized him hitherto . 
He felt the mysterious stirring of all his latent sensibilities . 
He felt the plucking at the strange chord . 
Alas ! the supreme trial , let us say rather , the only trial , is the loss of the beloved being . 
Let the reader recall the situation of heart which we have already indicated . 
No marriage was possible between them not even that of souls and yet , it is certain that their destinies were wedded . 
He felt , even in the very roots of his hair , the immense reawakening of egotism , and the I in this man's abyss howled . 
There is such a thing as the sudden giving way of the inward subsoil . 
A despairing certainty does not make its way into a man without thrusting aside and breaking certain profound elements which , in some cases , are the very man himself . 
Grief , when it attains this shape , is a headlong flight of all the forces of the conscience . 
Few among us emerge from them still like ourselves and firm in duty . 
When the limit of endurance is overstepped , the most imperturbable virtue is disconcerted . 
The unprecedented and heart rending thing about it was that he had fallen without perceiving it . 
All the light of his life had departed , while he still fancied that he beheld the sun . 
His instinct did not hesitate . 
He put together certain circumstances , certain dates , certain blushes and certain pallors on Cosette's part , and he said to himself It is he . 
The divination of despair is a sort of mysterious bow which never misses its aim . 
He struck Marius with his first conjecture . 
He did not know the name , but he found the man instantly . 
Great griefs contain something of dejection . 
They discourage one with existence . 
The man into whom they enter feels something within him withdraw from him . 
In his youth , their visits are lugubrious later on they are sinister . 
It is in the direction of Saint Merry . 
There is a mechanical movement which comes to us , unconsciously , from the most profound depths of our thought . 
Bareheaded , he sat upon the stone post at the door of his house . 
He seemed to be listening . 
A few uneasy bourgeois , who were rapidly returning home , hardly saw him . 
Each one for himself in times of peril . 
The lamp lighter came as usual to light the lantern which was situated precisely opposite the door of No. , and then went away . 
Jean Valjean would not have appeared like a living man to any one who had examined him in that shadow . 
He sat there on the post of his door , motionless as a form of ice . 
There is congealment in despair . 
The alarm bells and a vague and stormy uproar were audible . 
The passage of the hour produced no effect on Jean Valjean Jean Valjean did not stir . 
He resumed his gloomy dialogue with himself . 
All at once , he raised his eyes some one was walking in the street , he heard steps near him . 
Gavroche had just arrived in the Rue l'Homme Arme . 
Gavroche was staring into the air , apparently in search of something . 
He saw Jean Valjean perfectly well but he took no notice of him . 
What is the matter with you , my little fellow ? he said . 
The matter with me is that I am hungry , replied Gavroche frankly . 
And he added Little fellow yourself . 
Jean Valjean fumbled in his fob and pulled out a five franc piece . 
But Gavroche , who was of the wagtail species , and who skipped vivaciously from one gesture to another , had just picked up a stone . 
He had caught sight of the lantern . 
See here , said he , you still have your lanterns here . 
You are disobeying the regulations , my friend . 
The lantern oscillated violently , and went out . 
The street had suddenly become black . 
That's right , old street , ejaculated Gavroche , put on your night cap . 
Jean Valjean stepped up to Gavroche . 
Poor creature , he said in a low tone , and speaking to himself , he is hungry . 
And he laid the hundred sou piece in his hand . 
Gavroche raised his face , astonished at the size of this sou he stared at it in the darkness , and the whiteness of the big sou dazzled him . 
He knew five franc pieces by hearsay their reputation was agreeable to him he was delighted to see one close to . 
He said Let us contemplate the tiger . 
Take back your ferocious beast . 
That has got five claws but it doesn't scratch me . 
Have you a mother ? asked Jean Valjean . 
Gavroche replied More than you have , perhaps . 
Well , returned Jean Valjean , keep the money for your mother ! Gavroche was touched . 
Moreover , he had just noticed that the man who was addressing him had no hat , and this inspired him with confidence . 
Truly , said he , so it wasn't to keep me from breaking the lanterns ? Break whatever you please . 
You're a fine man , said Gavroche . 
And he put the five franc piece into one of his pockets . 
An idea flashed through Jean Valjean's mind . 
Anguish does have these gleams . 
He said to the lad Are you the person who is bringing a letter that I am expecting ? You ? said Gavroche . 
You are not a woman . 
The letter is for Mademoiselle Cosette , is it not ? Cosette , muttered Gavroche . 
Yes , I believe that is the queer name . 
Well , resumed Jean Valjean , I am the person to whom you are to deliver the letter . 
In that case , you must know that I was sent from the barricade . 
Of course , said Jean Valjean . 
Gavroche engulfed his hand in another of his pockets and drew out a paper folded in four . 
Then he made the military salute . 
Respect for despatches , said he . 
It comes from the Provisional Government . 
Give it to me , said Jean Valjean . 
Gavroche held the paper elevated above his head . 
Don't go and fancy it's a love letter . 
It is for a woman , but it's for the people . 
We men fight and we respect the fair sex . 
We are not as they are in fine society , where there are lions who send chickens to camels . 
After all , continued Gavroche , you have the air of an honest man . 
Give it to me quick . 
And he handed the paper to Jean Valjean . 
And make haste , Monsieur What's your name , for Mamselle Cosette is waiting . 
Gavroche was satisfied with himself for having produced this remark . 
Jean Valjean began again Is it to Saint Merry that the answer is to be sent ? There you are making some of those bits of pastry vulgarly called brioches blunders . 
This letter comes from the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie , and I'm going back there . 
It was Gavroche upon his way through the Rue du Chaume . 
CHAPTER III WHILE COSETTE AND TOUSSAINT ARE ASLEEP Jean Valjean went into the house with Marius' letter . 
What he had just done smacked of theft . 
At last the candle was lighted he leaned his elbows on the table , unfolded the paper , and read . 
In Marius' note to Cosette , Jean Valjean saw only these words I die . 
When thou readest this , my soul will be near thee . 
He uttered a frightful cry of inward joy . 
So it was all over . 
The catastrophe had arrived sooner than he had dared to hope . 
The being who obstructed his destiny was disappearing . 
That man had taken himself off of his own accord , freely , willingly . 
This man was going to his death , and he , Jean Valjean , had had no hand in the matter , and it was through no fault of his . 
Perhaps , even , he is already dead . 
Here his fever entered into calculations . 
No , he is not dead yet . 
Jean Valjean felt himself delivered . 
So he was about to find himself alone with Cosette once more . 
The rivalry would cease the future was beginning again . 
He had but to keep this note in his pocket . 
Cosette would never know what had become of that man . 
All that there requires to be done is to let things take their own course . 
If he is not already dead , it is certain that he is about to die . 
What good fortune ! Having said all this to himself , he became gloomy . 
Then he went down stairs and woke up the porter . 
About an hour later , Jean Valjean went out in the complete costume of a National Guard , and with his arms . 
The porter had easily found in the neighborhood the wherewithal to complete his equipment . 
He had a loaded gun and a cartridge box filled with cartridges . 
He strode off in the direction of the markets . 
CHAPTER IV GAVROCHE'S EXCESS OF ZEAL In the meantime , Gavroche had had an adventure . 
His march , far from being retarded by his singing , was accelerated by it . 
He began to sow along the sleeping or terrified houses these incendiary couplets L'oiseau medit dans les charmilles , Et pretend qu'hier Atala Avec un Russe s'en alla . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Mon ami Pierrot , tu babilles , Parce que l'autre jour Mila Cogna sa vitre et m'appela , Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Les drolesses sont fort gentilles , Leur poison qui m'ensorcela Griserait Monsieur Orfila . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
J'aime l'amour et les bisbilles , J'aime Agnes , j'aime Pamela , Lisa en m'allumant se brula . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Jadis , quand je vis les mantilles De Suzette et de Zeila , Mon ame aleurs plis se mela , Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Amour , quand dans l'ombre ou tu brilles , Tu coiffes de roses Lola , Je me damnerais pour cela . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Jeanne a ton miroir tu t'habilles ! Mon coeur un beau jour s'envola . 
Je crois que c'est Jeanne qui l'a . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Le soir , en sortant des quadrilles , Je montre aux etoiles Stella , Et je leur dis 'Regardez la . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
The bird slanders in the elms , And pretends that yesterday , Atala Went off with a Russian , Where fair maids go . 
My friend Pierrot , thou pratest , because Mila knocked at her pane the other day and called me . 
The jades are very charming , their poison which bewitched me would intoxicate Monsieur Orfila . 
I'm fond of love and its bickerings , I love Agnes , I love Pamela , Lise burned herself in setting me aflame . 
In former days when I saw the mantillas of Suzette and of Zeila , my soul mingled with their folds . 
Love , when thou gleamest in the dark thou crownest Lola with roses , I would lose my soul for that . 
Jeanne , at thy mirror thou deckest thyself ! One fine day , my heart flew forth . 
I think that it is Jeanne who has it . 
At night , when I come from the quadrilles , I show Stella to the stars , and I say to them Behold her . 
Where fair maids go , lon la . 
Gavroche , as he sang , was lavish of his pantomime . 
Gesture is the strong point of the refrain . 
His face , an inexhaustible repertory of masks , produced grimaces more convulsing and more fantastic than the rents of a cloth torn in a high gale . 
Unfortunately , as he was alone , and as it was night , this was neither seen nor even visible . 
Such wastes of riches do occur . 
All at once , he stopped short . 
Let us interrupt the romance , said he . 
The shafts of the cart rested on the pavement , and the Auvergnat's head was supported against the front of the cart . 
His body was coiled up on this inclined plane and his feet touched the ground . 
Gavroche , with his experience of the things of this world , recognized a drunken man . 
He was some corner errand man who had drunk too much and was sleeping too much . 
There now , thought Gavroche , that's what the summer nights are good for . 
We'll take the cart for the Republic , and leave the Auvergnat for the Monarchy . 
His mind had just been illuminated by this flash of light How bully that cart would look on our barricade ! The Auvergnat was snoring . 
Gavroche , habituated to facing the unexpected in all quarters , had everything about him . 
He fumbled in one of his pockets , and pulled from it a scrap of paper and a bit of red pencil filched from some carpenter . 
And he signed it GAVROCHE . 
There was a post at the Royal Printing Establishment . 
Gavroche did not think of this . 
This post was occupied by the National Guards of the suburbs . 
The squad began to wake up , and heads were raised from camp beds . 
Two street lanterns broken in succession , that ditty sung at the top of the lungs . 
This was a great deal for those cowardly streets , which desire to go to sleep at sunset , and which put the extinguisher on their candles at such an early hour . 
For the last hour , that boy had been creating an uproar in that peaceable arrondissement , the uproar of a fly in a bottle . 
The sergeant of the banlieue lent an ear . 
He was a prudent man . 
The mad rattle of the cart , filled to overflowing the possible measure of waiting , and decided the sergeant to make a reconnaisance . 
There's a whole band of them there ! said he , let us proceed gently . 
It was clear that the hydra of anarchy had emerged from its box and that it was stalking abroad through the quarter . 
And the sergeant ventured out of the post with cautious tread . 
For the second time , he stopped short . 
Hullo , said he , it's him . 
Good day , public order . 
Gavroche's amazement was always brief and speedily thawed . 
Where are you going , you rascal ? shouted the sergeant . 
Citizen , retorted Gavroche , I haven't called you bourgeois' yet . 
I ask you where are you going , you villain ? Gavroche replied You speak prettily . 
Really , no one would suppose you as old as you are . 
You ought to sell all your hair at a hundred francs apiece . 
That would yield you five hundred francs . 
The sergeant lowered his bayonet . 
Will you tell me where you are going , you wretch ? General , said Gavroche I'm on my way to look for a doctor for my wife who is in labor . 
To arms ! shouted the sergeant . 
The master stroke of strong men consists in saving themselves by the very means that have ruined them Gavroche took in the whole situation at a glance . 
It was the cart which had told against him , it was the cart's place to protect him . 
The men of the post had rushed out pell mell at the sergeant's shout the shot brought on a general random discharge , after which they reloaded their weapons and began again . 
This blind man's buff musketry lasted for a quarter of an hour and killed several panes of glass . 
This gayety was troubled by one bitter reflection . 
If I only reach the barricade in season ! Thereupon he set out again on a run . 
And as he ran Ah , by the way , where was I ? said he . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Quelqu'un veut il jouer aux quilles ? Tout l'ancien monde s'ecroula Quand la grosse boule roula . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Vieux bon peuple , a coups de bequilles , Cassons ce Louvre ou s'etala La monarchie en falbala . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
Nous en avons force les grilles , Le roi Charles Dix ce jour la , Tenait mal et se decolla . 
Ou vont les belles filles , Lon la . 
But some prisons still remain , and I am going to put a stop to this sort of public order . 
Does any one wish to play at skittles ? The whole ancient world fell in ruin , when the big ball rolled . 
Good old folks , let us smash with our crutches that Louvre where the monarchy displayed itself in furbelows . 
We have forced its gates . 
On that day , King Charles X. did not stick well and came unglued . 
The post's recourse to arms was not without result . 
The cart was conquered , the drunken man was taken prisoner . 
The first was put in the pound , the second was later on somewhat harassed before the councils of war as an accomplice . 
The public ministry of the day proved its indefatigable zeal in the defence of society , in this instance . 
The end of Volume IV . 
Saint Denis VOLUME IV JEAN VALJEAN BOOK FIRST . 
Beggars attack the common right the ochlocracy rises against demos . 
Athens was an ochlocracy the beggars were the making of Holland the populace saved Rome more than once and the rabble followed Jesus Christ . 
There is no thinker who has not at times contemplated the magnificences of the lower classes . 
The man of probity sacrifices himself , and out of his very love for this crowd , he combats it . 
June , , let us hasten to say , was an exceptional fact , and almost impossible of classification , in the philosophy of history . 
It was necessary to combat it , and this was a duty , for it attacked the republic . 
But what was June , , at bottom ? A revolt of the people against itself . 
The Saint Antoine barricade was tremendous it was three stories high , and seven hundred feet wide . 
Nineteen barricades were ranged , one behind the other , in the depths of the streets behind this principal barricade . 
At the very sight of it , one felt the agonizing suffering in the immense faubourg , which had reached that point of extremity when a distress may become a catastrophe . 
Of what was that barricade made ? Of the ruins of three six story houses demolished expressly , said some . 
Of the prodigy of all wraths , said others . 
It wore the lamentable aspect of all constructions of hatred , ruin . 
It might be asked Who built this ? It might also be said Who destroyed this ? It was the improvisation of the ebullition . 
It was grand and it was petty . 
It was the abyss parodied on the public place by hubbub . 
The mass beside the atom the strip of ruined wall and the broken bowl , threatening fraternization of every sort of rubbish . 
Sisyphus had thrown his rock there and Job his potsherd . 
It was the acropolis of the barefooted . 
The situation deserved the trouble and this barricade was worthy to figure on the very spot whence the Bastille had disappeared . 
If the ocean made dikes , it is thus that it would build . 
The fury of the flood was stamped upon this shapeless mass . 
What flood ? The crowd . 
One thought one beheld hubbub petrified . 
One thought one heard humming above this barricade as though there had been over their hive , enormous , dark bees of violent progress . 
Was it a thicket ? Was it a bacchanalia ? Was it a fortress ? Vertigo seemed to have constructed it with blows of its wings . 
There was something of the cess pool in that redoubt and something Olympian in that confusion . 
It was huge and living , and , like the back of an electric beast , there proceeded from it little flashes of lightning . 
It was a heap of filth and it was Sinai . 
As we have said previously , it attacked in the name of the revolution what ? The revolution . 
Immense but heroic defiance , for the old faubourg is a hero . 
The faubourg and its redoubt lent each other assistance . 
The faubourg shouldered the redoubt , the redoubt took its stand under cover of the faubourg . 
The vast barricade spread out like a cliff against which the strategy of the African generals dashed itself . 
Its caverns , its excrescences , its warts , its gibbosities , grimaced , so to speak , and grinned beneath the smoke . 
This wall was built of paving stones . 
It was straight , correct , cold , perpendicular , levelled with the square , laid out by rule and line . 
Cement was lacking , of course , but , as in the case of certain Roman walls , without interfering with its rigid architecture . 
The entablature was mathematically parallel with the base . 
From distance to distance , one could distinguish on the gray surface , almost invisible loopholes which resembled black threads . 
These loopholes were separated from each other by equal spaces . 
The street was deserted as far as the eye could reach . 
All windows and doors were closed . 
The dazzling sun of June inundated this terrible thing with light . 
It was the barricade of the Faubourg of the Temple . 
As soon as one arrived on the spot , and caught sight of it , it was impossible , even for the boldest , not to become thoughtful before this mysterious apparition . 
It was adjusted , jointed , imbricated , rectilinear , symmetrical and funereal . 
Science and gloom met there . 
One felt that the chief of this barricade was a geometrician or a spectre . 
One looked at it and spoke low . 
For the men in the barricade had made themselves two small cannons out of two cast iron lengths of gas pipe , plugged up at one end with tow and fire clay . 
There was no waste of useless powder . 
There were corpses here and there , and pools of blood on the pavement . 
I remember a white butterfly which went and came in the street . 
In the neighborhood , the spaces beneath the portes cocheres were encumbered with wounded . 
One felt oneself aimed at by some person whom one did not see , and one understood that guns were levelled at the whole length of the street . 
Some crawled flat on their faces as far as the crest of the curve of the bridge , taking care that their shakos did not project beyond it . 
The valiant Colonel Monteynard admired this barricade with a shudder . 
How that is built ! he said to a Representative . 
Not one paving stone projects beyond its neighbor . 
It is made of porcelain . 
At that moment , a bullet broke the cross on his breast , and he fell . 
The cowards ! people said . 
On the fourth , they did as at Zaatcha , as at Constantine , they pierced the houses , they came over the roofs , the barricade was taken . 
Not one of the eighty cowards thought of flight , all were killed there with the exception of the leader , Barthelemy , of whom we shall speak presently . 
The Saint Antoine barricade was the tumult of thunders the barricade of the Temple was silence . 
The difference between these two redoubts was the difference between the formidable and the sinister . 
One seemed a maw the other a mask . 
These two fortresses had been erected by two men named , the one , Cournet , the other , Barthelemy . 
Cournet made the Saint Antoine barricade Barthelemy the barricade of the Temple . 
Each was the image of the man who had built it . 
Cournet was a man of lofty stature he had broad shoulders , a red face , a crushing fist , a bold heart , a loyal soul , a sincere and terrible eye . 
Intrepid , energetic , irascible , stormy the most cordial of men , the most formidable of combatants . 
War , strife , conflict , were the very air he breathed and put him in a good humor . 
With the exception of the genius , there was in Cournet something of Danton , as , with the exception of the divinity , there was in Danton something of Hercules . 
He came out and made this barricade . 
Later on , fatal circumstance , in London , proscribed by all , Barthelemy slew Cournet . 
It was a funereal duel . 
Barthelemy , on occasion , flew but one flag , the black flag . 
The insurgents under the eye of Enjolras , for Marius no longer looked after anything , had made good use of the night . 
The barricade had been not only repaired , but augmented . 
They had raised it two feet . 
Bars of iron planted in the pavement resembled lances in rest . 
All sorts of rubbish brought and added from all directions complicated the external confusion . 
The redoubt had been cleverly made over , into a wall on the inside and a thicket on the outside . 
The staircase of paving stones which permitted one to mount it like the wall of a citadel had been reconstructed . 
They laid the dead in a heap in the Mondetour lane , of which they were still the masters . 
The pavement was red for a long time at that spot . 
Among the dead there were four National Guardsmen of the suburbs . 
Enjolras had their uniforms laid aside . 
Enjolras had advised two hours of sleep . 
Advice from Enjolras was a command . 
Still , only three or four took advantage of it . 
The three women had profited by the respite of the night to vanish definitely which allowed the insurgents to breathe more freely . 
They had found means of taking refuge in some neighboring house . 
The greater part of the wounded were able , and wished , to fight still . 
The municipal guardsmen were attended to first . 
In the tap room there remained only Mabeuf under his black cloth and Javert bound to his post . 
This is the hall of the dead , said Enjolras . 
The pole of the omnibus , although snapped off by the fusillade , was still sufficiently upright to admit of their fastening the flag to it . 
Enjolras , who possessed that quality of a leader , of always doing what he said , attached to this staff the bullet ridden and bloody coat of the old man's . 
No repast had been possible . 
There was neither bread nor meat . 
The fifty men in the barricade had speedily exhausted the scanty provisions of the wine shop during the sixteen hours which they had passed there . 
At a given moment , every barricade inevitably becomes the raft of la Meduse . 
They were obliged to resign themselves to hunger . 
As they could no longer eat , Enjolras forbade them to drink . 
He interdicted wine , and portioned out the brandy . 
They had found in the cellar fifteen full bottles hermetically sealed . 
Enjolras and Combeferre examined them . 
Combeferre when he came up again said It's the old stock of Father Hucheloup , who began business as a grocer . 
It must be real wine , observed Bossuet . 
It's lucky that Grantaire is asleep . 
If he were on foot , there would be a good deal of difficulty in saving those bottles . 
About two o'clock in the morning , they reckoned up their strength . 
There were still thirty seven of them . 
The day began to dawn . 
The torch , which had been replaced in its cavity in the pavement , had just been extinguished . 
The combatants , as they went and came , moved about there like black forms . 
Above that terrible nesting place of gloom the stories of the mute houses were lividly outlined at the very top , the chimneys stood palely out . 
The sky was of that charming , undecided hue , which may be white and may be blue . 
Birds flew about in it with cries of joy . 
The lofty house which formed the back of the barricade , being turned to the East , had upon its roof a rosy reflection . 
The morning breeze ruffled the gray hair on the head of the dead man at the third story window . 
I am delighted that the torch has been extinguished , said Courfeyrac to Feuilly . 
That torch flickering in the wind annoyed me . 
It had the appearance of being afraid . 
The light of torches resembles the wisdom of cowards it gives a bad light because it trembles . 
Dawn awakens minds as it does the birds all began to talk . 
Joly , perceiving a cat prowling on a gutter , extracted philosophy from it . 
What is the cat ? he exclaimed . 
The good God , having made the mouse , said Hullo ! I have committed a blunder . 
And so he made the cat . 
The cat is the erratum of the mouse . 
The mouse , plus the cat , is the proof of creation revised and corrected . 
He said Harmodius and Aristogiton , Brutus , Chereas , Stephanus , Cromwell , Charlotte Corday , Sand , have all had their moment of agony when it was too late . 
Caesar , said Combeferre , fell justly . 
Cicero was severe towards Caesar , and he was right . 
That severity is not diatribe . 
But Zoilus and Cicero are two different persons . 
Cicero is an arbiter in thought , just as Brutus is an arbiter by the sword . 
For my own part , I blame that last justice , the blade but , antiquity admitted it . 
He was a great man so much the worse , or so much the better the lesson is but the more exalted . 
His twenty three wounds touch me less than the spitting in the face of Jesus Christ . 
Caesar is stabbed by the senators Christ is cuffed by lackeys . 
One feels the God through the greater outrage . 
He had made his way out through Mondetour lane , gliding along close to the houses . 
The insurgents , we will remark , were full of hope . 
The manner in which they had repulsed the attack of the preceding night had caused them to almost disdain in advance the attack at dawn . 
They waited for it with a smile . 
They had no more doubt as to their success than as to their cause . 
Moreover , succor was , evidently , on the way to them . 
With that facility of triumphant prophecy which is one of the sources of strength in the French combatant , they divided the day which was at hand into three distinct phases . 
At six o'clock in the morning a regiment which had been labored with , would turn at noon , the insurrection of all Paris at sunset , revolution . 
All these hopes were exchanged between the different groups in a sort of gay and formidable whisper which resembled the warlike hum of a hive of bees . 
He returned from his sombre eagle flight into outer darkness . 
He listened for a moment to all this joy with folded arms , and one hand on his mouth . 
Then , fresh and rosy in the growing whiteness of the dawn , he said The whole army of Paris is to strike . 
A third of the army is bearing down upon the barricades in which you now are . 
There is the National Guard in addition . 
I have picked out the shakos of the fifth of the line , and the standard bearers of the sixth legion . 
In one hour you will be attacked . 
As for the populace , it was seething yesterday , to day it is not stirring . 
There is nothing to expect nothing to hope for . 
Neither from a faubourg nor from a regiment . 
These words fell upon the buzzing of the groups , and produced on them the effect caused on a swarm of bees by the first drops of a storm . 
A moment of indescribable silence ensued , in which death might have been heard flitting by . 
A voice from the obscurest depths of the groups shouted to Enjolras So be it . 
Let us raise the barricade to a height of twenty feet , and let us all remain in it . 
Citizens , let us offer the protests of corpses . 
Let us show that , if the people abandon the republicans , the republicans do not abandon the people . 
These words freed the thought of all from the painful cloud of individual anxieties . 
It was hailed with an enthusiastic acclamation . 
As the reader sees , the two barricades , though materially isolated , were in communication with each other . 
All ! All ! Enjolras resumed The position is good the barricade is fine . 
Why sacrifice forty ? They replied Because not one will go away . 
Citizens , cried Enjolras , and there was an almost irritated vibration in his voice , this republic is not rich enough in men to indulge in useless expenditure of them . 
If the duty of some is to depart , that duty should be fulfilled like any other . 
Enjolras , the man principle , had over his co religionists that sort of omnipotent power which emanates from the absolute . 
Still , great as was this omnipotence , a murmur arose . 
A leader to the very finger tips , Enjolras , seeing that they murmured , insisted . 
He resumed haughtily Let those who are afraid of not numbering more than thirty say so . 
Besides , observed a voice in one group , it is easy enough to talk about leaving . 
The barricade is hemmed in . 
Not on the side of the Halles , said Enjolras . 
The Rue Mondetour is free , and through the Rue des Precheurs one can reach the Marche des Innocents . 
And there , went on another voice , you would be captured . 
You would fall in with some grand guard of the line or the suburbs they will spy a man passing in blouse and cap . 
Whence come you ? Don't you belong to the barricade ? And they will look at your hands . 
Enjolras , without making any reply , touched Combeferre's shoulder , and the two entered the tap room . 
They emerged thence a moment later . 
Enjolras held in his outstretched hands the four uniforms which he had laid aside . 
Combeferre followed , carrying the shoulder belts and the shakos . 
With this uniform , said Enjolras , you can mingle with the ranks and escape here is enough for four . 
And he flung on the ground , deprived of its pavement , the four uniforms . 
No wavering took place in his stoical audience . 
Come , said he , you must have a little pity . 
Do you know what the question is here ? It is a question of women . 
Die , if you will , but don't make others die . 
Think of the little blond heads think of the white locks . 
Perhaps she is the mother of some one of you . 
When one supports one's relatives by one's toil , one has not the right to sacrifice one's self . 
That is deserting one's family . 
And those who have daughters ! what are you thinking of ? You get yourselves killed , you are dead , that is well . 
And tomorrow ? Young girls without bread that is a terrible thing . 
Man begs , woman sells . 
These women , too , were pure once . 
Think of your sisters , those of you who have them . 
Friends , have a care , have mercy . 
Women , unhappy women , we are not in the habit of bestowing much thought on them . 
I know well that courage is required to leave , that it is hard but the harder it is , the more meritorious . 
You say I have a gun , I am at the barricade so much the worse , I shall remain there . 
So much the worse is easily said . 
Poor people had taken him in out of charity , but they had bread only for themselves . 
The child was always hungry . 
You could see him approach the stove , in which there was never any fire , and whose pipe , you know , was of mastic and yellow clay . 
His breathing was hoarse , his face livid , his limbs flaccid , his belly prominent . 
If you spoke to him , he did not answer . 
He was taken to the Necker Hospital , where I saw him . 
I was house surgeon in that hospital . 
A sort of mud was found in his stomach . 
There were ashes in his teeth . 
Come , let us examine ourselves conscientiously and take counsel with our heart . 
Statistics show that the mortality among abandoned children is fifty five per cent . 
I repeat , it is a question of women , it concerns mothers , it concerns young girls , it concerns little children . 
But you are not alone in this world . 
There are other beings of whom you must think . 
You must not be egoists . 
All dropped their heads with a gloomy air . 
Strange contradictions of the human heart at its most sublime moments . 
Combeferre , who spoke thus , was not an orphan . 
He recalled the mothers of other men , and forgot his own . 
He was about to get himself killed . 
A physiologist might have studied in him the growing symptoms of that febrile absorption known to , and classified by , science , and which is to suffering what voluptuousness is to pleasure . 
Despair , also , has its ecstasy . 
Marius had reached this point . 
He looked on at everything as from without as we have said , things which passed before him seemed far away he made out the whole , but did not perceive the details . 
He beheld men going and coming as through a flame . 
He heard voices speaking as at the bottom of an abyss . 
There was in this scene a point which pierced and roused even him . 
Enjolras and Combeferre are right , said he no unnecessary sacrifice . 
I join them , and you must make haste . 
Combeferre has said convincing things to you . 
There are some among you who have families , mothers , sisters , wives , children . 
Let such leave the ranks . 
Married men and the supporters of families , step out of the ranks ! repeated Marius . 
Enjolras was certainly the head of the barricade , but Marius was its savior . 
I order it , cried Enjolras . 
I entreat you , said Marius . 
Then , touched by Combeferre's words , shaken by Enjolras' order , touched by Marius' entreaty , these heroic men began to denounce each other . 
It is true , said one young man to a full grown man , you are the father of a family . 
It is your duty rather , retorted the man , you have two sisters whom you maintain . 
And an unprecedented controversy broke forth . 
Each struggled to determine which should not allow himself to be placed at the door of the tomb . 
Make haste , said Courfeyrac , in another quarter of an hour it will be too late . 
Citizens , pursued Enjolras , this is the Republic , and universal suffrage reigns . 
Do you yourselves designate those who are to go . 
After the expiration of a few minutes , five were unanimously selected and stepped out of the ranks . 
There are five of them ! exclaimed Marius . 
There were only four uniforms . 
Well , began the five , one must stay behind . 
And then a struggle arose as to who should remain , and who should find reasons for the others not remaining . 
The generous quarrel began afresh . 
You have a wife who loves you . 
You have your aged mother . 
You have neither father nor mother , and what is to become of your three little brothers ? You are the father of five children . 
You have a right to live , you are only seventeen , it is too early for you to die . 
These great revolutionary barricades were assembling points for heroism . 
The improbable was simple there . 
These men did not astonish each other . 
Be quick , repeated Courfeyrac . 
Men shouted to Marius from the groups Do you designate who is to remain . 
Yes , said the five , choose . 
Marius did not believe that he was capable of another emotion . 
Still , at this idea , that of choosing a man for death , his blood rushed back to his heart . 
He would have turned pale , had it been possible for him to become any paler . 
At that moment , a fifth uniform fell , as if from heaven , upon the other four . 
The fifth man was saved . 
Marius raised his eyes and recognized M. Fauchelevent . 
Jean Valjean had just entered the barricade . 
He had arrived by way of Mondetour lane , whither by dint of inquiries made , or by instinct , or chance . 
Thanks to his dress of a National Guardsman , he had made his way without difficulty . 
The moment was too grave to admit of the sentinel abandoning his duty and his post of observation . 
At the moment when Jean Valjean entered the redoubt , no one had noticed him , all eyes being fixed on the five chosen men and the four uniforms . 
Jean Valjean also had seen and heard , and he had silently removed his coat and flung it on the pile with the rest . 
The emotion aroused was indescribable . 
Who is this man ? demanded Bossuet . 
He is a man who saves others , replied Combeferre . 
Marius added in a grave voice I know him . 
This guarantee satisfied every one . 
Enjolras turned to Jean Valjean . 
And he added You know that we are about to die . 
Jean Valjean , without replying , helped the insurgent whom he was saving to don his uniform . 
Enjolras was standing erect on the staircase of paving stones , one elbow resting on the stock of his gun . 
He was engaged in thought he quivered , as at the passage of prophetic breaths places where death is have these effects of tripods . 
A sort of stifled fire darted from his eyes , which were filled with an inward look . 
Reflect on what progress has already accomplished . 
Man , nevertheless , spread his snares , consecrated by intelligence , and finally conquered these monsters . 
We have vanquished the hydra , and it is called the locomotive we are on the point of vanquishing the griffin , we already grasp it , and it is called the balloon . 
We are advancing to the union of peoples we are advancing to the unity of man . 
No more fictions no more parasites . 
The real governed by the true , that is the goal . 
Civilization will hold its assizes at the summit of Europe , and , later on , at the centre of continents , in a grand parliament of the intelligence . 
Something similar has already been seen . 
The amphictyons had two sittings a year , one at Delphos the seat of the gods , the other at Thermopylae , the place of heroes . 
Europe will have her amphictyons the globe will have its amphictyons . 
France bears this sublime future in her breast . 
This is the gestation of the nineteenth century . 
That which Greece sketched out is worthy of being finished by France . 
Listen to me , you , Feuilly , valiant artisan , man of the people . 
Yes , you clearly behold the future , yes , you are right . 
You had neither father nor mother , Feuilly you adopted humanity for your mother and right for your father . 
You are about to die , that is to say to triumph , here . 
Citizens , whatever happens to day , through our defeat as well as through our victory , it is a revolution that we are about to create . 
As conflagrations light up a whole city , so revolutions illuminate the whole human race . 
And what is the revolution that we shall cause ? I have just told you , the Revolution of the True . 
From a political point of view , there is but a single principle the sovereignty of man over himself . 
This sovereignty of myself over myself is called Liberty . 
Where two or three of these sovereignties are combined , the state begins . 
But in that association there is no abdication . 
Each sovereignty concedes a certain quantity of itself , for the purpose of forming the common right . 
This quantity is the same for all of us . 
This identity of concession which each makes to all , is called Equality . 
Common right is nothing else than the protection of all beaming on the right of each . 
This protection of all over each is called Fraternity . 
The point of intersection of all these assembled sovereignties is called society . 
This intersection being a junction , this point is a knot . 
Hence what is called the social bond . 
Some say social contract which is the same thing , the word contract being etymologically formed with the idea of a bond . 
Let us come to an understanding about equality for , if liberty is the summit , equality is the base . 
Equality has an organ gratuitous and obligatory instruction . 
The right to the alphabet , that is where the beginning must be made . 
The primary school imposed on all , the secondary school offered to all , that is the law . 
From an identical school , an identical society will spring . 
Yes , instruction ! light ! light ! everything comes from light , and to it everything returns . 
Citizens , the nineteenth century is great , but the twentieth century will be happy . 
One might almost say There will be no more events . 
Friends , the present hour in which I am addressing you , is a gloomy hour but these are terrible purchases of the future . 
A revolution is a toll . 
Oh ! the human race will be delivered , raised up , consoled ! We affirm it on this barrier . 
Here misery meets the ideal . 
The day embraces the night , and says to it I am about to die , and thou shalt be born again with me . 
From the embrace of all desolations faith leaps forth . 
Sufferings bring hither their agony and ideas their immortality . 
This agony and this immortality are about to join and constitute our death . 
Brothers , he who dies here dies in the radiance of the future , and we are entering a tomb all flooded with the dawn . 
There was no applause but they whispered together for a long time . 
Speech being a breath , the rustling of intelligences resembles the rustling of leaves . 
CHAPTER VI MARIUS HAGGARD , JAVERT LACONIC Let us narrate what was passing in Marius' thoughts . 
Let the reader recall the state of his soul . 
We have just recalled it , everything was a vision to him now . 
Marius , let us insist on this point , was under the shadow of the great , dark wings which are spread over those in the death agony . 
How did M. Fauchelevent come there ? Why was he there ? What had he come there to do ? Marius did not address all these questions to himself . 
Besides , since our despair has this peculiarity , that it envelops others as well as ourselves , it seemed logical to him that all the world should come thither to die . 
Only , he thought of Cosette with a pang at his heart . 
He had always felt the absolute impossibility of addressing that enigmatical man , who was , in his eyes , both equivocal and imposing . 
Moreover , it had been a long time since he had seen him and this still further augmented the impossibility for Marius' timid and reserved nature . 
The five chosen men left the barricade by way of Mondetour lane they bore a perfect resemblance to members of the National Guard . 
One of them wept as he took his leave . 
Before setting out , they embraced those who remained . 
When the five men sent back to life had taken their departure , Enjolras thought of the man who had been condemned to death . 
He entered the tap room . 
Javert , still bound to the post , was engaged in meditation . 
Do you want anything ? Enjolras asked him . 
Javert replied When are you going to kill me ? Wait . 
We need all our cartridges just at present . 
Then give me a drink , said Javert . 
Enjolras himself offered him a glass of water , and , as Javert was pinioned , he helped him to drink . 
Is that all ? inquired Enjolras . 
I am uncomfortable against this post , replied Javert . 
You are not tender to have left me to pass the night here . 
Bind me as you please , but you surely might lay me out on a table like that other man . 
And with a motion of the head , he indicated the body of M. Mabeuf . 
There was , as the reader will remember , a long , broad table at the end of the room , on which they had been running bullets and making cartridges . 
All the cartridges having been made , and all the powder used , this table was free . 
At Enjolras' command , four insurgents unbound Javert from the post . 
While they were loosing him , a fifth held a bayonet against his breast . 
While they were binding Javert , a man standing on the threshold was surveying him with singular attention . 
The shadow cast by this man made Javert turn his head . 
He raised his eyes , and recognized Jean Valjean . 
He did not even start , but dropped his lids proudly and confined himself to the remark It is perfectly simple . 
CHAPTER VII THE SITUATION BECOMES AGGRAVATED The daylight was increasing rapidly . 
Not a window was opened , not a door stood ajar it was the dawn but not the awaking . 
The Rue Saint Denis was as dumb as the avenue of Sphinxes at Thebes . 
Not a living being in the cross roads , which gleamed white in the light of the sun . 
Nothing is so mournful as this light in deserted streets . 
Nothing was to be seen , but there was something to be heard . 
A mysterious movement was going on at a certain distance . 
It was evident that the critical moment was approaching . 
As on the previous evening , the sentinels had come in but this time all had come . 
The barricade was stronger than on the occasion of the first attack . 
Since the departure of the five , they had increased its height still further . 
On the advice of the sentinel who had examined the region of the Halles , Enjolras , for fear of a surprise in the rear , came to a serious decision . 
He had the small gut of the Mondetour lane , which had been left open up to that time , barricaded . 
For this purpose , they tore up the pavement for the length of several houses more . 
It had three fronts , but no exit . 
A fortress but a rat hole too , said Courfeyrac with a laugh . 
Enjolras had about thirty paving stones torn up in excess , said Bossuet , piled up near the door of the wine shop . 
The silence was now so profound in the quarter whence the attack must needs come , that Enjolras had each man resume his post of battle . 
An allowance of brandy was doled out to each . 
Nothing is more curious than a barricade preparing for an assault . 
Each man selects his place as though at the theatre . 
They jostle , and elbow and crowd each other . 
There are some who make stalls of paving stones . 
Here is a corner of the wall which is in the way , it is removed here is a redan which may afford protection , they take shelter behind it . 
Left handed men are precious they take the places that are inconvenient to the rest . 
Many arrange to fight in a sitting posture . 
They wish to be at ease to kill , and to die comfortably . 
A barricade before the arrival of danger is chaos in danger , it is discipline itself . 
As soon as Enjolras had seized his double barrelled rifle , and had placed himself in a sort of embrasure which he had reserved for himself , all the rest held their peace . 
A series of faint , sharp noises resounded confusedly along the wall of paving stones . 
It was the men cocking their guns . 
Supreme resources spring from extreme resolutions . 
To embark in death is sometimes the means of escaping a shipwreck and the lid of the coffin becomes a plank of safety . 
As on the preceding evening , the attention of all was directed , we might almost say leaned upon , the end of the street , now lighted up and visible . 
They had not long to wait . 
A stir began distinctly in the Saint Leu quarter , but it did not resemble the movement of the first attack . 
The fixity of eye in all the combatants upon the extremity of the street became ferocious . 
A cannon made its appearance . 
Artillery men were pushing the piece it was in firing trim the fore carriage had been detached two upheld the gun carriage , four were at the wheels others followed with the caisson . 
They could see the smoke of the burning lint stock . 
Not one of them had been struck . 
Then the captain of the piece , bearing down upon the breech in order to raise the muzzle , began to point the cannon with the gravity of an astronomer levelling a telescope . 
Bravo for the cannoneers ! cried Bossuet . 
And the whole barricade clapped their hands . 
A moment later , squarely planted in the very middle of the street , astride of the gutter , the piece was ready for action . 
A formidable pair of jaws yawned on the barricade . 
Come , merrily now ! ejaculated Courfeyrac . 
That's the brutal part of it . 
After the fillip on the nose , the blow from the fist . 
The army is reaching out its big paw to us . 
The barricade is going to be severely shaken up . 
The fusillade tries , the cannon takes . 
It is a piece of eight , new model , brass , added Combeferre . 
Those pieces are liable to burst as soon as the proportion of ten parts of tin to one hundred of brass is exceeded . 
The excess of tin renders them too tender . 
Then it comes to pass that they have caves and chambers when looked at from the vent hole . 
In the meantime , they remedy this defect as best they may they manage to discover where the holes are located in the vent of a cannon , by means of a searcher . 
But there is a better method , with Gribeauval's movable star . 
In the sixteenth century , remarked Bossuet , they used to rifle cannon . 
Yes , replied Combeferre , that augments the projectile force , but diminishes the accuracy of the firing . 
In short , that despot , the cannon , cannot do all that it desires force is a great weakness . 
A cannon ball only travels six hundred leagues an hour light travels seventy thousand leagues a second . 
Such is the superiority of Jesus Christ over Napoleon . 
Reload your guns , said Enjolras . 
How was the casing of the barricade going to behave under the cannon balls ? Would they effect a breach ? That was the question . 
While the insurgents were reloading their guns , the artillery men were loading the cannon . 
The anxiety in the redoubt was profound . 
The shot sped the report burst forth . 
Present ! shouted a joyous voice . 
And Gavroche flung himself into the barricade just as the ball dashed against it . 
He came from the direction of the Rue du Cygne , and he had nimbly climbed over the auxiliary barricade which fronted on the labyrinth of the Rue de la Petite Truanderie . 
Gavroche produced a greater sensation in the barricade than the cannon ball . 
The ball buried itself in the mass of rubbish . 
At the most there was an omnibus wheel broken , and the old Anceau cart was demolished . 
On seeing this , the barricade burst into a laugh . 
Go on ! shouted Bossuet to the artillerists . 
CHAPTER VIII THE ARTILLERY MEN COMPEL PEOPLE TO TAKE THEM SERIOUSLY Thet flocked round Gavroche . 
But he had no time to tell anything . 
Marius drew him aside with a shudder . 
What are you doing here ? Hullo ! said the child , what are you doing here yourself ? And he stared at Marius intently with his epic effrontery . 
His eyes grew larger with the proud light within them . 
In his haste to return to the barricade , he had got rid of it rather than delivered it . 
He was forced to acknowledge to himself that he had confided it rather lightly to that stranger whose face he had not been able to make out . 
It is true that the man was bareheaded , but that was not sufficient . 
In short , he had been administering to himself little inward remonstrances and he feared Marius' reproaches . 
In order to extricate himself from the predicament , he took the simplest course he lied abominably . 
Citizen , I delivered the letter to the porter . 
She will have the letter when she wakes up . 
Marius had had two objects in sending that letter to bid farewell to Cosette and to save Gavroche . 
He was obliged to content himself with the half of his desire . 
The despatch of his letter and the presence of M. Fauchelevent in the barricade , was a coincidence which occurred to him . 
He pointed out M. Fauchelevent to Gavroche . 
Do you know that man ? No , said Gavroche . 
Gavroche had , in fact , as we have just mentioned , seen Jean Valjean only at night . 
The troubled and unhealthy conjectures which had outlined themselves in Marius' mind were dissipated . 
Did he know M. Fauchelevent's opinions ? Perhaps M. Fauchelevent was a republican . 
Hence his very natural presence in this combat . 
In the meanwhile , Gavroche was shouting , at the other end of the barricade My gun ! Courfeyrac had it returned to him . 
Gavroche warned his comrades as he called them , that the barricade was blocked . 
He had had great difficulty in reaching it . 
The bulk of the army was facing them in front . 
This information given , Gavroche added I authorize you to hit 'em a tremendous whack . 
Meanwhile , Enjolras was straining his ears and watching at his embrasure . 
The assailants , dissatisfied , no doubt , with their shot , had not repeated it . 
A company of infantry of the line had come up and occupied the end of the street behind the piece of ordnance . 
In the angle at the left of this epaulement , there was visible the head of the column of a battalion from the suburbs massed in the Rue Saint Denis . 
Then the cannoneers began to load the piece . 
The chief seized the lint stock himself and lowered it to the vent . 
This is what it was , in fact . 
The charge had been aimed at the cut in the redoubt , and had there rebounded from the wall and this terrible rebound had produced two dead and three wounded . 
If this were continued , the barricade was no longer tenable . 
The grape shot made its way in . 
A murmur of consternation arose . 
Let us prevent the second discharge , said Enjolras . 
Combeferre , who was standing beside Enjolras , scrutinized this young man . 
What a pity ! said Combeferre . 
What hideous things these butcheries are ! Come , when there are no more kings , there will be no more war . 
Enjolras , you are taking aim at that sergeant , you are not looking at him . 
He is , said Enjolras . 
Yes , replied Combeferre , he is mine too . 
Well , let us not kill him . 
And a tear trickled slowly down Enjolras' marble cheek . 
At the same moment , he pressed the trigger of his rifle . 
They could see his back , from the centre of which there flowed directly a stream of blood . 
The ball had traversed his breast from side to side . 
He had to be carried away and replaced by another . 
Several minutes were thus gained , in fact . 
CHAPTER IX EMPLOYMENT OF THE OLD TALENTS OF A POACHER AND THAT INFALLIBLE MARKSMANSHIP WHICH INFLUENCED THE CONDEMNATION OF Opinions were exchanged in the barricade . 
The firing from the gun was about to begin again . 
Against that grape shot , they could not hold out a quarter of an hour longer . 
It was absolutely necessary to deaden the blows . 
Enjolras issued this command We must place a mattress there . 
We have none , said Combeferre , the wounded are lying on them . 
He did not appear to hear the combatants saying around him Here is a gun that is doing nothing . 
At the order issued by Enjolras , he rose . 
This window , an attic window , was on the roof of a six story house situated a little beyond the barricade . 
These ropes were distinctly visible , like hairs , against the sky . 
Can some one lend me a double barrelled rifle ? said Jean Valjean . 
Enjolras , who had just re loaded his , handed it to him . 
Jean Valjean took aim at the attic window and fired . 
One of the mattress ropes was cut . 
The mattress now hung by one thread only . 
Jean Valjean fired the second charge . 
The second rope lashed the panes of the attic window . 
The mattress slipped between the two poles and fell into the street . 
The insurgents did not reply to this musketry , in order to spare their ammunition The fusillade broke against the barricade but the street , which it filled , was terrible . 
He placed the mattress in the cut with his own hands . 
He fixed it there against the wall in such a manner that the artillery men should not see it . 
That done , they awaited the next discharge of grape shot . 
It was not long in coming . 
The cannon vomited forth its package of buck shot with a roar . 
But there was no rebound . 
The effect which they had foreseen had been attained . 
Citizen , said Enjolras to Jean Valjean , the Republic thanks you . 
He exclaimed It is immoral that a mattress should have so much power . 
Triumph of that which yields over that which strikes with lightning . 
But never mind , glory to the mattress which annuls a cannon ! CHAPTER X DAWN At that moment , Cosette awoke . 
Her chamber was narrow , neat , unobtrusive , with a long sash window , facing the East on the back court yard of the house . 
Cosette knew nothing of what was going on in Paris . 
She had not been there on the preceding evening , and she had already retired to her chamber when Toussaint had said It appears that there is a row . 
Cosette had slept only a few hours , but soundly . 
She had had sweet dreams , which possibly arose from the fact that her little bed was very white . 
Some one , who was Marius , had appeared to her in the light . 
She awoke with the sun in her eyes , which , at first , produced on her the effect of being a continuation of her dream . 
Her first thought on emerging from this dream was a smiling one . 
Cosette felt herself thoroughly reassured . 
Like Jean Valjean , she had , a few hours previously , passed through that reaction of the soul which absolutely will not hear of unhappiness . 
She began to cherish hope , with all her might , without knowing why . 
Then she felt a pang at her heart . 
It was three days since she had seen Marius . 
And that certainly to day , and perhaps that very morning . 
She felt that she could not live without Marius , and that , consequently , that was sufficient and that Marius would come . 
It was monstrous enough already to have suffered for three days . 
Marius absent three days , this was horrible on the part of the good God . 
Now , this cruel teasing from on high had been gone through with . 
Marius was about to arrive , and he would bring good news . 
Youth is made thus it quickly dries its eyes it finds sorrow useless and does not accept it . 
Youth is the smile of the future in the presence of an unknown quantity , which is itself . 
It is natural to it to be happy . 
It seems as though its respiration were made of hope . 
Every one has noticed with what nimbleness a coin which one has dropped on the ground rolls away and hides , and with what art it renders itself undiscoverable . 
Cosette was somewhat vexed at the useless little effort made by her memory . 
She told herself , that it was very naughty and very wicked of her , to have forgotten the words uttered by Marius . 
She sprang out of bed and accomplished the two ablutions of soul and body , her prayers and her toilet . 
One may , in a case of exigency , introduce the reader into a nuptial chamber , not into a virginal chamber . 
Verse would hardly venture it , prose must not . 
Woman in the bud is sacred . 
The eye of man must be more religious in the presence of the rising of a young girl than in the presence of the rising of a star . 
The possibility of hurting should inspire an augmentation of respect . 
The young girl is only the flash of a dream , and is not yet a statue . 
Her bed chamber is hidden in the sombre part of the ideal . 
The indiscreet touch of a glance brutalizes this vague penumbra . 
Here , contemplation is profanation . 
We shall , therefore , show nothing of that sweet little flutter of Cosette's rising . 
An oriental tale relates how the rose was made white by God , but that Adam looked upon her when she was unfolding , and she was ashamed and turned crimson . 
We are of the number who fall speechless in the presence of young girls and flowers , since we think them worthy of veneration . 
But no view of the outside was to be had . 
The back court was surrounded by tolerably high walls , and the outlook was only on several gardens . 
Cosette pronounced these gardens hideous for the first time in her life , she found flowers ugly . 
The smallest scrap of the gutter of the street would have met her wishes better . 
She decided to gaze at the sky , as though she thought that Marius might come from that quarter . 
All at once , she burst into tears . 
Not that this was fickleness of soul but hopes cut in twain by dejection that was her case . 
She had a confused consciousness of something horrible . 
Thoughts were rife in the air , in fact . 
Then , as is the nature of these clouds , calm returned to her , and hope and a sort of unconscious smile , which yet indicated trust in God . 
Every one in the house was still asleep . 
A country like silence reigned . 
Not a shutter had been opened . 
The porter's lodge was closed . 
Toussaint had not risen , and Cosette , naturally , thought that her father was asleep . 
She must have suffered much , and she must have still been suffering greatly , for she said to herself , that her father had been unkind but she counted on Marius . 
The eclipse of such a light was decidedly impossible . 
Now and then , she heard sharp shocks in the distance , and she said It is odd that people should be opening and shutting their carriage gates so early . 
They were the reports of the cannon battering the barricade . 
The mother was there , spreading her wings like a fan over her brood the father fluttered about , flew away , then came back , bearing in his beak food and kisses . 
The dawning day gilded this happy thing , the great law , Multiply , lay there smiling and august , and that sweet mystery unfolded in the glory of the morning . 
CHAPTER XI THE SHOT WHICH MISSES NOTHING AND KILLS NO ONE The assailants' fire continued . 
Musketry and grape shot alternated , but without committing great ravages , to tell the truth . 
The combatants who had been posted there had been obliged to withdraw . 
However , this is according to the tactics of barricades to fire for a long while , in order to exhaust the insurgents' ammunition , if they commit the mistake of replying . 
When it is perceived , from the slackening of their fire , that they have no more powder and ball , the assault is made . 
Enjolras had not fallen into this trap the barricade did not reply . 
At every discharge by platoons , Gavroche puffed out his cheek with his tongue , a sign of supreme disdain . 
Good for you , said he , rip up the cloth . 
Courfeyrac called the grape shot to order for the little effect which it produced , and said to the cannon You are growing diffuse , my good fellow . 
One gets puzzled in battle , as at a ball . 
The insurgents suddenly perceived a helmet glittering in the sun on a neighboring roof . 
A fireman had placed his back against a tall chimney , and seemed to be acting as sentinel . 
His glance fell directly down into the barricade . 
There's an embarrassing watcher , said Enjolras . 
Jean Valjean had returned Enjolras' rifle , but he had his own gun . 
Without saying a word , he took aim at the fireman , and , a second later , the helmet , smashed by a bullet , rattled noisily into the street . 
The terrified soldier made haste to disappear . 
A second observer took his place . 
This one was an officer . 
Jean Valjean , who had re loaded his gun , took aim at the newcomer and sent the officer's casque to join the soldier's . 
The officer did not persist , and retired speedily . 
This time the warning was understood . 
No one made his appearance thereafter on that roof and the idea of spying on the barricade was abandoned . 
Why did you not kill the man ? Bossuet asked Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean made no reply . 
CHAPTER XII DISORDER A PARTISAN OF ORDER Bossuet muttered in Combeferre's ear He did not answer my question . 
He is a man who does good by gun shots , said Combeferre . 
Those who have preserved some memory of this already distant epoch know that the National Guard from the suburbs was valiant against insurrections . 
It was particularly zealous and intrepid in the days of June , . 
In that bourgeois and heroic time , in the presence of ideas which had their knights , interests had their paladins . 
The prosiness of the originators detracted nothing from the bravery of the movement . 
The diminution of a pile of crowns made bankers sing the Marseillaise . 
They shed their blood lyrically for the counting house and they defended the shop , that immense diminutive of the fatherland , with Lacedaemonian enthusiasm . 
At bottom , we will observe , there was nothing in all this that was not extremely serious . 
It was social elements entering into strife , while awaiting the day when they should enter into equilibrium . 
Another sign of the times was the anarchy mingled with governmentalism the barbarous name of the correct party . 
People were for order in combination with lack of discipline . 
At critical moments , on days they took counsel less of their leaders than of their instincts . 
There existed in the army of order , veritable guerilleros , some of the sword , like Fannicot , others of the pen , like Henri Fonfrede . 
Zeal sometimes proceeded to extermination . 
A platoon of the National Guard would constitute itself on its own authority a private council of war , and judge and execute a captured insurgent in five minutes . 
It was an improvisation of this sort that had slain Jean Prouvaire . 
This Lynch law was complicated with mistakes . 
They shouted There's another of those Saint Simonians ! and they wanted to kill him . 
Now , he had under his arm a volume of the memoirs of the Duc de Saint Simon . 
This fact , singular though it may seem , was proved at the judicial investigation opened in consequence of the insurrection of . 
For his part , he thought the barricade ripe , and as that which is ripe ought to fall , he made the attempt . 
He commanded men as resolute as himself , raging fellows , as a witness said . 
His company , the same which had shot Jean Prouvaire the poet , was the first of the battalion posted at the angle of the street . 
At the moment when they were least expecting it , the captain launched his men against the barricade . 
This movement , executed with more good will than strategy , cost the Fannicot company dear . 
Before it had traversed two thirds of the street it was received by a general discharge from the barricade . 
The intrepid and imprudent Fannicot was one of the dead from this grape shot . 
He was killed by the cannon , that is to say , by order . 
This attack , which was more furious than serious , irritated Enjolras . 
The fools ! said he . 
They are getting their own men killed and they are using up our ammunition for nothing . 
Enjolras spoke like the real general of insurrection which he was . 
Insurrection and repression do not fight with equal weapons . 
Insurrection , which is speedily exhausted , has only a certain number of shots to fire and a certain number of combatants to expend . 
An empty cartridge box , a man killed , cannot be replaced . 
As repression has the army , it does not count its men , and , as it has Vincennes , it does not count its shots . 
Repression has as many regiments as the barricade has men , and as many arsenals as the barricade has cartridge boxes . 
Thus they are struggles of one against a hundred , which always end in crushing the barricade unless the revolution , uprising suddenly , flings into the balance its flaming archangel's sword . 
Then everything rises , the pavements begin to seethe , popular redoubts abound . 
One of these intermittences , one of these vague quivers of hope suddenly traversed the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie at the moment when it was least expected . 
Listen , suddenly cried Enjolras , who was still on the watch , it seems to me that Paris is waking up . 
It is certain that , on the morning of the th of June , the insurrection broke out afresh for an hour or two , to a certain extent . 
The obstinacy of the alarm peal of Saint Merry reanimated some fancies . 
Barricades were begun in the Rue du Poirier and the Rue des Gravilliers . 
In front of the Porte Saint Martin , a young man , armed with a rifle , attacked alone a squadron of cavalry . 
He was put to the sword . 
In the Rue Saint Denis , a woman fired on the National Guard from behind a lowered blind . 
The slats of the blind could be seen to tremble at every shot . 
A child fourteen years of age was arrested in the Rue de la Cossonerie , with his pockets full of cartridges . 
At the entrance to the Rue Bertin Poiree , a very lively and utterly unexpected fusillade welcomed a regiment of cuirrassiers , at whose head marched Marshal General Cavaignac de Barague . 
They made haste to stamp out these beginnings of conflagration . 
Columns were thrown into the streets where there was fermentation , sweeping the large , sounding the small , right and left , now slowly and cautiously , now at full charge . 
The troops broke in the doors of houses whence shots had been fired at the same time , manoeuvres by the cavalry dispersed the groups on the boulevards . 
This repression was not effected without some commotion , and without that tumultuous uproar peculiar to collisions between the army and the people . 
This was what Enjolras had caught in the intervals of the cannonade and the musketry . 
Moreover , he had seen wounded men passing the end of the street in litters , and he said to Courfeyrac Those wounded do not come from us . 
Their hope did not last long the gleam was quickly eclipsed . 
The sun was mounting above the horizon . 
You are wearing out your lungs , poor , brutal , old fellow , you pain me , you are wasting your row . 
That's not thunder , it's a cough . 
I admire Enjolras , said Bossuet . 
His impassive temerity astounds me . 
He lives alone , which renders him a little sad , perhaps Enjolras complains of his greatness , which binds him to widowhood . 
The rest of us have mistresses , more or less , who make us crazy , that is to say , brave . 
When a man is as much in love as a tiger , the least that he can do is to fight like a lion . 
That is one way of taking our revenge for the capers that mesdames our grisettes play on us . 
Roland gets himself killed for Angelique all our heroism comes from our women . 
A man without a woman is a pistol without a trigger it is the woman that sets the man off . 
Well , Enjolras has no woman . 
He is not in love , and yet he manages to be intrepid . 
It is a thing unheard of that a man should be as cold as ice and as bold as fire . 
Enjolras did not appear to be listening , but had any one been near him , that person would have heard him mutter in a low voice Patria . 
Bossuet was still laughing when Courfeyrac exclaimed News ! And assuming the tone of an usher making an announcement , he added My name is Eight Pounder . 
In fact , a new personage had entered on the scene . 
This was a second piece of ordnance . 
The artillery men rapidly performed their manoeuvres in force and placed this second piece in line with the first . 
Another cannonade was audible at some distance . 
The four cannons echoed each other mournfully . 
The barking of these sombre dogs of war replied to each other . 
One of the two pieces which was now battering the barricade on the Rue de la Chanvrerie was firing grape shot , the other balls . 
It is absolutely necessary that the inconvenience of those guns should be diminished , said Enjolras , and he shouted Fire on the artillery men ! All were ready . 
Those who were left standing continued to serve the pieces with severe tranquillity , but the fire had slackened . 
Things are going well now , said Bossuet to Enjolras . 
Enjolras shook his head and replied Another quarter of an hour of this success , and there will not be any cartridges left in the barricade . 
It appears that Gavroche overheard this remark . 
CHAPTER XV GAVROCHE OUTSIDE Courfeyrac suddenly caught sight of some one at the base of the barricade , outside in the street , amid the bullets . 
What are you doing there ? asked Courfeyrac . 
Gavroche raised his face I'm filling my basket , citizen . 
Don't you see the grape shot ? Gavroche replied Well , it is raining . 
What then ? Courfeyrac shouted Come in ! Instanter , said Gavroche . 
And with a single bound he plunged into the street . 
It will be remembered that Fannicot's company had left behind it a trail of bodies . 
Twenty corpses lay scattered here and there on the pavement , through the whole length of the street . 
Twenty cartouches for Gavroche meant a provision of cartridges for the barricade . 
The smoke in the street was like a fog . 
Whoever has beheld a cloud which has fallen into a mountain gorge between two peaked escarpments can imagine this smoke rendered denser and thicker by two gloomy rows of lofty houses . 
It rose gradually and was incessantly renewed hence a twilight which made even the broad daylight turn pale . 
The combatants could hardly see each other from one end of the street to the other , short as it was . 
This obscurity , which had probably been desired and calculated on by the commanders who were to direct the assault on the barricade , was useful to Gavroche . 
Beneath the folds of this veil of smoke , and thanks to his small size , he could advance tolerably far into the street without being seen . 
He rifled the first seven or eight cartridge boxes without much danger . 
They did not dare to shout to him to return from the barricade , which was quite near , for fear of attracting attention to him . 
On one body , that of a corporal , he found a powder flask . 
For thirst , said he , putting it in his pocket . 
By dint of advancing , he reached a point where the fog of the fusillade became transparent . 
At the moment when Gavroche was relieving a sergeant , who was lying near a stone door post , of his cartridges , a bullet struck the body . 
They are killing my dead men for me . 
A second bullet struck a spark from the pavement beside him . 
A third overturned his basket . 
Gavroche looked and saw that this came from the men of the banlieue . 
'Tis the fault of Rousseau . 
There a fourth bullet missed him , again . 
'Tis the fault of Rousseau . 
A fifth bullet only succeeded in drawing from him a third couplet . 
'Tis the fault of Rousseau . 
Thus it went on for some time . 
It was a charming and terrible sight . 
Gavroche , though shot at , was teasing the fusillade . 
He had the air of being greatly diverted . 
It was the sparrow pecking at the sportsmen . 
To each discharge he retorted with a couplet . 
They aimed at him constantly , and always missed him . 
The National Guardsmen and the soldiers laughed as they took aim at him . 
The insurgents , panting with anxiety , followed him with their eyes . 
The barricade trembled he sang . 
He was not a child , he was not a man he was a strange gamin fairy . 
He might have been called the invulnerable dwarf of the fray . 
The bullets flew after him , he was more nimble than they . 
He played a fearful game of hide and seek with death every time that the flat nosed face of the spectre approached , the urchin administered to it a fillip . 
One bullet , however , better aimed or more treacherous than the rest , finally struck the will o' the wisp of a child . 
Gavroche was seen to stagger , then he sank to the earth . 
A second bullet from the same marksman stopped him short . 
This time he fell face downward on the pavement , and moved no more . 
This grand little soul had taken its flight . 
One might have been seven years old , the other five . 
The smaller of them said I am very hungry . 
The elder , who was already somewhat of a protector , was leading his brother with his left hand and in his right he carried a small stick . 
They were alone in the garden . 
The garden was deserted , the gates had been closed by order of the police , on account of the insurrection . 
The troops who had been bivouacking there had departed for the exigencies of combat . 
To be astray and to seem free is to be lost . 
These poor little creatures were , in fact , lost . 
These two children were the same over whom Gavroche had been put to some trouble , as the reader will recollect . 
Children of the Thenardiers , leased out to Magnon , attributed to M. Gillenormand , and now leaves fallen from all these rootless branches , and swept over the ground by the wind . 
Their clothing , which had been clean in Magnon's day , and which had served her as a prospectus with M. Gillenormand , had been converted into rags . 
Henceforth these beings belonged to the statistics as Abandoned children , whom the police take note of , collect , mislay and find again on the pavements of Paris . 
It required the disturbance of a day like that to account for these miserable little creatures being in that garden . 
If the superintendents had caught sight of them , they would have driven such rags forth . 
Poor little things do not enter public gardens still , people should reflect that , as children , they have a right to flowers . 
These children were there , thanks to the locked gates . 
They were there contrary to the regulations . 
They had slipped into the garden and there they remained . 
It had rained the night before , and even a little in the morning . 
But in June , showers do not count for much . 
An hour after a storm , it can hardly be seen that the beautiful blonde day has wept . 
The earth , in summer , is as quickly dried as the cheek of a child . 
At that period of the solstice , the light of full noonday is , so to speak , poignant . 
It applies itself to the earth , and superposes itself with a sort of suction . 
One would say that the sun was thirsty . 
A shower is but a glass of water a rainstorm is instantly drunk up . 
In the morning everything was dripping , in the afternoon everything is powdered over . 
Nothing is so worthy of admiration as foliage washed by the rain and wiped by the rays of sunlight it is warm freshness . 
The gardens and meadows , having water at their roots , and sun in their flowers , become perfuming pans of incense , and smoke with all their odors at once . 
Everything smiles , sings and offers itself . 
The springtime is a provisional paradise , the sun helps man to have patience . 
Strange to say , the infinite suffices them . 
That great need of man , the finite , which admits of embrace , they ignore . 
The finite which admits of progress and sublime toil , they do not think about . 
The indefinite , which is born from the human and divine combination of the infinite and the finite , escapes them . 
Provided that they are face to face with immensity , they smile . 
Joy never , ecstasy forever . 
Their life lies in surrendering their personality in contemplation . 
The history of humanity is for them only a detailed plan . 
The zodiac thrives with them to such a point that it prevents their seeing the weeping child . 
This is a family of minds which are , at once , great and petty . 
Horace was one of them so was Goethe . 
They have no suspicion that they are to be pitied . 
He who does not weep does not see . 
The indifference of these thinkers , is , according to some , a superior philosophy . 
That may be but in this superiority there is some infirmity . 
One may be immortal and yet limp witness Vulcan . 
One may be more than man and less than man . 
There is incomplete immensity in nature . 
On the th of June , , about eleven o'clock in the morning , the Luxembourg , solitary and depopulated , was charming . 
The quincunxes and flower beds shed forth balm and dazzling beauty into the sunlight . 
The branches , wild with the brilliant glow of midday , seemed endeavoring to embrace . 
In the sycamores there was an uproar of linnets , sparrows triumphed , woodpeckers climbed along the chestnut trees , administering little pecks on the bark . 
The flower beds accepted the legitimate royalty of the lilies the most august of perfumes is that which emanates from whiteness . 
The peppery odor of the carnations was perceptible . 
The old crows of Marie de Medici were amorous in the tall trees . 
The sun gilded , empurpled , set fire to and lighted up the tulips , which are nothing but all the varieties of flame made into flowers . 
All around the banks of tulips the bees , the sparks of these flame flowers , hummed . 
He who was there aspired to happiness life smelled good all nature exhaled candor , help , assistance , paternity , caress , dawn . 
The thoughts which fell from heaven were as sweet as the tiny hand of a baby when one kisses it . 
The statues under the trees , white and nude , had robes of shadow pierced with light these goddesses were all tattered with sunlight rays hung from them on all sides . 
Around the great fountain , the earth was already dried up to the point of being burnt . 
There was sufficient breeze to raise little insurrections of dust here and there . 
A few yellow leaves , left over from the autumn , chased each other merrily , and seemed to be playing tricks on each other . 
This abundance of light had something indescribably reassuring about it . 
Thanks to the sand , there was not a speck of mud thanks to the rain , there was not a grain of ashes . 
The clumps of blossoms had just been bathed every sort of velvet , satin , gold and varnish , which springs from the earth in the form of flowers , was irreproachable . 
The grand silence of happy nature filled the garden . 
A celestial silence that is compatible with a thousand sorts of music , the cooing of nests , the buzzing of swarms , the flutterings of the breeze . 
The plantain trees were getting their new skins . 
The breeze hollowed out undulations in the magnificent enormity of the chestnut trees . 
A veteran from the neighboring barracks , who was gazing through the fence , said Here is the Spring presenting arms and in full uniform . 
God was serving the universal repast . 
Each creature had his pasture or his mess . 
They ate each other somewhat , it is true , which is the misery of evil mixed with good but not a beast of them all had an empty stomach . 
Smoke hung over the roofs in the direction of the Halles . 
A bell , which had the air of an appeal , was ringing in the distance . 
These children did not appear to notice these noises . 
The little one repeated from time to time I am hungry . 
Almost at the same instant with the children , another couple approached the great basin . 
They consisted of a goodman , about fifty years of age , who was leading by the hand a little fellow of six . 
No doubt , a father and his son . 
The little man of six had a big brioche . 
This father and son came from one of these houses , no doubt . 
The two poor little creatures watched that gentleman approaching , and hid themselves a little more thoroughly . 
The same person , perhaps , whom Marius had one day heard , through his love fever , near the same grand basin , counselling his son to avoid excesses . 
He had an affable and haughty air , and a mouth which was always smiling , since it did not shut . 
This mechanical smile , produced by too much jaw and too little skin , shows the teeth rather than the soul . 
The child , with his brioche , which he had bitten into but had not finished eating , seemed satiated . 
The child was dressed as a National Guardsman , owing to the insurrection , and the father had remained clad as a bourgeois out of prudence . 
Father and son halted near the fountain where two swans were sporting . 
This bourgeois appeared to cherish a special admiration for the swans . 
He resembled them in this sense , that he walked like them . 
For the moment , the swans were swimming , which is their principal talent , and they were superb . 
If the two poor little beings had listened and if they had been of an age to understand , they might have gathered the words of this grave man . 
The father was saying to his son The sage lives content with little . 
Look at me , my son . 
I do not love pomp . 
I am never seen in clothes decked with gold lace and stones I leave that false splendor to badly organized souls . 
Here the deep shouts which proceeded from the direction of the Halles burst out with fresh force of bell and uproar . 
What is that ? inquired the child . 
The father replied It is the Saturnalia . 
All at once , he caught sight of the two little ragged boys behind the green swan hutch . 
There is the beginning , said he . 
And , after a pause , he added Anarchy is entering this garden . 
In the meanwhile , his son took a bite of his brioche , spit it out , and , suddenly burst out crying . 
What are you crying about ? demanded his father . 
I am not hungry any more , said the child . 
The father's smile became more accentuated . 
One does not need to be hungry in order to eat a cake . 
Don't you want any more of it ? No. The father pointed to the swans . 
Throw it to those palmipeds . 
A person may not want any more of his cake but that is no reason for giving it away . 
The father went on Be humane . 
You must have compassion on animals . 
And , taking the cake from his son , he flung it into the basin . 
The cake fell very near the edge . 
The swans were far away , in the centre of the basin , and busy with some prey . 
They had seen neither the bourgeois nor the brioche . 
They perceived something floating , steered for the edge like ships , as they are , and slowly directed their course toward the brioche , with the stupid majesty which befits white creatures . 
The swans cygnes understand signs signes , said the bourgeois , delighted to make a jest . 
At that moment , the distant tumult of the city underwent another sudden increase . 
This time it was sinister . 
There are some gusts of wind which speak more distinctly than others . 
The one which was blowing at that moment brought clearly defined drum beats , clamors , platoon firing , and the dismal replies of the tocsin and the cannon . 
This coincided with a black cloud which suddenly veiled the sun . 
The swans had not yet reached the brioche . 
Let us return home , said the father , they are attacking the Tuileries . 
He grasped his son's hand again . 
Then he continued From the Tuileries to the Luxembourg , there is but the distance which separates Royalty from the peerage that is not far . 
Shots will soon rain down . 
He glanced at the cloud . 
Perhaps it is rain itself that is about to shower down the sky is joining in the younger branch is condemned . 
Let us return home quickly . 
I should like to see the swans eat the brioche , said the child . 
The father replied That would be imprudent . 
And he led his little bourgeois away . 
The son , regretting the swans , turned his head back toward the basin until a corner of the quincunxes concealed it from him . 
In the meanwhile , the two little waifs had approached the brioche at the same time as the swans . 
It was floating on the water . 
The smaller of them stared at the cake , the elder gazed after the retreating bourgeois . 
Father and son entered the labyrinth of walks which leads to the grand flight of steps near the clump of trees on the side of the Rue Madame . 
Just as the swans came up , the stick touched the cake . 
The child gave it a brisk rap , drew in the brioche , frightened away the swans , seized the cake , and sprang to his feet . 
The cake was wet but they were hungry and thirsty . 
CHAPTER XVII MORTUUS PATER FILIUM MORITURUM EXPECTAT Marius dashed out of the barricade , Combeferre followed him . 
But he was too late . 
Combeferre brought back the basket of cartridges Marius bore the child . 
When Marius re entered the redoubt with Gavroche in his arms , his face , like the child , was inundated with blood . 
At the moment when he had stooped to lift Gavroche , a bullet had grazed his head he had not noticed it . 
Courfeyrac untied his cravat and with it bandaged Marius' brow . 
They laid Gavroche on the same table with Mabeuf , and spread over the two corpses the black shawl . 
There was enough of it for both the old man and the child . 
Combeferre distributed the cartridges from the basket which he had brought in . 
This gave each man fifteen rounds to fire . 
Jean Valjean was still in the same place , motionless on his stone post . 
When Combeferre offered him his fifteen cartridges , he shook his head . 
Here's a rare eccentric , said Combeferre in a low voice to Enjolras . 
He finds a way of not fighting in this barricade . 
Which does not prevent him from defending it , responded Enjolras . 
Heroism has its originals , resumed Combeferre . 
And Courfeyrac , who had overheard , added He is another sort from Father Mabeuf . 
One thing which must be noted is , that the fire which was battering the barricade hardly disturbed the interior . 
Those who have never traversed the whirlwind of this sort of war can form no idea of the singular moments of tranquillity mingled with these convulsions . 
Men go and come , they talk , they jest , they lounge . 
Some one whom we know heard a combatant say to him in the midst of the grape shot We are here as at a bachelor breakfast . 
The redoubt of the Rue de la Chanvrerie , we repeat , seemed very calm within . 
All mutations and all phases had been , or were about to be , exhausted . 
The position , from critical , had become menacing , and , from menacing , was probably about to become desperate . 
In proportion as the situation grew gloomy , the glow of heroism empurpled the barricade more and more . 
Enjolras , who was grave , dominated it , in the attitude of a young Spartan sacrificing his naked sword to the sombre genius , Epidotas . 
Jean Valjean stared silently at the wall opposite him . 
An artisan was fastening Mother Hucheloup's big straw hat on his head with a string , for fear of sun stroke , as he said . 
The young men from the Cougourde d'Aix were chatting merrily among themselves , as though eager to speak patois for the last time . 
Joly , who had taken Widow Hucheloup's mirror from the wall , was examining his tongue in it . 
Some combatants , having discovered a few crusts of rather mouldy bread , in a drawer , were eagerly devouring them . 
Marius was disturbed with regard to what his father was about to say to him . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE VULTURE BECOME PREY We must insist upon one psychological fact peculiar to barricades . 
Nothing which is characteristic of that surprising war of the streets should be omitted . 
Whatever may have been the singular inward tranquillity which we have just mentioned , the barricade , for those who are inside it , remains , none the less , a vision . 
On emerging from a barricade , one no longer knows what one has seen there . 
One has been terrible , but one knows it not . 
One has been surrounded with conflicting ideas which had human faces one's head has been in the light of the future . 
There were corpses lying prone there , and phantoms standing erect . 
The hours were colossal and seemed hours of eternity . 
One has lived in death . 
One fancied that one had touched the sinister ooze of unknown depths one stares at something red on one's finger nails . 
One no longer remembers anything . 
Let us return to the Rue de la Chanvrerie . 
All at once , between two discharges , the distant sound of a clock striking the hour became audible . 
It is midday , said Combeferre . 
Half the men to their guns , the other half to the paving stones . 
There is not a minute to be lost . 
A squad of sappers and miners , axe on shoulder , had just made their appearance in battle array at the end of the street . 
They were , evidently , on the brink of that moment which M. Clermont Tonnerre , in , called the tug of war . 
Enjolras' order was executed with the correct haste which is peculiar to ships and barricades , the only two scenes of combat where escape is impossible . 
A few loop holes carefully planned by Feuilly , the principal architect , allowed of the passage of the gun barrels . 
This armament of the windows could be effected all the more easily since the firing of grape shot had ceased . 
The two cannons were now discharging ball against the centre of the barrier in order to make a hole there , and , if possible , a breach for the assault . 
When the stones destined to the final defence were in place , Enjolras had the bottles which he had set under the table where Mabeuf lay , carried to the first floor . 
Who is to drink that ? Bossuet asked him . 
Then they barricaded the window below , and held in readiness the iron cross bars which served to secure the door of the wine shop at night . 
The barricade was the rampart , the wine shop was the dungeon . 
With the stones which remained they stopped up the outlet . 
The preparations for attack are always made with a certain methodical deliberation after which , the lightning strikes . 
This deliberation permitted Enjolras to take a review of everything and to perfect everything . 
He felt that , since such men were to die , their death ought to be a masterpiece . 
He said to Marius We are the two leaders . 
I will give the last orders inside . 
Do you remain outside and observe . 
Marius posted himself on the lookout upon the crest of the barricade . 
Enjolras had the door of the kitchen , which was the ambulance , as the reader will remember , nailed up . 
No splashing of the wounded , he said . 
He issued his final orders in the tap room in a curt , but profoundly tranquil tone Feuilly listened and replied in the name of all . 
On the first floor , hold your axes in readiness to cut the staircase . 
Have you them ? Yes , said Feuilly . 
How many ? Two axes and a pole axe . 
There are now twenty six combatants of us on foot . 
How many guns are there ? Thirty four . 
Keep those eight guns loaded like the rest and at hand . 
Swords and pistols in your belts . 
Twenty men to the barricade . 
Six ambushed in the attic windows , and at the window on the first floor to fire on the assailants through the loop holes in the stones . 
Let not a single worker remain inactive here . 
Presently , when the drum beats the assault , let the twenty below stairs rush to the barricade . 
The first to arrive will have the best places . 
These arrangements made , he turned to Javert and said I am not forgetting you . 
And , laying a pistol on the table , he added The last man to leave this room will smash the skull of this spy . 
Here ? inquired a voice . 
No , let us not mix their corpses with our own . 
The little barricade of the Mondetour lane can be scaled . 
It is only four feet high . 
The man is well pinioned . 
He shall be taken thither and put to death . 
There was some one who was more impassive at that moment than Enjolras , it was Javert . 
Here Jean Valjean made his appearance . 
He had been lost among the group of insurgents . 
He stepped forth and said to Enjolras You are the commander ? Yes . 
You thanked me a while ago . 
In the name of the Republic . 
The barricade has two saviors , Marius Pontmercy and yourself . 
Do you think that I deserve a recompense ? Certainly . 
Well , I request one . 
What is it ? That I may blow that man's brains out . 
Javert raised his head , saw Jean Valjean , made an almost imperceptible movement , and said That is just . 
As for Enjolras , he had begun to re load his rifle he cut his eyes about him No objections . 
And he turned to Jean Valjean Take the spy . 
Jean Valjean did , in fact , take possession of Javert , by seating himself on the end of the table . 
He seized the pistol , and a faint click announced that he had cocked it . 
Almost at the same moment , a blast of trumpets became audible . 
Take care ! shouted Marius from the top of the barricade . 
All out ! shouted Enjolras . 
After this he made him a sign to rise . 
Javert obeyed with that indefinable smile in which the supremacy of enchained authority is condensed . 
Jean Valjean had the pistol in his hand . 
In this manner they crossed the inner trapezium of the barricade . 
The insurgents , all intent on the attack , which was imminent , had their backs turned to these two . 
Marius alone , stationed on one side , at the extreme left of the barricade , saw them pass . 
This group of victim and executioner was illuminated by the sepulchral light which he bore in his own soul . 
Jean Valjean with some difficulty , but without relaxing his hold for a single instant , made Javert , pinioned as he was , scale the little entrenchment in the Mondetour lane . 
When they had crossed this barrier , they found themselves alone in the lane . 
Among the heap they could distinguish a livid face , streaming hair , a pierced hand and the half nude breast of a woman . 
The corner of the houses hid them from the insurgents . 
The corpses carried away from the barricade formed a terrible pile a few paces distant . 
Javert gazed askance at this body , and , profoundly calm , said in a low tone It strikes me that I know that girl . 
Then he turned to Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean thrust the pistol under his arm and fixed on Javert a look which it required no words to interpret Javert , it is I. Javert replied Take your revenge . 
Jean Valjean drew from his pocket a knife , and opened it . 
A clasp knife ! exclaimed Javert , you are right . 
Javert was not easily astonished . 
Still , master of himself though he was , he could not repress a start . 
He remained open mouthed and motionless . 
Jean Valjean continued I do not think that I shall escape from this place . 
But if , by chance , I do , I live , under the name of Fauchelevent , in the Rue de l'Homme Arme , No. . 
Javert snarled like a tiger , which made him half open one corner of his mouth , and he muttered between his teeth Have a care . 
Go , said Jean Valjean . 
Javert began again Thou saidst Fauchelevent , Rue de l'Homme Arme ? Number . 
Javert repeated in a low voice Number . 
Jean Valjean followed him with his eyes A few minutes later , Javert turned round and shouted to Jean Valjean You annoy me . 
Javert himself did not notice that he no longer addressed Jean Valjean as thou . 
Be off with you , said Jean Valjean . 
A moment later he turned the corner of the Rue des Precheurs . 
When Javert had disappeared , Jean Valjean fired his pistol in the air . 
Then he returned to the barricade and said It is done . 
In the meanwhile , this is what had taken place . 
When he beheld him in broad daylight , striding over the barricade in order to proceed to his death , he recognized him . 
Something suddenly recurred to his mind . 
This recollection was misty and troubled , however , like all his ideas . 
But , in the first place , he must know whether this was Javert . 
Do you know his name ? Of course . 
What is it ? Javert . 
Marius sprang to his feet . 
At that moment , they heard the report of the pistol . 
Jean Valjean re appeared and cried It is done . 
A gloomy chill traversed Marius' heart . 
CHAPTER XX THE DEAD ARE IN THE RIGHT AND THE LIVING ARE NOT IN THE WRONG The death agony of the barricade was about to begin . 
For , since the preceding evening , the two rows of houses in the Rue de la Chanvrerie had become two walls ferocious walls , doors closed , windows closed , shutters closed . 
A people cannot be forced , through surprise , to walk more quickly than it chooses . 
Woe to whomsoever tries to force its hand ! A people does not let itself go at random . 
Then it abandons the insurrection to itself . 
The insurgents become noxious , infected with the plague . 
A house is an escarpment , a door is a refusal , a facade is a wall . 
This wall hears , sees and will not . 
It might open and save you . 
No. This wall is a judge . 
It gazes at you and condemns you . 
What dismal things are closed houses . 
They seem dead , they are living . 
Life which is , as it were , suspended there , persists there . 
No one has gone out of them for four and twenty hours , but no one is missing from them . 
Sometimes , even , and this has been actually seen , fear turns to passion fright may change into fury , as prudence does into rage hence this wise saying The enraged moderates . 
There are outbursts of supreme terror , whence springs wrath like a mournful smoke . 
What do these people want ? What have they come there to do ? Let them get out of the scrape . 
So much the worse for them . 
They are only getting what they deserve . 
It does not concern us . 
Here is our poor street all riddled with balls . 
They are a pack of rascals . 
Above all things , don't open the door . 
And the house assumes the air of a tomb . 
Whom shall he reproach ? No one and every one . 
The incomplete times in which we live . 
It is always at its own risk and peril that Utopia is converted into revolution , and from philosophical protest becomes an armed protest , and from Minerva turns to Pallas . 
The Utopia which grows impatient and becomes revolt knows what awaits it it almost always comes too soon . 
Then it becomes resigned , and stoically accepts catastrophe in lieu of triumph . 
It serves those who deny it without complaint , even excusing them , and even disculpates them , and its magnanimity consists in consenting to abandonment . 
It is indomitable in the face of obstacles and gentle towards ingratitude . 
Is this ingratitude , however ? Yes , from the point of view of the human race . 
No , from the point of view of the individual . 
Progress is man's mode of existence . 
The general life of the human race is called Progress , the collective stride of the human race is called Progress . 
He who despairs is in the wrong . 
Progress infallibly awakes , and , in short , we may say that it marches on , even when it is asleep , for it has increased in size . 
When we behold it erect once more , we find it taller . 
To be always peaceful does not depend on progress any more than it does on the stream erect no barriers , cast in no boulders obstacles make water froth and humanity boil . 
Hence arise troubles but after these troubles , we recognize the fact that ground has been gained . 
Until order , which is nothing else than universal peace , has been established , until harmony and unity reign , progress will have revolutions as its halting places . 
What , then , is progress ? We have just enunciated it the permanent life of the peoples . 
Now , it sometimes happens , that the momentary life of individuals offers resistance to the eternal life of the human race . 
I exist , murmurs that some one whose name is All . 
Hence , at certain hours , a profound cold broods over the magnanimous vanguard of the human race . 
Utopia , moreover , we must admit , quits its radiant sphere when it makes war . 
It , the truth of to morrow , borrows its mode of procedure , battle , from the lie of yesterday . 
It , the future , behaves like the past . 
It , pure idea , becomes a deed of violence . 
The Utopia , insurrection , fights with the old military code in its fist it shoots spies , it executes traitors it suppresses living beings and flings them into unknown darkness . 
It makes use of death , a serious matter . 
It seems as though Utopia had no longer any faith in radiance , its irresistible and incorruptible force . 
It strikes with the sword . 
Now , no sword is simple . 
Every blade has two edges he who wounds with the one is wounded with the other . 
Even when they miscarry , they are worthy of veneration and it is , perhaps , in failure , that they possess the most majesty . 
Victory , when it is in accord with progress , merits the applause of the people but a heroic defeat merits their tender compassion . 
The one is magnificent , the other sublime . 
For our own part , we prefer martyrdom to success . 
John Brown is greater than Washington , and Pisacane is greater than Garibaldi . 
It certainly is necessary that some one should take the part of the vanquished . 
We are unjust towards these great men who attempt the future , when they fail . 
Revolutionists are accused of sowing fear abroad . 
Every barricade seems a crime . 
Their theories are incriminated , their aim suspected , their ulterior motive is feared , their conscience denounced . 
People shout to them You are tearing up the pavements of hell ! They might reply That is because our barricade is made of good intentions . 
The best thing , assuredly , is the pacific solution . 
In short , let us agree that when we behold the pavement , we think of the bear , and it is a good will which renders society uneasy . 
But it depends on society to save itself , it is to its own good will that we make our appeal . 
No violent remedy is necessary . 
To study evil amiably , to prove its existence , then to cure it . 
It is to this that we invite it . 
At the appointed hour , with as much disinterestedness as an actor who answers to his cue , in obedience to the divine stage manager , they enter the tomb . 
The French revolution is an act of God . 
An insurrection which breaks out , is an idea which is passing its examination before the people . 
If the people lets fall a black ball , the idea is dried fruit the insurrection is a mere skirmish . 
Waging war at every summons and every time that Utopia desires it , is not the thing for the peoples . 
Nations have not always and at every hour the temperament of heroes and martyrs . 
Because , and this is a noble thing , it is always for the ideal , and for the ideal alone , that those who sacrifice themselves do thus sacrifice themselves . 
An insurrection is an enthusiasm . 
Enthusiasm may wax wroth hence the appeal to arms . 
But every insurrection , which aims at a government or a regime , aims higher . 
The majority of them , when talking freely , did justice to this king who stood midway between monarchy and revolution no one hated him . 
Paris without a king has as result the world without despots . 
This is the manner in which they reasoned . 
Their aim was distant no doubt , vague perhaps , and it retreated in the face of their efforts but it was great . 
And we sacrifice ourselves for these visions , which are almost always illusions for the sacrificed , but illusions with which , after all , the whole of human certainty is mingled . 
We throw ourselves into these tragic affairs and become intoxicated with that which we are about to do . 
Who knows ? We may succeed . 
We do not think of Don Quixote but of Leonidas . 
These passages of arms for the sake of progress often suffer shipwreck , and we have just explained why . 
The crowd is restive in the presence of the impulses of paladins . 
Heavy masses , the multitudes which are fragile because of their very weight , fear adventures and there is a touch of adventure in the ideal . 
Moreover , and we must not forget this , interests which are not very friendly to the ideal and the sentimental are in the way . 
Sometimes the stomach paralyzes the heart . 
The grandeur and beauty of France lies in this , that she takes less from the stomach than other nations she more easily knots the rope about her loins . 
She is the first awake , the last asleep . 
This arises from the fact that she is an artist . 
The ideal is nothing but the culminating point of logic , the same as the beautiful is nothing but the summit of the true . 
Artistic peoples are also consistent peoples . 
To love beauty is to see the light . 
Divine , illuminating nations of scouts ! Vitaelampada tradunt . 
It is an admirable thing that the poetry of a people is the element of its progress . 
The amount of civilization is measured by the quantity of imagination . 
Only , a civilizing people should remain a manly people . 
Corinth , yes Sybaris , no . 
Whoever becomes effeminate makes himself a bastard . 
He must be neither a dilettante nor a virtuoso but he must be artistic . 
In the matter of civilization , he must not refine , but he must sublime . 
On this condition , one gives to the human race the pattern of the ideal . 
The modern ideal has its type in art , and its means is science . 
It is through science that it will realize that august vision of the poets , the socially beautiful . 
Art , which is the conqueror , should have for support science , which is the walker the solidity of the creature which is ridden is of importance . 
The modern spirit is the genius of Greece with the genius of India as its vehicle Alexander on the elephant . 
Races which are petrified in dogma or demoralized by lucre are unfit to guide civilization . 
Genuflection before the idol or before money wastes away the muscles which walk and the will which advances . 
Babylon has no ideal Carthage has no ideal . 
Athens and Rome have and keep , throughout all the nocturnal darkness of the centuries , halos of civilization . 
France is in the same quality of race as Greece and Italy . 
She is Athenian in the matter of beauty , and Roman in her greatness . 
Moreover , she is good . 
Oftener than is the case with other races , is she in the humor for self devotion and sacrifice . 
Only , this humor seizes upon her , and again abandons her . 
And therein lies the great peril for those who run when she desires only to walk , or who walk on when she desires to halt . 
What is to be done in such a case ? The giantess plays at being a dwarf immense France has her freaks of pettiness . 
To this there is nothing to say . 
Peoples , like planets , possess the right to an eclipse . 
And all is well , provided that the light returns and that the eclipse does not degenerate into night . 
Dawn and resurrection are synonymous . 
The reappearance of the light is identical with the persistence of the I . 
Let us state these facts calmly . 
Death on the barricade or the tomb in exile , is an acceptable occasion for devotion . 
The real name of devotion is disinterestedness . 
One must not push too far in descent under pretext of a return to reason . 
Matter exists , the minute exists , interest exists , the stomach exists but the stomach must not be the sole wisdom . 
The life of the moment has its rights , we admit , but permanent life has its rights also . 
Alas ! the fact that one is mounted does not preclude a fall . 
One word more before returning to our subject , the conflict . 
A battle like the one which we are engaged in describing is nothing else than a convulsion towards the ideal . 
Progress trammelled is sickly , and is subject to these tragic epilepsies . 
With that malady of progress , civil war , we have been obliged to come in contact in our passage . 
This is one of the fatal phases , at once act and entr'acte of that drama whose pivot is a social condemnation , and whose veritable title is Progress . 
Point of departure matter point of arrival the soul . 
The hydra at the beginning , the angel at the end . 
CHAPTER XXI THE HEROES All at once , the drum beat the charge . 
The attack was a hurricane . 
On the evening before , in the darkness , the barricade had been approached silently , as by a boa . 
The barricade once scaled had a mane of lightning flashes . 
The column , forced to retreat , remained massed in the street , unprotected but terrible , and replied to the redoubt with a terrible discharge of musketry . 
Any one who has seen fireworks will recall the sheaf formed of interlacing lightnings which is called a bouquet . 
The barricade was underneath it . 
On both sides , the resolution was equal . 
The bravery exhibited there was almost barbarous and was complicated with a sort of heroic ferocity which began by the sacrifice of self . 
This was the epoch when a National Guardsman fought like a Zouave . 
The troop wished to make an end of it , insurrection was desirous of fighting . 
The acceptance of the death agony in the flower of youth and in the flush of health turns intrepidity into frenzy . 
In this fray , each one underwent the broadening growth of the death hour . 
The street was strewn with corpses . 
The barricade had Enjolras at one of its extremities and Marius at the other . 
He made himself a target . 
He stood with more than half his body above the breastworks . 
There is no more violent prodigal than the avaricious man who takes the bit in his teeth there is no man more terrible in action than a dreamer . 
Marius was formidable and pensive . 
In battle he was as in a dream . 
One would have pronounced him a phantom engaged in firing a gun . 
The insurgents' cartridges were giving out but not their sarcasms . 
In this whirlwind of the sepulchre in which they stood , they laughed . 
What have you done with your hat ? Bossuet asked him . 
Courfeyrac replied They have finally taken it away from me with cannon balls . 
Or they uttered haughty comments . 
There are people who observe the rules of honor as one observes the stars , from a great distance . 
The interior of the barricade was so strewn with torn cartridges that one would have said that there had been a snowstorm . 
The assailants had numbers in their favor the insurgents had position . 
They were at the top of a wall , and they thundered point blank upon the soldiers tripping over the dead and wounded and entangled in the escarpment . 
This barricade , constructed as it was and admirably buttressed , was really one of those situations where a handful of men hold a legion in check . 
The horror of the situation kept increasing . 
Then there burst forth on that heap of paving stones , in that Rue de la Chanvrerie , a battle worthy of a wall of Troy . 
The barricade was ten times attacked , approached , assailed , scaled , and never captured . 
In order to form an idea of this struggle , it is necessary to imagine fire set to a throng of terrible courages , and then to gaze at the conflagration . 
It was not a combat , it was the interior of a furnace there mouths breathed the flame there countenances were extraordinary . 
The human form seemed impossible there , the combatants flamed forth there , and it was formidable to behold the going and coming in that red glow of those salamanders of the fray . 
The successive and simultaneous scenes of this grand slaughter we renounce all attempts at depicting . 
The epic alone has the right to fill twelve thousand verses with a battle . 
One would have pronounced this that hell of Brahmanism , the most redoubtable of the seventeen abysses , which the Veda calls the Forest of Swords . 
They were one against sixty . 
The facade of Corinthe , half demolished , was hideous . 
The window , tattooed with grape shot , had lost glass and frame and was nothing now but a shapeless hole , tumultuously blocked with paving stones . 
Enjolras alone was not struck . 
When he had no longer any weapon , he reached out his hands to right and left and an insurgent thrust some arm or other into his fist . 
All he had left was the stumps of four swords one more than Francois I. at Marignan . 
Meganthios dies under the blows of Euripylus' pike . 
Agamemnon , king of the heroes , flings to earth Elatos , born in the rocky city which is laved by the sounding river Satnois . 
The exterior slope presented an inclined plane to the attack . 
A final assault was there attempted , and this assault succeeded . 
This time , it was decisive . 
The group of insurgents who were defending the centre retreated in confusion . 
Then the gloomy love of life awoke once more in some of them . 
Many , finding themselves under the muzzles of this forest of guns , did not wish to die . 
This is a moment when the instinct of self preservation emits howls , when the beast re appears in men . 
They were hemmed in by the lofty , six story house which formed the background of their redoubt . 
This house might prove their salvation . 
The building was barricaded , and walled , as it were , from top to bottom . 
Behind this house , there were streets , possible flight , space . 
They set to knocking at that door with the butts of their guns , and with kicks , shouting , calling , entreating , wringing their hands . 
From the little window on the third floor , the head of the dead man gazed down upon them . 
But Enjolras and Marius , and the seven or eight rallied about them , sprang forward and protected them . 
Enjolras had shouted to the soldiers Don't advance ! and as an officer had not obeyed , Enjolras had killed the officer . 
He shouted to the desperate men There is but one door open this one . 
And shielding them with his body , and facing an entire battalion alone , he made them pass in behind him . 
A shot had just broken his collar bone , he felt that he was fainting and falling . 
Enjolras , not seeing Marius among those who had taken refuge in the wine shop , had the same idea . 
But they had reached a moment when each man has not the time to meditate on his own death . 
The assailants were grouped about that door . 
The siege of the wine shop was now beginning . 
The soldiers , we will observe , were full of wrath . 
The death of the artillery sergeant had enraged them , and then , a still more melancholy circumstance . 
When the door was barricaded , Enjolras said to the others Let us sell our lives dearly . 
Then he approached the table on which lay Mabeuf and Gavroche . 
Beneath the black cloth two straight and rigid forms were visible , one large , the other small , and the two faces were vaguely outlined beneath the cold folds of the shroud . 
A hand projected from beneath the winding sheet and hung near the floor . 
It was that of the old man . 
Enjolras bent down and kissed that venerable hand , just as he had kissed his brow on the preceding evening . 
These were the only two kisses which he had bestowed in the course of his life . 
Let us abridge the tale . 
The barricade had fought like a gate of Thebes the wine shop fought like a house of Saragossa . 
No flag of truce possible . 
Men are willing to die , provided their opponent will kill them . 
When Suchet says Capitulate , Palafox replies After the war with cannon , the war with knives . 
It was the last of their cartridges . 
They were bottles of aquafortis . 
We relate these gloomy incidents of carnage as they occurred . 
The besieged man , alas ! converts everything into a weapon . 
Greek fire did not disgrace Archimedes , boiling pitch did not disgrace Bayard . 
All war is a thing of terror , and there is no choice in it . 
The musketry of the besiegers , though confined and embarrassed by being directed from below upwards , was deadly . 
Words are lacking to express horror when it has reached this pitch . 
There were no longer men in this conflict , which was now infernal . 
They were no longer giants matched with colossi . 
It resembled Milton and Dante rather than Homer . 
Demons attacked , spectres resisted . 
It was heroism become monstrous . 
There they found only one man still on his feet , Enjolras . 
Without cartridges , without sword , he had nothing in his hand now but the barrel of his gun whose stock he had broken over the head of those who were entering . 
A cry arose He is the leader ! It was he who slew the artillery man . 
It is well that he has placed himself there . 
Let us shoot him down on the spot . 
Shoot me , said Enjolras . 
And flinging away his bit of gun barrel , and folding his arms , he offered his breast . 
The audacity of a fine death always affects men . 
As soon as Enjolras folded his arms and accepted his end , the din of strife ceased in the room , and this chaos suddenly stilled into a sort of sepulchral solemnity . 
It was of him , possibly , that a witness spoke afterwards , before the council of war There was an insurgent whom I heard called Apollo . 
A National Guardsman who had taken aim at Enjolras , lowered his gun , saying It seems to me that I am about to shoot a flower . 
Twelve men formed into a squad in the corner opposite Enjolras , and silently made ready their guns . 
Then a sergeant shouted Take aim ! An officer intervened . 
And addressing Enjolras Do you wish to have your eyes bandaged ? No. Was it you who killed the artillery sergeant ? Yes . 
Grantaire had waked up a few moments before . 
Grantaire , it will be remembered , had been asleep ever since the preceding evening in the upper room of the wine shop , seated on a chair and leaning on the table . 
He realized in its fullest sense the old metaphor of dead drunk . 
The hideous potion of absinthe porter and alcohol had thrown him into a lethargy . 
His table being small , and not suitable for the barricade , he had been left in possession of it . 
He was still in the same posture , with his breast bent over the table , his head lying flat on his arms , surrounded by glasses , beer jugs and bottles . 
His was the overwhelming slumber of the torpid bear and the satiated leech . 
Nor the tremendous uproar of the assault . 
He merely replied to the cannonade , now and then , by a snore . 
He seemed to be waiting there for a bullet which should spare him the trouble of waking . 
Many corpses were strewn around him and , at the first glance , there was nothing to distinguish him from those profound sleepers of death . 
Noise does not rouse a drunken man silence awakens him . 
The fall of everything around him only augmented Grantaire's prostration the crumbling of all things was his lullaby . 
The sort of halt which the tumult underwent in the presence of Enjolras was a shock to this heavy slumber . 
It had the effect of a carriage going at full speed , which suddenly comes to a dead stop . 
The persons dozing within it wake up . 
Grantaire rose to his feet with a start , stretched out his arms , rubbed his eyes , stared , yawned , and understood . 
A fit of drunkenness reaching its end resembles a curtain which is torn away . 
One beholds , at a single glance and as a whole , all that it has concealed . 
The immense gleam of the whole combat which he had missed , and in which he had had no part , appeared in the brilliant glance of the transfigured drunken man . 
He repeated Long live the Republic ! crossed the room with a firm stride and placed himself in front of the guns beside Enjolras . 
Finish both of us at one blow , said he . 
And turning gently to Enjolras , he said to him Do you permit it ? Enjolras pressed his hand with a smile . 
This smile was not ended when the report resounded . 
Enjolras , pierced by eight bullets , remained leaning against the wall , as though the balls had nailed him there . 
Only , his head was bowed . 
Grantaire fell at his feet , as though struck by a thunderbolt . 
A few moments later , the soldiers dislodged the last remaining insurgents , who had taken refuge at the top of the house . 
They fired into the attic through a wooden lattice . 
They fought under the very roof . 
They flung bodies , some of them still alive , out through the windows . 
Two light infantrymen , who tried to lift the shattered omnibus , were slain by two shots fired from the attic . 
A man in a blouse was flung down from it , with a bayonet wound in the abdomen , and breathed his last on the ground . 
A soldier and an insurgent slipped together on the sloping slates of the roof , and , as they would not release each other , they fell , clasped in a ferocious embrace . 
A similar conflict went on in the cellar . 
Shouts , shots , a fierce trampling . 
The soldiers began to search the houses round about , and to pursue the fugitives . 
CHAPTER XXIV PRISONER Marius was , in fact , a prisoner . 
The hand which had seized him from behind and whose grasp he had felt at the moment of his fall and his loss of consciousness was that of Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean had taken no other part in the combat than to expose himself in it . 
Had it not been for him , no one , in that supreme phase of agony , would have thought of the wounded . 
Thanks to him , everywhere present in the carnage , like a providence , those who fell were picked up , transported to the tap room , and cared for . 
In the intervals , he reappeared on the barricade . 
But nothing which could resemble a blow , an attack or even personal defence proceeded from his hands . 
He held his peace and lent succor . 
Moreover he had received only a few scratches . 
The bullets would have none of him . 
If suicide formed part of what he had meditated on coming to this sepulchre , to that spot , he had not succeeded . 
But we doubt whether he had thought of suicide , an irreligious act . 
Jean Valjean , in the thick cloud of the combat , did not appear to see Marius the truth is , that he never took his eyes from the latter . 
When a shot laid Marius low , Jean Valjean leaped forward with the agility of a tiger , fell upon him as on his prey , and bore him off . 
It was in this sort of fold in the interior trapezium of the barricade , that Eponine had breathed her last . 
There Jean Valjean halted , let Marius slide to the ground , placed his back against the wall , and cast his eyes about him . 
The troops of the line were posted on the watch behind that barricade . 
On his left he had the field of battle . 
Death lurked round the corner of that wall . 
What was to be done ? Only a bird could have extricated itself from this predicament . 
And it was necessary to decide on the instant , to devise some expedient , to come to some decision . 
This grating , made of stout , transverse bars , was about two feet square . 
The frame of paving stones which supported it had been torn up , and it was , as it were , unfastened . 
Through the bars a view could be had of a dark aperture , something like the flue of a chimney , or the pipe of a cistern . 
His old art of escape rose to his brain like an illumination . 
Jean Valjean found himself with Marius , who was still unconscious , in a sort of long , subterranean corridor . 
There reigned profound peace , absolute silence , night . 
The impression which he had formerly experienced when falling from the wall into the convent recurred to him . 
Only , what he was carrying to day was not Cosette it was Marius . 
He could barely hear the formidable tumult in the wine shop , taken by assault , like a vague murmur overhead . 
THE INTESTINE OF THE LEVIATHAN CHAPTER I THE LAND IMPOVERISHED BY THE SEA Paris casts twenty five millions yearly into the water . 
How , and in what manner ? Day and night . 
With what object ? With no object . 
With what intention ? With no intention . 
Why ? For no reason . 
By means of what organ ? By means of its intestine . 
What is its intestine ? The sewer . 
Twenty five millions is the most moderate approximative figure which the valuations of special science have set upon it . 
Science , after having long groped about , now knows that the most fecundating and the most efficacious of fertilizers is human manure . 
The Chinese , let us confess it to our shame , knew it before us . 
Thanks to human dung , the earth in China is still as young as in the days of Abraham . 
Chinese wheat yields a hundred fold of the seed . 
There is no guano comparable in fertility with the detritus of a capital . 
A great city is the most mighty of dung makers . 
Certain success would attend the experiment of employing the city to manure the plain . 
If our gold is manure , our manure , on the other hand , is gold . 
What is done with this golden manure ? It is swept into the abyss . 
All the human and animal manure which the world wastes , restored to the land instead of being cast into the water , would suffice to nourish the world . 
This is the will of that mysterious creation which is transformation on earth and transfiguration in heaven . 
Restore this to the great crucible your abundance will flow forth from it . 
The nutrition of the plains furnishes the nourishment of men . 
You have it in your power to lose this wealth , and to consider me ridiculous to boot . 
This will form the master piece of your ignorance . 
Statisticians have calculated that France alone makes a deposit of half a milliard every year , in the Atlantic , through the mouths of her rivers . 
Note this with five hundred millions we could pay one quarter of the expenses of our budget . 
The cleverness of man is such that he prefers to get rid of these five hundred millions in the gutter . 
Every hiccough of our sewers costs us a thousand francs . 
From this spring two results , the land impoverished , and the water tainted . 
Hunger arising from the furrow , and disease from the stream . 
It is notorious , for example , that at the present hour , the Thames is poisoning London . 
So far as Paris is concerned , it has become indispensable of late , to transport the mouths of the sewers down stream , below the last bridge . 
People are thinking of other things . 
The process actually in use does evil , with the intention of doing good . 
The intention is good , the result is melancholy . 
Thinking to purge the city , the population is blanched like plants raised in cellars . 
A sewer is a mistake . 
Add the suppression of parasitism , and it will be solved . 
In the meanwhile , the public wealth flows away to the river , and leakage takes place . 
Europe is being ruined in this manner by exhaustion . 
As for France , we have just cited its figures . 
These twenty five millions , employed in assistance and enjoyment , would double the splendor of Paris . 
The city spends them in sewers . 
There should be nets at Saint Cloud for the public fortune . 
Economically considered , the matter can be summed up thus Paris is a spendthrift . 
Imitate Paris and you will ruin yourselves . 
Moreover , and particularly in this immemorial and senseless waste , Paris is itself an imitator . 
These surprising exhibitions of stupidity are not novel this is no young folly . 
The ancients did like the moderns . 
The sewers of Rome , says Liebig , have absorbed all the well being of the Roman peasant . 
The sewer of Rome has engulfed the world . 
This cess pool offered its engulfment to the city and the universe . 
Eternal city , unfathomable sewer . 
Rome sets the example for these things as well as for others . 
Paris follows this example with all the stupidity peculiar to intelligent towns . 
The sub soil of Paris , if the eye could penetrate its surface , would present the aspect of a colossal madrepore . 
A sponge has no more partitions and ducts than the mound of earth for a circuit of six leagues round about , on which rests the great and ancient city . 
There appears , in the humid mist , the rat which seems the product to which Paris has given birth . 
On the right bank , the belt sewer will form the trunk of this branch , the secondary ducts will form the branches , and those without exit the twigs . 
This figure is but a summary one and half exact , the right angle , which is the customary angle of this species of subterranean ramifications , being very rare in vegetation . 
Sinks and sewers played a great part in the Middle Ages , in the Lower Empire and in the Orient of old . 
The masses regarded these beds of decomposition , these monstrous cradles of death , with a fear that was almost religious . 
The vermin ditch of Benares is no less conducive to giddiness than the lions' ditch of Babylon . 
Teglath Phalasar , according to the rabbinical books , swore by the sink of Nineveh . 
The history of men is reflected in the history of sewers . 
The sewer of Paris has been an ancient and formidable thing . 
It has been a sepulchre , it has served as an asylum . 
A hundred years ago , the nocturnal blow of the dagger emerged thence , the pickpocket in danger slipped thither the forest had its cave , Paris had its sewer . 
Steps on the Aventine Hill , leading to the Tiber , to which the bodies of executed criminals were dragged by hooks to be thrown into the Tiber . 
Hence a throng of souvenirs . 
All sorts of phantoms haunt these long , solitary corridors everywhere is putrescence and miasma here and there are breathing holes , where Villon within converses with Rabelais without . 
The sewer in ancient Paris is the rendezvous of all exhaustions and of all attempts . 
Political economy therein spies a detritus , social philosophy there beholds a residuum . 
The sewer is the conscience of the city . 
Everything there converges and confronts everything else . 
In that livid spot there are shades , but there are no longer any secrets . 
Each thing bears its true form , or at least , its definitive form . 
The mass of filth has this in its favor , that it is not a liar . 
Ingenuousness has taken refuge there . 
Scapin's false nose is its next door neighbor . 
All the uncleannesses of civilization , once past their use , fall into this trench of truth , where the immense social sliding ends . 
They are there engulfed , but they display themselves there . 
This mixture is a confession . 
All which was formerly rouged , is washed free . 
The last veil is torn away . 
A sewer is a cynic . 
The sincerity of foulness pleases us , and rests the soul . 
This is instructive at the same time . 
We have just said that history passes through the sewer . 
The Saint Barthelemys filter through there , drop by drop , between the paving stones . 
Great public assassinations , political and religious butcheries , traverse this underground passage of civilization , and thrust their corpses there . 
is there with Tristan , Francois I. with Duprat , Charles IX . 
is there with his mother , Richelieu is there with Louis XIII . 
, Louvois is there , Letellier is there , Hebert and Maillard are there , scratching the stones , and trying to make the traces of their actions disappear . 
Beneath these vaults one hears the brooms of spectres . 
One there breathes the enormous fetidness of social catastrophes . 
One beholds reddish reflections in the corners . 
There flows a terrible stream , in which bloody hands have been washed . 
The social observer should enter these shadows . 
They form a part of his laboratory . 
Philosophy is the microscope of the thought . 
Everything desires to flee from it , but nothing escapes it . 
What side of oneself does one display in evasions ? the shameful side . 
Philosophy pursues with its glance , probes the evil , and does not permit it to escape into nothingness . 
In the obliteration of things which disappear , in the watching of things which vanish , it recognizes all . 
It reconstructs the purple from the rag , and the woman from the scrap of her dress . 
From the cess pool , it re constitutes the city from mud , it reconstructs manners from the potsherd it infers the amphora or the jug . 
By the imprint of a finger nail on a piece of parchment , it recognizes the difference which separates the Jewry of the Judengasse from the Jewry of the Ghetto . 
CHAPTER III BRUNESEAU The sewer of Paris in the Middle Ages was legendary . 
In the sixteenth century , Henri II . 
attempted a bore , which failed . 
Not a hundred years ago , the cess pool , Mercier attests the fact , was abandoned to itself , and fared as best it might . 
Such was this ancient Paris , delivered over to quarrels , to indecision , and to gropings . 
It was tolerably stupid for a long time . 
Later on , showed how understanding comes to cities . 
But in the good , old times , the capital had not much head . 
It did not know how to manage its own affairs either morally or materially , and could not sweep out filth any better than it could abuses . 
Everything presented an obstacle , everything raised a question . 
The sewer , for example , was refractory to every itinerary . 
Sometimes the Paris sewer took a notion to overflow , as though this misunderstood Nile were suddenly seized with a fit of rage . 
There occurred , infamous to relate , inundations of the sewer . 
At times , that stomach of civilization digested badly , the cess pool flowed back into the throat of the city , and Paris got an after taste of her own filth . 
The inundation of is one of the actual memories of Parisians of the age of eighty . 
The mud spread in cross form over the Place des Victoires , where stands the statue of Louis XIV . 
At the beginning of this century , the sewer of Paris was still a mysterious place . 
Mud can never enjoy a good fame but in this case its evil renown reached the verge of the terrible . 
Paris knew , in a confused way , that she had under her a terrible cavern . 
People talked of it as of that monstrous bed of Thebes in which swarmed centipedes fifteen long feet in length , and which might have served Behemoth for a bathtub . 
The great boots of the sewermen never ventured further than certain well known points . 
We were then very near the epoch when the scavenger's carts , from the summit of which Sainte Foix fraternized with the Marquis de Crequi , discharged their loads directly into the sewer . 
As for cleaning out , that function was entrusted to the pouring rains which encumbered rather than swept away . 
Rome left some poetry to her sewer , and called it the Gemoniae Paris insulted hers , and entitled it the Polypus Hole . 
Science and superstition were in accord , in horror . 
The Polypus hole was no less repugnant to hygiene than to legend . 
The popular imagination seasoned the sombre Parisian sink with some indescribably hideous intermixture of the infinite . 
The sewer had no bottom . 
The sewer was the lower world . 
The idea of exploring these leprous regions did not even occur to the police . 
To try that unknown thing , to cast the plummet into that shadow , to set out on a voyage of discovery in that abyss who would have dared ? It was alarming . 
Nevertheless , some one did present himself . 
The cess pool had its Christopher Columbus . 
Sire , said the Minister of the Interior to Napoleon , yesterday I saw the most intrepid man in your Empire . 
What man is that ? said the Emperor brusquely , and what has he done ? He wants to do something , Sire . 
What is it ? To visit the sewers of Paris . 
This man existed and his name was Bruneseau . 
CHAPTER IV The visit took place . 
It was a formidable campaign a nocturnal battle against pestilence and suffocation . 
It was , at the same time , a voyage of discovery . 
The processes of disinfection were , at that epoch , extremely rudimentary . 
Hardly had Bruneseau crossed the first articulations of that subterranean network , when eight laborers out of the twenty refused to go any further . 
The lanterns pined away in the foul atmosphere . 
From time to time , a fainting sewerman was carried out . 
At certain points , there were precipices . 
On the advice of Fourcroy , they lighted large cages filled with tow steeped in resin , from time to time , in spots which had been sufficiently disinfected . 
In some places , the wall was covered with misshapen fungi , one would have said tumors the very stone seemed diseased within this unbreathable atmosphere . 
Bruneseau , in his exploration , proceeded down hill . 
with visiting the subterranean drains of Paris , had halted . 
Here and there , particularly beneath the Court House , they thought they recognized the hollows of ancient dungeons , excavated in the very sewer itself . 
An iron neck collar was hanging in one of these cells . 
They walled them all up . 
The poor devil had ended by drowning himself in the sewer . 
Beneath this long , arched drain which terminated at the Arche Marion , a perfectly preserved rag picker's basket excited the admiration of all connoisseurs . 
Everywhere , the mire , which the sewermen came to handle with intrepidity , abounded in precious objects , jewels of gold and silver , precious stones , coins . 
If a giant had filtered this cesspool , he would have had the riches of centuries in his lair . 
The most surprising rencounter was at the entrance to the Grand Sewer . 
This entrance had formerly been closed by a grating of which nothing but the hinges remained . 
Bruneseau held his lantern close to this rag and examined it . 
It was of very fine batiste , and in one of the corners , less frayed than the rest , they made out a heraldic coronet and embroidered above these seven letters LAVBESP . 
The crown was the coronet of a Marquis , and the seven letters signified Laubespine . 
They recognized the fact , that what they had before their eyes was a morsel of the shroud of Marat . 
Marat in his youth had had amorous intrigues . 
This was when he was a member of the household of the Comte d'Artois , in the capacity of physician to the Stables . 
From these love affairs , historically proved , with a great lady , he had retained this sheet . 
As a waif or a souvenir . 
At his death , as this was the only linen of any fineness which he had in his house , they buried him in it . 
Some old women had shrouded him for the tomb in that swaddling band in which the tragic Friend of the people had enjoyed voluptuousness . 
They left that rag where it hung they did not put the finishing touch to it . 
Did this arise from scorn or from respect ? Marat deserved both . 
And then , destiny was there sufficiently stamped to make them hesitate to touch it . 
Besides , the things of the sepulchre must be left in the spot which they select . 
In short , the relic was a strange one . 
A Marquise had slept in it Marat had rotted in it it had traversed the Pantheon to end with the rats of the sewer . 
This chamber rag , of which Watteau would formerly have joyfully sketched every fold , had ended in becoming worthy of the fixed gaze of Dante . 
The whole visit to the subterranean stream of filth of Paris lasted seven years , from to . 
At the same time , he had the whole net work disinfected and rendered healthful . 
In the second year of his work , Bruneseau engaged the assistance of his son in law Nargaud . 
It was thus that , at the beginning of the century , ancient society cleansed its double bottom , and performed the toilet of its sewer . 
There was that much clean , at all events . 
This , we repeat , was the sewer of the past . 
CHAPTER V PRESENT PROGRESS To day the sewer is clean , cold , straight , correct . 
It almost realizes the ideal of what is understood in England by the word respectable . 
It is proper and grayish laid out by rule and line one might almost say as though it came out of a bandbox . 
It resembles a tradesman who has become a councillor of state . 
One can almost see distinctly there . 
The mire there comports itself with decency . 
However , if the geometrical line is in place anywhere , it is certainly in the drainage trench of a great city . 
There , everything should be subordinated to the shortest road . 
The sewer has , nowadays , assumed a certain official aspect . 
The very police reports , of which it sometimes forms the subject , no longer are wanting in respect towards it . 
The words which characterize it in administrative language are sonorous and dignified . 
What used to be called a gut is now called a gallery what used to be called a hole is now called a surveying orifice . 
Villon would no longer meet with his ancient temporary provisional lodging . 
The cesspool no longer retains anything of its primitive ferocity . 
The rain , which in former days soiled the sewer , now washes it . 
Nevertheless , do not trust yourself too much to it . 
It is more hypocritical than irreproachable . 
The prefecture of police and the commission of health have done their best . 
But , in spite of all the processes of disinfection , it exhales , a vague , suspicious odor like Tartuffe after confession . 
It is more than progress it is transmutation . 
Between the ancient and the present sewer there is a revolution . 
What has effected this revolution ? The man whom all the world forgets , and whom we have mentioned , Bruneseau . 
CHAPTER VI FUTURE PROGRESS The excavation of the sewer of Paris has been no slight task . 
The last ten centuries have toiled at it without being able to bring it to a termination , any more than they have been able to finish Paris . 
The sewer , in fact , receives all the counter shocks of the growth of Paris . 
Within the bosom of the earth , it is a sort of mysterious polyp with a thousand antennae , which expands below as the city expands above . 
Every time that the city cuts a street , the sewer stretches out an arm . 
The old monarchy had constructed only twenty three thousand three hundred metres of sewers that was where Paris stood in this respect on the first of January , . 
An obscure ramification ever at work a construction which is immense and ignored . 
As the reader sees , the subterranean labyrinth of Paris is to day more than ten times what it was at the beginning of the century . 
All sorts of obstacles hindered this operation , some peculiar to the soil , others inherent in the very prejudices of the laborious population of Paris . 
Paris is built upon a soil which is singularly rebellious to the pick , the hoe , the bore , and to human manipulation . 
There are liquid clays , springs , hard rocks , and those soft and deep quagmires which special science calls moutardes . 
The pick advances laboriously through the calcareous layers alternating with very slender threads of clay , and schistose beds in plates incrusted with oyster shells , the contemporaries of the pre Adamite oceans . 
Add suffocation by miasmas , burial by slides , and sudden crumbling of the earth . 
Add the typhus , with which the workmen become slowly impregnated . 
There are no bulletins for such acts of bravery as these , which are more useful , nevertheless , than the brutal slaughter of the field of battle . 
The sewers of Paris in were far from being what they are to day . 
Bruneseau had given the impulse , but the cholera was required to bring about the vast reconstruction which took place later on . 
It was only in that the city of Paris found in its pocket the two hundred and sixty thousand eighty francs and six centimes required for covering this mass of filth . 
The intestinal sewer of Paris has been made over anew , and , as we have said , it has been extended more than tenfold within the last quarter of a century . 
Thirty years ago , at the epoch of the insurrection of the th and th of June , it was still , in many localities , nearly the same ancient sewer . 
A very great number of streets which are now convex were then sunken causeways . 
The official language of the Roads and Bridges gave to these gratings the expressive name of Cassis . 
From casser , to break break necks . 
It consisted of enormous voids of stone catch basins sometimes surrounded by stone posts , with monumental effrontery . 
Paris in still had nearly the same sewers numerically as stated in five thousand three hundred fathoms . 
After Bruneseau , on the st of January , , it had forty thousand three hundred metres . 
At two hundred francs the metre , the sixty leagues of Paris' sewers of the present day represent forty eight millions . 
In addition to the economic progress which we have indicated at the beginning , grave problems of public hygiene are connected with that immense question the sewers of Paris . 
Paris is the centre of two sheets , a sheet of water and a sheet of air . 
The sheet of water is healthy , it comes from heaven in the first place and next from the earth the sheet of air is unhealthy , it comes from the sewer . 
All the miasms of the cess pool are mingled with the breath of the city hence this bad breath . 
The air taken from above a dung heap , as has been scientifically proved , is purer than the air taken from above Paris . 
The reader knows , that by washing the sewer we mean the restitution of the filth to the earth the return to the soil of dung and of manure to the fields . 
Through this simple act , the entire social community will experience a diminution of misery and an augmentation of health . 
At the present hour , the radiation of diseases from Paris extends to fifty leagues around the Louvre , taken as the hub of this pestilential wheel . 
We might say that , for ten centuries , the cess pool has been the disease of Paris . 
The sewer is the blemish which Paris has in her blood . 
The popular instinct has never been deceived in it . 
MUD BUT THE SOUL CHAPTER I THE SEWER AND ITS SURPRISES It was in the sewers of Paris that Jean Valjean found himself . 
Still another resemblance between Paris and the sea . 
As in the ocean , the diver may disappear there . 
The transition was an unheard of one . 
He remained for several seconds as though bewildered listening , stupefied . 
The waste trap of safety had suddenly yawned beneath him . 
Celestial goodness had , in a manner , captured him by treachery . 
His first sensation was one of blindness . 
All of a sudden , he could see nothing . 
It seemed to him too , that , in one instant , he had become deaf . 
He no longer heard anything . 
He felt that the ground was solid under his feet that was all but that was enough . 
He cautiously put forward one foot , fearing a hole , a sink , some gulf he discovered that the paving continued . 
A gust of fetidness informed him of the place in which he stood . 
After the lapse of a few minutes , he was no longer blind . 
A little light fell through the man hole through which he had descended , and his eyes became accustomed to this cavern . 
He began to distinguish something . 
The passage in which he had burrowed no other word can better express the situation was walled in behind him . 
It was one of those blind alleys , which the special jargon terms branches . 
In front of him there was another wall , a wall like night . 
Beyond , the opaqueness was massive to penetrate thither seemed horrible , an entrance into it appeared like an engulfment . 
A man could , however , plunge into that wall of fog and it was necessary so to do . 
They also might descend into that well and search it . 
There was not a minute to be lost . 
He had deposited Marius on the ground , he picked him up again , that is the real word for it , placed him on his shoulders once more , and set out . 
He plunged resolutely into the gloom . 
The truth is , that they were less safe than Jean Valjean fancied . 
Perils of another sort and no less serious were awaiting them , perchance . 
After the lightning charged whirlwind of the combat , the cavern of miasmas and traps after chaos , the sewer . 
Jean Valjean had fallen from one circle of hell into another . 
When he had advanced fifty paces , he was obliged to halt . 
The passage terminated in another gut which he encountered across his path . 
There two ways presented themselves . 
To follow to the slope is to arrive at the river . 
This Jean Valjean instantly comprehended . 
Perhaps he would come out on some man hole at the intersection of streets . 
Amazement of the passers by at beholding two bleeding men emerge from the earth at their feet . 
Arrival of the police , a call to arms of the neighboring post of guards . 
Thus they would be seized before they had even got out . 
It would be better to plunge into that labyrinth , to confide themselves to that black gloom , and to trust to Providence for the outcome . 
He ascended the incline , and turned to the right . 
Nevertheless , he advanced as rapidly as possible . 
Marius' two arms were passed round his neck , and the former's feet dragged behind him . 
He held both these arms with one hand , and groped along the wall with the other . 
Marius' cheek touched his , and clung there , bleeding . 
He felt a warm stream which came from Marius trickling down upon him and making its way under his clothes . 
But a humid warmth near his ear , which the mouth of the wounded man touched , indicated respiration , and consequently , life . 
The passage along which Jean Valjean was now proceeding was not so narrow as the first . 
Jean Valjean walked through it with considerable difficulty . 
Thus he proceeded in the gloom . 
He resembled the beings of the night groping in the invisible and lost beneath the earth in veins of shadow . 
The pupil dilates in the dark , and the soul dilates in misfortune and ends by finding God there . 
It was not easy to direct his course . 
The line of the sewer re echoes , so to speak , the line of the streets which lie above it . 
There were then in Paris two thousand two hundred streets . 
Let the reader imagine himself beneath that forest of gloomy branches which is called the sewer . 
The system of sewers existing at that epoch , placed end to end , would have given a length of eleven leagues . 
We have said above , that the actual net work , thanks to the special activity of the last thirty years , was no less than sixty leagues in extent . 
Jean Valjean began by committing a blunder . 
He thought that he was beneath the Rue Saint Denis , and it was a pity that it was not so . 
Under the Rue Saint Denis there is an old stone sewer which dates from Louis XIII . 
There opportunities of losing oneself abound . 
The Montmartre sewer is one of the most labyrinthine of the ancient network . 
He advanced with anxiety , but with calmness , seeing nothing , knowing nothing , buried in chance , that is to say , engulfed in providence . 
By degrees , we will admit , a certain horror seized upon him . 
The gloom which enveloped him penetrated his spirit . 
He walked in an enigma . 
This aqueduct of the sewer is formidable it interlaces in a dizzy fashion . 
It is a melancholy thing to be caught in this Paris of shadows . 
Jean Valjean was obliged to find and even to invent his route without seeing it . 
In this unknown , every step that he risked might be his last . 
He put all these questions to himself without replying to them . 
The intestines of Paris form a precipice . 
Like the prophet , he was in the belly of the monster . 
All at once , he had a surprise . 
The sewer was now descending . 
Why ? Was he about to arrive suddenly at the Seine ? This danger was a great one , but the peril of retreating was still greater . 
It was not towards the Seine that he was proceeding . 
The ridge which the soil of Paris forms on its right bank empties one of its water sheds into the Seine and the other into the Grand Sewer . 
The crest of this ridge which determines the division of the waters describes a very capricious line . 
It was this culminating point that Jean Valjean had reached . 
He was directing his course towards the belt sewer he was on the right path . 
But he did not know it . 
Thus he avoided the quadruple trap which was set for him in the darkness by the four labyrinths which we have just enumerated . 
Overhead he suddenly heard a noise as of thunder , distant but continuous . 
It was the rumbling of vehicles . 
The darkness was more profound than ever , but its very depth reassured him . 
All at once , he saw his shadow in front of him . 
Stupefied , he turned round . 
It was the gloomy star of the police which was rising in the sewer . 
In the rear of that star eight or ten forms were moving about in a confused way , black , upright , indistinct , horrible . 
CHAPTER II EXPLANATION On the day of the sixth of June , a battue of the sewers had been ordered . 
Three squads of agents and sewermen explored the subterranean drain of Paris , the first on the right bank , the second on the left bank , the third in the city . 
The agents of police were armed with carabines , with bludgeons , swords and poignards . 
That which was directed at Jean Valjean at that moment , was the lantern of the patrol of the right bank . 
This patrol had just visited the curving gallery and the three blind alleys which lie beneath the Rue du Cadran . 
The police , on emerging from the gallery du Cadran , had fancied that they heard the sound of footsteps in the direction of the belt sewer . 
They were , in fact , the steps of Jean Valjean . 
The sergeant in command of the patrol had raised his lantern , and the squad had begun to gaze into the mist in the direction whence the sound proceeded . 
This was an indescribable moment for Jean Valjean . 
Happily , if he saw the lantern well , the lantern saw him but ill . 
It was light and he was shadow . 
He was very far off , and mingled with the darkness of the place . 
He hugged the wall and halted . 
Moreover , he did not understand what it was that was moving behind him . 
The lack of sleep and food , and his emotions had caused him also to pass into the state of a visionary . 
He beheld a gleam , and around that gleam , forms . 
What was it ? He did not comprehend . 
Jean Valjean having paused , the sound ceased . 
The men of the patrol listened , and heard nothing , they looked and saw nothing . 
The patrol could form a cluster in this open space . 
Jean Valjean saw these spectres form a sort of circle . 
These bull dogs' heads approached each other closely and whispered together . 
From time to time , parties re sole their old insults . 
In , the word bousingot formed the interim between the word jacobin , which had become obsolete , and the word demagogue which has since rendered such excellent service . 
The sergeant gave orders to turn to the left , towards the watershed of the Seine . 
If it had occurred to them to separate into two squads , and to go in both directions , Jean Valjean would have been captured . 
All hung on that thread . 
It is probable that the instructions of the prefecture , foreseeing a possibility of combat and insurgents in force , had forbidden the patrol to part company . 
The patrol resumed its march , leaving Jean Valjean behind it . 
Of all this movement , Jean Valjean perceived nothing , except the eclipse of the lantern which suddenly wheeled round . 
Before taking his departure , the Sergeant , in order to acquit his policeman's conscience , discharged his gun in the direction of Jean Valjean . 
The detonation rolled from echo to echo in the crypt , like the rumbling of that titanic entrail . 
The ordinary service was performed correctly in company with the extraordinary service , and was not troubled by the latter . 
There is no longer any bank there now . 
The aspect of the locality has changed . 
On that bank , two men , separated by a certain distance , seemed to be watching each other while mutually avoiding each other . 
The one who was in advance was trying to get away , the one in the rear was trying to overtake the other . 
It was like a game of checkers played at a distance and in silence . 
Neither seemed to be in any hurry , and both walked slowly , as though each of them feared by too much haste to make his partner redouble his pace . 
One would have said that it was an appetite following its prey , and purposely without wearing the air of doing so . 
The prey was crafty and on its guard . 
The proper relations between the hunted pole cat and the hunting dog were observed . 
The shore was deserted there were no passers by not even a boatman nor a lighter man was in the skiffs which were moored here and there . 
Perchance the reader might recognize these two men , if he were to see them closer at hand . 
What was the object of the second man ? Probably to succeed in clothing the first more warmly . 
When a man clothed by the state pursues a man in rags , it is in order to make of him a man who is also clothed by the state . 
Only , the whole question lies in the color . 
To be dressed in blue is glorious to be dressed in red is disagreeable . 
There is a purple from below . 
It is probably some unpleasantness and some purple of this sort which the first man is desirous of shirking . 
This delicate operation is called spinning . 
This was not observed by the slouching and tattered personage who was in advance . 
The hackney coach rolled along the trees of the Champs Elysees . 
The bust of the driver , whip in hand , could be seen moving along above the parapet . 
One of the secret instructions of the police authorities to their agents contains this article Always have on hand a hackney coach , in case of emergency . 
This inclined plane was suppressed later on , for the sake of symmetry horses may die of thirst , but the eye is gratified . 
To the great surprise of his watcher , the man who was being tracked did not mount by the inclined plane for watering . 
He continued to advance along the quay on the shore . 
His position was visibly becoming critical . 
There he would inevitably find himself blocked between the perpendicular wall on his right , the river on his left and in front of him , and the authorities on his heels . 
It is true that this termination of the shore was hidden from sight by a heap of rubbish six or seven feet in height , produced by some demolition or other . 
But did this man hope to conceal himself effectually behind that heap of rubbish , which one need but skirt ? The expedient would have been puerile . 
He certainly was not dreaming of such a thing . 
The innocence of thieves does not extend to that point . 
The pile of rubbish formed a sort of projection at the water's edge , which was prolonged in a promontory as far as the wall of the quay . 
The man who was being followed arrived at this little mound and went round it , so that he ceased to be seen by the other . 
The latter , as he did not see , could not be seen he took advantage of this fact to abandon all dissimulation and to walk very rapidly . 
In a few moments , he had reached the rubbish heap and passed round it . 
There he halted in sheer amazement . 
The man whom he had been pursuing was no longer there . 
Total eclipse of the man in the blouse . 
The shore , beginning with the rubbish heap , was only about thirty paces long , then it plunged into the water which beat against the wall of the quay . 
The fugitive could not have thrown himself into the Seine without being seen by the man who was following him . 
All at once he smote his brow . 
This grating , a sort of door pierced at the base of the quay , opened on the river as well as on the shore . 
A blackish stream passed under it . 
This stream discharged into the Seine . 
Beyond the heavy , rusty iron bars , a sort of dark and vaulted corridor could be descried . 
The man folded his arms and stared at the grating with an air of reproach . 
As this gaze did not suffice , he tried to thrust it aside he shook it , it resisted solidly . 
This indicated that the man before whom that door had just opened had not a hook but a key . 
The hackney coach , which regulated all its movements on his , had , in its turn , halted on the quay above him , close to the parapet . 
CHAPTER IV HE ALSO BEARS HIS CROSS Jean Valjean had resumed his march and had not again paused . 
This march became more and more laborious . 
The moisture of the stones , and the viscous nature of the timber framework furnished but poor supports to which to cling , either for hand or foot . 
He stumbled along in the hideous dung heap of the city . 
Jean Valjean was both hungry and thirsty especially thirsty and this , like the sea , was a place full of water where a man cannot drink . 
Fatigue began to gain on him and as his strength decreased , it made the weight of his burden increase . 
Marius , who was , perhaps , dead , weighed him down as inert bodies weigh . 
Jean Valjean held him in such a manner that his chest was not oppressed , and so that respiration could proceed as well as possible . 
Between his legs he felt the rapid gliding of the rats . 
One of them was frightened to such a degree that he bit him . 
From time to time , a breath of fresh air reached him through the vent holes of the mouths of the sewer , and re animated him . 
It might have been three hours past midday when he reached the belt sewer . 
He was , at first , astonished at this sudden widening . 
He found himself , all at once , in a gallery where his outstretched hands could not reach the two walls , and beneath a vault which his head did not touch . 
The Grand Sewer is , in fact , eight feet wide and seven feet high . 
At the point where the Montmartre sewer joins the Grand Sewer , two other subterranean galleries , that of the Rue de Provence , and that of the Abattoir , form a square . 
Between these four ways , a less sagacious man would have remained undecided . 
Jean Valjean selected the broadest , that is to say , the belt sewer . 
But here the question again came up should he descend or ascend ? He thought that the situation required haste , and that he must now gain the Seine at any risk . 
In other terms , he must descend . 
He turned to the left . 
He would have been lost . 
But in order to do this , he must have been thoroughly familiar with the enormous madrepore of the sewer in all its ramifications and in all its openings . 
His instinct served him well . 
To descend was , in fact , possible safety . 
A little beyond an affluent , which was , probably , the Madeleine branch , he halted . 
A passably large air hole , probably the man hole in the Rue d'Anjou , furnished a light that was almost vivid . 
Jean Valjean , with the gentleness of movement which a brother would exercise towards his wounded brother , deposited Marius on the banquette of the sewer . 
Marius' blood stained face appeared under the wan light of the air hole like the ashes at the bottom of a tomb . 
His eyes were closed , his hair was plastered down on his temples like a painter's brushes dried in red wash his hands hung limp and dead . 
Jean Valjean , pushing aside the garments with the tips of his fingers , laid his hand upon Marius' breast his heart was still beating . 
On disarranging Marius' garments , he had found two things in his pockets , the roll which had been forgotten there on the preceding evening , and Marius' pocketbook . 
He ate the roll and opened the pocketbook . 
On the first page he found the four lines written by Marius . 
The reader will recall them My name is Marius Pontmercy . 
Carry my body to my grandfather , M. Gillenormand , Rue des Filles du Calvaire , No. , in the Marais . 
He replaced the pocketbook in Marius' pocket . 
The Grand Sewer , directed according to the course of the valley of Menilmontant , is about two leagues long . 
It is paved throughout a notable portion of its extent . 
This torch of the names of the streets of Paris , with which we are illuminating for the reader Jean Valjean's subterranean march , Jean Valjean himself did not possess . 
Nothing told him what zone of the city he was traversing , nor what way he had made . 
Where there are fewer houses and streets , the sewer has fewer air holes . 
The gloom deepened around Jean Valjean . 
Nevertheless , he continued to advance , groping his way in the dark . 
Suddenly this darkness became terrible . 
The beach under foot is like pitch his soles stick fast to it it is no longer sand , it is bird lime . 
The strand is perfectly dry , but at every step that he takes , as soon as the foot is raised , the print is filled with water . 
The man pursues his way , he walks on , turns towards the land , endeavors to approach the shore . 
Uneasy about what ? Only he is conscious that the heaviness of his feet seems to be increasing at every step that he takes . 
All at once he sinks in . 
He sinks in two or three inches . 
Decidedly , he is not on the right road he halts to get his bearings . 
Suddenly he glances at his feet his feet have disappeared . 
The sand has covered them . 
He draws his feet out of the sand , he tries to retrace his steps , he turns back , he sinks in more deeply than before . 
He flings away his burden , if he have one , he lightens himself , like a ship in distress it is too late , the sand is above his knees . 
This engulfment is the sepulchre which assumes a tide , and which mounts from the depths of the earth towards a living man . 
Each minute is an inexorable layer out of the dead . 
Behold him in the sand up to his belly , the sand reaches to his breast , he is only a bust now . 
The sand has reached his shoulders , the sand reaches to his throat only his face is visible now . 
His mouth cries aloud , the sand fills it silence . 
His eyes still gaze forth , the sand closes them , night . 
Then his brow decreases , a little hair quivers above the sand a hand projects , pierces the surface of the beach , waves and disappears . 
Sinister obliteration of a man . 
Sometimes a rider is engulfed with his horse sometimes the carter is swallowed up with his cart all founders in that strand . 
It is shipwreck elsewhere than in the water . 
It is the earth drowning a man . 
The earth , permeated with the ocean , becomes a pitfall . 
It presents itself in the guise of a plain , and it yawns like a wave . 
The abyss is subject to these treacheries . 
This melancholy fate , always possible on certain sea beaches , was also possible , thirty years ago , in the sewers of Paris . 
Before the important works , undertaken in , the subterranean drain of Paris was subject to these sudden slides . 
A fold in a flooring of this sort means a crack , means crumbling . 
The framework crumbled away for a certain length . 
This crevice , the hiatus of a gulf of mire , was called a fontis , in the special tongue . 
What is a fontis ? It is the quicksands of the seashore suddenly encountered under the surface of the earth it is the beach of Mont Saint Michel in a sewer . 
The soaked soil is in a state of fusion , as it were all its molecules are in suspension in soft medium it is not earth and it is not water . 
The depth is sometimes very great . 
Nothing can be more formidable than such an encounter . 
If the water predominates , death is prompt , the man is swallowed up if earth predominates , death is slow . 
On the funeral pile , in shipwreck , one can be great in the flames as in the foam , a superb attitude is possible one there becomes transfigured as one perishes . 
It is humiliating to expire . 
The supreme floating visions are abject . 
Mud is synonymous with shame . 
It is petty , ugly , infamous . 
To die in a butt of Malvoisie , like Clarence , is permissible in the ditch of a scavenger , like Escoubleau , is horrible . 
To struggle therein is hideous at the same time that one is going through the death agony , one is floundering about . 
Everywhere else the sepulchre is sinister here it is deformed . 
The depth of the fontis varied , as well as their length and their density , according to the more or less bad quality of the sub soil . 
Sometimes a fontis was three or four feet deep , sometimes eight or ten sometimes the bottom was unfathomable . 
Here the mire was almost solid , there almost liquid . 
In the Luniere fontis , it would have taken a man a day to disappear , while he would have been devoured in five minutes by the Philippeaux slough . 
The mire bears up more or less , according to its density . 
A child can escape where a man will perish . 
The first law of safety is to get rid of every sort of load . 
Every sewerman who felt the ground giving way beneath him began by flinging away his sack of tools , or his back basket , or his hod . 
In this manner , the heaping up of the Parthenon , obliterated , a century ago , a portion of the vaults of Saint Genevieve hill . 
It also frequently happened , that the interior ravages were not revealed by any external scar , and in that case , woe to the sewermen . 
When they entered without precaution into the sewer , they were liable to be lost . 
Ancient registers make mention of several scavengers who were buried in fontis in this manner . 
Madame de Sourdis , when informed of his death , demanded her smelling bottle , and forgot to weep , through sniffling at her salts . 
In such cases , there is no love which holds fast the sewer extinguishes it . 
Hero refuses to wash the body of Leander . 
Thisbe stops her nose in the presence of Pyramus and says Phew ! CHAPTER VI THE FONTIS Jean Valjean found himself in the presence of a fontis . 
The work was more than unhealthy it was dangerous . 
It is true that they had four months and a half of rain , and three floods of the Seine . 
The fontis which Jean Valjean had encountered was caused by the downpour of the preceding day . 
The pavement , badly sustained by the subjacent sand , had given way and had produced a stoppage of the water . 
Infiltration had taken place , a slip had followed . 
The dislocated bottom had sunk into the ooze . 
To what extent ? Impossible to say . 
The obscurity was more dense there than elsewhere . 
It was a pit of mire in a cavern of night . 
Jean Valjean felt the pavement vanishing beneath his feet . 
There was water on the surface , slime at the bottom . 
To retrace his steps was impossible . 
Marius was dying , and Jean Valjean exhausted . 
Besides , where was he to go ? Jean Valjean advanced . 
Moreover , the pit seemed , for the first few steps , not to be very deep . 
But in proportion as he advanced , his feet plunged deeper . 
Soon he had the slime up to his calves and water above his knees . 
He walked on , raising Marius in his arms , as far above the water as he could . 
The mire now reached to his knees , and the water to his waist . 
He could no longer retreat . 
This mud , dense enough for one man , could not , obviously , uphold two . 
Marius and Jean Valjean would have stood a chance of extricating themselves singly . 
Jean Valjean continued to advance , supporting the dying man , who was , perhaps , a corpse . 
The water came up to his arm pits he felt that he was sinking it was only with difficulty that he could move in the depth of ooze which he had now reached . 
The density , which was his support , was also an obstacle . 
He still held Marius on high , and with an unheard of expenditure of force , he advanced still but he was sinking . 
He had only his head above the water now and his two arms holding up Marius . 
In the old paintings of the deluge there is a mother holding her child thus . 
He straightened himself up , and rooted himself upon that point of support with a sort of fury . 
This produced upon him the effect of the first step in a staircase leading back to life . 
Well built pavements form a vault and possess this sort of firmness . 
This fragment of the vaulting , partly submerged , but solid , was a veritable inclined plane , and , once on this plane , he was safe . 
Jean Valjean mounted this inclined plane and reached the other side of the quagmire . 
As he emerged from the water , he came in contact with a stone and fell upon his knees . 
He reflected that this was but just , and he remained there for some time , with his soul absorbed in words addressed to God . 
CHAPTER VII ONE SOMETIMES RUNS AGROUND WHEN ONE FANCIES THAT ONE IS DISEMBARKING He set out on his way once more . 
However , although he had not left his life in the fontis , he seemed to have left his strength behind him there . 
That supreme effort had exhausted him . 
His lassitude was now such that he was obliged to pause for breath every three or four steps , and lean against the wall . 
Once he was forced to seat himself on the banquette in order to alter Marius' position , and he thought that he should have to remain there . 
But if his vigor was dead , his energy was not . 
He walked on desperately , almost fast , proceeded thus for a hundred paces , almost without drawing breath , and suddenly came in contact with the wall . 
He had reached an elbow of the sewer , and , arriving at the turn with head bent down , he had struck the wall . 
He raised his eyes , and at the extremity of the vault , far , very far away in front of him , he perceived a light . 
This time it was not that terrible light it was good , white light . 
Jean Valjean saw the outlet . 
A damned soul , who , in the midst of the furnace , should suddenly perceive the outlet of Gehenna , would experience what Jean Valjean felt . 
It would fly wildly with the stumps of its burned wings towards that radiant portal . 
Jean Valjean was no longer conscious of fatigue , he no longer felt Marius' weight , he found his legs once more of steel , he ran rather than walked . 
As he approached , the outlet became more and more distinctly defined . 
It was a pointed arch , lower than the vault , which gradually narrowed , and narrower than the gallery , which closed in as the vault grew lower . 
Jean Valjean reached the outlet . 
It certainly was the outlet , but he could not get out . 
The keyhole could be seen , and the robust latch , deeply sunk in the iron staple . 
The door was plainly double locked . 
It was one of those prison locks which old Paris was so fond of lavishing . 
Beyond the grating was the open air , the river , the daylight , the shore , very narrow but sufficient for escape . 
The distant quays , Paris , that gulf in which one so easily hides oneself , the broad horizon , liberty . 
It was one of the most solitary points in Paris the shore which faces the Grand Caillou . 
Flies were entering and emerging through the bars of the grating . 
It might have been half past eight o'clock in the evening . 
The grating did not stir . 
The teeth of a tiger are not more firmly fixed in their sockets . 
No lever no prying possible . 
There was no means of opening the gate . 
If he were to reach another outlet , he would find it obstructed by a plug or a grating . 
Every outlet was , undoubtedly , closed in that manner . 
Chance had unsealed the grating through which he had entered , but it was evident that all the other sewer mouths were barred . 
He had only succeeded in escaping into a prison . 
Everything that Jean Valjean had done was useless . 
Exhaustion had ended in failure . 
They were both caught in the immense and gloomy web of death , and Jean Valjean felt the terrible spider running along those black strands and quivering in the shadows . 
This was the last drop of anguish . 
Of what was he thinking during this profound depression ? Neither of himself nor of Marius . 
He was thinking of Cosette . 
CHAPTER VIII THE TORN COAT TAIL In the midst of this prostration , a hand was laid on his shoulder , and a low voice said to him Half shares . 
Some person in that gloom ? Nothing so closely resembles a dream as despair . 
Jean Valjean thought that he was dreaming . 
He had heard no footsteps . 
Was it possible ? He raised his eyes . 
A man stood before him . 
Jean Valjean did not hesitate for an instant . 
Unexpected as was this encounter , this man was known to him . 
This inequality of conditions sufficed to assure some advantage to Jean Valjean in that mysterious duel which was on the point of beginning between the two situations and the two men . 
The encounter took place between Jean Valjean veiled and Thenardier unmasked . 
Jean Valjean immediately perceived that Thenardier did not recognize him . 
They surveyed each other for a moment in that half gloom , as though taking each other's measure . 
Thenardier was the first to break the silence . 
How are you going to manage to get out ? Jean Valjean made no reply . 
Thenardier continued It's impossible to pick the lock of that gate . 
But still you must get out of this . 
That is true , said Jean Valjean . 
Well , half shares then . 
What do you mean by that ? You have killed that man that's all right . 
He went on I don't know you , but I want to help you . 
You must be a friend . 
Jean Valjean began to comprehend . 
Thenardier took him for an assassin . 
Thenardier resumed Listen , comrade . 
You didn't kill that man without looking to see what he had in his pockets . 
I'll open the door for you . 
And half drawing from beneath his tattered blouse a huge key , he added Do you want to see how a key to liberty is made ? Look here . 
Jean Valjean remained stupid the expression belongs to the elder Corneille to such a degree that he doubted whether what he beheld was real . 
It was providence appearing in horrible guise , and his good angel springing from the earth in the form of Thenardier . 
Thenardier thrust his fist into a large pocket concealed under his blouse , drew out a rope and offered it to Jean Valjean . 
Hold on , said he , I'll give you the rope to boot . 
What is the rope for ? You will need a stone also , but you can find one outside . 
There's a heap of rubbish . 
Jean Valjean took the rope . 
There is no one who does not occasionally accept in this mechanical way . 
Thenardier snapped his fingers as though an idea had suddenly occurred to him . 
Ah , see here , comrade , how did you contrive to get out of that slough yonder ? I haven't dared to risk myself in it . 
Phew ! you don't smell good . 
After a pause he added I'm asking you questions , but you're perfectly right not to answer . 
It's an apprenticeship against that cursed quarter of an hour before the examining magistrate . 
And then , when you don't talk at all , you run no risk of talking too loud . 
You've broken up that gentleman a bit now you want to tuck him away somewhere . 
The river , that great hider of folly , is what you want . 
I'll get you out of your scrape . 
Helping a good fellow in a pinch is what suits me to a hair . 
While expressing his approval of Jean Valjean's silence , he endeavored to force him to talk . 
Why didn't you toss the man in there ? Jean Valjean preserved silence . 
Some one has passed through the sewer . 
Who ? Where did he get out ? Was he seen to come out ? The police are full of cleverness . 
The sewer is treacherous and tells tales of you . 
Such a find is a rarity , it attracts attention , very few people make use of the sewers for their affairs , while the river belongs to everybody . 
The river is the true grave . 
At the end of a month they fish up your man in the nets at Saint Cloud . 
Well , what does one care for that ? It's carrion ! Who killed that man ? Paris . 
And justice makes no inquiries . 
The more loquacious Thenardier became , the more mute was Jean Valjean . 
Again Thenardier shook him by the shoulder . 
Now let's settle this business . 
You have seen my key , show me your money . 
Thenardier was haggard , fierce , suspicious , rather menacing , yet amicable . 
There was no one there except themselves . 
Jean Valjean thought that other ruffians might possibly be concealed in some nook , not very far off , and that Thenardier did not care to share with them . 
Thenardier resumed Let's settle up . 
How much did the stiff have in his bags ? Jean Valjean searched his pockets . 
It was his habit , as the reader will remember , to always have some money about him . 
The mournful life of expedients to which he had been condemned imposed this as a law upon him . 
On this occasion , however , he had been caught unprepared . 
When donning his uniform of a National Guardsman on the preceding evening , he had forgotten , dolefully absorbed as he was , to take his pocket book . 
He had only some small change in his fob . 
Thenardier thrust out his lower lip with a significant twist of the neck . 
You knocked him over cheap , said he . 
He set to feeling the pockets of Jean Valjean and Marius , with the greatest familiarity . 
Jean Valjean , who was chiefly concerned in keeping his back to the light , let him have his way . 
However , he found no more than the thirty francs . 
That's true , said he , both of you together have no more than that . 
And , forgetting his motto half shares , he took all . 
He hesitated a little over the large sous . 
After due reflection , he took them also , muttering Never mind ! You cut folks' throats too cheap altogether . 
That done , he once more drew the big key from under his blouse . 
Now , my friend , you must leave . 
It's like the fair here , you pay when you go out . 
You have paid , now clear out . 
And he began to laugh . 
The bolt slipped back and the gate swung open . 
It neither grated nor squeaked . 
It was obvious that this gate and those hinges , carefully oiled , were in the habit of opening more frequently than was supposed . 
This softness was suspicious it hinted at furtive goings and comings , silent entrances and exits of nocturnal men , and the wolf like tread of crime . 
The sewer was evidently an accomplice of some mysterious band . 
This taciturn grating was a receiver of stolen goods . 
He seemed to walk with the velvet paws of a tiger . 
A moment later , that hideous providence had retreated into the invisibility . 
Jean Valjean found himself in the open air . 
CHAPTER IX MARIUS PRODUCES ON SOME ONE WHO IS A JUDGE OF THE MATTER , THE EFFECT OF BEING DEAD He allowed Marius to slide down upon the shore . 
They were in the open air ! The miasmas , darkness , horror lay behind him . 
The pure , healthful , living , joyous air that was easy to breathe inundated him . 
Everywhere around him reigned silence , but that charming silence when the sun has set in an unclouded azure sky . 
Twilight had descended night was drawing on , the great deliverer , the friend of all those who need a mantle of darkness that they may escape from an anguish . 
The sky presented itself in all directions like an enormous calm . 
The river flowed to his feet with the sound of a kiss . 
The aerial dialogue of the nests bidding each other good night in the elms of the Champs Elysees was audible . 
A few stars , daintily piercing the pale blue of the zenith , and visible to revery alone , formed imperceptible little splendors amid the immensity . 
Evening was unfolding over the head of Jean Valjean all the sweetness of the infinite . 
It was that exquisite and undecided hour which says neither yes nor no . 
Night was already sufficiently advanced to render it possible to lose oneself at a little distance and yet there was sufficient daylight to permit of recognition at close quarters . 
Marius' eyelids did not open but his half open mouth still breathed . 
We have already alluded to this impression , with which everyone is familiar . 
Some one was , in fact , behind him , as there had been a short while before . 
With the aid of the darkness , it seemed a sort of apparition . 
An ordinary man would have been alarmed because of the twilight , a thoughtful man on account of the bludgeon . 
The reader has divined , no doubt , that Thenardier's pursuer was no other than Javert . 
There he had caught sight of Thenardier and had followed him . 
The reader knows the rest . 
Thus it will be easily understood that that grating , so obligingly opened to Jean Valjean , was a bit of cleverness on Thenardier's part . 
Thenardier intuitively felt that Javert was still there the man spied upon has a scent which never deceives him it was necessary to fling a bone to that sleuth hound . 
An assassin , what a godsend ! Such an opportunity must never be allowed to slip . 
Jean Valjean had fallen from one danger upon another . 
These two encounters , this falling one after the other , from Thenardier upon Javert , was a rude shock . 
Javert did not recognize Jean Valjean , who , as we have stated , no longer looked like himself . 
Jean Valjean remained inert beneath Javert's grasp , like a lion submitting to the claws of a lynx . 
Inspector Javert , said he , you have me in your power . 
Moreover , I have regarded myself as your prisoner ever since this morning . 
I did not give you my address with any intention of escaping from you . 
Only grant me one favor . 
Javert did not appear to hear him . 
He kept his eyes riveted on Jean Valjean . 
His chin being contracted , thrust his lips upwards towards his nose , a sign of savage revery . 
Jean Valjean replied , and the sound of his voice appeared to rouse Javert It is with regard to him that I desire to speak to you . 
Dispose of me as you see fit but first help me to carry him home . 
That is all that I ask of you . 
Javert's face contracted as was always the case when any one seemed to think him capable of making a concession . 
Nevertheless , he did not say no . 
Again he bent over , drew from his pocket a handkerchief which he moistened in the water and with which he then wiped Marius' blood stained brow . 
This man was at the barricade , said he in a low voice and as though speaking to himself . 
He is the one they called Marius . 
He seized Marius' hand and felt his pulse . 
He is wounded , said Jean Valjean . 
He is a dead man , said Javert . 
Jean Valjean replied No. Not yet . 
So you have brought him thither from the barricade ? remarked Javert . 
Jean Valjean , on his side , seemed to have but one thought . 
He resumed He lives in the Marais , Rue des Filles du Calvaire , with his grandfather . 
I do not recollect his name . 
Jean Valjean fumbled in Marius' coat , pulled out his pocket book , opened it at the page which Marius had pencilled , and held it out to Javert . 
There was still sufficient light to admit of reading . 
Besides this , Javert possessed in his eye the feline phosphorescence of night birds . 
He deciphered the few lines written by Marius , and muttered Gillenormand , Rue des Filles duCalvaire , No. . 
Then he exclaimed Coachman ! The reader will remember that the hackney coach was waiting in case of need . 
Javert kept Marius' pocket book . 
A moment later , the carriage , which had descended by the inclined plane of the watering place , was on the shore . 
Marius was laid upon the back seat , and Javert seated himself on the front seat beside Jean Valjean . 
The door slammed , and the carriage drove rapidly away , ascending the quays in the direction of the Bastille . 
They quitted the quays and entered the streets . 
The coachman , a black form on his box , whipped up his thin horses . 
A glacial silence reigned in the carriage . 
CHAPTER X RETURN OF THE SON WHO WAS PRODIGAL OF HIS LIFE At every jolt over the pavement , a drop of blood trickled from Marius' hair . 
Night had fully closed in when the carriage arrived at No. , Rue des Filles du Calvaire . 
The gate opened a little way and Javert gave it a push . 
The porter half made his appearance yawning , vaguely awake , and with a candle in his hand . 
Everyone in the house was asleep . 
People go to bed betimes in the Marais , especially on days when there is a revolt . 
This good , old quarter , terrified at the Revolution , takes refuge in slumber , as children , when they hear the Bugaboo coming , hide their heads hastily under their coverlet . 
In the meantime Jean Valjean and the coachman had taken Marius out of the carriage , Jean Valjean supporting him under the armpits , and the coachman under the knees . 
It was even beating a little less feebly , as though the movement of the carriage had brought about a certain fresh access of life . 
Javert addressed the porter in a tone befitting the government , and the presence of the porter of a factious person . 
Some person whose name is Gillenormand ? Here . 
What do you want with him ? His son is brought back . 
His son ? said the porter stupidly . 
The porter did not appear to understand either Javert's words or Jean Valjean's sign . 
Javert continued He went to the barricade , and here he is . 
To the barricade ? ejaculated the porter . 
He has got himself killed . 
The porter did not stir . 
Go along with you ! repeated Javert . 
And he added There will be a funeral here to morrow . 
The porter contented himself with waking Basque . 
Basque woke Nicolette Nicolette roused great aunt Gillenormand . 
As for the grandfather , they let him sleep on , thinking that he would hear about the matter early enough in any case . 
He understood and descended the stairs , having behind him the step of Javert who was following him . 
The porter watched them take their departure as he had watched their arrival , in terrified somnolence . 
They entered the carriage once more , and the coachman mounted his box . 
Inspector Javert , said Jean , grant me yet another favor . 
What is it ? demanded Javert roughly . 
Let me go home for one instant . 
Then you shall do whatever you like with me . 
CHAPTER XI CONCUSSION IN THE ABSOLUTE They did not open their lips again during the whole space of their ride . 
Suicide , that mysterious act of violence against the unknown which may contain , in a measure , the death of the soul , was impossible to Jean Valjean . 
At the entrance to the Rue de l'Homme Arme , the carriage halted , the way being too narrow to admit of the entrance of vehicles . 
Javert and Jean Valjean alighted . 
The coachman humbly represented to monsieur l'Inspecteur , that the Utrecht velvet of his carriage was all spotted with the blood of the assassinated man , and with mire from the assassin . 
That is the way he understood it . 
He added that an indemnity was due him . 
At the same time , drawing his certificate book from his pocket , he begged the inspector to have the goodness to write him a bit of an attestation . 
Eighty francs , Mr. Inspector . 
Javert drew four napoleons from his pocket and dismissed the carriage . 
It was deserted as usual . 
It is well , said Javert . 
He added with a strange expression , and as though he were exerting an effort in speaking in this manner I will wait for you here . 
Jean Valjean looked at Javert . 
This mode of procedure was but little in accord with Javert's habits . 
On arriving at the first floor , he paused . 
All sorrowful roads have their stations . 
The window on the landing place , which was a sash window , was open . 
As in many ancient houses , the staircase got its light from without and had a view on the street . 
The street lantern , situated directly opposite , cast some light on the stairs , and thus effected some economy in illumination . 
Jean Valjean , either for the sake of getting the air , or mechanically , thrust his head out of this window . 
He leaned out over the street . 
It is short , and the lantern lighted it from end to end . 
Jean Valjean was overwhelmed with amazement there was no longer any one there . 
Javert had taken his departure . 
The doctor who had been sent for had hastened thither . 
At the physician's orders , a camp bed had been prepared beside the sofa . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand , on perceiving that they were undressing Marius , withdrew . 
She set herself to telling her beads in her own chamber . 
The long , underground journey had completed the dislocation of the broken collar bone , and the disorder there was serious . 
The arms had been slashed with sabre cuts . 
A grave symptom was that they had caused a swoon , and that people do not always recover from such swoons . 
Moreover , the wounded man had been exhausted by hemorrhage . 
From the waist down , the barricade had protected the lower part of the body from injury . 
Basque and Nicolette tore up linen and prepared bandages Nicolette sewed them , Basque rolled them . 
As lint was lacking , the doctor , for the time being , arrested the bleeding with layers of wadding . 
Beside the bed , three candles burned on a table where the case of surgical instruments lay spread out . 
The doctor bathed Marius' face and hair with cold water . 
A full pail was reddened in an instant . 
The porter , candle in hand , lighted them . 
The doctor seemed to be pondering sadly . 
From time to time , he made a negative sign with his head , as though replying to some question which he had inwardly addressed to himself . 
A bad sign for the sick man are these mysterious dialogues of the doctor with himself . 
The revolt had , for the past two days , deeply agitated , enraged and engrossed the mind of M. Gillenormand . 
He had not been able to sleep on the previous night , and he had been in a fever all day long . 
In the evening , he had gone to bed very early , recommending that everything in the house should be well barred , and he had fallen into a doze through sheer fatigue . 
Old men sleep lightly M. Gillenormand's chamber adjoined the drawing room , and in spite of all the precautions that had been taken , the noise had awakened him . 
Surprised at the rift of light which he saw under his door , he had risen from his bed , and had groped his way thither . 
He went to the barricade , and . 
He is dead ! cried the old man in a terrible voice . 
Ah ! The rascal ! Then a sort of sepulchral transformation straightened up this centenarian as erect as a young man . 
Sir , said he , you are the doctor . 
Begin by telling me one thing . 
He is dead , is he not ? The doctor , who was at the highest pitch of anxiety , remained silent . 
M. Gillenormand wrung his hands with an outburst of terrible laughter . 
It is infamous ! Go to bed then and sleep tranquilly ! he is dead , and this is my awakening . 
The doctor , who was beginning to be uneasy in both quarters , quitted Marius for a moment , went to M. Gillenormand , and took his arm . 
The grandfather turned round , gazed at him with eyes which seemed exaggerated in size and bloodshot , and said to him calmly I thank you , sir . 
I am composed , I am a man , I witnessed the death of Louis XVI . 
, I know how to bear events . 
One thing is terrible and that is to think that it is your newspapers which do all the mischief . 
I see your cabriolet pass my window . 
I am going to tell you . 
You are wrong to think that I am angry . 
One does not fly into a rage against a dead man . 
This is a child whom I have reared . 
I was already old while he was very young . 
One day he exclaimed Down with Louis XVIII . 
! and off he went . 
It was no fault of mine . 
He was all rosy and blond . 
I remember when he was no higher than that . 
He could not manage to pronounce his Ds . 
He had a way of talking that was so sweet and indistinct that you would have thought it was a bird chirping . 
I talked in a deep voice , and I frightened him with my cane , but he knew very well that it was only to make him laugh . 
In the morning , when he entered my room , I grumbled , but he was like the sunlight to me , all the same . 
One cannot defend oneself against those brats . 
They take hold of you , they hold you fast , they never let you go again . 
The truth is , that there never was a cupid like that child . 
Now , what can you say for your Lafayettes , your Benjamin Constants , and your Tirecuir de Corcelles who have killed him ? This cannot be allowed to pass in this fashion . 
He approached Marius , who still lay livid and motionless , and to whom the physician had returned , and began once more to wring his hands . 
That will make two funerals under the same carriage gate . 
Perish in your corner , owl ! Well , after all , so much the better , that is what I was hoping for , this will kill me on the spot . 
I am too old , I am a hundred years old , I am a hundred thousand years old , I ought , by rights , to have been dead long ago . 
This blow puts an end to it . 
I know all about it , I am dead myself too . 
He hasn't done things by half . 
Marius ! cried the old man . 
JAVERT DERAILED CHAPTER I Javert passed slowly down the Rue de l'Homme Arme . 
He walked with drooping head for the first time in his life , and likewise , for the first time in his life , with his hands behind his back . 
Now , a change had taken place his whole person , slow and sombre , was stamped with anxiety . 
He plunged into the silent streets . 
Nevertheless , he followed one given direction . 
This point of the Seine is dreaded by mariners . 
Nothing is more dangerous than this rapid , hemmed in , at that epoch , and irritated by the piles of the mill on the bridge , now demolished . 
The two bridges , situated thus close together , augment the peril the water hurries in formidable wise through the arches . 
Men who fall in there never re appear the best of swimmers are drowned there . 
Javert leaned both elbows on the parapet , his chin resting in both hands , and , while his nails were mechanically twined in the abundance of his whiskers , he meditated . 
A novelty , a revolution , a catastrophe had just taken place in the depths of his being and he had something upon which to examine himself . 
Javert was undergoing horrible suffering . 
For several hours , Javert had ceased to be simple . 
He was troubled that brain , so limpid in its blindness , had lost its transparency that crystal was clouded . 
Javert felt duty divided within his conscience , and he could not conceal the fact from himself . 
And , the poignant anguish lay in this , that the two paths were contrary to each other . 
One of these straight lines excluded the other . 
Which of the two was the true one ? His situation was indescribable . 
Where did he stand ? He sought to comprehend his position , and could no longer find his bearings . 
What was he to do now ? To deliver up Jean Valjean was bad to leave Jean Valjean at liberty was bad . 
In both cases , dishonor for him , Javert . 
There was disgrace in any resolution at which he might arrive . 
Destiny has some extremities which rise perpendicularly from the impossible , and beyond which life is no longer anything but a precipice . 
Javert had reached one of those extremities . 
One of his anxieties consisted in being constrained to think . 
The very violence of all these conflicting emotions forced him to it . 
Thought was something to which he was unused , and which was peculiarly painful . 
In thought there always exists a certain amount of internal rebellion and it irritated him to have that within him . 
Nevertheless , it was indispensable that he should take a look into his conscience , after such shocks , and render to himself an account of himself . 
What he had just done made him shudder . 
Upon what should he decide ? One sole resource remained to him to return in all haste to the Rue de l'Homme Arme , and commit Jean Valjean to prison . 
It was clear that that was what he ought to do . 
Something barred his way in that direction . 
Something ? What ? Is there in the world , anything outside of the tribunals , executory sentences , the police and the authorities ? Javert was overwhelmed . 
The lesser fault was lost in the greater . 
Besides , that insurgent was , obviously , a dead man , and , legally , death puts an end to pursuit . 
Jean Valjean was the load which weighed upon his spirit . 
All the axioms which had served him as points of support all his life long , had crumbled away in the presence of this man . 
Jean Valjean's generosity towards him , Javert , crushed him . 
Other facts which he now recalled , and which he had formerly treated as lies and folly , now recurred to him as realities . 
M. Madeleine re appeared behind Jean Valjean , and the two figures were superposed in such fashion that they now formed but one , which was venerable . 
Javert felt that something terrible was penetrating his soul admiration for a convict . 
Respect for a galley slave is that a possible thing ? He shuddered at it , yet could not escape from it . 
In vain did he struggle , he was reduced to confess , in his inmost heart , the sublimity of that wretch . 
Javert was constrained to admit to himself that this monster existed . 
Things could not go on in this manner . 
Twenty times , as he sat in that carriage face to face with Jean Valjean , the legal tiger had roared within him . 
A score of times he had been tempted to fling himself upon Jean Valjean , to seize him and devour him , that is to say , to arrest him . 
This man is forever a prisoner of the law the law may do with him what it will . 
Then have the basin of Pontius Pilate brought and wash your claws . 
Then his reflections reverted to himself and beside Jean Valjean glorified he beheld himself , Javert , degraded . 
A convict was his benefactor ! But then , why had he permitted that man to leave him alive ? He had the right to be killed in that barricade . 
He should have asserted that right . 
It would have been better to summon the other insurgents to his succor against Jean Valjean , to get himself shot by force . 
His supreme anguish was the loss of certainty . 
He felt that he had been uprooted . 
The code was no longer anything more than a stump in his hand . 
He had to deal with scruples of an unknown species . 
There had taken place within him a sentimental revelation entirely distinct from legal affirmation , his only standard of measurement hitherto . 
To remain in his former uprightness did not suffice . 
A whole order of unexpected facts had cropped up and subjugated him . 
He perceived amid the shadows the terrible rising of an unknown moral sun it horrified and dazzled him . 
An owl forced to the gaze of an eagle . 
He was forced to acknowledge that goodness did exist . 
This convict had been good . 
And he himself , unprecedented circumstance , had just been good also . 
So he was becoming depraved . 
He found that he was a coward . 
He conceived a horror of himself . 
Javert's ideal , was not to be human , to be grand , to be sublime it was to be irreproachable . 
Now , he had just failed in this . 
How had he come to such a pass ? How had all this happened ? He could not have told himself . 
He clasped his head in both hands , but in spite of all that he could do , he could not contrive to explain it to himself . 
He had certainly always entertained the intention of restoring Jean Valjean to the law of which Jean Valjean was the captive , and of which he , Javert , was the slave . 
Not for a single instant while he held him in his grasp had he confessed to himself that he entertained the idea of releasing him . 
It was , in some sort , without his consciousness , that his hand had relaxed and had let him go free . 
All sorts of interrogation points flashed before his eyes . 
He put questions to himself , and made replies to himself , and his replies frightened him . 
And I in showing mercy upon him in my turn what have I done ? My duty ? No. Something more . 
Being , and here we employ words without the least irony and in their most serious acceptation , being , as we have said , a spy as other men are priests . 
He had a superior , M. Gisquet up to that day he had never dreamed of that other superior , God . 
This new chief , God , he became unexpectedly conscious of , and he felt embarrassed by him . 
He had just shut his eyes on an escaped convict who had broken his ban . 
He had just set a galley slave at large . 
He had just robbed the laws of a man who belonged to them . 
That was what he had done . 
He no longer understood himself . 
The very reasons for his action escaped him only their vertigo was left with him . 
Up to that moment he had lived with that blind faith which gloomy probity engenders . 
This faith had quitted him , this probity had deserted him . 
All that he had believed in melted away . 
Truths which he did not wish to recognize were besieging him , inexorably . 
Henceforth , he must be a different man . 
He was suffering from the strange pains of a conscience abruptly operated on for the cataract . 
He saw that which it was repugnant to him to behold . 
He felt himself emptied , useless , put out of joint with his past life , turned out , dissolved . 
Authority was dead within him . 
He had no longer any reason for existing . 
A terrible situation ! to be touched . 
But beneath the pressure of that incontestable incomprehensibility he felt his brain bursting . 
He was less the man transfigured than the victim of this prodigy . 
In all this he perceived only the tremendous difficulty of existence . 
It seemed to him that , henceforth , his respiration was repressed forever . 
He was not accustomed to having something unknown hanging over his head . 
Javert had never beheld the unknown except from below . 
Now Javert threw himself back , and he was suddenly terrified by this unprecedented apparition a gulf on high . 
It was abominable that actual facts could reach such deformity . 
If facts did their duty , they would confine themselves to being proofs of the law facts it is God who sends them . 
Was this to be endured ? No. A violent state , if ever such existed . 
There were only two ways of escaping from it . 
One was to go resolutely to Jean Valjean , and restore to his cell the convict from the galleys . 
On arriving there , he saw through the window a sergeant of police , and he entered . 
Policemen recognize each other by the very way in which they open the door of a station house . 
Javert mentioned his name , showed his card to the sergeant , and seated himself at the table of the post on which a candle was burning . 
On a table lay a pen , a leaden inkstand and paper , provided in the event of possible reports and the orders of the night patrols . 
It is there that the literature of the State has its beginning . 
Javert took a pen and a sheet of paper , and began to write . 
This is what he wrote A FEW OBSERVATIONS FOR THE GOOD OF THE SERVICE . 
In the first place I beg Monsieur le Prefet to cast his eyes on this . 
Secondly prisoners , on arriving after examination , take off their shoes and stand barefoot on the flagstones while they are being searched . 
Many of them cough on their return to prison . 
Fourthly it is inexplicable why the special regulation of the prison of the Madelonettes interdicts the prisoner from having a chair , even by paying for it . 
Fifthly in the Madelonettes there are only two bars to the canteen , so that the canteen woman can touch the prisoners with her hand . 
Sixthly the prisoners called barkers , who summon the other prisoners to the parlor , force the prisoner to pay them two sous to call his name distinctly . 
Seventhly for a broken thread ten sous are withheld in the weaving shop this is an abuse of the contractor , since the cloth is none the worse for it . 
Eighthly it is annoying for visitors to La Force to be obliged to traverse the boys' court in order to reach the parlor of Sainte Marie l'Egyptienne . 
Ninthly it is a fact that any day gendarmes can be overheard relating in the court yard of the prefecture the interrogations put by the magistrates to prisoners . 
For a gendarme , who should be sworn to secrecy , to repeat what he has heard in the examination room is a grave disorder . 
Henry is an honest woman her canteen is very neat but it is bad to have a woman keep the wicket to the mouse trap of the secret cells . 
This is unworthy of the Conciergerie of a great civilization . 
Javert wrote these lines in his calmest and most correct chirography , not omitting a single comma , and making the paper screech under his pen . 
Below the last line he signed JAVERT , Inspector of the st class . 
The Post of the Place du Chatelet . 
June th , , about one o'clock in the morning . 
The glazed and grated door fell to behind him . 
He did not appear to have stirred . 
It was the sepulchral moment which follows midnight . 
A ceiling of clouds concealed the stars . 
A street lantern reddened the margin of the quay . 
The outlines of the bridges lay shapeless in the mist one behind the other . 
Recent rains had swollen the river . 
Javert bent his head and gazed . 
Nothing was to be distinguished . 
A sound of foam was audible but the river could not be seen . 
The light vanished , and all became indistinct once more . 
Immensity seemed thrown open there . 
What lay below was not water , it was a gulf . 
The wall of the quay , abrupt , confused , mingled with the vapors , instantly concealed from sight , produced the effect of an escarpment of the infinite . 
Nothing was to be seen , but the hostile chill of the water and the stale odor of the wet stones could be felt . 
A fierce breath rose from this abyss . 
Javert remained motionless for several minutes , gazing at this opening of shadow he considered the invisible with a fixity that resembled attention . 
All at once he took off his hat and placed it on the edge of the quay . 
GRANDSON AND GRANDFATHER CHAPTER I IN WHICH THE TREE WITH THE ZINC PLASTER APPEARS AGAIN Some time after the events which we have just recorded , Sieur Boulatruelle experienced a lively emotion . 
Sieur Boulatruelle was that road mender of Montfermeil whom the reader has already seen in the gloomy parts of this book . 
Boulatruelle , as the reader may , perchance , recall , was a man who was occupied with divers and troublesome matters . 
He broke stones and damaged travellers on the highway . 
Road mender and thief as he was , he cherished one dream he believed in the treasures buried in the forest of Montfermeil . 
He hoped some day to find the money in the earth at the foot of a tree in the meanwhile , he lived to search the pockets of passers by . 
Nevertheless , for an instant , he was prudent . 
He had just escaped neatly . 
He had been , as the reader is aware , picked up in Jondrette's garret in company with the other ruffians . 
Utility of a vice his drunkenness had been his salvation . 
The authorities had never been able to make out whether he had been there in the quality of a robber or a man who had been robbed . 
An order of nolle prosequi , founded on his well authenticated state of intoxication on the evening of the ambush , had set him at liberty . 
He had taken to his heels . 
Boulatruelle , although intoxicated , had a correct and lucid memory , a defensive arm that is indispensable to any one who is at all in conflict with legal order . 
Where the deuce have I seen something like that man yonder ? he said to himself . 
But he could make himself no answer , except that the man resembled some one of whom his memory preserved a confused trace . 
However , apart from the identity which he could not manage to catch , Boulatruelle put things together and made calculations . 
This man did not belong in the country side . 
He had just arrived there . 
No public conveyance passes through Montfermeil at that hour . 
He had walked all night . 
Whence came he ? Not from a very great distance for he had neither haversack , nor bundle . 
From Paris , no doubt . 
Why was he in these woods ? why was he there at such an hour ? what had he come there for ? Boulatruelle thought of the treasure . 
By the deuce , said Boulatruelle , I'll find him again . 
I'll discover the parish of that parishioner . 
This prowler of Patron Minette has a reason , and I'll know it . 
People can't have secrets in my forest if I don't have a finger in the pie . 
He took his pick axe which was very sharply pointed . 
There now , he grumbled , is something that will search the earth and a man . 
When he had compassed a hundred strides , the day , which was already beginning to break , came to his assistance . 
He followed it , then lost it . 
He plunged deeper into the woods and came to a sort of eminence . 
An early huntsman who was passing in the distance along a path , whistling the air of Guillery , suggested to him the idea of climbing a tree . 
Old as he was , he was agile . 
There stood close at hand a beech tree of great size , worthy of Tityrus and of Boulatruelle . 
Boulatruelle ascended the beech as high as he was able . 
The idea was a good one . 
On scrutinizing the solitary waste on the side where the forest is thoroughly entangled and wild , Boulatruelle suddenly caught sight of his man . 
Hardly had he got his eye upon him when he lost sight of him . 
This glade was the one which was formerly called the Blaru bottom . 
The heap of stones , destined for no one knows what employment , which was visible there thirty years ago , is doubtless still there . 
Nothing equals a heap of stones in longevity , unless it is a board fence . 
What a reason for lasting ! Boulatruelle , with the rapidity of joy , dropped rather than descended from the tree . 
The lair was unearthed , the question now was to seize the beast . 
That famous treasure of his dreams was probably there . 
It was no small matter to reach that glade . 
By the beaten paths , which indulge in a thousand teasing zigzags , it required a good quarter of an hour . 
In a bee line , through the underbrush , which is peculiarly dense , very thorny , and very aggressive in that locality , a full half hour was necessary . 
Boulatruelle committed the error of not comprehending this . 
He believed in the straight line a respectable optical illusion which ruins many a man . 
The thicket , bristling as it was , struck him as the best road . 
Let's take to the wolves' Rue de Rivoli , said he . 
Boulatruelle , accustomed to taking crooked courses , was on this occasion guilty of the fault of going straight . 
He flung himself resolutely into the tangle of undergrowth . 
He had to deal with holly bushes , nettles , hawthorns , eglantines , thistles , and very irascible brambles . 
At the bottom of the ravine he found water which he was obliged to traverse . 
At last he reached the Blaru bottom , after the lapse of forty minutes , sweating , soaked , breathless , scratched , and ferocious . 
There was no one in the glade . 
Boulatruelle rushed to the heap of stones . 
It was in its place . 
It had not been carried off . 
As for the man , he had vanished in the forest . 
He had made his escape . 
Where ? in what direction ? into what thicket ? Impossible to guess . 
Thief ! shrieked Boulatruelle , shaking his fist at the horizon . 
CHAPTER II MARIUS , EMERGING FROM CIVIL WAR , MAKES READY FOR DOMESTIC WAR For a long time , Marius was neither dead nor alive . 
He repeated Cosette's name for whole nights in the melancholy loquacity of fever , and with the sombre obstinacy of agony . 
Above all things , he repeated , let the wounded man be subjected to no emotion . 
The dressing of the wounds was complicated and difficult , the fixation of apparatus and bandages by cerecloths not having been invented as yet , at that epoch . 
Nicolette used up a sheet as big as the ceiling , as she put it , for lint . 
It was not without difficulty that the chloruretted lotions and the nitrate of silver overcame the gangrene . 
As long as there was any danger , M. Gillenormand , seated in despair at his grandson's pillow , was , like Marius , neither alive nor dead . 
But Marius was forced to remain for two months more stretched out on a long chair , on account of the results called up by the fracture of his collar bone . 
There always is a last wound like that which will not close , and which prolongs the dressings indefinitely , to the great annoyance of the sick person . 
However , this long illness and this long convalescence saved him from all pursuit . 
In France , there is no wrath , not even of a public character , which six months will not extinguish . 
Revolts , in the present state of society , are so much the fault of every one , that they are followed by a certain necessity of shutting the eyes . 
So Marius was left in peace . 
M. Gillenormand first passed through all manner of anguish , and then through every form of ecstasy . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand , like a sage and elderly person , contrived to spare the fine linen , while allowing the grandfather to think that he was obeyed . 
He was present at all the dressings of the wounds from which Mademoiselle Gillenormand modestly absented herself . 
He overwhelmed the doctor with questions . 
He did not observe that he asked the same ones over and over again . 
On the day when the doctor announced to him that Marius was out of danger , the good man was in a delirium . 
He made his porter a present of three louis . 
Narquois ! Moi , je la chante , et j'aime , Plus que Diane meme , Jeanne et ses durs tetons Bretons . 
Jeanne was born at Fougere , a true shepherd's nest I adore her petticoat , the rogue . 
Then he knelt upon a chair , and Basque , who was watching him through the half open door , made sure that he was praying . 
Up to that time , he had not believed in God . 
At each succeeding phase of improvement , which became more and more pronounced , the grandfather raved . 
He executed a multitude of mechanical actions full of joy he ascended and descended the stairs , without knowing why . 
A pretty female neighbor was amazed one morning at receiving a big bouquet it was M. Gillenormand who had sent it to her . 
The husband made a jealous scene . 
M. Gillenormand tried to draw Nicolette upon his knees . 
He called Marius , M. le Baron . 
He shouted Long live the Republic ! Every moment , he kept asking the doctor Is he no longer in danger ? He gazed upon Marius with the eyes of a grandmother . 
He brooded over him while he ate . 
He no longer knew himself , he no longer rendered himself an account of himself . 
Marius was the master of the house , there was abdication in his joy , he was the grandson of his grandson . 
In the state of joy in which he then was , he was the most venerable of children . 
In his fear lest he might fatigue or annoy the convalescent , he stepped behind him to smile . 
He was content , joyous , delighted , charming , young . 
His white locks added a gentle majesty to the gay radiance of his visage . 
When grace is mingled with wrinkles , it is adorable . 
There is an indescribable aurora in beaming old age . 
As for Marius , as he allowed them to dress his wounds and care for him , he had but one fixed idea Cosette . 
After the fever and delirium had left him , he did not again pronounce her name , and it might have been supposed that he no longer thought of her . 
He held his peace , precisely because his soul was there . 
For him , the idea of life was not distinct from the idea of Cosette . 
He did not conceal from himself the fact that obstacles existed . 
Let us here emphasize one detail , he was not won over and was but little softened by all the solicitude and tenderness of his grandfather . 
The grandfather absolutely wasted his poor old smile . 
Violent resistance conclusion a refusal . 
Marius stiffened himself in advance . 
And with health , there returned to him a sort of harshness towards his grandfather . 
The old man was gently pained by this . 
Obviously , a crisis was approaching . 
As almost always happens in such cases , Marius skirmished before giving battle , by way of proving himself . 
This is called feeling the ground . 
The men of were giants , said Marius with severity . 
The old man held his peace , and uttered not a sound during the remainder of that day . 
His wounds were his munitions of war . 
He would have Cosette or die . 
He awaited the propitious moment with the crafty patience of the sick . 
A fried sole is excellent to begin a convalescence with , but a good cutlet is needed to put a sick man on his feet . 
What is it ? That I wish to marry . 
Agreed , said his grandfather . 
And he burst out laughing . 
How agreed ? Yes , agreed . 
You shall have your little girl . 
Marius , stunned and overwhelmed with the dazzling shock , trembled in every limb . 
M. Gillenormand went on Yes , you shall have her , that pretty little girl of yours . 
She comes every day in the shape of an old gentleman to inquire after you . 
Ever since you were wounded , she has passed her time in weeping and making lint . 
She lives in the Rue de l'Homme Arme , No. . 
Ah ! There we have it ! Ah ! so you want her ! Well , you shall have her . 
Ah ! you take the cockchafer by the horns . 
I offer you a cutlet and you answer me By the way , I want to marry . 
There's a transition for you ! Ah ! you reckoned on a bickering ! You do not know that I am an old coward . 
Well , so much the worse , rage away . 
I'll do whatever you wish , and that cuts you short , imbecile ! Listen . 
What would your aunt have said to it ? You were nude three quarters of the time , my good fellow . 
Ask Nicolette , who has not left you for a moment , if there was any possibility of having a woman here . 
And then , what would the doctor have said ? A pretty girl does not cure a man of fever . 
In short , it's all right , let us say no more about it , all's said , all's done , it's all settled , take her . 
You see , I perceived that you did not love me . 
Not a bit of it . 
Cosette , so be it love , so be it I ask nothing better . 
Pray take the trouble of getting married , sir . 
Be happy , my well beloved child . 
That said , the old man burst forth into sobs . 
And he seized Marius' head , and pressed it with both arms against his breast , and both fell to weeping . 
This is one of the forms of supreme happiness . 
Ah , so you love me ! said the old man . 
They were choking and could not speak . 
At length the old man stammered Come ! his mouth is unstopped at last . 
He has said Father' to me . 
Marius disengaged his head from his grandfather's arms , and said gently But , father , now that I am quite well , it seems to me that I might see her . 
Agreed again , you shall see her to morrow . 
Father ! What ? Why not to day ? Well , to day then . 
Let it be to day . 
You have called me father' three times , and it is worth it . 
I will attend to it . 
She shall be brought hither . 
Agreed , I tell you . 
It has already been put into verse . 
This is the ending of the elegy of the Jeune Malade' by Andre Chenier , by Andre Chenier whose throat was cut by the ras . 
The grandfather , trembling at having so inopportunely introduced Andre Chenier , resumed precipitately Cut his throat is not the word . 
that is to say , those great men on the th of Thermidor , besought Andre Chenier , in the interests of public safety , to be so good as to go . 
M. Gillenormand , clutched by the throat by his own phrase , could not proceed . 
CHAPTER IV MADEMOISELLE GILLENORMAND ENDS BY NO LONGER THINKING IT A BAD THING THAT M. FAUCHELEVENT SHOULD HAVE ENTERED WITH SOMETHING UNDER HIS ARM Cosette and Marius beheld each other once more . 
What that interview was like we decline to say . 
There are things which one must not attempt to depict the sun is one of them . 
The entire family , including Basque and Nicolette , were assembled in Marius' chamber at the moment when Cosette entered it . 
Precisely at that moment , the grandfather was on the point of blowing his nose he stopped short , holding his nose in his handkerchief , and gazing over it at Cosette . 
She appeared on the threshold it seemed to him that she was surrounded by a glory . 
Then he blew his nose noisily . 
Cosette was intoxicated , delighted , frightened , in heaven . 
She was as thoroughly alarmed as any one can be by happiness . 
She stammered all pale , yet flushed , she wanted to fling herself into Marius' arms , and dared not . 
Ashamed of loving in the presence of all these people . 
People are pitiless towards happy lovers they remain when the latter most desire to be left alone . 
Lovers have no need of any people whatever . 
With Cosette , and behind her , there had entered a man with white hair who was grave yet smiling , though with a vague and heartrending smile . 
It was Monsieur Fauchelevent it was Jean Valjean . 
He was very well dressed , as the porter had said , entirely in black , in perfectly new garments , and with a white cravat . 
M. Fauchelevent in Marius' chamber , remained apart near the door . 
He had under his arm , a package which bore considerable resemblance to an octavo volume enveloped in paper . 
The enveloping paper was of a greenish hue , and appeared to be mouldy . 
Does the gentleman always have books like that under his arm ? Mademoiselle Gillenormand , who did not like books , demanded in a low tone of Nicolette . 
Well , retorted M. Gillenormand , who had overheard her , in the same tone , he's a learned man . 
And , with a bow , he said aloud Monsieur Tranchelevent . 
Father Gillenormand did not do it intentionally , but inattention to proper names was an aristocratic habit of his . 
Monsieur Tranchelevent , I have the honor of asking you , on behalf of my grandson , Baron Marius Pontmercy , for the hand of Mademoiselle . 
That's settled , said the grandfather . 
And , turning to Marius and Cosette , with both arms extended in blessing , he cried Permission to adore each other ! They did not require him to repeat it twice . 
So much the worse ! the chirping began . 
Marius , resting on his elbow on his reclining chair , Cosette standing beside him . 
I have been dead for four months . 
Oh ! how wicked it was of you to go to that battle ! What had I done to you ? I pardon you , but you will never do it again . 
A little while ago , when they came to tell us to come to you , I still thought that I was about to die , but it was from joy . 
We are still in the Rue de l'Homme Arme . 
It seems that your shoulder was terrible . 
They told me that you could put your fist in it . 
And then , it seems that they cut your flesh with the scissors . 
I have cried till I have no eyes left . 
It is queer that a person can suffer like that . 
Your grandfather has a very kindly air . 
Don't disturb yourself , don't rise on your elbow , you will injure yourself . 
Oh ! how happy I am ! So our unhappiness is over ! I am quite foolish . 
I had things to say to you , and I no longer know in the least what they were . 
Do you still love me ? We live in the Rue de l'Homme Arme . 
I made lint all the time stay , sir , look , it is your fault , I have a callous on my fingers . 
Angel is the only word in the language which cannot be worn out . 
No other word could resist the merciless use which lovers make of it . 
Then as there were spectators , they paused and said not a word more , contenting themselves with softly touching each other's hands . 
M. Gillenormand turned towards those who were in the room and cried Talk loud , the rest of you . 
Make a noise , you people behind the scenes . 
Come , a little uproar , the deuce ! so that the children can chatter at their ease . 
And , approaching Marius and Cosette , he said to them in a very low voice Call each other thou . 
Aunt Gillenormand looked on in amazement at this irruption of light in her elderly household . 
Mademoiselle Gillenormand senior , said her father to her , I told you that this is what would happen to you . 
He remained silent for a moment , and then added Look at the happiness of others . 
Then he turned to Cosette . 
How pretty she is ! how pretty she is ! She's a Greuze . 
Come now ! I am in love with you , mademoiselle . 
You are in the right . 
It was built by the Jesuits . 
It is opposite the fountain of Cardinal de Birague . 
The masterpiece of Jesuit architecture is at Namur . 
It is called Saint Loup . 
You must go there after you are married . 
It is worth the journey . 
Mademoiselle , I am quite of your mind , I think girls ought to marry that is what they are made for . 
There is a certain Sainte Catherine whom I should always like to see uncoiffed . 
It's a fine thing to remain a spinster , but it is chilly . 
In order to save the people , Jeanne d'Arc is needed but in order to make people , what is needed is Mother Goose . 
So , marry , my beauties . 
Thus , hemming in the course of thy musings , Alcippus , it is true that thou wilt wed ere long . 
By the way ! What is it , father ? Have not you an intimate friend ? Yes , Courfeyrac . 
What has become of him ? He is dead . 
He seated himself near them , made Cosette sit down , and took their four hands in his aged and wrinkled hands She is exquisite , this darling . 
She's a masterpiece , this Cosette ! She is a very little girl and a very great lady . 
She will only be a Baroness , which is a come down for her she was born a Marquise . 
What eyelashes she has ! Get it well fixed in your noddles , my children , that you are in the true road . 
Love is the folly of men and the wit of God . 
Tirer le diable par la queue , to live from hand to mouth . 
At this point they heard a grave and tranquil voice say Mademoiselle Euphrasie Fauchelevent possesses six hundred thousand francs . 
It was the voice of Jean Valjean . 
What has Mademoiselle Euphrasie to do with the question ? inquired the startled grandfather . 
I am she , replied Cosette . 
Six hundred thousand francs ? resumed M. Gillenormand . 
Minus fourteen or fifteen thousand francs , possibly , said Jean Valjean . 
And he laid on the table the package which Mademoiselle Gillenormand had mistaken for a book . 
Jean Valjean himself opened the package it was a bundle of bank notes . 
They were turned over and counted . 
There were five hundred notes for a thousand francs each , and one hundred and sixty eight of five hundred . 
In all , five hundred and eighty four thousand francs . 
This is a fine book , said M. Gillenormand . 
Five hundred and eighty four thousand francs ! murmured the aunt . 
This arranges things well , does it not , Mademoiselle Gillenormand senior ? said the grandfather . 
Cherubino works better than Rothschild . 
Five hundred and eighty four thousand francs ! repeated Mademoiselle Gillenormand , in a low tone . 
In the same coffer he had placed his other treasures , the Bishop's candlesticks . 
It will be remembered that he had carried off the candlesticks when he made his escape from Montreuil sur Mer . 
The man seen one evening for the first time by Boulatruelle , was Jean Valjean . 
Later on , every time that Jean Valjean needed money , he went to get it in the Blaru bottom . 
Hence the absences which we have mentioned . 
He had a pickaxe somewhere in the heather , in a hiding place known to himself alone . 
The actual sum was five hundred and eighty four thousand , five hundred francs . 
Jean Valjean withdrew the five hundred francs for himself . 
We shall see hereafter , he thought . 
The difference between that sum and the six hundred and thirty thousand francs withdrawn from Laffitte represented his expenditure in ten years , from to . 
The five years of his stay in the convent had cost only five thousand francs . 
Jean Valjean set the two candlesticks on the chimney piece , where they glittered to the great admiration of Toussaint . 
Moreover , Jean Valjean knew that he was delivered from Javert . 
In fact , thought Jean Valjean , since he left me at liberty , once having got me in his power , he must have been already mad . 
CHAPTER VI THE TWO OLD MEN DO EVERYTHING , EACH ONE AFTER HIS OWN FASHION , TO RENDER COSETTE HAPPY Everything was made ready for the wedding . 
The doctor , on being consulted , declared that it might take place in February . 
A few ravishing weeks of perfect happiness passed . 
The grandfather was not the least happy of them all . 
He remained for a quarter of an hour at a time gazing at Cosette . 
The wonderful , beautiful girl ! he exclaimed . 
And she has so sweet and good an air ! she is , without exception , the most charming girl that I have ever seen in my life . 
Later on , she'll have virtues with an odor of violets . 
How graceful ! one cannot live otherwise than nobly with such a creature . 
Marius , my boy , you are a Baron , you are rich , don't go to pettifogging , I beg of you . 
Cosette and Marius had passed abruptly from the sepulchre to paradise . 
The transition had not been softened , and they would have been stunned , had they not been dazzled by it . 
Do you understand anything about it ? said Marius to Cosette . 
No , replied Cosette , but it seems to me that the good God is caring for us . 
Jean Valjean did everything , smoothed away every difficulty , arranged everything , made everything easy . 
He hastened towards Cosette's happiness with as much ardor , and , apparently with as much joy , as Cosette herself . 
As he had been a mayor , he understood how to solve that delicate problem , with the secret of which he alone was acquainted , Cosette's civil status . 
If he were to announce her origin bluntly , it might prevent the marriage , who knows ? He extricated Cosette from all difficulties . 
He concocted for her a family of dead people , a sure means of not encountering any objections . 
Cosette was the only scion of an extinct family Cosette was not his own daughter , but the daughter of the other Fauchelevent . 
Two brothers Fauchelevent had been gardeners to the convent of the Petit Picpus . 
They said what was wanted and they said it with zeal . 
An acte de notoriete was drawn up . 
Cosette became in the eyes of the law , Mademoiselle Euphrasie Fauchelevent . 
She was declared an orphan , both father and mother being dead . 
Jean Valjean so arranged it that he was appointed , under the name of Fauchelevent , as Cosette's guardian , with M. Gillenormand as supervising guardian over him . 
As for the five hundred and eighty thousand francs , they constituted a legacy bequeathed to Cosette by a dead person , who desired to remain unknown . 
This legacy , deposited in the hands of a third party , was to be turned over to Cosette at her majority , or at the date of her marriage . 
This , taken as a whole , was very acceptable , as the reader will perceive , especially when the sum due was half a million . 
Cosette learned that she was not the daughter of that old man whom she had so long called father . 
He was merely a kinsman another Fauchelevent was her real father . 
At any other time this would have broken her heart . 
The young man arrived , the old man was effaced such is life . 
And then , Cosette had , for long years , been habituated to seeing enigmas around her every being who has had a mysterious childhood is always prepared for certain renunciations . 
Nevertheless , she continued to call Jean Valjean Father . 
Cosette , happy as the angels , was enthusiastic over Father Gillenormand . 
It is true that he overwhelmed her with gallant compliments and presents . 
While Jean Valjean was building up for Cosette a normal situation in society and an unassailable status , M. Gillenormand was superintending the basket of wedding gifts . 
Nothing so amused him as being magnificent . 
He had given to Cosette a robe of Binche guipure which had descended to him from his own grandmother . 
These fashions come up again , said he , ancient things are the rage , and the young women of my old age dress like the old women of my childhood . 
He rifled his respectable chests of drawers in Coromandel lacquer , with swelling fronts , which had not been opened for years . 
Let us hear the confession of these dowagers , he said , let us see what they have in their paunches . 
He noisily violated the pot bellied drawers of all his wives , of all his mistresses and of all his grandmothers . 
Cosette , amazed , desperately in love with Marius , and wild with gratitude towards M. Gillenormand , dreamed of a happiness without limit clothed in satin and velvet . 
Her wedding basket seemed to her to be upheld by seraphim . 
Her soul flew out into the azure depths , with wings of Mechlin lace . 
The intoxication of the lovers was only equalled , as we have already said , by the ecstasy of the grandfather . 
A sort of flourish of trumpets went on in the Rue des Filles du Calvaire . 
Every morning , a fresh offering of bric a brac from the grandfather to Cosette . 
All possible knickknacks glittered around her . 
Moire antique ! exclaimed the old gentleman . 
That is precisely the idea of which I was in search . 
And on the following day , a magnificent dress of tea rose colored moire antique was added to Cosette's wedding presents . 
From these fripperies , the grandfather extracted a bit of wisdom . 
Love is all very well but there must be something else to go with it . 
The useless must be mingled with happiness . 
Happiness is only the necessary . 
Season that enormously with the superfluous for me . 
A palace and her heart . 
Her heart and the Louvre . 
Her heart and the grand waterworks of Versailles . 
Give me my shepherdess and try to make her a duchess . 
Fetch me Phyllis crowned with corn flowers , and add a hundred thousand francs income . 
Open for me a bucolic perspective as far as you can see , beneath a marble colonnade . 
I consent to the bucolic and also to the fairy spectacle of marble and gold . 
Dry happiness resembles dry bread . 
One eats , but one does not dine . 
I want the superfluous , the useless , the extravagant , excess , that which serves no purpose . 
Without reckoning delicious chimes which it sprinkled through the air , on every occasion , without any one's knowing why . 
M. Gillenormand talked nonsense in connection with the wedding , and all the fripperies of the eighteenth century passed pell mell through his dithyrambs . 
You are ignorant of the art of festivals . 
You do not know how to organize a day of enjoyment in this age , he exclaimed . 
Your nineteenth century is weak . 
It ignores the rich , it ignores the noble . 
In everything it is clean shaven . 
Your third estate is insipid , colorless , odorless , and shapeless . 
The dreams of your bourgeois who set up , as they express it a pretty boudoir freshly decorated , violet , ebony and calico . 
Make way ! Make way ! the Sieur Curmudgeon is marrying Mademoiselle Clutch penny . 
A louis d'or has been stuck to a candle . 
There's the epoch for you . 
My demand is that I may flee from it beyond the Sarmatians . 
In this century , men attend to business , they gamble on 'Change , they win money , they are stingy . 
I grant to this age the device Dirty Cleanliness . 
He who loves well lashes well . 
Thereupon , I say plainly , that now a days people marry , but that they no longer know how to marry . 
Ah ! it is true , I regret the grace of the ancient manners . 
I regret the bride's garter . 
The bride's garter is cousin to the girdle of Venus . 
With Cosette's garter , Homer would construct the Iliad . 
He would put in his poem , a loquacious old fellow , like me , and he would call him Nestor . 
My friends , in bygone days , in those amiable days of yore , people married wisely they had a good contract , and then they had a good carouse . 
As soon as Cujas had taken his departure , Gamacho entered . 
But , in sooth ! the stomach is an agreeable beast which demands its due , and which wants to have its wedding also . 
People supped well , and had at table a beautiful neighbor without a guimpe so that her throat was only moderately concealed . 
People thought much of looking well . 
They embroidered and tinted themselves . 
A bourgeois had the air of a flower , a Marquis had the air of a precious stone . 
People had no straps to their boots , they had no boots . 
They were spruce , shining , waved , lustrous , fluttering , dainty , coquettish , which did not at all prevent their wearing swords by their sides . 
The humming bird has beak and claws . 
That was the day of the Galland Indies . 
One of the sides of that century was delicate , the other was magnificent and by the green cabbages ! people amused themselves . 
To day , people are serious . 
The bourgeois is avaricious , the bourgeoise is a prude your century is unfortunate . 
People would drive away the Graces as being too low in the neck . 
Alas ! beauty is concealed as though it were ugliness . 
Since the revolution , everything , including the ballet dancers , has had its trousers a mountebank dancer must be grave your rigadoons are doctrinarian . 
It is necessary to be majestic . 
People would be greatly annoyed if they did not carry their chins in their cravats . 
The ideal of an urchin of twenty when he marries , is to resemble M. Royer Collard . 
And do you know what one arrives at with that majesty ? at being petty . 
Learn this joy is not only joyous it is great . 
But , as soon as the mass is finished , sarpejou ! you must make a dream whirl around the bride . 
A marriage should be royal and chimerical it should promenade its ceremony from the cathedral of Rheims to the pagoda of Chanteloup . 
I have a horror of a paltry wedding . 
Ventregoulette ! be in Olympus for that one day , at least . 
Be one of the gods . 
Ah ! people might be sylphs . 
Games and Laughter , argiraspides they are stupids . 
My friends , every recently made bridegroom ought to be Prince Aldobrandini . 
Don't economize on the nuptials , do not prune them of their splendors don't scrimp on the day when you beam . 
The wedding is not the housekeeping . 
Oh ! if I were to carry out my fancy , it would be gallant , violins would be heard under the trees . 
Here is my programme sky blue and silver . 
I would mingle with the festival the rural divinities , I would convoke the Dryads and the Nereids . 
The nuptials of Amphitrite , a rosy cloud , nymphs with well dressed locks and entirely naked , an Academician offering quatrains to the goddess , a chariot drawn by marine monsters . 
Aunt Gillenormand surveyed all this with her imperturbable placidity . 
Within the last five or six months she had experienced a certain amount of emotions . 
The six hundred thousand francs had been her last surprise . 
Then , her indifference of a girl taking her first communion returned to her . 
This devotion , as Father Gillenormand said to his daughter , corresponds to a cold in the head . 
You smell nothing of life . 
Neither any bad , nor any good odor . 
Moreover , the six hundred thousand francs had settled the elderly spinster's indecision . 
Her father had acquired the habit of taking her so little into account , that he had not consulted her in the matter of consent to Marius' marriage . 
He had acted impetuously , according to his wont , having , a despot turned slave , but a single thought , to satisfy Marius . 
She was rich , in fact , and her father was not . 
She had reserved her decision on this point . 
It is probable that , had the match been a poor one , she would have left him poor . 
It was arranged that the couple should live with the grandfather M. Gillenormand insisted on resigning to them his chamber , the finest in the house . 
That will make me young again , he said . 
It's an old plan of mine . 
I have always entertained the idea of having a wedding in my chamber . 
He furnished this chamber with a multitude of elegant trifles . 
It was with that stuff , said he , that the bed of the Duchesse d'Anville at la Roche Guyon was draped . 
On the chimney piece , he set a little figure in Saxe porcelain , carrying a muff against her nude stomach . 
M. Gillenormand's library became the lawyer's study , which Marius needed a study , it will be remembered , being required by the council of the order . 
CHAPTER VII THE EFFECTS OF DREAMS MINGLED WITH HAPPINESS The lovers saw each other every day . 
Cosette came with M. Fauchelevent . 
This is reversing things , said Mademoiselle Gillenormand , to have the bride come to the house to do the courting like this . 
Marius and M. Fauchelevent saw each other , but did not address each other . 
It seemed as though this had been agreed upon . 
Every girl needs a chaperon . 
Cosette could not have come without M. Fauchelevent . 
In Marius' eyes , M. Fauchelevent was the condition attached to Cosette . 
M. Fauchelevent talked well , and even with a certain loftiness of language still he lacked something indescribable . 
M. Fauchelevent possessed something less and also something more , than a man of the world . 
Marius , inwardly , and in the depths of his thought , surrounded with all sorts of mute questions this M. Fauchelevent , who was to him simply benevolent and cold . 
There were moments when doubts as to his own recollections occurred to him . 
There was a void in his memory , a black spot , an abyss excavated by four months of agony . 
Many things had been lost therein . 
He had come to the point of asking himself whether it were really a fact that he had seen M. Fauchelevent , so serious and so calm a man , in the barricade . 
This was not , however , the only stupor which the apparitions and the disappearances of the past had left in his mind . 
It must not be supposed that he was delivered from all those obsessions of the memory which force us , even when happy , even when satisfied , to glance sadly behind us . 
The head which does not turn backwards towards horizons that have vanished contains neither thought nor love . 
At times , Marius clasped his face between his hands , and the vague and tumultuous past traversed the twilight which reigned in his brain . 
Were all those dear , sorrowful , valiant , charming or tragic beings merely dreams ? had they actually existed ? The revolt had enveloped everything in its smoke . 
These great fevers create great dreams . 
He questioned himself he felt himself all these vanished realities made him dizzy . 
Where were they all then ? was it really true that all were dead ? A fall into the shadows had carried off all except himself . 
It all seemed to him to have disappeared as though behind the curtain of a theatre . 
There are curtains like this which drop in life . 
God passes on to the following act . 
M. Fauchelevent almost occupied a place among these vanished beings . 
Marius hesitated to believe that the Fauchelevent of the barricade was the same as this Fauchelevent in flesh and blood , sitting so gravely beside Cosette . 
The first was , probably , one of those nightmares occasioned and brought back by his hours of delirium . 
However , the natures of both men were rigid , no question from Marius to M. Fauchelevent was possible . 
Such an idea had not even occurred to him . 
We have already indicated this characteristic detail . 
Once only , did Marius make the attempt . 
I have no idea of the name of that street , replied M. Fauchelevent , in the most natural manner in the world . 
The response which bore upon the name of the street and not upon the street itself , appeared to Marius to be more conclusive than it really was . 
Decidedly , thought he , I have been dreaming . 
I have been subject to a hallucination . 
It was some one who resembled him . 
M. Fauchelevent was not there . 
CHAPTER VIII TWO MEN IMPOSSIBLE TO FIND Marius' enchantment , great as it was , could not efface from his mind other pre occupations . 
While the wedding was in preparation , and while awaiting the date fixed upon , he caused difficult and scrupulous retrospective researches to be made . 
He owed gratitude in various quarters he owed it on his father's account , he owed it on his own . 
There was Thenardier there was the unknown man who had brought him , Marius , back to M. Gillenormand . 
It was impossible for him to leave all these arrears of suffering behind him , and he wished , before entering joyously into the future , to obtain a quittance from the past . 
That Thenardier was a villain detracted nothing from the fact that he had saved Colonel Pontmercy . 
Thenardier was a ruffian in the eyes of all the world except Marius . 
None of the various agents whom Marius employed succeeded in discovering any trace of Thenardier . 
Obliteration appeared to be complete in that quarter . 
Madame Thenardier had died in prison pending the trial . 
Thenardier and his daughter Azelma , the only two remaining of that lamentable group , had plunged back into the gloom . 
The gulf of the social unknown had silently closed above those beings . 
That affair had remained rather obscure . 
The bench of Assizes had been obliged to content themselves with two subordinates . 
Hard labor for life had been the sentence pronounced against the escaped and contumacious accomplices . 
Thenardier , the head and leader , had been , through contumacy , likewise condemned to death . 
This sentence was the only information remaining about Thenardier , casting upon that buried name its sinister light like a candle beside a bier . 
Moreover , by thrusting Thenardier back into the very remotest depths , through a fear of being re captured , this sentence added to the density of the shadows which enveloped this man . 
As for the other person , as for the unknown man who had saved Marius , the researches were at first to some extent successful , then came to an abrupt conclusion . 
They succeeded in finding the carriage which had brought Marius to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire on the evening of the th of June . 
Marius , as we have said , recalled nothing . 
He had only regained consciousness at M. Gillenormand's . 
He was lost in conjectures . 
He could not doubt his own identity . 
And how ? Through the sewer . 
Unheard of devotion ! Some one ? Who ? This was the man for whom Marius was searching . 
Of this man , who was his savior , nothing not a trace not the faintest indication . 
Marius , although forced to preserve great reserve , in that direction , pushed his inquiries as far as the prefecture of police . 
There , no more than elsewhere , did the information obtained lead to any enlightenment . 
The prefecture knew less about the matter than did the hackney coachman . 
They had no knowledge of any arrest having been made on the th of June at the mouth of the Grand Sewer . 
No report of any agent had been received there upon this matter , which was regarded at the prefecture as a fable . 
The invention of this fable was attributed to the coachman . 
A coachman who wants a gratuity is capable of anything , even of imagination . 
The fact was assured , nevertheless , and Marius could not doubt it , unless he doubted his own identity , as we have just said . 
Everything about this singular enigma was inexplicable . 
Why had not that man appeared again ? Perhaps he was above compensation , but no one is above gratitude . 
Was he dead ? Who was the man ? What sort of a face had he ? No one could tell him this . 
The coachman answered The night was very dark . 
Basque and Nicolette , all in a flutter , had looked only at their young master all covered with blood . 
Marius had the blood stained clothing which he had worn when he had been brought back to his grandfather preserved , in the hope that it would prove of service in his researches . 
On examining the coat , it was found that one skirt had been torn in a singular way . 
The cold countenance of Monsieur Fauchelevent angered him . 
He exclaimed , with a vivacity which had something of wrath in it Yes , that man , whoever he may have been , was sublime . 
Do you know what he did , sir ? He intervened like an archangel . 
And that corpse I was . 
The proof of it is , that on emerging from the sewer , he was arrested . 
Do you know , sir , that that man did all this ? And he had no recompense to expect . 
What was I ? An insurgent . 
What was I ? One of the conquered . 
Oh ! if Cosette's six hundred thousand francs were mine . 
They are yours , interrupted Jean Valjean . 
Well , resumed Marius , I would give them all to find that man once more . 
THE SLEEPLESS NIGHT CHAPTER I THE TH OF FEBRUARY , The night of the th to the th of February , , was a blessed night . 
Above its shadows heaven stood open . 
It was the wedding night of Marius and Cosette . 
The day had been adorable . 
The manner of marriage in was not the same as it is to day . 
Old shoes and slippers do not , as yet , form a part of our nuptial celebrations but patience , as good taste continues to spread , we shall come to that . 
In , a hundred years ago , marriage was not conducted at a full trot . 
And people were so immodest as to marry in their own homes . 
The marriage took place , therefore , in accordance with this now superannuated fashion , at M. Gillenormand's house . 
Natural and commonplace as this matter of marrying is , the banns to publish , the papers to be drawn up , the mayoralty , and the church produce some complication . 
They could not get ready before the th of February . 
Now , we note this detail , for the pure satisfaction of being exact , it chanced that the th fell on Shrove Tuesday . 
Hesitations , scruples , particularly on the part of Aunt Gillenormand . 
Shrove Tuesday ! exclaimed the grandfather , so much the better . 
There is a proverb Mariage un Mardi gras N'aura point enfants ingrats . 
A Shrove Tuesday marriage will have no ungrateful children . 
Here goes for the th ! Do you want to delay , Marius ? No , certainly not ! replied the lover . 
Let us marry , then , cried the grandfather . 
Accordingly , the marriage took place on the th , notwithstanding the public merrymaking . 
On the preceding evening , Jean Valjean handed to Marius , in the presence of M. Gillenormand , the five hundred and eighty four thousand francs . 
As the marriage was taking place under the regime of community of property , the papers had been simple . 
Henceforth , Toussaint was of no use to Jean Valjean Cosette inherited her and promoted her to the rank of lady's maid . 
A few days before that fixed on for the marriage , an accident happened to Jean Valjean he crushed the thumb of his right hand . 
Nevertheless , this had forced him to swathe his hand in a linen bandage , and to carry his arm in a sling , and had prevented his signing . 
M. Gillenormand , in his capacity of Cosette's supervising guardian , had supplied his place . 
We will not conduct the reader either to the mayor's office or to the church . 
We will confine ourselves to noting an incident which , though unnoticed by the wedding party , marked the transit from the Rue des Filles du Calvaire to the church of Saint Paul . 
At that epoch , the northern extremity of the Rue Saint Louis was in process of repaving . 
It was barred off , beginning with the Rue du Pare Royal . 
It was impossible for the wedding carriages to go directly to Saint Paul . 
They were obliged to alter their course , and the simplest way was to turn through the boulevard . 
One of the invited guests observed that it was Shrove Tuesday , and that there would be a jam of vehicles . 
Why ? asked M. Gillenormand Because of the maskers . 
Capital , said the grandfather , let us go that way . 
These young folks are on the way to be married they are about to enter the serious part of life . 
This will prepare them for seeing a bit of the masquerade . 
They went by way of the boulevard . 
The first wedding coach held Cosette and Aunt Gillenormand , M. Gillenormand and Jean Valjean . 
Marius , still separated from his betrothed according to usage , did not come until the second . 
Maskers abounded on the boulevard . 
In spite of the fact that it was raining at intervals , Merry Andrew , Pantaloon and Clown persisted . 
In the good humor of that winter of , Paris had disguised itself as Venice . 
Such Shrove Tuesdays are no longer to be seen now a days . 
Everything which exists being a scattered Carnival , there is no longer any Carnival . 
The sidewalks were overflowing with pedestrians and the windows with curious spectators . 
The terraces which crown the peristyles of the theatres were bordered with spectators . 
Any one in these vehicles is at once a spectator and a spectacle . 
The carriages of the peers of France and of the Ambassadors , emblazoned with coats of arms , held the middle of the way , going and coming freely . 
Certain joyous and magnificent trains , notably that of the Boeuf Gras , had the same privilege . 
In this gayety of Paris , England cracked her whip Lord Seymour's post chaise , harassed by a nickname from the populace , passed with great noise . 
Then they set out again on the march . 
The wedding carriages were in the file proceeding towards the Bastille , and skirting the right side of the Boulevard . 
At the top of the Pont aux Choux , there was a stoppage . 
Nearly at the same moment , the other file , which was proceeding towards the Madeleine , halted also . 
At that point of the file there was a carriage load of maskers . 
These carriages , or to speak more correctly , these wagon loads of maskers are very familiar to Parisians . 
If they were missing on a Shrove Tuesday , or at the Mid Lent , it would be taken in bad part , and people would say There's something behind that . 
Probably the ministry is about to undergo a change . 
Greece stood in need of the chariot of Thespis , France stands in need of the hackney coach of Vade . 
Everything can be parodied , even parody . 
The tradition of carriage loads of maskers runs back to the most ancient days of the monarchy . 
The accounts of Louis XI . 
allot to the bailiff of the palace twenty sous , Tournois , for three coaches of mascarades in the cross roads . 
Twenty of them ride in a carriage intended for six . 
They cling to the seats , to the rumble , on the cheeks of the hood , on the shafts . 
They even bestride the carriage lamps . 
They stand , sit , lie , with their knees drawn up in a knot , and their legs hanging . 
The women sit on the men's laps . 
Far away , above the throng of heads , their wild pyramid is visible . 
These carriage loads form mountains of mirth in the midst of the rout . 
Colle , Panard and Piron flow from it , enriched with slang . 
This carriage which has become colossal through its freight , has an air of conquest . 
Uproar reigns in front , tumult behind . 
A laughter that is too cynical to be frank . 
In truth , this laughter is suspicious . 
This laughter has a mission . 
It is charged with proving the Carnival to the Parisians . 
These fishwife vehicles , in which one feels one knows not what shadows , set the philosopher to thinking . 
There one lays one's finger on a mysterious affinity between public men and public women . 
But what can be done about it ? These be ribboned and be flowered tumbrils of mire are insulted and pardoned by the laughter of the public . 
The laughter of all is the accomplice of universal degradation . 
Certain unhealthy festivals disaggregate the people and convert them into the populace . 
And populaces , like tyrants , require buffoons . 
The King has Roquelaure , the populace has the Merry Andrew . 
Paris is a great , mad city on every occasion that it is a great sublime city . 
There the Carnival forms part of politics . 
Paris , let us confess it willingly allows infamy to furnish it with comedy . 
She only demands of her masters when she has masters one thing Paint me the mud . 
Rome was of the same mind . 
Nero was a titanic lighterman . 
The carriage load of masks caught sight of the wedding carriage containing the bridal party opposite them on the other side of the boulevard . 
Hullo ! said a masker , here's a wedding . 
A sham wedding , retorted another . 
We are the genuine article . 
And , being too far off to accost the wedding party , and fearing also , the rebuke of the police , the two maskers turned their eyes elsewhere . 
A frightful exchange of metaphors took place between the maskers and the crowd . 
Their aside was covered by the tumult and was lost in it . 
Here is their dialogue Say , now . 
What , daddy ? Do you see that old cove ? What old cove ? Yonder , in the first wedding cart , on our side . 
The one with his arm hung up in a black cravat ? Yes . 
Well ? I'm sure that I know him . 
Paris in Pantin to day . 
Can you see the bride if you stoop down ? No. And the bridegroom ? There's no bridegroom in that trap . 
Bah ! Unless it's the old fellow . 
Try to get a sight of the bride by stooping very low . 
Never mind , that old cove who has something the matter with his paw I know , and that I'm positive . 
And what good does it do to know him ? No one can tell . 
Sometimes it does ! I don't care a hang for old fellows , that I don't ! I know him . 
Know him , if you want to . 
How the devil does he come to be one of the wedding party ? We are in it , too . 
Where does that wedding come from ? How should I know ? Listen . 
Well , what ? There's one thing you ought to do . 
What's that ? Get off of our trap and spin that wedding . 
What for ? To find out where it goes , and what it is . 
Hurry up and jump down , trot , my girl , your legs are young . 
I can't quit the vehicle . 
Why not ? I'm hired . 
Ah , the devil ! I owe my fishwife day to the prefecture . 
If I leave the cart , the first inspector who gets his eye on me will arrest me . 
You know that well enough . 
I'm bought by the government for to day . 
All the same , that old fellow bothers me . 
Do the old fellows bother you ? But you're not a young girl . 
He's in the first carriage . 
Well ? In the bride's trap . 
What then ? So he is the father . 
What concern is that of mine ? I tell you that he's the father . 
As if he were the only father . 
What ? I can't go out otherwise than masked . 
Here I'm concealed , no one knows that I'm here . 
But to morrow , there will be no more maskers . 
I run the risk of being nabbed . 
I must sneak back into my hole . 
More than I am , at any rate . 
Well , what of that ? You must try to find out where that wedding party went to . 
Where it went ? Yes . 
Where is it going then ? To the Cadran Bleu . 
In the first place , it's not in that direction . 
Well ! to la Rapee . 
Wedding parties are at liberty . 
That's not the point at all . 
I tell you that you must try to learn for me what that wedding is , who that old cove belongs to , and where that wedding pair lives . 
I like that ! that would be queer . 
It's so easy to find out a wedding party that passed through the street on a Shrove Tuesday , a week afterwards . 
A pin in a hay mow ! It ain't possible ! That don't matter . 
You understand me , Azelma . 
The two files resumed their movement on both sides of the boulevard , in opposite directions , and the carriage of the maskers lost sight of the trap of the bride . 
CHAPTER II JEAN VALJEAN STILL WEARS HIS ARM IN A SLING To realize one's dream . 
To whom is this accorded ? There must be elections for this in heaven we are all candidates , unknown to ourselves the angels vote . 
Cosette and Marius had been elected . 
Cosette , both at the mayor's office and at church , was dazzling and touching . 
Toussaint , assisted by Nicolette , had dressed her . 
It was an exquisite candor expanding and becoming transfigured in the light . 
One would have pronounced her a virgin on the point of turning into a goddess . 
Marius' handsome hair was lustrous and perfumed here and there , beneath the thick curls , pale lines the scars of the barricade were visible . 
The grandfather , haughty , with head held high , amalgamating more than ever in his toilet and his manners all the elegances of the epoch of Barras , escorted Cosette . 
He took the place of Jean Valjean , who , on account of his arm being still in a sling , could not give his hand to the bride . 
Jean Valjean , dressed in black , followed them with a smile . 
Monsieur Fauchelevent , said the grandfather to him , this is a fine day . 
I vote for the end of afflictions and sorrows . 
Henceforth , there must be no sadness anywhere . 
Pardieu , I decree joy ! Evil has no right to exist . 
That there should be any unhappy men is , in sooth , a disgrace to the azure of the sky . 
Evil does not come from man , who is good at bottom . 
All human miseries have for their capital and central government hell , otherwise , known as the Devil's Tuileries . 
She looked at Marius , she looked at the crowd , she looked at the sky it seemed as though she feared that she should wake up from her dream . 
Her amazed and uneasy air added something indescribably enchanting to her beauty . 
They entered the same carriage to return home , Marius beside Cosette M. Gillenormand and Jean Valjean sat opposite them Aunt Gillenormand had withdrawn one degree , and was in the second vehicle . 
My children , said the grandfather , here you are , Monsieur le Baron and Madame la Baronne , with an income of thirty thousand livres . 
And Cosette , nestling close to Marius , caressed his ear with an angelic whisper So it is true . 
These two creatures were resplendent . 
They had reached that irrevocable and irrecoverable moment , at the dazzling intersection of all youth and all joy . 
They realized the verses of Jean Prouvaire they were forty years old taken together . 
It was marriage sublimated these two children were two lilies . 
They did not see each other , they did not contemplate each other . 
Cosette perceived Marius in the midst of a glory Marius perceived Cosette on an altar . 
All the torments through which they had passed came back to them in intoxication . 
How good it is to have suffered ! Their unhappiness formed a halo round their happiness . 
The long agony of their love was terminating in an ascension . 
It was the same enchantment in two souls , tinged with voluptuousness in Marius , and with modesty in Cosette . 
They said to each other in low tones We will go back to take a look at our little garden in the Rue Plumet . 
The folds of Cosette's gown lay across Marius . 
Such a day is an ineffable mixture of dream and of reality . 
One possesses and one supposes . 
One still has time before one to divine . 
The emotion on that day , of being at mid day and of dreaming of midnight is indescribable . 
The delights of these two hearts overflowed upon the crowd , and inspired the passers by with cheerfulness . 
People halted in the Rue Saint Antoine , in front of Saint Paul , to gaze through the windows of the carriage at the orange flowers quivering on Cosette's head . 
Then they returned home to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire . 
Marius , triumphant and radiant , mounted side by side with Cosette the staircase up which he had been borne in a dying condition . 
The poor , who had trooped to the door , and who shared their purses , blessed them . 
The house was no less fragrant than the church after the incense , roses . 
All at once , the clock struck . 
Quite a number of old family friends of the Gillenormand family had been invited they pressed about Cosette . 
Each one vied with the rest in saluting her as Madame la Baronne . 
The officer , Theodule Gillenormand , now a captain , had come from Chartres , where he was stationed in garrison , to be present at the wedding of his cousin Pontmercy . 
Cosette did not recognize him . 
He , on his side , habituated as he was to have women consider him handsome , retained no more recollection of Cosette than of any other woman . 
How right I was not to believe in that story about the lancer ! said Father Gillenormand , to himself . 
Cosette had never been more tender with Jean Valjean . 
She was in unison with Father Gillenormand while he erected joy into aphorisms and maxims , she exhaled goodness like a perfume . 
Happiness desires that all the world should be happy . 
She regained , for the purpose of addressing Jean Valjean , inflections of voice belonging to the time when she was a little girl . 
She caressed him with her smile . 
A banquet had been spread in the dining room . 
Illumination as brilliant as the daylight is the necessary seasoning of a great joy . 
Mist and obscurity are not accepted by the happy . 
They do not consent to be black . 
The night , yes the shadows , no . 
If there is no sun , one must be made . 
The dining room was full of gay things . 
The empty spaces between the candelabra were filled in with bouquets , so that where there was not a light , there was a flower . 
In the antechamber , three violins and a flute softly played quartettes by Haydn . 
Jean Valjean began to laugh . 
A few moments later , Basque announced that dinner was served . 
The guests , preceded by M. Gillenormand with Cosette on his arm , entered the dining room , and arranged themselves in the proper order around the table . 
Two large arm chairs figured on the right and left of the bride , the first for M. Gillenormand , the other for Jean Valjean . 
M. Gillenormand took his seat . 
The other arm chair remained empty . 
They looked about for M. Fauchelevent . 
He was no longer there . 
Do you know where M. Fauchelevent is ? Sir , replied Basque , I do , precisely . 
That he begged to be excused , that he would come to morrow . 
He has just taken his departure . 
That empty arm chair chilled the effusion of the wedding feast for a moment . 
But , if M. Fauchelevent was absent , M. Gillenormand was present , and the grandfather beamed for two . 
He affirmed that M. Fauchelevent had done well to retire early , if he were suffering , but that it was only a slight ailment . 
And then , an idea occurred to M. Gillenormand . 
Pardieu , this armchair is empty . 
Your aunt will permit it , although she has a right to you . 
This armchair is for you . 
That is legal and delightful . 
Applause from the whole table . 
From the moment when Marius took his place , and was the substitute , Cosette would not have regretted God himself . 
She set her sweet little foot , shod in white satin , on Marius' foot . 
The arm chair being occupied , M. Fauchelevent was obliterated and nothing was lacking . 
And , five minutes afterward , the whole table from one end to the other , was laughing with all the animation of forgetfulness . 
You shall not escape two sermons , he exclaimed . 
This morning you had one from the cure , this evening you shall have one from your grandfather . 
Listen to me I will give you a bit of advice Adore each other . 
I do not make a pack of gyrations , I go straight to the mark , be happy . 
In all creation , only the turtle doves are wise . 
Philosophers say Moderate your joys . 
I say Give rein to your joys . 
Be as much smitten with each other as fiends . 
Be in a rage about it . 
The philosophers talk stuff and nonsense . 
I should like to stuff their philosophy down their gullets again . 
Ah , indeed ! Down with the philosophers ! Wisdom consists in jubilation . 
Make merry , let us make merry . 
Let us be happy without quibbling and quirking . 
Let us obey the sun blindly . 
What is the sun ? It is love . 
He who says love , says woman . 
Ah ! ah ! behold omnipotence women . 
Ask that demagogue of a Marius if he is not the slave of that little tyrant of a Cosette . 
And of his own free will , too , the coward ! Woman ! There is no Robespierre who keeps his place but woman reigns . 
I am no longer Royalist except towards that royalty . 
What is Adam ? The kingdom of Eve . 
Why is it so solid ? Because it is a gewgaw . 
Ah ! you are the nineteenth century ? Well , what then ? And we have been as foolish as you . 
Do not imagine that you have effected much change in the universe , because your trip gallant is called the cholera morbus , and because your pourree is called the cachuca . 
In fact , the women must always be loved . 
I defy you to escape from that . 
These friends are our angels . 
Well , grumble as he will , when Venus appears he is forced to smile . 
We are all made so . 
Wrath , tempest , claps of thunder , foam to the very ceiling . 
A woman enters on the scene , a planet rises flat on your face ! Marius was fighting six months ago to day he is married . 
Yes , Marius , yes , Cosette , you are in the right . 
Pardi , to love , to be loved , what a fine miracle when one is young ! Don't imagine that you have invented that . 
I , too , have had my dream , I , too , have meditated , I , too , have sighed I , too , have had a moonlight soul . 
Love is a child six thousand years old . 
Love has the right to a long white beard . 
Methusalem is a street arab beside Cupid . 
For sixty centuries men and women have got out of their scrape by loving . 
The devil , who is cunning , took to hating man man , who is still more cunning , took to loving woman . 
In this way he does more good than the devil does him harm . 
This craft was discovered in the days of the terrestrial paradise . 
The invention is old , my friends , but it is perfectly new . 
Be Daphnis and Chloe , while waiting to become Philemon and Baucis . 
Cosette , let your fine weather be the smile of your husband Marius , let your rain be your wife's tears . 
And let it never rain in your household . 
Believe what I say to you . 
And good sense cannot lie . 
Be a religion to each other . 
Each man has his own fashion of adoring God . 
Saperlotte ! the best way to adore God is to love one's wife . 
I love thee ! that's my catechism . 
He who loves is orthodox . 
The oath of Henri IV . 
places sanctity somewhere between feasting and drunkenness . 
Ventre saint gris ! I don't belong to the religion of that oath . 
Woman is forgotten in it . 
This astonishes me on the part of Henri IV . 
My friends , long live women ! I am old , they say it's astonishing how much I feel in the mood to be young . 
I should like to go and listen to the bagpipes in the woods . 
Children who contrive to be beautiful and contented , that intoxicates me . 
I would like greatly to get married , if any one would have me . 
There , let not that displease you which we used to think in our day , when we were young folks . 
Ah ! vertu bamboche ! what charming women there were in those days , and what pretty little faces and what lovely lasses ! I committed my ravages among them . 
My children , receive an old man's blessing . 
The evening was gay , lively and agreeable . 
The grandfather's sovereign good humor gave the key note to the whole feast , and each person regulated his conduct on that almost centenarian cordiality . 
They danced a little , they laughed a great deal it was an amiable wedding . 
Goodman Days of Yore might have been invited to it . 
However , he was present in the person of Father Gillenormand . 
There was a tumult , then silence . 
A little after midnight , the Gillenormand house became a temple . 
On the threshold of wedding nights stands a smiling angel with his finger on his lips . 
The soul enters into contemplation before that sanctuary where the celebration of love takes place . 
There should be flashes of light athwart such houses . 
The joy which they contain ought to make its escape through the stones of the walls in brilliancy , and vaguely illuminate the gloom . 
It is impossible that this sacred and fatal festival should not give off a celestial radiance to the infinite . 
This birth of two souls into one , ought to be an emotion for the gloom . 
The lover is the priest the ravished virgin is terrified . 
Something of that joy ascends to God . 
Where true marriage is , that is to say , where there is love , the ideal enters in . 
A nuptial bed makes a nook of dawn amid the shadows . 
If at that supreme hour , the wedded pair , dazzled with voluptuousness and believing themselves alone , were to listen , they would hear in their chamber a confused rustling of wings . 
Perfect happiness implies a mutual understanding with the angels . 
That dark little chamber has all heaven for its ceiling . 
These felicities are the true ones . 
There is no joy outside of these joys . 
Love is the only ecstasy . 
To love , or to have loved , this suffices . 
There is no other pearl to be found in the shadowy folds of life . 
To love is a fulfilment . 
This was the very room which , eight months before , he had entered black with mud , with blood and powder , bringing back the grandson to the grandfather . 
The old wainscoting was garlanded with foliage and flowers the musicians were seated on the sofa on which they had laid Marius down . 
Basque , in a black coat , knee breeches , white stockings and white gloves , was arranging roses round all of the dishes that were to be served . 
Jean Valjean pointed to his arm in its sling , charged Basque to explain his absence , and went away . 
The long windows of the dining room opened on the street . 
Jean Valjean stood for several minutes , erect and motionless in the darkness , beneath those radiant windows . 
The confused sounds of the banquet reached his ear . 
He quitted the Rue des Filles du Calvaire , and returned to the Rue de l'Homme Arme . 
This road , through which Cosette had passed , excluded for him all possibility of any other itinerary . 
Jean Valjean entered his lodgings . 
He lighted his candle and mounted the stairs . 
Even Toussaint was no longer there . 
Jean Valjean's step made more noise than usual in the chambers . 
All the cupboards stood open . 
He penetrated to Cosette's bedroom . 
There were no sheets on the bed . 
All the little feminine objects which Cosette was attached to had been carried away nothing remained except the heavy furniture and the four walls . 
Toussaint's bed was despoiled in like manner . 
One bed only was made up , and seemed to be waiting some one , and this was Jean Valjean's bed . 
Jean Valjean looked at the walls , closed some of the cupboard doors , and went and came from one room to another . 
Then he sought his own chamber once more , and set his candle on a table . 
He had disengaged his arm from the sling , and he used his right hand as though it did not hurt him . 
On his arrival in the Rue de l'Homme Arme , on the th of June , he had deposited it on a round table near the head of his bed . 
He went to this table with a sort of vivacity , took a key from his pocket , and opened the valise . 
These stockings , which still preserved the graceful form of a tiny leg , were no longer than Jean Valjean's hand . 
All this was black of hue . 
It was he who had brought those garments to Montfermeil for her . 
As he removed them from the valise , he laid them on the bed . 
He , Jean Valjean , had made her abandon those rags to clothe herself in these mourning habiliments . 
He arranged the tiny garments on the bed , the fichu next to the petticoat , the stockings beside the shoes , and he looked at them , one after the other . 
CHAPTER IV THE IMMORTAL LIVER In allusion to the story of Prometheus . 
The old and formidable struggle , of which we have already witnessed so many phases , began once more . 
Jacob struggled with the angel but one night . 
A heart rending question presented itself . 
Jean Valjean had halted at that moment at the most perilous of these crossroads . 
He had come to the supreme crossing of good and evil . 
He had that gloomy intersection beneath his eyes . 
On this occasion once more , as had happened to him already in other sad vicissitudes , two roads opened out before him , the one tempting , the other alarming . 
Which was he to take ? He was counselled to the one which alarmed him by that mysterious index finger which we all perceive whenever we fix our eyes on the darkness . 
Once more , Jean Valjean had the choice between the terrible port and the smiling ambush . 
Is it then true ? the soul may recover but not fate . 
Cosette had Marius , Marius possessed Cosette . 
They had everything , even riches . 
And this was his doing . 
Good or evil stands behind this severe interrogation point . 
What are you going to do ? demands the sphinx . 
This habit of trial Jean Valjean possessed . 
He gazed intently at the sphinx . 
He examined the pitiless problem under all its aspects . 
Cosette , that charming existence , was the raft of this shipwreck . 
And if he let go his hold ? Then the abyss . 
Thus he took sad council with his thoughts . 
Or , to speak more correctly , he fought he kicked furiously internally , now against his will , now against his conviction . 
Happily for Jean Valjean that he had been able to weep . 
That relieved him , possibly . 
But the beginning was savage . 
A tempest , more furious than the one which had formerly driven him to Arras , broke loose within him . 
The past surged up before him facing the present he compared them and sobbed . 
The silence of tears once opened , the despairing man writhed . 
He felt that he had been stopped short . 
Make your choice , Brutus make your choice , Cato . 
It is fathomless , since it is God . 
Somewhere in the fog of the ancient hells , there is a tun like that . 
It is a torture which consecrates . 
He weighed , he reflected , he considered the alternatives , the mysterious balance of light and darkness . 
There he remained for twelve hours , the twelve long hours of a long winter's night , ice cold , without once raising his head , and without uttering a word . 
He was as motionless as a corpse , while his thoughts wallowed on the earth and soared , now like the hydra , now like the eagle . 
Who could see ? Since Jean Valjean was alone , and there was no one there . 
The One who is in the shadows . 
THE LAST DRAUGHT FROM THE CUP CHAPTER I THE SEVENTH CIRCLE AND THE EIGHTH HEAVEN The days that follow weddings are solitary . 
People respect the meditations of the happy pair . 
And also , their tardy slumbers , to some degree . 
The tumult of visits and congratulations only begins later on . 
There had been no ring , which was discreet on such a day . 
Basque opened the door , and beheld M. Fauchelevent . 
He introduced him into the drawing room , still encumbered and topsy turvy , and which bore the air of a field of battle after the joys of the preceding evening . 
Dame , sir , remarked Basque , we all woke up late . 
Is your master up ? asked Jean Valjean . 
How is Monsieur's arm ? replied Basque . 
Is your master up ? Which one ? the old one or the new one ? Monsieur Pontmercy . 
Monsieur le Baron , said Basque , drawing himself up . 
A man is a Baron most of all to his servants . 
He counts for something with them they are what a philosopher would call , bespattered with the title , and that flatters them . 
Marius , be it said in passing , a militant republican as he had proved , was now a Baron in spite of himself . 
A small revolution had taken place in the family in connection with this title . 
It was now M. Gillenormand who clung to it , and Marius who detached himself from it . 
But Colonel Pontmercy had written My son will bear my title . 
And then , Cosette , in whom the woman was beginning to dawn , was delighted to be a Baroness . 
Monsieur le Baron ? repeated Basque . 
I will go and see . 
I will tell him that M. Fauchelevent is here . 
No. Do not tell him that it is I. Tell him that some one wishes to speak to him in private , and mention no name . 
I wish to surprise him . 
Ah ! ejaculated Basque once more , emitting his second ah ! as an explanation of the first . 
And he left the room . 
The drawing room , as we have just said , was in great disorder . 
It seemed as though , by lending an air , one might still hear the vague noise of the wedding . 
On the polished floor lay all sorts of flowers which had fallen from garlands and head dresses . 
The wax candles , burned to stumps , added stalactites of wax to the crystal drops of the chandeliers . 
Not a single piece of furniture was in its place . 
In the corners , three or four arm chairs , drawn close together in a circle , had the appearance of continuing a conversation . 
The whole effect was cheerful . 
A certain grace still lingers round a dead feast . 
It has been a happy thing . 
On the chairs in disarray , among those fading flowers , beneath those extinct lights , people have thought of joy . 
The sun had succeeded to the chandelier , and made its way gayly into the drawing room . 
Jean Valjean stood motionless on the spot where Basque had left him . 
His eyes were hollow , and so sunken in his head by sleeplessness that they nearly disappeared in their orbits . 
His black coat bore the weary folds of a garment that has been up all night . 
The elbows were whitened with the down which the friction of cloth against linen leaves behind it . 
Jean Valjean stared at the window outlined on the polished floor at his feet by the sun . 
There came a sound at the door , and he raised his eyes . 
Marius entered , his head well up , his mouth smiling , an indescribable light on his countenance , his brow expanded , his eyes triumphant . 
He had not slept either . 
It is you , father ! he exclaimed , on catching sight of Jean Valjean that idiot of a Basque had such a mysterious air ! But you have come too early . 
It is only half past twelve . 
That word Father , said to M. Fauchelevent by Marius , signified supreme felicity . 
There had always existed , as the reader knows , a lofty wall , a coldness and a constraint between them ice which must be broken or melted . 
Marius had reached that point of intoxication when the wall was lowered , when the ice dissolved , and when M. Fauchelevent was to him , as to Cosette , a father . 
He continued his words poured forth , as is the peculiarity of divine paroxysms of joy . 
How glad I am to see you ! If you only knew how we missed you yesterday ! Good morning , father . 
Cosette loves you so dearly ! You must not forget that you have a chamber here , We want nothing more to do with the Rue de l'Homme Arme . 
We will have no more of it at all . 
Or you will have to deal with Cosette . 
She means to lead us all by the nose , I warn you . 
Near your bed Cosette has placed a huge , old , easy chair covered with Utrecht velvet and she has said to it Stretch out your arms to him . 
A nightingale comes to the clump of acacias opposite your windows , every spring . 
In two months more you will have it . 
You will have its nest on your left and ours on your right . 
By night it will sing , and by day Cosette will prattle . 
Your chamber faces due South . 
Cosette will arrange your books for you , your Voyages of Captain Cook and the other , Vancouver's and all your affairs . 
I believe that there is a little valise to which you are attached , I have fixed upon a corner of honor for that . 
You have conquered my grandfather , you suit him . 
Do you play whist ? you will overwhelm my grandfather with delight if you play whist . 
We are absolutely resolved to be happy . 
I am an ex convict . 
The limit of shrill sounds perceptible can be overleaped , as well in the case of the mind as in that of the ear . 
These words I am an ex convict , proceeding from the mouth of M. Fauchelevent and entering the ear of Marius overshot the possible . 
It seemed to him that something had just been said to him but he did not know what . 
He stood with his mouth wide open . 
Then he perceived that the man who was addressing him was frightful . 
Wholly absorbed in his own dazzled state , he had not , up to that moment , observed the other man's terrible pallor . 
Jean Valjean untied the black cravat which supported his right arm , unrolled the linen from around his hand , bared his thumb and showed it to Marius . 
There is nothing the matter with my hand , said he . 
Marius looked at the thumb . 
There has not been anything the matter with it , went on Jean Valjean . 
There was , in fact , no trace of any injury . 
Jean Valjean continued It was fitting that I should be absent from your marriage . 
I absented myself as much as was in my power . 
What is the meaning of this ? The meaning of it is , replied Jean Valjean , that I have been in the galleys . 
You are driving me mad ! exclaimed Marius in terror . 
Monsieur Pontmercy , said Jean Valjean , I was nineteen years in the galleys . 
Then , I was condemned for life for theft , for a second offence . 
At the present moment , I have broken my ban . 
In vain did Marius recoil before the reality , refuse the fact , resist the evidence , he was forced to give way . 
He began to understand , and , as always happens in such cases , he understood too much . 
An inward shudder of hideous enlightenment flashed through him an idea which made him quiver traversed his mind . 
He caught a glimpse of a wretched destiny for himself in the future . 
Say all , say all ! he cried . 
You are Cosette's father ! And he retreated a couple of paces with a movement of indescribable horror . 
Jean Valjean elevated his head with so much majesty of attitude that he seemed to grow even to the ceiling . 
It is necessary that you should believe me here , sir although our oath to others may not be received in law . 
Here he paused , then , with a sort of sovereign and sepulchral authority , he added , articulating slowly , and emphasizing the syllables . 
I the father of Cosette ! before God , no . 
Monsieur le Baron Pontmercy , I am a peasant of Faverolles . 
I earned my living by pruning trees . 
My name is not Fauchelevent , but Jean Valjean . 
I am not related to Cosette . 
Marius stammered Who will prove that to me ? I. Since I tell you so . 
Marius looked at the man . 
He was melancholy yet tranquil . 
No lie could proceed from such a calm . 
That which is icy is sincere . 
The truth could be felt in that chill of the tomb . 
I believe you , said Marius . 
Jean Valjean bent his head , as though taking note of this , and continued What am I to Cosette ? A passer by . 
Ten years ago , I did not know that she was in existence . 
I love her , it is true . 
One loves a child whom one has seen when very young , being old oneself . 
When one is old , one feels oneself a grandfather towards all little children . 
You may , it seems to me , suppose that I have something which resembles a heart . 
Without either father or mother . 
That is why I began to love her . 
Children are so weak that the first comer , even a man like me , can become their protector . 
I have fulfilled this duty towards Cosette . 
I do not think that so slight a thing can be called a good action but if it be a good action , well , say that I have done it . 
To day , Cosette passes out of my life our two roads part . 
Henceforth , I can do nothing for her . 
And Cosette gains by the change . 
As for the six hundred thousand francs , you do not mention them to me , but I forestall your thought , they are a deposit . 
How did that deposit come into my hands ? What does that matter ? I restore the deposit . 
Nothing more can be demanded of me . 
I complete the restitution by announcing my true name . 
I have a reason for desiring that you should know who I am . 
And Jean Valjean looked Marius full in the face . 
All that Marius experienced was tumultuous and incoherent . 
Certain gusts of destiny produce these billows in our souls . 
There are sudden revelations which one cannot bear , and which intoxicate like baleful wine . 
Marius was stupefied by the novel situation which presented itself to him , to the point of addressing that man almost like a person who was angry with him for this avowal . 
But why , he exclaimed , do you tell me all this ? Who forces you to do so ? You could have kept your secret to yourself . 
You are neither denounced , nor tracked nor pursued . 
You have a reason for wantonly making such a revelation . 
From what motive , in fact , has this convict just said I am a convict' ? Well , yes ! the motive is strange . 
It is out of honesty . 
Stay , the unfortunate point is that I have a thread in my heart , which keeps me fast . 
It is when one is old that that sort of thread is particularly solid . 
All life falls in ruin around one one resists . 
Had I been able to tear out that thread , to break it , to undo the knot or to cut it , to go far away , I should have been safe . 
I had only to go away there are diligences in the Rue Bouloy you are happy I am going . 
I have tried to break that thread , I have jerked at it , it would not break , I tore my heart with it . 
Then I said I cannot live anywhere else than here . 
We shall live as one family . 
One family ! At that word , Jean Valjean became wild . 
I do not belong to yours . 
I do not belong to any family of men . 
In houses where people are among themselves , I am superfluous . 
There are families , but there is nothing of the sort for me . 
I am an unlucky wretch I am left outside . 
Did I have a father and mother ? I almost doubt it . 
On the day when I gave that child in marriage , all came to an end . 
I could have lied , it is true , have deceived you all , and remained Monsieur Fauchelevent . 
So long as it was for her , I could lie but now it would be for myself , and I must not . 
It was sufficient for me to hold my peace , it is true , and all would go on . 
You ask me what has forced me to speak ? a very odd thing my conscience . 
To hold my peace was very easy , however . 
That is why I have come hither to tell you everything this morning . 
It is useless to tell you that which concerns only myself I keep that to myself . 
You know the essential points . 
So I have taken my mystery and have brought it to you . 
And I have disembowelled my secret before your eyes . 
It was not a resolution that was easy to take . 
I struggled all night long . 
Each one of us would have had his share of happiness . 
If I continued to be Monsieur Fauchelevent , that would arrange everything . 
Yes , with the exception of my soul . 
There was joy everywhere upon my surface , but the bottom of my soul remained black . 
It is not enough to be happy , one must be content . 
Thus , I , a dead man , should have thrust myself upon you who are living beings . 
I should have condemned her to myself forever . 
There is a silence which lies . 
In order to be happy . 
Have I the right to be happy ? I stand outside of life , Sir . 
Such chains of ideas and of anguishes cannot be interrupted . 
Jean Valjean lowered his voice once more , but it was no longer a dull voice it was a sinister voice . 
You ask why I speak ? I am neither denounced , nor pursued , nor tracked , you say . 
Yes ! I am denounced ! yes ! I am tracked ! By whom ? By myself . 
And , seizing a handful of his own coat by the nape of the neck and extending it towards Marius Do you see that fist ? he continued . 
One would say that it punished you for comprehending it but no , it rewards you for it places you in a hell , where you feel God beside you . 
One has no sooner lacerated his own entrails than he is at peace with himself . 
And , with a poignant accent , he added Monsieur Pontmercy , this is not common sense , I am an honest man . 
It is by degrading myself in your eyes that I elevate myself in my own . 
This has happened to me once before , but it was less painful then it was a mere nothing . 
Yes , an honest man . 
I should not be so if , through my fault , you had continued to esteem me now that you despise me , I am so . 
Then I straighten up again . 
I am a galley slave who obeys his conscience . 
I know well that that is most improbable . 
But what would you have me do about it ? it is the fact . 
I have entered into engagements with myself I keep them . 
There are encounters which bind us , there are chances which involve us in duties . 
You see , Monsieur Pontmercy , various things have happened to me in the course of my life . 
It is hideous to approach those who are healthy , and to touch them in the dark with one's ulcer . 
In spite of the fact that Fauchelevent lent me his name , I have no right to use it he could give it to me , but I could not take it . 
A name is an I . 
You see , sir , that I have thought somewhat , I have read a little , although I am a peasant and you see that I express myself properly . 
I have procured myself an education . 
Well , yes , to abstract a name and to place oneself under it is dishonest . 
Letters of the alphabet can be filched , like a purse or a watch . 
That is why I have just told you all this . 
Wantonly , as you say . 
To live ! interrupted Marius . 
You do not need that name in order to live ? Ah ! I understand the matter , said Jean Valjean , raising and lowering his head several times in succession . 
Both held their peace , each plunged in a gulf of thoughts . 
Marius was sitting near a table and resting the corner of his mouth on one of his fingers , which was folded back . 
Jean Valjean was pacing to and fro . 
He paused before a mirror , and remained motionless . 
He took up his march again , and walked to the other end of the drawing room . 
At the moment when he turned round , he perceived that Marius was watching his walk . 
Then he said , with an inexpressible intonation I drag my leg a little . 
Jean Valjean resumed What do you say to that ? Marius' silence answered for him . 
Jean Valjean continued You see that I am right in not holding my peace . 
Marius slowly crossed the room , and , when he was quite close to Jean Valjean , he offered the latter his hand . 
My grandfather has friends , said Marius I will procure your pardon . 
It is useless , replied Jean Valjean . 
I am believed to be dead , and that suffices . 
The dead are not subjected to surveillance . 
They are supposed to rot in peace . 
Death is the same thing as pardon . 
At that moment , a door at the other end of the drawing room opened gently half way , and in the opening Cosette's head appeared . 
They saw only her sweet face , her hair was in charming disorder , her eyelids were still swollen with sleep . 
How stupid that is , instead of being with me ! Jean Valjean shuddered . 
One would have said that they were two criminals . 
Cosette , who was radiant , continued to gaze at both of them . 
There was something in her eyes like gleams of paradise . 
I have caught you in the very act , said Cosette . 
Just now , I heard my father Fauchelevent through the door saying Conscience . 
That is politics , indeed it is . 
I will not have it . 
People should not talk politics the very next day . 
Cosette , said Marius , we are talking business . 
We are discussing the best investment of your six hundred thousand francs . 
That is not it at all interrupted Cosette . 
Does any body want me here ? And , passing resolutely through the door , she entered the drawing room . 
She was dressed in a voluminous white dressing gown , with a thousand folds and large sleeves which , starting from the neck , fell to her feet . 
In the golden heavens of some ancient gothic pictures , there are these charming sacks fit to clothe the angels . 
She contemplated herself from head to foot in a long mirror , then exclaimed , in an outburst of ineffable ecstasy There was once a King and a Queen . 
Oh ! how happy I am ! That said , she made a curtsey to Marius and to Jean Valjean . 
Marius took her by the arm and said lovingly to her We are talking business . 
By the way , said Cosette , I have opened my window , a flock of pierrots has arrived in the garden , Birds , not maskers . 
To day is Ash Wednesday but not for the birds . 
I tell you that we are talking business , go , my little Cosette , leave us alone for a moment . 
You have a charming cravat on this morning , Marius . 
You are very dandified , monseigneur . 
No , it will not bore me . 
I assure you that it will bore you . 
No. Since it is you . 
I shall not understand you , but I shall listen to you . 
When one hears the voices of those whom one loves , one does not need to understand the words that they utter . 
That we should be here together that is all that I desire . 
I shall remain with you , bah ! You are my beloved Cosette ! Impossible . 
Very good , said Cosette . 
I was going to tell you some news . 
Well , you shall know nothing . 
Ah ! it is impossible ? you shall see , gentlemen , that I , in my turn , can say It is impossible . 
Then who will be caught ? I beseech you , my little Marius , let me stay here with you two . 
I swear to you , that it is indispensable that we should be alone . 
Well , am I anybody ? Jean Valjean had not uttered a single word . 
Cosette turned to him In the first place , father , I want you to come and embrace me . 
What do you mean by not saying anything instead of taking my part ? who gave me such a father as that ? You must perceive that my family life is very unhappy . 
Come , embrace me instantly . 
As for you , I shall make a face at you . 
Then she presented her brow to Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean advanced a step toward her . 
Father , you are pale . 
Does your arm hurt you ? It is well , said Jean Valjean . 
Did you sleep badly ? No. Are you sad ? No. Embrace me if you are well , if you sleep well , if you are content , I will not scold you . 
And again she offered him her brow . 
Jean Valjean dropped a kiss upon that brow whereon rested a celestial gleam . 
It was the smile of a spectre . 
Now , defend me against my husband . 
Say that I must stay . 
You can certainly talk before me . 
So you think me very silly . 
What you say is astonishing ! business , placing money in a bank a great matter truly . 
Men make mysteries out of nothing . 
I am very pretty this morning . 
Look at me , Marius . 
And with an adorable shrug of the shoulders , and an indescribably exquisite pout , she glanced at Marius . 
I love you ! said Marius . 
I adore you ! said Cosette . 
And they fell irresistibly into each other's arms . 
Now , said Cosette , adjusting a fold of her dressing gown , with a triumphant little grimace , I shall stay . 
No , not that , said Marius , in a supplicating tone . 
We have to finish something . 
Still no ? Marius assumed a grave tone I assure you , Cosette , that it is impossible . 
Ah ! you put on your man's voice , sir . 
That is well , I go . 
You , father , have not upheld me . 
Monsieur my father , monsieur my husband , you are tyrants . 
I shall go and tell grandpapa . 
If you think that I am going to return and talk platitudes to you , you are mistaken . 
I shall wait for you now . 
You shall see , that it is you who are going to be bored without me . 
I am going , it is well . 
And she left the room . 
Two seconds later , the door opened once more , her fresh and rosy head was again thrust between the two leaves , and she cried to them I am very angry indeed . 
The door closed again , and the shadows descended once more . 
It was as though a ray of sunlight should have suddenly traversed the night , without itself being conscious of it . 
Marius made sure that the door was securely closed . 
Poor Cosette ! he murmured , when she finds out . 
At that word Jean Valjean trembled in every limb . 
He fixed on Marius a bewildered eye . 
Cosette ! oh yes , it is true , you are going to tell Cosette about this . 
Stay , I had not thought of that . 
One has the strength for one thing , but not for another . 
Sir , I conjure you , I entreat now , sir , give me your most sacred word of honor , that you will not tell her . 
But she , she does not know what it is , it would terrify her . 
What , a convict ! we should be obliged to explain matters to her , to say to her He is a man who has been in the galleys . 
She saw the chain gang pass by one day . 
Oh ! My God ! . 
He dropped into an arm chair and hid his face in his hands . 
His grief was not audible , but from the quivering of his shoulders it was evident that he was weeping . 
Silent tears , terrible tears . 
There is something of suffocation in the sob . 
That is an act of probity . 
It is just that some recompense should be bestowed on you . 
Fix the sum yourself , it shall be counted out to you . 
Do not fear to set it very high . 
I thank you , sir , replied Jean Valjean , gently . 
He remained in thought for a moment , mechanically passing the tip of his fore finger across his thumb nail , then he lifted up his voice All is nearly over . 
But one last thing remains for me . 
I shall never see her more , murmured Jean Valjean . 
And he directed his steps towards the door . 
He laid his hand on the knob , the latch yielded , the door opened . 
Jean Valjean pushed it open far enough to pass through , stood motionless for a second , then closed the door again and turned to Marius . 
He was no longer pale , he was livid . 
There were no longer any tears in his eyes , but only a sort of tragic flame . 
His voice had regained a strange composure . 
Stay , sir , he said . 
If you will allow it , I will come to see her . 
I assure you that I desire it greatly . 
You follow my reasoning , do you not ? it is a matter easily understood . 
You see , I have had her with me for more than nine years . 
We lived first in that hut on the boulevard , then in the convent , then near the Luxembourg . 
That was where you saw her for the first time . 
You remember her blue plush hat . 
Then we went to the Quartier des Invalides , where there was a railing on a garden , the Rue Plumet . 
I lived in a little back court yard , whence I could hear her piano . 
We never left each other . 
That lasted for nine years and some months . 
I was like her own father , and she was my child . 
If you do not disapprove of it , I will come to see Cosette from time to time . 
I will not come often . 
I will not remain long . 
You shall give orders that I am to be received in the little waiting room . 
Truly , sir , I should like to see a little more of Cosette . 
As rarely as you please . 
Put yourself in my place , I have nothing left but that . 
And then , we must be cautious . 
If I no longer come at all , it would produce a bad effect , it would be considered singular . 
What I can do , by the way , is to come in the afternoon , when night is beginning to fall . 
You shall come every evening , said Marius , and Cosette will be waiting for you . 
You are kind , sir , said Jean Valjean . 
Marius saluted Jean Valjean , happiness escorted despair to the door , and these two men parted . 
CHAPTER II THE OBSCURITIES WHICH A REVELATION CAN CONTAIN Marius was quite upset . 
The sort of estrangement which he had always felt towards the man beside whom he had seen Cosette , was now explained to him . 
There was something enigmatic about that person , of which his instinct had warned him . 
This enigma was the most hideous of disgraces , the galleys . 
This M. Fauchelevent was the convict Jean Valjean . 
To abruptly find such a secret in the midst of one's happiness resembles the discovery of a scorpion in a nest of turtledoves . 
As is always the case in changes of view of this nature , Marius asked himself whether he had nothing with which to reproach himself . 
Had he been wanting in divination ? Had he been wanting in prudence ? Had he involuntarily dulled his wits ? A little , perhaps . 
We have more than once indicated this characteristic element of Marius' individuality . 
Nevertheless , he could account for it . 
Moreover , these few weeks had been a flash of lightning there had been no time for anything except love . 
There is a deity for those drunken men who are called lovers . 
Marius blind , had followed the path which he would have chosen had he been in full possession of his sight . 
Love had bandaged his eyes , in order to lead him whither ? To paradise . 
But this paradise was henceforth complicated with an infernal accompaniment . 
Marius' ancient estrangement towards this man , towards this Fauchelevent who had turned into Jean Valjean , was at present mingled with horror . 
In this horror , let us state , there was some pity , and even a certain surprise . 
This thief , this thief guilty of a second offence , had restored that deposit . 
And what a deposit ! Six hundred thousand francs . 
He alone was in the secret of that deposit . 
He might have kept it all , he had restored it all . 
Moreover , he had himself revealed his situation . 
Nothing forced him to this . 
If any one learned who he was , it was through himself . 
In this avowal there was something more than acceptance of humiliation , there was acceptance of peril . 
For a condemned man , a mask is not a mask , it is a shelter . 
A false name is security , and he had rejected that false name . 
He , the galley slave , might have hidden himself forever in an honest family he had withstood this temptation . 
And with what motive ? Through a conscientious scruple . 
He himself explained this with the irresistible accents of truth . 
In short , whatever this Jean Valjean might be , he was , undoubtedly , a conscience which was awakening . 
There existed some mysterious re habilitation which had begun and , to all appearances , scruples had for a long time already controlled this man . 
Such fits of justice and goodness are not characteristic of vulgar natures . 
An awakening of conscience is grandeur of soul . 
This sincerity , visible , palpable , irrefragable , evident from the very grief that it caused him , rendered inquiries useless , and conferred authority on all that that man had said . 
Here , for Marius , there was a strange reversal of situations . 
What breathed from M. Fauchelevent ? distrust . 
What did Jean Valjean inspire ? confidence . 
In the mysterious balance of this Jean Valjean which the pensive Marius struck , he admitted the active principle , he admitted the passive principle , and he tried to reach a balance . 
But all this went on as in a storm . 
The deposit honestly restored , the probity of the confession these were good . 
This produced a lightening of the cloud , then the cloud became black once more . 
Troubled as were Marius' memories , a shadow of them returned to him . 
Because that man was a fugitive from justice , who had broken his ban . 
This man had been in the barricade . 
He had not fought there . 
What had he come there for ? In the presence of this question a spectre sprang up and replied Javert . 
Obviously , there was hatred between that police spy and the galley slave . 
The one was in the other's way . 
Jean Valjean had gone to the barricade for the purpose of revenging himself . 
He probably knew that Javert was a prisoner there . 
Jean Valjean had killed Javert . 
At least , that seemed to be evident . 
This was the final question , to be sure but to this there was no reply . 
This question Marius felt like pincers . 
Cosette's childhood and girlhood , her advent in the daylight , her virginal growth towards life and light , had been sheltered by that hideous devotion . 
Here questions exfoliated , so to speak , into innumerable enigmas , abysses yawned at the bottoms of abysses , and Marius could no longer bend over Jean Valjean without becoming dizzy . 
In the presence of this double secret , Marius recoiled . 
The one , in some sort , reassured him as to the other . 
God was as visible in this affair as was Jean Valjean . 
He makes use of the tool which he wills . 
He is not responsible to men . 
Do we know how God sets about the work ? Jean Valjean had labored over Cosette . 
He had , to some extent , made that soul . 
Well , what then ? The workman was horrible but the work was admirable . 
God produces his miracles as seems good to him . 
He had constructed that charming Cosette , and he had employed Jean Valjean . 
It had pleased him to choose this strange collaborator for himself . 
He had not dared to press Jean Valjean on all the points which we have just indicated , but he did not confess to himself that he did not dare to do it . 
He adored Cosette , he possessed Cosette , Cosette was splendidly pure . 
That was sufficient for him . 
What enlightenment did he need ? Cosette was a light . 
Does light require enlightenment ? He had everything what more could he desire ? All , is not that enough ? Jean Valjean's personal affairs did not concern him . 
And bending over the fatal shadow of that man , he clung fast , convulsively , to the solemn declaration of that unhappy wretch I am nothing to Cosette . 
Ten years ago I did not know that she was in existence . 
Jean Valjean was a passer by . 
He had said so himself . 
Well , he had passed . 
Whatever he was , his part was finished . 
Henceforth , there remained Marius to fulfil the part of Providence to Cosette . 
Cosette had sought the azure in a person like herself , in her lover , her husband , her celestial male . 
Cosette , as she took her flight , winged and transfigured , left behind her on the earth her hideous and empty chrysalis , Jean Valjean . 
In whatever circle of ideas Marius revolved , he always returned to a certain horror for Jean Valjean . 
A sacred horror , perhaps , for , as we have just pointed out , he felt a quid divinum in that man . 
After the very last of men comes the convict . 
The convict is no longer , so to speak , in the semblance of the living . 
The law has deprived him of the entire quantity of humanity of which it can deprive a man . 
He had not yet accomplished all progress , we admit . 
He had not yet come to distinguish between that which is written by man and that which is written by God , between law and right . 
He had not examined and weighed the right which man takes to dispose of the irrevocable and the irreparable . 
He was not shocked by the word vindicte . 
He found it quite simple that certain breaches of the written law should be followed by eternal suffering , and he accepted , as the process of civilization , social damnation . 
He still stood at this point , though safe to advance infallibly later on , since his nature was good , and , at bottom , wholly formed of latent progress . 
In this stage of his ideas , Jean Valjean appeared to him hideous and repulsive . 
He was a man reproved , he was the convict . 
It was not that they had not presented themselves to his mind , but that he had been afraid of them . 
It is not wise to question sinister situations to the last point , particularly when the indissoluble side of our life is fatally intermingled with them . 
Fatality has points of juncture where innocence itself is stamped with crime by the gloomy law of the reflections which give color . 
The purest figures may forever preserve the reflection of a horrible association . 
Rightly or wrongly , Marius had been afraid . 
He already knew too much . 
He sought to dull his senses rather than to gain further light . 
In dismay he bore off Cosette in his arms and shut his eyes to Jean Valjean . 
That man was the night , the living and horrible night . 
How should he dare to seek the bottom of it ? It is a terrible thing to interrogate the shadow . 
Who knows what its reply will be ? The dawn may be blackened forever by it . 
In this state of mind the thought that that man would , henceforth , come into any contact whatever with Cosette was a heartrending perplexity to Marius . 
He now almost reproached himself for not having put those formidable questions , before which he had recoiled , and from which an implacable and definitive decision might have sprung . 
He felt that he was too good , too gentle , too weak , if we must say the word . 
This weakness had led him to an imprudent concession . 
He had allowed himself to be touched . 
He had been in the wrong . 
He ought to have simply and purely rejected Jean Valjean . 
Jean Valjean played the part of fire , and that is what he should have done , and have freed his house from that man . 
He was vexed with himself , he was angry with that whirlwind of emotions which had deafened , blinded , and carried him away . 
He was displeased with himself . 
What was he to do now ? Jean Valjean's visits were profoundly repugnant to him . 
Still , his first duty was to Cosette . 
In short , he was carried away by the repugnance which dominated him . 
Marius turned over all this confusion of ideas in his mind , passing from one to the other , and moved by all of them . 
Hence arose a profound trouble . 
It was not easy for him to hide this trouble from Cosette , but love is a talent , and Marius succeeded in doing it . 
All that Marius had caught a glimpse of and had surmised was real . 
That sinister nettle had loved and protected that lily . 
FADING AWAY OF THE TWILIGHT CHAPTER I THE LOWER CHAMBER On the following day , at nightfall , Jean Valjean knocked at the carriage gate of the Gillenormand house . 
It was Basque who received him . 
Basque was in the courtyard at the appointed hour , as though he had received his orders . 
It sometimes happens that one says to a servant You will watch for Mr. So and So , when he arrives . 
Basque , who was perfectly respectful , opened the door of the waiting room and said I will go and inform Madame . 
This chamber was not one of those which are harassed by the feather duster , the pope's head brush , and the broom . 
The dust rested tranquilly there . 
Persecution of the spiders was not organized there . 
A fine web , which spread far and wide , and was very black and ornamented with dead flies , formed a wheel on one of the window panes . 
The room , which was small and low ceiled , was furnished with a heap of empty bottles piled up in one corner . 
The wall , which was daubed with an ochre yellow wash , was scaling off in large flakes . 
At one end there was a chimney piece painted in black with a narrow shelf . 
A fire was burning there which indicated that Jean Valjean's reply I will remain below , had been foreseen . 
Two arm chairs were placed at the two corners of the fireplace . 
Between the chairs an old bedside rug , which displayed more foundation thread than wool , had been spread by way of a carpet . 
The chamber was lighted by the fire on the hearth and the twilight falling through the window . 
For days he had neither eaten nor slept . 
He threw himself into one of the arm chairs . 
Basque returned , set a lighted candle on the chimney piece and retired . 
Jean Valjean , his head drooping and his chin resting on his breast , perceived neither Basque nor the candle . 
All at once , he drew himself up with a start . 
Cosette was standing beside him . 
He had not seen her enter , but he had felt that she was there . 
But what he was contemplating with that profound gaze was not her beauty but her soul . 
Well , exclaimed Cosette , father , I knew that you were peculiar , but I never should have expected this . 
What an idea ! Marius told me that you wish me to receive you here . 
Yes , it is my wish . 
I warn you that I am going to make a scene for you . 
Let us begin at the beginning . 
And she offered him her cheek . 
I take note of it . 
But never mind , I pardon you . 
Jesus Christ said Offer the other cheek . 
And she presented her other cheek . 
Jean Valjean did not move . 
It seemed as though his feet were nailed to the pavement . 
This is becoming serious , said Cosette . 
What have I done to you ? I declare that I am perplexed . 
You will dine with us . 
I will get M. Gillenormand to scold you . 
Grandfathers are made to reprimand fathers . 
Go upstairs with me to the drawing room . 
Here Cosette lost ground a little . 
She ceased to command and passed to questioning . 
But why ? and you choose the ugliest chamber in the house in which to see me . 
Jean Valjean caught himself up . 
You know , madame , that I am peculiar , I have my freaks . 
Cosette struck her tiny hands together . 
more novelties ! What is the meaning of this ? Jean Valjean directed upon her that heartrending smile to which he occasionally had recourse You wished to be Madame . 
Not for you , father . 
Do not call me father . 
What ? Call me Monsieur Jean . 
Jean , if you like . 
And you won't live with us ! And you won't have my chamber ! What have I done to you ? Has anything happened ? Nothing . 
Well then ? Everything is as usual . 
Why do you change your name ? You have changed yours , surely . 
He smiled again with the same smile as before and added Since you are Madame Pontmercy , I certainly can be Monsieur Jean . 
I don't understand anything about it . 
I shall ask permission of my husband for you to be Monsieur Jean . 
I hope that he will not consent to it . 
You cause me a great deal of pain . 
One does have freaks , but one does not cause one's little Cosette grief . 
You have no right to be wicked , you who are so good . 
You no longer need a father , you have a husband . 
There is nothing new in this . 
I always have loved my black corner . 
But it is cold here . 
It is abominable , that it is , to wish to be Monsieur Jean ! I will not have you say you' to me . 
Just now , as I was coming hither , replied Jean Valjean , I saw a piece of furniture in the Rue Saint Louis . 
It was at a cabinet maker's . 
If I were a pretty woman , I would treat myself to that bit of furniture . 
A very neat toilet table in the reigning style . 
What you call rosewood , I think . 
The mirror is quite large . 
Hou ! the villainous bear ! replied Cosette . 
And with supreme grace , setting her teeth and drawing back her lips , she blew at Jean Valjean . 
She was a Grace copying a cat . 
I am furious , she resumed . 
Ever since yesterday , you have made me rage , all of you . 
You do not defend me against Marius . 
Marius will not uphold me against you . 
I arrange a chamber prettily . 
If I could have put the good God there I would have done it . 
My chamber is left on my hands . 
My lodger sends me into bankruptcy . 
I order a nice little dinner of Nicolette . 
We will have nothing to do with your dinner , Madame . 
You ought not to have begun being singular again instantly . 
So you are going to be perfectly contented in your abominable Rue de l'Homme Arme . 
I was very desperate indeed there , that I was . 
What have you against me ? You cause me a great deal of grief . 
Fi ! And , becoming suddenly serious , she gazed intently at Jean Valjean and added Are you angry with me because I am happy ? Ingenuousness sometimes unconsciously penetrates deep . 
This question , which was simple for Cosette , was profound for Jean Valjean . 
Cosette had meant to scratch , and she lacerated . 
He remained for a moment without replying , then , with an inexpressible intonation , and speaking to himself , he murmured Her happiness was the object of my life . 
Now God may sign my dismissal . 
Cosette , thou art happy my day is over . 
Ah , you have said thou to me ! exclaimed Cosette . 
And she sprang to his neck . 
Jean Valjean , in bewilderment , strained her wildly to his breast . 
It almost seemed to him as though he were taking her back . 
Thanks , father ! said Cosette . 
This enthusiastic impulse was on the point of becoming poignant for Jean Valjean . 
He gently removed Cosette's arms , and took his hat . 
I leave you , Madame , they are waiting for you . 
And , from the threshold , he added I have said thou to you . 
Tell your husband that this shall not happen again . 
Jean Valjean quitted the room , leaving Cosette stupefied at this enigmatical farewell . 
CHAPTER II ANOTHER STEP BACKWARDS On the following day , at the same hour , Jean Valjean came . 
She allowed herself to be addressed as you . 
She allowed herself to be called Madame . 
Only , her joy had undergone a certain diminution . 
She would have been sad , if sadness had been possible to her . 
It is probable that she had had with Marius one of those conversations in which the beloved man says what he pleases , explains nothing , and satisfies the beloved woman . 
The curiosity of lovers does not extend very far beyond their own love . 
The lower room had made a little toilet . 
Basque had suppressed the bottles , and Nicolette the spiders . 
All the days which followed brought Jean Valjean at the same hour . 
He came every day , because he had not the strength to take Marius' words otherwise than literally . 
Marius arranged matters so as to be absent at the hours when Jean Valjean came . 
The house grew accustomed to the novel ways of M. Fauchelevent . 
Toussaint helped in this direction Monsieur has always been like that , she repeated . 
The grandfather issued this decree He's an original . 
Moreover , at the age of ninety six , no bond is any longer possible , all is merely juxtaposition a newcomer is in the way . 
There is no longer any room all habits are acquired . 
M. Fauchelevent , M. Tranchelevent , Father Gillenormand asked nothing better than to be relieved from that gentleman . 
He added Nothing is more common than those originals . 
They do all sorts of queer things . 
The Marquis de Canaples was still worse . 
He bought a palace that he might lodge in the garret . 
These are fantastic appearances that people affect . 
No one caught a glimpse of the sinister foundation . 
And moreover , who could have guessed such a thing ? There are marshes of this description in India . 
The water seems extraordinary , inexplicable , rippling though there is no wind , and agitated where it should be calm . 
One gazes at the surface of these causeless ebullitions one does not perceive the hydra which crawls on the bottom . 
Many men have a secret monster in this same manner , a dragon which gnaws them , a despair which inhabits their night . 
Such a man resembles other men , he goes and comes . 
No one knows that he bears within him a frightful parasitic pain with a thousand teeth , which lives within the unhappy man , and of which he is dying . 
No one knows that this man is a gulf . 
He is stagnant but deep . 
From time to time , a trouble of which the onlooker understands nothing appears on his surface . 
A mysterious wrinkle is formed , then vanishes , then re appears an air bubble rises and bursts . 
It is the breathing of the unknown beast . 
Many weeks passed in this manner . 
A new life gradually took possession of Cosette the relations which marriage creates , visits , the care of the house , pleasures , great matters . 
Cosette's pleasures were not costly , they consisted in one thing being with Marius . 
The great occupation of her life was to go out with him , to remain with him . 
Toussaint could not get on with Nicolette , the soldering of two elderly maids being impossible , and she went away . 
The grandfather was well Marius argued a case here and there Aunt Gillenormand peacefully led that life aside which sufficed for her , beside the new household . 
Jean Valjean came every day . 
The address as thou disappeared , the you , the Madame , the Monsieur Jean , rendered him another person to Cosette . 
The care which he had himself taken to detach her from him was succeeding . 
She became more and more gay and less and less tender . 
Yet she still loved him sincerely , and he felt it . 
Who are you then ? I don't like all this . 
If I did not know how good you are , I should be afraid of you . 
He still lived in the Rue de l'Homme Arme , because he could not make up his mind to remove to a distance from the quarter where Cosette dwelt . 
At first , he only remained a few minutes with Cosette , and then went away . 
Little by little he acquired the habit of making his visits less brief . 
One would have said that he was taking advantage of the authorization of the days which were lengthening , he arrived earlier and departed later . 
One day Cosette chanced to say father to him . 
A flash of joy illuminated Jean Valjean's melancholy old countenance . 
He caught her up Say Jean . 
Ah ! truly , she replied with a burst of laughter , Monsieur Jean . 
That is right , said he . 
And he turned aside so that she might not see him wipe his eyes . 
CHAPTER III THEY RECALL THE GARDEN OF THE RUE PLUMET This was the last time . 
After that last flash of light , complete extinction ensued . 
The eye eventually becomes accustomed to the light of a cellar . 
In short , it sufficed for him to have an apparition of Cosette every day . 
His whole life was concentrated in that one hour . 
We must not be ungrateful . 
And away they flitted , like two swallows towards the spring . 
This garden of the Rue Plumet produced on them the effect of the dawn . 
They already had behind them in life something which was like the springtime of their love . 
The house in the Rue Plumet being held on a lease , still belonged to Cosette . 
They went to that garden and that house . 
There they found themselves again , there they forgot themselves . 
That evening , at the usual hour , Jean Valjean came to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire . 
Madame went out with Monsieur and has not yet returned , Basque said to him . 
He seated himself in silence , and waited an hour . 
He departed with drooping head . 
Cosette was so intoxicated with her walk to their garden , and so joyous at having lived a whole day in her past , that she talked of nothing else on the morrow . 
She did not notice that she had not seen Jean Valjean . 
In what way did you go thither ? Jean Valjean asked her . 
And how did you return ? In a hackney carriage . 
For some time , Jean Valjean had noticed the economical life led by the young people . 
He was troubled by it . 
Marius' economy was severe , and that word had its absolute meaning for Jean Valjean . 
He hazarded a query Why do you not have a carriage of your own ? A pretty coupe would only cost you five hundred francs a month . 
I don't know , replied Cosette . 
It is like Toussaint , resumed Jean Valjean . 
You have not replaced her . 
But you ought to have a maid . 
Have I not Marius ? You ought to have a house of your own , your own servants , a carriage , a box at the theatre . 
There is nothing too fine for you . 
Why not profit by your riches ? Wealth adds to happiness . 
Jean Valjean's visits were not abridged . 
When it is the heart which is slipping , one does not halt on the downward slope . 
Marius that word was inexhaustible those six letters contained volumes . 
In this manner , Jean Valjean contrived to remain a long time . 
It was so sweet to see Cosette , to forget by her side ! It alleviated his wounds . 
It frequently happened that Basque came twice to announce M. Gillenormand sends me to remind Madame la Baronne that dinner is served . 
On those days , Jean Valjean was very thoughtful on his return home . 
On the following day he observed that there was no fire on the hearth . 
And he furnished the explanation for himself . 
The cold weather has ceased . 
Heavens ! how cold it is here ! exclaimed Cosette when she entered . 
Why , no , said Jean Valjean . 
Was it you who told Basque not to make a fire then ? Yes , since we are now in the month of May . 
But we have a fire until June . 
One is needed all the year in this cellar . 
I thought that a fire was unnecessary . 
That is exactly like one of your ideas ! retorted Cosette . 
On the following day there was a fire . 
But the two arm chairs were arranged at the other end of the room near the door . 
What is the meaning of this ? thought Jean Valjean . 
He went for the arm chairs and restored them to their ordinary place near the hearth . 
This fire lighted once more encouraged him , however . 
He prolonged the conversation even beyond its customary limits . 
As he rose to take his leave , Cosette said to him My husband said a queer thing to me yesterday . 
What was it ? He said to me Cosette , we have an income of thirty thousand livres . 
Twenty seven that you own , and three that my grandfather gives me . 
I replied That makes thirty . 
He went on Would you have the courage to live on the three thousand ? I answered Yes , on nothing . 
Provided that it was with you . 
And then I asked Why do you say that to me ? He replied I wanted to know . 
Jean Valjean found not a word to answer . 
Cosette probably expected some explanation from him he listened in gloomy silence . 
He went back to the Rue de l'Homme Arme he was so deeply absorbed that he mistook the door and instead of entering his own house , he entered the adjoining dwelling . 
It was only after having ascended nearly two stories that he perceived his error and went down again . 
His mind was swarming with conjectures . 
Moreover , Jean Valjean began vaguely to surmise that he was being shown the door . 
On the following day , he underwent something like a shock on entering the ground floor room . 
The arm chairs had disappeared . 
There was not a single chair of any sort . 
Ah , what's this ! exclaimed Cosette as she entered , no chairs ! Where are the arm chairs ? They are no longer here , replied Jean Valjean . 
This is too much ! Jean Valjean stammered It was I who told Basque to remove them . 
And your reason ? I have only a few minutes to stay to day . 
A brief stay is no reason for remaining standing . 
I think that Basque needed the chairs for the drawing room . 
Why ? You have company this evening , no doubt . 
Jean Valjean had not another word to say . 
To have the chairs carried off ! The other day you had the fire put out . 
How odd you are ! Adieu ! murmured Jean Valjean . 
He did not say Adieu , Cosette . 
But he had not the strength to say Adieu , Madame . 
He went away utterly overwhelmed . 
This time he had understood . 
On the following day he did not come . 
Cosette only observed the fact in the evening . 
Why , said she , Monsieur Jean has not been here today . 
And she felt a slight twinge at her heart , but she hardly perceived it , being immediately diverted by a kiss from Marius . 
On the following day he did not come . 
Cosette paid no heed to this , passed her evening and slept well that night , as usual , and thought of it only when she woke . 
She was so happy ! She speedily despatched Nicolette to M. Jean's house to inquire whether he were ill , and why he had not come on the previous evening . 
Nicolette brought back the reply of M. Jean that he was not ill . 
As soon as he was able . 
Moreover , he was on the point of taking a little journey . 
Madame must remember that it was his custom to take trips from time to time . 
They were not to worry about him . 
They were not to think of him . 
Nicolette on entering M. Jean's had repeated to him her mistress' very words . 
That Madame had sent her to inquire why M. Jean bad not come on the preceding evening . 
It is two days since I have been there , said Jean Valjean gently . 
But the remark passed unnoticed by Nicolette , who did not report it to Cosette . 
One would have said that , while desirous of reaching his destination , he feared the moment when he should be close at hand . 
The vacillation of his head and the fixity of his eyeballs suggested the thought of the magnetic needle seeking the pole . 
The old man tasted its bitter flavor . 
One day he stopped at the corner of the Rue Culture Sainte Catherine and looked at the Rue des Filles du Calvaire from a distance . 
Then he shook his head slowly from right to left , as though refusing himself something , and retraced his steps . 
Soon he no longer came as far as the Rue Saint Louis . 
One would have said that he was a pendulum which was no longer wound up , and whose oscillations were growing shorter before ceasing altogether . 
His whole countenance expressed this single idea What is the use ? His eye was dim no more radiance . 
His tears were also exhausted they no longer collected in the corner of his eye lid that thoughtful eye was dry . 
The old man's head was still craned forward his chin moved at times the folds in his gaunt neck were painful to behold . 
Sometimes , when the weather was bad , he had an umbrella under his arm , but he never opened it . 
The good women of the quarter said He is an innocent . 
The children followed him and laughed . 
He had regretted the promise into which he had allowed himself to be drawn . 
He had often said to himself that he had done wrong in making that concession to despair . 
He had confined himself to gradually estranging Jean Valjean from his house and to effacing him , as much as possible , from Cosette's mind . 
He had , in a manner , always placed himself between Cosette and Jean Valjean , sure that , in this way , she would not perceive nor think of the latter . 
It was more than effacement , it was an eclipse . 
Marius did what he considered necessary and just . 
He believed at that moment that he had a grave duty to perform the restitution of the six hundred thousand francs to some one whom he sought with all possible discretion . 
In the meanwhile , he abstained from touching that money . 
As for Cosette , she had not been initiated into any of these secrets but it would be harsh to condemn her also . 
There existed between Marius and her an all powerful magnetism , which caused her to do , instinctively and almost mechanically , what Marius wished . 
She was conscious of Marius' will in the direction of Monsieur Jean , she conformed to it . 
Her husband had not been obliged to say anything to her she yielded to the vague but clear pressure of his tacit intentions , and obeyed blindly . 
Her obedience in this instance consisted in not remembering what Marius forgot . 
She was not obliged to make any effort to accomplish this . 
Let us not go too far , however in what concerns Jean Valjean , this forgetfulness and obliteration were merely superficial . 
She was rather heedless than forgetful . 
At bottom , she was sincerely attached to the man whom she had so long called her father but she loved her husband still more dearly . 
This was what had somewhat disturbed the balance of her heart , which leaned to one side only . 
It sometimes happened that Cosette spoke of Jean Valjean and expressed her surprise . 
Then Marius calmed her He is absent , I think . 
Did not he say that he was setting out on a journey ? That is true , thought Cosette . 
He had a habit of disappearing in this fashion . 
But not for so long . 
Two or three times she despatched Nicolette to inquire in the Rue de l'Homme Arme whether M. Jean had returned from his journey . 
Jean Valjean caused the answer no to be given . 
Cosette asked nothing more , since she had but one need on earth , Marius . 
Let us also say that , on their side , Cosette and Marius had also been absent . 
They had been to Vernon . 
Marius had taken Cosette to his father's grave . 
Marius gradually won Cosette away from Jean Valjean . 
Moreover that which is called , far too harshly in certain cases , the ingratitude of children , is not always a thing so deserving of reproach as it is supposed . 
It is the ingratitude of nature . 
Nature , as we have elsewhere said , looks before her . 
Nature divides living beings into those who are arriving and those who are departing . 
Those who are departing are turned towards the shadows , those who are arriving towards the light . 
Hence a gulf which is fatal on the part of the old , and involuntary on the part of the young . 
This breach , at first insensible , increases slowly , like all separations of branches . 
The boughs , without becoming detached from the trunk , grow away from it . 
It is no fault of theirs . 
Youth goes where there is joy , festivals , vivid lights , love . 
Old age goes towards the end . 
They do not lose sight of each other , but there is no longer a close connection . 
Young people feel the cooling off of life old people , that of the tomb . 
Let us not blame these poor children . 
This was the last oscillation of the pendulum . 
On the following day he did not leave his apartment . 
On the day after that , he did not leave his bed . 
The plate is quite full . 
Look at the water jug . 
That proves that you have drunk it does not prove that you have eaten . 
I will eat to morrow . 
I am not pleased with you , replied the portress . 
Jean Valjean saw no other human creature than this good woman . 
There are streets in Paris through which no one ever passes , and houses to which no one ever comes . 
He was in one of those streets and one of those houses . 
While he still went out , he had purchased of a coppersmith , for a few sous , a little copper crucifix which he had hung up on a nail opposite his bed . 
That gibbet is always good to look at . 
A week passed , and Jean Valjean had not taken a step in his room . 
He still remained in bed . 
The portress said to her husband The good man upstairs yonder does not get up , he no longer eats , he will not last long . 
That man has his sorrows , that he has . 
You won't get it out of my head that his daughter has made a bad marriage . 
The porter replied , with the tone of marital sovereignty If he's rich , let him have a doctor . 
If he is not rich , let him go without . 
If he has no doctor he will die . 
And if he has one ? He will die , said the porter . 
Such a neat old man ! He's as white as a chicken . 
She caught sight of the doctor of the quarter as he passed the end of the street she took it upon herself to request him to come up stairs . 
It's on the second floor , said she . 
You have only to enter . 
As the good man no longer stirs from his bed , the door is always unlocked . 
The doctor saw Jean Valjean and spoke with him . 
When he came down again the portress interrogated him Well , doctor ? Your sick man is very ill indeed . 
What is the matter with him ? Everything and nothing . 
He is a man who , to all appearances , has lost some person who is dear to him . 
What did he say to you ? He told me that he was in good health . 
Shall you come again , doctor ? Yes , replied the doctor . 
But some one else besides must come . 
Then , no doubt under the pressure of some supreme preoccupation , he made an effort , drew himself up into a sitting posture and dressed himself . 
He put on his old workingman's clothes . 
As he no longer went out , he had returned to them and preferred them . 
He was obliged to pause many times while dressing himself merely putting his arms through his waistcoat made the perspiration trickle from his forehead . 
Since he had been alone , he had placed his bed in the antechamber , in order to inhabit that deserted apartment as little as possible . 
He opened the valise and drew from it Cosette's outfit . 
He spread it out on his bed . 
The Bishop's candlesticks were in their place on the chimney piece . 
He took from a drawer two wax candles and put them in the candlesticks . 
Then , although it was still broad daylight , it was summer , he lighted them . 
In the same way candles are to be seen lighted in broad daylight in chambers where there is a corpse . 
Every step that he took in going from one piece of furniture to another exhausted him , and he was obliged to sit down . 
He caught sight of himself in this mirror , and did not recognize himself . 
He was eighty years old before Marius' marriage , he would have hardly been taken for fifty that year had counted for thirty . 
What he bore on his brow was no longer the wrinkles of age , it was the mysterious mark of death . 
The hollowing of that pitiless nail could be felt there . 
He gazed into space with an air of reproach one would have said that he was one of those grand tragic beings who have cause to complain of some one . 
He laboriously dragged a table and the old arm chair to the fireside , and placed upon the table a pen , some ink and some paper . 
That done , he had a fainting fit . 
When he recovered consciousness , he was thirsty . 
As he could not lift the jug , he tipped it over painfully towards his mouth , and swallowed a draught . 
He wiped his brow from time to time . 
Then he turned towards the bed , and , still seated , for he could not stand , he gazed at the little black gown and all those beloved objects . 
These contemplations lasted for hours which seemed minutes . 
He wrote slowly the few following lines Cosette , I bless thee . 
I am going to explain to thee . 
Thy husband was right in giving me to understand that I ought to go away but there is a little error in what he believed , though he was in the right . 
Love him well even after I am dead . 
Monsieur Pontmercy , love my darling child well . 
Here is the whole matter White jet comes from Norway , black jet comes from England , black glass jewellery comes from Germany . 
Jet is the lightest , the most precious , the most costly . 
Imitations can be made in France as well as in Germany . 
What is needed is a little anvil two inches square , and a lamp burning spirits of wine to soften the wax . 
The wax was formerly made with resin and lampblack , and cost four livres the pound . 
I invented a way of making it with gum shellac and turpentine . 
It does not cost more than thirty sous , and is much better . 
Buckles are made with a violet glass which is stuck fast , by means of this wax , to a little framework of black iron . 
The glass must be violet for iron jewellery , and black for gold jewellery . 
Spain buys a great deal of it . 
It is the country of jet . 
Oh ! he exclaimed within himself lamentable cries , heard by God alone , all is over . 
I shall never see her more . 
She is a smile which passed over me . 
I am about to plunge into the night without even seeing her again . 
She would smile on me , she would say a word to me , would that do any harm to any one ? No , all is over , and forever . 
Here I am all alone . 
My God ! My God ! I shall never see her again ! At that moment there came a knock at the door . 
Cosette had taken the grandfather's arm and was strolling in the garden . 
A letter , like a man , may have an unprepossessing exterior . 
Coarse paper , coarsely folded the very sight of certain missives is displeasing . 
The letter which Basque had brought was of this sort . 
Nothing evokes a memory like an odor . 
He looked at the superscription To Monsieur , Monsieur le Baron Pommerci . 
The recognition of the tobacco caused him to recognize the writing as well . 
It may be said that amazement has its lightning flashes . 
Marius was , as it were , illuminated by one of these flashes . 
The sense of smell , that mysterious aid to memory , had just revived a whole world within him . 
This was certainly the paper , the fashion of folding , the dull tint of ink it was certainly the well known handwriting , especially was it the same tobacco . 
The Jondrette garret rose before his mind . 
I only bear the same as him , happy if this memory recommends me to the eccellence of your kindnesses . 
The benefit with which you will honor me will be reciprocle . 
I am in possession of a secret concerning an individual . 
I hold the secret at your disposal desiring to have the honor to be huseful to you . 
I will furnish you with the simple means of driving from your honorabel family that individual who has no right there , madame la baronne being of lofty birth . 
The sanctuary of virtue cannot cohabit longer with crime without abdicating . 
I awate in the entichamber the orders of monsieur le baron . 
The letter was signed Thenard . 
This signature was not false . 
It was merely a trifle abridged . 
Moreover , the rigmarole and the orthography completed the revelation . 
The certificate of origin was complete . 
After a start of surprise , he underwent a feeling of happiness . 
He opened the drawer of his secretary , took out several bank notes , put them in his pocket , closed the secretary again , and rang the bell . 
Basque half opened the door . 
Show the man in , said Marius . 
A fresh surprise for Marius . 
The man who entered was an utter stranger to him . 
He was dressed in black from head to foot , in garments that were very threadbare but clean a bunch of seals depending from his fob suggested the idea of a watch . 
He held in his hand an old hat ! He walked in a bent attitude , and the curve in his spine augmented the profundity of his bow . 
The first thing that struck the observer was , that this personage's coat , which was too ample although carefully buttoned , had not been made for him . 
Here a short digression becomes necessary . 
Not for too long , which might have proved embarrassing for the villain . 
This costumer was called the Changer the pickpockets of Paris had given him this name and knew him by no other . 
He had a tolerably complete wardrobe . 
The rags with which he tricked out people were almost probable . 
This creature was the costumer of the immense drama which knavery plays in Paris . 
His lair was the green room whence theft emerged , and into which roguery retreated . 
On the following day , the clothes were faithfully returned , and the Changer , who trusted the thieves with everything , was never robbed . 
Every pickpocket who exceeded or fell short of the human average was ill at his ease in the Changer's costumes . 
It was necessary that one should not be either too fat or too lean . 
The changer had foreseen only ordinary men . 
He had taken the measure of the species from the first rascal who came to hand , who is neither stout nor thin , neither tall nor short . 
Hence adaptations which were sometimes difficult and from which the Changer's clients extricated themselves as best they might . 
The costume of a statesman was designated as follows in the Changer's catalogue we copy A coat of black cloth , trowsers of black wool , a silk waistcoat , boots and linen . 
All this belonged to the statesman , the ex ambassador . 
Marius' disappointment on beholding another man than the one whom he expected to see turned to the newcomer's disadvantage . 
It is always a good bit of tactics in knavery to pretend to recognize some one whom one does not know . 
Marius paid attention to the manner of this man's speech . 
He spied on his accent and gesture , but his disappointment increased the pronunciation was nasal and absolutely unlike the dry , shrill tone which he had expected . 
I know neither Madame Bagration nor M. Dambray , said he . 
I have never set foot in the house of either of them in my life . 
The personage , determined to be gracious at any cost , insisted . 
Then it must have been at Chateaubriand's that I have seen Monsieur ! I know Chateaubriand very well . 
He sometimes says to me Thenard , my friend . 
won't you drink a glass of wine with me ? Marius' brow grew more and more severe I have never had the honor of being received by M. de Chateaubriand . 
Let us cut it short . 
What do you want ? The man bowed lower at that harsh voice . 
Monsieur le Baron , deign to listen to me . 
There is in America , in a district near Panama , a village called la Joya . 
Why so many precautions ? because the country is dangerous it is full of cannibals . 
Then why do people go there ? because the country is marvellous gold is found there . 
What are you driving at ? interrupted Marius , who had passed from disappointment to impatience . 
At this , Monsieur le Baron . 
I am an old and weary diplomat . 
Ancient civilization has thrown me on my own devices . 
I want to try savages . 
Well ? Monsieur le Baron , egotism is the law of the world . 
The proletarian peasant woman , who toils by the day , turns round when the diligence passes by , the peasant proprietress , who toils in her field , does not turn round . 
The dog of the poor man barks at the rich man , the dog of the rich man barks at the poor man . 
Self interest that's the object of men . 
Gold , that's the loadstone . 
I should like to go and establish myself at la Joya . 
There are three of us . 
I have my spouse and my young lady a very beautiful girl . 
The journey is long and costly . 
I need a little money . 
What concern is that of mine ? demanded Marius . 
The stranger stretched his neck out of his cravat , a gesture characteristic of the vulture , and replied with an augmented smile . 
Has not Monsieur le Baron perused my letter ? There was some truth in this . 
The fact is , that the contents of the epistle had slipped Marius' mind . 
He had seen the writing rather than read the letter . 
He could hardly recall it . 
But a moment ago a fresh start had been given him . 
He had noted that detail my spouse and my young lady . 
He fixed a penetrating glance on the stranger . 
An examining judge could not have done the look better . 
He almost lay in wait for him . 
He confined himself to replying State the case precisely . 
So be it , Monsieur le Baron . 
I have a secret to sell to you . 
A secret ? A secret . 
Which concerns me ? Somewhat . 
What is the secret ? Marius scrutinized the man more and more as he listened to him . 
I commence gratis , said the stranger . 
You will see that I am interesting . 
Monsieur le Baron , you have in your house a thief and an assassin . 
In my house ? no , said he . 
The imperturbable stranger brushed his hat with his elbow and went on An assassin and a thief . 
I speak of recent deeds , of actual facts as still unknown to justice at this hour . 
This man has insinuated himself into your confidence , and almost into your family under a false name . 
I am about to tell you his real name . 
And to tell it to you for nothing . 
His name is Jean Valjean . 
I am going to tell you , equally for nothing , who he is . 
He is an ex convict . 
You know it since I have had the honor of telling you . 
No. I knew it before . 
Marius' cold tone , that double reply of I know it , his laconicism , which was not favorable to dialogue , stirred up some smouldering wrath in the stranger . 
He launched a furious glance on the sly at Marius , which was instantly extinguished . 
Rapid as it was , this glance was of the kind which a man recognizes when he has once beheld it it did not escape Marius . 
In any case , you ought to perceive that I am well informed . 
Now what I have to tell you is known to myself alone . 
This concerns the fortune of Madame la Baronne . 
It is an extraordinary secret . 
It is for sale I make you the first offer of it . 
I know that secret as well as the others , said Marius . 
The personage felt the necessity of lowering his price a trifle . 
Monsieur le Baron , say ten thousand francs and I will speak . 
I repeat to you that there is nothing which you can tell me . 
I know what you wish to say to me . 
A fresh flash gleamed in the man's eye . 
He exclaimed But I must dine to day , nevertheless . 
It is an extraordinary secret , I tell you . 
Monsieur le Baron , I will speak . 
Marius gazed intently at him I know your extraordinary secret , just as I knew Jean Valjean's name , just as I know your name . 
That is not difficult , Monsieur le Baron . 
I had the honor to write to you and to tell it to you . 
Who's that ? In danger the porcupine bristles up , the beetle feigns death , the old guard forms in a square this man burst into laughter . 
Then he flicked a grain of dust from the sleeve of his coat with a fillip . 
Marius continued You are also Jondrette the workman , Fabantou the comedian , Genflot the poet , Don Alvares the Spaniard , and Mistress Balizard . 
Mistress what ? And you kept a pot house at Montfermeil . 
A pot house ! Never . 
And I tell you that your name is Thenardier . 
And that you are a rascal . 
And Marius drew a bank note from his pocket and flung it in his face . 
Thanks ! Pardon me ! five hundred francs ! Monsieur le Baron ! And the man , overcome , bowed , seized the note and examined it . 
Five hundred francs ! he began again , taken aback . 
And he stammered in a low voice An honest rustler . 
Fafiot is the slang term for a bank bill , derived from its rustling noise . 
Then brusquely Well , so be it ! he exclaimed . 
Let us put ourselves at our ease . 
Monsieur le Baron is infallible , he said in a clear voice whence all nasal twang had disappeared , I am Thenardier . 
And he straightened up his crooked back . 
Thenardier , for it was really he , was strangely surprised he would have been troubled , had he been capable of such a thing . 
He had come to bring astonishment , and it was he who had received it . 
This humiliation had been worth five hundred francs to him , and , taking it all in all , he accepted it but he was none the less bewildered . 
He beheld this Baron Pontmercy for the first time , and , in spite of his disguise , this Baron Pontmercy recognized him , and recognized him thoroughly . 
And not only was this Baron perfectly informed as to Thenardier , but he seemed well posted as to Jean Valjean . 
He had written to him , without knowing him , the letter with which the reader is acquainted . 
No connection between that Marius and M. le Baron Pontmercy was possible in his mind . 
From the man he had easily reached the name . 
He knew that Madame la Baronne Pontmercy was Cosette . 
But he meant to be discreet in that quarter . 
Who was Cosette ? He did not know exactly himself . 
From Thenardier's point of view , the conversation with Marius had not yet begun . 
Moreover , he had something decisive to say , and , even against this very well informed and well armed Baron Pontmercy , he felt himself strong . 
For men of Thenardier's nature , every dialogue is a combat . 
So he had hold of Thenardier at last . 
That man whom he had so greatly desired to find was before him . 
He could honor Colonel Pontmercy's recommendation . 
In any case , he was content . 
By the side of this duty there was another to elucidate , if possible , the source of Cosette's fortune . 
The opportunity appeared to present itself . 
It might prove useful to see the bottom of this man . 
Thenardier had caused the honest rustler to disappear in his fob , and was gazing at Marius with a gentleness that was almost tender . 
Thenardier , I have told you your name . 
Now , would you like to have me tell you your secret the one that you came here to reveal to me ? I have information of my own , also . 
You shall see that I know more about it than you do . 
Jean Valjean , as you have said , is an assassin and a thief . 
A thief , because he robbed a wealthy manufacturer , whose ruin he brought about . 
An assassin , because he assassinated police agent Javert . 
I don't understand , sir , ejaculated Thenardier . 
I will make myself intelligible . 
This man had become a just man in the full force of the term . 
In a trade , the manufacture of black glass goods , he made the fortune of an entire city . 
As far as his personal fortune was concerned he made that also , but as a secondary matter , and in some sort , by accident . 
He was the foster father of the poor . 
He founded hospitals , opened schools , visited the sick , dowered young girls , supported widows , and adopted orphans he was like the guardian angel of the country . 
He refused the cross , he was appointed Mayor . 
This convict who robbed M. Madeleine was Jean Valjean . 
As for the other fact , you have nothing to tell me about it either . 
Jean Valjean killed the agent Javert he shot him with a pistol . 
I , the person who is speaking to you , was present . 
But the smile returned instantly . 
The inferior's triumph in the presence of his superior must be wheedling . 
Thenardier contented himself with saying to Marius Monsieur le Baron , we are on the wrong track . 
And he emphasized this phrase by making his bunch of seals execute an expressive whirl . 
What ! broke forth Marius , do you dispute that ? These are facts . 
The confidence with which Monsieur le Baron honors me renders it my duty to tell him so . 
Truth and justice before all things . 
I do not like to see folks accused unjustly . 
Monsieur le Baron , Jean Valjean did not rob M. Madeleine and Jean Valjean did not kill Javert . 
This is too much ! How is this ? For two reasons . 
What are they ? Speak . 
This is the first he did not rob M. Madeleine , because it is Jean Valjean himself who was M. Madeleine . 
What tale are you telling me ? And this is the second he did not assassinate Javert , because the person who killed Javert was Javert . 
What do you mean to say ? That Javert committed suicide . 
Prove it ! prove it ! cried Marius beside himself . 
Thenardier resumed , scanning his phrase after the manner of the ancient Alexandrine measure Police agent Ja vert was found drowned un der a boat of the Pont au Change . 
But prove it ! Thenardier drew from his pocket a large envelope of gray paper , which seemed to contain sheets folded in different sizes . 
I have my papers , he said calmly . 
And he added Monsieur le Baron , in your interests I desired to know Jean Valjean thoroughly . 
I say that Jean Valjean and M. Madeleine are one and the same man , and I say that Javert had no other assassin than Javert . 
If I speak , it is because I have proofs . 
Not manuscript proofs writing is suspicious , handwriting is complaisant , but printed proofs . 
As he spoke , Thenardier extracted from the envelope two copies of newspapers , yellow , faded , and strongly saturated with tobacco . 
One of these two newspapers , broken at every fold and falling into rags , seemed much older than the other . 
Two facts , two proofs , remarked Thenardier . 
And he offered the two newspapers , unfolded , to Marius , The reader is acquainted with these two papers . 
The information of the cashier clerk had been false , and he himself had been deceived . 
Jean Valjean , who had suddenly grown grand , emerged from his cloud . 
Marius could not repress a cry of joy . 
He's an assassin and a robber . 
And he added , in the tone of a man who begins to feel that he possesses some authority Let us be calm . 
Robber , assassin those words which Marius thought had disappeared and which returned , fell upon him like an ice cold shower bath . 
Jean Valjean did not rob Madeleine , but he is a thief . 
He did not kill Javert , but he is a murderer . 
What I have to reveal to you is absolutely unknown . 
It belongs to unpublished matter . 
And perhaps you will find in it the source of the fortune so skilfully presented to Madame la Baronne by Jean Valjean . 
I might interrupt you at this point , said Marius , but go on . 
Monsieur le Baron , I will tell you all , leaving the recompense to your generosity . 
This secret is worth massive gold . 
I am a little fatigued , permit me to take a chair . 
Marius seated himself and motioned to him to do the same . 
Marius abruptly drew his chair closer to that of Thenardier . 
It was , I repeat , on the th of June it might have been eight o'clock in the evening . 
The man hears a noise in the sewer . 
Greatly surprised , he hides himself and lies in wait . 
It was the sound of footsteps , some one was walking in the dark , and coming in his direction . 
Strange to say , there was another man in the sewer besides himself . 
The grating of the outlet from the sewer was not far off . 
A little light which fell through it permitted him to recognize the newcomer , and to see that the man was carrying something on his back . 
He was walking in a bent attitude . 
The man who was walking in a bent attitude was an ex convict , and what he was dragging on his shoulders was a corpse . 
Assassination caught in the very act , if ever there was such a thing . 
As for the theft , that is understood one does not kill a man gratis . 
This convict was on his way to fling the body into the river . 
Marius' chair approached still nearer . 
Thenardier took advantage of this to draw a long breath . 
He went on Monsieur le Baron , a sewer is not the Champ de Mars . 
One lacks everything there , even room . 
When two men are there , they must meet . 
The man domiciled there and the passer by were forced to bid each other good day , greatly to the regret of both . 
The passer by said to the inhabitant You see what I have on my back , I must get out , you have the key , give it to me . 
That convict was a man of terrible strength . 
There was no way of refusing . 
Nevertheless , the man who had the key parleyed , simply to gain time . 
While talking , the man contrived to tear and pull off behind , without the assassin perceiving it , a bit of the assassinated man's coat . 
A document for conviction , you understand a means of recovering the trace of things and of bringing home the crime to the criminal . 
He put this document for conviction in his pocket . 
The man who was carrying the corpse was Jean Valjean the one who had the key is speaking to you at this moment and the piece of the coat . 
He found the key , opened the cupboard , plunged his arm into it without looking , and without his frightened gaze quitting the rag which Thenardier still held outspread . 
The young man was myself , and here is the coat ! cried Marius , and he flung upon the floor an old black coat all covered with blood . 
Then , snatching the fragment from the hands of Thenardier , he crouched down over the coat , and laid the torn morsel against the tattered skirt . 
The rent fitted exactly , and the strip completed the coat . 
This is what he thought I'm struck all of a heap . 
Marius rose to his feet trembling , despairing , radiant . 
He fumbled in his pocket and stalked furiously to Thenardier , presenting to him and almost thrusting in his face his fist filled with bank notes for five hundred and a thousand francs . 
You are an infamous wretch ! you are a liar , a calumniator , a villain . 
You came to accuse that man , you have only justified him you wanted to ruin him , you have only succeeded in glorifying him . 
And it is you who are the thief ! And it is you who are the assassin ! I saw you , Thenardier Jondrette , in that lair on the Rue de l'Hopital . 
I know enough about you to send you to the galleys and even further if I choose . 
Here are a thousand francs , bully that you are ! And he flung a thousand franc note at Thenardier . 
Waterloo ! growled Thenardier , pocketing the five hundred francs along with the thousand . 
Yes , assassin ! You there saved the life of a Colonel . 
Of a General , said Thenardier , elevating his head . 
Of a Colonel ! repeated Marius in a rage . 
I wouldn't give a ha'penny for a general . 
And you come here to commit infamies ! I tell you that you have committed all crimes . 
Go ! disappear ! Only be happy , that is all that I desire . 
Ah ! monster ! here are three thousand francs more . 
You will depart to morrow , for America , with your daughter for your wife is dead , you abominable liar . 
I shall watch over your departure , you ruffian , and at that moment I will count out to you twenty thousand francs . 
Go get yourself hung elsewhere ! Monsieur le Baron ! replied Thenardier , bowing to the very earth , eternal gratitude . 
Struck by lightning he was , but he was also content and he would have been greatly angered had he had a lightning rod to ward off such lightning as that . 
Let us finish with this man at once . 
The moral wretchedness of Thenardier , the bourgeois who had missed his vocation , was irremediable . 
He was in America what he had been in Europe . 
Contact with an evil man sometimes suffices to corrupt a good action and to cause evil things to spring from it . 
With Marius' money , Thenardier set up as a slave dealer . 
As soon as Thenardier had left the house , Marius rushed to the garden , where Cosette was still walking . 
Cosette ! Cosette ! he cried . 
Come ! come quick ! Let us go . 
Basque , a carriage ! Cosette , come . 
Ah ! My God ! It was he who saved my life ! Let us not lose a minute ! Put on your shawl . 
Cosette thought him mad and obeyed . 
He could not breathe , he laid his hand on his heart to restrain its throbbing . 
He paced back and forth with huge strides , he embraced Cosette Ah ! Cosette ! I am an unhappy wretch ! said he . 
He began to catch a glimpse in Jean Valjean of some indescribably lofty and melancholy figure . 
An unheard of virtue , supreme and sweet , humble in its immensity , appeared to him . 
The convict was transfigured into Christ . 
Marius was dazzled by this prodigy . 
He did not know precisely what he beheld , but it was grand . 
In an instant , a hackney carriage stood in front of the door . 
Marius helped Cosette in and darted in himself . 
Driver , said he , Rue de l'Homme Arme , Number . 
Ah ! what happiness ! ejaculated Cosette . 
Rue de l'Homme Arme , I did not dare to speak to you of that . 
We are going to see M. Jean . 
Thy father ! Cosette , thy father more than ever . 
Cosette , I guess it . 
You told me that you had never received the letter that I sent you by Gavroche . 
It must have fallen into his hands . 
Cosette , he went to the barricade to save me . 
As it is a necessity with him to be an angel , he saved others also he saved Javert . 
He rescued me from that gulf to give me to you . 
He carried me on his back through that frightful sewer . 
Ah ! I am a monster of ingratitude . 
Cosette , after having been your providence , he became mine . 
Just imagine , there was a terrible quagmire enough to drown one a hundred times over , to drown one in mire . 
Cosette ! he made me traverse it . 
I was unconscious I saw nothing , I heard nothing , I could know nothing of my own adventure . 
We are going to bring him back , to take him with us , whether he is willing or not , he shall never leave us again . 
If only he is at home ! Provided only that we can find him , I will pass the rest of my life in venerating him . 
Yes , that is how it should be , do you see , Cosette ? Gavroche must have delivered my letter to him . 
Cosette did not understand a word . 
You are right , she said to him . 
Meanwhile the carriage rolled on . 
CHAPTER V A NIGHT BEHIND WHICH THERE IS DAY Jean Valjean turned round at the knock which he heard on his door . 
Come in , he said feebly . 
Cosette and Marius made their appearance . 
Cosette rushed into the room . 
Marius remained on the threshold , leaning against the jamb of the door . 
Cosette ! said Jean Valjean . 
And he sat erect in his chair , his arms outstretched and trembling , haggard , livid , gloomy , an immense joy in his eyes . 
Cosette , stifling with emotion , fell upon Jean Valjean's breast . 
Marius could find no words , and Jean Valjean added Thanks . 
Cosette tore off her shawl and tossed her hat on the bed . 
It embarrasses me , said she . 
And , seating herself on the old man's knees , she put aside his white locks with an adorable movement , and kissed his brow . 
Jean Valjean , bewildered , let her have her own way . 
Cosette , who only understood in a very confused manner , redoubled her caresses , as though she desired to pay Marius' debt . 
Jean Valjean stammered How stupid people are ! I thought that I should never see her again . 
Imagine , Monsieur Pontmercy , at the very moment when you entered , I was saying to myself All is over . 
Was not I an idiot ? Just see how idiotic one can be ! One reckons without the good God . 
The good God says You fancy that you are about to be abandoned , stupid ! No. No , things will not go so . 
Come , there is a good man yonder who is in need of an angel . 
And the angel comes , and one sees one's Cosette again ! and one sees one's little Cosette once more ! Ah ! I was very unhappy . 
For a moment he could not speak , then he went on I really needed to see Cosette a little bit now and then . 
A heart needs a bone to gnaw . 
But I was perfectly conscious that I was in the way . 
I gave myself reasons They do not want you , keep in your own course , one has not the right to cling eternally . 
I am fond of that pattern . 
It was thy husband who chose it , was it not ? And then , thou shouldst have some cashmere shawls . 
Let me call her thou , Monsieur Pontmercy . 
It will not be for long . 
I sent Nicolette , the answer always was He is absent . 
At that word which Jean Valjean had just uttered once more , all that was swelling Marius' heart found vent . 
He has done more he has given you to me . 
And after having saved me , and after having given you to me , Cosette , what has he done with himself ? He has sacrificed himself . 
Every courage , every virtue , every heroism , every sanctity he possesses ! Cosette , that man is an angel ! Hush ! hush ! said Jean Valjean in a low voice . 
You save people's lives , and you conceal it from them ! You do more , under the pretext of unmasking yourself , you calumniate yourself . 
I told the truth , replied Jean Valjean . 
No , retorted Marius , the truth is the whole truth and that you did not tell . 
I thought that you were in the right . 
It was necessary that I should go away . 
If you had known about that affair , of the sewer , you would have made me remain near you . 
I was therefore forced to hold my peace . 
If I had spoken , it would have caused embarrassment in every way . 
It would have embarrassed what ? embarrassed whom ? retorted Marius . 
Do you think that you are going to stay here ? We shall carry you off . 
Ah ! good heavens ! when I reflect that it was by an accident that I have learned all this . 
You form a part of ourselves . 
You are her father , and mine . 
You shall not pass another day in this dreadful house . 
Do not imagine that you will be here to morrow . 
To morrow , said Jean Valjean , I shall not be here , but I shall not be with you . 
What do you mean ? replied Marius . 
Ah ! come now , we are not going to permit any more journeys . 
You shall never leave us again . 
We shall not loose our hold of you . 
This time it is for good , added Cosette . 
We have a carriage at the door . 
I shall run away with you . 
If necessary , I shall employ force . 
And she laughingly made a movement to lift the old man in her arms . 
Your chamber still stands ready in our house , she went on . 
If you only knew how pretty the garden is now ! The azaleas are doing very well there . 
The walks are sanded with river sand there are tiny violet shells . 
You shall eat my strawberries . 
And no more madame , no more Monsieur Jean , we are living under a Republic , everybody says thou , don't they , Marius ? The programme is changed . 
My poor , pretty , little robin red breast which used to put her head out of her window and look at me ! I cried over it . 
I should have liked to kill the cat . 
But now nobody cries any more . 
Everybody laughs , everybody is happy . 
You are going to come with us . 
How delighted grandfather will be ! You shall have your plot in the garden , you shall cultivate it , and we shall see whether your strawberries are as fine as mine . 
And , then , I shall do everything that you wish , and then , you will obey me prettily . 
Jean Valjean listened to her without hearing her . 
He heard the music of her voice rather than the sense of her words one of those large tears which are the sombre pearls of the soul welled up slowly in his eyes . 
He murmured The proof that God is good is that she is here . 
Jean Valjean continued It is quite true that it would be charming for us to live together . 
Their trees are full of birds . 
I would walk with Cosette . 
It is sweet to be among living people who bid each other good day , who call to each other in the garden . 
People see each other from early morning . 
We should each cultivate our own little corner . 
She would make me eat her strawberries . 
I would make her gather my roses . 
He paused and said gently It is a pity . 
The tear did not fall , it retreated , and Jean Valjean replaced it with a smile . 
Cosette took both the old man's hands in hers . 
My God ! said she , your hands are still colder than before . 
Are you ill ? Do you suffer ? I ? No , replied Jean Valjean . 
Only what ? I am going to die presently . 
To die ! exclaimed Marius . 
Yes , but that is nothing , said Jean Valjean . 
Marius gazed at the old man in amazement . 
Cosette uttered a heartrending cry . 
Father ! my father ! you will live . 
You are going to live . 
I insist upon your living , do you hear ? Jean Valjean raised his head towards her with adoration . 
Oh ! yes , forbid me to die . 
Who knows ? Perhaps I shall obey . 
I was on the verge of dying when you came . 
That stopped me , it seemed to me that I was born again . 
You are full of strength and life , cried Marius . 
Do you imagine that a person can die like this ? You have had sorrow , you shall have no more . 
It is I who ask your forgiveness , and on my knees ! You are going to live , and to live with us , and to live a long time . 
We take possession of you once more . 
There are two of us here who will henceforth have no other thought than your happiness . 
You see , resumed Cosette , all bathed in tears , that Marius says that you shall not die . 
Jean Valjean continued to smile . 
Death is a good arrangement . 
God knows better than we what we need . 
Come , be reasonable , nothing is possible now , I am fully conscious that all is over . 
And then , last night , I drank that whole jug of water . 
How good thy husband is , Cosette ! Thou art much better off with him than with me . 
A noise became audible at the door . 
It was the doctor entering . 
Good day , and farewell , doctor , said Jean Valjean . 
Here are my poor children . 
Marius stepped up to the doctor . 
He addressed to him only this single word Monsieur ? . 
But his manner of pronouncing it contained a complete question . 
The doctor replied to the question by an expressive glance . 
Because things are not agreeable , said Jean Valjean , that is no reason for being unjust towards God . 
Jean Valjean turned to Cosette . 
He began to gaze at her as though he wished to retain her features for eternity . 
In the depths of the shadow into which he had already descended , ecstasy was still possible to him when gazing at Cosette . 
The reflection of that sweet face lighted up his pale visage . 
The doctor felt of his pulse . 
Ah ! it was you that he wanted ! he murmured , looking at Cosette and Marius . 
And bending down to Marius' ear , he added in a very low voice Too late . 
Jean Valjean surveyed the doctor and Marius serenely , almost without ceasing to gaze at Cosette . 
These barely articulate words were heard to issue from his mouth It is nothing to die it is dreadful not to live . 
All at once he rose to his feet . 
These accesses of strength are sometimes the sign of the death agony . 
Then his chest sank in , his head wavered , as though the intoxication of the tomb were seizing hold upon him . 
His hands , which rested on his knees , began to press their nails into the stuff of his trousers . 
Cosette supported his shoulders , and sobbed , and tried to speak to him , but could not . 
Among the words mingled with that mournful saliva which accompanies tears , they distinguished words like the following Father , do not leave us . 
Is it possible that we have found you only to lose you again ? It might be said that agony writhes . 
It goes , comes , advances towards the sepulchre , and returns towards life . 
There is groping in the action of dying . 
Jean Valjean rallied after this semi swoon , shook his brow as though to make the shadows fall away from it and became almost perfectly lucid once more . 
He took a fold of Cosette's sleeve and kissed it . 
He is coming back ! doctor , he is coming back , cried Marius . 
You are good , both of you , said Jean Valjean . 
I am going to tell you what has caused me pain . 
What has pained me , Monsieur Pontmercy , is that you have not been willing to touch that money . 
That money really belongs to your wife . 
I will explain to you , my children , and for that reason , also , I am glad to see you . 
Black jet comes from England , white jet comes from Norway . 
All this is in this paper , which you will read . 
For bracelets , I invented a way of substituting for slides of soldered sheet iron , slides of iron laid together . 
It is prettier , better and less costly . 
You will understand how much money can be made in that way . 
So Cosette's fortune is really hers . 
I give you these details , in order that your mind may be set at rest . 
The portress had come upstairs and was gazing in at the half open door . 
But he could not prevent this zealous woman from exclaiming to the dying man before she disappeared Would you like a priest ? I have had one , replied Jean Valjean . 
And with his finger he seemed to indicate a point above his head where one would have said that he saw some one . 
It is probable , in fact , that the Bishop was present at this death agony . 
Cosette gently slipped a pillow under his loins . 
Jean Valjean resumed Have no fear , Monsieur Pontmercy , I adjure you . 
The six hundred thousand francs really belong to Cosette . 
My life will have been wasted if you do not enjoy them ! We managed to do very well with those glass goods . 
We rivalled what is called Berlin jewellery . 
However , we could not equal the black glass of England . 
A gross , which contains twelve hundred very well cut grains , only costs three francs . 
Cosette gave her hand to Marius , and both , mute with anguish , not knowing what to say to the dying man , stood trembling and despairing before him . 
Jean Valjean sank moment by moment . 
He was failing he was drawing near to the gloomy horizon . 
His breath had become intermittent a little rattling interrupted it . 
The light of the unknown world was already visible in his eyes . 
His face paled and smiled . 
Life was no longer there , it was something else . 
His breath sank , his glance grew grander . 
He was a corpse on which the wings could be felt . 
He made a sign to Cosette to draw near , then to Marius the last minute of the last hour had , evidently , arrived . 
Draw near , draw near , both of you . 
Oh ! how good it is to die like this ! And thou lovest me also , my Cosette . 
I knew well that thou still felt friendly towards thy poor old man . 
How kind it was of thee to place that pillow under my loins ! Thou wilt weep for me a little , wilt thou not ? Not too much . 
I do not wish thee to have any real griefs . 
You must enjoy yourselves a great deal , my children . 
I forgot to tell you that the profit was greater still on the buckles without tongues than on all the rest . 
A gross of a dozen dozens cost ten francs and sold for sixty . 
It really was a good business . 
So there is no occasion for surprise at the six hundred thousand francs , Monsieur Pontmercy . 
You may be rich with a tranquil mind . 
I was writing to Cosette a while ago . 
She will find my letter . 
I bequeath to her the two candlesticks which stand on the chimney piece . 
They are of silver , but to me they are gold , they are diamonds they change candles which are placed in them into wax tapers . 
I do not know whether the person who gave them to me is pleased with me yonder on high . 
I have done what I could . 
No name on the stone . 
If Cosette cares to come for a little while now and then , it will give me pleasure . 
And you too , Monsieur Pontmercy . 
I must admit that I have not always loved you . 
I ask your pardon for that . 
Now she and you form but one for me . 
I feel very grateful to you . 
I am sure that you make Cosette happy . 
If you only knew , Monsieur Pontmercy , her pretty rosy cheeks were my delight when I saw her in the least pale , I was sad . 
In the chest of drawers , there is a bank bill for five hundred francs . 
I have not touched it . 
It is for the poor . 
Cosette , dost thou see thy little gown yonder on the bed ? dost thou recognize it ? That was ten years ago , however . 
How time flies ! We have been very happy . 
It was so cold ! Ah ! your hands were red then , mademoiselle , they are very white now . 
And the big doll ! dost thou remember ? Thou didst call her Catherine . 
One day I gave thee a willow battledore and a shuttlecock with yellow , blue and green feathers . 
Thou wert roguish so young ! Thou didst play . 
Thou didst put cherries in thy ears . 
Those are things of the past . 
I imagined that all that belonged to me . 
In that lay my stupidity . 
Cosette , the moment has come to tell thee the name of thy mother . 
Kneel whenever thou utterest it . 
She had as much unhappiness as thou hast had happiness . 
That is the way God apportions things . 
He is there on high , he sees us all , and he knows what he does in the midst of his great stars . 
I am on the verge of departure , my children . 
Love each other well and always . 
There is nothing else but that in the world love for each other . 
You will think sometimes of the poor old man who died here . 
I no longer see clearly , my children , I had still other things to say , but never mind . 
Think a little of me . 
Give me your dear and well beloved heads , so that I may lay my hands upon them . 
Cosette and Marius fell on their knees , in despair , suffocating with tears , each beneath one of Jean Valjean's hands . 
Those august hands no longer moved . 
He had fallen backwards , the light of the candles illuminated him . 
His white face looked up to heaven , he allowed Cosette and Marius to cover his hands with kisses . 
The night was starless and extremely dark . 
No doubt , in the gloom , some immense angel stood erect with wings outspread , awaiting that soul . 
That stone is no more exempt than others from the leprosy of time , of dampness , of the lichens and from the defilement of the birds . 
The water turns it green , the air blackens it . 
It is not near any path , and people are not fond of walking in that direction , because the grass is high and their feet are immediately wet . 
When there is a little sunshine , the lizards come thither . 
All around there is a quivering of weeds . 
In the spring , linnets warble in the trees . 
This stone is perfectly plain . 
In cutting it the only thought was the requirements of the tomb , and no other care was taken than to make the stone long enough and narrow enough to cover a man . 
No name is to be read there . 
Quoique le sort fut pour lui bien etrange , Il vivait . 
Il mourut quand il n'eut plus son ange . 
La chose simplement d'elle meme arriva , Comme la nuit se fait lorsque le jour s'en va . 
Although his fate was very strange , he lived . 
He died when he had no longer his angel . 
The thing came to pass simply , of itself , as the night comes when day is gone . 
LETTER TO M. DAELLI Publisher of the Italian translation of Les Miserables in Milan . 
HAUTEVILLE HOUSE , October , . 
You are right , sir , when you tell me that Les Miserables is written for all nations . 
I do not know whether it will be read by all , but I wrote it for all . 
The sores of the human race , those great sores which cover the globe , do not halt at the red or blue lines traced upon the map . 
Your Italy is no more exempt from the evil than is our France . 
Your admirable Italy has all miseries on the face of it . 
Does not banditism , that raging form of pauperism , inhabit your mountains ? Few nations are more deeply eaten by that ulcer of convents which I have endeavored to fathom . 
You are covered with marvels and vermin . 
Assuredly , the sun of Italy is splendid , but , alas , azure in the sky does not prevent rags on man . 
Like us , you have prejudices , superstitions , tyrannies , fanaticisms , blind laws lending assistance to ignorant customs . 
You taste nothing of the present nor of the future without a flavor of the past being mingled with it . 
You have a barbarian , the monk , and a savage , the lazzarone . 
The social question is the same for you as for us . 
To explain the Bible badly amounts to the same thing as to understand the Gospel badly . 
Is it necessary to emphasize this ? Must this melancholy parallelism be yet more completely verified ? Have you not indigent persons ? Glance below . 
Have you not parasites ? Glance up . 
It is by the amount of protection with which these two feeble creatures are surrounded that the degree of civilization is to be measured . 
And then , let us scrutinize your state reasons . 
Have you a government which comprehends the identity of morality and politics ? You have reached the point where you grant amnesty to heroes ! Something very similar has been done in France . 
Stay , let us pass miseries in review , let each one contribute his pile , you are as rich as we . 
From the depths of the gloom wherein you dwell , you do not see much more distinctly than we the radiant and distant portals of Eden . 
Only , the priests are mistaken . 
These holy portals are before and not behind us . 
This book , Les Miserables , is no less your mirror than ours . 
Certain men , certain castes , rise in revolt against this book , I understand that . 
Mirrors , those revealers of the truth , are hated that does not prevent them from being of use . 
As for myself , I have written for all , with a profound love for my own country , but without being engrossed by France more than by any other nation . 
In proportion as I advance in life , I grow more simple , and I become more and more patriotic for humanity . 
If I have insisted so strongly , it is because of one phrase in your letter . 
You write There are Italians , and they are numerous , who say This book , Les Miserables , is a French book . 
It does not concern us . 
Let the French read it as a history , we read it as a romance . 
Alas ! I repeat , whether we be Italians or Frenchmen , misery concerns us all . 
If this letter seems to you of service in enlightening some minds and in dissipating some prejudices , you are at liberty to publish it , sir . 
Accept , I pray you , a renewed assurance of my very distinguished sentiments . 
