The Life and Adventures of Santa Claus by L. Frank Baum Contents YOUTH . 
The Child of the Forest . 
Claus Leaves the Forest MANHOOD . 
How Claus Made the First Toy . 
How the Ryls Colored the Toys . 
How Little Mayrie Became Frightened . 
How Bessie Blithesome Came to the Laughing Valley . 
The Wickedness of the Awgwas . 
The Great Battle Between Good and Evil . 
The First Journey with the Reindeer . 
How the First Stockings Were Hung by the Chimneys . 
The First Christmas Tree OLD AGE . 
When the World Grew Old . 
The Deputies of Santa Claus YOUTH . 
Burzee Have you heard of the great Forest of Burzee ? Nurse used to sing of it when I was a child . 
The Forest of Burzee is mighty and grand and awesome to those who steal beneath its shade . 
Coming from the sunlit meadows into its mazes it seems at first gloomy , then pleasant , and afterward filled with never ending delights . 
Yet Burzee has its inhabitants for all this . 
Nature peopled it in the beginning with Fairies , Knooks , Ryls and Nymphs . 
As long as the Forest stands it will be a home , a refuge and a playground to these sweet immortals , who revel undisturbed in its depths . 
Civilization has never yet reached Burzee . 
Will it ever , I wonder ? . 
The Child of the Forest Once , so long ago our great grandfathers could scarcely have heard it mentioned , there lived within the great Forest of Burzee a wood nymph named Necile . 
She was closely related to the mighty Queen Zurline , and her home was beneath the shade of a widespreading oak . 
So you see she was a nymph of some importance , and , moreover , it is said she was highly regarded because of her beauty and grace . 
When she was created she could not have told Queen Zurline could not have told the great Ak himself could not have told . 
It was long ago when the world was new and nymphs were needed to guard the forests and to minister to the wants of the young trees . 
Then , on some day not remembered , Necile sprang into being radiant , lovely , straight and slim as the sapling she was created to guard . 
For costume she adopted oak leaf green all the wood nymphs dress in that color and know no other so desirable . 
Her dainty feet were sandal clad , while her head remained bare of covering other than her silken tresses . 
Necile's duties were few and simple . 
She kept hurtful weeds from growing beneath her trees and sapping the earth food required by her charges . 
She frightened away the Gadgols , who took evil delight in flying against the tree trunks and wounding them so that they drooped and died from the poisonous contact . 
In dry seasons she carried water from the brooks and pools and moistened the roots of her thirsty dependents . 
That was in the beginning . 
So Necile's duties were lessened , and time grew laggard , while succeeding years became more tiresome and uneventful than the nymph's joyous spirit loved . 
Truly the forest dwellers did not lack amusement . 
Each full moon they danced in the Royal Circle of the Queen . 
There were also the Feast of Nuts , the Jubilee of Autumn Tintings , the solemn ceremony of Leaf Shedding and the revelry of Budding Day . 
But these periods of enjoyment were far apart , and left many weary hours between . 
That a wood nymph should grow discontented was not thought of by Necile's sisters . 
It came upon her only after many years of brooding . 
The Law of the Forest alone restrained her from going forth in search of adventure . 
Ak is the Master Woodsman of the world he sees everything , and knows more than the sons of men . 
They are not of our race , it is true , yet compassion well befits beings so fairly favored as ourselves . 
Often as I pass by the dwelling of some suffering mortal I am tempted to stop and banish the poor thing's misery . 
Yet suffering , in moderation , is the natural lot of mortals , and it is not our place to interfere with the laws of Nature . 
Nevertheless , said the fair Queen , nodding her golden head at the Master Woodsman , it would not be a vain guess that Ak has often assisted these hapless mortals . 
Sometimes , he replied , when they are very young 'children , the mortals call them I have stopped to rescue them from misery . 
The men and women I dare not interfere with they must bear the burdens Nature has imposed upon them . 
But the helpless infants , the innocent children of men , have a right to be happy until they become full grown and able to bear the trials of humanity . 
So I feel I am justified in assisting them . 
Not long ago a year , maybe I found four poor children huddled in a wooden hut , slowly freezing to death . 
Their parents had gone to a neighboring village for food , and had left a fire to warm their little ones while they were absent . 
But a storm arose and drifted the snow in their path , so they were long on the road . 
Meantime the fire went out and the frost crept into the bones of the waiting children . 
Poor things ! murmured the Queen softly . 
Then they ceased shivering and fell asleep until their parents came . 
I looked about me and found , close to the forest , a helpless babe , lying quite naked upon the grasses and wailing piteously . 
Not far away , screened by the forest , crouched Shiegra , the lioness , intent upon devouring the infant for her evening meal . 
And what did you do , Ak ? asked the Queen , breathlessly . 
Not much , being in a hurry to greet my nymphs . 
But I commanded Shiegra to lie close to the babe , and to give it her milk to quiet its hunger . 
And I told her to send word throughout the forest , to all beasts and reptiles , that the child should not be harmed . 
Swiftly her lithe form darted through the forest paths until she reached the edge of mighty Burzee , when she paused to gaze curiously about her . 
Never until now had she ventured so far , for the Law of the Forest had placed the nymphs in its inmost depths . 
Necile knew she was breaking the Law , but the thought did not give pause to her dainty feet . 
She had decided to see with her own eyes this infant Ak had told of , for she had never yet beheld a child of man . 
All the immortals are full grown there are no children among them . 
Peering through the trees Necile saw the child lying on the grass . 
But now it was sweetly sleeping , having been comforted by the milk drawn from Shiegra . 
It was not old enough to know what peril means if it did not feel hunger it was content . 
Softly the nymph stole to the side of the babe and knelt upon the sward , her long robe of rose leaf color spreading about her like a gossamer cloud . 
Her lovely countenance expressed curiosity and surprise , but , most of all , a tender , womanly pity . 
The babe was newborn , chubby and pink . 
While the nymph gazed the infant opened its eyes , smiled upon her , and stretched out two dimpled arms . 
In another instant Necile had caught it to her breast and was hurrying with it through the forest paths . 
The Adoption The Master Woodsman suddenly rose , with knitted brows . 
There is a strange presence in the Forest , he declared . 
Then the Queen and her nymphs turned and saw standing before them Necile , with the sleeping infant clasped tightly in her arms and a defiant look in her deep blue eyes . 
Then the great Ak , to the wonder of all , laid his hand softly on Necile's flowing locks and kissed her on her fair forehead . 
For the first time within my knowledge , said he , gently , a nymph has defied me and my laws yet in my heart can I find no word of chiding . 
What is your desire , Necile ? Let me keep the child ! she answered , beginning to tremble and falling on her knees in supplication . 
Here , in the Forest of Burzee , where the human race has never yet penetrated ? questioned Ak . 
Here , in the Forest of Burzee , replied the nymph , boldly . 
It is my home , and I am weary for lack of occupation . 
Let me care for the babe ! See how weak and helpless it is . 
Surely it can not harm Burzee nor the Master Woodsman of the World ! But the Law , child , the Law ! cried Ak , sternly . 
You are fairly trapped , O Ak ! she exclaimed , laughing . 
Now , I pray you , give heed to Necile's petition . 
The Woodsman , as was his habit when in thought , stroked his grizzled beard slowly . 
Then he said She shall keep the babe , and I will give it my protection . 
But I warn you all that as this is the first time I have relaxed the Law , so shall it be the last time . 
Never more , to the end of the World , shall a mortal be adopted by an immortal . 
Otherwise would we abandon our happy existence for one of trouble and anxiety . 
Good night , my nymphs ! Then Ak was gone from their midst , and Necile hurried away to her bower to rejoice over her new found treasure . 
Claus Another day found Necile's bower the most popular place in the Forest . 
The nymphs clustered around her and the child that lay asleep in her lap , with expressions of curiosity and delight . 
Nor were they wanting in praises for the great Ak's kindness in allowing Necile to keep the babe and to care for it . 
Even the Queen came to peer into the innocent childish face and to hold a helpless , chubby fist in her own fair hand . 
What shall we call him , Necile ? she asked , smiling . 
He must have a name , you know . 
Let him be called Claus , answered Necile , for that means 'a little one . 
Rather let him be called Neclaus , returned the Queen , for that will mean 'Necile's little one . 
Necile gathered the softest moss in all the forest for Claus to lie upon , and she made his bed in her own bower . 
Of food the infant had no lack . 
The nymphs searched the forest for bell udders , which grow upon the goa tree and when opened are found to be filled with sweet milk . 
So the little one flourished and grew big and sturdy day by day , while Necile taught him to speak and to walk and to play . 
His thoughts and words were sweet and gentle , for the nymphs knew no evil and their hearts were pure and loving . 
He became the pet of the forest , for Ak's decree had forbidden beast or reptile to molest him , and he walked fearlessly wherever his will guided him . 
Presently the news reached the other immortals that the nymphs of Burzee had adopted a human infant , and that the act had been sanctioned by the great Ak . 
Therefore many of them came to visit the little stranger , looking upon him with much interest . 
First the Ryls , who are first cousins to the wood nymphs , although so differently formed . 
For the Ryls are required to watch over the flowers and plants , as the nymphs watch over the forest trees . 
The Ryls are a busy people , for their flowers bloom and fade continually , but they are merry and light hearted and are very popular with the other immortals . 
Next came the Knooks , whose duty it is to watch over the beasts of the world , both gentle and wild . 
The Knooks have a hard time of it , since many of the beasts are ungovernable and rebel against restraint . 
But they know how to manage them , after all , and you will find that certain laws of the Knooks are obeyed by even the most ferocious animals . 
Then there were the Fairies , the guardians of mankind , who were much interested in the adoption of Claus because their own laws forbade them to become familiar with their human charges . 
Claus looked upon the immortals who thronged around him with fearless eyes and smiling lips . 
And the Ryls loved the sound of his laughter the Knooks loved his courage the Fairies loved his innocence . 
The boy made friends of them all , and learned to know their laws intimately . 
No forest flower was trampled beneath his feet , lest the friendly Ryls should be grieved . 
He never interfered with the beasts of the forest , lest his friends the Knooks should become angry . 
The Fairies he loved dearly , but , knowing nothing of mankind , he could not understand that he was the only one of his race admitted to friendly intercourse with them . 
Indeed , Claus came to consider that he alone , of all the forest people , had no like nor fellow . 
To him the forest was the world . 
He had no idea that millions of toiling , striving human creatures existed . 
And he was happy and content . 
Some people have spelled this name Nicklaus and others Nicolas , which is the reason that Santa Claus is still known in some lands as St . 
But , of course , Neclaus is his right name , and Claus the nickname given him by his adopted mother , the fair nymph Necile . 
The Master Woodsman Years pass swiftly in Burzee , for the nymphs have no need to regard time in any way . 
Even centuries make no change in the dainty creatures ever and ever they remain the same , immortal and unchanging . 
Claus , however , being mortal , grew to manhood day by day . 
Necile was disturbed , presently , to find him too big to lie in her lap , and he had a desire for other food than milk . 
He sought Necile's bower less frequently , till finally it became his custom to return thither only to sleep . 
The language of the beasts became clear to little Claus but he never could understand their sulky and morose tempers . 
He helped the Ryls to feed their plants and the Knooks to keep order among the animals . 
The little immortals regarded him as a privileged person , being especially protected by Queen Zurline and her nymphs and favored by the great Ak himself . 
One day the Master Woodsman came back to the forest of Burzee . 
He had visited , in turn , all his forests throughout the world , and they were many and broad . 
Not until he entered the glade where the Queen and her nymphs were assembled to greet him did Ak remember the child he had permitted Necile to adopt . 
Ak paused , silent and frowning , to bend his piercing gaze upon Claus . 
The clear eyes met his own steadfastly , and the Woodsman gave a sigh of relief as he marked their placid depths and read the youth's brave and innocent heart . 
The venture pleased Claus , who knew well the honor of being companion of the Master Woodsman of the world . 
But Necile wept for the first time in her life , and clung to the boy's neck as if she could not bear to let him go . 
Ak beheld the two clinging together , seemingly as brother and sister to one another , and again he wore his thoughtful look . 
Then the vast forest of Burzee seemed to fall away from their feet , and the youth found himself passing swiftly through the air at a great height . 
Ere long there were spires beneath them , while buildings of many shapes and colors met their downward view . 
It was a city of men , and Ak , pausing to descend , led Claus to its inclosure . 
Said the Master So long as you hold fast to my girdle you will remain unseen by all mankind , though seeing clearly yourself . 
To release your grasp will be to separate yourself forever from me and your home in Burzee . 
One of the first laws of the Forest is obedience , and Claus had no thought of disobeying the Master's wish . 
He clung fast to the girdle and remained invisible . 
Thereafter with each moment passed in the city the youth's wonder grew . 
He , who had supposed himself created differently from all others , now found the earth swarming with creatures of his own kind . 
Indeed , said Ak , the immortals are few but the mortals are many . 
Claus looked earnestly upon his fellows . 
There were sad faces , gay and reckless faces , pleasant faces , anxious faces and kindly faces , all mingled in puzzling disorder . 
Some worked at tedious tasks some strutted in impudent conceit some were thoughtful and grave while others seemed happy and content . 
Men of many natures were there , as everywhere , and Claus found much to please him and much to make him sad . 
But especially he noted the children first curiously , then eagerly , then lovingly . 
Ragged little ones rolled in the dust of the streets , playing with scraps and pebbles . 
Other children , gaily dressed , were propped upon cushions and fed with sugar plums . 
Yet the children of the rich were not happier than those playing with the dust and pebbles , it seemed to Claus . 
Childhood is the time of man's greatest content , said Ak , following the youth's thoughts . 
'Tis during these years of innocent pleasure that the little ones are most free from care . 
Tell me , said Claus , why do not all these babies fare alike ? Because they are born in both cottage and palace , returned the Master . 
The difference in the wealth of the parents determines the lot of the child . 
Some are carefully tended and clothed in silks and dainty linen others are neglected and covered with rags . 
Yet all seem equally fair and sweet , said Claus , thoughtfully . 
While they are babes yes agreed Ak . 
Their joy is in being alive , and they do not stop to think . 
Such things are unknown in the Forest where you were reared . 
Claus was silent a moment . 
Yet I am not of them , said Claus , musingly . 
You are not of them , returned the Woodsman . 
The nymph who cared for you as a mother seems now like a sister to you by and by , when you grow old and gray , she will seem like a daughter . 
Yet another brief span and you will be but a memory , while she remains Necile . 
Then why , if man must perish , is he born ? demanded the boy . 
Everything perishes except the world itself and its keepers , answered Ak . 
But while life lasts everything on earth has its use . 
The wise seek ways to be helpful to the world , for the helpful ones are sure to live again . 
Much of this Claus failed to understand fully , but a longing seized him to become helpful to his fellows , and he remained grave and thoughtful while they resumed their journey . 
And at last they returned to the grand old Forest of Burzee , where the Master set Claus down within the circle of nymphs , among whom the pretty Necile anxiously awaited him . 
The brow of the great Ak was now calm and peaceful but the brow of Claus had become lined with deep thought . 
I have been ignorant , said he , simply , until the great Ak in his kindness taught me who and what I am . 
You , who live so sweetly in your forest bowers , ever fair and youthful and innocent , are no fit comrades for a son of humanity . 
Yet every man has his mission , which is to leave the world better , in some way , than he found it . 
I am of the race of men , and man's lot is my lot . 
For your tender care of the poor , forsaken babe you adopted , as well as for your loving comradeship during my boyhood , my heart will ever overflow with gratitude . 
My foster mother , here he stopped and kissed Necile's white forehead , I shall love and cherish while life lasts . 
But I must leave you , to take my part in the endless struggle to which humanity is doomed , and to live my life in my own way . 
What will you do ? asked the Queen , gravely . 
I must devote myself to the care of the children of mankind , and try to make them happy , he answered . 
Since your own tender care of a babe brought to me happiness and strength , it is just and right that I devote my life to the pleasure of other babes . 
Have I spoken well , O Master ? You have spoken well , returned Ak , and rising to his feet he continued Yet one thing must not be forgotten . 
Having been adopted as the child of the Forest , and the playfellow of the nymphs , you have gained a distinction which forever separates you from your kind . 
In any need you may call upon the Nymphs , the Ryls , the Knooks and the Fairies , and they will serve you gladly . 
I , the Master Woodsman of the World , have said it , and my Word is the Law ! Claus looked upon Ak with grateful eyes . 
This will make me mighty among men , he replied . 
Protected by these kind friends I may be able to make thousands of little children happy . 
I will try very hard to do my duty , and I know the Forest people will give me their sympathy and help . 
We will ! said the Fairy Queen , earnestly . 
We will ! cried the merry Ryls , laughing . 
We will ! shouted the crooked Knooks , scowling . 
We will ! exclaimed the sweet nymphs , proudly . 
She only folded Claus in her arms and kissed him tenderly . 
The world is big , continued the boy , turning again to his loyal friends , but men are everywhere . 
I shall begin my work near my friends , so that if I meet with misfortune I can come to the Forest for counsel or help . 
With that he gave them all a loving look and turned away . 
There was no need to say good by , by for him the sweet , wild life of the Forest was over . 
He went forth bravely to meet his doom the doom of the race of man the necessity to worry and work . 
But Ak , who knew the boy's heart , was merciful and guided his steps . 
Coming through Burzee to its eastern edge Claus reached the Laughing Valley of Hohaho . 
On each side were rolling green hills , and a brook wandered midway between them to wind afar off beyond the valley . 
At his back was the grim Forest at the far end of the valley a broad plain . 
The eyes of the young man , which had until now reflected his grave thoughts , became brighter as he stood silent , looking out upon the Laughing Valley . 
Then on a sudden his eyes twinkled , as stars do on a still night , and grew merry and wide . 
Here , cried Claus , stretching out his arms as if to embrace the Valley , will I make my home ! That was many , many years ago . 
It has been his home ever since . 
It is his home now . 
The Laughing Valley When Claus came the Valley was empty save for the grass , the brook , the wildflowers , the bees and the butterflies . 
If he would make his home here and live after the fashion of men he must have a house . 
This puzzled him at first , but while he stood smiling in the sunshine he suddenly found beside him old Nelko , the servant of the Master Woodsman . 
Nelko bore an ax , strong and broad , with blade that gleamed like burnished silver . 
This he placed in the young man's hand , then disappeared without a word . 
Claus understood , and turning to the Forest's edge he selected a number of fallen tree trunks , which he began to clear of their dead branches . 
He would not cut into a living tree . 
His life among the nymphs who guarded the Forest had taught him that a live tree is sacred , being a created thing endowed with feeling . 
But with the dead and fallen trees it was different . 
They had fulfilled their destiny , as active members of the Forest community , and now it was fitting that their remains should minister to the needs of man . 
The ax bit deep into the logs at every stroke . 
It seemed to have a force of its own , and Claus had but to swing and guide it . 
And while he slumbered and breathed in the perfume of the wondrous Valley the Spirit of Happiness crept into his heart and drove out all terror and care and misgivings . 
Never more would the face of Claus be clouded with anxieties never more would the trials of life weigh him down as with a burden . 
The Laughing Valley had claimed him for its own . 
Would that we all might live in that delightful place ! but then , maybe , it would become overcrowded . 
For ages it had awaited a tenant . 
These people spoke no words , but worked with skill and swiftness . 
The birds came sweeping into the Valley at daybreak , and their songs , so seldom heard in the deep wood , aroused the stranger . 
He rubbed the web of sleep from his eyelids and looked around . 
The house met his gaze . 
I must thank the Knooks for this , said he , gratefully . 
Then he walked to his dwelling and entered at the doorway . 
A large room faced him , having a fireplace at the end and a table and bench in the middle . 
Beside the fireplace was a cupboard . 
Claus entered here , also , and saw a smaller room with a bed against the wall and a stool set near a small stand . 
On the bed were many layers of dried moss brought from the Forest . 
Indeed , it is a palace ! exclaimed the smiling Claus . 
I must thank the good Knooks again , for their knowledge of man's needs as well as for their labors in my behalf . 
He left his new home with a glad feeling that he was not quite alone in the world , although he had chosen to abandon his Forest life . 
Friendships are not easily broken , and the immortals are everywhere . 
And as they raced away he listened to the song they sang Rushing , pushing , on we go ! Not a wave may gently flow All are too excited . 
It made Claus laugh to hear the little things voice their happiness as they nodded gracefully on their stems . 
The Laughing Valley is a valley of peace and good will . 
He passed the day talking with the ants and beetles and exchanging jokes with the light hearted butterflies . 
And at night he lay on his bed of soft moss and slept soundly . 
Then came the Fairies , merry but noiseless , bringing skillets and pots and dishes and pans and all the tools necessary to prepare food and to comfort a mortal . 
With these they filled cupboard and fireplace , finally placing a stout suit of wool clothing on the stool by the bedside . 
When Claus awoke he rubbed his eyes again , and laughed , and spoke aloud his thanks to the Fairies and the Master Woodsman who had sent them . 
With eager joy he examined all his new possessions , wondering what some might be used for . 
Which means that I must plow the earth and plant corn , he reflected so that when winter comes I shall have garnered food in plenty . 
And this he could not bear to do . 
Claus gazed upon them earnestly . 
Your brothers of the Forest , he said , I have known and loved many years . 
I shall love you , also , when we have become friends . 
To me the laws of the Ryls , whether those of the Forest or of the field , are sacred . 
The great Ak has spoken to us of you . 
Live , therefore , to do the good work you are resolved to undertake . 
We , the Field Ryls , will attend to your food supplies . 
After this speech the Ryls were no longer to be seen , and Claus drove from his mind the thought of tilling the earth . 
When next he wandered back to his dwelling a bowl of fresh milk stood upon the table bread was in the cupboard and sweet honey filled a dish beside it . 
A pretty basket of rosy apples and new plucked grapes was also awaiting him . 
He called out Thanks , my friends ! to the invisible Ryls , and straightway began to eat of the food . 
Thereafter , when hungry , he had but to look into the cupboard to find goodly supplies brought by the kindly Ryls . 
And the Knooks cut and stacked much wood for his fireplace . 
And the Fairies brought him warm blankets and clothing . 
So began his life in the Laughing Valley , with the favor and friendship of the immortals to minister to his every want . 
How Claus Made the First Toy Truly our Claus had wisdom , for his good fortune but strengthened his resolve to befriend the little ones of his own race . 
He knew his plan was approved by the immortals , else they would not have favored him so greatly . 
So he began at once to make acquaintance with mankind . 
He walked through the Valley to the plain beyond , and crossed the plain in many directions to reach the abodes of men . 
These stood singly or in groups of dwellings called villages , and in nearly all the houses , whether big or little , Claus found children . 
And those who knew him were , you may be sure , very happy indeed . 
Only at the beautiful palace of the Lord of Lerd and at the frowning castle of the Baron Braun was Claus refused admittance . 
Whereupon Claus sighed and went back to the poorer dwellings where he was welcome . 
After a time the winter drew near . 
One day snowflakes filled all the air in the Laughing Valley , dancing boisterously toward the earth and clothing in pure white raiment the roof of Claus's dwelling . 
At night Jack Frost rapped at the door . 
Come in ! cried Claus . 
Come out ! answered Jack , for you have a fire inside . 
He had known Jack Frost in the Forest , and liked the jolly rogue , even while he mistrusted him . 
There will be rare sport for me to night , Claus ! shouted the sprite . 
Isn't this glorious weather ? I shall nip scores of noses and ears and toes before daybreak . 
If you love me , Jack , spare the children , begged Claus . 
And why ? asked the other , in surprise . 
They are tender and helpless , answered Claus . 
But I love to nip the tender ones ! declared Jack . 
The older ones are tough , and tire my fingers . 
The young ones are weak , and can not fight you , said Claus . 
True , agreed Jack , thoughtfully . 
Well , I will not pinch a child this night if I can resist the temptation , he promised . 
Good night , Claus ! Good night . 
The young man went in and closed the door , and Jack Frost ran on to the nearest village . 
Claus threw a log on the fire , which burned up brightly . 
Beside the hearth sat Blinkie , a big cat give him by Peter the Knook . 
Her fur was soft and glossy , and she purred never ending songs of contentment . 
I shall not see the children again soon , said Claus to the cat , who kindly paused in her song to listen . 
The winter is upon us , the snow will be deep for many days , and I shall be unable to play with my little friends . 
The cat raised a paw and stroked her nose thoughtfully , but made no reply . 
So long as the fire burned and Claus sat in his easy chair by the hearth she did not mind the weather . 
So passed many days and many long evenings . 
The cupboard was always full , but Claus became weary with having nothing to do more than to feed the fire from the big wood pile the Knooks had brought him . 
One evening he picked up a stick of wood and began to cut it with his sharp knife . 
He had no thought , at first , except to occupy his time , and he whistled and sang to the cat as he carved away portions of the stick . 
Puss sat up on her haunches and watched him , listening at the same time to her master's merry whistle , which she loved to hear even more than her own purring songs . 
Claus stopped whistling to laugh , and then both he and the cat looked at the wooden image in some surprise . 
Then he carved out the eyes and the nose , and rounded the lower part of the head so that it rested upon a neck . 
Puss hardly knew what to make of it now , and sat up stiffly , as if watching with some suspicion what would come next . 
The head gave him an idea . 
The work cost him much time , but the evening was long and he had nothing better to do . 
Finally he gave a loud and delighted laugh at the result of his labors and placed the wooden cat , now completed , upon the hearth opposite the real one . 
Puss thereupon glared at her image , raised her hair in anger , and uttered a defiant mew . 
The wooden cat paid no attention , and Claus , much amused , laughed again . 
Perhaps she felt the same satisfaction we feel when we look upon good photographs of ourselves . 
The cat's master was himself pleased with his handiwork , without knowing exactly why . 
Indeed , he had great cause to congratulate himself that night , and all the children throughout the world should have joined him rejoicing . 
For Claus had made his first toy . 
How the Ryls Colored the Toys A hush lay on the Laughing Valley now . 
Snow covered it like a white spread and pillows of downy flakes drifted before the dwelling where Claus sat feeding the blaze of the fire . 
The brook gurgled on beneath a heavy sheet of ice and all living plants and insects nestled close to Mother Earth to keep warm . 
Claus heard the wind whistling and shrieking in its play and thanked the good Knooks again for his comfortable shelter . 
Blinkie washed her face lazily and stared at the coals with a look of perfect content . 
The toy cat sat opposite the real one and gazed straight ahead , as toy cats should . 
Suddenly Claus heard a noise that sounded different from the voice of the wind . 
It was more like a wail of suffering and despair . 
He stood up and listened , but the wind , growing boisterous , shook the door and rattled the windows to distract his attention . 
He waited until the wind was tired and then , still listening , he heard once more the shrill cry of distress . 
Quickly he drew on his coat , pulled his cap over his eyes and opened the door . 
The wind dashed in and scattered the embers over the hearth , at the same time blowing Blinkie's fur so furiously that she crept under the table to escape . 
Then the door was closed and Claus was outside , peering anxiously into the darkness . 
The wind laughed and scolded and tried to push him over , but he stood firm . 
The helpless flakes stumbled against his eyes and dimmed his sight , but he rubbed them away and looked again . 
Snow was everywhere , white and glittering . 
It covered the earth and filled the air . 
The cry was not repeated . 
Claus turned to go back into the house , but the wind caught him unawares and he stumbled and fell across a snowdrift . 
His hand plunged into the drift and touched something that was not snow . 
This he seized and , pulling it gently toward him , found it to be a child . 
The next moment he had lifted it in his arms and carried it into the house . 
The wind followed him through the door , but Claus shut it out quickly . 
He laid the rescued child on the hearth , and brushing away the snow he discovered it to be Weekum , a little boy who lived in a house beyond the Valley . 
Claus wrapped a warm blanket around the little one and rubbed the frost from its limbs . 
Before long the child opened his eyes and , seeing where he was , smiled happily . 
Then Claus warmed milk and fed it to the boy slowly , while the cat looked on with sober curiosity . 
The wind , finding no more mischief to do , climbed the hill and swept on toward the north . 
This gave the weary snowflakes time to settle down to earth , and the Valley became still again . 
The boy , having slept well in the arms of his friend , opened his eyes and sat up . 
Then , as a child will , he looked around the room and saw all that it contained . 
Your cat is a nice cat , Claus , he said , at last . 
But puss objected and ran away . 
The other cat won't run , Claus , continued the boy . 
Let me hold that one . 
Claus placed the toy in his arms , and the boy held it lovingly and kissed the tip of its wooden ear . 
How did you get lost in the storm , Weekum ? asked Claus . 
I started to walk to my auntie's house and lost my way , answered Weekum . 
Were you frightened ? It was cold , said Weekum , and the snow got in my eyes , so I could not see . 
Then I kept on till I fell in the snow , without knowing where I was , and the wind blew the flakes over me and covered me up . 
Claus gently stroked his head , and the boy looked up at him and smiled . 
I'm all right now , said Weekum . 
Yes , replied Claus , happily . 
Now I will put you in my warm bed , and you must sleep until morning , when I will carry you back to your mother . 
May the cat sleep with me ? asked the boy . 
Yes , if you wish it to , answered Claus . 
It's a nice cat ! Weekum said , smiling , as Claus tucked the blankets around him and presently the little one fell asleep with the wooden toy in his arms . 
When morning came the sun claimed the Laughing Valley and flooded it with his rays so Claus prepared to take the lost child back to its mother . 
May I keep the cat , Claus ? asked Weekum . 
It's nicer than real cats . 
It doesn't run away , or scratch or bite . 
May I keep it ? Yes , indeed , answered Claus , pleased that the toy he had made could give pleasure to the child . 
So he carried a warm and happy heart back to his home in the Valley . 
So this was the beginning of his great work . 
The next cat was better made than the first . 
If it could be made the same color as the real cat , no one would know the difference , said the Yellow Ryl , thoughtfully . 
The little ones , maybe , would not know the difference , replied Claus , pleased with the idea . 
I will bring you some of the red that I color my roses and tulips with , cried the Red Ryl and then you can make the cat's lips and tongue red . 
I will bring some of the green that I color my grasses and leaves with , said the Green Ryl and then you can color the cat's eyes green . 
They will need a bit of yellow , also , remarked the Yellow Ryl I must fetch some of the yellow that I use to color my buttercups and goldenrods with . 
I see you have a blue ribbon around Blinkie's neck , added the Blue Ryl . 
So the Ryls disappeared , and by the time Claus had finished carving out the form of the cat they were all back with the paints and brushes . 
That is , to all appearances , added the Red Ryl . 
But Claus was delighted , and as soon as morning came he started out and tramped through the snow , across the Valley and the plain , until he came to a village . 
There , in a poor hut near the walls of the beautiful palace of the Lord of Lerd , a little girl lay upon a wretched cot , moaning with pain . 
The fever was quieted , the pain grew less , and she fell into a sweet and refreshing sleep . 
Claus laughed and whistled and sang all the way home . 
Never had he been so happy as on that day . 
When he entered his house he found Shiegra , the lioness , awaiting him . 
Since his babyhood Shiegra had loved Claus , and while he dwelt in the Forest she had often come to visit him at Necile's bower . 
Shiegra was getting old and her teeth were beginning to fall out , while the hairs that tipped her ears and tail had changed from tawny yellow to white . 
Claus found her lying on his hearth , and he put his arms around the neck of the lioness and hugged her lovingly . 
The cat had retired into a far corner . 
She did not care to associate with Shiegra . 
Claus told his old friend about the cats he had made , and how much pleasure they had given Weekum and the sick girl . 
Shiegra did not know much about children indeed , if she met a child she could scarcely be trusted not to devour it . 
But she was interested in Claus' new labors , and said These images seem to me very attractive . 
Yet I can not see why you should make cats , which are very unimportant animals . 
Suppose , now that I am here , you make the image of a lioness , the Queen of all beasts . 
Then , indeed , your children will be happy and safe at the same time ! Claus thought this was a good suggestion . 
So he got a piece of wood and sharpened his knife , while Shiegra crouched upon the hearth at his feet . 
When it was finished he said You have a terrible look , Shiegra . 
Then the image is like me , she answered for I am indeed terrible to all who are not my friends . 
Claus now carved out the body , with Shiegra's long tail trailing behind it . 
The image of the crouching lioness was very life like . 
It pleases me , said Shiegra , yawning and stretching her body gracefully . 
Now I will watch while you paint . 
He brought the paints the Ryls had given him from the cupboard and colored the image to resemble the real Shiegra . 
The lioness placed her big , padded paws upon the edge of the table and raised herself while she carefully examined the toy that was her likeness . 
You are indeed skillful ! she said , proudly . 
The children will like that better than cats , I'm sure . 
Then snarling at Blinkie , who arched her back in terror and whined fearfully , she walked away toward her forest home with stately strides . 
How Little Mayrie Became Frightened The winter was over now , and all the Laughing Valley was filled with joyous excitement . 
The sun was in remarkably good humor , and sent his rays dancing merrily throughout the Valley . 
Claus was eating his dinner one day when he heard a timid knock on his door . 
Come in ! he called . 
No one entered , but after a pause came another rapping . 
Claus jumped up and threw open the door . 
Before him stood a small girl holding a smaller brother fast by the hand . 
Is you Tlaus ? she asked , shyly . 
Indeed I am , my dear ! he answered , with a laugh , as he caught both children in his arms and kissed them . 
You are very welcome , and you have come just in time to share my dinner . 
He took them to the table and fed them with fresh milk and nut cakes . 
The little visitors nodded eagerly . 
Unfortunately , he continued , I have but one cat now ready , for I carried two to children in the town yesterday . 
And the one I have shall be given to your brother , Mayrie , because he is the smaller and the next one I make shall be for you . 
The boy's face was bright with smiles as he took the precious toy Claus held out to him but little Mayrie covered her face with her arm and began to sob grievously . 
I I I wants a t t tat now ! she wailed . 
Her disappointment made Claus feel miserable for a moment . 
Then he suddenly remembered Shiegra . 
Don't cry , darling ! he said , soothingly I have a toy much nicer than a cat , and you shall have that . 
He went to the cupboard and drew out the image of the lioness , which he placed on the table before Mayrie . 
The girl raised her arm and gave one glance at the fierce teeth and glaring eyes of the beast , and then , uttering a terrified scream , she rushed from the house . 
The boy followed her , also screaming lustily , and even dropping his precious cat in his fear . 
For a moment Claus stood motionless , being puzzled and astonished . 
Then he threw Shiegra's image into the cupboard and ran after the children , calling to them not to be frightened . 
Yet why were you frightened at seeing it ? he asked . 
But if you will return with me to the house I will soon make you a pretty cat . 
After his little visitors had trotted away on their journey homeward Claus sat long in deep thought . 
And he then decided that such fierce creatures as his friend the lioness would never do as models from which to fashion his toys . 
He began his work that very day , and before bedtime had made a wooden rabbit and a lamb . 
They were not quite so lifelike as the cats had been , because they were formed from memory , while Blinkie had sat very still for Claus to look at while he worked . 
But the new toys pleased the children nevertheless , and the fame of Claus' playthings quickly spread to every cottage on plain and in village . 
First came the children who had been playmates of Claus , before he began to make toys . 
These , you may be sure , were well supplied . 
Then children who lived farther away heard of the wonderful images and made journeys to the Valley to secure them . 
All little ones were welcome , and never a one went away empty handed . 
This demand for his handiwork kept Claus busily occupied , but he was quite happy in knowing the pleasure he gave to so many of the dear children . 
His friends the immortals were pleased with his success and supported him bravely . 
Claus soon turned his living room into a most wonderful workshop . 
He built a bench before the window , and arranged his tools and paints so that he could reach everything as he sat on his stool . 
It's because I live in the Laughing Valley , where everything else laughs ! said Claus . 
But that was not the reason . 
When they drew nearer he saw that the band consisted of a score of men at arms , clad in bright armor and bearing in their hands spears and battle axes . 
In front of these rode little Bessie Blithesome , the pretty daughter of that proud Lord of Lerd who had once driven Claus from his palace . 
Her palfrey was pure white , its bridle was covered with glittering gems , and its saddle draped with cloth of gold , richly broidered . 
The soldiers were sent to protect her from harm while she journeyed . 
Claus was surprised , but he continued to whittle and to sing until the cavalcade drew up before him . 
But he was puzzled how to answer her request . 
You are a rich lord's daughter , said he , and have all that you desire . 
Except toys , added Bessie . 
There are no toys in all the world but yours . 
And I make them for the poor children , who have nothing else to amuse them , continued Claus . 
Do poor children love to play with toys more than rich ones ? asked Bessie . 
I suppose not , said Claus , thoughtfully . 
Am I to blame because my father is a lord ? Must I be denied the pretty toys I long for because other children are poorer than I ? she inquired earnestly . 
I'm afraid you must , dear , he answered for the poor have nothing else with which to amuse themselves . 
You have your pony to ride , your servants to wait on you , and every comfort that money can procure . 
But I want toys ! cried Bessie , wiping away the tears that forced themselves into her eyes . 
If I can not have them , I shall be very unhappy . 
Claus was troubled , for her grief recalled to him the thought that his desire was to make all children happy , without regard to their condition in life . 
Listen , my child , said he , gently all the toys I am now making are promised to others . 
But the next shall be yours , since your heart so longs for it . 
Come to me again in two days and it shall be ready for you . 
Bessie gave a cry of delight , and leaning over her pony's neck she kissed Claus prettily upon his forehead . 
Then , calling to her men at arms , she rode gaily away , leaving Claus to resume his work . 
She greeted him tenderly and lovingly , listening with interest to his story of the visit of Bessie Blithesome . 
And now tell me , said he , shall I give toys to rich children ? We of the Forest know nothing of riches , she replied . 
But the Fairies are guardians of mankind , and know mortal children better than I. Let us call the Fairy Queen . 
Necile is right , declared the Queen for , whether it be rich or poor , a child's longings for pretty playthings are but natural . 
Rich Bessie's heart may suffer as much grief as poor Mayrie's she can be just as lonely and discontented , and just as gay and happy . 
I think , friend Claus , it is your duty to make all little ones glad , whether they chance to live in palaces or in cottages . 
Your words are wise , fair Queen , replied Claus , and my heart tells me they are as just as they are wise . 
Hereafter all children may claim my services . 
Then he bowed before the gracious Fairy and , kissing Necile's red lips , went back into his Valley . 
Gathering more of the clay from the bank he carried it to his house . 
Then , with the aid of his knife and a bit of wood he succeeded in working the clay into the image of a toy nymph . 
But the clay was soft , and Claus found he must handle it gently to avoid ruining his pretty work . 
Perhaps the rays of the sun will draw out the moisture and cause the clay to become hard , he thought . 
So he laid the image on a flat board and placed it in the glare of the sun . 
This done , he went to his bench and began painting the toy deer , and soon he became so interested in the work that he forgot all about the clay nymph . 
Claus now painted the nymph with great care in the likeness of Necile , giving it deep blue eyes , white teeth , rosy lips and ruddy brown hair . 
The gown he colored oak leaf green , and when the paint was dry Claus himself was charmed with the new toy . 
Of course it was not nearly so lovely as the real Necile but , considering the material of which it was made , Claus thought it was very beautiful . 
When Bessie , riding upon her white palfrey , came to his dwelling next day , Claus presented her with the new toy . 
What is it called , Claus ? she asked . 
Now Claus knew that Nymphs do not like to be spoken of by mortals , so he could not tell Bessie it was an image of Necile he had given her . 
But as it was a new toy he searched his mind for a new name to call it by , and the first word he thought of he decided would do very well . 
It is called a dolly , my dear , he said to Bessie . 
I shall call the dolly my baby , returned Bessie , kissing it fondly and I shall tend it and care for it just as Nurse cares for me . 
He brought more clay from the brook , and remembering that Bessie had called the dolly her baby he resolved to form this one into a baby's image . 
That was no difficult task to the clever workman , and soon the baby dolly was lying on the board and placed in the sun to dry . 
Then , with the clay that was left , he began to make an image of Bessie Blithesome herself . 
This was not so easy , for he found he could not make the silken robe of the lord's daughter out of the common clay . 
So he called the Fairies to his aid , and asked them to bring him colored silks with which to make a real dress for the clay image . 
The Fairies set off at once on their errand , and before nightfall they returned with a generous supply of silks and laces and golden threads . 
By morning , when he drew the dolly from the ashes , it had baked as hard as if it had lain a full day in the hot sun . 
Now our Claus became a dressmaker as well as a toymaker . 
He cut the lavender silk , and nearly sewed it into a beautiful gown that just fitted the new dolly . 
And he put a lace collar around its neck and pink silk shoes on its feet . 
It was really a beautiful thing to look upon , and sure to bring joy to some childish heart . 
While Claus was admiring it he heard a knock at his door , and little Mayrie entered . 
Her face was sad and her eyes red with continued weeping . 
Why , what has grieved you , my dear ? asked Claus , taking the child in his arms . 
I've I've bwoke my tat ! sobbed Mayrie . 
How ? he inquired , his eyes twinkling . 
I I dwopped him , an' bwoke off him's tail an' an' then I dwopped him an' bwoke off him's ear ! An' an' now him's all spoilt ! Claus laughed . 
Never mind , Mayrie dear , he said . 
How would you like this new dolly , instead of a cat ? Mayrie looked at the silk robed dolly and her eyes grew big with astonishment . 
Oh , Tlaus ! she cried , clapping her small hands together with rapture tan I have 'at boo'ful lady ? Do you like it ? he asked . 
I love it ! said she . 
It's better 'an tats ! Then take it , dear , and be careful not to break it . 
Mayrie took the dolly with a joy that was almost reverent , and her face dimpled with smiles as she started along the path toward home . 
I do not like to mention the Awgwas , but they are a part of this history , and can not be ignored . 
They were neither mortals nor immortals , but stood midway between those classes of beings . 
The Awgwas were invisible to ordinary people , but not to immortals . 
They could pass swiftly through the air from one part of the world to another , and had the power of influencing the minds of human beings to do their wicked will . 
They were of gigantic stature and had coarse , scowling countenances which showed plainly their hatred of all mankind . 
They possessed no consciences whatever and delighted only in evil deeds . 
Their homes were in rocky , mountainous places , from whence they sallied forth to accomplish their wicked purposes . 
The one of their number that could think of the most horrible deed for them to do was always elected the King Awgwa , and all the race obeyed his orders . 
Mortals were powerless to harm them and the immortals shuddered when the Awgwas were mentioned , and always avoided them . 
So they flourished for many years unopposed and accomplished much evil . 
One of the principal sports of the Awgwas was to inspire angry passions in the hearts of little children , so that they quarreled and fought with one another . 
I do not know what causes a child to be naughty in these days , but when the Awgwas were on earth naughty children were usually under their influence . 
Therefore , one year when the wicked tribe was to elect a new King , they chose an Awgwa who proposed to destroy Claus and take him away from the children . 
Why , Bessie Blithesome has not stamped her foot once this month , nor has Mayrie's brother slapped his sister's face or thrown the puppy into the rain barrel . 
Good ! good ! cried the big Awgwas , in a chorus , and they clapped their hands to applaud the speech of the King . 
But what shall we do with him ? asked one of the creatures . 
I have a plan , replied the wicked King and what his plan was you will soon discover . 
When morning came Claus found himself thousands of miles from any human being , a prisoner in the wild jungle of an unknown land . 
From the limb of a tree above his head swayed a huge python , one of those reptiles that are able to crush a man's bones in their coils . 
A few yards away crouched a savage panther , its glaring red eyes fixed full on the helpless Claus . 
One of those monstrous spotted spiders whose sting is death crept stealthily toward him over the matted leaves , which shriveled and turned black at its very touch . 
But Claus had been reared in Burzee , and was not afraid . 
Come to me , ye Knooks of the Forest ! he cried , and gave the low , peculiar whistle that the Knooks know . 
The panther , which was about to spring upon its victim , turned and slunk away . 
The python swung itself into the tree and disappeared among the leaves . 
The spider stopped short in its advance and hid beneath a rotting log . 
Claus had no time to notice them , for he was surrounded by a band of harsh featured Knooks , more crooked and deformed in appearance than any he had ever seen . 
Who are you that call on us ? demanded one , in a gruff voice . 
The friend of your brothers in Burzee , answered Claus . 
I have been brought here by my enemies , the Awgwas , and left to perish miserably . 
Yet now I implore your help to release me and to send me home again . 
Have you the sign ? asked another . 
They cut his bonds , and with his free arms he made the secret sign of the Knooks . 
Instantly they assisted him to stand upon his feet , and they brought him food and drink to strengthen him . 
Our brothers of Burzee make queer friends , grumbled an ancient Knook whose flowing beard was pure white . 
But he who knows our secret sign and signal is entitled to our help , whoever he may be . 
Close your eyes , stranger , and we will conduct you to your home . 
Where shall we seek it ? 'Tis in the Laughing Valley , answered Claus , shutting his eyes . 
There is but one Laughing Valley in the known world , so we can not go astray , remarked the Knook . 
As he spoke the sound of his voice seemed to die away , so Claus opened his eyes to see what caused the change . 
To his astonishment he found himself seated on the bench by his own door , with the Laughing Valley spread out before him . 
That day he visited the Wood Nymphs and related his adventure to Queen Zurline and Necile . 
The Awgwas have become your enemies , said the lovely Queen , thoughtfully so we must do all we can to protect you from their power . 
It was cowardly to bind him while he slept , remarked Necile , with indignation . 
The evil ones are ever cowardly , answered Zurline , but our friend's slumber shall not be disturbed again . 
The Queen herself came to the dwelling of Claus that evening and placed her Seal on every door and window , to keep out the Awgwas . 
And Claus carried his toys to the children again , and made many more of the little ones happy . 
You may guess how angry the King Awgwa and his fierce band were when it was known to them that Claus had escaped from the Forest of Ethop . 
They raged madly for a whole week , and then held another meeting among the rocks . 
It is useless to carry him where the Knooks reign , said the King , for he has their protection . 
So let us cast him into a cave of our own mountains , where he will surely perish . 
This was promptly agreed to , and the wicked band set out that night to seize Claus . 
But they found his dwelling guarded by the Seals of the Immortals and were obliged to go away baffled and disappointed . 
There they thrust him within a deep cavern and rolled many huge rocks against the entrance to prevent his escape . 
Deprived thus of light and food , and with little air to breathe , our Claus was , indeed , in a pitiful plight . 
And the children were no more disappointed than was Claus when he was obliged to return home disconsolate . 
Still he persevered , and made many toys for his little friends and started with them for the villages . 
And always the Awgwas robbed him as soon as he had left the Valley . 
They threw the stolen playthings into one of their lonely caverns , and quite a heap of toys accumulated before Claus became discouraged and gave up all attempts to leave the Valley . 
Lonely days now fell upon Claus , for he was denied the pleasure of bringing happiness to the children whom he had learned to love . 
Yet he bore up bravely , for he thought surely the time would come when the Awgwas would abandon their evil designs to injure him . 
He devoted all his hours to toy making , and when one plaything had been completed he stood it on a shelf he had built for that purpose . 
When the shelf became filled with rows of toys he made another one , and filled that also . 
Often , as he glanced at this array of childish treasures , the heart of good old Claus became sad , so greatly did he long to carry the toys to his children . 
The Great Battle Between Good and Evil Ak listened gravely to the recital of Claus , stroking his beard the while with the slow , graceful motion that betokened deep thought . 
He nodded approvingly when Claus told how the Knooks and Fairies had saved him from death , and frowned when he heard how the Awgwas had stolen the children's toys . 
We immortals have no connection whatever with the evil creatures who have attacked you . 
Always have we avoided them , and they , in turn , have hitherto taken care not to cross our pathway . 
But in this matter I find they have interfered with one of our friends , and I will ask them to abandon their persecutions , as you are under our protection . 
Claus thanked the Master Woodsman most gratefully and returned to his Valley , while Ak , who never delayed carrying out his promises , at once traveled to the mountains of the Awgwas . 
There , standing on the bare rocks , he called on the King and his people to appear . 
Here are no forests for you to claim , cried the King , angrily . 
We owe no allegiance to you , nor to any immortal ! That is true , replied Ak , calmly . 
Yet you have ventured to interfere with the actions of Claus , who dwells in the Laughing Valley , and is under our protection . 
Many of the Awgwas began muttering at this speech , and their King turned threateningly on the Master Woodsman . 
You are set to rule the forests , but the plains and the valleys are ours ! he shouted . 
Keep to your own dark woods ! We will do as we please with Claus . 
You shall not harm our friend in any way ! replied Ak . 
Shall we not ? asked the King , impudently . 
You will see ! Our powers are vastly superior to those of mortals , and fully as great as those of immortals . 
It is your conceit that misleads you ! said Ak , sternly . 
You are a transient race , passing from life into nothingness . 
We , who live forever , pity but despise you . 
Nor you , nor all the immortals can save him from our wrath . 
We defy your powers ! Begone , Master Woodsman of the World ! In the country of the Awgwas you have no place . 
It is war ! declared Ak , with flashing eyes . 
It is war ! returned the King , savagely . 
In three days your friend will be dead . 
The little folk listened to him quietly . 
What shall we do ? asked Ak . 
These creatures are of no benefit to the world , said the Prince of the Knooks we must destroy them . 
Their lives are devoted only to evil deeds , said the Prince of the Ryls . 
They have no conscience , and endeavor to make all mortals as bad as themselves , said the Queen of the Fairies . 
They have defied the great Ak , and threaten the life of our adopted son , said beautiful Queen Zurline . 
You speak well , said he . 
These Awgwas we know to be a powerful race , and they will fight desperately yet the outcome is certain . 
For we who live can never die , even though conquered by our enemies , while every Awgwa who is struck down is one foe the less to oppose us . 
The King Awgwa and his band determined to carry out the threat to destroy Claus . 
They now hated him for two reasons he made children happy and was a friend of the Master Woodsman . 
But since Ak's visit they had reason to fear the opposition of the immortals , and they dreaded defeat . 
So the King sent swift messengers to all parts of the world to summon every evil creature to his aid . 
And on the third day after the declaration of war a mighty army was at the command of the King Awgwa . 
There were three hundred Asiatic Dragons , breathing fire that consumed everything it touched . 
These hated mankind and all good spirits . 
And there were the three eyed Giants of Tatary , a host in themselves , who liked nothing better than to fight . 
And next came the Black Demons from Patalonia , with great spreading wings like those of a bat , which swept terror and misery through the world as they beat upon the air . 
And joined to these were the Goozzle Goblins , with long talons as sharp as swords , with which they clawed the flesh from their foes . 
Finally , every mountain Awgwa in the world had come to participate in the great battle with the immortals . 
But the Master Woodsman had not been idle . 
None of his people was used to warfare , yet now that they were called upon to face the hosts of evil they willingly prepared for the fray . 
Ak had commanded them to assemble in the Laughing Valley , where Claus , ignorant of the terrible battle that was to be waged on his account , was quietly making his toys . 
Soon the entire Valley , from hill to hill , was filled with the little immortals . 
The Master Woodsman stood first , bearing a gleaming ax that shone like burnished silver . 
Next came the Ryls , armed with sharp thorns from bramblebushes . 
Then the Knooks , bearing the spears they used when they were forced to prod their savage beasts into submission . 
Loud laughed the Awgwa King when he beheld the size and the arms of his foes . 
Then rushed the three eyed Giants of Tatary upon the Knooks , and the Goozzle Goblins upon the Ryls , and the firebreathing Dragons upon the sweet Fairies . 
Because the Nymphs were Ak's own people the band of Awgwas sought them out , thinking to overcome them with ease . 
But it is the Law that while Evil , unopposed , may accomplish terrible deeds , the powers of Good can never be overthrown when opposed to Evil . 
Greatly marveled the Tatary Giants when the spears of the little Knooks pierced their thick walls of flesh and sent them reeling to the ground with howls of agony . 
Woe came upon the sharp taloned Goblins when the thorns of the Ryls reached their savage hearts and let their life blood sprinkle all the plain . 
And afterward from every drop a thistle grew . 
The Dragons paused astonished before the Fairy wands , from whence rushed a power that caused their fiery breaths to flow back on themselves so that they shriveled away and died . 
The Goblins had perished every one , as had the terrible Dragons , while all that remained of the wicked Awgwas was a great number of earthen hillocks dotting the plain . 
You have many toys ready for the children , said the Woodsman , and now you may carry them across the plain to the dwellings and the villages without fear . 
Will not the Awgwas harm me ? asked Claus , eagerly . 
The Awgwas , said Ak , have perished ! Now I will gladly have done with wicked spirits and with fighting and bloodshed . 
It was not from choice that I told of the Awgwas and their allies , and of their great battle with the immortals . 
They were part of this history , and could not be avoided . 
The First Journey with the Reindeer Those were happy days for Claus when he carried his accumulation of toys to the children who had awaited them so long . 
Remembering the time when he had journeyed with Ak through all the world , he know children were everywhere , and he longed to make as many as possible happy with his gifts . 
Wherever he showed his merry face , in hamlet or in farmhouse , he received a cordial welcome , for his fame had spread into far lands . 
But every one smiled on him and gave him kindly words , and Claus felt amply repaid for his long journey . 
When the sack was empty he went back again to the Laughing Valley and once more filled it to the brim . 
After a third journey , so far away that Claus was many days walking the distance , the store of toys became exhausted and without delay he set about making a fresh supply . 
From seeing so many children and studying their tastes he had acquired several new ideas about toys . 
So Claus resolved to make many dolls , of all sizes , and to dress them in bright colored clothing . 
The older boys and even some of the girls loved the images of animals , so he still made cats and elephants and horses . 
And many of the little fellows had musical natures , and longed for drums and cymbals and whistles and horns . 
The Frost King was Jack's father and never reproved him for his pranks . 
So Claus remained at his work bench but he whistled and sang as merrily as ever , for he would allow no disappointment to sour his temper or make him unhappy . 
One bright morning he looked from his window and saw two of the deer he had known in the Forest walking toward his house . 
He had walked out of his house a day or two before and had sunk to his armpits in a drift . 
So when the deer came near he opened the door and called to them Good morning , Flossie ! Tell me how you are able to walk on the snow so easily . 
It is frozen hard , answered Flossie . 
The Frost King has breathed on it , said Glossie , coming up , and the surface is now as solid as ice . 
Perhaps , remarked Claus , thoughtfully , I might now carry my pack of toys to the children . 
Is it a long journey ? asked Flossie . 
Yes it will take me many days , for the pack is heavy , answered Claus . 
Then the snow would melt before you could get back , said the deer . 
You must wait until spring , Claus . 
Had I your fleet feet , said he , I could make the journey in a day . 
But you have not , returned Glossie , looking at his own slender legs with pride . 
Perhaps I could ride upon your back , Claus ventured to remark , after a pause . 
Oh no our backs are not strong enough to bear your weight , said Flossie , decidedly . 
But if you had a sledge , and could harness us to it , we might draw you easily , and your pack as well . 
I'll make a sledge ! exclaimed Claus . 
Then go at once ! cried Claus , eagerly . 
I am sure the friendly Knooks will give their consent , and by the time you are back I shall be ready to harness you to my sledge . 
Meantime the toy maker hurriedly began the construction of a sledge , using material from his wood pile . 
He made two long runners that turned upward at the front ends , and across these nailed short boards , to make a platform . 
It was soon completed , but was as rude in appearance as it is possible for a sledge to be . 
From these ran other cords to fasten the deer to the front of the sledge . 
That is not a very long time , said Flossie but we are swift and strong , and if we get started by this evening we can travel many miles during the night . 
Claus decided to make the attempt , so he hurried on his preparations as fast as possible . 
After a time he fastened the collars around the necks of his steeds and harnessed them to his rude sledge . 
Then he placed a stool on the little platform , to serve as a seat , and filled a sack with his prettiest toys . 
How do you intend to guide us ? asked Glossie . 
We have never been out of the Forest before , except to visit your house , so we shall not know the way . 
Claus thought about that for a moment . 
Then he brought more cords and fastened two of them to the spreading antlers of each deer , one on the right and the other on the left . 
Those will be my reins , said Claus , and when I pull them to the right or to the left you must go in that direction . 
If I do not pull the reins at all you may go straight ahead . 
All ready ! he shouted away we go ! The deer leaned forward , lifted their slender limbs , and the next moment away flew the sledge over the frozen snow . 
The swiftness of the motion surprised Claus , for in a few strides they were across the Valley and gliding over the broad plain beyond . 
The day had melted into evening by the time they started for , swiftly as Claus had worked , many hours had been consumed in making his preparations . 
But the moon shone brightly to light their way , and Claus soon decided it was just as pleasant to travel by night as by day . 
Away and away they sped , on and on over the hills and through the valleys and across the plains until they reached a village where Claus had never been before . 
Here he called on them to stop , and they immediately obeyed . 
What's the matter ? asked Flossie . 
The doors are locked , answered Claus , and I can not get in . 
Glossie looked around at the houses . 
The snow was quite deep in that village , and just before them was a roof only a few feet above the sledge . 
A broad chimney , which seemed to Glossie big enough to admit Claus , was at the peak of the roof . 
Why don't you climb down that chimney ? asked Glossie . 
That would be easy enough if I were on top of the roof , he answered . 
Then hold fast and we will take you there , said the deer , and they gave one bound to the roof and landed beside the big chimney . 
Good ! cried Claus , well pleased , and he slung the pack of toys over his shoulder and got into the chimney . 
Leaping lightly over the smoldering coals he found himself in a large sitting room , where a dim light was burning . 
From this room two doorways led into smaller chambers . 
In one a woman lay asleep , with a baby beside her in a crib . 
Claus laughed , but he did not laugh aloud for fear of waking the baby . 
Then he slipped a big doll from his pack and laid it in the crib . 
Here were two boys , fast asleep with their arms around each other's neck . 
Claus gazed at them lovingly a moment and then placed upon the bed a drum , two horns and a wooden elephant . 
He did not linger , now that his work in this house was done , but climbed the chimney again and seated himself on his sledge . 
Can you find another chimney ? he asked the reindeer . 
Easily enough , replied Glossie and Flossie . 
Don't be so long , this time , called Flossie , or we shall never get back to the Forest by daybreak . 
Claus made a trip down this chimney also and found five children sleeping in the house , all of whom were quickly supplied with toys . 
When he returned the deer sprang to the next roof , but on descending the chimney Claus found no children there at all . 
That was not often the case in this village , however , so he lost less time than you might suppose in visiting the dreary homes where there were no little ones . 
Onward , friends ! he called to the deer we must seek another village . 
Presently Flossie asked What is that gray streak in the sky ? It is the coming dawn of day , answered Claus , surprised to find that it was so late . 
Good gracious ! exclaimed Glossie then we shall not be home by daybreak , and the Knooks will punish us and never let us come again . 
It seemed to him they were plunging through space , but he was not at all afraid . 
The Knooks were severe masters , and must be obeyed at all hazards , and the gray streak in the sky was growing brighter every moment . 
Finally the sledge came to a sudden stop and Claus , who was taken unawares , tumbled from his seat into a snowdrift . 
The sledge had come to a stop in the Laughing Valley , only a few feet , he found , from his own door . 
In the East the day was breaking , and turning to the edge of Burzee he saw Glossie and Flossie just disappearing in the Forest . 
Santa Claus ! Claus thought that none of the children would ever know where the toys came from which they found by their bedsides when they wakened the following morning . 
The good Claus must have been here , my darlings for his are the only toys in all the world ! But how did he get in ? asked the children . 
A Saint , said one , with bowed head , has no need to unlock doors if it pleases him to enter our homes . 
And , afterward , when a child was naughty or disobedient , its mother would say You must pray to the good Santa Claus for forgiveness . 
He does not like naughty children , and , unless you repent , he will bring you no more pretty toys . 
But Santa Claus himself would not have approved this speech . 
He brought toys to the children because they were little and helpless , and because he loved them . 
He knew that the best of children were sometimes naughty , and that the naughty ones were often good . 
It is the way with children , the world over , and he would not have changed their natures had he possessed the power to do so . 
And that is how our Claus became Santa Claus . 
It is possible for any man , by good deeds , to enshrine himself as a Saint in the hearts of the people . 
Christmas Eve The day that broke as Claus returned from his night ride with Glossie and Flossie brought to him a new trouble . 
Yet it could not have been very long after daybreak , said Claus . 
It was one minute after , answered Will Knook , and that is as bad as one hour . 
I shall set the stinging gnats on Glossie and Flossie , and they will thus suffer terribly for their disobedience . 
Don't do that ! begged Claus . 
But Will Knook would listen to no excuses , and went away grumbling and growling in his ill natured way . 
For this reason Claus entered the Forest to consult Necile about rescuing the good deer from punishment . 
To his delight he found his old friend , the Master Woodsman , seated in the circle of Nymphs . 
Ak listened to the story of the night journey to the children and of the great assistance the deer had been to Claus by drawing his sledge over the frozen snow . 
I do not wish my friends to be punished if I can save them , said the toy maker , when he had finished the relation . 
They were only one minute late , and they ran swifter than a bird flies to get home before daybreak . 
Already he is called a Saint in some of the towns , and before long the name of Santa Claus will be lovingly known in every home that is blessed with children . 
Moreover , he is a son of our Forest , so we owe him our encouragement . 
The Prince did not reply , but tapped the curled point of his sandal with the tip of his spear , as if in thought . 
Then the Fairy Queen spoke to him in this way If you consent to Ak's request I will see that no harm comes to your deer while they are away from the Forest . 
Finally he turned to his servants and said Call Will Knook . 
When surly Will came and heard the demands of the immortals he protested loudly against granting them . 
Deer are deer , said he , and nothing but deer . 
Were they horses it would be right to harness them like horses . 
But no one harnesses deer because they are free , wild creatures , owing no service of any sort to mankind . 
It would degrade my deer to labor for Claus , who is only a man in spite of the friendship lavished on him by the immortals . 
You have heard , said the Prince to Ak . 
There is truth in what Will says . 
Call Glossie and Flossie , returned the Master . 
The deer were brought to the conference and Ak asked them if they objected to drawing the sledge for Claus . 
No , indeed ! replied Glossie we enjoyed the trip very much . 
And we tried to get home by daybreak , added Flossie , but were unfortunately a minute too late . 
A minute lost at daybreak doesn't matter , said Ak . 
You are forgiven for that delay . 
Provided it does not happen again , said the Prince of the Knooks , sternly . 
And will you permit them to make another journey with me ? asked Claus , eagerly . 
The Prince reflected while he gazed at Will , who was scowling , and at the Master Woodsman , who was smiling . 
He may select any number he pleases , up to ten , to draw his sledge , and those shall be known among us as Reindeer , to distinguish them from the others . 
And they shall bathe in the Pool of Nares , and eat the casa and grawle and marbon plants and shall be under the especial protection of the Fairy Queen . 
When is Christmas Eve ? Claus asked the Master . 
In about ten days , he replied . 
Then I can not use the deer this year , said Claus , thoughtfully , for I shall not have time enough to make my sackful of toys . 
The shrewd Prince foresaw that , responded Ak , and therefore named Christmas Eve as the day you might use the deer , knowing it would cause you to lose an entire year . 
If I only had the toys the Awgwas stole from me , said Claus , sadly , I could easily fill my sack for the children . 
Where are they ? asked the Master . 
I do not know , replied Claus , but the wicked Awgwas probably hid them in the mountains . 
Ak turned to the Fairy Queen . 
Can you find them ? he asked . 
I will try , she replied , brightly . 
But on this morning the Fairies who were searching in the mountains had a new thought . 
And at last they discovered the cave where the toys had been heaped up by the wicked Awgwas . 
We must go in another direction to night , he told them , where we shall find children I have never yet visited . 
The air was sharp and frosty and the starlight touched the snowflakes and made them glitter like countless diamonds . 
It is strange how much those mother owls know . 
Claus stopped at some of the scattered farmhouses and climbed down the chimneys to leave presents for the babies . 
Soon after he reached a village and worked merrily for an hour distributing playthings among the sleeping little ones . 
It was a merry , happy night . 
Swiftly the deer ran , and busily their driver worked to scatter his gifts among the sleeping children . 
But the sack was empty at last , and the sledge headed homeward and now again the race with daybreak began . 
It is true when Claus released his steeds from their harness the eastern sky was streaked with gray , but Glossie and Flossie were deep in the Forest before day fairly broke . 
God bless him ! It was his first Christmas Eve , and for hundreds of years since then he has nobly fulfilled his mission to bring happiness to the hearts of little children . 
For the Gnome King had children of his own , who , living in the hollows under the earth , in mines and caverns , needed something to amuse them . 
These will please Glossie and Flossie , said Claus , as he jingled the bells and listened to their merry sound . 
But I should have two strings of bells , one for each deer . 
Bring me another trumpet and a toy cat , replied the King , and you shall have a second string of bells like the first . 
It is a bargain ! cried Claus , and he went home again for the toys . 
The new sledge was carefully built , the Knooks bringing plenty of strong but thin boards to use in its construction . 
It was certainly a handsome sledge , and big and roomy . 
The deer admired the sledge , but gravely declared it was too big and heavy for them to draw . 
Then I must add two more deer to my team , declared Claus , after a moment's thought . 
The Knook Prince allowed you as many as ten . 
Why not use them all ? asked Flossie . 
Then we could speed like the lightning and leap to the highest roofs with ease . 
A team of ten reindeer ! cried Claus , delightedly . 
Please return to the Forest at once and select eight other deer as like yourselves as possible . 
Likewise it will be well for you to bathe in the Pool of Nares , which the lovely Queen Zurline declares will render you rarely beautiful . 
In the end he called upon Peter Knook for assistance , for Peter's heart is as kind as his body is crooked , and he is remarkably shrewd , as well . 
And Peter agreed to furnish strips of tough leather for the harness . 
When Claus received these strips of leather he sewed them neatly into a harness for the ten reindeer , and it proved strong and serviceable and lasted him for many years . 
The harness and sledge were prepared at odd times , for Claus devoted most of his days to the making of toys . 
These were now much better than the first ones had been , for the immortals often came to his house to watch him work and to offer suggestions . 
It was Necile's idea to make some of the dolls say papa and mama . 
A merry Ryl suggested that Claus make a donkey with a nodding head , which he did , and afterward found that it amused the little ones immensely . 
And so the toys grew in beauty and attractiveness every day , until they were the wonder of even the immortals . 
When another Christmas Eve drew near there was a monster load of beautiful gifts for the children ready to be loaded upon the big sledge . 
Claus filled three sacks to the brim , and tucked every corner of the sledge box full of toys besides . 
Then , at twilight , the ten reindeer appeared and Flossie introduced them all to Claus . 
They were all exceedingly beautiful , with slender limbs , spreading antlers , velvety dark eyes and smooth coats of fawn color spotted with white . 
Claus loved them at once , and has loved them ever since , for they are loyal friends and have rendered him priceless service . 
The new harness fitted them nicely and soon they were all fastened to the sledge by twos , with Glossie and Flossie in the lead . 
These wore the strings of sleigh bells , and were so delighted with the music they made that they kept prancing up and down to make the bells ring . 
Claus now seated himself in the sledge , drew a warm robe over his knees and his fur cap over his ears , and cracked his long whip as a signal to start . 
They were not scolded , for Margot's mother knew the snow was melting , but they were sent early to bed that their clothes might be hung over chairs to dry . 
That was the reason Santa Claus noticed them when he came down the chimney that night and all the household were fast asleep . 
I wish they would all hang up their stockings , he thought , as he drove to the next chimney . 
It would save me a lot of time and I could then visit more children before daybreak . 
Of course they told all their little friends about it , and of course every one of them decided to hang his own stockings by the fireplace the next Christmas Eve . 
The custom grew year after year , and has always been a great help to Santa Claus . 
And , with so many children to visit , he surely needs all the help we are able to give him . 
He loved his work and he loved the brisk night ride on his sledge and the gay tinkle of the sleigh bells . 
The children's stockings were so long that it required a great many toys to fill them , and soon Claus found there were other things besides toys that children love . 
And the children who lived in the warm countries learned to know the name of Santa Claus as well as those who lived nearer to the Laughing Valley . 
These poor babies were miserable and unhappy , for their parents were ignorant people who neglected them sadly . 
It was nearly morning when the deer stopped before the lonely tent of skins where the poor children lay asleep . 
Claus at once planted the bit of pine tree in the sand and stuck many candles on the branches . 
Then he hung some of his prettiest toys on the tree , as well as several bags of candies . 
My father did not know your goodness and worth , he said , and therefore threatened to hang you from the castle walls . 
The Baron went away contented , and Claus kept his promise faithfully . 
We have followed the life of Claus from the time he was found a helpless infant by the Wood Nymph Necile and reared to manhood in the great Forest of Burzee . 
For many years he carried on this noble work for the simple , hard working life he led gave him perfect health and strength . 
And doubtless a man can live longer in the beautiful Laughing Valley , where there are no cares and everything is peaceful and merry , than in any other part of the world . 
But when many years had rolled away Santa Claus grew old . 
The long beard of golden brown that once covered his cheeks and chin gradually became gray , and finally turned to pure white . 
His hair was white , too , and there were wrinkles at the corners of his eyes , which showed plainly when he laughed . 
He had never been a very tall man , and now he became fat , and waddled very much like a duck when he walked . 
No doubt the old man's strength was at last exhausted , for he made no more toys , but lay on his bed as in a dream . 
In this is shown the difference between mortals and immortals . 
It was fortunate that the great Ak came to the Forest at this time . 
Necile sought him with troubled eyes and told him of the fate that threatened their friend Claus . 
At once the Master became grave , and he leaned upon his ax and stroked his grizzled beard thoughtfully for many minutes . 
Then suddenly he stood up straight , and poised his powerful head with firm resolve , and stretched out his great right arm as if determined on doing some mighty deed . 
Now he summoned his fleetest messengers , and sent them in a flash to many parts of the earth . 
And when they were gone he turned to the anxious Necile and comforted her , saying Be of good heart , my child our friend still lives . 
And now run to your Queen and tell her that I have summoned a council of all the immortals of the world to meet with me here in Burzee this night . 
If they obey , and harken unto my words , Claus will drive his reindeer for countless ages yet to come . 
There was the Queen of the Water Sprites , whose beautiful form was as clear as crystal but continually dripped water on the bank of moss where she sat . 
At his right hand stood the King of the Sound Imps , who had wings on his feet , for his people are swift to carry all sounds that are made . 
The next in the circle of immortals was the King of the Wind Demons , slender of frame , restless and uneasy at being confined to one place for even an hour . 
But she did not complain , for it was not often that the King of the Wind Demons came into the heart of the Forest . 
He never went anywhere without his Princes , for they were so mischievous that he dared not let them wander alone . 
Sweet Queen Zurline of the Wood Nymphs completed the circle of immortals . 
But in the center of the circle sat three others who possessed powers so great that all the Kings and Queens showed them reverence . 
And all other immortals are more or less subject to these three . 
When all had assembled the Master Woodsman of the World stood up to address them , since he himself had summoned them to the council . 
And now , said Ak , when he had won the love of all the world , the Spirit of Death is hovering over him . 
We immortals are the servants of the world , and to serve the world we were permitted in the Beginning to exist . 
That this demand was wholly unexpected was proved by the immortals springing to their feet and looking into each other's face with dismay and then upon Ak with wonder . 
For it was a grave matter , this parting with the Mantle of Immortality . 
The Queen of the Water Sprites spoke in her low , clear voice , and the words sounded like raindrops splashing upon a window pane . 
In all the world there is but one Mantle of Immortality , she said . 
The King of the Sound Fays added It has existed since the Beginning , and no mortal has ever dared to claim it . 
And the Master Mariner of the World arose and stretched his limbs , saying Only by the vote of every immortal can it be bestowed upon a mortal . 
I know all this , answered Ak , quietly . 
But the Mantle exists , and if it was created , as you say , in the Beginning , it was because the Supreme Master knew that some day it would be required . 
Of what use is the Mantle of Immortality unless it is worn ? demanded Ak . 
What will it profit any one of us to allow it to remain in its lonely shrine for all time to come ? Enough ! cried the Gnome King , abruptly . 
We will vote on the matter , yes or no . 
For my part , I say yes ! And I ! said the Fairy Queen , promptly , and Ak rewarded her with a smile . 
My people in Burzee tell me they have learned to love him therefore I vote to give Claus the Mantle , said the King of the Ryls . 
He is already a comrade of the Knooks , announced the ancient King of that band . 
Let him have immortality ! Let him have it let him have it ! sighed the King of the Wind Demons . 
Why not ? asked the King of the Sleep Fays . 
He never disturbs the slumbers my people allow humanity . 
Let the good Claus be immortal ! I do not object , said the King of the Sound Imps . 
Nor I , murmured the Queen of the Water Sprites . 
The Wood Nymphs were first to adopt him , said Queen Zurline . 
Of course I shall vote to make him immortal . 
They bowed assent , and instantly the Forest glade was deserted . 
But in a place midway between the earth and the sky was suspended a gleaming crypt of gold and platinum , aglow with soft lights shed from the facets of countless gems . 
The Spirit of Death was crouching very near to the bedside of Claus , and as the immortals approached she sprang up and motioned them back with an angry gesture . 
But when her eyes fell upon the Mantle they bore she shrank away with a low moan of disappointment and quitted that house forever . 
Softly and silently the immortal Band dropped upon Claus the precious Mantle , and it closed about him and sank into the outlines of his body and disappeared from view . 
It became a part of his being , and neither mortal nor immortal might ever take it from him . 
Then the Kings and Queens who had wrought this great deed dispersed to their various homes , and all were well contented that they had added another immortal to their Band . 
For she had stolen in when the others were gone to gaze with rapture upon the immortal form of her foster son . 
He sprang from his bed and stood where the bright sunshine came in through his window and flooded him with its merry , dancing rays . 
Then Ak came to him and told of the Mantle of Immortality and how Claus had won it through his love for little children . 
The world was new in the days when dear old Santa Claus first began toy making and won , by his loving deeds , the Mantle of Immortality . 
And the task of supplying cheering words , sympathy and pretty playthings to all the young of his race did not seem a difficult undertaking at all . 
So at length he took counsel with his fellow immortals how his work might keep pace with the increasing number of children that none might be neglected . 
And the immortals were so greatly interested in his labors that they gladly rendered him their assistance . 
Ak gave him his man Kilter , the silent and swift . 
And the Knook Prince gave him Peter , who was more crooked and less surly than any of his brothers . 
And the Ryl Prince gave him Nuter , the sweetest tempered Ryl ever known . 
And the Fairy Queen gave him Wisk , that tiny , mischievous but lovable Fairy who knows today almost as many children as does Santa Claus himself . 
You might think the Master Woodsman would rebel at the loss of his forests but not so . 
The wisdom of Ak was mighty and farseeing . 
The world was made for men , said he to Santa Claus , and I have but guarded the forests until men needed them for their use . 
I am glad my strong trees can furnish shelter for men's weak bodies , and warm them through the cold winters . 
But I hope they will not cut down all the trees , for mankind needs the shelter of the woods in summer as much as the warmth of blazing logs in winter . 
By and by people made ships from the tree trunks and crossed over oceans and built cities in far lands but the oceans made little difference to the journeys of Santa Claus . 
His reindeer sped over the waters as swiftly as over land , and his sledge headed from east to west and followed in the wake of the sun . 
So year after year , and generation after generation , and century after century , the world grew older and the people became more numerous and the labors of Santa Claus steadily increased . 
The fame of his good deeds spread to every household where children dwelt . 
But , fortunately , it was the last trial he was forced to undergo . 
One Christmas Eve , when his reindeer had leaped to the top of a new building , Santa Claus was surprised to find that the chimney had been built much smaller than usual . 
But he had no time to think about it just then , so he drew in his breath and made himself as small as possible and slid down the chimney . 
This is odd ! he reflected , much puzzled by this experience . 
If there is no fireplace , what on earth is the chimney good for ? Then he began to climb out again , and found it hard work the space being so small . 
And on his way up he noticed a thin , round pipe sticking through the side of the chimney , but could not guess what it was for . 
Finally he reached the roof and said to the reindeer There was no need of my going down that chimney , for I could find no fireplace through which to enter the house . 
I fear the children who live there must go without playthings this Christmas . 
Then he drove on , but soon came to another new house with a small chimney . 
This caused Santa Claus to shake his head doubtfully , but he tried the chimney , nevertheless , and found it exactly like the other . 
What in the world are people thinking of , to build such useless chimneys ? he exclaimed . 
In all the years I have traveled with my reindeer I have never seen the like before . 
True enough but Santa Claus had not then discovered that stoves had been invented and were fast coming into use . 
Perhaps the men who built those houses had outgrown their own love for toys , and were indifferent whether Santa Claus called on their children or not . 
Whatever the explanation might be , the poor children were forced to bear the burden of grief and disappointment . 
The following year Santa Claus found more and more of the new fashioned chimneys that had no fireplaces , and the next year still more . 
The matter had now become so serious that it worried the good man greatly , and he decided to talk it over with Kilter and Peter and Nuter and Wisk . 
But Kilter was a silent fellow , and seldom spoke of what he saw in the cities and villages . 
The others were very indignant . 
Those people act as if they do not wish their children to be made happy ! said sensible Peter , in a vexed tone . 
You are right , my master , said Nuter , the Ryl many children would lack a friend if you did not consider them , and try to make them happy . 
Then , declared the laughing Wisk , we must abandon any thought of using these new fashioned chimneys , but become burglars , and break into the houses some other way . 
What way ? asked Santa Claus . 
Why , walls of brick and wood and plaster are nothing to Fairies . 
I can easily pass through them whenever I wish , and so can Peter and Nuter and Kilter . 
That seems to me a good plan , replied Santa Claus , well pleased at having solved the problem . 
We will try it next year . 
So , to lighten his task , which was fast becoming very difficult indeed , old Santa decided to ask the parents to assist him . 
And to others he said See that the children's stockings are hung up in readiness for my coming , and then I can fill them as quick as a wink . 
I will make all loving parents my deputies ! cried the jolly old fellow , and they shall help me do my work . 
For in this way I shall save many precious minutes and few children need be neglected for lack of time to visit them . 
For the loving friend of the little ones decided that no child , if he could help it , should long for toys in vain . 
Perhaps you will now understand how , in spite of the bigness of the world , Santa Claus is able to supply all the children with beautiful gifts . 
To be sure , the old gentleman is rarely seen in these days but it is not because he tries to keep out of sight , I assure you . 
And , although there are millions and millions more children in the world than there used to be , Santa Claus has never been known to complain of their increasing numbers . 
