THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS by LEWIS CARROLL THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION . 
CHAPTER Looking Glass house One thing was certain , that the WHITE kitten had had nothing to do with it it was the black kitten's fault entirely . 
so you see that it COULDN'T have had any hand in the mischief . 
Oh , you wicked little thing ! cried Alice , catching up the kitten , and giving it a little kiss to make it understand that it was in disgrace . 
But she didn't get on very fast , as she was talking all the time , sometimes to the kitten , and sometimes to herself . 
Do you know what to morrow is , Kitty ? Alice began . 
You'd have guessed if you'd been up in the window with me only Dinah was making you tidy , so you couldn't . 
Never mind , Kitty , we'll go and see the bonfire to morrow . 
I'm going to tell you all your faults . 
Number one you squeaked twice while Dinah was washing your face this morning . 
Her paw went into your eye ? Well , that's YOUR fault , for keeping your eyes open if you'd shut them tight up , it wouldn't have happened . 
You know I'm saving up all your punishments for Wednesday week Suppose they had saved up all MY punishments ! she went on , talking more to herself than the kitten . 
What WOULD they do at the end of a year ? I should be sent to prison , I suppose , when the day came . 
And I do so WISH it was true ! I'm sure the woods look sleepy in the autumn , when the leaves are getting brown . 
Kitty , can you play chess ? Now , don't smile , my dear , I'm asking it seriously . 
Kitty , dear , let's pretend And here I wish I could tell you half the things Alice used to say , beginning with her favourite phrase Let's pretend . 
And once she had really frightened her old nurse by shouting suddenly in her ear , Nurse ! Do let's pretend that I'm a hungry hyaena , and you're a bone . 
But this is taking us away from Alice's speech to the kitten . 
Let's pretend that you're the Red Queen , Kitty ! Do you know , I think if you sat up and folded your arms , you'd look exactly like her . 
How would you like THAT ? Now , if you'll only attend , Kitty , and not talk so much , I'll tell you all my ideas about Looking glass House . 
First , there's the room you can see through the glass that's just the same as our drawing room , only the things go the other way . 
I can see all of it when I get upon a chair all but the bit behind the fireplace . 
Let's pretend the glass has got all soft like gauze , so that we can get through . 
And certainly the glass WAS beginning to melt away , just like a bright silvery mist . 
In another moment Alice was through the glass , and had jumped lightly down into the Looking glass room . 
had got the face of a little old man , and grinned at her . 
It is the voice of my child ! the White Queen cried out as she rushed past the King , so violently that she knocked him over among the cinders . 
My precious Lily ! My imperial kitten ! and she began scrambling wildly up the side of the fender . 
Imperial fiddlestick ! said the King , rubbing his nose , which had been hurt by the fall . 
He had a right to be a LITTLE annoyed with the Queen , for he was covered with ashes from head to foot . 
Blew me up , panted the Queen , who was still a little out of breath . 
I'd far better help you , hadn't I ? But the King took no notice of the question it was quite clear that he could neither hear her nor see her . 
Oh ! PLEASE don't make such faces , my dear ! she cried out , quite forgetting that the King couldn't hear her . 
Alice looked on with great interest as the King took an enormous memorandum book out of his pocket , and began writing . 
A sudden thought struck her , and she took hold of the end of the pencil , which came some way over his shoulder , and began writing for him . 
, she turned over the leaves , to find some part that she could read , for it's all in some language I don't know , she said to herself . 
YKCOWREBBAJ sevot yhtils eht dna , gillirb sawT ebaw eht ni elbmig dna eryg diD , sevogorob eht erew ysmim llA . 
ebargtuo shtar emom eht dnA She puzzled over this for some time , but at last a bright thought struck her . 
Why , it's a Looking glass book , of course ! And if I hold it up to a glass , the words will all go the right way again . 
This was the poem that Alice read . 
JABBERWOCKY 'Twas brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe All mimsy were the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe . 
And has thou slain the Jabberwock ? Come to my arms , my beamish boy ! O frabjous day ! Calloh ! Callay ! He chortled in his joy . 
'Twas brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe All mimsy were the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe . 
She was getting a little giddy with so much floating in the air , and was rather glad to find herself walking again in the natural way . 
, but I suppose it will at last . 
And so she did wandering up and down , and trying turn after turn , but always coming back to the house , do what she would . 
Indeed , once , when she turned a corner rather more quickly than usual , she ran against it before she could stop herself . 
It's no use talking about it , Alice said , looking up at the house and pretending it was arguing with her . 
I'm NOT going in again yet . 
, and the next moment she found herself actually walking in at the door . 
'Oh , it's too bad ! she cried . 
This time she came upon a large flower bed , with a border of daisies , and a willow tree growing in the middle . 
Alice was so astonished that she could not speak for a minute it quite seemed to take her breath away . 
At length , as the Tiger lily only went on waving about , she spoke again , in a timid voice almost in a whisper . 
And can ALL the flowers talk ? As well as YOU can , said the Tiger lily . 
And a great deal louder . 
I don't care about the colour , the Tiger lily remarked . 
If only her petals curled up a little more , she'd be all right . 
Alice didn't like being criticised , so she began asking questions . 
Silence , every one of you ! cried the Tiger lily , waving itself passionately from side to side , and trembling with excitement . 
That's right ! said the Tiger lily . 
The daisies are worst of all . 
I've been in many gardens before , but none of the flowers could talk . 
Put your hand down , and feel the ground , said the Tiger lily . 
It's very hard , she said , but I don't see what that has to do with it . 
In most gardens , the Tiger lily said , they make the beds too soft so that the flowers are always asleep . 
This sounded a very good reason , and Alice was quite pleased to know it . 
I never thought of that before ! she said . 
It's MY opinion that you never think AT ALL , the Rose said in a rather severe tone . 
I never saw anybody that looked stupider , a Violet said , so suddenly , that Alice quite jumped for it hadn't spoken before . 
Hold YOUR tongue ! cried the Tiger lily . 
There's one other flower in the garden that can move about like you , said the Rose . 
, but she's more bushy than you are . 
Her petals are done up close , almost like a dahlia , the Tiger lily interrupted not tumbled about anyhow , like yours . 
But that's not YOUR fault , the Rose added kindly you're beginning to fade , you know and then one can't help one's petals getting a little untidy . 
Alice didn't like this idea at all so , to change the subject , she asked Does she ever come out here ? I daresay you'll see her soon , said the Rose . 
She's one of the thorny kind . 
Where does she wear the thorns ? Alice asked with some curiosity . 
Why all round her head , of course , the Rose replied . 
I was wondering YOU hadn't got some too . 
I thought it was the regular rule . 
She's coming ! cried the Larkspur . 
I hear her footstep , thump , thump , thump , along the gravel walk ! Alice looked round eagerly , and found that it was the Red Queen . 
She's grown a good deal ! was her first remark . 
You can't possibly do that , said the Rose I should advise you to walk the other way . 
This sounded nonsense to Alice , so she said nothing , but set off at once towards the Red Queen . 
To her surprise , she lost sight of her in a moment , and found herself walking in at the front door again . 
, she thought she would try the plan , this time , of walking in the opposite direction . 
She had not been walking a minute before she found herself face to face with the Red Queen , and full in sight of the hill she had been so long aiming at . 
Where do you come from ? said the Red Queen . 
And where are you going ? Look up , speak nicely , and don't twiddle your fingers all the time . 
Alice attended to all these directions , and explained , as well as she could , that she had lost her way . 
Curtsey while you're thinking what to say , it saves time . 
Alice wondered a little at this , but she was too much in awe of the Queen to disbelieve it . 
I'll try it when I go home , she thought to herself . 
the next time I'm a little late for dinner . 
It's time for you to answer now , the Queen said , looking at her watch open your mouth a LITTLE wider when you speak , and always say your Majesty . 
No , I shouldn't , said Alice , surprised into contradicting her at last a hill CAN'T be a valley , you know . 
For some minutes Alice stood without speaking , looking out in all directions over the country and a most curious country it was . 
I declare it's marked out just like a large chessboard ! Alice said at last . 
It's a great huge game of chess that's being played all over the world if this IS the world at all , you know . 
She glanced rather shyly at the real Queen as she said this , but her companion only smiled pleasantly , and said , That's easily managed . 
I wonder if all the things move along with us ? thought poor puzzled Alice . 
And the Queen seemed to guess her thoughts , for she cried , Faster ! Don't try to talk ! Not that Alice had any idea of doing THAT . 
Are we nearly there ? Alice managed to pant out at last . 
Nearly there ! the Queen repeated . 
Now ! Now ! cried the Queen . 
The Queen propped her up against a tree , and said kindly , You may rest a little now . 
Alice looked round her in great surprise . 
A slow sort of country ! said the Queen . 
Now , HERE , you see , it takes all the running YOU can do , to keep in the same place . 
If you want to get somewhere else , you must run at least twice as fast as that ! I'd rather not try , please ! said Alice . 
Have a biscuit ? Alice thought it would not be civil to say No , though it wasn't at all what she wanted . 
So she took it , and ate it as well as she could and it was VERY dry and she thought she had never been so nearly choked in all her life . 
While you're refreshing yourself , said the Queen , I'll just take the measurements . 
And she took a ribbon out of her pocket , marked in inches , and began measuring the ground , and sticking little pegs in here and there . 
Alice did not know what to say to this , but luckily the Queen did not wait for an answer , but went on . 
At the end of THREE yards I shall repeat them for fear of your forgetting them . 
At then end of FOUR , I shall say good bye . 
At the two yard peg she faced round , and said , A pawn goes two squares in its first move , you know . 
So you'll go VERY quickly through the Third Square by railway , I should think and you'll find yourself in the Fourth Square in no time . 
How it happened , Alice never knew , but exactly as she came to the last peg , she was gone . 
CHAPTER III Looking Glass Insects Of course the first thing to do was to make a grand survey of the country she was going to travel through . 
It's something very like learning geography , thought Alice , as she stood on tiptoe in hopes of being able to see a little further . 
Principal rivers there ARE none . 
Principal mountains I'm on the only one , but I don't think it's got any name . 
However , this was anything but a regular bee in fact it was an elephant as Alice soon found out , though the idea quite took her breath away at first . 
And what enormous flowers they must be ! was her next idea . 
It'll never do to go down among them without a good long branch to brush them away and what fun it'll be when they ask me how I like my walk . 
Besides , I do so want to get into the Third Square ! So with this excuse she ran down the hill and jumped over the first of the six little brooks . 
Tickets , please ! said the Guard , putting his head in at the window . 
In a moment everybody was holding out a ticket they were about the same size as the people , and quite seemed to fill the carriage . 
Now then ! Show your ticket , child ! the Guard went on , looking angrily at Alice . 
And again the chorus of voices went on . 
There wasn't room for one where she came from . 
The land there is worth a thousand pounds an inch ! Don't make excuses , said the Guard you should have bought one from the engine driver . 
And once more the chorus of voices went on with The man that drives the engine . 
Why , the smoke alone is worth a thousand pounds a puff ! Alice thought to herself , Then there's no use in speaking . 
, Better say nothing at all . 
Language is worth a thousand pounds a word ! I shall dream about a thousand pounds tonight , I know I shall ! thought Alice . 
All this time the Guard was looking at her , first through a telescope , then through a microscope , and then through an opera glass . 
At last he said , You're travelling the wrong way , and shut up the window and went away . 
Change engines it said , and was obliged to leave off . 
It sounds like a horse , Alice thought to herself . 
And an extremely small voice , close to her ear , said , You might make a joke on that something about horse and hoarse , you know . 
Indeed I shan't ! Alice said rather impatiently . 
I don't belong to this railway journey at all I was in a wood just now and I wish I could get back there . 
You might make a joke on THAT , said the little voice close to her ear something about you WOULD if you could , you know . 
But this was such a wonderfully small sigh , that she wouldn't have heard it at all , if it hadn't come QUITE close to her ear . 
The consequence of this was that it tickled her ear very much , and quite took off her thoughts from the unhappiness of the poor little creature . 
I know you are a friend , the little voice went on a dear friend , and an old friend . 
And you won't hurt me , though I AM an insect . 
What kind of insect ? Alice inquired a little anxiously . 
What she really wanted to know was , whether it could sting or not , but she thought this wouldn't be quite a civil question to ask . 
What , then you don't the little voice began , when it was drowned by a shrill scream from the engine , and everybody jumped up in alarm , Alice among the rest . 
The Horse , who had put his head out of the window , quietly drew it in and said , It's only a brook we have to jump over . 
Everybody seemed satisfied with this , though Alice felt a little nervous at the idea of trains jumping at all . 
However , it'll take us into the Fourth Square , that's some comfort ! she said to herself . 
In another moment she felt the carriage rise straight up into the air , and in her fright she caught at the thing nearest to her hand . 
which happened to be the Goat's beard . 
was balancing itself on a twig just over her head , and fanning her with its wings . 
It certainly was a VERY large Gnat about the size of a chicken , Alice thought . 
Still , she couldn't feel nervous with it , after they had been talking together so long . 
then you don't like all insects ? the Gnat went on , as quietly as if nothing had happened . 
I like them when they can talk , Alice said . 
None of them ever talk , where I come from . 
What sort of insects do you rejoice in , where YOU come from ? the Gnat inquired . 
I don't REJOICE in insects at all , Alice explained , because I'm rather afraid of them at least the large kinds . 
But I can tell you the names of some of them . 
Of course they answer to their names ? the Gnat remarked carelessly . 
I never knew them do it . 
If not , why do things have names at all ? I can't say , the Gnat replied . 
Further on , in the wood down there , they've got no names however , go on with your list of insects you're wasting time . 
Well , there's the Horse fly , Alice began , counting off the names on her fingers . 
All right , said the Gnat half way up that bush , you'll see a Rocking horse fly , if you look . 
It's made entirely of wood , and gets about by swinging itself from branch to branch . 
What does it live on ? Alice asked , with great curiosity . 
Sap and sawdust , said the Gnat . 
Go on with the list . 
And there's the Dragon fly . 
Look on the branch above your head , said the Gnat , and there you'll find a snap dragon fly . 
Its body is made of plum pudding , its wings of holly leaves , and its head is a raisin burning in brandy . 
And what does it live on ? Frumenty and mince pie , the Gnat replied and it makes its nest in a Christmas box . 
, you may observe a Bread and Butterfly . 
Its wings are thin slices of Bread and butter , its body is a crust , and its head is a lump of sugar . 
And what does IT live on ? Weak tea with cream in it . 
A new difficulty came into Alice's head . 
Supposing it couldn't find any ? she suggested . 
Then it would die , of course . 
But that must happen very often , Alice remarked thoughtfully . 
It always happens , said the Gnat . 
After this , Alice was silent for a minute or two , pondering . 
That would never do , I'm sure , said Alice the governess would never think of excusing me lessons for that . 
If she couldn't remember my name , she'd call me Miss ! as the servants do . 
if she said Miss , and didn't say anything more , the Gnat remarked , of course you'd miss your lessons . 
I wish YOU had made it . 
Why do you wish I had made it ? Alice asked . 
It's a very bad one . 
But the Gnat only sighed deeply , while two large tears came rolling down its cheeks . 
You shouldn't make jokes , Alice said , if it makes you so unhappy . 
This must be the wood , she said thoughtfully to herself , where things have no names . 
She was rambling on in this way when she reached the wood it looked very cool and shady . 
I mean to get under the under the under THIS , you know ! putting her hand on the trunk of the tree . 
What do you call yourself ? the Fawn said at last . 
Such a soft sweet voice it had ! I wish I knew ! thought poor Alice . 
She answered , rather sadly , Nothing , just now . 
Think again , it said that won't do . 
Alice thought , but nothing came of it . 
Please , would you tell me what YOU call yourself ? she said timidly . 
I think that might help a little . 
I'll tell you , if you'll move a little further on , the Fawn said . 
Alice stood looking after it , almost ready to cry with vexation at having lost her dear little fellow traveller so suddenly . 
However , I know my name now . 
she said , that's SOME comfort . 
Alice Alice I won't forget it again . 
I'll settle it , Alice said to herself , when the road divides and they point different ways . 
But this did not seem likely to happen . 
I do believe , said Alice at last , that they live in the same house ! I wonder I never thought of that before But I can't stay there long . 
I'll just call and say how d'you do ? and ask them the way out of the wood . 
I suppose they've each got TWEEDLE round at the back of the collar , she said to herself . 
If you think we're wax works , he said , you ought to pay , you know . 
Wax works weren't made to be looked at for nothing , nohow ! Contrariwise , added the one marked DEE , if you think we're alive , you ought to speak . 
Just then flew down a monstrous crow , As black as a tar barrel Which frightened both the heroes so , They quite forgot their quarrel . 
I know what you're thinking about , said Tweedledum but it isn't so , nohow . 
Contrariwise , continued Tweedledee , if it was so , it might be and if it were so , it would be but as it isn't , it ain't . 
I was thinking , Alice said very politely , which is the best way out of this wood it's getting so dark . 
Would you tell me , please ? But the little men only looked at each other and grinned . 
Next Boy ! said Alice , passing on to Tweedledee , though she felt quite certain he would only shout out Contrariwise ! and so he did . 
You've been wrong ! cried Tweedledum . 
by the branches rubbing one across the other , like fiddles and fiddle sticks . 
to find myself singing HERE WE GO ROUND THE MULBERRY BUSH . 
Four times round is enough for one dance , Tweedledum panted out , and they left off dancing as suddenly as they had begun the music stopped at the same moment . 
And thank you VERY much for asking , said Tweedledum . 
So much obliged ! added Tweedledee . 
You like poetry ? Ye es . 
pretty well SOME poetry , Alice said doubtfully . 
THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER is the longest , Tweedledum replied , giving his brother an affectionate hug . 
Tweedledee began instantly The sun was shining Here Alice ventured to interrupt him . 
You could not see a cloud , because No cloud was in the sky No birds were flying over head There were no birds to fly . 
O Oysters , come and walk with us ! The Walrus did beseech . 
A pleasant walk , a pleasant talk , Along the briny beach We cannot do with more than four , To give a hand to each . 
The eldest Oyster looked at him . 
But never a word he said The eldest Oyster winked his eye , And shook his heavy head Meaning to say he did not choose To leave the oyster bed . 
The Walrus and the Carpenter Walked on a mile or so , And then they rested on a rock Conveniently low And all the little Oysters stood And waited in a row . 
They thanked him much for that . 
With sobs and tears he sorted out Those of the largest size . 
Holding his pocket handkerchief Before his streaming eyes . 
O Oysters , said the Carpenter . 
You've had a pleasant run ! Shall we be trotting home again ? But answer came there none And that was scarcely odd , because They'd eaten every one . 
I like the Walrus best , said Alice because you see he was a LITTLE sorry for the poor oysters . 
He ate more than the Carpenter , though , said Tweedledee . 
You see he held his handkerchief in front , so that the Carpenter couldn't count how many he took contrariwise . 
That was mean ! Alice said indignantly . 
Then I like the Carpenter best if he didn't eat so many as the Walrus . 
But he ate as many as he could get , said Tweedledum . 
Are there any lions or tigers about here ? she asked timidly . 
It's only the Red King snoring , said Tweedledee . 
Come and look at him ! the brothers cried , and they each took one of Alice's hands , and led her up to where the King was sleeping . 
Isn't he a LOVELY sight ? said Tweedledum . 
Alice couldn't say honestly that he was . 
I'm afraid he'll catch cold with lying on the damp grass , said Alice , who was a very thoughtful little girl . 
He's dreaming now , said Tweedledee and what do you think he's dreaming about ? Alice said Nobody can guess that . 
Why , about YOU ! Tweedledee exclaimed , clapping his hands triumphantly . 
And if he left off dreaming about you , where do you suppose you'd be ? Where I am now , of course , said Alice . 
Not you ! Tweedledee retorted contemptuously . 
Besides , if I'M only a sort of thing in his dream , what are YOU , I should like to know ? Ditto' said Tweedledum . 
Ditto , ditto' cried Tweedledee . 
He shouted this so loud that Alice couldn't help saying , Hush ! You'll be waking him , I'm afraid , if you make so much noise . 
Well , it no use YOUR talking about waking him , said Tweedledum , when you're only one of the things in his dream . 
You know very well you're not real . 
I AM real ! said Alice and began to cry . 
You won't make yourself a bit realler by crying , Tweedledee remarked there's nothing to cry about . 
If I wasn't real , Alice said half laughing though her tears , it all seemed so ridiculous I shouldn't be able to cry . 
I hope you don't suppose those are real tears ? Tweedledum interrupted in a tone of great contempt . 
I know they're talking nonsense , Alice thought to herself and it's foolish to cry about it . 
So she brushed away her tears , and went on as cheerfully as she could . 
At any rate I'd better be getting out of the wood , for really it's coming on very dark . 
Do you think it's going to rain ? Tweedledum spread a large umbrella over himself and his brother , and looked up into it . 
No , I don't think it is , he said at least not under HERE . 
But it may rain OUTSIDE ? It may if it chooses , said Tweedledee we've no objection . 
Selfish things ! thought Alice , and she was just going to say Good night' and leave them , when Tweedledum sprang out from under the umbrella and seized her by the wrist . 
It's only a rattle , Alice said , after a careful examination of the little white thing . 
Not a rattleSNAKE , you know , she added hastily , thinking that he was frightened only an old rattle quite old and broken . 
I knew it was ! cried Tweedledum , beginning to stamp about wildly and tear his hair . 
It's spoilt , of course ! Here he looked at Tweedledee , who immediately sat down on the ground , and tried to hide himself under the umbrella . 
Alice laid her hand upon his arm , and said in a soothing tone , You needn't be so angry about an old rattle . 
But it isn't old ! Tweedledum cried , in a greater fury than ever . 
It's new , I tell you I bought it yesterday my nice New RATTLE ! and his voice rose to a perfect scream . 
Of course you agree to have a battle ? Tweedledum said in a calmer tone . 
I suppose so , the other sulkily replied , as he crawled out of the umbrella only SHE must help us to dress up , you know . 
I hope you're a good hand at pinning and tying strings ? Tweedledum remarked . 
Every one of these things has got to go on , somehow or other . 
You know , he added very gravely , it's one of the most serious things that can possibly happen to one in a battle to get one's head cut off . 
Alice laughed aloud but she managed to turn it into a cough , for fear of hurting his feelings . 
Do I look very pale ? said Tweedledum , coming up to have his helmet tied on . 
Well yes a LITTLE , Alice replied gently . 
I'm very brave generally , he went on in a low voice only to day I happen to have a headache . 
And I'VE got a toothache ! said Tweedledee , who had overheard the remark . 
I'm far worse off than you ! Then you'd better not fight to day , said Alice , thinking it a good opportunity to make peace . 
We MUST have a bit of a fight , but I don't care about going on long , said Tweedledum . 
What's the time now ? Tweedledee looked at his watch , and said Half past four . 
Let's fight till six , and then have dinner , said Tweedledum . 
And I hit everything within reach , cried Tweedledum , whether I can see it or not ! Alice laughed . 
You must hit the TREES pretty often , I should think , she said . 
Tweedledum looked round him with a satisfied smile . 
I shouldn't have minded it so much , said Tweedledum , if it hadn't been a new one . 
I wish the monstrous crow would come ! though Alice . 
There's only one sword , you know , Tweedledum said to his brother but you can have the umbrella it's quite as sharp . 
Only we must begin quick . 
It's getting as dark as it can . 
It was getting dark so suddenly that Alice thought there must be a thunderstorm coming on . 
What a thick black cloud that is ! she said . 
Alice ran a little way into the wood , and stopped under a large tree . 
It can never get at me HERE , she thought it's far too large to squeeze itself in among the trees . 
I'm very glad I happened to be in the way , Alice said , as she helped her to put on her shawl again . 
So she began rather timidly Am I addressing the White Queen ? Well , yes , if you call that a dressing , The Queen said . 
It isn't MY notion of the thing , at all . 
But I don't want it done at all ! groaned the poor Queen . 
I've been a dressing myself for the last two hours . 
It would have been all the better , as it seemed to Alice , if she had got some one else to dress her , she was so dreadfully untidy . 
Every single thing's crooked , Alice thought to herself , and she's all over pins ! may I put your shawl straight for you ? she added aloud . 
I don't know what's the matter with it ! the Queen said , in a melancholy voice . 
It's out of temper , I think . 
And I lost the comb yesterday . 
Alice carefully released the brush , and did her best to get the hair into order . 
Come , you look rather better now ! she said , after altering most of the pins . 
But really you should have a lady's maid ! I'm sure I'll take you with pleasure ! the Queen said . 
Twopence a week , and jam every other day . 
Alice couldn't help laughing , as she said , I don't want you to hire ME and I don't care for jam . 
It's very good jam , said the Queen . 
Well , I don't want any TO DAY , at any rate . 
You couldn't have it if you DID want it , the Queen said . 
The rule is , jam to morrow and jam yesterday but never jam to day . 
It MUST come sometimes to jam to day , Alice objected . 
No , it can't , said the Queen . 
It's jam every OTHER day to day isn't any OTHER day , you know . 
I don't understand you , said Alice . 
It's dreadfully confusing ! That's the effect of living backwards , the Queen said kindly it always makes one a little giddy at first Living backwards ! Alice repeated in great astonishment . 
I never heard of such a thing ! but there's one great advantage in it , that one's memory works both ways . 
I'm sure MINE only works one way . 
I can't remember things before they happen . 
It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards , the Queen remarked . 
What sort of things do YOU remember best ? Alice ventured to ask . 
Oh , things that happened the week after next , the Queen replied in a careless tone . 
For instance , now , she went on , sticking a large piece of plaster band aid on her finger as she spoke , there's the King's Messenger . 
He's in prison now , being punished and the trial doesn't even begin till next Wednesday and of course the crime comes last of all . 
Suppose he never commits the crime ? said Alice . 
That would be all the better , wouldn't it ? the Queen said , as she bound the plaster round her finger with a bit of ribbon . 
Alice felt there was no denying THAT . 
Of course it would be all the better , she said but it wouldn't be all the better his being punished . 
You're wrong THERE , at any rate , said the Queen were YOU ever punished ? Only for faults , said Alice . 
And you were all the better for it , I know ! the Queen said triumphantly . 
Yes , but then I HAD done the things I was punished for , said Alice that makes all the difference . 
Alice was just beginning to say There's a mistake somewhere , when the Queen began screaming so loud that she had to leave the sentence unfinished . 
Oh , oh , oh ! shouted the Queen , shaking her hand about as if she wanted to shake it off . 
What IS the matter ? she said , as soon as there was a chance of making herself heard . 
When I fasten my shawl again , the poor Queen groaned out the brooch will come undone directly . 
Oh , oh ! As she said the words the brooch flew open , and the Queen clutched wildly at it , and tried to clasp it again . 
Take care ! cried Alice . 
You're holding it all crooked ! And she caught at the brooch but it was too late the pin had slipped , and the Queen had pricked her finger . 
That accounts for the bleeding , you see , she said to Alice with a smile . 
Now you understand the way things happen here . 
But why don't you scream now ? Alice asked , holding her hands ready to put over her ears again . 
Why , I've done all the screaming already , said the Queen . 
What would be the good of having it all over again ? By this time it was getting light . 
The crow must have flown away , I think , said Alice I'm so glad it's gone . 
I thought it was the night coming on . 
I wish I could manage to be glad ! the Queen said . 
Only I never can remember the rule . 
Oh , don't go on like that ! cried the poor Queen , wringing her hands in despair . 
Consider what a great girl you are . 
Consider what a long way you've come to day . 
Consider what o'clock it is . 
Consider anything , only don't cry ! Alice could not help laughing at this , even in the midst of her tears . 
Can YOU keep from crying by considering things ? she asked . 
That's the way it's done , the Queen said with great decision nobody can do two things at once , you know . 
Let's consider your age to begin with how old are you ? I'm seven and a half exactly . 
You needn't say exactually , the Queen remarked I can believe it without that . 
Now I'll give YOU something to believe . 
I'm just one hundred and one , five months and a day . 
I can't believe THAT ! said Alice . 
Can't you ? the Queen said in a pitying tone . 
Try again draw a long breath , and shut your eyes . 
There's no use trying , she said one CAN'T believe impossible things . 
I daresay you haven't had much practice , said the Queen . 
When I was your age , I always did it for half an hour a day . 
Why , sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast . 
There goes the shawl again ! The brooch had come undone as she spoke , and a sudden gust of wind blew the Queen's shawl across a little brook . 
The Queen spread out her arms again , and went flying after it , and this time she succeeded in catching it for herself . 
I've got it ! she cried in a triumphant tone . 
Oh , much better ! cried the Queen , her voice rising to a squeak as she went on . 
Much be etter ! Be etter ! Be e e etter ! Be e ehh ! The last word ended in a long bleat , so like a sheep that Alice quite started . 
She looked at the Queen , who seemed to have suddenly wrapped herself up in wool . 
Alice rubbed her eyes , and looked again . 
She couldn't make out what had happened at all . 
What is it you want to buy ? the Sheep said at last , looking up for a moment from her knitting . 
I don't QUITE know yet , Alice said , very gently . 
I should like to look all round me first , if I might . 
But these , as it happened , Alice had NOT got so she contented herself with turning round , looking at the shelves as she came to them . 
Are you a child or a teetotum ? the Sheep said , as she took up another pair of needles . 
You'll make me giddy soon , if you go on turning round like that . 
She was now working with fourteen pairs at once , and Alice couldn't help looking at her in great astonishment . 
How CAN she knit with so many ? the puzzled child thought to herself . 
She gets more and more like a porcupine every minute ! Can you row ? the Sheep asked , handing her a pair of knitting needles as she spoke . 
Feather ! cried the Sheep , as she took up another pair of needles . 
This didn't sound like a remark that needed any answer , so Alice said nothing , but pulled away . 
There was something very queer about the water , she thought , as every now and then the oars got fast in it , and would hardly come out again . 
Feather ! Feather ! the Sheep cried again , taking more needles . 
You'll be catching a crab directly . 
A dear little crab ! thought Alice . 
Didn't you hear me say Feather ? the Sheep cried angrily , taking up quite a bunch of needles . 
Indeed I did , said Alice you've said it very often and very loud . 
Please , where ARE the crabs ? In the water , of course ! said the Sheep , sticking some of the needles into her hair , as her hands were full . 
Feather , I say ! WHY do you say feather so often ? Alice asked at last , rather vexed . 
'I'm not a bird ! You are , said the Sheet you're a little goose . 
, and sometimes under trees , but always with the same tall river banks frowning over their heads . 
Oh , please ! There are some scented rushes ! Alice cried in a sudden transport of delight . 
No , but I meant please , may we wait and pick some ? Alice pleaded . 
If you don't mind stopping the boat for a minute . 
How am I to stop it ? said the Sheep . 
If you leave off rowing , it'll stop of itself . 
So the boat was left to drift down the stream as it would , till it glided gently in among the waving rushes . 
I only hope the boat won't tipple over ! she said to herself . 
Oh , WHAT a lovely one ! Only I couldn't quite reach it . 
that , though she managed to pick plenty of beautiful rushes as the boat glided by , there was always a more lovely one that she couldn't reach . 
However , she wasn't hurt , and was soon up again the Sheep went on with her knitting all the while , just as if nothing had happened . 
That was a nice crab you caught ! she remarked , as Alice got back into her place , very much relieved to find herself still in the boat . 
Was it ? I didn't see it , Said Alice , peeping cautiously over the side of the boat into the dark water . 
Are there many crabs here ? said Alice . 
Crabs , and all sorts of things , said the Sheep plenty of choice , only make up your mind . 
I should like to buy an egg , please , she said timidly . 
How do you sell them ? Fivepence farthing for one Twopence for two , the Sheep replied . 
Then two are cheaper than one ? Alice said in a surprised tone , taking out her purse . 
Only you MUST eat them both , if you buy two , said the Sheep . 
Then I'll have ONE , please , said Alice , as she put the money down on the counter . 
For she thought to herself , They mightn't be at all nice , you know . 
The Sheep took the money , and put it away in a box then she said I never put things into people's hands that would never do you must get it for yourself . 
And so saying , she went off to the other end of the shop , and set the egg upright on a shelf . 
I wonder WHY it wouldn't do ? thought Alice , as she groped her way among the tables and chairs , for the shop was very dark towards the end . 
The egg seems to get further away the more I walk towards it . 
It can't be anybody else ! she said to herself . 
I'm as certain of it , as if his name were written all over his face . 
It might have been written a hundred times , easily , on that enormous face . 
And how exactly like an egg he is ! she said aloud , standing with her hands ready to catch him , for she was every moment expecting him to fall . 
And some eggs are very pretty , you know' she added , hoping to turn her remark into a sort of a compliment . 
All the King's horses and all the King's men Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty in his place again . 
That last line is much too long for the poetry , she added , almost out loud , forgetting that Humpty Dumpty would hear her . 
Don't stand there chattering to yourself like that , Humpty Dumpty said , looking at her for the first time , but tell me your name and your business . 
My NAME is Alice , but It's a stupid enough name ! Humpty Dumpty interrupted impatiently . 
What does it mean ? MUST a name mean something ? Alice asked doubtfully . 
Of course it must , Humpty Dumpty said with a short laugh MY name means the shape I am and a good handsome shape it is , too . 
With a name like yours , you might be any shape , almost . 
Why do you sit out here all alone ? said Alice , not wishing to begin an argument . 
Why , because there's nobody with me ! cried Humpty Dumpty . 
Did you think I didn't know the answer to THAT ? Ask another . 
That wall is so VERY narrow ! What tremendously easy riddles you ask ! Humpty Dumpty growled out . 
Now I declare that's too bad ! Humpty Dumpty cried , breaking into a sudden passion . 
You've been listening at doors and behind trees and down chimneys or you couldn't have known it ! I haven't , indeed ! Alice said very gently . 
Ah , well ! They may write such things in a BOOK , Humpty Dumpty said in a calmer tone . 
That's what you call a History of England , that is . 
and offered Alice his hand . 
She watched him a little anxiously as she took it . 
They'd pick me up again in a minute , THEY would ! However , this conversation is going on a little too fast let's go back to the last remark but one . 
I'm afraid I can't quite remember it , Alice said very politely . 
So here's a question for you . 
How old did you say you were ? Alice made a short calculation , and said Seven years and six months . 
Wrong ! Humpty Dumpty exclaimed triumphantly . 
You never said a word like it ! I though you meant How old ARE you ? Alice explained . 
If I'd meant that , I'd have said it , said Humpty Dumpty . 
Alice didn't want to begin another argument , so she said nothing . 
Seven years and six months ! Humpty Dumpty repeated thoughtfully . 
An uncomfortable sort of age . 
Now if you'd asked MY advice , I'd have said Leave off at seven but it's too late now . 
I never ask advice about growing , Alice said indignantly . 
Too proud ? the other inquired . 
Alice felt even more indignant at this suggestion . 
I mean , she said , that one can't help growing older . 
ONE can't , perhaps , said Humpty Dumpty , but TWO can . 
With proper assistance , you might have left off at seven . 
What a beautiful belt you've got on ! Alice suddenly remarked . 
When he DID speak again , it was in a deep growl . 
It's a cravat , child , and a beautiful one , as you say . 
It's a present from the White King and Queen . 
There now ! Is it really ? said Alice , quite pleased to find that she HAD chosen a good subject , after all . 
I beg your pardon ? Alice said with a puzzled air . 
I'm not offended , said Humpty Dumpty . 
I mean , what IS an un birthday present ? A present given when it isn't your birthday , of course . 
I like birthday presents best , she said at last . 
You don't know what you're talking about ! cried Humpty Dumpty . 
How many days are there in a year ? Three hundred and sixty five , said Alice . 
And how many birthdays have you ? One . 
And if you take one from three hundred and sixty five , what remains ? Three hundred and sixty four , of course . 
I'd rather see that done on paper , he said . 
Alice couldn't help smiling as she took out her memorandum book , and worked the sum for him Humpty Dumpty took the book , and looked at it carefully . 
That seems to be done right he began . 
You're holding it upside down ! Alice interrupted . 
To be sure I was ! Humpty Dumpty said gaily , as she turned it round for him . 
I thought it looked a little queer . 
And only ONE for birthday presents , you know . 
There's glory for you ! I don't know what you mean by glory , Alice said . 
Of course you don't till I tell you . 
I meant there's a nice knock down argument for you ! But glory doesn't mean a nice knock down argument , Alice objected . 
When I use a word , Humpty Dumpty said in rather a scornful tone , it means just what I choose it to mean neither more nor less . 
The question is , said Alice , whether you CAN make words mean so many different things . 
The question is , said Humpty Dumpty , which is to be master that's all . 
Alice was too much puzzled to say anything , so after a minute Humpty Dumpty began again . 
That's a great deal to make one word mean , Alice said in a thoughtful tone . 
When I make a word do a lot of work like that , said Humpty Dumpty , I always pay it extra . 
She was too much puzzled to make any other remark . 
You seem very clever at explaining words , Sir , said Alice . 
Would you kindly tell me the meaning of the poem called Jabberwocky ? Let's hear it , said Humpty Dumpty . 
I can explain all the poems that were ever invented and a good many that haven't been invented just yet . 
That's enough to begin with , Humpty Dumpty interrupted there are plenty of hard words there . 
BRILLIG means four o'clock in the afternoon the time when you begin BROILING things for dinner . 
That'll do very well , said Alice and SLITHY ? Well , SLITHY means lithe and slimy . 
Lithe is the same as active . 
You see it's like a portmanteau there are two meanings packed up into one word . 
I see it now , Alice remarked thoughtfully and what are TOVES ? Well , TOVES are something like badgers they're something like lizards and they're something like corkscrews . 
They must be very curious looking creatures . 
They are that , said Humpty Dumpty also they make their nests under sun dials also they live on cheese . 
Andy what's the GYRE and to GIMBLE ? To GYRE is to go round and round like a gyroscope . 
To GIMBLE is to make holes like a gimlet . 
And THE WABE is the grass plot round a sun dial , I suppose ? said Alice , surprised at her own ingenuity . 
Well , then , MIMSY is flimsy and miserable . 
And a BOROGOVE is a thin shabby looking bird with its feathers sticking out all round something like a live mop . 
And then MOME RATHS ? said Alice . 
I'm afraid I'm giving you a great deal of trouble . 
Well , a RATH is a sort of green pig but MOME I'm not certain about . 
I think it's short for from home meaning that they'd lost their way , you know . 
Who's been repeating all that hard stuff to you ? I read it in a book , said Alice . 
But I had some poetry repeated to me , much easier than that , by Tweedledee , I think it was . 
The piece I'm going to repeat , he went on without noticing her remark , was written entirely for your amusement . 
Alice felt that in that case she really OUGHT to listen to it , so she sat down , and said Thank you' rather sadly . 
In winter , when the fields are white , I sing this song for your delight only I don't sing it , he added , as an explanation . 
I see you don't , said Alice . 
If you can SEE whether I'm singing or not , you've sharper eyes than most . 
In spring , when woods are getting green , I'll try and tell you what I mean . 
Thank you very much , said Alice . 
In summer , when the days are long , Perhaps you'll understand the song In autumn , when the leaves are brown , Take pen and ink , and write it down . 
I will , if I can remember it so long , said Alice . 
You needn't go on making remarks like that , Humpty Dumpty said they're not sensible , and they put me out . 
I sent a message to the fish I told them This is what I wish . 
The little fishes of the sea , They sent an answer back to me . 
The little fishes' answer was We cannot do it , Sir , because I'm afraid I don't quite understand , said Alice . 
It gets easier further on , Humpty Dumpty replied . 
I sent to them again to say It will be better to obey . 
The fishes answered with a grin , Why , what a temper you are in ! I told them once , I told them twice They would not listen to advice . 
I took a kettle large and new , Fit for the deed I had to do . 
My heart went hop , my heart went thump I filled the kettle at the pump . 
Then some one came to me and said , The little fishes are in bed . 
I said to him , I said it plain , Then you must wake them up again . 
I said it very loud and clear I went and shouted in his ear . 
And when I found the door was locked , I pulled and pushed and kicked and knocked . 
And when I found the door was shut , I tried to turn the handle , but There was a long pause . 
Is that all ? Alice timidly asked . 
That's all , said Humpty Dumpty . 
This was rather sudden , Alice thought but , after such a VERY strong hint that she ought to be going , she felt that it would hardly be civil to stay . 
So she got up , and held out her hand . 
Good bye , till we meet again ! she said as cheerfully as she could . 
I shouldn't know you again if we DID meet , Humpty Dumpty replied in a discontented tone , giving her one of his fingers to shake you're so exactly like other people . 
The face is what one goes by , generally , Alice remarked in a thoughtful tone . 
That's just what I complain of , said Humpty Dumpty . 
nose in the middle , mouth under . 
Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose , for instance or the mouth at the top that would be SOME help . 
It wouldn't look nice , Alice objected . 
But Humpty Dumpty only shut his eyes and said Wait till you've tried . 
of all the unsatisfactory people I EVER met She never finished the sentence , for at this moment a heavy crash shook the forest from end to end . 
Alice got behind a tree , for fear of being run over , and watched them go by . 
I've sent them all ! the King cried in a tone of delight , on seeing Alice . 
Did you happen to meet any soldiers , my dear , as you came through the wood ? Yes , I did , said Alice several thousand , I should think . 
Four thousand two hundred and seven , that's the exact number , the King said , referring to his book . 
I couldn't send all the horses , you know , because two of them are wanted in the game . 
And I haven't sent the two Messengers , either . 
They're both gone to the town . 
Just look along the road , and tell me if you can see either of them . 
I see nobody on the road , said Alice . 
I only wish I had such eyes , the King remarked in a fretful tone . 
I see somebody now ! she exclaimed at last . 
Not at all , said the King . 
He's an Anglo Saxon Messenger and those are Anglo Saxon attitudes . 
He only does them when he's happy . 
I love my love with an H , Alice couldn't help beginning , because he is Happy . 
I hate him with an H , because he is Hideous . 
I fed him with with with Ham sandwiches and Hay . 
I must have TWO , you know to come and go . 
Once to come , and one to go . 
I beg your pardon ? said Alice . 
It isn't respectable to beg , said the King . 
I only meant that I didn't understand , said Alice . 
Why one to come and one to go ? Didn't I tell you ? the King repeated impatiently . 
I must have Two to fetch and carry . 
One to fetch , and one to carry . 
You alarm me ! said the King . 
Another sandwich ! said the King . 
There's nothing but hay left now , the Messenger said , peeping into the bag . 
Hay , then , the King murmured in a faint whisper . 
Alice was glad to see that it revived him a good deal . 
There's nothing like eating hay when you're faint , he remarked to her , as he munched away . 
I should think throwing cold water over you would be better , Alice suggested or some sal volatile . 
I didn't say there was nothing BETTER , the King replied . 
I said there was nothing LIKE it . 
Which Alice did not venture to deny . 
Who did you pass on the road ? the King went on , holding out his hand to the Messenger for some more hay . 
Nobody , said the Messenger . 
Quite right , said the King this young lady saw him too . 
So of course Nobody walks slower than you . 
I do my best , the Messenger said in a sulky tone . 
I'm sure nobody walks much faster than I do ! He can't do that , said the King , or else he'd have been here first . 
However , now you've got your breath , you may tell us what's happened in the town . 
I'll whisper it , said the Messenger , putting his hands to his mouth in the shape of a trumpet , and stooping so as to get close to the King's ear . 
Alice was sorry for this , as she wanted to hear the news too . 
Who are at it again ? she ventured to ask . 
Why the Lion and the Unicorn , of course , said the King . 
Some gave them white bread , some gave them brown Some gave them plum cake and drummed them out of town . 
Does the one that wins get the crown ? she asked , as well as she could , for the run was putting her quite out of breath . 
Dear me , no ! said the King . 
You see , a minute goes by so fearfully quick . 
They were in such a cloud of dust , that at first Alice could not make out which was which but she soon managed to distinguish the Unicorn by his horn . 
How are you , dear child ? he went on , putting his arm affectionately round Hatta's neck . 
Hatta looked round and nodded , and went on with his bread and butter . 
Were you happy in prison , dear child ? said Haigha . 
Hatta looked round once more , and this time a tear or two trickled down his cheek but not a word would he say . 
Speak , can't you ! Haigha cried impatiently . 
But Hatta only munched away , and drank some more tea . 
Speak , won't you ! cried the King . 
'How are they getting on with the fight ? Hatta made a desperate effort , and swallowed a large piece of bread and butter . 
They're getting on very well , he said in a choking voice each of them has been down about eighty seven times . 
Then I suppose they'll soon bring the white bread and the brown ? Alice ventured to remark . 
It's waiting for 'em now , said Hatta this is a bit of it as I'm eating . 
Alice took a piece to taste , but it was VERY dry . 
I don't think they'll fight any more to day , the King said to Hatta go and order the drums to begin . 
And Hatta went bounding away like a grasshopper . 
For a minute or two Alice stood silent , watching him . 
Look , look ! she cried , pointing eagerly . 
That wood's full of them . 
But aren't you going to run and help her ? Alice asked , very much surprised at his taking it so quietly . 
No use , no use ! said the King . 
She runs so fearfully quick . 
Do you spell creature with a double e ? At this moment the Unicorn sauntered by them , with his hands in his pockets . 
I had the best of it this time ? he said to the King , just glancing at him as he passed . 
A little a little , the King replied , rather nervously . 
You shouldn't have run him through with your horn , you know . 
What is this ? he said at last . 
This is a child ! Haigha replied eagerly , coming in front of Alice to introduce her , and spreading out both his hands towards her in an Anglo Saxon attitude . 
We only found it to day . 
It's as large as life , and twice as natural ! I always thought they were fabulous monsters ! said the Unicorn . 
Is it alive ? It can talk , said Haigha , solemnly . 
The Unicorn looked dreamily at Alice , and said Talk , child . 
Is that a bargain ? Yes , if you like , said Alice . 
Come , fetch out the plum cake , old man ! the Unicorn went on , turning from her to the King . 
None of your brown bread for me ! Certainly certainly ! the King muttered , and beckoned to Haigha . 
Open the bag ! he whispered . 
How they all came out of it Alice couldn't guess . 
It was just like a conjuring trick , she thought . 
The Lion had joined them while this was going on he looked very tired and sleepy , and his eyes were half shut . 
What's this ! he said , blinking lazily at Alice , and speaking in a deep hollow tone that sounded like the tolling of a great bell . 
Ah , what IS it , now ? the Unicorn cried eagerly . 
You'll never guess ! I couldn't . 
The Lion looked at Alice wearily . 
Are you animal vegetable or mineral ? he said , yawning at every other word . 
It's a fabulous monster ! the Unicorn cried out , before Alice could reply . 
Then hand round the plum cake , Monster , the Lion said , lying down and putting his chin on this paws . 
fair play with the cake , you know ! The King was evidently very uncomfortable at having to sit down between the two great creatures but there was no other place for him . 
I should win easy , said the Lion . 
I'm not so sure of that , said the Unicorn . 
Why , I beat you all round the town , you chicken ! the Lion replied angrily , half getting up as he spoke . 
Here the King interrupted , to prevent the quarrel going on he was very nervous , and his voice quite quivered . 
All round the town ? he said . 
That's a good long way . 
Did you go by the old bridge , or the market place ? You get the best view by the old bridge . 
I'm sure I don't know , the Lion growled out as he lay down again . 
There was too much dust to see anything . 
It's very provoking ! she said , in reply to the Lion . 
I've cut several slices already , but they always join on again ! You don't know how to manage Looking glass cakes , the Unicorn remarked . 
Hand it round first , and cut it afterwards . 
This sounded nonsense , but Alice very obediently got up , and carried the dish round , and the cake divided itself into three pieces as she did so . 
NOW cut it up , said the Lion , as she returned to her place with the empty dish . 
I say , this isn't fair ! cried the Unicorn , as Alice sat with the knife in her hand , very much puzzled how to begin . 
The Monster has given the Lion twice as much as me ! She's kept none for herself , anyhow , said the Lion . 
Do you like plum cake , Monster ? But before Alice could answer him , the drums began . 
Where the noise came from , she couldn't make out the air seemed full of it , and it rang through and through her head till she felt quite deafened . 
Just as he reached her , the horse stopped suddenly You're my prisoner ! the Knight cried , as he tumbled off his horse . 
Startled as she was , Alice was more frightened for him than for herself at the moment , and watched him with some anxiety as he mounted again . 
This time it was a White Knight . 
Alice looked from one to the other in some bewilderment . 
She's MY prisoner , you know ! the Red Knight said at last . 
Yes , but then I came and rescued her ! the White Knight replied . 
, and put it on . 
You will observe the Rules of Battle , of course ? the White Knight remarked , putting on his helmet too . 
It was a glorious victory , wasn't it ? said the White Knight , as he came up panting . 
I don't know , Alice said doubtfully . 
I don't want to be anybody's prisoner . 
I want to be a Queen . 
So you will , when you've crossed the next brook , said the White Knight . 
I'll see you safe to the end of the wood and then I must go back , you know . 
That's the end of my move . 
Thank you very much , said Alice . 
May I help you off with your helmet ? It was evidently more than he could manage by himself however , she managed to shake him out of it at last . 
Now one can breathe more easily , said the Knight , putting back his shaggy hair with both hands , and turning his gentle face and large mild eyes to Alice . 
She thought she had never seen such a strange looking soldier in all her life . 
Alice looked at it with great curiosity . 
I see you're admiring my little box . 
the Knight said in a friendly tone . 
It's my own invention to keep clothes and sandwiches in . 
You see I carry it upside down , so that the rain can't get in . 
But the things can get OUT , Alice gently remarked . 
Do you know the lid's open ? I didn't know it , the Knight said , a shade of vexation passing over his face . 
Then all the things much have fallen out ! And the box is no use without them . 
Can you guess why I did that ? he said to Alice . 
In hopes some bees may make a nest in it then I should get the honey . 
But you've got a bee hive or something like one fastened to the saddle , said Alice . 
Yes , it's a very good bee hive , the Knight said in a discontented tone , one of the best kind . 
But not a single bee has come near it yet . 
And the other thing is a mouse trap . 
I suppose the mice keep the bees out or the bees keep the mice out , I don't know which . 
I was wondering what the mouse trap was for , said Alice . 
It isn't very likely there would be any mice on the horse's back . 
Not very likely , perhaps , said the Knight but if they DO come , I don't choose to have them running all about . 
You see , he went on after a pause , it's as well to be provided for EVERYTHING . 
That's the reason the horse has all those anklets round his feet . 
But what are they for ? Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity . 
To guard against the bites of sharks , the Knight replied . 
It's an invention of my own . 
And now help me on . 
I'll go with you to the end of the wood What's the dish for ? It's meant for plum cake , said Alice . 
We'd better take it with us , the Knight said . 
It'll come in handy if we find any plum cake . 
Help me to get it into this bag . 
It's rather a tight fit , you see , he said , as they got it in a last There are so many candlesticks in the bag . 
And he hung it to the saddle , which was already loaded with bunches of carrots , and fire irons , and many other things . 
I hope you've got your hair well fastened on ? he continued , as they set off . 
Only in the usual way , Alice said , smiling . 
That's hardly enough , he said , anxiously . 
You see the wind is so VERY strong here . 
It's as strong as soup . 
Have you invented a plan for keeping the hair from being blown off ? Alice enquired . 
Not yet , said the Knight . 
But I've got a plan for keeping it from FALLING off . 
I should like to hear it , very much . 
First you take an upright stick , said the Knight . 
Then you make your hair creep up it , like a fruit tree . 
Now the reason hair falls off is because it hangs DOWN things never fall UPWARDS , you know . 
It's a plan of my own invention . 
You may try it if you like . 
, he fell off behind . 
I'm afraid you've not had much practice in riding , she ventured to say , as she was helping him up from his fifth tumble . 
The Knight looked very much surprised , and a little offended at the remark . 
Because people don't fall off quite so often , when they've had much practice . 
They went on a little way in silence after this , the Knight with his eyes shut , muttering to himself , and Alice watching anxiously for the next tumble . 
The great art of riding , as I was saying , is to keep your balance properly . 
Plenty of practice ! he went on repeating , all the time that Alice was getting him on his feet again . 
Plenty of practice ! It's too ridiculous ! cried Alice , losing all her patience this time . 
Much more smoothly than a live horse , Alice said , with a little scream of laughter , in spite of all she could do to prevent it . 
I'll get one , the Knight said thoughtfully to himself . 
There was a short silence after this , and then the Knight went on again . 
I'm a great hand at inventing things . 
Now , I daresay you noticed , that last time you picked me up , that I was looking rather thoughtful ? You WERE a little grave , said Alice . 
Well , just then I was inventing a new way of getting over a gate would you like to hear it ? Very much indeed , Alice said politely . 
I'll tell you how I came to think of it , said the Knight . 
You see , I said to myself , The only difficulty is with the feet the HEAD is high enough already . 
He looked so vexed at the idea , that Alice changed the subject hastily . 
What a curious helmet you've got ! she said cheerfully . 
Is that your invention too ? The Knight looked down proudly at his helmet , which hung from the saddle . 
Yes , he said , but I've invented a better one than that like a sugar loaf . 
When I used to wear it , if I fell off the horse , it always touched the ground directly . 
So I had a VERY little way to fall , you see But there WAS the danger of falling INTO it , to be sure . 
That happened to me once and the worst of it was , before I could get out again , the other White Knight came and put it on . 
He thought it was his own helmet . 
The knight looked so solemn about it that Alice did not dare to laugh . 
I'm afraid you must have hurt him , she said in a trembling voice , being on the top of his head . 
I had to kick him , of course , the Knight said , very seriously . 
And then he took the helmet off again but it took hours and hours to get me out . 
I was as fast as as lightning , you know . 
But that's a different kind of fastness , Alice objected . 
The Knight shook his head . 
It was all kinds of fastness with me , I can assure you ! he said . 
He raised his hands in some excitement as he said this , and instantly rolled out of the saddle , and fell headlong into a deep ditch . 
Alice ran to the side of the ditch to look for him . 
She was rather startled by the fall , as for some time he had kept on very well , and she was afraid that he really WAS hurt this time . 
However , though she could see nothing but the soles of his feet , she was much relieved to hear that he was talking on in his usual tone . 
All kinds of fastness , he repeated but it was careless of him to put another man's helmet on with the man in it , too . 
How CAN you go on talking so quietly , head downwards ? Alice asked , as she dragged him out by the feet , and laid him in a heap on the bank . 
The Knight looked surprised at the question . 
What does it matter where my body happens to be ? he said . 
My mind goes on working all the same . 
In fact , the more head downwards I am , the more I keep inventing new things . 
Now the cleverest thing of the sort that I ever did , he went on after a pause , was inventing a new pudding during the meat course . 
In time to have it cooked for the next course ? said Alice . 
Well , not the NEXT course , the Knight said in a slow thoughtful tone no , certainly not the next COURSE . 
Then it would have to be the next day . 
I suppose you wouldn't have two pudding courses in one dinner ? Well , not the NEXT day , the Knight repeated as before not the next DAY . 
What did you mean it to be made of ? Alice asked , hoping to cheer him up , for the poor Knight seemed quite low spirited about it . 
It began with blotting paper , the Knight answered with a groan . 
And here I must leave you . 
They had just come to the end of the wood . 
Alice could only look puzzled she was thinking of the pudding . 
You are sad , the Knight said in an anxious tone let me sing you a song to comfort you . 
Is it very long ? Alice asked , for she had heard a good deal of poetry that day . 
It's long , said the Knight , but very , VERY beautiful . 
Everybody that hears me sing it either it brings the TEARS into their eyes , or else Or else what ? said Alice , for the Knight had made a sudden pause . 
Or else it doesn't , you know . 
The name of the song is called HADDOCKS' EYES . 
Oh , that's the name of the song , is it ? Alice said , trying to feel interested . 
No , you don't understand , the Knight said , looking a little vexed . 
That's what the name is CALLED . 
The name really IS THE AGED AGED MAN . 
Then I ought to have said That's what the SONG is called ? Alice corrected herself . 
I was coming to that , the Knight said . 
The song really IS A SITTING ON A GATE and the tune's my own invention . 
Of all the strange things that Alice saw in her journey Through The Looking Glass , this was the one that she always remembered most clearly . 
But the tune ISN'T his own invention , she said to herself it's I GIVE THEE ALL , I CAN NO MORE . 
She stood and listened very attentively , but no tears came into her eyes . 
I'll tell thee everything I can There's little to relate . 
I saw an aged aged man , A sitting on a gate . 
Who are you , aged man ? I said , and how is it you live ? And his answer trickled through my head Like water through a sieve . 
He said I look for butterflies That sleep among the wheat I make them into mutton pies , And sell them in the street . 
I sell them unto men , he said , Who sail on stormy seas And that's the way I get my bread A trifle , if you please . 
But I was thinking of a plan To dye one's whiskers green , And always use so large a fan That they could not be seen . 
So , having no reply to give To what the old man said , I cried , Come , tell me how you live ! And thumped him on the head . 
But I was thinking of a way To feed oneself on batter , And so go on from day to day Getting a little fatter . 
And these I do not sell for gold Or coin of silvery shine But for a copper halfpenny , And that will purchase nine . 
I sometimes dig for buttered rolls , Or set limed twigs for crabs I sometimes search the grassy knolls For wheels of Hansom cabs . 
By which I get my wealth And very gladly will I drink Your Honour's noble health . 
I heard him then , for I had just Completed my design To keep the Menai bridge from rust By boiling it in wine . 
I thanked much for telling me The way he got his wealth , But chiefly for his wish that he Might drink my noble health . 
As the Knight sang the last words of the ballad , he gathered up the reins , and turned his horse's head along the road by which they had come . 
You'll wait and wave your handkerchief when I get to that turn in the road ? I think it'll encourage me , you see . 
Of course I'll wait , said Alice and thank you very much for coming so far and for the song I liked it very much . 
I hope so , the Knight said doubtfully but you didn't cry so much as I thought you would . 
So they shook hands , and then the Knight rode slowly away into the forest . 
It won't take long to see him OFF , I expect , Alice said to herself , as she stood watching him . 
After the fourth or fifth tumble he reached the turn , and then she waved her handkerchief to him , and waited till he was out of sight . 
It was a golden crown . 
CHAPTER IX Queen Alice Well , this IS grand ! said Alice . 
However , there would be no harm , she thought , in asking if the game was over . 
Please , would you tell me she began , looking timidly at the Red Queen . 
Speak when you're spoken to ! The Queen sharply interrupted her . 
Why , don't you see , child here she broke off with a frown , and , after thinking for a minute , suddenly changed the subject of the conversation . 
And the sooner we begin it , the better . 
I only said if ! poor Alice pleaded in a piteous tone . 
Oh , ever so much more than that ! So you did , you know , the Red Queen said to Alice . 
Always speak the truth think before you speak and write it down afterwards . 
I'm sure I didn't mean Alice was beginning , but the Red Queen interrupted her impatiently . 
You couldn't deny that , even if you tried with both hands . 
I don't deny things with my HANDS , Alice objected . 
Nobody said you did , said the Red Queen . 
I said you couldn't if you tried . 
The Red Queen broke the silence by saying to the White Queen , I invite you to Alice's dinner party this afternoon . 
The White Queen smiled feebly , and said And I invite YOU . 
I didn't know I was to have a party at all , said Alice but if there is to be one , I think I ought to invite the guests . 
Lessons teach you to do sums , and things of that sort . 
And you do Addition ? the White Queen asked . 
What's one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one ? I don't know , said Alice . 
She can't do Addition , the Red Queen interrupted . 
Can you do Subtraction ? Take nine from eight . 
Nine from eight I can't , you know , Alice replied very readily but She can't do Subtraction , said the White Queen . 
Can you do Division ? Divide a loaf by a knife what's the answer to that ? I suppose Alice was beginning , but the Red Queen answered for her . 
Bread and butter , of course . 
Take a bone from a dog what remains ? Alice considered . 
I think that's the answer . 
Wrong , as usual , said the Red Queen the dog's temper would remain . 
But I don't see how Why , look here ! the Red Queen cried . 
The dog would lose its temper , wouldn't it ? Perhaps it would , Alice replied cautiously . 
Then if the dog went away , its temper would remain ! the Queen exclaimed triumphantly . 
Alice said , as gravely as she could , They might go different ways . 
But she couldn't help thinking to herself , What dreadful nonsense we ARE talking ! She can't do sums a BIT ! the Queens said together , with great emphasis . 
Can YOU do sums ? Alice said , turning suddenly on the White Queen , for she didn't like being found fault with so much . 
The Queen gasped and shut her eyes . 
I can do Addition , if you give me time but I can do Subtraction , under ANY circumstances ! Of course you know your A B C ? said the Red Queen . 
To be sure I do . 
So do I , the White Queen whispered we'll often say it over together , dear . 
And I'll tell you a secret I can read words of one letter ! Isn't THAT grand ! However , don't be discouraged . 
You'll come to it in time . 
Here the Red Queen began again . 
Can you answer useful questions ? she said . 
How is bread made ? I know THAT ! Alice cried eagerly . 
You take some flour Where do you pick the flower ? the White Queen asked . 
In a garden , or in the hedges ? Well , it isn't PICKED at all , Alice explained it's GROUND How many acres of ground ? said the White Queen . 
You mustn't leave out so many things . 
Fan her head ! the Red Queen anxiously interrupted . 
She'll be feverish after so much thinking . 
So they set to work and fanned her with bunches of leaves , till she had to beg them to leave off , it blew her hair about so . 
She's all right again now , said the Red Queen . 
Do you know Languages ? What's the French for fiddle de dee ? Fiddle de dee's not English , Alice replied gravely . 
Who ever said it was ? said the Red Queen . 
Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time . 
If you'll tell me what language fiddle de dee is , I'll tell you the French for it ! she exclaimed triumphantly . 
But the Red Queen drew herself up rather stiffly , and said Queens never make bargains . 
I wish Queens never asked questions , Alice thought to herself . 
Don't let us quarrel , the White Queen said in an anxious tone . 
I meant the other way . 
It's too late to correct it , said the Red Queen when you've once said a thing , that fixes it , and you must take the consequences . 
In OUR country , she remarked , there's only one day at a time . 
The Red Queen said , That's a poor thin way of doing things . 
Are five nights warmer than one night , then ? Alice ventured to ask . 
Five times as warm , of course . 
But they should be five times as COLD , by the same rule Just so ! cried the Red Queen . 
Five times as warm , AND five times as cold just as I'm five times as rich as you are , AND five times as clever ! Alice sighed and gave it up . 
It's exactly like a riddle with no answer ! she thought . 
Humpty Dumpty saw it too , the White Queen went on in a low voice , more as if she were talking to herself . 
He came to the door with a corkscrew in his hand What did he want ? said the Red Queen . 
He said he WOULD come in , the White Queen went on , because he was looking for a hippopotamus . 
Now , as it happened , there wasn't such a thing in the house , that morning . 
Is there generally ? Alice asked in an astonished tone . 
Well , only on Thursdays , said the Queen . 
I know what he came for , said Alice he wanted to punish the fish , because Here the White Queen began again . 
The White Queen looked timidly at Alice , who felt she OUGHT to say something kind , but really couldn't think of anything at the moment . 
A little kindness and putting her hair in papers would do wonders with her The White Queen gave a deep sigh , and laid her head on Alice's shoulder . 
I AM so sleepy ? she moaned . 
She's tired , poor thing ! said the Red Queen . 
Smooth her hair lend her your nightcap and sing her a soothing lullaby . 
I haven't got a nightcap with me , said Alice , as she tried to obey the first direction and I don't know any soothing lullabies . 
I'm getting sleepy , too . 
In another moment both Queens were fast asleep , and snoring loud . 
Do wake up , you heavy things ! she went on in an impatient tone but there was no answer but a gentle snoring . 
I'll wait till the song's over , thought Alice , and then I'll ring the WHICH bell must I ring ? she went on , very much puzzled by the names . 
I'm not a visitor , and I'm not a servant . 
What is it , now ? the Frog said in a deep hoarse whisper . 
Alice turned round , ready to find fault with anybody . 
Where's the servant whose business it is to answer the door ? she began angrily . 
Which door ? said the Frog . 
Alice almost stamped with irritation at the slow drawl in which he spoke . 
To answer the door ? he said . 
What's it been asking of ? He was so hoarse that Alice could scarcely hear him . 
I don't know what you mean , she said . 
I talks English , doesn't I ? the Frog went on . 
Or are you deaf ? What did it ask you ? Nothing ! Alice said impatiently . 
I've been knocking at it ! Shouldn't do that shouldn't do that the Frog muttered . 
Vexes it , you know . 
Then he went up and gave the door a kick with one of his great feet . 
You let IT alone , he panted out , as he hobbled back to his tree , and it'll let YOU alone , you know . 
Alice sat down in it , rather uncomfortable in the silence , and longing for some one to speak . 
At last the Red Queen began . 
You've missed the soup and fish , she said . 
Put on the joint ! And the waiters set a leg of mutton before Alice , who looked at it rather anxiously , as she had never had to carve a joint before . 
You look a little shy let me introduce you to that leg of mutton , said the Red Queen . 
The leg of mutton got up in the dish and made a little bow to Alice and Alice returned the bow , not knowing whether to be frightened or amused . 
May I give you a slice ? she said , taking up the knife and fork , and looking from one Queen to the other . 
Certainly not , the Red Queen said , very decidedly it isn't etiquette to cut any one you've been introduced to . 
Remove the joint ! And the waiters carried it off , and brought a large plum pudding in its place . 
I won't be introduced to the pudding , please , Alice said rather hastily , or we shall get no dinner at all . 
May I give you some ? But the Red Queen looked sulky , and growled Pudding Alice Alice Pudding . 
Remove the pudding ! and the waiters took it away so quickly that Alice couldn't return its bow . 
What impertinence ! said the Pudding . 
Do you know why they're so fond of fishes , all about here ? She spoke to the Red Queen , whose answer was a little wide of the mark . 
As to fishes , she said , very slowly and solemnly , putting her mouth close to Alice's ear , her White Majesty knows a lovely riddle all in poetry all about fishes . 
Shall she repeat it ? Her Red Majesty's very kind to mention it , the White Queen murmured into Alice's other ear , in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon . 
It would be SUCH a treat ! May I ? Please do , Alice said very politely . 
The White Queen laughed with delight , and stroked Alice's cheek . 
Then she began First , the fish must be caught . 
That is easy a baby , I think , could have caught it . 
Next , the fish must be bought . 
That is easy a penny , I think , would have bought it . 
Now cook me the fish ! That is easy , and will not take more than a minute . 
Let it lie in a dish ! That is easy , because it already is in it . 
Bring it here ! Let me sup ! It is easy to set such a dish on the table . 
scrambled into the dish of roast mutton , and began eagerly lapping up the gravy , just like pigs in a trough ! thought Alice . 
You ought to return thanks in a neat speech , the Red Queen said , frowning at Alice as she spoke . 
We must support you , you know , the White Queen whispered , as Alice got up to do it , very obediently , but a little frightened . 
Thank you very much , she whispered in reply , but I can do quite well without . 
That wouldn't be at all the thing , the Red Queen said very decidedly so Alice tried to submit to it with a good grace . 
Take care of yourself ! screamed the White Queen , seizing Alice's hair with both her hands . 
all sorts of thing happened in a moment . 
The candles all grew up to the ceiling , looking something like a bed of rushes with fireworks at the top . 
There was not a moment to be lost . 
At any other time , Alice would have felt surprised at this , but she was far too much excited to be surprised at anything NOW . 
CHAPTER XII Which Dreamed it ? Your majesty shouldn't purr so loud , Alice said , rubbing her eyes , and addressing the kitten , respectfully , yet with some severity . 
You woke me out of oh ! such a nice dream ! And you've been along with me , Kitty all through the Looking Glass world . 
that , whatever you say to them , they ALWAYS purr . 
Now , Kitty ! she cried , clapping her hands triumphantly . 
Sit up a little more stiffly , dear ! Alice cried with a merry laugh . 
And curtsey while you're thinking what to what to purr . 
It saves time , remember ! And she caught it up and gave it one little kiss , just in honour of having been a Red Queen . 
Tell me , Dinah , did you turn to Humpty Dumpty ? I THINK you did however , you'd better not mention it to your friends just yet , for I'm not sure . 
Autumn frosts have slain July . 
Still she haunts me , phantomwise , Alice moving under skies Never seen by waking eyes . 
Children yet , the tale to hear , Eager eye and willing ear , Lovingly shall nestle near . 
