Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
The reader , to whom modern social institutions and their underlying principles are matters of course , may at times find Dr . 
Leete's explanations of them rather trite but it must be remembered that to Dr . 
Chapter I first saw the light in the city of Boston in the year . 
What ! you say , eighteen fifty seven ? That is an odd slip . 
He means nineteen fifty seven , of course . 
I beg pardon , but there is no mistake . 
Nevertheless I earnestly assure the reader that no imposition is intended , and will undertake , if he shall follow me a few pages , to entirely convince him of this . 
I myself was rich and also educated , and possessed , therefore , all the elements of happiness enjoyed by the most fortunate in that age . 
My parents and grand parents had lived in the same way , and I expected that my descendants , if I had any , would enjoy a like easy existence . 
But how could I live without service to the world ? you ask . 
The sum , you will naturally infer , must have been very large not to have been exhausted in supporting three generations in idleness . 
This , however , was not the fact . 
The sum had been originally by no means large . 
It was , in fact , much larger now that three generations had been supported upon it in idleness , than it was at first . 
The man who had accomplished this , and it was the end all sought , was said to live on the income of his investments . 
To explain at this point how the ancient methods of industry made this possible would delay us too much . 
It must not be supposed that an arrangement which seems so unnatural and preposterous according to modern notions was never criticized by your ancestors . 
It had been the effort of lawgivers and prophets from the earliest ages to abolish interest , or at least to limit it to the smallest possible rate . 
All these efforts had , however , failed , as they necessarily must so long as the ancient social organizations prevailed . 
At the time of which I write , the latter part of the nineteenth century , governments had generally given up trying to regulate the subject at all . 
The driver was hunger , and permitted no lagging , though the pace was necessarily very slow . 
Despite the difficulty of drawing the coach at all along so hard a road , the top was covered with passengers who never got down , even at the steepest ascents . 
These seats on top were very breezy and comfortable . 
Well up out of the dust , their occupants could enjoy the scenery at their leisure , or critically discuss the merits of the straining team . 
But did they think only of themselves ? you ask . 
It had always been as it was , and it always would be so . 
It was a pity , but it could not be helped , and philosophy forbade wasting compassion on what was beyond remedy . 
This seems unaccountable , but , as I once rode on this very coach and shared that very hallucination , I ought to be believed . 
The effect of such a delusion in moderating fellow feeling for the sufferings of the mass of men into a distant and philosophical compassion is obvious . 
To it I refer as the only extenuation I can offer for the indifference which , at the period I write of , marked my own attitude toward the misery of my brothers . 
In I came to my thirtieth year . 
Although still unmarried , I was engaged to wed Edith Bartlett . 
She , like myself , rode on the top of the coach . 
My lady readers , I am aware , will protest at this . 
For it must be understood that the comparative desirability of different parts of Boston for residence depended then , not on natural features , but on the character of the neighboring population . 
Each class or nation lived by itself , in quarters of its own . 
A rich man living among the poor , an educated man among the uneducated , was like one living in isolation among a jealous and alien race . 
When the house had been begun , its completion by the winter of had been expected . 
The spring of the following year found it , however , yet incomplete , and my marriage still a thing of the future . 
What the specific causes of these strikes were I do not remember . 
Strikes had become so common at that period that people had ceased to inquire into their particular grounds . 
In one department of industry or another , they had been nearly incessant ever since the great business crisis of . 
In fact it had come to be the exceptional thing to see any class of laborers pursue their avocation steadily for more than a few months at a time . 
This is all so plain in the retrospect that a child can understand it , but not being prophets , we of that day had no clear idea what was happening to us . 
What we did see was that industrially the country was in a very queer way . 
The relation between the workingman and the employer , between labor and capital , appeared in some unaccountable manner to have become dislocated . 
The less sanguine admitted all this . 
They had the votes and the power to do so if they pleased , and their leaders meant they should . 
Some of these desponding observers went so far as to predict an impending social cataclysm . 
Repeated experiences of this sort in historic and prehistoric times possibly accounted for the puzzling bumps on the human cranium . 
Human history , like all great movements , was cyclical , and returned to the point of beginning . 
The idea of indefinite progress in a right line was a chimera of the imagination , with no analogue in nature . 
The parabola of a comet was perhaps a yet better illustration of the career of humanity . 
Tending upward and sunward from the aphelion of barbarism , the race attained the perihelion of civilization only to plunge downward once more to its nether goal in the regions of chaos . 
This , of course , was an extreme opinion , but I remember serious men among my acquaintances who , in discussing the signs of the times , adopted a very similar tone . 
It was no doubt the common opinion of thoughtful men that society was approaching a critical period which might result in great changes . 
The labor troubles , their causes , course , and cure , took lead of all other topics in the public prints , and in serious conversation . 
As one of the wealthy , with a large stake in the existing order of things , I naturally shared the apprehensions of my class . 
Chapter The thirtieth day of May , , fell on a Monday . 
The eldest brother of Edith Bartlett had fallen in the war , and on Decoration Day the family was in the habit of making a visit to Mount Auburn , where he lay . 
I had asked permission to make one of the party , and , on our return to the city at nightfall , remained to dine with the family of my betrothed . 
It was agreed that affairs were going from bad to worse very fast , and that there was no telling what we should come to soon . 
The worst of it , I remember Mrs. Bartlett's saying , is that the working classes all over the world seem to be going crazy at once . 
In Europe it is far worse even than here . 
I'm sure I should not dare to live there at all . 
I asked Mr. Bartlett the other day where we should emigrate to if all the terrible things took place which those socialists threaten . 
He said he did not know any place now where society could be called stable except Greenland , Patago nia , and the Chinese Empire . 
Those Chinamen knew what they were about , somebody added , when they refused to let in our western civilization . 
They knew what it would lead to better than we did . 
They saw it was nothing but dynamite in disguise . 
She was remarkably handsome that evening , the mourning costume that she wore in recognition of the day setting off to great advantage the purity of her complexion . 
I can see her even now with my mind's eye just as she looked that night . 
When I took my leave she followed me into the hall and I kissed her good by as usual . 
There was no circumstance out of the common to distinguish this parting from previous occasions when we had bade each other good by for a night or a day . 
There was absolutely no premonition in my mind , or I am sure in hers , that this was more than an ordinary separation . 
Ah , well ! The hour at which I had left my betrothed was a rather early one for a lover , but the fact was no reflection on my devotion . 
I was a confirmed sufferer from insomnia , and although otherwise perfectly well had been completely fagged out that day , from having slept scarcely at all the two previous nights . 
Edith knew this and had insisted on sending me home by nine o'clock , with strict orders to go to bed at once . 
The house in which I lived had been occupied by three generations of the family of which I was the only living representative in the direct line . 
It was not a house to which I could think of bringing a bride , much less so dainty a one as Edith Bartlett . 
I had advertised it for sale , and meanwhile merely used it for sleeping purposes , dining at my club . 
One servant , a faithful colored man by the name of Sawyer , lived with me and attended to my few wants . 
One feature of the house I expected to miss greatly when I should leave it , and this was the sleeping chamber which I had built under the foundations . 
I could not have slept in the city at all , with its never ceasing nightly noises , if I had been obliged to use an upstairs chamber . 
But to this subterranean room no murmur from the upper world ever penetrated . 
When I had entered it and closed the door , I was surrounded by the silence of the tomb . 
In order to prevent the dampness of the subsoil from penetrating the chamber , the walls had been laid in hydraulic cement and were very thick , and the floor was likewise protected . 
A small pipe , communicating with a wind mill on the top of the house , insured the renewal of air . 
So accustomed was I to wakefulness that I minded little the loss of one night's rest . 
From this statement it will be inferred that I had at my command some artificial means for inducing sleep in the last resort , and so in fact I had . 
If after two sleepless nights I found myself on the approach of the third without sensations of drowsiness , I called in Dr . 
He was a doctor by courtesy only , what was called in those days an irregular or quack doctor . 
He called himself a Professor of Animal Magnetism . 
I had come across him in the course of some amateur investigations into the phenomena of animal magnetism . 
I don't think he knew anything about medicine , but he was certainly a remarkable mesmerist . 
It was for the purpose of being put to sleep by his manipulations that I used to send for him when I found a third night of sleeplessness impending . 
Let my nervous excitement or mental preoccupation be however great , Dr . 
Pillsbury never failed , after a short time , to leave me in a deep slumber , which continued till I was aroused by a reversal of the mesmerizing process . 
The process for awaking the sleeper was much simpler than that for putting him to sleep , and for convenience I had made Dr Pillsbury teach Sawyer how to do it . 
My faithful servant alone knew for what purpose Dr . 
Pillsbury visited me , or that he did so at all . 
Of course , when Edith became my wife I should have to tell her my secrets . 
I had not hitherto told her this , because there was unquestionably a slight risk in the mesmeric sleep , and I knew she would set her face against my practice . 
The risk , of course , was that it might become too profound and pass into a trance beyond the mesmerizer's power to break , ending in death . 
Repeated experiments had fully convinced me that the risk was next to nothing if reasonable precautions were exercised , and of this I hoped , though doubtingly , to convince Edith . 
I went directly home after leaving her , and at once sent Sawyer to fetch Dr . 
One of them was from the builder of my new house , and confirmed what I had inferred from the newspaper item . 
The new strikes , he said , had postponed indefinitely the completion of the contract , as neither masters nor workmen would concede the point at issue without a long struggle . 
The return of Sawyer with the doctor interrupted my gloomy meditations . 
It appeared that he had with difficulty been able to secure his services , as he was preparing to leave the city that very night . 
The doctor explained that since he had seen me last he had learned of a fine professional opening in a distant city , and decided to take prompt advantage of it . 
Owing , perhaps , to my unusually nervous state , I was slower than common in losing consciousness , but at length a delicious drowsiness stole over me . 
Chapter He is going to open his eyes . 
He had better see but one of us at first . 
Promise me , then , that you will not tell him . 
The first voice was a man's , the second a woman's , and both spoke in whispers . 
I will see how he seems , replied the man . 
No , no , promise me , persisted the other . 
Let her have her way , whispered a third voice , also a woman . 
Well , well , I promise , then , answered the man . 
Quick , go ! He is coming out of it . 
There was a rustle of garments and I opened my eyes . 
A fine looking man of perhaps sixty was bending over me , an expression of much benevolence mingled with great curiosity upon his features . 
He was an utter stranger . 
I raised myself on an elbow and looked around . 
I certainly had never been in it before , or one furnished like it . 
I looked back at my companion . 
How do you feel ? he inquired . 
Where am I ? I demanded . 
You are in my house , was the reply . 
How came I here ? We will talk about that when you are stronger . 
Meanwhile , I beg you will feel no anxiety . 
You are among friends and in good hands . 
How do you feel ? A bit queerly , I replied , but I am well , I suppose . 
There will be time enough for explanations later , my unknown host replied , with a reassuring smile . 
It will be better to avoid agitating talk until you are a little more yourself . 
Will you oblige me by taking a couple of swallows of this mixture ? It will do you good . 
I repelled the glass with my hand and sat up on the couch , although with an effort , for my head was strangely light . 
I insist upon knowing at once where I am and what you have been doing with me , I said . 
My dear sir , responded my companion , let me beg that you will not agitate yourself . 
I thereupon drank what he offered me . 
Then he said , It is not so simple a matter as you evidently suppose to tell you how you came here . 
You can tell me quite as much on that point as I can tell you . 
You have just been roused from a deep sleep , or , more properly , trance . 
So much I can tell you . 
You say you were in your own house when you fell into that sleep . 
May I ask you when that was ? When ? I replied , when ? Why , last evening , of course , at about ten o'clock . 
I left my man Sawyer orders to call me at nine o'clock . 
Great heavens ! that cannot be possible and yet I have an odd sensation of having slept a long time . 
It was Decoration Day that I went to sleep . 
Decoration Day ? Yes , Monday , the th . 
Pardon me , the th of what ? Why , of this month , of course , unless I have slept into June , but that can't be . 
September ! You don't mean that I've slept since May ! God in heaven ! Why , it is incredible . 
We shall see , replied my companion you say that it was May th when you went to sleep ? Yes . 
May I ask of what year ? I stared blankly at him , incapable of speech , for some moments . 
Of what year ? I feebly echoed at last . 
Yes , of what year , if you please ? After you have told me that I shall be able to tell you how long you have slept . 
It was the year , I said . 
My companion insisted that I should take another draught from the glass , and felt my pulse . 
No doubt , then , you have yourself made the observation that nothing in this world can be truly said to be more wonderful than anything else . 
The causes of all phenomena are equally adequate , and the results equally matters of course . 
That you should be startled by what I shall tell you is to be expected but I am confident that you will not permit it to affect your equanimity unduly . 
Feeling partially dazed , I drank a cup of some sort of broth at my companion's suggestion , and , immediately afterward becoming very drowsy , went off into a deep sleep . 
When I awoke it was broad daylight in the room , which had been lighted artificially when I was awake before . 
My mysterious host was sitting near . 
My giddiness was all gone , and my mind perfectly clear . 
Half expecting to catch a glimpse of some familiar face grinning from behind a chair or curtain , I looked carefully about the room . 
When my eyes next rested on my companion , he was looking at me . 
You have had a fine nap of twelve hours , he said briskly , and I can see that it has done you good . 
Your color is good and your eyes are bright . 
How do you feel ? I never felt better , I said , sitting up . 
You will admit , I said , with an ironical smile , that the story was rather an improbable one . 
Extraordinary , I admit , he responded , but given the proper conditions , not improbable nor inconsistent with what we know of the trance state . 
When complete , as in your case , the vital functions are absolutely suspended , and there is no waste of the tissues . 
No limit can be set to the possible duration of a trance when the external conditions protect the body from physical injury . 
I had to admit that , if I were indeed the victim of a practical joke , its authors had chosen an admirable agent for carrying out their imposition . 
The impressive and even eloquent manner of this man would have lent dignity to an argument that the moon was made of cheese . 
The smile with which I had regarded him as he advanced his trance hypothesis did not appear to confuse him in the slightest degree . 
Perhaps , I said , you will go on and favor me with some particulars as to the circumstances under which you discovered this chamber of which you speak , and its contents . 
In this case , was the grave reply , no fiction could be so strange as the truth . 
Last Thursday the excava tion for the cellar was at last begun . 
It was completed by that night , and Friday the masons were to have come . 
Thursday night we had a tremendous deluge of rain , and Friday morning I found my cellar a frog pond and the walls quite washed down . 
My daughter , who had come out to view the disaster with me , called my attention to a corner of masonry laid bare by the crumbling away of one of the walls . 
I cleared a little earth from it , and , finding that it seemed part of a large mass , determined to investigate it . 
The workmen I sent for unearthed an oblong vault some eight feet below the surface , and set in the corner of what had evidently been the foundation walls of an ancient house . 
A layer of ashes and charcoal on the top of the vault showed that the house above had perished by fire . 
The vault itself was perfectly intact , the cement being as good as when first applied . 
It had a door , but this we could not force , and found entrance by removing one of the flagstones which formed the roof . 
The air which came up was stagnant but pure , dry and not cold . 
Descending with a lantern , I found myself in an apartment fitted up as a bedroom in the style of the nineteenth century . 
On the bed lay a young man . 
That the art of such embalming as this had ever been known we should not have believed , yet here seemed conclusive testimony that our immediate ancestors had possessed it . 
My medical colleagues , whose curiosity was highly excited , were at once for undertaking experiments to test the nature of the process employed , but I withheld them . 
No sooner , however , had they left me , than I set on foot a systematic attempt at resuscitation , of which you know the result . 
I rose and went up to it . 
At this , the colossal character of the fraud which was being attempted on me , came over me afresh . 
Indignation mastered my mind as I realized the outrageous liberty that had been taken . 
That should not amaze you . 
It is by virtue of the total arrest of the vital functions that you have survived this great period of time . 
If your body could have undergone any change during your trance , it would long ago have suffered dissolution . 
Spare me any more of this elaborate nonsense and once for all tell me whether you refuse to give me an intelligible account of where I am and how I came here . 
If so , I shall proceed to ascertain my whereabouts for myself , whoever may hinder . 
You do not , then , believe that this is the year ? Do you really think it necessary to ask me that ? I returned . 
Very well , replied my extraordinary host . 
Since I cannot convince you , you shall convince yourself . 
He led the way up two flights of stairs and then up a shorter one , which landed us upon a belvedere on the house top . 
Be pleased to look around you , he said , as we reached the platform , and tell me if this is the Boston of the nineteenth century . 
At my feet lay a great city . 
Every quarter contained large open squares filled with trees , among which statues glistened and fountains flashed in the late afternoon sun . 
Public buildings of a colossal size and an architectural grandeur unparalleled in my day raised their stately piles on every side . 
Surely I had never seen this city nor one comparable to it before . 
Raising my eyes at last towards the horizon , I looked westward . 
I knew then that I had been told the truth concerning the prodigious thing which had befallen me . 
I think you are going to be all right now , he said cheerily . 
I remembered that the Bostonians of your day were famous pugilists , and thought best to lose no time . 
I take it you are now ready to acquit me of the charge of hoaxing you . 
Only a century has passed , he answered , but many a millennium in the world's history has seen changes less extraordinary . 
My name is Leete , Dr . 
My name , I said as I shook his hand , is Julian West . 
I am most happy in making your acquaintance , Mr. West , he responded . 
Seeing that this house is built on the site of your own , I hope you will find it easy to make yourself at home in it . 
Leete offered me a bath and a change of clothing , of which I gladly availed myself . 
Physically , I was now myself again . 
But mentally , how was it with me , the reader will doubtless wonder . 
What were my intellectual sensations , he may wish to know , on finding myself so suddenly dropped as it were into a new world . 
In reply let me ask him to suppose himself suddenly , in the twinkling of an eye , transported from earth , say , to Paradise or Hades . 
The impressions of amazement and curiosity which my new surroundings produced occupied my mind , after the first shock , to the exclusion of all other thoughts . 
For the time the memory of my former life was , as it were , in abeyance . 
To speak of small things before great , I responded , I really think that the complete absence of chimneys and their smoke is the detail that first impressed me . 
Ah ! ejaculated my companion with an air of much interest , I had forgotten the chimneys , it is so long since they went out of use . 
It is nearly a century since the crude method of combustion on which you depended for heat became obsolete . 
In general , I said , what impresses me most about the city is the material prosperity on the part of the people which its magnificence implies . 
I would give a great deal for just one glimpse of the Boston of your day , replied Dr . 
No doubt , as you imply , the cities of that period were rather shabby affairs . 
Moreover , the excessive individualism which then prevailed was inconsistent with much public spirit . 
What little wealth you had seems almost wholly to have been lavished in private luxury . 
Nowadays , on the contrary , there is no destination of the surplus wealth so popular as the adornment of the city , which all enjoy in equal degree . 
The sun had been setting as we returned to the house top , and as we talked night descended upon the city . 
It is growing dark , said Dr . 
Let us descend into the house I want to introduce my wife and daughter to you . 
Feminine softness and delicacy were in this lovely creature deliciously combined with an appearance of health and abounding physical vitality too often lacking in the maidens with whom alone I could compare her . 
It was a coincidence trifling in comparison with the general strangeness of the situation , but still striking , that her name should be Edith . 
The evening that followed was certainly unique in the history of social intercourse , but to suppose that our conversation was peculiarly strained or difficult would be a great mistake . 
I know at any rate that my intercourse that evening with these representatives of another age and world was marked by an ingenuous sincerity and frankness such as but rarely crown long acquaintance . 
No doubt the exquisite tact of my entertainers had much to do with this . 
One would have supposed that they were quite in the habit of entertaining waifs from another century , so perfect was their tact . 
For my own part , never do I remember the operations of my mind to have been more alert and acute than that evening , or my intellectual sensibilities more keen . 
Within a block of my home in the old Boston I could have found social circles vastly more foreign to me . 
It was evident that I had excited her interest to an extraordinary degree , as was not astonishing , supposing her to be a girl of imagination . 
Though I supposed curiosity was the chief motive of her interest , it could but affect me as it would not have done had she been less beautiful . 
Leete , as well as the ladies , seemed greatly interested in my account of the circumstances under which I had gone to sleep in the underground chamber . 
The layer of ashes found above the chamber indicated that the house had been burned down . 
Let it be supposed that the conflagration had taken place the night I fell asleep . 
It only remains to assume that Sawyer lost his life in the fire or by some accident connected with it , and the rest follows naturally enough . 
No one but he and Dr . 
Pillsbury either knew of the existence of the chamber or that I was in it , and Dr . 
Pillsbury , who had gone that night to New Orleans , had probably never heard of the fire at all . 
The conclusion of my friends , and of the public , must have been that I had perished in the flames . 
An excavation of the ruins , unless thorough , would not have disclosed the recess in the foundation walls connecting with my chamber . 
The size of the trees in the garden now occupying the site indicated , Dr . 
Leete said , that for more than half a century at least it had been open ground . 
Chapter When , in the course of the evening the ladies retired , leaving Dr . 
I am a late bird , myself , he said , and , without suspicion of flattery , I may say that a companion more interesting than yourself could scarcely be imagined . 
It is decidedly not often that one has a chance to converse with a man of the nineteenth century . 
Now I had been looking forward all the evening with some dread to the time when I should be alone , on retiring for the night . 
Surrounded by these most friendly strangers , stimulated and supported by their sympathetic interest , I had been able to keep my mental balance . 
Next morning , no doubt , I would awake with the feeling of an old citizen . 
Before I acquired that , I replied , I must know a little more about the sort of Boston I have come back to . 
With the city before me I could well believe that , but I am very curious to know what some of the changes have been . 
It is well worth sleeping a hundred years to learn what the right answer was , if , indeed , you have found it yet . 
As no such thing as the labor question is known nowadays , replied Dr . 
Leete , and there is no way in which it could arise , I suppose we may claim to have solved it . 
Society would indeed have fully deserved being devoured if it had failed to answer a riddle so entirely simple . 
In fact , to speak by the book , it was not necessary for society to solve the riddle at all . 
It may be said to have solved itself . 
The solution came as the result of a process of industrial evolution which could not have terminated otherwise . 
All that society had to do was to recognize and cooperate with that evolution , when its tendency had become unmistakable . 
I can only say , I answered , that at the time I fell asleep no such evolution had been recognized . 
It was in that you fell into this sleep , I think you said . 
Yes , May th , . 
My companion regarded me musingly for some moments . 
We did , indeed , fully realize that , I replied . 
We felt that society was dragging anchor and in danger of going adrift . 
Whither it would drift nobody could say , but all feared the rocks . 
Leete , the set of the current was perfectly perceptible if you had but taken pains to observe it , and it was not toward the rocks , but toward a deeper channel . 
We had a popular proverb , I replied , that hindsight is better than foresight , the force of which I shall now , no doubt , appreciate more fully than ever . 
Leete had listened to me with close attention and nodded thoughtfully as I finished speaking . 
You have not yet told me what was the answer to the riddle which you found , I said . 
I am impatient to know by what contradiction of natural sequence the peace and prosperity which you now seem to enjoy could have been the outcome of an era like my own . 
Excuse me , replied my host , but do you smoke ? It was not till our cigars were lighted and drawing well that he resumed . 
The Bostonians of your day had the reputation of being great askers of questions , and I am going to show my descent by asking you one to begin with . 
What should you name as the most prominent feature of the labor troubles of your day ? Why , the strikes , of course , I replied . 
Exactly but what made the strikes so formidable ? The great labor organizations . 
And what was the motive of these great organizations ? The workmen claimed they had to organize to get their rights from the big corporations , I replied . 
That is just it , said Dr . 
Leete the organization of labor and the strikes were an effect , merely , of the concentration of capital in greater masses than had ever been known before . 
Labor unions were needless then , and general strikes out of the question . 
But when the era of small concerns with small capital was succeeded by that of the great aggregations of capital , all this was changed . 
Self defense drove him to union with his fellows . 
The records of the period show that the outcry against the concentration of capital was furious . 
Men believed that it threatened society with a form of tyranny more abhorrent than it had ever endured . 
Meanwhile , without being in the smallest degree checked by the clamor against it , the absorption of business by ever larger monopolies continued . 
The railroads had gone on combining till a few great syndicates controlled every rail in the land . 
In manufactories , every important staple was controlled by a syndicate . 
These syndicates , pools , trusts , or whatever their name , fixed prices and crushed all competition except when combinations as vast as themselves arose . 
Then a struggle , resulting in a still greater consolidation , ensued . 
To restore the former order of things , even if possible , would have involved returning to the day of stagecoaches . 
Early in the last century the evolution was completed by the final consolidation of the entire capital of the nation . 
The epoch of trusts had ended in The Great Trust . 
Such a stupendous change as you describe , said I , did not , of course , take place without great bloodshed and terrible convulsions . 
On the contrary , replied Dr . 
Leete , there was absolutely no violence . 
The change had been long foreseen . 
Public opinion had become fully ripe for it , and the whole mass of the people was behind it . 
There was no more possibility of opposing it by force than by argument . 
Fifty years before , the consolidation of the industries of the country under national control would have seemed a very daring experiment to the most sanguine . 
But by a series of object lessons , seen and studied by all men , the great corporations had taught the people an entirely new set of ideas on this subject . 
Leete ceased speaking , and I remained silent , endeavoring to form some general conception of the changes in the arrangements of society implied in the tremendous revolution which he had described . 
Finally I said , The idea of such an extension of the functions of government is , to say the least , rather overwhelming . 
And , in heaven's name , who are the public enemies ? exclaimed Dr . 
Not even for the best ends would men now allow their governments such powers as were then used for the most maleficent . 
We should have thought that no arrangement could be worse than to entrust the politicians with control of the wealth producing machinery of the country . 
Its material interests were quite too much the football of parties as it was . 
No doubt you were right , rejoined Dr . 
Leete , but all that is changed now . 
We have no parties or politicians , and as for demagoguery and corruption , they are words having only an historical significance . 
Human nature itself must have changed very much , I said . 
Not at all , was Dr . 
Leete's reply , but the conditions of human life have changed , and with them the motives of human action . 
The organization of society with you was such that officials were under a constant temptation to misuse their power for the private profit of themselves or others . 
Under such circumstances it seems almost strange that you dared entrust them with any of your affairs . 
Let him be as bad an official as you please , he cannot be a corrupt one . 
There is no motive to be . 
The social system no longer offers a premium on dishonesty . 
But these are matters which you can only understand as you come , with time , to know us better . 
But you have not yet told me how you have settled the labor problem . 
It is the problem of capital which we have been discussing , I said . 
After the nation had assumed conduct of the mills , machinery , railroads , farms , mines , and capital in general of the country , the labor question still remained . 
In assuming the responsibilities of capital the nation had assumed the difficulties of the capitalist's position . 
The moment the nation assumed the responsibilities of capital those difficulties vanished , replied Dr . 
The national organization of labor under one direction was the complete solution of what was , in your day and under your system , justly regarded as the insoluble labor problem . 
When the nation became the sole employer , all the citizens , by virtue of their citizenship , became employees , to be distributed according to the needs of industry . 
That is , I suggested , you have simply applied the principle of universal military service , as it was understood in our day , to the labor question . 
Leete , that was something which followed as a matter of course as soon as the nation had become the sole capitalist . 
Service , now , I suppose , is compulsory upon all , I suggested . 
It is rather a matter of course than of compulsion , replied Dr . 
It is regarded as so absolutely natural and reasonable that the idea of its being compulsory has ceased to be thought of . 
He would be thought to be an incredibly contemptible person who should need compulsion in such a case . 
Nevertheless , to speak of service being compulsory would be a weak way to state its absolute inevitableness . 
He would have excluded himself from the world , cut himself off from his kind , in a word , committed suicide . 
Is the term of service in this industrial army for life ? Oh , no it both begins later and ends earlier than the average working period in your day . 
The period of industrial service is twenty four years , beginning at the close of the course of education at twenty one and terminating at forty five . 
It is the great day of the year with us , whence we reckon all other events , our Olympiad , save that it is annual . 
Soldiers have all the same thing , and a very simple thing , to do , namely , to practice the manual of arms , to march and stand guard . 
But the industrial army must learn and follow two or three hundred diverse trades and avocations . 
What administrative talent can be equal to determining wisely what trade or business every individual in a great nation shall pursue ? The administration has nothing to do with determining that point . 
Who does determine it , then ? I asked . 
Every man for himself in accordance with his natural aptitude , the utmost pains being taken to enable him to find out what his natural aptitude really is . 
As an individual's satisfaction during his term of service depends on his having an occupation to his taste , parents and teachers watch from early years for indications of special aptitudes in children . 
A thorough study of the National industrial system , with the history and rudiments of all the great trades , is an essential part of our educational system . 
Our schools are constantly visiting our workshops , and often are taken on long excursions to inspect particular industrial enterprises . 
Surely , I said , it can hardly be that the number of volunteers for any trade is exactly the number needed in that trade . 
It must be generally either under or over the demand . 
The supply of volunteers is always expected to fully equal the demand , replied Dr . 
It is the business of the administration to see that this is the case . 
The rate of volunteering for each trade is closely watched . 
If there be a noticeably greater excess of volunteers over men needed in any trade , it is inferred that the trade offers greater attractions than others . 
On the other hand , if the number of volunteers for a trade tends to drop below the demand , it is inferred that it is thought more arduous . 
This is done by making the hours of labor in different trades to differ according to their arduousness . 
The lighter trades , prosecuted under the most agreeable circumstances , have in this way the longest hours , while an arduous trade , such as mining , has very short hours . 
There is no theory , no a priori rule , by which the respective attractiveness of industries is determined . 
The principle is that no man's work ought to be , on the whole , harder for him than any other man's for him , the workers themselves to be the judges . 
There are no limits to the application of this rule . 
If , even then , no man was willing to do it , it would remain undone . 
Our young men are very greedy of honor , and do not let slip such opportunities . 
Of course you will see that dependence on the purely voluntary choice of avocations involves the abolition in all of anything like unhygienic conditions or special peril to life and limb . 
Health and safety are conditions common to all industries . 
The nation does not maim and slaughter its workmen by thousands , as did the private capitalists and corporations of your day . 
When there are more who want to enter a particular trade than there is room for , how do you decide between the applicants ? I inquired . 
Preference is given to those who have acquired the most knowledge of the trade they wish to follow . 
No man , however , who through successive years remains persistent in his desire to show what he can do at any particular trade , is in the end denied an opportunity . 
This principle of secondary choices as to occupation is quite important in our system . 
Generally , however , all needs of this sort can be met by details from the class of unskilled or common laborers . 
How is this class of common laborers recruited ? I asked . 
Surely nobody voluntarily enters that . 
It is the grade to which all new recruits belong for the first three years of their service . 
These three years of stringent discipline none are exempt from , and very glad our young men are to pass from this severe school into the comparative liberty of the trades . 
Having once elected and entered on a trade or occupation , I remarked , I suppose he has to stick to it the rest of his life . 
Not necessarily , replied Dr . 
In this case his application is received just as if he were volunteering for the first time , and on the same terms . 
We find that the number of men who wish to abandon an accustomed occupation for a new one , and old friends and associations for strange ones , is small . 
It is only the poorer sort of workmen who desire to change even as frequently as our regulations permit . 
Of course transfers or discharges , when health demands them , are always given . 
Of course you can't get along without the brain workers . 
How , then , are they selected from those who are to serve as farmers and mechanics ? That must require a very delicate sort of sifting process , I should say . 
So it does , replied Dr . 
Leete the most delicate possible test is needed here , and so we leave the question whether a man shall be a brain or hand worker entirely to him to settle . 
The schools of technology , of medicine , of art , of music , of histrionics , and of higher liberal learning are always open to aspirants without condition . 
Are not the schools flooded with young men whose only motive is to avoid work ? Dr . 
Leete smiled a little grimly . 
No one is at all likely to enter the professional schools for the purpose of avoiding work , I assure you , he said . 
Our schools are national institutions , and to have passed their tests is a proof of special abilities not to be questioned . 
In your day young men had to choose their professions very young , and therefore , in a large proportion of instances , wholly mistook their vocations . 
It is an extraordinary thing , I said , that you should not yet have said a word about the method of adjusting wages . 
Since the nation is the sole employer , the government must fix the rate of wages and determine just how much everybody shall earn , from the doctors to the diggers . 
All I can say is , that this plan would never have worked with us , and I don't see how it can now unless human nature has changed . 
In my day , nobody was satisfied with his wages or salary . 
Even if he felt he received enough , he was sure his neighbor had too much , which was as bad . 
Very true , very true , he said , a general strike would most probably have followed the first pay day , and a strike directed against a government is a revolution . 
How , then , do you avoid a revolution every pay day ? if demanded . 
Neither one nor the other , however , is , was my host's laughing response . 
It is after three o'clock . 
The prescription is , no doubt , a wise one , I said I only hope it can be filled . 
Chapter When I awoke I felt greatly refreshed , and lay a considerable time in a dozing state , enjoying the sensation of bodily comfort . 
Dreamily I reviewed the incidents of Decoration Day , my trip in company with Edith and her parents to Mount Auburn , and my dining with them on our return to the city . 
The chagrin which this recollection brought with it effectually roused me . 
But no clock met my glance , and what was more , I instantly perceived that I was not in my room . 
Starting up on my couch , I stared wildly round the strange apartment . 
I think it must have been many seconds that I sat up thus in bed staring about , without being able to regain the clew to my personal identity . 
Strange that the sense of this inability should be such anguish ! but so we are constituted . 
There are no words for the mental torture I endured during this helpless , eyeless groping for myself in a boundless void . 
I trust I may never know what it is again . 
I do not know how long this condition had lasted it seemed an interminable time when , like a flash , the recollection of everything came back to me . 
Leaping from bed , I stood in the middle of the room clasping my temples with all my might between my hands to keep them from bursting . 
Then I fell prone on the couch , and , burying my face in the pillow , lay without motion . 
The reaction which was inevitable , from the mental elation , the fever of the intellect that had been the first effect of my tremendous experience , had arrived . 
There were no rallying points , nothing was left stable . 
There only remained the will , and was any human will strong enough to say to such a weltering sea , Peace , be still ? I dared not think . 
Every effort to reason upon what had befallen me , and realize what it implied , set up an intolerable swimming of the brain . 
The idea that I was two persons , that my identity was double , began to fascinate me with its simple solution of my experience . 
I knew that I was on the verge of losing my mental balance . 
If I lay there thinking , I was doomed . 
Diversion of some sort I must have , at least the diversion of physical exertion . 
I sprang up , and , hastily dressing , opened the door of my room and went down stairs . 
The hour was very early , it being not yet fairly light , and I found no one in the lower part of the house . 
For two hours I walked or ran through the streets of the city , visiting most quarters of the peninsular part of the town . 
Viewed from the house top the day before , the city had indeed appeared strange to me , but that was only in its general aspect . 
How complete the change had been I first realized now that I walked the streets . 
The few old landmarks which still remained only intensified this effect , for without them I might have imagined myself in a foreign town . 
A man may leave his native city in childhood , and return fifty years later , perhaps , to find it transformed in many features . 
He is astonished , but he is not bewildered . 
He is aware of a great lapse of time , and of changes likewise occurring in himself meanwhile . 
He but dimly recalls the city as he knew it when a child . 
But remember that there was no sense of any lapse of time with me . 
There was nothing I saw which was not blurred in this way , like the faces of a composite photograph . 
Finally , I stood again at the door of the house from which I had come out . 
My feet must have instinctively brought me back to the site of my old home , for I had no clear idea of returning thither . 
Throwing myself into a chair , I covered my burning eyeballs with my hands to shut out the horror of strangeness . 
My mental confusion was so intense as to produce actual nausea . 
The anguish of those moments , during which my brain seemed melting , or the abjectness of my sense of helplessness , how can I describe ? In my despair I groaned aloud . 
I began to feel that unless some help should come I was about to lose my mind . 
And just then it did come . 
I heard the rustle of drapery , and looked up . 
Edith Leete was standing before me . 
Her beautiful face was full of the most poignant sympathy . 
Oh , what is the matter , Mr. West ? she said . 
I was here when you came in . 
I saw how dreadfully distressed you looked , and when I heard you groan , I could not keep silent . 
What has happened to you ? Where have you been ? Can't I do something for you ? Perhaps she involuntarily held out her hands in a gesture of compassion as she spoke . 
As I looked up into her compassionate face and her eyes moist with pity , my brain ceased to whirl . 
The tender human sympathy which thrilled in the soft pressure of her fingers had brought me the support I needed . 
Its effect to calm and soothe was like that of some wonder working elixir . 
God bless you , I said , after a few moments . 
He must have sent you to me just now . 
I think I was in danger of going crazy if you had not come . 
At this the tears came into her eyes . 
Oh , Mr. West ! she cried . 
How heartless you must have thought us ! How could we leave you to yourself so long ! But it is over now , is it not ? You are better , surely . 
Yes , I said , thanks to you . 
If you will not go away quite yet , I shall be myself soon . 
Indeed I will not go away , she said , with a little quiver of her face , more expressive of her sympathy than a volume of words . 
You must not think us so heartless as we seemed in leaving you so by yourself . 
I scarcely slept last night , for thinking how strange your waking would be this morning but father said you would sleep till late . 
You have indeed made me feel that , I answered . 
While I held her hands and kept my eyes on her face , I could already even jest a little at my plight . 
No one thought of such a thing as your going out in the city alone so early in the morning , she went on . 
I can think a little what this feeling must have been like , she said . 
It must have been terrible . 
And to think you were left alone to struggle with it ! Can you ever forgive us ? But it is gone now . 
You have driven it quite away for the present , I said . 
You will not let it return again , she queried anxiously . 
I can't quite say that , I replied . 
It might be too early to say that , considering how strange everything will still be to me . 
But you will not try to contend with it alone again , at least , she persisted . 
Promise that you will come to us , and let us sympathize with you , and try to help you . 
Perhaps we can't do much , but it will surely be better than to try to bear such feelings alone . 
I will come to you if you will let me , I said . 
Oh yes , yes , I beg you will , she said eagerly . 
I would do anything to help you that I could . 
All you need do is to be sorry for me , as you seem to be now , I replied . 
It is understood , then , she said , smiling with wet eyes , that you are to come and tell me next time , and not run all over Boston among strangers . 
This assumption that we were not strangers seemed scarcely strange , so near within these few minutes had my trouble and her sympathetic tears brought us . 
Your stroll could scarcely have failed to be a very interesting one , said Mrs. Leete , as we sat down to table soon after . 
You must have seen a good many new things . 
I saw very little that was not new , I replied . 
But I think what surprised me as much as anything was not to find any stores on Washington Street , or any banks on State . 
We have simply dispensed with them . 
Their functions are obsolete in the modern world . 
Who sells you things when you want to buy them ? I inquired . 
There is neither selling nor buying nowadays the distribution of goods is effected in another way . 
As to the bankers , having no money we have no use for those gentry . 
Miss Leete , said I , turning to Edith , I am afraid that your father is making sport of me . 
I don't blame him , for the temptation my innocence offers must be extraordinary . 
But , really , there are limits to my credulity as to possible alterations in the social system . 
Father has no idea of jesting , I am sure , she replied , with a reassuring smile . 
I do not at once see how that follows , I replied . 
It is very simple , said Dr . 
When innumerable different and independent persons produced the various things needful to life and comfort , endless exchanges between individuals were requisite in order that they might supply themselves with what they desired . 
These exchanges constituted trade , and money was essential as their medium . 
But as soon as the nation became the sole producer of all sorts of commodities , there was no need of exchanges between individuals that they might get what they required . 
Everything was procurable from one source , and nothing could be procured anywhere else . 
A system of direct distribution from the national storehouses took the place of trade , and for this money was unnecessary . 
How is this distribution managed ? I asked . 
On the simplest possible plan , replied Dr . 
This arrangement , you will see , totally obviates the necessity for business transactions of any sort between individuals and consumers . 
Perhaps you would like to see what our credit cards are like . 
You observe , he pursued as I was curiously examining the piece of pasteboard he gave me , that this card is issued for a certain number of dollars . 
We have kept the old word , but not the substance . 
The term , as we use it , answers to no real thing , but merely serves as an algebraical symbol for comparing the values of products with one another . 
For this purpose they are all priced in dollars and cents , just as in your day . 
The value of what I procure on this card is checked off by the clerk , who pricks out of these tiers of squares the price of what I order . 
If you wanted to buy something of your neighbor , could you transfer part of your credit to him as consideration ? I inquired . 
In the first place , replied Dr . 
Leete , our neighbors have nothing to sell us , but in any event our credit would not be transferable , being strictly personal . 
It would have been reason enough , had there been no other , for abolishing money , that its possession was no indication of rightful title to it . 
In the hands of the man who had stolen it or murdered for it , it was as good as in those which had earned it by industry . 
According to our ideas , buying and selling is essentially anti social in all its tendencies . 
What if you have to spend more than your card in any one year ? I asked . 
The provision is so ample that we are more likely not to spend it all , replied Dr . 
Of course if a man showed himself a reckless spendthrift he would receive his allowance monthly or weekly instead of yearly , or if necessary not be permitted to handle it all . 
If you don't spend your allowance , I suppose it accumulates ? That is also permitted to a certain extent when a special outlay is anticipated . 
Such a system does not encourage saving habits on the part of citizens , I said . 
It is not intended to , was the reply . 
The nation is rich , and does not wish the people to deprive themselves of any good thing . 
In your day , men were bound to lay up goods and money against coming failure of the means of support and for their children . 
This necessity made parsimony a virtue . 
But now it would have no such laudable object , and , having lost its utility , it has ceased to be regarded as a virtue . 
That is a sweeping guarantee ! I said . 
The employer paid as little as he could , and the worker got as much . 
There seemed to us no other practicable way of doing it . 
All that is conceded , I said . 
But , with all its defects , the plan of settling prices by the market rate was a practical plan and I cannot conceive what satisfactory substitute you can have devised for it . 
The government being the only possible employer , there is of course no labor market or market rate . 
Wages of all sorts must be arbitrarily fixed by the government . 
I cannot imagine a more complex and delicate function than that must be , or one , however performed , more certain to breed universal dissatisfaction . 
I beg your pardon , replied Dr . 
Leete , but I think you exaggerate the difficulty . 
But this is aside from the purpose , for , though this plan would , I fancy , be practicable enough , it is no part of our system . 
How , then , do you regulate wages ? I once more asked . 
Leete did not reply till after several moments of meditative silence . 
I suppose you mean that you have no money to pay wages in , said I. But the credit given the worker at the government storehouse answers to his wages with us . 
Leete , is his humanity . 
The basis of his claim is the fact that he is a man . 
The fact that he is a man ! I repeated , incredulously . 
Do you possibly mean that all have the same share ? Most assuredly . 
Leete's simple statement plunged me . 
Some men do twice the work of others ! I exclaimed . 
Are the clever workmen content with a plan that ranks them with the indifferent ? We leave no possible ground for any complaint of injustice , replied Dr . 
Leete , by requiring precisely the same measure of service from all . 
How can you do that , I should like to know , when no two men's powers are the same ? Nothing could be simpler , was Dr . 
We require of each that he shall make the same effort that is , we demand of him the best service it is in his power to give . 
And supposing all do the best they can , I answered , the amount of the product resulting is twice greater from one man than from another . 
Very true , replied Dr . 
Leete but the amount of the resulting product has nothing whatever to do with the question , which is one of desert . 
Desert is a moral question , and the amount of the product a material quantity . 
It would be an extraordinary sort of logic which should try to determine a moral question by a material standard . 
The amount of the effort alone is pertinent to the question of desert . 
All men who do their best , do the same . 
A man's endowments , however godlike , merely fix the measure of his duty . 
The Creator sets men's tasks for them by the faculties he gives them we simply exact their fulfillment . 
Does it , indeed , seem so to you ? responded Dr . 
In the nineteenth century , when a horse pulled a heavier load than a goat , I suppose you rewarded him . 
Now , we should have whipped him soundly if he had not , on the ground that , being much stronger , he ought to . 
It is singular how ethical standards change . 
The doctor said this with such a twinkle in his eye that I was obliged to laugh . 
That brings me to ask why , unless human nature has mightily changed in a hundred years , you are not under the same necessity . 
We are , replied Dr . 
I don't think there has been any change in human nature in that respect since your day . 
When it was a question of the grandest class of efforts , the most absolute self devotion , they depended on quite other incentives . 
The coarser motives , which no longer move us , have been replaced by higher motives wholly unknown to the mere wage earners of your age . 
The army of industry is an army , not alone by virtue of its perfect organization , but by reason also of the ardor of self devotion which animates its members . 
But as you used to supplement the motives of patriotism with the love of glory , in order to stimulate the valor of your soldiers , so do we . 
With us , diligence in the national service is the sole and certain way to public repute , social distinction , and official power . 
The value of a man's services to society fixes his rank in it . 
The lust of honor even in your sordid day notoriously impelled men to more desperate effort than the love of money could . 
I should be extremely interested , I said , to learn something of what these social arrangements are . 
At this moment our talk was charmingly interrupted by the emergence upon the aerial platform where we sat of Edith Leete . 
She was dressed for the street , and had come to speak to her father about some commission she was to do for him . 
My daughter , he added , turning to me , is an indefatigable shopper , and can tell you more about the stores than I can . 
The proposition was naturally very agreeable to me , and Edith being good enough to say that she should be glad to have my company , we left the house together . 
Chapter If I am going to explain our way of shopping to you , said my companion , as we walked along the street , you must explain your way to me . 
I have never been able to understand it from all I have read on the subject . 
It was as you suppose that was the only way she could know , I replied . 
Father calls me an indefatigable shopper , but I should soon be a very fatigued one if I had to do as they did , was Edith's laughing comment . 
Those who did a great deal of buying , learned in time where they might expect to find what they wanted . 
This class had made a science of the specialties of the shops , and bought at advantage , always getting the most and best for the least money . 
It required , however , long experience to acquire this knowledge . 
Those who were too busy , or bought too little to gain it , took their chances and were generally unfortunate , getting the least and worst for the most money . 
It was the merest chance if persons not experienced in shopping received the value of their money . 
But why did you put up with such a shockingly inconvenient arrangement when you saw its faults so plainly ? Edith asked me . 
It was like all our social arrangements , I replied . 
You can see their faults scarcely more plainly than we did , but we saw no remedy for them . 
There was nothing in the exterior aspect of the edifice to suggest a store to a representative of the nineteenth century . 
There was no display of goods in the great windows , or any device to advertise wares , or attract custom . 
Judging from the composition of the throng passing in and out , about the same proportion of the sexes among shoppers obtained as in the nineteenth century . 
It was the first interior of a twentieth century public building that I had ever beheld , and the spectacle naturally impressed me deeply . 
Beneath it , in the centre of the hall , a magnificent fountain played , cooling the atmosphere to a delicious freshness with its spray . 
The walls and ceiling were frescoed in mellow tints , calculated to soften without absorbing the light which flooded the interior . 
Around the fountain was a space occupied with chairs and sofas , on which many persons were seated conversing . 
Legends on the walls all about the hall indicated to what classes of commodities the counters below were devoted . 
Edith directed her steps towards one of these , where samples of muslin of a bewildering variety were displayed , and proceeded to inspect them . 
Where is the clerk ? I asked , for there was no one behind the counter , and no one seemed coming to attend to the customer . 
I have no need of the clerk yet , said Edith I have not made my selection . 
It was the principal business of clerks to help people to make their selections in my day , I replied . 
What ! To tell people what they wanted ? Yes and oftener to induce them to buy what they didn't want . 
But did not ladies find that very impertinent ? Edith asked , wonderingly . 
What concern could it possibly be to the clerks whether people bought or not ? It was their sole concern , I answered . 
They were hired for the purpose of getting rid of the goods , and were expected to do their utmost , short of the use of force , to compass that end . 
Ah , yes ! How stupid I am to forget ! said Edith . 
The storekeeper and his clerks depended for their livelihood on selling the goods in your day . 
Of course that is all different now . 
The goods are the nation's . 
No , said Edith , that is not the business of the clerk . 
These printed cards , for which the government authorities are responsible , give us all the information we can possibly need . 
The clerk has , then , nothing to say about the goods he sells ? I said . 
It is not necessary that he should know or profess to know anything about them . 
Courtesy and accuracy in taking orders are all that are required of him . 
What a prodigious amount of lying that simple arrangement saves ! I ejaculated . 
Do you mean that all the clerks misrepresented their goods in your day ? Edith asked . 
But , Miss Leete , I am distracting you from your task with my talk . 
I have made my selections . 
With that she touched a button , and in a moment a clerk appeared . 
You were very quick about your selections , I said . 
Oh , no , she replied . 
We buy where we please , though naturally most often near home . 
But I should have gained nothing by visiting other stores . 
The assortment in all is exactly the same , representing as it does in each case samples of all the varieties produced or imported by the United States . 
That is why one can decide quickly , and never need visit two stores . 
And is this merely a sample store ? I see no clerks cutting off goods or marking bundles . 
All our stores are sample stores , except as to a few classes of articles . 
The goods , with these exceptions , are all at the great central warehouse of the city , to which they are shipped directly from the producers . 
We order from the sample and the printed statement of texture , make , and qualities . 
The orders are sent to the warehouse , and the goods distributed from there . 
That must be a tremendous saving of handling , I said . 
By our system , the manufacturer sold to the wholesaler , the wholesaler to the retailer , and the retailer to the consumer , and the goods had to be handled each time . 
You avoid one handling of the goods , and eliminate the retailer altogether , with his big profit and the army of clerks it goes to support . 
Why , Miss Leete , this store is merely the order department of a wholesale house , with no more than a wholesaler's complement of clerks . 
Under our system of handling the goods , persuading the customer to buy them , cutting them off , and packing them , ten clerks would not do what one does here . 
The saving must be enormous . 
I suppose so , said Edith , but of course we have never known any other way . 
He took me there not long ago , and it was a wonderful sight . 
The system is certainly perfect for example , over yonder in that sort of cage is the dispatching clerk . 
The orders , as they are taken by the different departments in the store , are sent by transmitters to him . 
His assistants sort them and enclose each class in a carrier box by itself . 
The dispatching clerk has a dozen pneumatic transmitters before him answering to the general classes of goods , each communicating with the corresponding department at the warehouse . 
The orders are read off , recorded , and sent to be filled , like lightning . 
The filling I thought the most interesting part . 
The packages are then delivered by larger tubes to the city districts , and thence distributed to the houses . 
You may understand how quickly it is all done when I tell you that my order will probably be at home sooner than I could have carried it from here . 
How do you manage in the thinly settled rural districts ? I asked . 
The system is the same , Edith explained the village sample shops are connected by transmitters with the central county warehouse , which may be twenty miles away . 
The transmission is so swift , though , that the time lost on the way is trifling . 
But , to save expense , in many counties one set of tubes connect several villages with the warehouse , and then there is time lost waiting for one another . 
Sometimes it is two or three hours before goods ordered are received . 
It was so where I was staying last summer , and I found it quite inconvenient . 
There must be many other respects also , no doubt , in which the country stores are inferior to the city stores , I suggested . 
No , Edith answered , they are otherwise precisely as good . 
As we walked home I commented on the great variety in the size and cost of the houses . 
Some like fine horses others , like myself , prefer pretty clothes and still others want an elaborate table . 
The rents which the nation receives for these houses vary , according to size , elegance , and location , so that everybody can find something to suit . 
It is a matter of taste and convenience wholly . 
I have read that in old times people often kept up establishments and did other things which they could not afford for ostentation , to make people think them richer than they were . 
Was it really so , Mr. West ? I shall have to admit that it was , I replied . 
Well , you see , it could not be so nowadays for everybody's income is known , and it is known that what is spent one way must be saved another . 
Chapter When we arrived home , Dr . 
Leete had not yet returned , and Mrs. Leete was not visible . 
Are you fond of music , Mr. West ? Edith asked . 
I assured her that it was half of life , according to my notion . 
I ought to apologize for inquiring , she said . 
You must remember , in excuse , I said , that we had some rather absurd kinds of music . 
Yes , she said , I know that I am afraid I should not have fancied it all myself . 
Would you like to hear some of ours now , Mr. West ? Nothing would delight me so much as to listen to you , I said . 
To me ! she exclaimed , laughing . 
Did you think I was going to play or sing to you ? I hoped so , certainly , I replied . 
Seeing that I was a little abashed , she subdued her merriment and explained . 
All the really fine singers and players are in the musical service , and the rest of us hold our peace for the main part . 
But would you really like to hear some music ? I assured her once more that I would . 
Come , then , into the music room , she said , and I followed her into an apartment finished , without hangings , in wood , with a floor of polished wood . 
I was prepared for new devices in musical instruments , but I saw nothing in the room which by any stretch of imagination could be conceived as such . 
It was evident that my puzzled appearance was affording intense amusement to Edith . 
Please look at to day's music , she said , handing me a card , and tell me what you would prefer . 
It is now five o'clock , you will remember . 
The card bore the date September , , and contained the longest programme of music I had ever seen . 
It was as various as it was long , including a most extraordinary range of vocal and instrumental solos , duets , quartettes , and various orchestral combinations . 
There were but a few pieces of music in the P. M. section , and I indicated an organ piece as my preference . 
I am so glad you like the organ , said she . 
I think there is scarcely any music that suits my mood oftener . 
I listened , scarcely breathing , to the close . 
Such music , so perfectly rendered , I had never expected to hear . 
Grand ! I cried , as the last great wave of sound broke and ebbed away into silence . 
I think it is perfectly charming and as she spoke the sound of violins filled the room with the witchery of a summer night . 
When this had also ceased , she said There is nothing in the least mysterious about the music , as you seem to imagine . 
It is not made by fairies or genii , but by good , honest , and exceedingly clever human hands . 
We have simply carried the idea of labor saving by cooperation into our musical service as into everything else . 
There are a number of music rooms in the city , perfectly adapted acoustically to the different sorts of music . 
I am sure I never could imagine how those among you who depended at all on music managed to endure the old fashioned system for providing it , replied Edith . 
Who would ever dine , however hungry , if required to eat everything brought on the table ? and I am sure one's hearing is quite as sensitive as one's taste . 
Yes , I replied , it was that sort of music or none for most of us . 
Ah , well , Edith sighed , when one really considers , it is not so strange that people in those days so often did not care for music . 
I dare say I should have detested it , too . 
Our people keep all hours but if the music were provided from midnight to morning for no others , it still would be for the sleepless , the sick , and the dying . 
I suppose , I said , the inheritance of property is not now allowed . 
On the contrary , replied Dr . 
Leete , there is no interference with it . 
This question of inheritance illustrates just that point . 
His credit , like an annuity in your day , ceases on his death , with the allowance of a fixed sum for funeral expenses . 
His other possessions he leaves as he pleases . 
That matter arranges itself very simply , was the reply . 
Under the present organization of society , accumulations of personal property are merely burdensome the moment they exceed what adds to the real comfort . 
Nowadays a man whom the legacies of a hundred relatives , simultaneously dying , should place in a similar position , would be considered very unlucky . 
The articles , not being salable , would be of no value to him except for their actual use or the enjoyment of their beauty . 
You see , then , that to prohibit the inheritance of personal property with a view to prevent great accumulations would be a superfluous precaution for the nation . 
The individual citizen can be trusted to see that he is not overburdened . 
So careful is he in this respect , that the relatives usually waive claim to most of the effects of deceased friends , reserving only particular objects . 
The nation takes charge of the resigned chattels , and turns such as are of value into the common stock once more . 
You spoke of paying for service to take care of your houses , said I that suggests a question I have several times been on the point of asking . 
But we do not need them . 
Who does your house work , then ? I asked . 
There is none to do , said Mrs. Leete , to whom I had addressed this question . 
Our washing is all done at public laundries at excessively cheap rates , and our cooking at public kitchens . 
The making and repairing of all we wear are done outside in public shops . 
Electricity , of course , takes the place of all fires and lighting . 
We choose houses no larger than we need , and furnish them so as to involve the minimum of trouble to keep them in order . 
We have no use for domestic servants . 
The fact , said Dr . 
In case of special emergencies in the household , pursued Dr . 
Leete , such as extensive cleaning or renovation , or sickness in the family , we can always secure assistance from the industrial force . 
But how do you recompense these assistants , since you have no money ? We do not pay them , of course , but the nation for them . 
Their services can be obtained by application at the proper bureau , and their value is pricked off the credit card of the applicant . 
What a paradise for womankind the world must be now ! I exclaimed . 
The broad shoulders of the nation , said Dr . 
Leete , bear now like a feather the burden that broke the backs of the women of your day . 
There , there , father , if you are so vehement , Mr. West will think you are scolding him , laughingly interposed Edith . 
The good a physician can do a patient depends largely on his acquaintance with his constitutional tendencies and condition . 
The patient must be able , therefore , to call in a particular doctor , and he does so just as patients did in your day . 
In the first place , if you will overlook the apparent conceit of the remark from a retired physician , replied Dr . 
Leete , with a smile , we have no poor doctors . 
Anybody who pleases to get a little smattering of medical terms is not now at liberty to practice on the bodies of citizens , as in your day . 
None but students who have passed the severe tests of the schools , and clearly proved their vocation , are permitted to practice . 
Then , too , you will observe that there is nowadays no attempt of doctors to build up their practice at the expense of other doctors . 
There would be no motive for that . 
For the rest , the doctor has to render regular reports of his work to the medical bureau , and if he is not reasonably well employed , work is found for him . 
Chapter The questions which I needed to ask before I could acquire even an outline acquaintance with the institutions of the twentieth century being endless , and Dr . 
Leete's good nature appearing equally so , we sat up talking for several hours after the ladies left us . 
With a view to these two ends the industrial army is organized . 
First comes the unclassified grade of common laborers , men of all work , to which all recruits during their first three years belong . 
This grade is a sort of school , and a very strict one , in which the young men are taught habits of obedience , subordination , and devotion to duty . 
Having selected this , they enter upon it as apprentices . 
The length of the apprenticeship naturally differs in different occupations . 
At the end of it the apprentice becomes a full workman , and a member of his trade or guild . 
According to his standing as an apprentice a young man is assigned his place as a first , second , or third grade worker . 
Of course only men of unusual ability pass directly from apprenticeship into the first grade of the workers . 
The most fall into the lower grades , working up as they grow more experienced , at the periodical regradings . 
What may this badge be ? I asked . 
Every industry has its emblematic device , replied Dr . 
It is obviously important that not only the good but also the indifferent and poor workmen should be able to cherish the ambition of rising . 
It is to this end that the grades are divided into classes . 
It is not even necessary that a worker should win promotion to a higher grade to have at least a taste of glory . 
There are many minor distinctions of standing , not only within the grades but within the classes , each of which acts as a spur to the efforts of a group . 
It is intended that no form of merit shall wholly fail of recognition . 
A man able to do duty , and persistently refusing , is sentenced to solitary imprisonment on bread and water till he consents . 
Where this leaves too large a range of choice , only the first group of this class are eligible . 
No one thus comes to the point of commanding men until he is about thirty years old . 
After a man becomes an officer , his rating of course no longer depends on the efficiency of his own work , but on that of his men . 
The foremen are appointed from among the assistant foremen , by the same exercise of discretion limited to a small eligible class . 
In the appointments to the still higher grades another principle is introduced , which it would take too much time to explain now . 
You must remember that , under the national organization of labor , all industries are carried on by great bodies of men , many of your farms or shops being combined as one . 
There are two or three other points I ought to refer to , he added , to prevent your getting mistaken impressions . 
Such as these find their motives within , not without , and measure their duty by their own endowments , not by those of others . 
So long as their achievement is proportioned to their powers , they would consider it preposterous to expect praise or blame because it chanced to be great or small . 
For these , then , emulation of the keenest edge is provided as a constant spur . 
Those who need this motive will feel it . 
Those who are above its influence do not need it . 
The strongest often do nearly a man's work , the feeblest , of course , nothing but none who can do anything are willing quite to give up . 
In their lucid intervals , even our insane are eager to do what they can . 
That is a pretty idea of the invalid corps , I said . 
Even a barbarian from the nineteenth century can appreciate that . 
It is a very graceful way of disguising charity , and must be grateful to the feelings of its recipients . 
Did you suppose that we consider the incapable class we are talking of objects of charity ? Why , naturally , I said , inasmuch as they are incapable of self support . 
But here the doctor took me up quickly . 
Who is capable of self support ? he demanded . 
There is no such thing in a civilized society as self support . 
As men grow more civilized , and the subdivision of occupations and services is carried out , a complex mutual dependence becomes the universal rule . 
Every man , however solitary may seem his occupation , is a member of a vast industrial partnership , as large as the nation , as large as humanity . 
The necessity of mutual dependence should imply the duty and guarantee of mutual support and that it did not in your day constituted the essential cruelty and unreason of your system . 
That may all be so , I replied , but it does not touch the case of those who are unable to contribute anything to the product of industry . 
Surely I told you this morning , at least I thought I did , replied Dr . 
You said so , I answered , but I supposed the rule applied only to the workers of different ability . 
The idea of charity on such a scale , I answered , would have made our most enthusiastic philanthropists gasp . 
If you had a sick brother at home , replied Dr . 
Would not the word , in that connection , fill you with indignation ? Of course , I replied but the cases are not parallel . 
There speaks the nineteenth century ! exclaimed Dr . 
Ah , Mr. West , there is no doubt as to the length of time that you slept . 
They stayed at home , and were protected by those who fought , and nobody questioned their right to be , or thought less of them . 
The worker is not a citizen because he works , but works because he is a citizen . 
As you recognize the duty of the strong to fight for the weak , we , now that fighting is gone by , recognize his duty to work for him . 
The only coin current is the image of God , and that is good for all we have . 
I think there is no feature of the civilization of your epoch so repugnant to modern ideas as the neglect with which you treated your dependent classes . 
It is a mystery how men with children could favor a system under which they were rewarded beyond those less endowed with bodily strength or mental power . 
How men dared leave children behind them , I have never been able to understand . 
Although in his talk on the previous evening Dr . 
The rich , in this respect , had little advantage over the poor . 
The liberal and technical professions , except by favorable accident , were shut to them , to their own great loss and that of the nation . 
All these things now are changed . 
Equal education and opportunity must needs bring to light whatever aptitudes a man has , and neither social prejudices nor mercenary considerations hamper him in the choice of his life work . 
Chapter As Edith had promised he should do , Dr . 
Leete accompanied me to my bedroom when I retired , to instruct me as to the adjustment of the musical telephone . 
If , of two persons side by side , one desired to listen to music and the other to sleep , it could be made audible to one and inaudible to another . 
In the trying experience you are just now passing through , sleep is a nerve tonic for which there is no substitute . 
Mindful of what had happened to me that very morning , I promised to heed his counsel . 
Very well , he said , then I will set the telephone at eight o'clock . 
What do you mean ? I asked . 
He explained that , by a clock work combination , a person could arrange to be awakened at any hour by the music . 
The air , cooled by the spray of fountains , was heavy with the scent of flowers . 
A band of Nautch girls , round limbed and luscious lipped , danced with voluptuous grace to the music of brazen and stringed instruments . 
The airs played at one of the halls during the waking hours of the morning were always of an inspiring type . 
By the way , I said , I have not thought to ask you anything about the state of Europe . 
Have the societies of the Old World also been remodeled ? Yes , replied Dr . 
The peaceful relations of these nations are assured by a loose form of federal union of world wide extent . 
Complete autonomy within its own limits is enjoyed by every nation . 
How do you carry on commerce without money ? I said . 
In trading with other nations , you must use some sort of money , although you dispense with it in the internal affairs of the nation . 
Oh , no money is as superfluous in our foreign as in our internal relations . 
Customs duties of every sort are of course superfluous . 
A nation simply does not import what its government does not think requisite for the general interest . 
Each nation has a bureau of foreign exchange , which manages its trading . 
The same is done mutually by all the nations . 
But how are the prices of foreign goods settled , since there is no competition ? The price at which one nation supplies another with goods , replied Dr . 
Leete , must be that at which it supplies its own citizens . 
So you see there is no danger of misunderstanding . 
Of course no nation is theoretically bound to supply another with the product of its own labor , but it is for the interest of all to exchange some commodities . 
If a nation is regularly supplying another with certain goods , notice is required from either side of any important change in the relation . 
In the fist place , no favoritism could be legally shown . 
The law requires that each nation shall deal with the others , in all respects , on exactly the same footing . 
Such a course as you suggest would cut off the nation adopting it from the remainder of the earth for all purposes whatever . 
The contingency is one that need not give us much anxiety . 
You must understand that we all look forward to an eventual unification of the world as one nation . 
That , no doubt , will be the ultimate form of society , and will realize certain economic advantages over the present federal system of autonomous nations . 
Meanwhile , however , the present system works so nearly perfectly that we are quite content to leave to posterity the completion of the scheme . 
How do you manage , I asked , when the books of any two nations do not balance ? Supposing we import more from France than we export to her . 
At the end of each year , replied the doctor , the books of every nation are examined . 
If France is found in our debt , probably we are in the debt of some nation which owes France , and so on with all the nations . 
The balances that remain after the accounts have been cleared by the international council should not be large under our system . 
To guard further against this , the international council inspects the commodities interchanged by the nations , to see that they are of perfect quality . 
I suppose there is no emigration nowadays . 
On the contrary , there is constant emigration , by which I suppose you mean removal to foreign countries for permanent residence , replied Dr . 
It is arranged on a simple international arrangement of indemnities . 
For example , if a man at twenty one emigrates from England to America , England loses all the expense of his maintenance and education , and America gets a workman for nothing . 
America accordingly makes England an allowance . 
The same principle , varied to suit the case , applies generally . 
If the man is near the term of his labor when he emigrates , the country receiving him has the allowance . 
Subject to these regulations , the right of any man to emigrate at any time is unrestricted . 
How does he pay his way ? An American credit card , replied Dr . 
Perhaps Mr. West would like to dine at the Elephant to day , said Edith , as we left the table . 
That is the name we give to the general dining house in our ward , explained her father . 
The two minor meals of the day are usually taken at home , as not worth the trouble of going out but it is general to go out to dine . 
We have not done so since you have been with us , from a notion that it would be better to wait till you had become a little more familiar with our ways . 
What do you think ? Shall we take dinner at the dining house to day ? I said that I should be very much pleased to do so . 
Come with me , was her smiling reply , and see if I am not as good as my word . 
It was a small , cosy apartment , walled with cases filled with books . 
She had indeed made good her promise in a sense compared with which its literal fulfillment would have been a disappointment . 
She had introduced me to a circle of friends whom the century that had elapsed since last I communed with them had aged as little as it had myself . 
Their spirit was as high , their wit as keen , their laughter and their tears as contagious , as when their speech had whiled away the hours of a former century . 
Lonely I was not and could not be more , with this goodly companionship , however wide the gulf of years that gaped between me and my old life . 
You are glad I brought you here , exclaimed Edith , radiant , as she read in my face the success of her experiment . 
Attracted by the most familiar of the names before me , I laid my hand on a volume of Dickens , and sat down to read . 
That power , already dulled in my case , the pages of Dickens restored by carrying me back through their associations to the standpoint of my former life . 
With a clearness which I had not been able before to attain , I saw now the past and present , like contrasting pictures , side by side . 
During the hour or two that I sat there with Dickens open before me , I did not actually read more than a couple of pages . 
Every paragraph , every phrase , brought up some new aspect of the world transformation which had taken place , and led my thoughts on long and widely ramifying excursions . 
As meditating thus in Dr . 
I had neither foreseen the new world nor toiled for it , as many about me had done regardless of the scorn of fools or the misconstruction of the good . 
In the Parliament of man , the federation of the world . 
Then the common sense of most shall hold a fretful realm in awe , And the kindly earth shall slumber , lapt in universal law . 
For I doubt not through the ages one increasing purpose runs , And the thoughts of men are widened with the process of the suns . 
I was still in the library when some hours later Dr . 
Edith told me of her idea , he said , and I thought it an excellent one . 
I had a little curiosity what writer you would first turn to . 
Ah , Dickens ! You admired him , then ! That is where we moderns agree with you . 
I was much surprised when at the dinner hour the ladies appeared prepared to go out , but without either rubbers or umbrellas . 
At the comers the entire open space was similarly roofed in . 
Were sidewalk coverings not used at all ? she asked . 
They were used , I explained , but in a scattered and utterly unsystematic way , being private enterprises . 
She intimated that it would be considered an extraordinary imbecility to permit the weather to have any effect on the social movements of the people . 
As we walked on , Edith said , The private umbrella is father's favorite figure to illustrate the old way when everybody lived for himself and his family . 
We now entered a large building into which a stream of people was pouring . 
My companion said that the sculptured group over the entrance was especially admired . 
Going up a grand staircase we walked some distance along a broad corridor with many doors opening upon it . 
At one of these , which bore my host's name , we turned in , and I found myself in an elegant dining room containing a table for four . 
Windows opened on a courtyard where a fountain played to a great height and music made the air electric . 
You seem at home here , I said , as we seated ourselves at table , and Dr . 
This is , in fact , a part of our house , slightly detached from the rest , he replied . 
Every family in the ward has a room set apart in this great building for its permanent and exclusive use for a small annual rental . 
For transient guests and individuals there is accommodation on another floor . 
If we expect to dine here , we put in our orders the night before , selecting anything in market , according to the daily reports in the papers . 
The meal is as expensive or as simple as we please , though of course everything is vastly cheaper as well as better than it would be prepared at home . 
You would have found none of us disposed to disagree with you on that point , I said . 
The waiter , a fine looking young fellow , wearing a slightly distinctive uniform , now made his appearance . 
I observed him closely , as it was the first time I had been able to study particularly the bearing of one of the enlisted members of the industrial army . 
This young man , I knew from what I had been told , must be highly educated , and the equal , socially and in all respects , of those he served . 
But it was perfectly evident that to neither side was the situation in the slightest degree embarrassing . 
It was , in fact , the manner of a soldier on duty , but without the military stiffness . 
As the youth left the room , I said , I cannot get over my wonder at seeing a young man like that serving so contentedly in a menial position . 
What is that word menial' ? I never heard it , said Edith . 
It is obsolete now , remarked her father . 
If I understand it rightly , it applied to persons who performed particularly disagreeable and unpleasant tasks for others , and carried with it an implication of contempt . 
Was it not so , Mr. West ? That is about it , I said . 
What a strangely artificial idea , exclaimed Mrs. Leete wonderingly . 
And yet these services had to be rendered , said Edith . 
Of course , I replied . 
But we imposed them on the poor , and those who had no alternative but starvation . 
And increased the burden you imposed on them by adding your contempt , remarked Dr . 
I don't think I clearly understand , said Edith . 
Leete , however , came to my relief . 
It is the worst thing about any system which divides men , or allows them to be divided , into classes and castes , that it weakens the sense of a common humanity . 
There is not , after all , such a difference as might appear between our ways of looking at this question of service . 
The poor and the uncultured , however , they looked upon as of another kind from themselves . 
The equal wealth and equal opportunities of culture which all persons now enjoy have simply made us all members of one class , which corresponds to the most fortunate class with you . 
In your day the same phrases were indeed used , but they were phrases merely . 
Do the waiters , also , volunteer ? No , replied Dr . 
The waiters are young men in the unclassified grade of the industrial army who are assignable to all sorts of miscellaneous occupations not requiring special skill . 
Waiting on table is one of these , and every young recruit is given a taste of it . 
I myself served as a waiter for several months in this very dining house some forty years ago . 
Once more you must remember that there is recognized no sort of difference between the dignity of the different sorts of work required by the nation . 
The individual is never regarded , nor regards himself , as the servant of those he serves , nor is he in any way dependent upon them . 
It is always the nation which he is serving . 
No difference is recognized between a waiter's functions and those of any other worker . 
The fact that his is a personal service is indifferent from our point of view . 
After dinner my entertainers conducted me about the building , of which the extent , the magnificent architecture and richness of embellishment , astonished me . 
It seemed that it was not merely a dining hall , but likewise a great pleasure house and social rendezvous of the quarter , and no appliance of entertainment or recreation seemed lacking . 
You find illustrated here , said Dr . 
All the industrial and professional guilds have clubhouses as extensive as this , as well as country , mountain , and seaside houses for sport and rest in vacations . 
The use of this argument illustrates a common confusion in thought on the part of my former contemporaries . 
There is no way in which selling labor for the highest price it will fetch is more dignified than selling goods for what can be got . 
Both were commercial transactions to be judged by the commercial standard . 
By setting a price in money on his service , the worker accepted the money measure for it , and renounced all clear claim to be judged by any other . 
The sordid taint which this necessity imparted to the noblest and the highest sorts of service was bitterly resented by generous souls , but there was no evading it . 
There was no exemption , however transcendent the quality of one's service , from the necessity of haggling for its price in the market place . 
The physician must sell his healing and the apostle his preaching like the rest . 
The prophet , who had guessed the meaning of God , must dicker for the price of the revelation , and the poet hawk his visions in printers' row . 
Edith tells me that you have been in the library all the morning , said Mrs. Leete . 
Do you know , it seems to me , Mr. West , that you are the most enviable of mortals . 
I should like to know just why , I replied . 
Because the books of the last hundred years will be new to you , she answered . 
You will have so much of the most absorbing literature to read as to leave you scarcely time for meals these five years to come . 
Ah , what would I give if I had not already read Berrian's novels . 
Or Nesmyth's , mamma , added Edith . 
I judge , then , that there has been some notable literature produced in this century . 
It has been an era of unexampled intellectual splendor . 
There ensued an era of mechanical invention , scientific discovery , art , musical and literary productiveness to which no previous age of the world offers anything comparable . 
By the way , said I , talking of literature , how are books published now ? Is that also done by the nation ? Certainly . 
The printing department has no censorial powers . 
It is bound to print all that is offered it , but prints it only on condition that the author defray the first cost out of his credit . 
He must pay for the privilege of the public ear , and if he has any message worth hearing we consider that he will be glad to do it . 
The cost of an edition of an average book can be saved out of a year's credit by the practice of economy and some sacrifices . 
The book , on being published , is placed on sale by the nation . 
The author receiving a royalty on the sales as with us , I suppose , I suggested . 
Not as with you , certainly , replied Dr . 
Leete , but nevertheless in one way . 
The price of every book is made up of the cost of its publication with a royalty for the author . 
The author fixes this royalty at any figure he pleases . 
Of course if he puts it unreasonably high it is his own loss , for the book will not sell . 
In this respect the outcome of our system is not very dissimilar to that of yours , but there are two notable differences . 
In the second place , there is no such thing now as favoritism of any sort to interfere with the recognition of true merit . 
Every author has precisely the same facilities for bringing his work before the popular tribunal . 
To judge from the complaints of the writers of your day , this absolute equality of opportunity would have been greatly prized . 
In the recognition of merit in other fields of original genius , such as music , art , invention , design , I said , I suppose you follow a similar principle . 
Yes , he replied , although the details differ . 
In art , for example , as in literature , the people are the sole judges . 
They vote upon the acceptance of statues and paintings for the public buildings , and their favorable verdict carries with it the artist's remission from other tasks to devote himself to his vocation . 
On copies of his work disposed of , he also derives the same advantage as the author on sales of his books . 
The remission of other service in these cases is not intended as a gift or reward , but as the means of obtaining more and higher service . 
Of course there are various literary , art , and scientific institutes to which membership comes to the famous and is greatly prized . 
Not over a certain number wear it at any one time , though every bright young fellow in the country loses innumerable nights' sleep dreaming of it . 
Just as if mamma and I would have thought any more of you with it , exclaimed Edith not that it isn't , of course , a very fine thing to have . 
You had no choice , my dear , but to take your father as you found him and make the best of him , Dr . 
On this extravagance Mrs. Leete's only comment was a smile . 
How about periodicals and newspapers ? I said . 
It took the deep pockets of our private capitalists to do that , and often exhausted even them before the returns came in . 
If you have newspapers at all , they must , I fancy , be published by the government at the public expense , with government editors , reflecting government opinions . 
Now , if your system is so perfect that there is never anything to criticize in the conduct of affairs , this arrangement may answer . 
Otherwise I should think the lack of an independent unofficial medium for the expression of public opinion would have most unfortunate results . 
I am afraid I can't give you even that consolation , replied Dr . 
To us , the judgments of your newspapers on such themes seem generally to have been crude and flippant , as well as deeply tinctured with prejudice and bitterness . 
But this is not because we lack newspapers and magazines , or that they lack the most absolute freedom . 
The people who take the paper pay the expense of its publication , choose its editor , and remove him when unsatisfactory . 
You will scarcely say , I think , that such a newspaper press is not a free organ of popular opinion . 
Decidedly I shall not , I replied , but how is it practicable ? Nothing could be simpler . 
Supposing some of my neighbors or myself think we ought to have a newspaper reflecting our opinions , and devoted especially to our locality , trade , or profession . 
The subscribers to the paper now elect somebody as editor , who , if he accepts the office , is discharged from other service during his incumbency . 
At the end of the first year , the subscribers for the next either re elect the former editor or choose any one else to his place . 
An able editor , of course , keeps his place indefinitely . 
As the subscription list enlarges , the funds of the paper increase , and it is improved by the securing of more and better contributors , just as your papers were . 
How is the staff of contributors recompensed , since they cannot be paid in money ? The editor settles with them the price of their wares . 
As to magazines , the system is the same . 
When an editor's services are no longer desired , if he cannot earn the right to his time by other literary work , he simply resumes his place in the industrial army . 
It is most certain , replied Dr . 
There is not only the remission by indemnification but the remission by abnegation . 
It is quite possible to live on this amount , though one must forego the luxuries and elegancies of life , with some , perhaps , of its comforts . 
It is considered his masterpiece , and will at least give you an idea what the stories nowadays are like . 
I sat up in my room that night reading Penthesilia till it grew gray in the east , and did not lay it down till I had finished it . 
The reading of Penthesilia was of more value than almost any amount of explanation would have been in giving me something like a general impression of the social aspect of the twentieth century . 
Leete had imparted was indeed extensive as to facts , but they had affected my mind as so many separate impressions , which I had as yet succeeded but imperfectly in making cohere . 
Berrian put them together for me in a picture . 
Chapter Next morning I rose somewhat before the breakfast hour . 
As I descended the stairs , Edith stepped into the hall from the room which had been the scene of the morning interview between us described some chapters back . 
Ah ! she exclaimed , with a charmingly arch expression , you thought to slip out unbeknown for another of those solitary morning rambles which have such nice effects on you . 
But you see I am up too early for you this time . 
You discredit the efficacy of your own cure , I said , by supposing that such a ramble would now be attended with bad consequences . 
I am very glad to hear that , she said . 
I was in here arranging some flowers for the breakfast table when I heard you come down , and fancied I detected something surreptitious in your step on the stairs . 
You did me injustice , I replied . 
I had no idea of going out at all . 
Receiving permission to assist her in making up the breakfast bouquet , I followed her into the room from which she had emerged . 
I shall never forget how you looked that morning , she said . 
I spoke with emotion , and her eyes grew suddenly moist . 
It is too much to believe all this , she said , but it is very delightful to hear you say it . 
What I did was very little . 
I was very much distressed for you , I know . 
I know that I could not have borne it at all . 
That would depend , I replied , on whether an angel came to support you with her sympathy in the crisis of your condition , as one came to me . 
The expression or the words , or both together , caused her now to drop her eyes with a charming blush . 
It seemed then not so much astounding as interesting and touching beyond anything ever heard of before . 
We belong to a future of which you could not form an idea , a generation of which you knew nothing until you saw us . 
But you belong to a generation of which our forefathers were a part . 
We know all about it the names of many of its members are household words with us . 
We have made a study of your ways of living and thinking nothing you say or do surprises us , while we say and do nothing which does not seem strange to you . 
I had not thought of it in that way , I replied . 
There is indeed much in what you say . 
One can look back a thousand years easier than forward fifty . 
A century is not so very long a retrospect . 
I might have known your great grand parents . 
Did they live in Boston ? I believe so . 
You are not sure , then ? Yes , she replied . 
Now I think , they did . 
I had a very large circle of acquaintances in the city , I said . 
It is not unlikely that I knew or knew of some of them . 
Perhaps I may have known them well . 
Wouldn't it be interesting if I should chance to be able to tell you all about your great grandfather , for instance ? Very interesting . 
Do you know your genealogy well enough to tell me who your forbears were in the Boston of my day ? Oh , yes . 
Perhaps , then , you will some time tell me what some of their names were . 
She was engrossed in arranging a troublesome spray of green , and did not reply at once . 
Steps upon the stairway indicated that the other members of the family were descending . 
Perhaps , some time , she said . 
Leete suggested taking me to inspect the central warehouse and observe actually in operation the machinery of distribution , which Edith had described to me . 
I have not spoken of this aspect of my position before because there were so many other aspects yet more extraordinary . 
As for your being a guest in my house , replied Dr . 
Leete , I pray you not to begin to be uneasy on that point , for I mean to keep you a long time yet . 
With all your modesty , you can but realize that such a guest as yourself is an acquisition not willingly to be parted with . 
Thanks , doctor , I said . 
But if I am to be a permanent citizen of this century I must have some standing in it . 
But nowadays everybody is a part of a system with a distinct place and function . 
I admit , he said , that our system is defective in lacking provision for cases like yours , but you see nobody anticipated additions to the world except by the usual process . 
You need , however , have no fear that we shall be unable to provide both a place and occupation for you in due time . 
You have as yet been brought in contact only with the members of my family , but you must not suppose that I have kept your secret . 
On the contrary , your case , even before your resuscitation , and vastly more since has excited the profoundest interest in the nation . 
As to finding a function for you in society , there was no hesitation as to what that would be . 
What can I possibly do ? I asked . 
Perhaps you imagine I have some trade , or art , or special skill . 
I assure you I have none whatever . 
I never earned a dollar in my life , or did an hour's work . 
I am strong , and might be a common laborer , but nothing more . 
If that were the most efficient service you were able to render the nation , you would find that avocation considered quite as respectable as any other , replied Dr . 
Leete but you can do something else better . 
Very good ! very good indeed , I said , much relieved by so practical a suggestion on a point which had begun to trouble me . 
If your people are really so much interested in the nineteenth century , there will indeed be an occupation ready made for me . 
But I should like very much to know something more about your system of production . 
Does it indeed seem so to you ? responded Dr . 
Since you already have a pretty good idea of the working of the distributive system , let us begin at that end . 
On these figures , allowing for tendencies to increase or decrease and for any special causes likely to affect demand , the estimates , say for a year ahead , are based . 
These estimates , with a proper margin for security , having been accepted by the general administration , the responsibility of the distributive department ceases until the goods are delivered to it . 
The production of the commodities for actual public consumption does not , of course , require by any means all the national force of workers . 
One point occurs to me , I said , on which I should think there might be dissatisfaction . 
That would be tyranny indeed , replied Dr . 
Leete , and you may be very sure that it does not happen with us , to whom liberty is as dear as equality or fraternity . 
As you come to know our system better , you will see that our officials are in fact , and not merely in name , the agents and servants of the people . 
The administration has no power to stop the production of any commodity for which there continues to be a demand . 
Suppose the demand for any article declines to such a point that its production becomes very costly . 
The price has to be raised in proportion , of course , but as long as the consumer cares to pay it , the production goes on . 
Again , suppose an article not before produced is demanded . 
If the administration doubts the reality of the demand , a popular petition guaranteeing a certain basis of consumption compels it to produce the desired article . 
Possibly you had reasons for tolerating these infringements of personal independence , but we should not think them endurable . 
You speak of raising the price of costly articles , I said . 
How can prices be regulated in a country where there is no competition between buyers or sellers ? Just as they were with you , replied Dr . 
This calculation applied to the labor employed in the various processes of a manufactured article gives its price relatively to other articles . 
Besides the cost of production and transportation , the factor of scarcity affects the prices of some commodities . 
As regards the great staples of life , of which an abundance can always be secured , scarcity is eliminated as a factor . 
There is always a large surplus kept on hand from which any fluctuations of demand or supply can be corrected , even in most cases of bad crops . 
The prices of the staples grow less year by year , but rarely , if ever , rise . 
All that can be done here is to equalize the inconvenience of the scarcity . 
This is done by temporarily raising the price if the scarcity be temporary , or fixing it high if it be permanent . 
These it has to dispose of at a sacrifice just as merchants often did in your day , charging up the loss to the expenses of the business . 
Owing , however , to the vast body of consumers to which such lots can be simultaneously offered , there is rarely any difficulty in getting rid of them at trifling loss . 
I have given you now some general notion of our system of production as well as distribution . 
Do you find it as complex as you expected ? I admitted that nothing could be much simpler . 
I am sure , said Dr . 
All this merely shows , my dear fellow , how much easier it is to do things the right way than the wrong . 
He is the President of the United States , replied Dr . 
Leete , or rather the most important function of the presidency is the headship of the industrial army . 
How is he chosen ? I asked . 
I explained to you before , replied Dr . 
Next , with an intervening grade in some of the larger trades , comes the general of the guild , under whose immediate control all the operations of the trade are conducted . 
This officer is at the head of the national bureau representing his trade , and is responsible for its work to the administration . 
Above these ten great officers , who form his council , is the general in chief , who is the President of the United States . 
The general in chief of the industrial army must have passed through all the grades below him , from the common laborers up . 
Let us see how he rises . 
Through the lieutenancies he rises to the colonelcy , or superintendent's position , by appointment from above , strictly limited to the candidates of the best records . 
The general of the guild appoints to the ranks under him , but he himself is not appointed , but chosen by suffrage . 
By suffrage ! I exclaimed . 
Leete , if the workers had any suffrage to exercise , or anything to say about the choice . 
Just here comes in a peculiarity of our system . 
Of course , however , the associations of our active lifetime retain a powerful hold on us . 
The companionships we formed then remain our companionships till the end of life . 
We always continue honorary members of our former guilds , and retain the keenest and most jealous interest in their welfare and repute in the hands of the following generation . 
I assure you that these elections are exceedingly lively . 
The President , I suppose , is selected from among the ten heads of the great departments , I suggested . 
Precisely , but the heads of departments are not eligible to the presidency till they have been a certain number of years out of office . 
If more , he still serves through his term , and if less , he is nevertheless discharged from the industrial army at its termination . 
It would not do for him to return to the ranks . 
The army is not allowed to vote for President ? Certainly not . 
That would be perilous to its discipline , which it is the business of the President to maintain as the representative of the nation at large . 
The inspectorate , however , does not wait for complaints . 
The President is usually not far from fifty when elected , and serves five years , forming an honorable exception to the rule of retirement at forty five . 
At the end of his term of office , a national Congress is called to receive his report and approve or condemn it . 
If it is approved , Congress usually elects him to represent the nation for five years more in the international council . 
Congress , I should also say , passes on the reports of the outgoing heads of departments , and a disapproval renders any one of them ineligible for President . 
But it is rare , indeed , that the nation has occasion for other sentiments than those of gratitude toward its high officers . 
One point I do not quite understand , I said . 
On this ground they vote for the President , but are not eligible to his office . 
One of its main duties being the control and discipline of the industrial army , it is essential that the President should have passed through all its grades to understand his business . 
No more does he , was the reply . 
Did you , indeed ? exclaimed Dr . 
That is quite new to me , and I fancy will be to most of us , and of much interest as well . 
There has been great discussion as to the germ of the idea , and we fancied that there was for once something new under the sun . 
Well ! well ! In your higher educational institutions ! that is interesting indeed . 
You must tell me more of that . 
Truly , there is very little more to tell than I have told already , I replied . 
If we had the germ of your idea , it was but as a germ . 
Chapter That evening I sat up for some time after the ladies had retired , talking with Dr . 
At forty five , said I , a man still has ten years of good manual labor in him , and twice ten years of good intellectual service . 
To be superannuated at that age and laid on the shelf must be regarded rather as a hardship than a favor by men of energetic dispositions . 
My dear Mr. West , exclaimed Dr . 
Leete , beaming upon me , you cannot have any idea of the piquancy your nineteenth century ideas have for us of this day , the rare quaintness of their effect . 
Of course not all , nor the majority , have those scientific , artistic , literary , or scholarly interests which make leisure the one thing valuable to their possessors . 
As eager boys in your day anticipated twenty one , so men nowadays look forward to forty five . 
At twenty one we become men , but at forty five we renew youth . 
Middle age and what you would have called old age are considered , rather than youth , the enviable time of life . 
Persons of average constitution usually live to eighty five or ninety , and at forty five we are physically and mentally younger , I fancy , than you were at thirty five . 
With you it was the forenoon , with us it is the afternoon , which is the brighter half of life . 
After this I remember that our talk branched into the subject of popular sports and recreations at the present time as com pared with those of the nineteenth century . 
In one respect , said Dr . 
Leete , there is a marked difference . 
Our contests are always for glory only . 
The demand for panem ef circenses' preferred by the Roman populace is recognized nowadays as a wholly reasonable one . 
If bread is the first necessity of life , recreation is a close second , and the nation caters for both . 
Americans of the nineteenth century were as unfortunate in lacking an adequate provision for the one sort of need as for the other . 
Even if the people of that period had enjoyed larger leisure , they would , I fancy , have often been at a loss how to pass it agreeably . 
We are never in that predicament . 
Chapter In the course of an early morning constitutional I visited Charlestown . 
Among the changes , too numerous to attempt to indicate , which mark the lapse of a century in that quarter , I particularly noted the total disappearance of the old state prison . 
That went before my day , but I remember hearing about it , said Dr . 
Leete , when I alluded to the fact at the breakfast table . 
We have no jails nowadays . 
All cases of atavism are treated in the hospitals . 
Of atavism ! I exclaimed , staring . 
Why , yes , replied Dr . 
The idea of dealing punitively with those unfortunates was given up at least fifty years ago , and I think more . 
I don't quite understand you , I said . 
Atavism in my day was a word applied to the cases of persons in whom some trait of a remote ancestor recurred in a noticeable manner . 
Am I to understand that crime is nowadays looked upon as the recurrence of an ancestral trait ? I beg your pardon , said Dr . 
Leete with a smile half humorous , half deprecating , but since you have so explicitly asked the question , I am forced to say that the fact is precisely that . 
Leete had not spoken with that apologetic air and Mrs. Leete and Edith shown a corresponding embarrassment , I should not have flushed , as I was conscious I did . 
I was not in much danger of being vain of my generation before , I said but , really This is your generation , Mr. West , interposed Edith . 
It is the one in which you are living , you know , and it is only because we are alive now that we call it ours . 
I will try to think of it so , I said , and as my eyes met hers their expression quite cured my senseless sensitiveness . 
After all , I said , with a laugh , I was brought up a Calvinist , and ought not to be startled to hear crime spoken of as an ancestral trait . 
In point of fact , said Dr . 
You now see why the word atavism' is used for crime . 
It is because nearly all forms of crime known to you are motiveless now , and when they appear can only be explained as the outcropping of ancestral traits . 
You used to call persons who stole , evidently without any rational motive , kleptomaniacs , and when the case was clear deemed it absurd to punish them as thieves . 
Your attitude toward the genuine kleptomaniac is precisely ours toward the victim of atavism , an attitude of compassion and firm but gentle restraint . 
Your courts must have an easy time of it , I observed . 
We do without the lawyers , certainly , was Dr . 
But who defends the accused ? If he is a criminal he needs no defense , for he pleads guilty in most instances , replied Dr . 
The plea of the accused is not a mere formality with us , as with you . 
It is usually the end of the case . 
You don't mean that the man who pleads not guilty is thereupon discharged ? No , I do not mean that . 
He is not accused on light grounds , and if he denies his guilt , must still be tried . 
But trials are few , for in most cases the guilty man pleads guilty . 
When he makes a false plea and is clearly proved guilty , his penalty is doubled . 
Falsehood is , however , so despised among us that few offenders would lie to save themselves . 
That is the most astounding thing you have yet told me , I exclaimed . 
If lying has gone out of fashion , this is indeed the new heavens and the new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness , which the prophet foretold . 
Such is , in fact , the belief of some persons nowadays , was the doctor's answer . 
They hold that we have entered upon the millennium , and the theory from their point of view does not lack plausibility . 
But as to your astonishment at finding that the world has outgrown lying , there is really no ground for it . 
Falsehood , even in your day , was not common between gentlemen and ladies , social equals . 
The lie of fear was the refuge of cowardice , and the lie of fraud the device of the cheat . 
The inequalities of men and the lust of acquisition offered a constant premium on lying at that time . 
Yet even then , the man who neither feared another nor desired to defraud him scorned falsehood . 
When , however , a plea of not guilty is returned , the judge appoints two colleagues to state the opposite sides of the case . 
Do I understand , I said , that it is a judge who states each side of the case as well as a judge who hears it ? Certainly . 
The judges take turns in serving on the bench and at the bar , and are expected to maintain the judicial temper equally whether in stating or deciding a case . 
The system is indeed in effect that of trial by three judges occupying different points of view as to the case . 
When they agree upon a verdict , we believe it to be as near to absolute truth as men well can come . 
No conceivable motive but justice could actuate our judges . 
How are these magistrates selected ? They are an honorable exception to the rule which discharges all men from service at the age of forty five . 
The President of the nation appoints the necessary judges year by year from the class reaching that age . 
The term is five years , without eligibility to reappointment . 
The members of the Supreme Court , which is the guardian of the constitution , are selected from among the lower judges . 
There being no legal profession to serve as a school for judges , I said , they must , of course , come directly from the law school to the bench . 
We have no such things as law schools , replied the doctor smiling . 
The law as a special science is obsolete . 
Everything touching the relations of men to one another is now simpler , beyond any comparison , than in your day . 
We should have no sort of use for the hair splitting experts who presided and argued in your courts . 
You must not imagine , however , that we have any disrespect for those ancient worthies because we have no use for them . 
Our judges are simply widely informed , judicious , and discreet men of ripe years . 
I should not fail to speak of one important function of the minor judges , added Dr . 
This is to adjudicate all cases where a private of the industrial army makes a complaint of unfairness against an officer . 
All such questions are heard and settled without appeal by a single judge , three judges being required only in graver cases . 
The officer commands and the private obeys , but no officer is so high that he would dare display an overbearing manner toward a workman of the lowest class . 
As for churlishness or rudeness by an official of any sort , in his relations to the public , not one among minor offenses is more sure of a prompt penalty than this . 
Not only justice but civility is enforced by our judges in all sorts of intercourse . 
No value of service is accepted as a set off to boorish or offensive manners . 
It occurred to me , as Dr . 
Leete was speaking , that in all his talk I had heard much of the nation and nothing of the state governments . 
Had the organization of the nation as an industrial unit done away with the states ? I asked . 
The state governments would have interfered with the control and discipline of the industrial army , which , of course , required to be central and uniform . 
Even if the state governments had not become inconvenient for other reasons , they were rendered superfluous by the prodigious simplification in the task of government since your day . 
Almost the sole function of the administration now is that of directing the industries of the country . 
Most of the purposes for which governments formerly existed no longer remain to be subserved . 
We have no army or navy , and no military organization . 
We have no departments of state or treasury , no excise or revenue services , no taxes or tax collectors . 
The only function proper of government , as known to you , which still remains , is the judiciary and police system . 
I have already explained to you how simple is our judicial system as compared with your huge and complex machine . 
Of course the same absence of crime and temptation to it , which make the duties of judges so light , reduces the number and duties of the police to a minimum . 
But with no state legislatures , and Congress meeting only once in five years , how do you get your legislation done ? We have no legislation , replied Dr . 
Leete , that is , next to none . 
If you will consider a moment , Mr. West , you will see that we have nothing to make laws about . 
The fundamental principles on which our society is founded settle for all time the strifes and misunderstandings which in your day called for legislation . 
Fully ninety nine hundredths of the laws of that time concerned the definition and protection of private property and the relations of buyers and sellers . 
There is neither private property , beyond personal belongings , now , nor buying and selling , and therefore the occasion of nearly all the legislation formerly necessary has passed away . 
Formerly , society was a pyramid poised on its apex . 
, by an elaborate system of constantly renewed props and buttresses and guy ropes in the form of laws . 
Now society rests on its base , and is in as little need of artificial supports as the everlasting hills . 
This proportion , being assigned it as so much credit , can be applied in any way desired . 
Chapter That afternoon Edith casually inquired if I had yet revisited the underground chamber in the garden in which I had been found . 
Not yet , I replied . 
To be frank , I have shrunk thus far from doing so , lest the visit might revive old associations rather too strongly for my mental equilibrium . 
Ah , yes ! she said , I can imagine that you have done well to stay away . 
I ought to have thought of that . 
No , I said , I am glad you spoke of it . 
The danger , if there was any , existed only during the first day or two . 
Edith demurred at first , but , finding that I was in earnest , consented to accompany me . 
The rampart of earth thrown up from the excavation was visible among the trees from the house , and a few steps brought us to the spot . 
Descending the sloping sides of the excavation , we went in at the door and stood within the dimly lighted room . 
Everything was just as I had beheld it last on that evening one hundred and thirteen years previous , just before closing my eyes for that long sleep . 
I stood for some time silently looking about me . 
I saw that my companion was furtively regarding me with an expression of awed and sympathetic curiosity . 
I put out my hand to her and she placed hers in it , the soft fingers responding with a reassuring pressure to my clasp . 
Finally she whispered , Had we not better go out now ? You must not try yourself too far . 
Oh , how strange it must be to you ! On the contrary , I replied , it does not seem strange that is the strangest part of it . 
Not strange ? she echoed . 
Even so , I replied . 
The emotions with which you evidently credit me , and which I anticipated would attend this visit , I simply do not feel . 
I realize all that these surroundings suggest , but without the agitation I expected . 
You can't be nearly as much surprised at this as I am myself . 
Do you mean your memory is gone ? Not at all . 
I remember everything connected with my former life , but with a total lack of keen sensation . 
Perhaps it is possible to explain this , too . 
The effect of change in surroundings is like that of lapse of time in making the past seem remote . 
I fancy his feeling would be perhaps something as mine is . 
You have told us nothing yet of your friends , said Edith . 
Had you many to mourn you ? Thank God , I had very few relatives , none nearer than cousins , I replied . 
But there was one , not a relative , but dearer to me than any kin of blood . 
She was to have been my wife soon . 
Ah me ! Ah me ! sighed the Edith by my side . 
Think of the heartache she must have had . 
Something in the deep feeling of this gentle girl touched a chord in my benumbed heart . 
My eyes , before so dry , were flooded with the tears that had till now refused to come . 
When I had regained my composure , I saw that she too had been weeping freely . 
God bless your tender heart , I said . 
She took it with eagerness , and after poring long over the sweet face , touched the picture with her lips . 
Whatever her sorrow had once been , for nearly a century she had ceased to weep , and , my sudden passion spent , my own tears dried away . 
As we were about to leave the chamber , my eye rested upon the great iron safe which stood in one corner . 
Calling my companion's attention to it , I said This was my strong room as well as my sleeping room . 
In the safe yonder are several thousand dollars in gold , and any amount of securities . 
That a time would ever come when it would lose its purchasing power , I should have considered the wildest of fancies . 
Nevertheless , here I wake up to find myself among a people of whom a cartload of gold will not procure a loaf of bread . 
As might be expected , I did not succeed in impressing Edith that there was anything remarkable in this fact . 
Why in the world should it ? she merely asked . 
Chapter It had been suggested by Dr . 
We should think we had gained nothing worth speaking of , in equalizing the physical comfort of men , without this educational equality . 
The cost must be very great , I said . 
If it took half the revenue of the nation , nobody would grudge it , replied Dr . 
Leete , nor even if it took it all save a bare pittance . 
But in truth the expense of educating ten thousand youth is not ten nor five times that of educating one thousand . 
The principle which makes all operations on a large scale proportionally cheaper than on a small scale holds as to education also . 
College education was terribly expensive in my day , said I. If I have not been misinformed by our historians , Dr . 
Leete answered , it was not college education but college dissipation and extravagance which cost so highly . 
The actual expense of your colleges appears to have been very low , and would have been far lower if their patronage had been greater . 
The higher education nowadays is as cheap as the lower , as all grades of teachers , like all other workers , receive the same support . 
Setting aside the actual cost of these additional years of education , I replied , we should not have thought we could afford the loss of time from industrial pursuits . 
Boys of the poorer classes usually went to work at sixteen or younger , and knew their trade at twenty . 
We should not concede you any gain even in material product by that plan , Dr . 
The greater efficiency which education gives to all sorts of labor , except the rudest , makes up in a short period for the time lost in acquiring it . 
We should also have been afraid , said I , that a high education , while it adapted men to the professions , would set them against manual labor of all sorts . 
There is no such class now . 
After all , I remarked , no amount of education can cure natural dullness or make up for original mental deficiencies . 
Unless the average natural mental capacity of men is much above its level in my day , a high education must be pretty nearly thrown away on a large element of the population . 
Leete , I am glad you used that illustration , for it is just the one I would have chosen to set forth the modern view of education . 
You say that land so poor that the product will not repay the labor of tilling is not cultivated . 
Nevertheless , much land that does not begin to repay tilling by its product was cultivated in your day and is in ours . 
They are therefore tilled , and though their product is little , there is yet no land that , in a wider sense , better repays cultivation . 
The naturally refined and intellectual can better dispense with aids to culture than those less fortunate in natural endowments . 
The cultured man in your age was like one up to the neck in a nauseous bog solacing himself with a smelling bottle . 
You see , perhaps , now , how we look at this question of universal high education . 
No single thing is so important to every man as to have for neighbors intelligent , companionable persons . 
There is nothing , therefore , which the nation can do for him that will enhance so much his own happiness as to educate his neighbors . 
All have some inkling of the humanities , some appreciation of the things of the mind , and an admiration for the still higher culture they have fallen short of . 
They have become capable of receiving and imparting , in various degrees , but all in some measure , the pleasures and inspirations of a refined social life . 
One generation of the world to day represents a greater volume of intellectual life than any five centuries ever did before . 
There is still another point I should mention in stating the grounds on which nothing less than the universality of the best education could now be tolerated , continued Dr . 
Leete , and that is , the interest of the coming generation in having educated parents . 
I shall not describe in detail what I saw in the schools that day . 
Having taken but slight interest in educational matters in my former life , I could offer few comparisons of interest . 
The faculty of education , Dr . 
Leete explained , is held to the same responsibility for the bodies as for the minds of its charges . 
The highest possible physical , as well as mental , development of every one is the double object of a curriculum which lasts from the age of six to that of twenty one . 
The magnificent health of the young people in the schools impressed me strongly . 
He listened with great interest to what I said . 
Your testimony on this point , he declared , is invaluable . 
We believe that there has been such an improvement as you speak of , but of course it could only be a matter of theory with us . 
It is an incident of your unique position that you alone in the world of to day can speak with authority on this point . 
Your opinion , when you state it publicly , will , I assure you , make a profound sensation . 
For the rest it would be strange , certainly , if the race did not show an improvement . 
In your day , riches debauched one class with idleness of mind and body , while poverty sapped the vitality of the masses by overwork , bad food , and pestilent homes . 
The labor required of children , and the burdens laid on women , enfeebled the very springs of life . 
Certainly , an improvement of the species ought to follow such a change . 
In certain specific respects we know , indeed , that the improvement has taken place . 
Insanity , for instance , which in the nineteenth century was so terribly common a product of your insane mode of life , has almost disappeared , with its alternative , suicide . 
How is it that you have so much more ? That is a very pertinent question , Mr. West , replied Dr . 
Leete , and I should not blame your friends , in the case you supposed , if they declared your story all moonshine , failing a satisfactory reply to it . 
Let us begin with a number of small items wherein we economize wealth as compared with you . 
We have no national , state , county , or municipal debts , or payments on their account . 
We have no sort of military or naval expenditures for men or materials , no army , navy , or militia . 
We have no revenue service , no swarm of tax assessors and collectors . 
As regards our judiciary , police , sheriffs , and jailers , the force which Massachusetts alone kept on foot in your day far more than suffices for the nation now . 
We have no criminal class preying upon the wealth of society as you had . 
Also consider that the waste of the very rich in your day on inordinate personal luxury has ceased , though , indeed , this item might easily be over estimated . 
Again , consider that there are no idlers now , rich or poor no drones . 
Something of what our distributing system is like you know . 
I begin to see , I said , where you get your greater wealth . 
I beg your pardon , replied Dr . 
Leete , but you scarcely do as yet . 
These items are , however , scarcely worth mentioning in comparison with other prodigious wastes , now saved , which resulted inevitably from leaving the industries of the nation to private enterprise . 
Any one of these four great leaks , were all the others stopped , would suffice to make the difference between wealth and poverty on the part of a nation . 
Take the waste by mistaken undertakings , to begin with . 
Therefore , any enterprise by a private capitalist was always a doubtful experiment . 
The next of the great wastes was that from competition . 
As for mercy or quarter in this warfare , there was absolutely no suggestion of it . 
This certainly seems like sheer madness , a scene from bedlam . 
But more closely regarded , it is seen to be no such thing . 
Your contemporaries , with their mutual throat cutting , knew very well what they were at . 
If , in working to this end , he at the same time increased the aggregate wealth , that was merely incidental . 
It was just as feasible and as common to increase one's private hoard by practices injurious to the general welfare . 
It was for his interest that no more of it should be produced than he himself could produce . 
To secure this consummation as far as circumstances permitted , by killing off and discouraging those engaged in his line of industry , was his constant effort . 
This , Mr. West , is what was called in the nineteenth century a system of production . 
I will leave it to you if it does not seem , in some of its aspects , a great deal more like a system for preventing production . 
I assure you that the wonder with us is , not that the world did not get rich under such a system , but that it did not perish outright from want . 
This wonder increases as we go on to consider some of the other prodigious wastes that characterized it . 
Then would ensue another brief season of prosperity , followed in turn by another crisis and the ensuing years of exhaustion . 
So far as considering the causes of the trouble inherent in their industrial system , your contemporaries were certainly correct . 
They were in its very basis , and must needs become more and more maleficent as the business fabric grew in size and complexity . 
One of these causes was the lack of any common control of the different industries , and the consequent impossibility of their orderly and coordinate development . 
It inevitably resulted from this lack that they were continually getting out of step with one another and out of relation with the demand . 
This process was constantly going on in many industries , even in what were called good times , but a crisis took place only when the industries affected were extensive . 
The markets then were glutted with goods , of which nobody wanted beyond a sufficiency at any price . 
The crisis was by this time fairly under way , and nothing could check it till a nation's ransom had been wasted . 
A cause , also inherent in your system , which often produced and always terribly aggravated crises , was the machinery of money and credit . 
Money was essential when production was in many private hands , and buying and selling was necessary to secure what one wanted . 
It was , however , open to the obvious objection of substituting for food , clothing , and other things a merely conventional representative of them . 
The confusion of mind which this favored , between goods and their representative , led the way to the credit system and its prodigious illusions . 
Already accustomed to accept money for commodities , the people next accepted promises for money , and ceased to look at all behind the representative for the thing represented . 
Money was a sign of real commodities , but credit was but the sign of a sign . 
Under such a system , frequent and periodical crises were necessitated by a law as absolute as that which brings to the ground a structure overhanging its centre of gravity . 
The great extension of the credit system was a characteristic of the latter part of the nineteenth century , and accounts largely for the almost incessant business crises which marked that period . 
It was the misfortune of your contemporaries that they had to cement their business fabric with a material which an accident might at any moment turn into an explosive . 
They were in the plight of a man building a house with dynamite for mortar , for credit can be compared with nothing else . 
Even suppose by an error of judgment an excessive production of some commodity . 
The consequent slackening or cessation of production in that line throws nobody out of employment . 
Of course , having not even money , we still less have credit . 
All estimates deal directly with the real things , the flour , iron , wood , wool , and labor , of which money and credit were for you the very misleading representatives . 
In our calcula tion of cost there can be no mistakes . 
Out of the annual product the amount necessary for the support of the people is taken , and the requisite labor to produce the next year's consumption provided for . 
The residue of the material and labor represents what can be safely expended in improvements . 
If the crops are bad , the surplus for that year is less than usual , that is all . 
With us it is the business of the administration to keep in constant employment every ounce of available capital and labor in the country . 
In your day there was no general control of either capital or labor , and a large part of both failed to find employment . 
There was no time when , if security could have been guaranteed it , the amount of capital devoted to productive industry could not have been greatly increased . 
It should be also noted that the great amount of capital always seeking employment where tolerable safety could be insured terribly embittered the competition between capitalists when a promising opening presented itself . 
The idleness of capital , the result of its timidity , of course meant the idleness of labor in corresponding degree . 
A great number of these seekers after employment were constantly traversing the country , becoming in time professional vagabonds , then criminals . 
These alone , you must admit , would pretty well explain why the nation is so much richer than in your day . 
But the larger half of our advantage over you , the positive side of it , I have yet barely spoken of . 
Suppose , also , there were no neutralizing and duplicating of effort from competition . 
Suppose , also , there were no waste from business panics and crises through bankruptcy and long interruptions of industry , and also none from the idleness of capital and labor . 
You used to have some pretty large textile manufacturing establishments , even in your day , although not comparable with ours . 
You have admired the vast economy of labor as of mechanical force resulting from the perfect interworking with the rest of every wheel and every hand . 
No doubt you have reflected how much less the same force of workers employed in that factory would accomplish if they were scattered , each man working independently . 
After what you have told me , I said , I do not so much wonder that the nation is richer now than then , but that you are not all Croesuses . 
Leete , we are pretty well off . 
The rate at which we live is as luxurious as we could wish . 
You have not begun to see how we live yet , Mr. West . 
At home we have comfort , but the splendor of our life is , on its social side , that which we share with our fellows . 
I suppose , observed Dr . 
Nevertheless that is just the verdict history has passed on them . 
Their system of unorganized and antagonistic industries was as absurd economically as it was morally abominable . 
Selfishness was their only science , and in industrial production selfishness is suicide . 
I am quite sure it is not that , she replied , encouragingly . 
An eavesdropper ! she repeated , looking puzzled . 
Yes , I said , but an excusable one , as I think you will admit . 
This is very mysterious , she replied . 
Yes , said I , so mysterious that often I have doubted whether I really overheard at all what I am going to ask you about , or only dreamed it . 
I want you to tell me . 
First , I remember your father's voice saying , He is going to open his eyes . 
He had better see but one person at first . 
Then you said , if I did not dream it all , Promise me , then , that you will not tell him . 
Your father seemed to hesitate about promising , but you insisted , and your mother interposing , he finally promised , and when I opened my eyes I saw only him . 
For from the moment that the drift of my question became apparent , she showed indications of the most acute embarrassment . 
Her eyes , always so frank and direct in expression , had dropped in a panic before mine , while her face crimsoned from neck to forehead . 
Pardon me , I said , as soon as I had recovered from bewilderment at the extraordinary effect of my words . 
It seems , then , that I was not dreaming . 
There is some secret , something about me , which you are withholding from me . 
It is not about you exactly , she replied , scarcely audibly . 
But it concerns me in some way , I persisted . 
It must be something that would interest me . 
Your father would have told me , I insisted , with an accent of reproach . 
It was you who forbade him . 
He thought I ought to know . 
She was so entirely charming in her confusion that I was now prompted , as much by the desire to prolong the situation as by my original curiosity , to importune her further . 
Am I never to know ? Will you never tell me ? I said . 
It depends , she answered , after a long pause . 
On what ? I persisted . 
Ah , you ask too much , she replied . 
After that she took good care that the music should leave no opportunity for conversation . 
To such an appeal there was but one reply possible . 
Forgive me for distressing you . 
Of course I will promise , I said . 
I would never have asked you if I had fancied it could distress you . 
But do you blame me for being curious ? I do not blame you at all . 
And some time , I added , if I do not tease you , you may tell me of your own accord . 
May I not hope so ? Perhaps , she murmured . 
Only perhaps ? Looking up , she read my face with a quick , deep glance . 
Yes , she said , I think I may tell you some time and so our conversation ended , for she gave me no chance to say anything more . 
That night I don't think even Dr . 
Pillsbury could have put me to sleep , till toward morning at least . 
It was a double mystery . 
I am usually of too practical a turn to waste time on such conundrums but the difficulty of a riddle embodied in a beautiful young girl does not detract from its fascination . 
Chapter In the morning I went down stairs early in the hope of seeing Edith alone . 
In this , however , I was disappointed . 
Not finding her in the house , I sought her in the garden , but she was not there . 
In the course of my wanderings I visited the underground chamber , and sat down there to rest . 
Upon the reading table in the chamber several periodicals and newspapers lay , and thinking that Dr . 
Leete might be interested in glancing over a Boston daily of , I brought one of the papers with me into the house when I came . 
At breakfast I met Edith . 
She blushed as she greeted me , but was perfectly self possessed . 
As we sat at table , Dr . 
Leete amused himself with looking over the paper I had brought in . 
They had nothing to do with it except to hinder it , of course , replied Dr . 
They did that very effectually while they lasted , for their talk so disgusted people as to deprive the best considered projects for social reform of a hearing . 
The subsidizing of those fellows was one of the shrewdest moves of the opponents of reform . 
Subsidizing them ! I exclaimed in astonishment . 
What astonishes me most is that you should have fallen into the trap so unsuspectingly . 
What are your grounds for believing that the red flag party was subsidized ? I inquired . 
Why simply because they must have seen that their course made a thousand enemies of their professed cause to one friend . 
Not to suppose that they were hired for the work is to credit them with an inconceivable folly . 
It certainly was not held at the time by any one , though it may seem so obvious in the retrospect . 
The national party ! I exclaimed . 
That must have arisen after my day . 
I suppose it was one of the labor parties . 
Oh no ! replied the doctor . 
The labor parties , as such , never could have accomplished anything on a large or permanent scale . 
For purposes of national scope , their basis as merely class organizations was too narrow . 
Then the national party arose to carry it out by political methods . 
It probably took that name because its aim was to nationalize the functions of production and distribution . 
Finding an opportunity that day , when alone with Dr . 
Leete , I turned the conversation in that direction . 
I suppose , I said , that women nowadays , having been relieved of the burden of housework , have no employment but the cultivation of their charms and graces . 
So far as we men are concerned , replied Dr . 
Our women , as well as our men , are members of the industrial army , and leave it only when maternal duties claim them . 
A woman does not , then , necessarily leave the industrial service on marriage ? I queried . 
No more than a man , replied the doctor . 
Why on earth should she ? Married women have no housekeeping responsibilities now , you know , and a husband is not a baby that he should be cared for . 
Indeed we do , just as we do out of our men . 
Yet the women of this age are very happy , and those of the nineteenth century , unless contemporary references greatly mislead us , were very miserable . 
The heavier sorts of work are everywhere reserved for men , the lighter occupations for women . 
Under no circumstances is a woman permitted to follow any employment not perfectly adapted , both as to kind and degree of labor , to her sex . 
Moreover , the hours of women's work are considerably shorter than those of men's , more frequent vacations are granted , and the most careful provision is made for rest when needed . 
Leete , and constitute rather an allied force than an integral part of the army of the men . 
They have a woman general in chief and are under exclusively feminine regime . 
The general of the women's army sits in the cabinet of the President and has a veto on measures respecting women's work , pending appeals to Congress . 
I should have said , in speaking of the judiciary , that we have women on the bench , appointed by the general of the women , as well as men . 
Womanhood seems to be organized as a sort of imperium in imperio in your system , I said . 
To some extent , Dr . 
Leete replied but the inner imperium is one from which you will admit there is not likely to be much danger to the nation . 
The lack of some such recognition of the distinct individuality of the sexes was one of the innumerable defects of your society . 
In your day there was no career for women except in an unnatural rivalry with men . 
We have given them a world of their own , with its emulations , ambitions , and careers , and I assure you they are very happy in it . 
It seems to us that women were more than any other class the victims of your civilization . 
I speak now , not of the poorer classes , who were generally worked to death , but also of the well to do and rich . 
Such an existence would have softened men's brains or driven them mad . 
All that is changed to day . 
No woman is heard nowadays wishing she were a man , nor parents desiring boy rather than girl children . 
Our girls are as full of ambition for their careers as our boys . 
Only when maternity fills a woman's mind with new interests does she withdraw from the world for a time . 
Afterward , and at any time , she may return to her place among her comrades , nor need she ever lose touch with them . 
Have no anxiety on that score , Mr. West , he replied . 
The Creator took very good care that whatever other modifications the dispositions of men and women might with time take on , their attraction for each other should remain constant . 
That , however , I beg you to believe , is something of an exaggestion . 
Are credit cards issued to the women just as to the men ? Certainly . 
The credits of the women , I suppose , are for smaller sums , owing to the frequent suspension of their labor on account of family responsibilities . 
Leete , oh , no ! The maintenance of all our people is the same . 
It would seem to follow , from what you have said , that wives are in no way dependent on their husbands for maintenance . 
Of course they are not , replied Dr . 
Leete , nor children on their parents either , that is , for means of support , though of course they are for the offices of affection . 
That any person should be dependent for the means of support upon another would be shocking to the moral sense as well as indefensible on any rational social theory . 
What would become of personal liberty and dignity under such an arrangement ? I am aware that you called yourselves free in the nineteenth century . 
I must bear my share of responsibility for the world as it then was , I replied . 
All I can say in extenuation is that until the nation was ripe for the present system of organized production and distribution , no radical improvement in the position of woman was possible . 
I suppose , by the way , that so entire a change in the position of women cannot have taken place without affecting in marked ways the social relations of the sexes . 
That will be a very interesting study for me . 
The change you will observe , said Dr . 
The sexes now meet with the ease of perfect equals , suitors to each other for nothing but love . 
In your time the fact that women were dependent for support on men made the woman in reality the one chiefly benefited by marriage . 
To keep up this convention it was essential that he should always seem the suitor . 
Nothing was therefore considered more shocking to the proprieties than that a woman should betray a fondness for a man before he had indicated a desire to marry her . 
All this seems exquisitely absurd to us , and yet we know that , given your circumstances , the problem might have a serious side . 
I may say that Dr . 
Leete's warning has been fully justified by my experience . 
And so the girls of the twentieth century tell their love . 
If they choose , replied Dr . 
There is no more pretense of a concealment of feeling on their part than on the part of their lovers . 
Coquetry would be as much despised in a girl as in a man . 
Affected coldness , which in your day rarely deceived a lover , would deceive him wholly now , for no one thinks of practicing it . 
One result which must follow from the independence of women I can see for myself , I said . 
There can be no marriages now except those of inclination . 
That is a matter of course , replied Dr . 
Think of a world in which there are nothing but matches of pure love ! Ah me , Dr . 
But the fact you celebrate , that there are nothing but love matches , means even more , perhaps , than you probably at first realize . 
The necessities of poverty , the need of having a home , no longer tempt women to accept as the fathers of their children men whom they neither can love nor respect . 
Wealth and rank no longer divert attention from personal qualities . 
Gold no longer gilds the straitened forehead of the fool . 
The gifts of person , mind , and disposition beauty , wit , eloquence , kindness , generosity , geniality , courage , are sure of transmission to posterity . 
Every generation is sifted through a little finer mesh than the last . 
The attributes that human nature admires are preserved , those that repel it are left behind . 
These form nowadays the only aristocracy with which alliance is distinction . 
You were speaking , a day or two ago , of the physical superiority of our people to your contemporaries . 
Perhaps more important than any of the causes I mentioned then as tending to race purification has been the effect of untrammeled sexual selection upon the quality of two or three successive generations . 
I believe that when you have made a fuller study of our people you will find in them not only a physical , but a mental and moral improvement . 
Of all the whips , and spurs , and baits , and prizes , there is none like the thought of the radiant faces which the laggards will find averted . 
Celibates nowadays are almost invariably men who have failed to acquit themselves creditably in the work of life . 
I should add that , more exacting and difficult to resist than any other element in that opinion , she would find the sentiment of her own sex . 
Our women have risen to the full height of their responsibility as the wardens of the world to come , to whose keeping the keys of the future are confided . 
Their feeling of duty in this respect amounts to a sense of religious consecration . 
It is a cult in which they educate their daughters from childhood . 
After going to my room that night , I sat up late to read a romance of Berrian , handed me by Dr . 
Leete , the plot of which turned on a situation suggested by his last words , concerning the modern view of parental responsibility . 
As we acquit ourselves toward them , so let Him deal with us . 
Chapter I think if a person were ever excusable for losing track of the days of the week , the circumstances excused me . 
The first time that any inquiry as to the days of the week occurred to me was the morning following the conversation related in the last chapter . 
At the breakfast table Dr . 
Leete asked me if I would care to hear a sermon . 
Is it Sunday , then ? I exclaimed . 
It was on Friday , you see , when we made the lucky discovery of the buried chamber to which we owe your society this morning . 
It was on Saturday morning , soon after midnight , that you first awoke , and Sunday afternoon when you awoke the second time with faculties fully regained . 
So you still have Sundays and sermons , I said . 
We had prophets who foretold that long before this time the world would have dispensed with both . 
I am very curious to know how the ecclesiastical systems fit in with the rest of your social arrangements . 
I suppose you have a sort of national church with official clergymen . 
Leete laughed , and Mrs. Leete and Edith seemed greatly amused . 
Why , Mr. West , Edith said , what odd people you must think us . 
The religious practices of the people have naturally changed considerably in a century , replied Dr . 
Leete but supposing them to have remained unchanged , our social system would accommodate them perfectly . 
The nation supplies any person or number of persons with buildings on guarantee of the rent , and they remain tenants while they pay it . 
Now , as to hearing a sermon to day , if you wish to do so , you can either go to a church to hear it or stay at home . 
How am I to hear it if I stay at home ? Simply by accompanying us to the music room at the proper hour and selecting an easy chair . 
I see by the paper that Mr. Barton is to preach this morning , and he preaches only by telephone , and to audiences often reaching , . 
The novelty of the experience of hearing a sermon under such circumstances would incline me to be one of Mr. Barton's hearers , if for no other reason , I said . 
An hour or two later , as I sat reading in the library , Edith came for me , and I followed her to the music room , where Dr . 
and Mrs. Leete were waiting . 
This was what the voice said MR . 
BARTON'S SERMON We have had among us , during the past week , a critic from the nineteenth century , a living representative of the epoch of our great grandparents . 
It would be strange if a fact so extraordinary had not somewhat strongly affected our imaginations . 
Perhaps most of us have been stimulated to some effort to realize the society of a century ago , and figure to ourselves what it must have been like to live then . 
In inviting you now to consider certain reflections upon this subject which have occurred to me , I presume that I shall rather follow than divert the course of your own thoughts . 
Edith whispered something to her father at this point , to which he nodded assent and turned to me . 
She will connect us with Mr. Sweetser's speaking room if you say so , and I can still promise you a very good discourse . 
No , no , I said . 
Believe me , I would much rather hear what Mr. Barton has to say . 
As you please , replied my host . 
When her father spoke to me Edith had touched a screw , and the voice of Mr. Barton had ceased abruptly . 
Now at another touch the room was once more filled with the earnest sympathetic tones which had already impressed me most favorably . 
It is not necessary to suppose a moral new birth of humanity , or a wholesale destruction of the wicked and survival of the good , to account for the fact before us . 
It finds its simple and obvious explanation in the reaction of a changed environment upon human nature . 
No doubt it seems to you that no necessity , however dire , would have tempted you to subsist on what superior skill or strength enabled you to wrest from others equally needy . 
But suppose it were not merely your own life that you were responsible for . 
But this he was not permitted to do . 
He had dear lives dependent on him . 
Men loved women in those days , as now . 
God knows how they dared be fathers , but they had babies as sweet , no doubt , to them as ours to us , whom they must feed , clothe , educate . 
The gentlest creatures are fierce when they have young to provide for , and in that wolfish society the struggle for bread borrowed a peculiar desperation from the tenderest sentiments . 
Even the ministers of religion were not exempt from this cruel necessity . 
While they warned their flocks against the love of money , regard for their families compelled them to keep an outlook for the pecuniary prizes of their calling . 
A number of English prisoners were shut up in a room containing not enough air to supply one tenth their number . 
They were at least all men , strong to bear , who suffered . 
Some observation of the state of men's minds during the last quarter of the nineteenth century will , however , in great measure , dissipate this astonishment . 
The inevitable consequence of even this comparative degree of intelligence had been a perception of the evils of society , such as had never before been general . 
It is quite true that these evils had been even worse , much worse , in previous ages . 
It was the increased intelligence of the masses which made the difference , as the dawn reveals the squalor of surroundings which in the darkness may have seemed tolerable . 
I could read you passages of great beauty from some of their writers which show that the conception was clearly attained by a few , and no doubt vaguely by many more . 
Feeling that the condition of the race was unendurable , they had no clear hope of anything better . 
They believed that the evolution of humanity had resulted in leading it into a cul de sac , and that there was no way of getting forward . 
Despising themselves , they despised their Creator . 
There was a general decay of religious belief . 
Pale and watery gleams , from skies thickly veiled by doubt and dread , alone lighted up the chaos of earth . 
The dawn has come since then . 
It is very easy to believe in the fatherhood of God in the twentieth century . 
To wonder at the rapidity with which the change was completed after its possibility was first entertained is to forget the intoxicating effect of hope upon minds long accustomed to despair . 
The sunburst , after so long and dark a night , must needs have had a dazzling effect . 
It is evident that nothing was able to stand against the enthusiasm which the new faith inspired . 
Here , at last , men must have felt , was a cause compared with which the grandest of historic causes had been trivial . 
It was doubtless because it could have commanded millions of martyrs , that none were needed . 
In the time of one generation men laid aside the social traditions and practices of barbarians , and assumed a social order worthy of rational and human beings . 
Ceasing to be predatory in their habits , they became co workers , and found in fraternity , at once , the science of wealth and happiness . 
What shall I eat and drink , and wherewithal shall I be clothed ? stated as a problem beginning and ending in self , had been an anxious and an endless one . 
Human slavery , so often vainly scotched , at last was killed . 
It was impossible for a man any longer to use his fellow men as tools for his own profit . 
His esteem was the only sort of gain he could thenceforth make out of him . 
There was no more either arrogance or servility in the relations of human beings to one another . 
For the first time since the creation every man stood up straight before God . 
The fear of want and the lust of gain became extinct motives when abundance was assured to all and immoderate possessions made impossible of attainment . 
There were no more beggars nor almoners . 
Equity left charity without an occupation . 
Humanity's ancient dream of liberty , equality , fraternity , mocked by so many ages , at last was realized . 
Innumerable generations of gardeners had done their best to make it bloom , but beyond an occasional half opened bud with a worm at the heart , their efforts had been unsuccessful . 
Many , indeed , claimed that the bush was no rosebush at all , but a noxious shrub , fit only to be uprooted and burned . 
But these persons were not regular gardeners , and being condemned by the latter as mere theorists and day dreamers , were , for the most part , so regarded by the people . 
The regular gardeners and the moral philosophers had their way . 
The bush remained rooted in the bog , and the old course of treatment went on . 
This went on a very long time . 
On the whole there could not be said to be any marked change . 
Finally , during a period of general despondency as to the prospects of the bush where it was , the idea of transplanting it was again mooted , and this time found favor . 
Let us try it , was the general voice . 
Perhaps it may thrive better elsewhere , and here it is certainly doubtful if it be worth cultivating longer . 
Then it appeared that it was indeed a rosebush . 
The vermin and the mildew disappeared , and the bush was covered with most beautiful red roses , whose fragrance filled the world . 
They would have confounded it with their idea of heaven , nor dreamed that there could possibly lie further beyond anything to be desired or striven for . 
It is a strain on our imaginations to conceive the social arrangements of our immediate ancestors . 
We have but relieved ourselves of an impertinent and needless harassment which hindered our ancestor from undertaking the real ends of existence . 
We are merely stripped for the race no more . 
We are like a child which has just learned to stand upright and to walk . 
It is a great event , from the child's point of view , when he first walks . 
Perhaps he fancies that there can be little beyond that achievement , but a year later he has forgotten that he could not always walk . 
His horizon did but widen when he rose , and enlarge as he moved . 
A great event indeed , in one sense , was his first step , but only as a beginning , not as the end . 
His true career was but then first entered on . 
Since then , humanity has entered on a new phase of spiritual development , an evolution of higher faculties , the very existence of which in human nature our ancestors scarcely suspected . 
The betterment of mankind from generation to generation , physically , mentally , morally , is recognized as the one great object supremely worthy of effort and of sacrifice . 
We believe the race for the first time to have entered on the realization of God's ideal of it , and each generation must now be a step upward . 
Do you ask what we look for when unnumbered generations shall have passed away ? I answer , the way stretches far before us , but the end is lost in light . 
With a tear for the dark past , turn we then to the dazzling future , and , veiling our eyes , press forward . 
The long and weary winter of the race is ended . 
Humanity has burst the chrysalis . 
The heavens are before it . 
The extraordinary kindness with which I had been treated by Dr . 
The recognition of this , as regarded Dr . 
Leete and his amiable wife , however painful , I might have endured , but the conviction that Edith must share their feeling was more than I could bear . 
The crushing effect with which this belated perception of a fact so obvious came to me opened my eyes fully to something which perhaps the reader has already suspected , I loved Edith . 
It was quite inevitable that she should have come to seem to me , in a sense quite different from the usual experience of lovers , the only woman in this world . 
My hosts evidently saw that I was depressed in spirits , and did their best to divert me . 
Toward nightfall , after secluding myself in my room most of the afternoon , I went into the garden to walk about . 
The day was overcast , with an autumnal flavor in the warm , still air . 
Finding myself near the excavation , I entered the subterranean chamber and sat down there . 
This , I muttered to myself , is the only home I have . 
Let me stay here , and not go forth any more . 
There was no longer any life in them . 
For nearly one hundred years the stars had been looking down on Edith Bartlett's grave , and the graves of all my generation . 
The past was dead , crushed beneath a century's weight , and from the present I was shut out . 
There was no place for me anywhere . 
I was neither dead nor properly alive . 
Forgive me for following you . 
Edith stood in the door of the subterranean room , regarding me smilingly , but with eyes full of sympathetic distress . 
You have not kept your word . 
I was feeling a little lonely , that is all , I said . 
Are we not your friends ? It is your own fault if you will not let us be . 
You need not be lonely . 
You are good to me beyond my power of understanding , I said , but don't you suppose that I know it is pity merely , sweet pity , but pity only . 
But Mr. Barton's sermon taught me how vain such a fancy is , how great the gulf between us must seem to you . 
Oh that miserable sermon ! she exclaimed , fairly crying now in her sympathy , I wanted you not to hear it . 
What does he know of you ? He has read in old musty books about your times , that is all . 
I can't have it so . 
In her face , pity contended in a sort of divine spite against the obstacles which reduced it to impotence . 
Womanly compassion surely never wore a guise more lovely . 
Such beauty and such goodness quite melted me , and it seemed that the only fitting response I could make was to tell her just the truth . 
Of course I had not a spark of hope , but on the other hand I had no fear that she would be angry . 
She was too pitiful for that . 
So I said presently , It is very ungrateful in me not to be satisfied with such kindness as you have shown me , and are showing me now . 
For some moments she stood so , panting a little . 
Then blushing deeper than ever , but with a dazzling smile , she looked up . 
Are you sure it is not you who are blind ? she said . 
Still , I half believed I must be under some blissful hallucination even as I clasped her in my arms . 
If I am beside myself , I cried , let me remain so . 
It is I whom you must think beside myself , she panted , escaping from my arms when I had barely tasted the sweetness of her lips . 
No , no you must not touch me again till you know who I am . 
After that , sir , you shall apologize to me very humbly for thinking , as I know you do , that I have been over quick to fall in love with you . 
Having come where her mother was , she blushingly whispered something in her ear and ran away , leaving us together . 
It then appeared that , strange as my experience had been , I was now first to know what was perhaps its strangest feature . 
From Mrs. Leete I learned that Edith was the great granddaughter of no other than my lost love , Edith Bartlett . 
After mourning me for fourteen years , she had made a marriage of esteem , and left a son who had been Mrs. Leete's father . 
Mrs. Leete had never seen her grandmother , but had heard much of her , and , when her daughter was born , gave her the name of Edith . 
A portrait of Edith Bartlett and some of her papers , including a packet of my own letters , were among the family heirlooms . 
The picture represented a very beautiful young woman about whom it was easy to imagine all manner of tender and romantic things . 
My letters gave Edith some material for forming a distinct idea of my personality , and both together sufficed to make the sad old story very real to her . 
She used to tell her parents , half jestingly , that she would never marry till she found a lover like Julian West , and there were none such nowadays . 
The presumption of some subtle ordering of destiny , involving her fate with mine , would under all circumstances have possessed an irresistible fascination for almost any woman . 
From Mrs. Leete I went to Edith . 
When I found her , it was first of all to take her by both hands and stand a long time in rapt contemplation of her face . 
For she who brought to me so poignantly the sense of my loss was to make that loss good . 
It was as if from her eyes Edith Bartlett looked into mine , and smiled consolation to me . 
My fate was not alone the strangest , but the most fortunate that ever befell a man . 
A double miracle had been wrought for me . 
I had not been stranded upon the shore of this strange world to find myself alone and companionless . 
My love , whom I had dreamed lost , had been reembodied for my consolation . 
I was not long in finding that on Edith's part there was a corresponding confusion of identities . 
Never , surely , was there between freshly united lovers a stranger talk than ours that afternoon . 
You must not love me too much for myself , she said . 
I shall be very jealous for her . 
I shall not let you forget her . 
I am going to tell you something which you may think strange . 
I cannot know it of course none of us can know who we really are but I can feel it . 
Can you wonder that I have such a feeling , seeing how my life was affected by her and by you , even before you came . 
So you see you need not trouble to love me at all , if only you are true to her . 
I shall not be likely to be jealous . 
Leete had gone out that afternoon , and I did not have an interview with him till later . 
He was not , apparently , wholly unprepared for the intelligence I conveyed , and shook my hand heartily . 
Under any ordinary circumstances , Mr. West , I should say that this step had been taken on rather short acquaintance but these are decidedly not ordinary circumstances . 
From the moment the secret of the locket was out , it had to be , I fancy . 
Why , bless me , if Edith had not been there to redeem her great grandmother's pledge , I really apprehend that Mrs. Leete's loyalty to me would have suffered a severe strain . 
That evening the garden was bathed in moonlight , and till midnight Edith and I wandered to and fro there , trying to grow accustomed to our happiness . 
What should I have done if you had not cared for me ? she exclaimed . 
I was afraid you were not going to . 
Of course it was , Edith laughed . 
Did you only just guess that ? Father being only a man , thought that it would make you feel among friends to tell you who we were . 
He did not think of me at all . 
But mother knew what I meant , and so I had my way . 
I could never have looked you in the face if you had known who I was . 
It would have been forcing myself on you quite too boldly . 
I am afraid you think I did that to day , as it was . 
I am sure I did not mean to , for I know girls were expected to hide their feelings in your day , and I was dreadfully afraid of shocking you . 
Ah me , how hard it must have been for them to have always had to conceal their love like a fault . 
Why did they think it such a shame to love any one till they had been given permission ? It is so odd to think of waiting for permission to fall in love . 
I don't understand it at all . 
That will be one of the curious things about the women of those days that you will have to explain to me . 
I don't believe Edith Bartlett was so foolish as the others . 
After sundry ineffectual attempts at parting , she finally insisted that we must say good night . 
I was about to imprint upon her lips the positively last kiss , when she said , with an indescribable archness One thing troubles me . 
It would be a great relief to me if I could feel sure that you were not in the least jealous of my great grandfather for marrying your sweetheart . 
The absurdity of this frame of mind could only be equalled by the abruptness with which it dissolved as Edith's roguish query cleared the fog from my perceptions . 
I laughed as I kissed her . 
On reaching my chamber that night I did not open the musical telephone that I might be lulled to sleep with soothing tunes , as had become my habit . 
For once my thoughts made better music than even twentieth century orchestras discourse , and it held me enchanted till well toward morning , when I fell asleep . 
Chapter It's a little after the time you told me to wake you , sir . 
You did not come out of it as quick as common , sir . 
The voice was the voice of my man Sawyer . 
I started bolt upright in bed and stared around . 
I was in my underground chamber . 
The mellow light of the lamp which always burned in the room when I occupied it illumined the familiar walls and furnishings . 
By my bedside , with the glass of sherry in his hand which Dr . 
Pillsbury prescribed on first rousing from a mesmeric sleep , by way of awakening the torpid physical functions , stood Sawyer . 
Better take this right off , sir , he said , as I stared blankly at him . 
You look kind of flushed like , sir , and you need it . 
I tossed off the liquor and began to realize what had happened to me . 
It was , of course , very plain . 
All that about the twentieth century had been a dream . 
The amiable family which I had learned to know so well , my genial host and Mentor , Dr . 
Leete , his wife , and their daughter , the second and more beauteous Edith , my betrothed these , too , had been but figments of a vision . 
Sawyer , alarmed at my looks , was meanwhile anxiously inquiring what was the matter with me . 
Roused at length by his importunities to a recognition of my surroundings , I pulled myself together with an effort and assured the faithful fellow that I was all right . 
I have had an extraordinary dream , that's all , Sawyer , I said , a most ex traor dinary dream . 
The morning newspaper lay by the plate . 
I took it up , and my eye fell on the date , May , . 
Glancing at the table of contents at the head of the paper , which reviewed the news of the morning , I read the following summary FOREIGN AFFAIRS . 
The impending war between France and Germany . 
The French Chambers asked for new military credits to meet Germany's increase of her army . 
Probability that all Europe will be involved in case of war . 
Great suffering among the unemployed in London . 
Monster demonstration to be made . 
The government preparing to repress outbreaks . 
Shocking facts in regard to the employment of girls in Belgium coal mines . 
The epidemic of fraud unchecked . 
Embezzlement of half a million in New York . 
Misappropriation of a trust fund by executors . 
Clever system of thefts by a bank teller , gone . 
The coal barons decide to advance the price of coal and reduce production . 
Speculators engineering a great wheat corner at Chicago . 
A clique forcing up the price of coffee . 
Enormous land grabs of Western syndicates . 
Revelations of shocking corruption among Chicago officials . 
The trials of the Boodle aldermen to go on at New York . 
Large failures of business houses . 
Fears of a business crisis . 
A large grist of burglaries and larcenies . 
A woman murdered in cold blood for her money at New Haven . 
A householder shot by a burglar in this city last night . 
A man shoots himself in Worcester because he could not get work . 
A large family left destitute . 
An aged couple in New Jersey commit suicide rather than go to the poor house . 
Pitiable destitution among the women wage workers in the great cities . 
Startling growth of illiteracy in Massachusetts . 
Professor Brown's oration on the moral grandeur of nineteenth century civilization . 
It was indeed the nineteenth century to which I had awaked there could be no kind of doubt about that . 
Its complete microcosm this summary of the day's news had presented , even to that last unmistakable touch of fatuous self complacency . 
That strange dream it was which had made all the difference . 
The squalor and malodorousness of the town struck me , from the moment I stood upon the street , as facts I had never before observed . 
I had dreamed of a city whose people fared all alike as children of one family and were one another's keepers in all things . 
Another feature of the real Boston , which assumed the extraordinary effect of strangeness that marks familiar things seen in a new light , was the prevalence of advertising . 
However the wording might vary , the tenor of all these appeals was the same Help John Jones . 
I , John Jones , am the right one . 
Hear me , John Jones . 
Make no mistake , John Jones is the man and nobody else . 
There the labor of distribution had been so slight as to add but a scarcely perceptible fraction to the cost of commodities to the user . 
The cost of production was virtually all he paid . 
But here the mere distribution of the goods , their handling alone , added a fourth , a third , a half and more , to the cost . 
I took wondering note of the show windows of the stores , filled with goods arranged with a wealth of pains and artistic device to attract the eye . 
I saw the throngs of ladies looking in , and the proprietors eagerly watching the effect of the bait . 
At times I momentarily lost the clue and was confused by the sight . 
Why this effort to induce people to buy ? Surely that had nothing to do with the legitimate business of distributing products to those who needed them . 
Surely it was the sheerest waste to force upon people what they did not want , but what might be useful to another . 
The nation was so much the poorer for every such achievement . 
What were these clerks thinking of ? Then I would remember that they were not acting as distributors like those in the store I had visited in the dream Boston . 
The more wasteful the people were , the more articles they did not want which they could be induced to buy , the better for these sellers . 
To encourage prodigality was the express aim of the ten thousand stores of Boston . 
Nor were these storekeepers and clerks a whit worse men than any others in Boston . 
If Washington Street had been like a lane in Bedlam , this was a spectacle as much more melancholy as production is a more vital function than distribution . 
The roar and rattle of wheels and hammers resounding from every side was not the hum of a peaceful industry , but the clangor of swords wielded by foemen . 
Within each one of these forts the strictest organization of industry was insisted on the separate gangs worked under a single central authority . 
No interference and no duplicating of work were permitted . 
Each had his allotted task , and none were idle . 
I accosted some of the latter , and they told me their grievances . 
It was very little comfort I could give them . 
I am sorry for you , I said . 
Business men , confidential clerks , and errand boys were thronging in and out of the banks , for it wanted but a few minutes of the closing hour . 
An old gentleman whom I knew , a director of the bank , passing me and observing my contemplative attitude , stopped a moment . 
Interesting sight , isn't it , Mr. West , he said . 
Wonderful piece of mechanism I find it so myself . 
I like sometimes to stand and look on at it just as you are doing . 
It's a poem , sir , a poem , that's what I call it . 
It is flowing in now . 
It will flow out again in the morning and pleased with his little conceit , the old man passed on smiling . 
Yesterday I should have considered the simile apt enough , but since then I had visited a world incomparably more affluent than this , in which money was unknown and without conceivable use . 
This original mistake necessitated endless exchanges to bring about any sort of general distribution of products . 
Alas for the poor old bank director with his poem ! He had mistaken the throbbing of an abscess for the beating of the heart . 
What he called a wonderful piece of mechanism was an imperfect device to remedy an unnecessary defect , the clumsy crutch of a self made cripple . 
Do your work never so well , the spectre was whispering rise early and toil till late , rob cunningly or serve faithfully , you shall never know security . 
Rich you may be now and still come to poverty at last . 
A man passing by thrust an advertising card in my hand , which set forth the merits of some new scheme of life insurance . 
But this was all , and this was only for those who could pay well for it . 
Some time after this it was that I recall a glimpse of myself standing on the steps of a building on Tremont Street , looking at a military parade . 
It was the first sight in that dreary day which had inspired me with any other emotions than wondering pity and amazement . 
Here at last were order and reason , an exhibition of what intelligent cooperation can accomplish . 
I had seen the mad wasting of human labor here I saw in direst shape the want that waste had bred . 
From the black doorways and windows of the rookeries on every side came gusts of fetid air . 
The streets and alleys reeked with the effluvia of a slave ship's between decks . 
There was nothing in all this that was new to me . 
But not alone as regarded the economical follies of this age , but equally as touched its moral abominations , scales had fallen from my eyes since that vision of another century . 
No more did I look upon the woful dwellers in this Inferno with a callous curiosity as creatures scarcely human . 
I saw in them my brothers and sisters , my parents , my children , flesh of my flesh , blood of my blood . 
The festering mass of human wretchedness about me offended not now my senses merely , but pierced my heart like a knife , so that I could not repress sighs and groans . 
I not only saw but felt in my body all that I saw . 
Presently , too , as I observed the wretched beings about me more closely , I perceived that they were all quite dead . 
Their bodies were so many living sepulchres . 
On each brutal brow was plainly written the hic jacet of a soul dead within . 
As I looked , horror struck , from one death's head to another , I was affected by a singular hallucination . 
Like a wavering translucent spirit face superimposed upon each of these brutish masks I saw the ideal , the possible face that would have been the actual if mind and soul had lived . 
I was moved with contrition as with a strong agony , for I had been one of those who had endured that these things should be . 
Therefore now I found upon my garments the blood of this great multitude of strangled souls of my brothers . 
The voice of their blood cried out against me from the ground . 
Amid the tumult of my thoughts that day , I had scarcely once thought of her , but now obeying some unconscious impulse my feet had found the familiar way to her door . 
I was told that the family were at dinner , but word was sent out that I should join them at table . 
Besides the family , I found several guests present , all known to me . 
The table glittered with plate and costly china . 
The ladies were sumptuously dressed and wore the jewels of queens . 
The scene was one of costly elegance and lavish luxury . 
The company was in excellent spirits , and there was plentiful laughter and a running fire of jests . 
Where had I been , and what had I seen to make such a dull fellow of me ? I have been in Golgotha , at last I answered . 
With what have you stopped your ears that you do not hear these doleful sounds ? For me , I can hear nothing else . 
The ladies were exchanging scandalized looks , while one of the gentlemen had put up his eyeglass and was studying me with an air of scientific curiosity . 
No doubt I had put the case badly . 
They were angry because they thought I was berating them , when God knew I was merely thinking of the horror of the fact without any attempt to assign the responsibility for it . 
I restrained my passion , and tried to speak calmly and logically that I might correct this impression . 
I told them that I had not meant to accuse them , as if they , or the rich in general , were responsible for the misery of the world . 
True indeed it was , that the superfluity which they wasted would , otherwise bestowed , relieve much bitter suffering . 
These costly viands , these rich wines , these gorgeous fabrics and glistening jewels represented the ransom of many lives . 
They were verily not without the guiltiness of those who waste in a land stricken with famine . 
Nevertheless , all the waste of all the rich , were it saved , would go but a little way to cure the poverty of the world . 
The folly of men , not their hard heartedness , was the great cause of the world's poverty . 
And then I showed them how four fifths of the labor of men was utterly wasted by the mutual warfare , the lack of organization and concert among the workers . 
Seeking to make the matter very plain , I instanced the case of arid lands where the soil yielded the means of life only by careful use of the watercourses for irrigation . 
The labor of men , I explained , was the fertilizing stream which alone rendered earth habitable . 
What with greed and what with spite some fields were flooded while others were parched , and half the water ran wholly to waste . 
I described the physical felicity , mental enlightenment , and moral elevation which would then attend the lives of all men . 
But when I had expected now surely the faces around me to light up with emotions akin to mine , they grew ever more dark , angry , and scornful . 
Instead of enthusiasm , the ladies showed only aversion and dread , while the men interrupted me with shouts of reprobation and contempt . 
Ha ! ha ! Put the fellow out ! exclaimed the father of my betrothed , and at the signal the men sprang from their chairs and advanced upon me . 
So hot had been my heart that I had thought to melt an iceberg with its glow , only to find at last the overmastering chill seizing my own vitals . 
It was not enmity that I felt toward them as they thronged me , but pity only , for them and for the world . 
Although despairing , I could not give over . 
Still I strove with them . 
Tears poured from my eyes . 
In my vehemence I became inarticulate . 
I panted , I sobbed , I groaned , and immediately afterward found myself sitting upright in bed in my room in Dr . 
Leete's house , and the morning sun shining through the open window into my eyes . 
The tears were streaming down my face , and I quivered in every nerve . 
Long ago oppressor and oppressed , prophet and scorner , had been dust . 
For generations , rich and poor had been forgotten words . 
For I had been a man of that former time . 
So far as my personal influence went , it had been exerted rather to hinder than to help forward the enfranchisement of the race which was even then preparing . 
When at length I raised my bowed head and looked forth from the window , Edith , fresh as the morning , had come into the garden and was gathering flowers . 
I hastened to descend to her . 
Fortunate is he who , with a case so desperate as mine , finds a judge so merciful . 
