Love of Life and other stories by Jack London Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
THEY limped painfully down the bank , and once the foremost of the two men staggered among the rough strewn rocks . 
They were tired and weak , and their faces had the drawn expression of patience which comes of hardship long endured . 
They were heavily burdened with blanket packs which were strapped to their shoulders . 
Head straps , passing across the forehead , helped support these packs . 
Each man carried a rifle . 
They walked in a stooped posture , the shoulders well forward , the head still farther forward , the eyes bent upon the ground . 
I wish we had just about two of them cartridges that's layin' in that cache of ourn , said the second man . 
His voice was utterly and drearily expressionless . 
He spoke without enthusiasm and the first man , limping into the milky stream that foamed over the rocks , vouchsafed no reply . 
The other man followed at his heels . 
They did not remove their foot gear , though the water was icy cold so cold that their ankles ached and their feet went numb . 
In places the water dashed against their knees , and both men staggered for footing . 
The man who followed slipped on a smooth boulder , nearly fell , but recovered himself with a violent effort , at the same time uttering a sharp exclamation of pain . 
He seemed faint and dizzy and put out his free hand while he reeled , as though seeking support against the air . 
When he had steadied himself he stepped forward , but reeled again and nearly fell . 
Then he stood still and looked at the other man , who had never turned his head . 
The man stood still for fully a minute , as though debating with himself . 
Then he called out I say , Bill , I've sprained my ankle . 
Bill staggered on through the milky water . 
He did not look around . 
The man watched him go , and though his face was expressionless as ever , his eyes were like the eyes of a wounded deer . 
The other man limped up the farther bank and continued straight on without looking back . 
The man in the stream watched him . 
His lips trembled a little , so that the rough thatch of brown hair which covered them was visibly agitated . 
His tongue even strayed out to moisten them . 
Bill ! he cried out . 
It was the pleading cry of a strong man in distress , but Bill's head did not turn . 
The man watched him go , limping grotesquely and lurching forward with stammering gait up the slow slope toward the soft sky line of the low lying hill . 
He watched him go till he passed over the crest and disappeared . 
Then he turned his gaze and slowly took in the circle of the world that remained to him now that Bill was gone . 
Near the horizon the sun was smouldering dimly , almost obscured by formless mists and vapors , which gave an impression of mass and density without outline or tangibility . 
The man pulled out his watch , the while resting his weight on one leg . 
This stream in which he stood was a feeder to the Coppermine River , which in turn flowed north and emptied into Coronation Gulf and the Arctic Ocean . 
He had never been there , but he had seen it , once , on a Hudson Bay Company chart . 
Again his gaze completed the circle of the world about him . 
It was not a heartening spectacle . 
Everywhere was soft sky line . 
The hills were all low lying . 
There were no trees , no shrubs , no grasses naught but a tremendous and terrible desolation that sent fear swiftly dawning into his eyes . 
He began to shake as with an ague fit , till the gun fell from his hand with a splash . 
This served to rouse him . 
He fought with his fear and pulled himself together , groping in the water and recovering the weapon . 
He hitched his pack farther over on his left shoulder , so as to take a portion of its weight from off the injured ankle . 
Then he proceeded , slowly and carefully , wincing with pain , to the bank . 
But at the crest he saw a shallow valley , empty of life . 
He fought with his fear again , overcame it , hitched the pack still farther over on his left shoulder , and lurched on down the slope . 
The bottom of the valley was soggy with water , which the thick moss held , spongelike , close to the surface . 
He picked his way from muskeg to muskeg , and followed the other man's footsteps along and across the rocky ledges which thrust like islets through the sea of moss . 
Though alone , he was not lost . 
And into that lake flowed a small stream , the water of which was not milky . 
There was rush grass on that stream this he remembered well but no timber , and he would follow it till its first trickle ceased at a divide . 
And in this cache would be ammunition for his empty gun , fish hooks and lines , a small net all the utilities for the killing and snaring of food . 
Also , he would find flour , not much , a piece of bacon , and some beans . 
Bill would be waiting for him there , and they would paddle away south down the Dease to the Great Bear Lake . 
And south across the lake they would go , ever south , till they gained the Mackenzie . 
These were the thoughts of the man as he strove onward . 
He was compelled to think this thought , or else there would not be any use to strive , and he would have lain down and died . 
And as the dim ball of the sun sank slowly into the northwest he covered every inch and many times of his and Bill's flight south before the downcoming winter . 
And he conned the grub of the cache and the grub of the Hudson Bay Company post over and over again . 
He had not eaten for two days for a far longer time he had not had all he wanted to eat . 
Often he stooped and picked pale muskeg berries , put them into his mouth , and chewed and swallowed them . 
A muskeg berry is a bit of seed enclosed in a bit of water . 
In the mouth the water melts away and the seed chews sharp and bitter . 
The man knew there was no nourishment in the berries , but he chewed them patiently with a hope greater than knowledge and defying experience . 
At nine o'clock he stubbed his toe on a rocky ledge , and from sheer weariness and weakness staggered and fell . 
He lay for some time , without movement , on his side . 
Then he slipped out of the pack straps and clumsily dragged himself into a sitting posture . 
It was not yet dark , and in the lingering twilight he groped about among the rocks for shreds of dry moss . 
When he had gathered a heap he built a fire , a smouldering , smudgy fire , and put a tin pot of water on to boil . 
He unwrapped his pack and the first thing he did was to count his matches . 
He counted them three times to make sure . 
This accomplished , a panic came upon him , and he unwrapped them all and counted them again . 
There were still sixty seven . 
He dried his wet foot gear by the fire . 
The moccasins were in soggy shreds . 
The blanket socks were worn through in places , and his feet were raw and bleeding . 
His ankle was throbbing , and he gave it an examination . 
It had swollen to the size of his knee . 
He tore a long strip from one of his two blankets and bound the ankle tightly . 
He tore other strips and bound them about his feet to serve for both moccasins and socks . 
Then he drank the pot of water , steaming hot , wound his watch , and crawled between his blankets . 
He slept like a dead man . 
The brief darkness around midnight came and went . 
The sun arose in the northeast at least the day dawned in that quarter , for the sun was hidden by gray clouds . 
At six o'clock he awoke , quietly lying on his back . 
He gazed straight up into the gray sky and knew that he was hungry . 
As he rolled over on his elbow he was startled by a loud snort , and saw a bull caribou regarding him with alert curiosity . 
The animal was not mere than fifty feet away , and instantly into the man's mind leaped the vision and the savor of a caribou steak sizzling and frying over a fire . 
Mechanically he reached for the empty gun , drew a bead , and pulled the trigger . 
The bull snorted and leaped away , his hoofs rattling and clattering as he fled across the ledges . 
The man cursed and flung the empty gun from him . 
He groaned aloud as he started to drag himself to his feet . 
It was a slow and arduous task . 
His joints were like rusty hinges . 
They worked harshly in their sockets , with much friction , and each bending or unbending was accomplished only through a sheer exertion of will . 
When he finally gained his feet , another minute or so was consumed in straightening up , so that he could stand erect as a man should stand . 
He crawled up a small knoll and surveyed the prospect . 
There were no trees , no bushes , nothing but a gray sea of moss scarcely diversified by gray rocks , gray lakelets , and gray streamlets . 
There was no sun nor hint of sun . 
He had no idea of north , and he had forgotten the way he had come to this spot the night before . 
But he was not lost . 
Soon he would come to the land of the little sticks . 
He felt that it lay off to the left somewhere , not far possibly just over the next low hill . 
He went back to put his pack into shape for travelling . 
He assured himself of the existence of his three separate parcels of matches , though he did not stop to count them . 
But he did linger , debating , over a squat moose hide sack . 
He could hide it under his two hands . 
He knew that it weighed fifteen pounds , as much as all the rest of the pack , and it worried him . 
He finally set it to one side and proceeded to roll the pack . 
He paused to gaze at the squat moose hide sack . 
He bore away to the left , stopping now and again to eat muskeg berries . 
His ankle had stiffened , his limp was more pronounced , but the pain of it was as nothing compared with the pain of his stomach . 
The hunger pangs were sharp . 
They gnawed and gnawed until he could not keep his mind steady on the course he must pursue to gain the land of little sticks . 
The muskeg berries did not allay this gnawing , while they made his tongue and the roof of his mouth sore with their irritating bite . 
He came upon a valley where rock ptarmigan rose on whirring wings from the ledges and muskegs . 
Ker ker ker was the cry they made . 
He threw stones at them , but could not hit them . 
He placed his pack on the ground and stalked them as a cat stalks a sparrow . 
The sharp rocks cut through his pants' legs till his knees left a trail of blood but the hurt was lost in the hurt of his hunger . 
He squirmed over the wet moss , saturating his clothes and chilling his body but he was not aware of it , so great was his fever for food . 
Once he crawled upon one that must have been asleep . 
He did not see it till it shot up in his face from its rocky nook . 
He made a clutch as startled as was the rise of the ptarmigan , and there remained in his hand three tail feathers . 
As he watched its flight he hated it , as though it had done him some terrible wrong . 
Then he returned and shouldered his pack . 
As the day wore along he came into valleys or swales where game was more plentiful . 
A band of caribou passed by , twenty and odd animals , tantalizingly within rifle range . 
He felt a wild desire to run after them , a certitude that he could run them down . 
A black fox came toward him , carrying a ptarmigan in his mouth . 
It was a fearful cry , but the fox , leaping away in fright , did not drop the ptarmigan . 
Late in the afternoon he followed a stream , milky with lime , which ran through sparse patches of rush grass . 
Grasping these rushes firmly near the root , he pulled up what resembled a young onion sprout no larger than a shingle nail . 
It was tender , and his teeth sank into it with a crunch that promised deliciously of food . 
But its fibers were tough . 
It was composed of stringy filaments saturated with water , like the berries , and devoid of nourishment . 
He threw off his pack and went into the rush grass on hands and knees , crunching and munching , like some bovine creature . 
He searched little ponds for frogs and dug up the earth with his nails for worms , though he knew in spite that neither frogs nor worms existed so far north . 
He plunged his arm in up to the shoulder , but it eluded him . 
He reached for it with both hands and stirred up the milky mud at the bottom . 
In his excitement he fell in , wetting himself to the waist . 
Then the water was too muddy to admit of his seeing the fish , and he was compelled to wait until the sediment had settled . 
The pursuit was renewed , till the water was again muddied . 
But he could not wait . 
He unstrapped the tin bucket and began to bale the pool . 
He baled wildly at first , splashing himself and flinging the water so short a distance that it ran back into the pool . 
He worked more carefully , striving to be cool , though his heart was pounding against his chest and his hands were trembling . 
At the end of half an hour the pool was nearly dry . 
Not a cupful of water remained . 
And there was no fish . 
He found a hidden crevice among the stones through which it had escaped to the adjoining and larger pool a pool which he could not empty in a night and a day . 
Had he known of the crevice , he could have closed it with a rock at the beginning and the fish would have been his . 
Thus he thought , and crumpled up and sank down upon the wet earth . 
At first he cried softly to himself , then he cried loudly to the pitiless desolation that ringed him around and for a long time after he was shaken by great dry sobs . 
He built a fire and warmed himself by drinking quarts of hot water , and made camp on a rocky ledge in the same fashion he had the night before . 
The last thing he did was to see that his matches were dry and to wind his watch . 
The blankets were wet and clammy . 
His ankle pulsed with pain . 
But he knew only that he was hungry , and through his restless sleep he dreamed of feasts and banquets and of food served and spread in all imaginable ways . 
He awoke chilled and sick . 
The gray of earth and sky had become deeper , more profound . 
A raw wind was blowing , and the first flurries of snow were whitening the hilltops . 
The air about him thickened and grew white while he made a fire and boiled more water . 
It was wet snow , half rain , and the flakes were large and soggy . 
This was a signal for him to strap on his pack and stumble onward , he knew not where . 
He was not concerned with the land of little sticks , nor with Bill and the cache under the upturned canoe by the river Dease . 
He was mastered by the verb to eat . 
He took no heed of the course he pursued , so long as that course led him through the swale bottoms . 
He felt his way through the wet snow to the watery muskeg berries , and went by feel as he pulled up the rush grass by the roots . 
But it was tasteless stuff and did not satisfy . 
He had no fire that night , nor hot water , and crawled under his blanket to sleep the broken hunger sleep . 
The snow turned into a cold rain . 
He awakened many times to feel it falling on his upturned face . 
Day came a gray day and no sun . 
The keenness of his hunger had departed . 
Sensibility , as far as concerned the yearning for food , had been exhausted . 
There was a dull , heavy ache in his stomach , but it did not bother him so much . 
He was more rational , and once more he was chiefly interested in the land of little sticks and the cache by the river Dease . 
He ripped the remnant of one of his blankets into strips and bound his bleeding feet . 
Also , he recinched the injured ankle and prepared himself for a day of travel . 
When he came to his pack , he paused long over the squat moose hide sack , but in the end it went with him . 
The snow had melted under the rain , and only the hilltops showed white . 
The sun came out , and he succeeded in locating the points of the compass , though he knew now that he was lost . 
Perhaps , in his previous days' wanderings , he had edged away too far to the left . 
He now bore off to the right to counteract the possible deviation from his true course . 
Though the hunger pangs were no longer so exquisite , he realized that he was weak . 
He was compelled to pause for frequent rests , when he attacked the muskeg berries and rush grass patches . 
His tongue felt dry and large , as though covered with a fine hairy growth , and it tasted bitter in his mouth . 
His heart gave him a great deal of trouble . 
In the middle of the day he found two minnows in a large pool . 
It was impossible to bale it , but he was calmer now and managed to catch them in his tin bucket . 
They were no longer than his little finger , but he was not particularly hungry . 
The dull ache in his stomach had been growing duller and fainter . 
It seemed almost that his stomach was dozing . 
He ate the fish raw , masticating with painstaking care , for the eating was an act of pure reason . 
While he had no desire to eat , he knew that he must eat to live . 
In the evening he caught three more minnows , eating two and saving the third for breakfast . 
The sun had dried stray shreds of moss , and he was able to warm himself with hot water . 
He had not covered more than ten miles that day and the next day , travelling whenever his heart permitted him , he covered no more than five miles . 
But his stomach did not give him the slightest uneasiness . 
It had gone to sleep . 
He was in a strange country , too , and the caribou were growing more plentiful , also the wolves . 
Often their yelps drifted across the desolation , and once he saw three of them slinking away before his path . 
Another night and in the morning , being more rational , he untied the leather string that fastened the squat moose hide sack . 
From its open mouth poured a yellow stream of coarse gold dust and nuggets . 
He roughly divided the gold in halves , caching one half on a prominent ledge , wrapped in a piece of blanket , and returning the other half to the sack . 
He also began to use strips of the one remaining blanket for his feet . 
He still clung to his gun , for there were cartridges in that cache by the river Dease . 
This was a day of fog , and this day hunger awoke in him again . 
He was very weak and was afflicted with a giddiness which at times blinded him . 
It was no uncommon thing now for him to stumble and fall and stumbling once , he fell squarely into a ptarmigan nest . 
The mother ptarmigan beat about him with great outcry . 
He used his gun as a club with which to knock her over , but she dodged out of reach . 
He threw stones at her and with one chance shot broke a wing . 
Then she fluttered away , running , trailing the broken wing , with him in pursuit . 
The little chicks had no more than whetted his appetite . 
The chase led him across swampy ground in the bottom of the valley , and he came upon footprints in the soggy moss . 
They were not his own he could see that . 
But he could not stop , for the mother ptarmigan was running on . 
He would catch her first , then he would return and investigate . 
He exhausted the mother ptarmigan but he exhausted himself . 
She lay panting on her side . 
He lay panting on his side , a dozen feet away , unable to crawl to her . 
And as he recovered she recovered , fluttering out of reach as his hungry hand went out to her . 
Night settled down and she escaped . 
He stumbled from weakness and pitched head foremost on his face , cutting his cheek , his pack upon his back . 
He did not move for a long while then he rolled over on his side , wound his watch , and lay there until morning . 
Half of his last blanket had gone into foot wrappings . 
He failed to pick up Bill's trail . 
His hunger was driving him too compellingly only only he wondered if Bill , too , were lost . 
By midday the irk of his pack became too oppressive . 
Again he divided the gold , this time merely spilling half of it on the ground . 
In the afternoon he threw the rest of it away , there remaining to him only the half blanket , the tin bucket , and the rifle . 
An hallucination began to trouble him . 
He felt confident that one cartridge remained to him . 
It was in the chamber of the rifle and he had overlooked it . 
On the other hand , he knew all the time that the chamber was empty . 
He fought it off for hours , then threw his rifle open and was confronted with emptiness . 
The disappointment was as bitter as though he had really expected to find the cartridge . 
He plodded on for half an hour , when the hallucination arose again . 
Again he fought it , and still it persisted , till for very relief he opened his rifle to unconvince himself . 
At times his mind wandered farther afield , and he plodded on , a mere automaton , strange conceits and whimsicalities gnawing at his brain like worms . 
But these excursions out of the real were of brief duration , for ever the pangs of the hunger bite called him back . 
He was jerked back abruptly once from such an excursion by a sight that caused him nearly to faint . 
He reeled and swayed , doddering like a drunken man to keep from falling . 
Before him stood a horse . 
A horse ! He could not believe his eyes . 
A thick mist was in them , intershot with sparkling points of light . 
He rubbed his eyes savagely to clear his vision , and beheld , not a horse , but a great brown bear . 
The animal was studying him with bellicose curiosity . 
The man had brought his gun halfway to his shoulder before he realized . 
He lowered it and drew his hunting knife from its beaded sheath at his hip . 
Before him was meat and life . 
He ran his thumb along the edge of his knife . 
He would fling himself upon the bear and kill it . 
But his heart began its warning thump , thump , thump . 
Then followed the wild upward leap and tattoo of flutters , the pressing as of an iron band about his forehead , the creeping of the dizziness into his brain . 
His desperate courage was evicted by a great surge of fear . 
In his weakness , what if the animal attacked him ? He drew himself up to his most imposing stature , gripping the knife and staring hard at the bear . 
The bear advanced clumsily a couple of steps , reared up , and gave vent to a tentative growl . 
If the man ran , he would run after him but the man did not run . 
He was animated now with the courage of fear . 
He , too , growled , savagely , terribly , voicing the fear that is to life germane and that lies twisted about life's deepest roots . 
The bear edged away to one side , growling menacingly , himself appalled by this mysterious creature that appeared upright and unafraid . 
But the man did not move . 
He stood like a statue till the danger was past , when he yielded to a fit of trembling and sank down into the wet moss . 
He pulled himself together and went on , afraid now in a new way . 
Now and again the wolves , in packs of two and three , crossed his path . 
But they sheered clear of him . 
They were not in sufficient numbers , and besides they were hunting the caribou , which did not battle , while this strange creature that walked erect might scratch and bite . 
In the late afternoon he came upon scattered bones where the wolves had made a kill . 
The debris had been a caribou calf an hour before , squawking and running and very much alive . 
He contemplated the bones , clean picked and polished , pink with the cell life in them which had not yet died . 
Could it possibly be that he might be that ere the day was done ! Such was life , eh ? A vain and fleeting thing . 
It was only life that pained . 
There was no hurt in death . 
To die was to sleep . 
It meant cessation , rest . 
Then why was he not content to die ? But he did not moralize long . 
He was squatting in the moss , a bone in his mouth , sucking at the shreds of life that still dyed it faintly pink . 
The sweet meaty taste , thin and elusive almost as a memory , maddened him . 
He closed his jaws on the bones and crunched . 
Sometimes it was the bone that broke , sometimes his teeth . 
Then he crushed the bones between rocks , pounded them to a pulp , and swallowed them . 
Came frightful days of snow and rain . 
He did not know when he made camp , when he broke camp . 
He travelled in the night as much as in the day . 
He rested wherever he fell , crawled on whenever the dying life in him flickered up and burned less dimly . 
He , as a man , no longer strove . 
It was the life in him , unwilling to die , that drove him on . 
His nerves had become blunted , numb , while his mind was filled with weird visions and delicious dreams . 
But ever he sucked and chewed on the crushed bones of the caribou calf , the least remnants of which he had gathered up and carried with him . 
He crossed no more hills or divides , but automatically followed a large stream which flowed through a wide and shallow valley . 
He did not see this stream nor this valley . 
He saw nothing save visions . 
Soul and body walked or crawled side by side , yet apart , so slender was the thread that bound them . 
He awoke in his right mind , lying on his back on a rocky ledge . 
The sun was shining bright and warm . 
Afar off he heard the squawking of caribou calves . 
He was aware of vague memories of rain and wind and snow , but whether he had been beaten by the storm for two days or two weeks he did not know . 
For some time he lay without movement , the genial sunshine pouring upon him and saturating his miserable body with its warmth . 
A fine day , he thought . 
Perhaps he could manage to locate himself . 
By a painful effort he rolled over on his side . 
Below him flowed a wide and sluggish river . 
Slowly he followed it with his eyes , winding in wide sweeps among the bleak , bare hills , bleaker and barer and lower lying than any hills he had yet encountered . 
Most unusual , he thought , a vision or a mirage more likely a vision , a trick of his disordered mind . 
He was confirmed in this by sight of a ship lying at anchor in the midst of the shining sea . 
He closed his eyes for a while , then opened them . 
Strange how the vision persisted ! Yet not strange . 
He knew there were no seas or ships in the heart of the barren lands , just as he had known there was no cartridge in the empty rifle . 
He heard a snuffle behind him a half choking gasp or cough . 
Very slowly , because of his exceeding weakness and stiffness , he rolled over on his other side . 
He could see nothing near at hand , but he waited patiently . 
Again came the snuffle and cough , and outlined between two jagged rocks not a score of feet away he made out the gray head of a wolf . 
The sharp ears were not pricked so sharply as he had seen them on other wolves the eyes were bleared and bloodshot , the head seemed to droop limply and forlornly . 
The animal blinked continually in the sunshine . 
As he looked it snuffled and coughed again . 
But the sea still shone in the distance and the ship was plainly discernible . 
Was it reality , after all ? He closed his eyes for a long while and thought , and then it came to him . 
He had been making north by east , away from the Dease Divide and into the Coppermine Valley . 
This wide and sluggish river was the Coppermine . 
That shining sea was the Arctic Ocean . 
That ship was a whaler , strayed east , far east , from the mouth of the Mackenzie , and it was lying at anchor in Coronation Gulf . 
He remembered the Hudson Bay Company chart he had seen long ago , and it was all clear and reasonable to him . 
He sat up and turned his attention to immediate affairs . 
He had worn through the blanket wrappings , and his feet were shapeless lumps of raw meat . 
His last blanket was gone . 
Rifle and knife were both missing . 
He had lost his hat somewhere , with the bunch of matches in the band , but the matches against his chest were safe and dry inside the tobacco pouch and oil paper . 
He looked at his watch . 
It marked eleven o'clock and was still running . 
Evidently he had kept it wound . 
He was calm and collected . 
Though extremely weak , he had no sensation of pain . 
The thought of food was not even pleasant to him , and whatever he did was done by his reason alone . 
He ripped off his pants' legs to the knees and bound them about his feet . 
Somehow he had succeeded in retaining the tin bucket . 
He would have some hot water before he began what he foresaw was to be a terrible journey to the ship . 
He shook as with a palsy . 
When he started to collect dry moss , he found he could not rise to his feet . 
He tried again and again , then contented himself with crawling about on hands and knees . 
Once he crawled near to the sick wolf . 
The animal dragged itself reluctantly out of his way , licking its chops with a tongue which seemed hardly to have the strength to curl . 
The man noticed that the tongue was not the customary healthy red . 
It was a yellowish brown and seemed coated with a rough and half dry mucus . 
After he had drunk a quart of hot water the man found he was able to stand , and even to walk as well as a dying man might be supposed to walk . 
Every minute or so he was compelled to rest . 
Throughout the night he heard the cough of the sick wolf , and now and then the squawking of the caribou calves . 
In the morning , on opening his eyes , he beheld it regarding him with a wistful and hungry stare . 
It stood crouched , with tail between its legs , like a miserable and woe begone dog . 
It shivered in the chill morning wind , and grinned dispiritedly when the man spoke to it in a voice that achieved no more than a hoarse whisper . 
The sun rose brightly , and all morning the man tottered and fell toward the ship on the shining sea . 
It was the brief Indian Summer of the high latitudes . 
It might last a week . 
To morrow or next day it might he gone . 
In the afternoon the man came upon a trail . 
It was of another man , who did not walk , but who dragged himself on all fours . 
The man thought it might be Bill , but he thought in a dull , uninterested way . 
In fact , sensation and emotion had left him . 
He was no longer susceptible to pain . 
Stomach and nerves had gone to sleep . 
Yet the life that was in him drove him on . 
He was very weary , but it refused to die . 
It was because it refused to die that he still ate muskeg berries and minnows , drank his hot water , and kept a wary eye on the sick wolf . 
He saw a squat moose hide sack , mate to his own , which had been torn by sharp teeth . 
He picked it up , though its weight was almost too much for his feeble fingers . 
Bill had carried it to the last . 
Ha ! ha ! He would have the laugh on Bill . 
He would survive and carry it to the ship in the shining sea . 
His mirth was hoarse and ghastly , like a raven's croak , and the sick wolf joined him , howling lugubriously . 
How could he have the laugh on Bill if that were Bill if those bones , so pinky white and clean , were Bill ? He turned away . 
Well , Bill had deserted him but he would not take the gold , nor would he suck Bill's bones . 
Bill would have , though , had it been the other way around , he mused as he staggered on . 
He came to a pool of water . 
Stooping over in quest of minnows , he jerked his head back as though he had been stung . 
He had caught sight of his reflected face . 
So horrible was it that sensibility awoke long enough to be shocked . 
There were three minnows in the pool , which was too large to drain and after several ineffectual attempts to catch them in the tin bucket he forbore . 
He was afraid , because of his great weakness , that he might fall in and drown . 
It was for this reason that he did not trust himself to the river astride one of the many drift logs which lined its sand spits . 
Still the Indian Summer held on , and he continued to crawl and faint , turn and turn about and ever the sick wolf coughed and wheezed at his heels . 
Once , glancing back , he saw the wolf licking hungrily his bleeding trail , and he saw sharply what his own end might be unless unless he could get the wolf . 
His mind had begun to wander again , and to be perplexed by hallucinations , while his lucid intervals grew rarer and shorter . 
He was awakened once from a faint by a wheeze close in his ear . 
The wolf leaped lamely back , losing its footing and falling in its weakness . 
It was ludicrous , but he was not amused . 
Nor was he even afraid . 
He was too far gone for that . 
But his mind was for the moment clear , and he lay and considered . 
The ship was no more than four miles away . 
But he could never crawl those four miles . 
He knew that , and was very calm in the knowledge . 
He knew that he could not crawl half a mile . 
And yet he wanted to live . 
It was unreasonable that he should die after all he had undergone . 
Fate asked too much of him . 
And , dying , he declined to die . 
It was stark madness , perhaps , but in the very grip of Death he defied Death and refused to die . 
He closed his eyes and composed himself with infinite precaution . 
He steeled himself to keep above the suffocating languor that lapped like a rising tide through all the wells of his being . 
It was very like a sea , this deadly languor , that rose and rose and drowned his consciousness bit by bit . 
Without movement he lay on his back , and he could hear , slowly drawing near and nearer , the wheezing intake and output of the sick wolf's breath . 
It drew closer , ever closer , through an infinitude of time , and he did not move . 
It was at his ear . 
The harsh dry tongue grated like sandpaper against his cheek . 
His hands shot out or at least he willed them to shoot out . 
The fingers were curved like talons , but they closed on empty air . 
Swiftness and certitude require strength , and the man had not this strength . 
The patience of the wolf was terrible . 
The man's patience was no less terrible . 
For half a day he lay motionless , fighting off unconsciousness and waiting for the thing that was to feed upon him and upon which he wished to feed . 
He did not hear the breath , and he slipped slowly from some dream to the feel of the tongue along his hand . 
The fangs pressed softly the pressure increased the wolf was exerting its last strength in an effort to sink teeth in the food for which it had waited so long . 
But the man had waited long , and the lacerated hand closed on the jaw . 
Slowly , while the wolf struggled feebly and the hand clutched feebly , the other hand crept across to a grip . 
Five minutes later the whole weight of the man's body was on top of the wolf . 
At the end of half an hour the man was aware of a warm trickle in his throat . 
It was like molten lead being forced into his stomach , and it was forced by his will alone . 
Later the man rolled over on his back and slept . 
There were some members of a scientific expedition on the whale ship BEDFORD . 
From the deck they remarked a strange object on the shore . 
It was moving down the beach toward the water . 
They were unable to classify it , and , being scientific men , they climbed into the whale boat alongside and went ashore to see . 
And they saw something that was alive but which could hardly be called a man . 
It was blind , unconscious . 
It squirmed along the ground like some monstrous worm . 
Most of its efforts were ineffectual , but it was persistent , and it writhed and twisted and went ahead perhaps a score of feet an hour . 
Three weeks afterward the man lay in a bunk on the whale ship BEDFORD , and with tears streaming down his wasted cheeks told who he was and what he had undergone . 
He also babbled incoherently of his mother , of sunny Southern California , and a home among the orange groves and flowers . 
The days were not many after that when he sat at table with the scientific men and ship's officers . 
He gloated over the spectacle of so much food , watching it anxiously as it went into the mouths of others . 
With the disappearance of each mouthful an expression of deep regret came into his eyes . 
He was quite sane , yet he hated those men at mealtime . 
He was haunted by a fear that the food would not last . 
He inquired of the cook , the cabin boy , the captain , concerning the food stores . 
They reassured him countless times but he could not believe them , and pried cunningly about the lazarette to see with his own eyes . 
It was noticed that the man was getting fat . 
He grew stouter with each day . 
The scientific men shook their heads and theorized . 
They limited the man at his meals , but still his girth increased and he swelled prodigiously under his shirt . 
And when the scientific men set a watch on the man , they knew too . 
They saw him slouch for'ard after breakfast , and , like a mendicant , with outstretched palm , accost a sailor . 
The sailor grinned and passed him a fragment of sea biscuit . 
He clutched it avariciously , looked at it as a miser looks at gold , and thrust it into his shirt bosom . 
Similar were the donations from other grinning sailors . 
The scientific men were discreet . 
But they privily examined his bunk . 
It was lined with hardtack the mattress was stuffed with hardtack every nook and cranny was filled with hardtack . 
He was taking precautions against another possible famine that was all . 
He would recover from it , the scientific men said and he did , ere the BEDFORD'S anchor rumbled down in San Francisco Bay . 
A DAY'S LODGING It was the gosh dangdest stampede I ever seen . 
A thousand dog teams hittin' the ice . 
You couldn't see 'm fer smoke . 
Two white men an' a Swede froze to death that night , an' there was a dozen busted their lungs . 
But didn't I see with my own eyes the bottom of the water hole ? It was yellow with gold like a mustard plaster . 
That's why I staked the Yukon for a minin' claim . 
That's what made the stampede . 
An' then there was nothin' to it . 
That's what I said NOTHIN' to it . 
An' I ain't got over guessin' yet . 
JOHN MESSNER clung with mittened hand to the bucking gee pole and held the sled in the trail . 
With the other mittened hand he rubbed his cheeks and nose . 
He rubbed his cheeks and nose every little while . 
In point of fact , he rarely ceased from rubbing them , and sometimes , as their numbness increased , he rubbed fiercely . 
His forehead was covered by the visor of his fur cap , the flaps of which went over his ears . 
The rest of his face was protected by a thick beard , golden brown under its coating of frost . 
Behind him churned a heavily loaded Yukon sled , and before him toiled a string of five dogs . 
The rope by which they dragged the sled rubbed against the side of Messner's leg . 
When the dogs swung on a bend in the trail , he stepped over the rope . 
There were many bends , and he was compelled to step over it often . 
Sometimes he tripped on the rope , or stumbled , and at all times he was awkward , betraying a weariness so great that the sled now and again ran upon his heels . 
He found it difficult to keep up the circulation in that hand . 
But while he pounded the one hand , he never ceased from rubbing his nose and cheeks with the other . 
It's too cold to travel , anyway , he said . 
He spoke aloud , after the manner of men who are much by themselves . 
Only a fool would travel at such a temperature . 
If it isn't eighty below , it's because it's seventy nine . 
He pulled out his watch , and after some fumbling got it back into the breast pocket of his thick woollen jacket . 
Then he surveyed the heavens and ran his eye along the white sky line to the south . 
Twelve o'clock , he mumbled , A clear sky , and no sun . 
Suddenly he yelled Whoa ! at the dogs , and stopped . 
He seemed in a wild panic over his right hand , and proceeded to hammer it furiously against the gee pole . 
You poor devils ! he addressed the dogs , which had dropped down heavily on the ice to rest . 
His was a broken , jerky utterance , caused by the violence with which he hammered his numb hand upon the wood . 
He travelled on the frozen surface of a great river . 
Behind him it stretched away in a mighty curve of many miles , losing itself in a fantastic jumble of mountains , snow covered and silent . 
Ahead of him the river split into many channels to accommodate the freight of islands it carried on its breast . 
These islands were silent and white . 
No animals nor humming insects broke the silence . 
No birds flew in the chill air . 
There was no sound of man , no mark of the handiwork of man . 
The world slept , and it was like the sleep of death . 
John Messner seemed succumbing to the apathy of it all . 
The frost was benumbing his spirit . 
He plodded on with bowed head , unobservant , mechanically rubbing nose and cheeks , and batting his steering hand against the gee pole in the straight trail stretches . 
But the dogs were observant , and suddenly they stopped , turning their heads and looking back at their master out of eyes that were wistful and questioning . 
Their eyelashes were frosted white , as were their muzzles , and they had all the seeming of decrepit old age , what of the frost rime and exhaustion . 
The man was about to urge them on , when he checked himself , roused up with an effort , and looked around . 
The dogs had stopped beside a water hole , not a fissure , but a hole man made , chopped laboriously with an axe through three and a half feet of ice . 
A thick skin of new ice showed that it had not been used for some time . 
The dogs were already pointing the way , each wistful and hoary muzzle turned toward the dim snow path that left the main river trail and climbed the bank of the island . 
All right , you sore footed brutes , he said . 
You're not a bit more anxious to quit than I am . 
He climbed the bank and disappeared . 
The dogs did not lie down , but on their feet eagerly waited his return . 
He came back to them , took a hauling rope from the front of the sled , and put it around his shoulders . 
Then he GEE'D the dogs to the right and put them at the bank on the run . 
When a dog slipped or faltered , the one behind nipped his hind quarters . 
The man shouted encouragement and threats , and threw all his weight on the hauling rope . 
They cleared the bank with a rush , swung to the left , and dashed up to a small log cabin . 
It was a deserted cabin of a single room , eight feet by ten on the inside . 
Messner unharnessed the animals , unloaded his sled and took possession . 
The last chance wayfarer had left a supply of firewood . 
Messner set up his light sheet iron stove and starred a fire . 
He put five sun cured salmon into the oven to thaw out for the dogs , and from the water hole filled his coffee pot and cooking pail . 
While waiting for the water to boil , he held his face over the stove . 
The moisture from his breath had collected on his beard and frozen into a great mass of ice , and this he proceeded to thaw out . 
As it melted and dropped upon the stove it sizzled and rose about him in steam . 
He helped the process with his fingers , working loose small ice chunks that fell rattling to the floor . 
A wild outcry from the dogs without did not take him from his task . 
He heard the wolfish snarling and yelping of strange dogs and the sound of voices . 
A knock came on the door . 
Come in , Messner called , in a voice muffled because at the moment he was sucking loose a fragment of ice from its anchorage on his upper lip . 
The door opened , and , gazing out of his cloud of steam , he saw a man and a woman pausing on the threshold . 
Come in , he said peremptorily , and shut the door ! Peering through the steam , he could make out but little of their personal appearance . 
The nose and cheek strap worn by the woman and the trail wrappings about her head allowed only a pair of black eyes to be seen . 
The man was dark eyed and smooth shaven all except his mustache , which was so iced up as to hide his mouth . 
We just wanted to know if there is any other cabin around here , he said , at the same time glancing over the unfurnished state of the room . 
We thought this cabin was empty . 
It isn't my cabin , Messner answered . 
I just found it a few minutes ago . 
Come right in and camp . 
Plenty of room , and you won't need your stove . 
At the sound of his voice the woman peered at him with quick curiousness . 
Get your things off , her companion said to her . 
I'll unhitch and get the water so we can start cooking . 
Messner took the thawed salmon outside and fed his dogs . 
He had to guard them against the second team of dogs , and when he had re ntered the cabin the other man had unpacked the sled and fetched water . 
He threw in the coffee , settled it with half a cup of cold water , and took the pot from the stove . 
Between mouthfuls he talked trail and dogs with the man , who , with head over the stove , was thawing the ice from his mustache . 
There were two bunks in the cabin , and into one of them , when he had cleared his lip , the stranger tossed his bed roll . 
We'll sleep here , he said , unless you prefer this bunk . 
You're the first comer and you have first choice , you know . 
That's all right , Messner answered . 
One bunk's just as good as the other . 
He spread his own bedding in the second bunk , and sat down on the edge . 
The stranger thrust a physician's small travelling case under his blankets at one end to serve for a pillow . 
Yes , came the answer , but I assure you I didn't come into the Klondike to practise . 
The woman busied herself with cooking , while the man sliced bacon and fired the stove . 
He seemed to have no interest in her . 
But she glanced curiously from time to time into the dark corner where he sat . 
Oh , it's a great life , the doctor proclaimed enthusiastically , pausing from sharpening his knife on the stovepipe . 
What I like about it is the struggle , the endeavor with one's own hands , the primitiveness of it , the realness . 
The temperature is real enough , Messner laughed . 
Do you know how cold it actually is ? the doctor demanded . 
The other shook his head . 
Well , I'll tell you . 
Seventy four below zero by spirit thermometer on the sled . 
That's one hundred and six below freezing point too cold for travelling , eh ? Practically suicide , was the doctor's verdict . 
He breathes heavily , taking into his lungs the frost itself . 
It chills his lungs , freezes the edges of the tissues . 
He gets a dry , hacking cough as the dead tissue sloughs away , and dies the following summer of pneumonia , wondering what it's all about . 
I'll stay in this cabin for a week , unless the thermometer rises at least to fifty below . 
He looked at her quickly , while across his face shot a haunting expression , the ghost of some buried misery achieving swift resurrection . 
But the next moment , and by an effort of will , the ghost was laid again . 
His face was as placid as before , though he was still alert , dissatisfied with what the feeble light had shown him of the woman's face . 
Automatically , her first act had been to set the coffee pot back . 
It was not until she had done this that she glanced at Messner . 
But already he had composed himself . 
She saw only a man sitting on the edge of the bunk and incuriously studying the toes of his moccasins . 
But , as she turned casually to go about her cooking , he shot another swift look at her , and she , glancing as swiftly back , caught his look . 
He shifted on past her to the doctor , though the slightest smile curled his lip in appreciation of the way she had trapped him . 
She drew a candle from the grub box and lighted it . 
One look at her illuminated face was enough for Messner . 
In the small cabin the widest limit was only a matter of several steps , and the next moment she was alongside of him . 
She deliberately held the candle close to his face and stared at him out of eyes wide with fear and recognition . 
He smiled quietly back at her . 
What are you looking for , Tess ? the doctor called . 
Hairpins , she replied , passing on and rummaging in a clothes bag on the bunk . 
They served their meal on their grub box , sitting on Messner's grub box and facing him . 
He had stretched out on his bunk to rest , lying on his side , his head on his arm . 
In the close quarters it was as though the three were together at table . 
What part of the States do you come from ? Messner asked . 
San Francisco , answered the doctor . 
I've been in here two years , though . 
I hail from California myself , was Messner's announcement . 
The woman looked at him appealingly , but he smiled and went on Berkeley , you know . 
The other man was becoming interested . 
U. C. ? he asked . 
I meant faculty , the doctor explained . 
You remind me of the type . 
Sorry to hear you say so , Messner smiled back . 
I'd prefer being taken for a prospector or a dog musher . 
I don't think he looks any more like a professor than you do a doctor , the woman broke in . 
Thank you , said Messner . 
Then , turning to her companion , By the way , Doctor , what is your name , if I may ask ? Haythorne , if you'll take my word for it . 
I gave up cards with civilization . 
And Mrs. Haythorne , Messner smiled and bowed . 
She flashed a look at him that was more anger than appeal . 
Haythorne was about to ask the other's name . 
His mouth had opened to form the question when Messner cut him off . 
Come to think of it , Doctor , you may possibly be able to satisfy my curiosity . 
There was a sort of scandal in faculty circles some two or three years ago . 
Do you remember the incident ? Haythorne nodded his head . 
Made quite a stir at the time . 
His name was Womble Graham Womble . 
He had a magnificent practice . 
Well , what I was trying to get at was what had become of them . 
I was wondering if you had heard . 
They left no trace , hide nor hair . 
He covered his tracks cunningly . 
There was rumor that they went to the South Seas were lost on a trading schooner in a typhoon , or something like that . 
I never heard that , Messner said . 
The latter was again on the verge of asking his name , when Messner remarked This Dr . 
Womble , I've heard he was very handsome , and er quite a success , so to say , with the ladies . 
Well , if he was , he finished himself off by that affair , Haythorne grumbled . 
And the woman was a termagant at least so I've been told . 
It was generally accepted in Berkeley that she made life er not exactly paradise for her husband . 
I never heard that , Haythorne rejoined . 
In San Francisco the talk was all the other way . 
Woman sort of a martyr , eh ? crucified on the cross of matrimony ? The doctor nodded . 
Messner's gray eyes were mildly curious as he went on That was to be expected two sides to the shield . 
Living in Berkeley I only got the one side . 
She was a great deal in San Francisco , it seems . 
Some coffee , please , Haythorne said . 
The woman refilled his mug , at the same time breaking into light laughter . 
You're gossiping like a pair of beldames , she chided them . 
It's so interesting , Messner smiled at her , then returned to the doctor . 
He was a little scholastic shrimp without a drop of red blood in his body . 
Did you know him ? Never laid eyes on him . 
I never knocked about in university circles . 
One side of the shield again , Messner said , with an air of weighing the matter judicially . 
While he did not amount to much , it is true that is , physically I'd hardly say he was as bad as all that . 
He did take an active interest in student athletics . 
And he had some talent . 
He once wrote a Nativity play that brought him quite a bit of local appreciation . 
I have heard , also , that he was slated for the head of the English department , only the affair happened and he resigned and went away . 
It quite broke his career , or so it seemed . 
At any rate , on our side the shield , it was considered a knock out blow to him . 
It was thought he cared a great deal for his wife . 
Haythorne , finishing his mug of coffee , grunted uninterestedly and lighted his pipe . 
It was fortunate they had no children , Messner continued . 
But Haythorne , with a glance at the stove , pulled on his cap and mittens . 
I'm going out to get some wood , he said . 
Then I can take off my moccasins and he comfortable . 
The door slammed behind him . 
For a long minute there was silence . 
The man continued in the same position on the bed . 
The woman sat on the grub box , facing him . 
What are you going to do ? she asked abruptly . 
Messner looked at her with lazy indecision . 
What do you think I ought to do ? Nothing scenic , I hope . 
You see I am stiff and trail sore , and this bunk is so restful . 
She gnawed her lower lip and fumed dumbly . 
But she began vehemently , then clenched her hands and stopped . 
I hope you don't want me to kill Mr. er Haythorne , he said gently , almost pleadingly . 
It would be most distressing , and , I assure you , really it is unnecessary . 
But you must do something , she cried . 
On the contrary , it is quite conceivable that I do not have to do anything . 
You would stay here ? He nodded . 
She glanced desperately around the cabin and at the bed unrolled on the other bunk . 
You can't ! I tell you , you simply can't ! Of course I can . 
I might remind you that I found this cabin first and that you are my guests . 
Again her eyes travelled around the room , and the terror in them leaped up at sight of the other bunk . 
Then we'll have to go , she announced decisively . 
You have a dry , hacking cough the sort Mr. er Haythorne so aptly described . 
You've already slightly chilled your lungs . 
Besides , he is a physician and knows . 
He would never permit it . 
Then what are you going to do ? she demanded again , with a tense , quiet utterance that boded an outbreak . 
Messner regarded her in a way that was almost paternal , what of the profundity of pity and patience with which he contrived to suffuse it . 
My dear Theresa , as I told you before , I don't know . 
I really haven't thought about it . 
Oh ! You drive me mad ! She sprang to her feet , wringing her hands in impotent wrath . 
You never used to be this way . 
I used to be all softness and gentleness , he nodded concurrence . 
Was that why you left me ? You are so different , so dreadfully calm . 
I feel you have something terrible planned all the while . 
But whatever you do , don't do anything rash . 
Don't get excited I don't get excited any more , he interrupted . 
Not since you went away . 
You have improved remarkably , she retorted . 
While I am thinking about what I shall do , I'll tell you what you will have to do tell Mr. er Haythorne who I am . 
It may make our stay in this cabin more may I say , sociable ? Why have you followed me into this frightful country ? she asked irrelevantly . 
Don't think I came here looking for you , Theresa . 
Your vanity shall not be tickled by any such misapprehension . 
Our meeting is wholly fortuitous . 
I broke with the life academic and I had to go somewhere . 
To be honest , I came into the Klondike because I thought it the place you were least liable to be in . 
There was a fumbling at the latch , then the door swung in and Haythorne entered with an armful of firewood . 
At the first warning , Theresa began casually to clear away the dishes . 
Haythorne went out again after more wood . 
Why didn't you introduce us ? Messner queried . 
I'll tell him , she replied , with a toss of her head . 
I never knew you to be afraid , very much , of anything . 
And I'm not afraid of confession , either , she said , with softening face and voice . 
In your case , I fear , confession is exploitation by indirection , profit making by ruse , self aggrandizement at the expense of God . 
Don't be literary , she pouted , with growing tenderness . 
I never did like epigrammatic discussion . 
Besides , I'm not afraid to ask you to forgive me . 
There is nothing to forgive , Theresa . 
I really should thank you . 
True , at first I suffered and then , with all the graciousness of spring , it dawned upon me that I was happy , very happy . 
It was a most amazing discovery . 
But what if I should return to you ? she asked . 
I should , be greatly perturbed . 
You know you have never got a divorce . 
I see , he meditated . 
It will be one of the first things I attend to . 
She came over to his side , resting her hand on his arm . 
You don't want me , John ? Her voice was soft and caressing , her hand rested like a lure . 
If I told you I had made a mistake ? If I told you that I was very unhappy ? and I am . 
And I did make a mistake . 
Fear began to grow on Messner . 
He felt himself wilting under the lightly laid hand . 
The situation was slipping away from him , all his beautiful calmness was going . 
She looked at him with melting eyes , and he , too , seemed all dew and melting . 
He felt himself on the edge of an abyss , powerless to withstand the force that was drawing him over . 
I am coming back to you , John . 
I am coming back to day . 
As in a nightmare , he strove under the hand . 
While she talked , he seemed to hear , rippling softly , the song of the Lorelei . 
It was as though , somewhere , a piano were playing and the actual notes were impinging on his ear drums . 
Suddenly he sprang to his feet , thrust her from him as her arms attempted to clasp him , and retreated backward to the door . 
He was in a panic . 
I'll do something desperate ! he cried . 
I warned you not to get excited . 
She laughed mockingly , and went about washing the dishes . 
I was just playing with you . 
I am happier where I am . 
But Messner did not believe . 
He remembered her facility in changing front . 
She had changed front now . 
It was exploitation by indirection . 
She was not happy with the other man . 
She had discovered her mistake . 
The flame of his ego flared up at the thought . 
She wanted to come back to him , which was the one thing he did not want . 
Unwittingly , his hand rattled the door latch . 
Don't run away , she laughed . 
I am not running away , he replied with child like defiance , at the same time pulling on his mittens . 
I'm only going to get some water . 
He gathered the empty pails and cooking pots together and opened the door . 
He looked back at her . 
Don't forget you're to tell Mr. er Haythorne who I am . 
Messner broke the skin that had formed on the water hole within the hour , and filled his pails . 
But he did not return immediately to the cabin . 
Leaving the pails standing in the trail , he walked up and down , rapidly , to keep from freezing , for the frost bit into the flesh like fire . 
His beard was white with his frozen breath when the perplexed and frowning brows relaxed and decision came into his face . 
He had made up his mind to his course of action , and his frigid lips and cheeks crackled into a chuckle over it . 
The pails were already skinned over with young ice when he picked them up and made for the cabin . 
When he entered he found the other man waiting , standing near the stove , a certain stiff awkwardness and indecision in his manner . 
Messner set down his water pails . 
Glad to meet you , Graham Womble , he said in conventional tones , as though acknowledging an introduction . 
Messner did not offer his hand . 
Womble stirred uneasily , feeling for the other the hatred one is prone to feel for one he has wronged . 
And so you're the chap , Messner said in marvelling accents . 
You see , I really am glad to meet you . 
I have been er curious to know what Theresa found in you where , I may say , the attraction lay . 
And he looked the other up and down as a man would look a horse up and down . 
I know how you must feel about me , Womble began . 
Don't mention it , Messner broke in with exaggerated cordiality of voice and manner . 
I can't help being natural , Messner complained . 
You can be expedient at the same time , and practical , Womble said sharply . 
What we want to know is what are you going to do ? Messner made a well feigned gesture of helplessness . 
It is one of those impossible situations against which there can be no provision . 
All three of us cannot remain the night in this cabin . 
Then somebody must get out . 
That also is incontrovertible , Messner agreed . 
When three bodies cannot occupy the same space at the same time , one must get out . 
And you're that one , Womble announced grimly . 
It's a ten mile pull to the next camp , but you can make it all right . 
And that's the first flaw in your reasoning , the other objected . 
Why , necessarily , should I be the one to get out ? I found this cabin first . 
But Tess can't get out , Womble explained . 
Her lungs are already slightly chilled . 
She can't venture ten miles of frost . 
By all means she must remain . 
Then it is as I said , Womble announced with finality . 
Your lungs are all right , aren't they ? Yes , but what of it ? Again the other cleared his throat and spoke with painstaking and judicial slowness . 
You can make it all right . 
Womble looked with quick suspicion at Theresa and caught in her eyes a glint of pleased surprise . 
Well ? he demanded of her . 
She hesitated , and a surge of anger darkened his face . 
I'll stay anyway , the other persisted . 
Womble stopped a moment to steady his voice and control himself . 
Then he spoke slowly , in a low , tense voice . 
Look here , Messner , if you refuse to get out , I'll thrash you . 
I'll beat you to a jelly with my two fists . 
If you do , I'll call a miners' meeting and see you strung up to the nearest tree . 
As you said , this is not California . 
The woman attempted to speak , but Womble turned upon her fiercely . 
You keep out of this , he cried . 
In marked contrast was Messner's Please don't intrude , Theresa . 
Womble looked gloomily at her , noting her cough . 
Something must be done , he said . 
Yet her lungs can't stand the exposure . 
She can't travel till the temperature rises . 
And I'm not going to give her up . 
Messner hemmed , cleared his throat , and hemmed again , semi apologetically , and said , I need some money . 
Contempt showed instantly in Womble's face . 
At last , beneath him in vileness , had the other sunk himself . 
You've got a fat sack of dust , Messner went on . 
I saw you unload it from the sled . 
How much do you want ? Womble demanded , with a contempt in his voice equal to that in his face . 
I made an estimate of the sack , and I ah should say it weighed about twenty pounds . 
What do you say we call it four thousand ? But it's all I've got , man ! Womble cried out . 
You've got her , the other said soothingly . 
She must be worth it . 
Think what I'm giving up . 
Surely it is a reasonable price . 
Womble rushed across the floor to the gold sack . 
Can't put this deal through too quick for me , you you little worm ! Now , there you err , was the smiling rejoinder . 
To hell with your ethics ! the other burst out . 
Come here and watch the weighing of this dust . 
And the woman , leaning against the bunk , raging and impotent , watched herself weighed out in yellow dust and nuggets in the scales erected on the grub box . 
The scales were small , making necessary many weighings , and Messner with precise care verified each weighing . 
There's too much silver in it , he remarked as he tied up the gold sack . 
I don't think it will run quite sixteen to the ounce . 
You got a trifle the better of me , Womble . 
He handled the sack lovingly , and with due appreciation of its preciousness carried it out to his sled . 
Returning , he gathered his pots and pans together , packed his grub box , and rolled up his bed . 
When the sled was lashed and the complaining dogs harnessed , he returned into the cabin for his mittens . 
Good by , Tess , he said , standing at the open door . 
She turned on him , struggling for speech but too frantic to word the passion that burned in her . 
Good by , Tess , he repeated gently . 
Beast ! she managed to articulate . 
At the bottom of the bank , beside the water hole , he halted the sled . 
He worked the sack of gold out between the lashings and carried it to the water hole . 
Already a new skin of ice had formed . 
This he broke with his fist . 
Untying the knotted mouth with his teeth , he emptied the contents of the sack into the water . 
The river was shallow at that point , and two feet beneath the surface he could see the bottom dull yellow in the fading light . 
At the sight of it , he spat into the hole . 
He started the dogs along the Yukon trail . 
Whining spiritlessly , they were reluctant to work . 
Clinging to the gee pole with his right band and with his left rubbing cheeks and nose , he stumbled over the rope as the dogs swung on a bend . 
Mush on , you poor , sore footed brutes ! he cried . 
Zilla was his wife , and no more bitter tongued , implacable old squaw dwelt on the Yukon . 
Nor would I have stopped there had my dogs been less tired or had the rest of the village been inhabited . 
But this cabin alone had I found occupied , and in this cabin , perforce , I took my shelter . 
Old Ebbits now and again pulled his tangled wits together , and hints and sparkles of intelligence came and went in his eyes . 
Several times during the preparation of my supper he even essayed hospitable inquiries about my health , the condition and number of my dogs , and the distance I had travelled that day . 
And each time Zilla had looked sourer than ever and grunted more contemptuously . 
Yet I confess that there was no particular call for cheerfulness on their part . 
They rocked back and forth in a slow and hopeless way , and regularly , once every five minutes , Ebbits emitted a low groan . 
It was not so much a groan of pain , as of pain weariness . 
He was oppressed by the weight and the torment of this thing called life , and still more was he oppressed by the fear of death . 
His was that eternal tragedy of the aged , with whom the joy of life has departed and the instinct for death has not come . 
When my moose meat spluttered rowdily in the frying pan , I noticed old Ebbits's nostrils twitch and distend as he caught the food scent . 
He ceased rocking for a space and forgot to groan , while a look of intelligence seemed to come into his face . 
Zilla , on the other hand , rocked more rapidly , and for the first time , in sharp little yelps , voiced her pain . 
Ebbits drooled a little and stopped his rocking very frequently to lean forward and thrust his tremulous nose nearer to the source of gustatory excitement . 
After that , when I gave them each a mug of scalding tea , the noises ceased . 
Easement and content came into their faces . 
Zilla relaxed her sour mouth long enough to sigh her satisfaction . 
Neither rocked any more , and they seemed to have fallen into placid meditation . 
Then a dampness came into Ebbits's eyes , and I knew that the sorrow of self pity was his . 
Why are you all alone in the village ? I asked . 
The village has gone away to hunt meat . 
We be too old , our legs are not strong , nor can our backs carry the burdens of camp and trail . 
Wherefore we remain here and wonder when the young men will return with meat . 
What if the young men do return with meat ? Zilla demanded harshly . 
They may return with much meat , he quavered hopefully . 
Even so , with much meat , she continued , more harshly than before . 
But of what worth to you and me ? A few bones to gnaw in our toothless old age . 
But the back fat , the kidneys , and the tongues these shall go into other mouths than thine and mine , old man . 
Ebbits nodded his head and wept silently . 
There be no one to hunt meat for us , she cried , turning fiercely upon me . 
There was accusation in her manner , and I shrugged my shoulders in token that I was not guilty of the unknown crime imputed to me . 
Nay , Ebbits said gravely , with a stricter sense of justice . 
Wrong has been done us , it be true but the white men did not mean the wrong . 
Where be Moklan ? she demanded . 
Where be thy strong son , Moklan , and the fish he was ever willing to bring that you might eat ? The old man shook his head . 
I see no back fat and no sweet dried tongues . 
Your stomach is full with emptiness through the days , and it is for a man of a very miserable and lying people to give you to eat . 
Nay , old Ebbits interposed in kindliness , the white man's is not a lying people . 
The white man speaks true . 
Always does the white man speak true . 
He paused , casting about him for words wherewith to temper the severity of what he was about to say . 
But the white man speaks true in different ways . 
To day he speaks true one way , to morrow he speaks true another way , and there is no understanding him nor his way . 
To day speak true one way , to morrow speak true another way , which is to lie , was Zilla's dictum . 
There is no understanding the white man , Ebbits went on doggedly . 
The meat , and the tea , and the tobacco seemed to have brought him back to life , and he gripped tighter hold of the idea behind his age bleared eyes . 
His voice lost its querulous and whimpering note , and became strong and positive . 
He turned upon me with dignity , and addressed me as equal addresses equal . 
The white man's eyes are not shut , he began . 
The white man sees all things , and thinks greatly , and is very wise . 
But the white man of one day is not the white man of next day , and there is no understanding him . 
He does not do things always in the same way . 
And what way his next way is to be , one cannot know . 
Always does the Indian do the one thing in the one way . 
Always does the moose come down from the high mountains when the winter is here . 
Always does the salmon come in the spring when the ice has gone out of the river . 
Always does everything do all things in the same way , and the Indian knows and understands . 
But the white man does not do all things in the same way , and the Indian does not know nor understand . 
It be food to the hungry man . 
It makes the strong man stronger , and the angry man to forget that he is angry . 
Also is tobacco of value . 
It is of very great value . 
The Indian gives one large salmon for one leaf of tobacco , and he chews the tobacco for a long time . 
It is the juice of the tobacco that is good . 
When it runs down his throat it makes him feel good inside . 
Does the white man like tobacco ? I do not know . 
But if he likes tobacco , why does he spit out its value and lose it in the snow ? It is a great foolishness and without understanding . 
It is not good to steal , he said . 
When the dog takes your meat you beat the dog with a club . 
It is the law the man gave to the dog , and the dog must live to the law , else will it suffer the pain of the club . 
When man takes your meat , or your canoe , or your wife , you kill that man . 
That is the law , and it is a good law . 
It is not good to steal , wherefore it is the law that the man who steals must die . 
Whoso breaks the law must suffer hurt . 
It is a great hurt to die . 
But if you kill the man , why do you not kill the dog ? I asked . 
Old Ebbits looked at me in childlike wonder , while Zilla sneered openly at the absurdity of my question . 
It is the way of the white man , Ebbits mumbled with an air of resignation . 
It is the foolishness of the white man , snapped Zilla . 
Then let old Ebbits teach the white man wisdom , I said softly . 
The dog is not killed , because it must pull the sled of the man . 
No man pulls another man's sled , wherefore the man is killed . 
That is the law , old Ebbits went on . 
Now listen , O White Man , and I will tell you of a great foolishness . 
From white man he steals two pounds of flour . 
He puts Mobits in that house . 
He makes a fire that Mobits may be warm . 
He gives Mobits plenty grub to eat . 
Never in his all days does Mobits eat so good grub . 
There is bacon , and bread , and beans without end . 
Mobits have very good time . 
There is a big lock on door so that Mobits does not run away . 
This also is a great foolishness . 
Mobits will not run away . 
All the time is there plenty grub in that place , and warm blankets , and a big fire . 
Very foolish to run away . 
Three months Mobits stop in that place . 
He steal two pounds of flour . 
For that , white man take plenty good care of him . 
Mobits eat many pounds of flour , many pounds of sugar , of bacon , of beans without end . 
Also , Mobits drink much tea . 
After three months white man open door and tell Mobits he must go . 
Mobits does not want to go . 
He is like dog that is fed long time in one place . 
He want to stay in that place , and the white man must drive Mobits away . 
So Mobits come back to this village , and he is very fat . 
That is the white man's way , and there is no understanding it . 
It is a foolishness , a great foolishness . 
But thy sons ? I insisted . 
Thy very strong sons and thine old age hunger ? There was Moklan , Ebbits began . 
A strong man , interrupted the mother . 
He could dip paddle all of a day and night and never stop for the need of rest . 
He was wise in the way of the salmon and in the way of the water . 
There was Moklan , Ebbits repeated , ignoring the interruption . 
In the spring , he went down the Yukon with the young men to trade at Cambell Fort . 
There is a post there , filled with the goods of the white man , and a trader whose name is Jones . 
Likewise is there a white man's medicine man , what you call missionary . 
Moklan is my son , wherefore he is brave man Was not my father brave man ? Zilla demanded . 
Thy father was brave man , Ebbits acknowledged , with the air of one who will keep peace in the house at any cost . 
Moklan is thy son and mine , wherefore he is brave . 
Mayhap , because of thy very brave father , Moklan is too brave . 
It is like when too much water is put in the pot it spills over . 
So too much bravery is put into Moklan , and the bravery spills over . 
The young men are much afraid of the bad water at Cambell Fort . 
But Moklan is not afraid . 
He laughs strong , Ho ! ho ! and he goes forth into the bad water . 
But where the currents come together the canoe is turned over . 
A whirl takes Moklan by the legs , and he goes around and around , and down and down , and is seen no more . 
Ai ! ai ! wailed Zilla . 
Crafty and wise was he , and my first born ! I am the father of Moklan , Ebbits said , having patiently given the woman space for her noise . 
I get into canoe and journey down to Cambell Fort to collect the debt ! Debt ! interrupted . 
What debt ? The debt of Jones , who is chief trader , came the answer . 
Such is the law of travel in a strange country . 
I shook my head in token of my ignorance , and Ebbits looked compassion at me , while Zilla snorted her customary contempt . 
Look you , O White Man , he said . 
In thy camp is a dog that bites . 
When the dog bites a man , you give that man a present because you are sorry and because it is thy dog . 
Is it not so ? Also , if you have in thy country bad hunting , or bad water , you must make payment . 
It was bad hunting , and the Tanana people made payment for the bad hunting . 
So I , Ebbits , journeyed down to Cambell Fort to collect the debt . 
Jones , who is chief trader , looked at me , and he laughed . 
He made great laughter , and would not give payment . 
I went to the medicine man , what you call missionary , and had large talk about the bad water and the payment that should be mine . 
And the missionary made talk about other things . 
He talk about where Moklan has gone , now he is dead . 
There be large fires in that place , and if missionary make true talk , I know that Moklan will be cold no more . 
Also the missionary talk about where I shall go when I am dead . 
And he say bad things . 
He say that I am blind . 
He say that I am in great darkness . 
And I say that the day come and the night come for everybody just the same , and that in my village it is no more dark than at Cambell Fort . 
Also , I say that darkness and light and where we go when we die be different things from the matter of payment of just debt for bad water . 
Then the missionary make large anger , and call me bad names of darkness , and tell me to go away . 
And so I come back from Cambell Fort , and no payment has been made , and Moklan is dead , and in my old age I am without fish and meat . 
Because of the white man , said Zilla . 
Because of the white man , Ebbits concurred . 
And other things because of the white man . 
One way did the white man deal with him and yet another way for the same thing did the white man deal with Yamikan . 
And first must I tell you of Yamikan , who was a young man of this village and who chanced to kill a white man . 
It is not good to kill a man of another people . 
Always is there great trouble . 
It was not the fault of Yamikan that he killed the white man . 
Yamikan spoke always soft words and ran away from wrath as a dog from a stick . 
But this white man drank much whiskey , and in the night time came to Yamikan's house and made much fight . 
Yamikan cannot run away , and the white man tries to kill him . 
Yamikan does not like to die , so he kills the white man . 
Then is all the village in great trouble . 
After long time white men come . 
They are soldier white men , and they take Yamikan away with them . 
His mother make great noise and throw ashes in her hair , for she knows Yamikan is dead . 
And all the village knows that Yamikan is dead , and is glad that no payment is asked . 
That is in the spring when the ice has gone out of the river . 
One year go by , two years go by . 
It is spring time again , and the ice has gone out of the river . 
He has much fine clothes and is all the same white man , and he has gathered large wisdom so that he is very quick head man in the village . 
First place , soldier white men take him down the river long way . 
All the way do they take him down the river to the end , where it runs into a lake which is larger than all the land and large as the sky . 
I do not know the Yukon is so big river , but Yamikan has seen with his own eyes . 
I do not think there is a lake larger than all the land and large as the sky , but Yamikan has seen . 
Also , he has told me that the waters of this lake be salt , which is a strange thing and beyond understanding . 
But the White Man knows all these marvels for himself , so I shall not weary him with the telling of them . 
Only will I tell him what happened to Yamikan . 
The white man give Yamikan much fine grub . 
All the time does Yamikan eat , and all the time is there plenty more grub . 
And under the sun there is never famine . 
Always is there plenty grub . 
And here is a strange thing that befell Yamikan . 
Never did the white man hurt him . 
Only did they give him warm bed at night and plenty fine grub . 
They take him across the salt lake which is big as the sky . 
He is on white man's fire boat , what you call steamboat , only he is on boat maybe twenty times bigger than steamboat on Yukon . 
Also , it is made of iron , this boat , and yet does it not sink . 
This I do not understand , but Yamikan has said , 'I have journeyed far on the iron boat behold ! I am still alive . 
It is a white man's soldier boat with many soldier men upon it . 
After many sleeps of travel , a long , long time , Yamikan comes to a land where there is no snow . 
It is not in the nature of things that when winter comes there shall be no snow . 
Also have I asked the white men , and they have said yes , there is no snow in that country . 
But I cannot believe , and now I ask you if snow never come in that country . 
Also , I would hear the name of that country . 
I have heard the name before , but I would hear it again , if it be the same thus will I know if I have heard lies or true talk . 
Old Ebbits regarded me with a wistful face . 
He would have the truth at any cost , though it was his desire to retain his faith in the marvel he had never seen . 
Yes , I answered , it is true talk that you have heard . 
There is no snow in that country , and its name is California . 
Cal ee forn ee yeh , he mumbled twice and thrice , listening intently to the sound of the syllables as they fell from his lips . 
He nodded his head in confirmation . 
Yes , it is the same country of which Yamikan made talk . 
I recognized the adventure of Yamikan as one likely to occur in the early days when Alaska first passed into the possession of the United States . 
Such a murder case , occurring before the instalment of territorial law and officials , might well have been taken down to the United States for trial before a Federal court . 
When Yamikan is in this country where there is no snow , old Ebbits continued , he is taken to large house where many men make much talk . 
Also many questions do they ask Yamikan . 
By and by they tell Yamikan he have no more trouble . 
Yamikan does not understand , for never has he had any trouble . 
All the time have they given him warm place to sleep and plenty grub . 
After two years , Yamikan comes back to this village , and he is head man , and very wise until he dies . 
But before he dies , many times does he sit by my fire and make talk of the strange things he has seen . 
And Bidarshik , who is my son , sits by the fire and listens and his eyes are very wide and large because of the things he hears . 
Always did Bidarshik journey in far places , Zilla interrupted proudly . 
It be true , Ebbits assented gravely . 
And always did he return to sit by the fire and hunger for yet other and unknown far places . 
And always did he remember the salt lake as big as the sky and the country under the sun where there is no snow , quoth Zilla . 
But there was no way to go to the white man's country , said Zilla . 
Did he not go down to the salt lake that is big as the sky ? Ebbits demanded . 
And there was no way for him across the salt lake , said Zilla . 
Save in the white man's fire boat which is of iron and is bigger than twenty steamboats on the Yukon , said Ebbits . 
He scowled at Zilla , whose withered lips were again writhing into speech , and compelled her to silence . 
Yet on the salt lake had he seen the fire boat of iron that did not sink , cried out Zilla the irrepressible . 
Ay , said Ebbits , and he saw that Yamikan had made true talk of the things he had seen . 
No longer did he go forth to kill meat And no longer did he eat the meat placed before him , Zilla broke in . 
He would shake his head and say , 'Only do I care to eat the grub of the white man and grow fat after the manner of Yamikan . 
And he did not eat the meat , Ebbits went on . 
And the sickness of Bidarshik grew into a great sickness until I thought he would die . 
It was not a sickness of the body , but of the head . 
It was a sickness of desire . 
I , Ebbits , who am his father , make a great think . 
I have no more sons and I do not want Bidarshik to die . 
It is a head sickness , and there is but one way to make it well . 
Bidarshik must journey across the lake as large as the sky to the land where there is no snow , else will he die . 
I make a very great think , and then I see the way for Bidarshik to go . 
He looks at me , and his face is glad . 
'Go , I say , 'even as Yamikan went . 
But Bidarshik is sick and does not understand . 
'Go forth , I say , 'and find a white man , and , even as Yamikan , do you kill that white man . 
Then will the soldier white men come and get you , and even as they took Yamikan will they take you across the salt lake to the white man's land . 
And then , even as Yamikan , will you return very fat , your eyes full of the things you have seen , your head filled with wisdom . 
And Bidarshik stands up very quick , and his hand is reaching out for his gun . 
'Where do you go ? I ask . 
'To kill the white man , he says . 
And I see that my words have been good in the ears of Bidarshik and that he will grow well again . 
Also do I know that my words have been wise . 
There is a white man come to this village . 
He does not seek after gold in the ground , nor after furs in the forest . 
All the time does he seek after bugs and flies . 
He does not eat the bugs and flies , then why does he seek after them ? I do not know . 
Only do I know that he is a funny white man . 
Also does he seek after the eggs of birds . 
He does not eat the eggs . 
All that is inside he takes out , and only does he keep the shell . 
Eggshell is not good to eat . 
Nor does he eat the eggshells , but puts them away in soft boxes where they will not break . 
He catch many small birds . 
But he does not eat the birds . 
He takes only the skins and puts them away in boxes . 
Also does he like bones . 
Bones are not good to eat . 
And this strange white man likes best the bones of long time ago which he digs out of the ground . 
And Bidarshik says that my words be wise . 
So he goes to a place he knows where are many bones in the ground . 
He digs up very many of these bones and brings them to the strange white man's camp . 
The white man is made very glad . 
His face shines like the sun , and he smiles with much gladness as he looks at the bones . 
'Now , I say to Bidarshik , 'will the white soldier men come and take you away to the land under the sun , where you will eat much and grow fat . 
Already has his sickness gone from him , and he sits by the fire and waits for the coming of the white soldier men . 
How was I to know the way of the white man is never twice the same ? the old man demanded , whirling upon me fiercely . 
There is no understanding the white man . 
Yesterday he takes Yamikan to the land under the sun and makes him fat with much grub . 
To day he takes Bidarshik and what does he do with Bidarshik ? Let me tell you what he does with Bidarshik . 
I , Ebbits , his father , will tell you . 
He takes Bidarshik to Cambell Fort , and he ties a rope around his neck , so , and , when his feet are no more on the ground , he dies . 
Ai ! ai ! wailed Zilla . 
And never does he cross the lake large as the sky , nor see the land under the sun where there is no snow . 
Because of the lying and very miserable white people , Zilla proclaimed shrilly . 
Nay , answered the old man with gentle positiveness . 
Because of the way of the white man , which is without understanding and never twice the same . 
He was a bright boy , so the tale runs , healthy and strong , and he had seen thirteen suns , in their way of reckoning time . 
For each winter the sun leaves the land in darkness , and the next year a new sun returns so that they may be warm again and look upon one another's faces . 
In his eagerness he came to close grapples with the bear , and his bones were crushed but the bear had much meat on him and the people were saved . 
Keesh was his only son , and after that Keesh lived alone with his mother . 
With the dignity of an elder , he rose to his feet , and waited for silence amid the babble of voices . 
It is true that meat be apportioned me and mine , he said . 
But it is ofttimes old and tough , this meat , and , moreover , it has an unusual quantity of bones . 
The hunters , grizzled and gray , and lusty and young , were aghast . 
The like had never been known before . 
A child , that talked like a grown man , and said harsh things to their very faces ! But steadily and with seriousness , Keesh went on . 
For that I know my father , Bok , was a great hunter , I speak these words . 
Na ! Na ! the men cried . 
Put the child out ! Send him off to bed ! He is no man that he should talk to men and graybeards ! He waited calmly till the uproar died down . 
Thou hast a wife , Ugh Gluk , he said , and for her dost thou speak . 
And thou , too , Massuk , a mother also , and for them dost thou speak . 
My mother has no one , save me wherefore I speak . 
I , Keesh , the son of Bok , have spoken . 
He sat down , his ears keenly alert to the flood of protest and indignation his words had created . 
That a boy should speak in council ! old Ugh Gluk was mumbling . 
Shall the babes in arms tell us men the things we shall do ? Massuk demanded in a loud voice . 
Am I a man that I should be made a mock by every child that cries for meat ? The anger boiled a white heat . 
They ordered him to bed , threatened that he should have no meat at all , and promised him sore beatings for his presumption . 
Keesh's eyes began to flash , and the blood to pound darkly under his skin . 
In the midst of the abuse he sprang to his feet . 
Hear me , ye men ! he cried . 
Take this now , ye men , for my last word . 
Bok , my father , was a great hunter . 
I , too , his son , shall go and hunt the meat that I eat . 
And be it known , now , that the division of that which I kill shall be fair . 
And no widow nor weak one shall cry in the night because there is no meat , when the strong men are groaning in great pain for that they have eaten overmuch . 
And in the days to come there shall be shame upon the strong men who have eaten overmuch . 
The next day he went forth along the shore line where the ice and the land met together . 
Those who saw him go noted that he carried his bow , with a goodly supply of bone barbed arrows , and that across his shoulder was his father's big hunting spear . 
And there was laughter , and much talk , at the event . 
It was an unprecedented occurrence . 
Never did boys of his tender age go forth to hunt , much less to hunt alone . 
Also were there shaking of heads and prophetic mutterings , and the women looked pityingly at Ikeega , and her face was grave and sad . 
He will be back ere long , they said cheeringly . 
Let him go it will teach him a lesson , the hunters said . 
And he will come back shortly , and he will be meek and soft of speech in the days to follow . 
But a day passed , and a second , and on the third a wild gale blew , and there was no Keesh . 
Early next morning , however , Keesh strode into the village . 
But he came not shamefacedly . 
Across his shoulders he bore a burden of fresh killed meat . 
And there was importance in his step and arrogance in his speech . 
Go , ye men , with the dogs and sledges , and take my trail for the better part of a day's travel , he said . 
There is much meat on the ice a she bear and two half grown cubs . 
Ikeega was overcome with joy , but he received her demonstrations in manlike fashion , saying Come , Ikeega , let us eat . 
And after that I shall sleep , for I am weary . 
And he passed into their IGLOO and ate profoundly , and after that slept for twenty running hours . 
There was much doubt at first , much doubt and discussion . 
The killing of a polar bear is very dangerous , but thrice dangerous is it , and three times thrice , to kill a mother bear with her cubs . 
The men could not bring themselves to believe that the boy Keesh , single handed , had accomplished so great a marvel . 
But the women spoke of the fresh killed meat he had brought on his back , and this was an overwhelming argument against their unbelief . 
So they finally departed , grumbling greatly that in all probability , if the thing were so , he had neglected to cut up the carcasses . 
Now in the north it is very necessary that this should be done as soon as a kill is made . 
Thus began the mystery of Keesh , a mystery that deepened and deepened with the passing of the days . 
His very next trip he killed a young bear , nearly full grown , and on the trip following , a large male bear and his mate . 
He was ordinarily gone from three to four days , though it was nothing unusual for him to stay away a week at a time on the ice field . 
Always he declined company on these expeditions , and the people marvelled . 
How does he do it ? they demanded of one another . 
Never does he take a dog with him , and dogs are of such great help , too . 
Why dost thou hunt only bear ? Klosh Kwan once ventured to ask him . 
And Keesh made fitting answer . 
It is well known that there is more meat on the bear , he said . 
But there was also talk of witchcraft in the village . 
He hunts with evil spirits , some of the people contended , wherefore his hunting is rewarded . 
How else can it be , save that he hunts with evil spirits ? Mayhap they be not evil , but good , these spirits , others said . 
It is known that his father was a mighty hunter . 
And in the division of it he was just . 
Because of the things he had done , they looked for him to appear again in the council , but he never came , and they were ashamed to ask . 
I am minded to build me an IGLOO , he said one day to Klosh Kwan and a number of the hunters . 
It shall be a large IGLOO , wherein Ikeega and I can dwell in comfort . 
Ay , they nodded gravely . 
But I have no time . 
My business is hunting , and it takes all my time . 
So it is but just that the men and women of the village who eat my meat should build me my IGLOO . 
And the IGLOO was built accordingly , on a generous scale which exceeded even the dwelling of Klosh Kwan . 
Keesh and his mother moved into it , and it was the first prosperity she had enjoyed since the death of Bok . 
But it was the mystery of Keesh's marvellous hunting that took chief place in all their minds . 
And one day Ugh Gluk taxed him with witchcraft to his face . 
It is charged , Ugh Gluk said ominously , that thou dealest with evil spirits , wherefore thy hunting is rewarded . 
Is not the meat good ? Keesh made answer . 
So , on his next trip , Bim and Bawn , two young men , and of hunters the craftiest , followed after him , taking care not to be seen . 
After five days they returned , their eyes bulging and their tongues a tremble to tell what they had seen . 
The council was hastily called in Klosh Kwan's dwelling , and Bim took up the tale . 
Brothers ! As commanded , we journeyed on the trail of Keesh , and cunningly we journeyed , so that he might not know . 
And midway of the first day he picked up with a great he bear . 
It was a very great bear . 
None greater , Bawn corroborated , and went on himself . 
Yet was the bear not inclined to fight , for he turned away and made off slowly over the ice . 
This we saw from the rocks of the shore , and the bear came toward us , and after him came Keesh , very much unafraid . 
And he shouted harsh words after the bear , and waved his arms about , and made much noise . 
Then did the bear grow angry , and rise up on his hind legs , and growl . 
But Keesh walked right up to the bear . 
Ay , Bim continued the story . 
Right up to the bear Keesh walked . 
And the bear took after him , and Keesh ran away . 
But as he ran he dropped a little round ball on the ice . 
And the bear stopped and smelled of it , then swallowed it up . 
And Keesh continued to run away and drop little round balls , and the bear continued to swallow them up . 
Exclamations and cries of doubt were being made , and Ugh Gluk expressed open unbelief . 
With our own eyes we saw it , Bim affirmed . 
And Bawn Ay , with our own eyes . 
And this continued until the bear stood suddenly upright and cried aloud in pain , and thrashed his fore paws madly about . 
And Keesh continued to make off over the ice to a safe distance . 
But the bear gave him no notice , being occupied with the misfortune the little round balls had wrought within him . 
Ay , within him , Bim interrupted . 
Never did I see such a sight ! Nay , never was such a sight seen , Bawn took up the strain . 
And furthermore , it was such a large bear . 
Witchcraft , Ugh Gluk suggested . 
I know not , Bawn replied . 
I tell only of what my eyes beheld . 
And Keesh followed after the bear , and we followed after Keesh , and for that day and three days more we followed . 
The bear grew weak , and never ceased crying from his pain . 
It was a charm ! Ugh Gluk exclaimed . 
Surely it was a charm ! It may well be . 
By this time he was quite sick , the bear , and could crawl no farther , so Keesh came up close and speared him to death . 
And then ? Klosh Kwan demanded . 
Then we left Keesh skinning the bear , and came running that the news of the killing might be told . 
And in the afternoon of that day the women hauled in the meat of the bear while the men sat in council assembled . 
When Keesh arrived a messenger was sent to him , bidding him come to the council . 
But he sent reply , saying that he was hungry and tired also that his IGLOO was large and comfortable and could hold many men . 
And curiosity was so strong on the men that the whole council , Klosh Kwan to the fore , rose up and went to the IGLOO of Keesh . 
He was eating , but he received them with respect and seated them according to their rank . 
Ikeega was proud and embarrassed by turns , but Keesh was quite composed . 
Klosh Kwan recited the information brought by Bim and Bawn , and at its close said in a stern voice So explanation is wanted , O Keesh , of thy manner of hunting . 
Is there witchcraft in it ? Keesh looked up and smiled . 
Nay , O Klosh Kwan . 
It is not for a boy to know aught of witches , and of witches I know nothing . 
I have but devised a means whereby I may kill the ice bear with ease , that is all . 
It be headcraft , not witchcraft . 
And may any man ? Any man . 
There was a long silence . 
The men looked in one another's faces , and Keesh went on eating . 
and wilt thou tell us , O Keesh ? Klosh Kwan finally asked in a tremulous voice . 
Yea , I will tell thee . 
Keesh finished sucking a marrow bone and rose to his feet . 
Behold ! He picked up a thin strip of whalebone and showed it to them . 
The ends were sharp as needle points . 
The strip he coiled carefully , till it disappeared in his hand . 
Then , suddenly releasing it , it sprang straight again . 
He picked up a piece of blubber . 
So , he said , one takes a small chunk of blubber , thus , and thus makes it hollow . 
Then into the hollow goes the whalebone , so , tightly coiled , and another piece of blubber is fitted over the whale bone . 
After that it is put outside where it freezes into a little round ball . 
And Ugh Gluk said Oh ! and Klosh Kwan said Ah ! And each said something after his own manner , and all understood . 
And this is the story of Keesh , who lived long ago on the rim of the polar sea . 
THE UNEXPECTED IT is a simple matter to see the obvious , to do the expected . 
When the unexpected does happen , however , and when it is of sufficiently grave import , the unfit perish . 
They do not see what is not obvious , are unable to do the unexpected , are incapable of adjusting their well grooved lives to other and strange grooves . 
In short , when they come to the end of their own groove , they die . 
Such an individual was Edith Whittlesey . 
She went into service early , and while yet a young woman , by rule of thumb progression , she became a lady's maid . 
The effect of civilization is to impose human law upon environment until it becomes machine like in its regularity . 
The objectionable is eliminated , the inevitable is foreseen . 
Such was the environment of Edith Whittlesey . 
It could scarcely be called a happening , when , at the age of twenty five , she accompanied her mistress on a bit of travel to the United States . 
The groove merely changed its direction . 
It was still the same groove and well oiled . 
Hans Nelson , immigrant , Swede by birth and carpenter by occupation , had in him that Teutonic unrest that drives the race ever westward on its great adventure . 
When I have worked hard and saved me some money , I will go to Colorado , he had told Edith on the day after their wedding . 
A year later they were in Colorado , where Hans Nelson saw his first mining and caught the mining fever himself . 
His prospecting led him through the Dakotas , Idaho , and eastern Oregon , and on into the mountains of British Columbia . 
In camp and on trail , Edith Nelson was always with him , sharing his luck , his hardship , and his toil . 
The short step of the house reared woman she exchanged for the long stride of the mountaineer . 
Edith Nelson met the unexpected at every turn of the trail , and she trained her vision so that she saw in the landscape , not the obvious , but the concealed . 
Also , she could build a fire of wet wood in a downpour of rain and not lose her temper . 
In short , in all its guises she mastered the unexpected . 
But the Great Unexpected was yet to come into her life and put its test upon her . 
The gold seeking tide was flooding northward into Alaska , and it was inevitable that Hans Nelson and his wife should he caught up by the stream and swept toward the Klondike . 
The fall of found them at Dyea , but without the money to carry an outfit across Chilcoot Pass and float it down to Dawson . 
So Hans Nelson worked at his trade that winter and helped rear the mushroom outfitting town of Skaguay . 
He was on the edge of things , and throughout the winter he heard all Alaska calling to him . 
Latuya Bay called loudest , so that the summer of found him and his wife threading the mazes of the broken coast line in seventy foot Siwash canoes . 
With them were Indians , also three other men . 
Each had put an equal share of capital into the outfitting , and the profits were to he divided equally . 
In that Edith Nelson undertook to cook for the outfit , a man's share was to be her portion . 
First , spruce trees were cut down and a three room cabin constructed . 
To keep this cabin was Edith Nelson's task . 
The task of the men was to search for gold , which they did and to find gold , which they likewise did . 
It was not a startling find , merely a low pay placer where long hours of severe toil earned each man between fifteen and twenty dollars a day . 
The brief Alaskan summer protracted itself beyond its usual length , and they took advantage of the opportunity , delaying their return to Skaguay to the last moment . 
And then it was too late . 
Arrangements had been made to accompany the several dozen local Indians on their fall trading trip down the coast . 
The Siwashes had waited on the white people until the eleventh hour , and then departed . 
There was no course left the party but to wait for chance transportation . 
In the meantime the claim was cleaned up and firewood stocked in . 
The Indian summer had dreamed on and on , and then , suddenly , with the sharpness of bugles , winter came . 
It came in a single night , and the miners awoke to howling wind , driving snow , and freezing water . 
All went well in the cabin . 
Their gold dust had weighed up something like eight thousand dollars , and they could not but be contented . 
The men made snowshoes , hunted fresh meat for the larder , and in the long evenings played endless games of whist and pedro . 
Now that the mining had ceased , Edith Nelson turned over the fire building and the dish washing to the men , while she darned their socks and mended their clothes . 
There was no grumbling , no bickering , nor petty quarrelling in the little cabin , and they often congratulated one another on the general happiness of the party . 
Hans Nelson was stolid and easy going , while Edith had long before won his unbounded admiration by her capacity for getting on with people . 
The fourth member of the party , Michael Dennin , contributed his Irish wit to the gayety of the cabin . 
He was a large , powerful man , prone to sudden rushes of anger over little things , and of unfailing good humor under the stress and strain of big things . 
The fifth and last member , Dutchy , was the willing butt of the party . 
He even went out of his way to raise a laugh at his own expense in order to keep things cheerful . 
His deliberate aim in life seemed to be that of a maker of laughter . 
And then the unexpected happened . 
They had just sat down to the breakfast table . 
a candle in the neck of a bottle lighted the meal . 
Edith and Hans sat at each end of the table . 
On one side , with their backs to the door , sat Harkey and Dutchy . 
The place on the other side was vacant . 
Dennin had not yet come in . 
Hans Nelson looked at the empty chair , shook his head slowly , and , with a ponderous attempt at humor , said Always is he first at the grub . 
Where is Michael ? Edith asked . 
Got up a little ahead of us and went outside , Harkey answered . 
He pretended knowledge of Dennin's absence , and affected a mysterious air , while they clamored for information . 
Edith , after a peep into the men's bunk room , returned to the table . 
Hans looked at her , and she shook her head . 
He was never late at meal time before , she remarked . 
I cannot understand , said Hans . 
Always has he the great appetite like the horse . 
It is too bad , Dutchy said , with a sad shake of his head . 
They were beginning to make merry over their comrade's absence . 
It is a great pity ! Dutchy volunteered . 
What ? they demanded in chorus . 
Poor Michael , was the mournful reply . 
Well , what's wrong with Michael ? Harkey asked . 
He is not hungry no more , wailed Dutchy . 
He has lost der appetite . 
He do not like der grub . 
Not from the way he pitches into it up to his ears , remarked Harkey . 
He does dot shust to be politeful to Mrs. Nelson , was Dutchy's quick retort . 
I know , I know , and it is too pad . 
Why is he not here ? Pecause he haf gone out . 
Why haf he gone out ? For der defelopment of der appetite . 
How does he defelop der appetite ? He walks barefoots in der snow . 
Ach ! don't I know ? It is der way der rich peoples chases after der appetite when it is no more and is running away . 
Michael haf sixteen hundred dollars . 
Derefore , pecause , he is chasing der appetite . 
Shust you open der door und you will see his barefoots in der snow . 
No , you will not see der appetite . 
Dot is shust his trouble . 
When he sees der appetite he will catch it und come to preak fast . 
They burst into loud laughter at Dutchy's nonsense . 
The sound had scarcely died away when the door opened and Dennin came in . 
All turned to look at him . 
He was carrying a shot gun . 
Even as they looked , he lifted it to his shoulder and fired twice . 
At the first shot Dutchy sank upon the table , overturning his mug of coffee , his yellow mop of hair dabbling in his plate of mush . 
His forehead , which pressed upon the near edge of the plate , tilted the plate up against his hair at an angle of forty five degrees . 
Hans and Edith were stunned . 
They sat at the table with bodies tense , their eyes fixed in a fascinated gaze upon the murderer . 
Dimly they saw him through the smoke of the powder , and in the silence nothing was to be heard save the drip drip of Dutchy's spilled coffee on the floor . 
Dennin threw open the breech of the shot gun , ejecting the empty shells . 
Holding the gun with one hand , he reached with the other into his pocket for fresh shells . 
He was thrusting the shells into the gun when Edith Nelson was aroused to action . 
It was patent that he intended to kill Hans and her . 
For a space of possibly three seconds of time she had been dazed and paralysed by the horrible and inconceivable form in which the unexpected had made its appearance . 
Then she rose to it and grappled with it . 
She grappled with it concretely , making a cat like leap for the murderer and gripping his neck cloth with both her hands . 
The impact of her body sent him stumbling backward several steps . 
He tried to shake her loose and still retain his hold on the gun . 
This was awkward , for her firm fleshed body had become a cat's . 
She threw herself to one side , and with her grip at his throat nearly jerked him to the floor . 
He straightened himself and whirled swiftly . 
Hans Nelson was half a second behind his wife in rising to the unexpected . 
His nerve processed and mental processes were slower than hers . 
His was the grosser organism , and it had taken him half a second longer to perceive , and determine , and proceed to do . 
She had already flown at Dennin and gripped his throat , when Hans sprang to his feet . 
But her coolness was not his . 
He was in a blind fury , a Berserker rage . 
At the instant he sprang from his chair his mouth opened and there issued forth a sound that was half roar , half bellow . 
The whirl of the two bodies had already started , and still roaring , or bellowing , he pursued this whirl down the room , overtaking it when it fell to the floor . 
Hans hurled himself upon the prostrate man , striking madly with his fists . 
They were sledge like blows , and when Edith felt Dennin's body relax she loosed her grip and rolled clear . 
She lay on the floor , panting and watching . 
The fury of blows continued to rain down . 
Dennin did not seem to mind the blows . 
He did not even move . 
Then it dawned upon her that he was unconscious . 
She cried out to Hans to stop . 
But he paid no heed to her voice . 
She caught him by the arm , but her clinging to it merely impeded his effort . 
It was no reasoned impulse that stirred her to do what she then did . 
Nor was it a sense of pity , nor obedience to the Thou shalt not of religion . 
Rather was it some sense of law , an ethic of her race and early environment , that compelled her to interpose her body between her husband and the helpless murderer . 
It was not until Hans knew he was striking his wife that he ceased . 
He allowed himself to be shoved away by her in much the same way that a ferocious but obedient dog allows itself to be shoved away by its master . 
The analogy went even farther . 
Back and farther back Edith shoved her husband . 
She had never seen him in such a condition , and she was more frightened of him than she had been of Dennin in the thick of the struggle . 
For some seconds , unwilling to hurt her , yet dogged in his desire to return to the attack , Hans dodged back and forth . 
But she resolutely dodged with him , until the first glimmerings of reason returned and he gave over . 
Both crawled to their feet . 
Hans staggered back against the wall , where he leaned , his face working , in his throat the deep and continuous rumble that died away with the seconds and at last ceased . 
The time for the reaction had come . 
Edith stood in the middle of the floor , wringing her hands , panting and gasping , her whole body trembling violently . 
Hans looked at nothing , but Edith's eyes wandered wildly from detail to detail of what had taken place . 
The overturned chair , hurled onward in the mad whirl , lay near him . 
Partly under him lay the shot gun , still broken open at the breech . 
Spilling out of his right hand were the two cartridges which he had failed to put into the gun and which he had clutched until consciousness left him . 
This tilted plate fascinated her . 
Why did it not fall down ? It was ridiculous . 
It was not in the nature of things for a mush plate to up end itself on the table , even if a man or so had been killed . 
She glanced back at Dennin , but her eyes returned to the tilted plate . 
It was so ridiculous ! She felt a hysterical impulse to laugh . 
Then she noticed the silence , and forgot the plate in a desire for something to happen . 
The monotonous drip of the coffee from the table to the floor merely emphasized the silence . 
Why did not Hans do something ? say something ? She looked at him and was about to speak , when she discovered that her tongue refused its wonted duty . 
There was a peculiar ache in her throat , and her mouth was dry and furry . 
She could only look at Hans , who , in turn , looked at her . 
Suddenly the silence was broken by a sharp , metallic clang . 
She screamed , jerking her eyes back to the table . 
The plate had fallen down . 
Hans sighed as though awakening from sleep . 
The clang of the plate had aroused them to life in a new world . 
The cabin epitomized the new world in which they must thenceforth live and move . 
The old cabin was gone forever . 
The horizon of life was totally new and unfamiliar . 
The unexpected had swept its wizardry over the face of things , changing the perspective , juggling values , and shuffling the real and the unreal into perplexing confusion . 
My God , Hans ! was Edith's first speech . 
He did not answer , but stared at her with horror . 
Slowly his eyes wandered over the room , for the first time taking in its details . 
Then he put on his cap and started for the door . 
Where are you going ? Edith demanded , in an agony of apprehension . 
His hand was on the door knob , and he half turned as he answered , To dig some graves . 
Don't leave me , Hans , with her eyes swept the room with this . 
The graves must be dug sometime , he said . 
But you do not know how many , she objected desperately . 
She noted his indecision , and added , Besides , I'll go with you and help . 
Hans stepped back to the table and mechanically snuffed the candle . 
Then between them they made the examination . 
Both Harkey and Dutchy were dead frightfully dead , because of the close range of the shot gun . 
Hans refused to go near Dennin , and Edith was forced to conduct this portion of the investigation by herself . 
He isn't dead , she called to Hans . 
He walked over and looked down at the murderer . 
What did you say ? Edith demanded , having caught the rumble of inarticulate speech in her husband's throat . 
I said it was a damn shame that he isn't dead , came the reply . 
Edith was bending over the body . 
Leave him alone , Hans commanded harshly , in a strange voice . 
She looked at him in sudden alarm . 
He had picked up the shot gun dropped by Dennin and was thrusting in the shells . 
What are you going to do ? she cried , rising swiftly from her bending position . 
Hans did not answer , but she saw the shot gun going to his shoulder . 
She grasped the muzzle with her hand and threw it up . 
Leave me alone ! he cried hoarsely . 
He tried to jerk the weapon away from her , but she came in closer and clung to him . 
Hans ! Hans ! Wake up ! she cried . 
Don't be crazy ! He killed Dutchy and Harkey ! was her husband's reply and I am going to kill him . 
But that is wrong , she objected . 
He sneered his incredulity of the law's potency in such a region , but he merely iterated , dispassionately , doggedly , He killed Dutchy and Harkey . 
Long she argued it with him , but the argument was one sided , for he contented himself with repeating again and again , He killed Dutchy and Harkey . 
But she could not escape from her childhood training nor from the blood that was in her . 
The heritage of law was hers , and right conduct , to her , was the fulfilment of the law . 
She could see no other righteous course to pursue . 
Hans's taking the law in his own hands was no more justifiable than Dennin's deed . 
Two wrongs did not make a right , she contended , and there was only one way to punish Dennin , and that was the legal way arranged by society . 
At last Hans gave in to her . 
All right , he said . 
Have it your own way . 
And to morrow or next day look to see him kill you and me . 
She shook her head and held out her hand for the shot gun . 
He started to hand it to her , then hesitated . 
Better let me shoot him , he pleaded . 
Again she shook her head , and again he started to pass her the gun , when the door opened , and an Indian , without knocking , came in . 
A blast of wind and flurry of snow came in with him . 
They turned and faced him , Hans still holding the shot gun . 
The intruder took in the scene without a quiver . 
His eyes embraced the dead and wounded in a sweeping glance . 
No surprise showed in his face , not even curiosity . 
Harkey lay at his feet , but he took no notice of him . 
So far as he was concerned , Harkey's body did not exist . 
Much wind , the Indian remarked by way of salutation . 
All well ? Very well ? Hans , still grasping the gun , felt sure that the Indian attributed to him the mangled corpses . 
He glanced appealingly at his wife . 
Good morning , Negook , she said , her voice betraying her effort . 
No , not very well . 
The man and woman looked at each other . 
He thinks we did it , Hans gasped , that I did it . 
Edith was silent for a space . 
Then she said , briefly , in a businesslike way Never mind what he thinks . 
At present we have two graves to dig . 
But first of all , we've got to tie up Dennin so he can't escape . 
Hans refused to touch Dennin , but Edith lashed him securely , hand and foot . 
Then she and Hans went out into the snow . 
It was impervious to a blow of the pick . 
They first gathered wood , then scraped the snow away and on the frozen surface built a fire . 
When the fire had burned for an hour , several inches of dirt had thawed . 
This they shovelled out , and then built a fresh fire . 
Their descent into the earth progressed at the rate of two or three inches an hour . 
It was hard and bitter work . 
The flurrying snow did not permit the fire to burn any too well , while the wind cut through their clothes and chilled their bodies . 
They held but little conversation . 
The wind interfered with speech . 
Beyond wondering at what could have been Dennin's motive , they remained silent , oppressed by the horror of the tragedy . 
At one o'clock , looking toward the cabin , Hans announced that he was hungry . 
No , not now , Hans , Edith answered . 
I couldn't go back alone into that cabin the way it is , and cook a meal . 
At two o'clock Hans volunteered to go with her but she held him to his work , and four o'clock found the two graves completed . 
They were shallow , not more than two feet deep , but they would serve the purpose . 
Hans got the sled , and the two dead men were dragged through the darkness and storm to their frozen sepulchre . 
The funeral procession was anything but a pageant . 
The sled sank deep into the drifted snow and pulled hard . 
The man and the woman had eaten nothing since the previous day , and were weak from hunger and exhaustion . 
They had not the strength to resist the wind , and at times its buffets hurled them off their feet . 
On several occasions the sled was overturned , and they were compelled to reload it with its sombre freight . 
To morrow I will put up head boards with their names , Hans said , when the graves were filled in . 
A few broken sentences had been all she was capable of in the way of a funeral service , and now her husband was compelled to half carry her back to the cabin . 
He had rolled over and over on the floor in vain efforts to free himself . 
He watched Hans and Edith with glittering eyes , but made no attempt to speak . 
Hans still refused to touch the murderer , and sullenly watched Edith drag him across the floor to the men's bunk room . 
But try as she would , she could not lift him from the floor into his bunk . 
Better let me shoot him , and we'll have no more trouble , Hans said in final appeal . 
Edith shook her head and bent again to her task . 
To her surprise the body rose easily , and she knew Hans had relented and was helping her . 
Then came the cleansing of the kitchen . 
But the floor still shrieked the tragedy , until Hans planed the surface of the stained wood away and with the shavings made a fire in the stove . 
The days came and went . 
There was much of darkness and silence , broken only by the storms and the thunder on the beach of the freezing surf . 
Hans was obedient to Edith's slightest order . 
All his splendid initiative had vanished . 
She had elected to deal with Dennin in her way , and so he left the whole matter in her hands . 
The murderer was a constant menace . 
At all times there was the chance that he might free himself from his bonds , and they were compelled to guard him day and night . 
The man or the woman sat always beside him , holding the loaded shot gun . 
At first , Edith tried eight hour watches , but the continuous strain was too great , and afterwards she and Hans relieved each other every four hours . 
As they had to sleep , and as the watches extended through the night , their whole waking time was expended in guarding Dennin . 
They had barely time left over for the preparation of meals and the getting of firewood . 
Since Negook's inopportune visit , the Indians had avoided the cabin . 
Edith sent Hans to their cabins to get them to take Dennin down the coast in a canoe to the nearest white settlement or trading post , but the errand was fruitless . 
Then Edith went herself and interviewed Negook . 
He was head man of the little village , keenly aware of his responsibility , and he elucidated his policy thoroughly in few words . 
It is white man's trouble , he said , not Siwash trouble . 
My people help you , then will it be Siwash trouble too . 
When white man's trouble and Siwash trouble come together and make a trouble , it is a great trouble , beyond understanding and without end . 
My people do no wrong . 
What for they help you and have trouble ? So Edith Nelson went back to the terrible cabin with its endless alternating four hour watches . 
Sometimes , when it was her turn and she sat by the prisoner , the loaded shot gun in her lap , her eyes would close and she would doze . 
Always she aroused with a start , snatching up the gun and swiftly looking at him . 
These were distinct nervous shocks , and their effect was not good on her . 
She was preparing herself for a nervous break down , and she knew it . 
First came a fluttering of the eyeballs , so that she was compelled to close her eyes for relief . 
A little later the eyelids were afflicted by a nervous twitching that she could not control . 
To add to the strain , she could not forget the tragedy . 
She remained as close to the horror as on the first morning when the unexpected stalked into the cabin and took possession . 
In her daily ministrations upon the prisoner she was forced to grit her teeth and steel herself , body and spirit . 
Always he cursed Dennin savagely and handled him roughly . 
Hans tried to conceal his homicidal mania , and he would say to his wife By and by you will want me to kill him , and then I will not kill him . 
It would make me sick . 
Hans ! she would cry , wake up ! and he would come to a recollection of himself , startled and shamefaced and unrepentant . 
So Hans became another factor in the problem the unexpected had given Edith Nelson to solve . 
But now entered Hans , and she saw that his sanity and his salvation were involved . 
Nor was she long in discovering that her own strength and endurance had become part of the problem . 
She was breaking down under the strain . 
Her left arm had developed involuntary jerkings and twitchings . 
She spilled her food from her spoon , and could place no reliance in her afflicted arm . 
She judged it to be a form of St . 
Vitus's dance , and she feared the extent to which its ravages might go . 
What if she broke down ? And the vision she had of the possible future , when the cabin might contain only Dennin and Hans , was an added horror . 
After the third day , Dennin had begun to talk . 
His first question had been , What are you going to do with me ? And this question he repeated daily and many times a day . 
And always Edith replied that he would assuredly be dealt with according to law . 
In turn , she put a daily question to him , Why did you do it ? To this he never replied . 
But in time Dennin grew more tractable . 
It seemed to her that he was growing weary of his unchanging recumbent position . 
He began to beg and plead to be released . 
He would do them no harm . 
He would himself go down the coast and give himself up to the officers of the law . 
He would give them his share of the gold . 
He would go away into the heart of the wilderness , and never again appear in civilization . 
He would take his own life if she would only free him . 
But the weeks went by , and he continued to grow more tractable . 
And through it all the weariness was asserting itself more and more . 
I am so tired , so tired , he would murmur , rolling his head back and forth on the pillow like a peevish child . 
The situation was fast becoming impossible . 
Edith's nervousness was increasing , and she knew her break down might come any time . 
She could not even get her proper rest , for she was haunted by the fear that Hans would yield to his mania and kill Dennin while she slept . 
Though January had already come , months would have to elapse before any trading schooner was even likely to put into the bay . 
Also , they had not expected to winter in the cabin , and the food was running low nor could Hans add to the supply by hunting . 
They were chained to the cabin by the necessity of guarding their prisoner . 
Something must be done , and she knew it . 
She forced herself to go back into a reconsideration of the problem . 
She could not shake off the legacy of her race , the law that was of her blood and that had been trained into her . 
It came to her that the law was nothing more than the judgment and the will of any group of people . 
It mattered not how large was the group of people . 
There were little groups , she reasoned , like Switzerland , and there were big groups like the United States . 
Also , she reasoned , it did not matter how small was the group of people . 
There might be only ten thousand people in a country , yet their collective judgment and will would be the law of that country . 
Why , then , could not one thousand people constitute such a group ? she asked herself . 
At first he could not comprehend , and then , when he did , he added convincing evidence . 
He spoke of miners' meetings , where all the men of a locality came together and made the law and executed the law . 
Edith saw her way clear at last . 
Between them they constituted the majority of this particular group . 
It was the group will that Dennin should be hanged . 
He refused to plead guilty or not guilty , and remained silent when she asked him if he had anything to say in his own defence . 
She and Hans , without leaving their seats , brought in the jury's verdict of guilty . 
Then , as judge , she imposed the sentence . 
Her voice shook , her eyelids twitched , her left arm jerked , but she carried it out . 
Michael Dennin , in three days' time you are to be hanged by the neck until you are dead . 
With the passing of the sentence a feeling of relief seemed to communicate itself to all of them . 
Especially was it noticeable in Dennin . 
All sullenness and defiance disappeared , and he talked sociably with his captors , and even with flashes of his old time wit . 
Also , he found great satisfaction in Edith's reading to him from the Bible . 
She read from the New Testament , and he took keen interest in the prodigal son and the thief on the cross . 
On the day preceding that set for the execution , when Edith asked her usual question , Why did you do it ? Dennin answered , 'Tis very simple . 
I was thinkin' But she hushed him abruptly , asked him to wait , and hurried to Hans's bedside . 
It was his watch off , and he came out of his sleep , rubbing his eyes and grumbling . 
Go , she told him , and bring up Negook and one other Indian . 
Take the rifle along and bring them up at the point of it if you have to . 
Half an hour later Negook and his uncle , Hadikwan , were ushered into the death chamber . 
They came unwillingly , Hans with his rifle herding them along . 
Negook , Edith said , there is to be no trouble for you and your people . 
Only is it for you to sit and do nothing but listen and understand . 
Thus did Michael Dennin , under sentence of death , make public confession of his crime . 
As he talked , Edith wrote his story down , while the Indians listened , and Hans guarded the door for fear the witnesses might bolt . 
An' how was I to be doin' it on sixteen hundred ? he demanded . 
What I was after wantin' was all the goold , the whole eight thousan' . 
Thin I cud go back in style . 
I did me duty to the devil , an' now , God willin' , I'll do me duty to God . 
Negook and Hadikwan , you have heard the white man's words , Edith said to the Indians . 
The two Siwashes put crosses opposite their signatures , received a summons to appear on the morrow with all their tribe for a further witnessing of things , and were allowed to go . 
Dennin's hands were released long enough for him to sign the document . 
Then a silence fell in the room . 
Hans was restless , and Edith felt uncomfortable . 
Dennin lay on his back , staring straight up at the moss chinked roof . 
An' now I'll do me duty to God , he murmured . 
He turned his head toward Edith . 
Read to me , he said , from the book then added , with a glint of playfulness , Mayhap 'twill help me to forget the bunk . 
The day of the execution broke clear and cold . 
The thermometer was down to twenty five below zero , and a chill wind was blowing which drove the frost through clothes and flesh to the bones . 
For the first time in many weeks Dennin stood upon his feet . 
His muscles had remained inactive so long , and he was so out of practice in maintaining an erect position , that he could scarcely stand . 
He reeled back and forth , staggered , and clutched hold of Edith with his bound hands for support . 
Sure , an' it's dizzy I am , he laughed weakly . 
A moment later he said , An' it's glad I am that it's over with . 
That damn bunk would iv been the death iv me , I know . 
An' in tin minutes' time what'll matter a frozen ear or so to poor Michael Dennin ? he asked . 
She had nerved herself for the last culminating ordeal , and his remark was like a blow to her self possession . 
Nor was her distress unnoticed by the Irishman . 
I'm sorry to be troublin' you with me foolish spache , he said regretfully . 
I mint nothin' by it . 
'Tis a great day for Michael Dennin , an' he's as gay as a lark . 
He broke out in a merry whistle , which quickly became lugubrious and ceased . 
I'm wishin' there was a priest , he said wistfully then added swiftly , But Michael Dennin's too old a campaigner to miss the luxuries when he hits the trail . 
He was so very weak and unused to walking that when the door opened and he passed outside , the wind nearly carried him off his feet . 
They climbed a slight hill and came out into an open space among the trees . 
Near by was an open grave which Hans had burned into the frozen earth . 
Sure , an' I couldn't iv done better meself , Hans , if it'd been for you . 
He laughed loudly at his own sally , but Hans's face was frozen into a sullen ghastliness that nothing less than the trump of doom could have broken . 
Also , Hans was feeling very sick . 
He had not realized the enormousness of the task of putting a fellow man out of the world . 
Edith , on the other hand , had realized but the realization did not make the task any easier . 
She was filled with doubt as to whether she could hold herself together long enough to finish it . 
It was only by a supreme effort of soul that she was able to keep upright and go on and do what she had to do . 
And in the midst of it all she was grateful to Dennin for the way he helped her . 
Lind me a hand , he said to Hans , with whose assistance he managed to mount the barrel . 
He bent over so that Edith could adjust the rope about his neck . 
Then he stood upright while Hans drew the rope taut across the overhead branch . 
Michael Dennin , have you anything to say ? Edith asked in a clear voice that shook in spite of her . 
Dennin shuffled his feet on the barrel , looked down bashfully like a man making his maiden speech , and cleared his throat . 
I'm glad it's over with , he said . 
You've treated me like a Christian , an' I'm thankin' you hearty for your kindness . 
Then may God receive you , a repentant sinner , she said . 
Ay , he answered , his deep voice as a response to her thin one , may God receive me , a repentant sinner . 
Good by , Michael , she cried , and her voice sounded desperate . 
She threw her weight against the barrel , but it did not overturn . 
Hans ! Quick ! Help me ! she cried faintly . 
She could feel her last strength going , and the barrel resisted her . 
Hans hurried to her , and the barrel went out from under Michael Dennin . 
She turned her back , thrusting her fingers into her ears . 
Then she began to laugh , harshly , sharply , metallically and Hans was shocked as he had not been shocked through the whole tragedy . 
Edith Nelson's break down had come . 
Even in her hysteria she knew it , and she was glad that she had been able to hold up under the strain until everything had been accomplished . 
Take me to the cabin , Hans , she managed to articulate . 
And let me rest , she added . 
Just let me rest , and rest , and rest . 
With Hans's arm around her , supporting her weight and directing her helpless steps , she went off across the snow . 
But the Indians remained solemnly to watch the working of the white man's law that compelled a man to dance upon the air . 
She sent a questing glance across the tall grass and in and out among the orchard trees . 
Where's Wolf ? she asked . 
He was here a moment ago . 
Walt Irvine drew himself away with a jerk from the metaphysics and poetry of the organic miracle of blossom , and surveyed the landscape . 
He was running a rabbit the last I saw of him . 
Wolf ! Wolf ! Here Wolf ! she called , as they left the clearing and took the trail that led down through the waxen belled manzanita jungle to the county road . 
Irvine thrust between his lips the little finger of each hand and lent to her efforts a shrill whistling . 
She covered her ears hastily and made a wry grimace . 
My ! for a poet , delicately attuned and all the rest of it , you can make unlovely noises . 
My ear drums are pierced . 
I was about to say a street arab , she concluded severely . 
Poesy does not prevent one from being practical at least it doesn't prevent ME . 
Mine is no futility of genius that can't sell gems to the magazines . 
He assumed a mock extravagance , and went on I am no attic singer , no ballroom warbler . 
And why ? Because I am practical . 
I am a beauty merchant , a trader in song , and I pursue utility , dear Madge . 
O that all your song transmutations were as successful ! she laughed . 
Those two beautiful sonnets that you transmuted into the cow that was accounted the worst milker in the township . 
She was beautiful he began , But she didn't give milk , Madge interrupted . 
But she WAS beautiful , now , wasn't she ? he insisted . 
And here's where beauty and utility fall out , was her reply . 
His braced fore paws dislodged a pebble , and with sharp pricked ears and peering eyes he watched the fall of the pebble till it struck at their feet . 
Then he transferred his gaze and with open mouth laughed down at them . 
You Wolf , you ! and You blessed Wolf ! the man and woman called out to him . 
The ears flattened back and down at the sound , and the head seemed to snuggle under the caress of an invisible hand . 
They watched him scramble backward into the thicket , then proceeded on their way . 
Several minutes later , rounding a turn in the trail where the descent was less precipitous , he joined them in the midst of a miniature avalanche of pebbles and loose soil . 
In build and coat and brush he was a huge timber wolf but the lie was given to his wolfhood by his color and marking . 
There the dog unmistakably advertised itself . 
No wolf was ever colored like him . 
He was brown , deep brown , red brown , an orgy of browns . 
Back and shoulders were a warm brown that paled on the sides and underneath to a yellow that was dingy because of the brown that lingered in it . 
The man and woman loved the dog very much perhaps this was because it had been such a task to win his love . 
It had been no easy matter when he first drifted in mysteriously out of nowhere to their little mountain cottage . 
A most unsociable dog he proved to be , resenting all their advances , refusing to let them lay hands on him , menacing them with bared fangs and bristling hair . 
Nevertheless he remained , sleeping and resting by the spring , and eating the food they gave him after they set it down at a safe distance and retreated . 
His wretched physical condition explained why he lingered and when he had recuperated , after several days' sojourn , he disappeared . 
Now Irvine was a man of impulse , a poet . 
He got off the train at the next station , bought a piece of meat at a butcher shop , and captured the vagrant on the outskirts of the town . 
The return trip was made in the baggage car , and so Wolf came a second time to the mountain cottage . 
Here he was tied up for a week and made love to by the man and woman . 
But it was very circumspect love making . 
Remote and alien as a traveller from another planet , he snarled down their soft spoken love words . 
In all the time they had him he was never known to bark . 
To win him became a problem . 
He had a metal plate made , on which was stamped RETURN TO WALT IRVINE , GLEN ELLEN , SONOMA COUNTY , CALIFORNIA . 
This was riveted to a collar and strapped about the dog's neck . 
Then he was turned loose , and promptly he disappeared . 
A day later came a telegram from Mendocino County . 
In twenty hours he had made over a hundred miles to the north , and was still going when captured . 
He came back by Wells Fargo Express , was tied up three days , and was loosed on the fourth and lost . 
This time he gained southern Oregon before he was caught and returned . 
Always , as soon as he received his liberty , he fled away , and always he fled north . 
He was possessed of an obsession that drove him north . 
The homing instinct , Irvine called it , after he had expended the selling price of a sonnet in getting the animal back from northern Oregon . 
Another time the brown wanderer succeeded in traversing half the length of California , all of Oregon , and most of Washington , before he was picked up and returned Collect . 
A remarkable thing was the speed with which he travelled . 
Fed up and rested , as soon as he was loosed he devoted all his energy to getting over the ground . 
On the first day's run he was known to cover as high as a hundred and fifty miles , and after that he would average a hundred miles a day until caught . 
Even after that , a long time elapsed before the man and woman succeeded in patting him . 
It was a great victory , for they alone were allowed to put hands on him . 
He was fastidiously exclusive , and no guest at the cottage ever succeeded in making up to him . 
His history began with Walt and Madge . 
He had come up from the south , but never a clew did they get of the owner from whom he had evidently fled . 
Mrs. Johnson , their nearest neighbor and the one who supplied them with milk , proclaimed him a Klondike dog . 
Her brother was burrowing for frozen pay streaks in that far country , and so she constituted herself an authority on the subject . 
But they did not dispute her . 
There were the tips of Wolf's ears , obviously so severely frozen at some time that they would never quite heal again . 
Besides , he looked like the photographs of the Alaskan dogs they saw published in magazines and newspapers . 
what his northland life had been . 
No provocation was great enough to draw from him that canine cry . 
Long discussion they had , during the time of winning him , as to whose dog he was . 
Each claimed him , and each proclaimed loudly any expression of affection made by him . 
But the man had the better of it at first , chiefly because he was a man . 
It was patent that Wolf had had no experience with women . 
He did not understand women . 
Madge's skirts were something he never quite accepted . 
The swish of them was enough to set him a bristle with suspicion , and on a windy day she could not approach him at all . 
It was because of these things that she bade fair to overcome the handicap of her garments . 
It's about time I heard from those triolets , Walt said , after a silence of five minutes , during which they had swung steadily down the trail . 
And into beautiful milk from Mrs. Johnson's beautiful cow , Madge added . 
To morrow's the first of the month , you know . 
Walt scowled unconsciously then his face brightened , and he clapped his hand to his breast pocket . 
I have here a nice beautiful new cow , the best milker in California . 
When did you write it ? she demanded eagerly . 
Then , reproachfully , And you never showed it to me . 
A tiny stream flowed out of a dense fern brake , slipped down a mossy lipped stone , and ran across the path at their feet . 
From the valley arose the mellow song of meadow larks , while about them , in and out , through sunshine and shadow , fluttered great yellow butterflies . 
Up from below came another sound that broke in upon Walt reading softly from his manuscript . 
It was a crunching of heavy feet , punctuated now and again by the clattering of a displaced stone . 
As Walt finished and looked to his wife for approval , a man came into view around the turn of the trail . 
He was bare headed and sweaty . 
With a handkerchief in one hand he mopped his face , while in the other hand he carried a new hat and a wilted starched collar which he had removed from his neck . 
He was a well built man , and his muscles seemed on the point of bursting out of the painfully new and ready made black clothes he wore . 
Warm day , Walt greeted him . 
Walt believed in country democracy , and never missed an opportunity to practise it . 
The man paused and nodded . 
I guess I ain't used much to the warm , he vouchsafed half apologetically . 
I'm more accustomed to zero weather . 
You don't find any of that in this country , Walt laughed . 
Should say not , the man answered . 
An' I ain't here a lookin' for it neither . 
I'm tryin' to find my sister . 
Mebbe you know where she lives . 
Her name's Johnson , Mrs. William Johnson . 
You're not her Klondike brother ! Madge cried , her eyes bright with interest , about whom we've heard so much ? Yes'm , that's me , he answered modestly . 
My name's Miller , Skiff Miller . 
I just thought I'd s'prise her . 
You are on the right track then . 
Only you've come by the foot path . 
Madge stood up to direct him , pointing up the canyon a quarter of a mile . 
You see that blasted redwood ? Take the little trail turning off to the right . 
It's the short cut to her house . 
Yes'm , thank you , ma'am , he said . 
He made tentative efforts to go , but seemed awkwardly rooted to the spot . 
We'd like to hear you tell about the Klondike , Madge said . 
Then he caught himself up and added I ain't stoppin' long . 
I got to be pullin' north again . 
I go out on to night's train . 
You see , I've got a mail contract with the government . 
When Madge had said that it was too bad , he made another futile effort to go . 
But he could not take his eyes from her face . 
He forgot his embarrassment in his admiration , and it was her turn to flush and feel uncomfortable . 
The pretty woman before him passed out of his field of vision . 
He had eyes only for the dog , and a great wonder came into his face . 
Well , I'll be damned ! he enunciated slowly and solemnly . 
He sat down ponderingly on the log , leaving Madge standing . 
At the sound of his voice , Wolf's ears had flattened down , then his mouth had opened in a laugh . 
He trotted slowly up to the stranger and first smelled his hands , then licked them with his tongue . 
We're surprised , too , she answered lightly . 
We never saw Wolf make up to a stranger before . 
Is that what you call him Wolf ? the man asked . 
But I can't understand his friendliness toward you unless it's because you're from the Klondike . 
He's a Klondike dog , you know . 
Yes'm , Miller said absently . 
He lifted one of Wolf's fore legs and examined the foot pads , pressing them and denting them with his thumb . 
Kind of SOFT , he remarked . 
He ain't been on trail for a long time . 
I say , Walt broke in , it is remarkable the way he lets you handle him . 
It was an explosive bark , brief and joyous , but a bark . 
That's a new one on me , Skiff Miller remarked . 
Walt and Madge stared at each other . 
It's the first time he ever barked , Madge said . 
First time I ever heard him , too , Miller volunteered . 
The man was evidently a humorist . 
Of course , she said , since you have only seen him for five minutes . 
Skiff Miller looked at her sharply , seeking in her face the guile her words had led him to suspect . 
I thought you understood , he said slowly . 
I thought you'd tumbled to it from his makin' up to me . 
Oh , Walt ! was Madge's instinctive cry to her husband . 
Walt was on the defensive at once . 
How do you know he's your dog ? he demanded . 
Because he is , was the reply . 
Mere assertion , Walt said sharply . 
I bred 'm an' raised 'm , an' I guess I ought to know . 
I'll prove it to you . 
Skiff Miller turned to the dog . 
Brown ! His voice rang out sharply , and at the sound the dog's ears flattened down as to a caress . 
Gee ! The dog made a swinging turn to the right . 
Now mush on ! And the dog ceased his swing abruptly and started straight ahead , halting obediently at command . 
I can do it with whistles , Skiff Miller said proudly . 
He was my lead dog . 
But you are not going to take him away with you ? Madge asked tremulously . 
Back into that awful Klondike world of suffering ? He nodded and added Oh , it ain't so bad as all that . 
I nearly ate him once , over on Little Fish River , Miller volunteered grimly . 
If I hadn't got a moose that day was all that saved 'm . 
I'd have died first ! Madge cried . 
Things is different down here , Miller explained . 
You don't have to eat dogs . 
You think different just about the time you're all in . 
You've never ben all in , so you don't know anything about it . 
That's the very point , she argued warmly . 
Dogs are not eaten in California . 
Why not leave him here ? He is happy . 
He'll never want for food you know that . 
He'll never suffer from cold and hardship . 
Here all is softness and gentleness . 
Neither the human nor nature is savage . 
He will never know a whip lash again . 
And as for the weather why , it never snows here . 
But it's all fired hot in summer , beggin' your pardon , Skiff Miller laughed . 
But you do not answer , Madge continued passionately . 
What have you to offer him in that northland life ? Grub , when I've got it , and that's most of the time , came the answer . 
And the rest of the time ? No grub . 
And the work ? Yes , plenty of work , Miller blurted out impatiently . 
Work without end , an' famine , an' frost , an all the rest of the miseries that's what he'll get when he comes with me . 
He is used to it . 
He was born to it an' brought up to it . 
An' you don't know anything about it . 
You don't know what you're talking about . 
That's where the dog belongs , and that's where he'll be happiest . 
The dog doesn't go , Walt announced in a determined voice . 
So there is no need of further discussion . 
What's that ? Skiff Miller demanded , his brows lowering and an obstinate flush of blood reddening his forehead . 
I said the dog doesn't go , and that settles it . 
I don't believe he's your dog . 
You may have seen him sometime . 
You may even sometime have driven him for his owner . 
But his obeying the ordinary driving commands of the Alaskan trail is no demonstration that he is yours . 
Any dog in Alaska would obey you as he obeyed . 
Besides , he is undoubtedly a valuable dog , as dogs go in Alaska , and that is sufficient explanation of your desire to get possession of him . 
Anyway , you've got to prove property . 
The Klondiker's face took on a contemptuous expression as he said finally , I reckon there's nothin' in sight to prevent me takin' the dog right here an' now . 
Walt's face reddened , and the striking muscles of his arms and shoulders seemed to stiffen and grow tense . 
His wife fluttered apprehensively into the breach . 
Maybe Mr. Miller is right , she said . 
I am afraid that he is . 
Wolf does seem to know him , and certainly he answers to the name of 'Brown . 
He made friends with him instantly , and you know that's something he never did with anybody before . 
Besides , look at the way he barked . 
He was just bursting with joy Joy over what ? Without doubt at finding Mr. Miller . 
Walt's striking muscles relaxed , and his shoulders seemed to droop with hopelessness . 
I guess you're right , Madge , he said . 
Wolf isn't Wolf , but Brown , and he must belong to Mr. Miller . 
Perhaps Mr. Miller will sell him , she suggested . 
Skiff Miller shook his head , no longer belligerent , but kindly , quick to be generous in response to generousness . 
I had five dogs , he said , casting about for the easiest way to temper his refusal . 
They was the crack team of Alaska . 
In I refused five thousand dollars for the bunch . 
Dogs was high , then , anyway but that wasn't what made the fancy price . 
It was the team itself . 
Brown was the best in the team . 
That winter I refused twelve hundred for 'm . 
I didn't sell 'm then , an' I ain't a sellin' 'm now . 
Besides , I think a mighty lot of that dog . 
I've ben lookin' for 'm for three years . 
It made me fair sick when I found he'd ben stole not the value of him , but the well , I liked 'm like hell , that's all , beggin' your pardon . 
I couldn't believe my eyes when I seen 'm just now . 
I thought I was dreamin' . 
It was too good to be true . 
Why , I was his wet nurse . 
I put 'm to bed , snug every night . 
His mother died , and I brought 'm up on condensed milk at two dollars a can when I couldn't afford it in my own coffee . 
He never knew any mother but me . 
That very finger , he managed to articulate , as though it somehow clinched the proof of ownership and the bond of affection . 
He was still gazing at his extended finger when Madge began to speak . 
But the dog , she said . 
You haven't considered the dog . 
Have you thought about him ? she asked . 
Don't know what you're drivin' at , was the response . 
Maybe the dog has some choice in the matter , Madge went on . 
Maybe he has his likes and desires . 
You have not considered him . 
You give him no choice . 
It has never entered your mind that possibly he might prefer California to Alaska . 
You consider only what you like . 
You do with him as you would with a sack of potatoes or a bale of hay . 
This was a new way of looking at it , and Miller was visibly impressed as he debated it in his mind . 
Madge took advantage of his indecision . 
If you really love him , what would be happiness to him would be your happiness also , she urged . 
Skiff Miller continued to debate with himself , and Madge stole a glance of exultation to her husband , who looked back warm approval . 
What do you think ? the Klondiker suddenly demanded . 
It was her turn to be puzzled . 
What do you mean ? she asked . 
D'ye think he'd sooner stay in California ? She nodded her head with positiveness . 
I am sure of it . 
Skiff Miller again debated with himself , though this time aloud , at the same time running his gaze in a judicial way over the mooted animal . 
He was a good worker . 
He's done a heap of work for me . 
He never loafed on me , an' he was a joe dandy at hammerin' a raw team into shape . 
He's got a head on him . 
He can do everything but talk . 
He knows what you say to him . 
He knows we're talkin' about him . 
An' there's a lot of work in 'm yet . 
He's good for years to come . 
An' I do like him . 
I like him like hell . 
Once or twice after that Skiff Miller opened his mouth and closed it again without speaking . 
Finally he said I'll tell you what I'll do . 
Your remarks , ma'am , has some weight in them . 
The dog's worked hard , and maybe he's earned a soft berth an' has got a right to choose . 
Anyway , we'll leave it up to him . 
Whatever he says , goes . 
You people stay right here settin' down . 
I'll say good by and walk off casual like . 
If he wants to stay , he can stay . 
If he wants to come with me , let 'm come . 
I won't call 'm to come an' don't you call 'm to come back . 
He looked with sudden suspicion at Madge , and added , Only you must play fair . 
No persuadin' after my back is turned . 
We'll play fair , Madge began , but Skiff Miller broke in on her assurances . 
I know the ways of women , he announced . 
When their hearts is touched they're likely to stack the cards , look at the bottom of the deck , an' lie like the devil beggin' your pardon , ma'am . 
I'm only discoursin' about women in general . 
I don't know how to thank you , Madge quavered . 
I don't see as you've got any call to thank me , he replied . 
Now you won't mind if I go away slow ? It's no more'n fair , seein' I'll be out of sight inside a hundred yards . 
Madge agreed , and added , And I promise you faithfully that we won't do anything to influence him . 
Well , then , I might as well be gettin' along , Skiff Miller said in the ordinary tones of one departing . 
At this change in his voice , Wolf lifted his head quickly , and still more quickly got to his feet when the man and woman shook hands . 
He sprang up on his hind legs , resting his fore paws on her hip and at the same time licking Skiff Miller's hand . 
When the latter shook hands with Walt , Wolf repeated his act , resting his weight on Walt and licking both men's hands . 
It ain't no picnic , I can tell you that , were the Klondiker's last words , as he turned and went slowly up the trail . 
For the distance of twenty feet Wolf watched him go , himself all eagerness and expectancy , as though waiting for the man to turn and retrace his steps . 
Then , with a quick low whine , Wolf sprang after him , overtook him , caught his hand between his teeth with reluctant tenderness , and strove gently to make him pause . 
Failing in this , Wolf raced back to where Walt Irvine sat , catching his coat sleeve in his teeth and trying vainly to drag him after the retreating man . 
Wolf's perturbation began to wax . 
He wanted to be in two places at the same time , with the old master and the new , and steadily the distance between them was increasing . 
He sat down abruptly on his haunches , thrusting his nose upward , the mouth opening and closing with jerking movements , each time opening wider . 
These jerking movements were in unison with the recurrent spasms that attacked the throat , each spasm severer and more intense than the preceding one . 
All this was the nervous and muscular preliminary to howling . 
Suddenly Wolf turned his head , and over his shoulder just as steadily regarded Walt . 
Not a word nor a sign did the dog receive , no suggestion and no clew as to what his conduct should be . 
A glance ahead to where the old master was nearing the curve of the trail excited him again . 
He sprang to his feet with a whine , and then , struck by a new idea , turned his attention to Madge . 
Hitherto he had ignored her , but now , both masters failing him , she alone was left . 
He went over to her and snuggled his head in her lap , nudging her arm with his nose an old trick of his when begging for favors . 
This , too , he soon abandoned . 
He was depressed by the coldness of these humans who had never been cold before . 
No response could he draw from them , no help could he get . 
They did not consider him . 
He turned and silently gazed after the old master . 
Skiff Miller was rounding the curve . 
In a moment he would be gone from view . 
Yet he never turned his head , plodding straight onward , slowly and methodically , as though possessed of no interest in what was occurring behind his back . 
And in this fashion he went out of view . 
Wolf waited for him to reappear . 
He waited a long minute , silently , quietly , without movement , as though turned to stone withal stone quick with eagerness and desire . 
He barked once , and waited . 
Then he turned and trotted back to Walt Irvine . 
He sniffed his hand and dropped down heavily at his feet , watching the trail where it curved emptily from view . 
The tiny stream slipping down the mossy lipped stone seemed suddenly to increase the volume of its gurgling noise . 
Save for the meadow larks , there was no other sound . 
The great yellow butterflies drifted silently through the sunshine and lost themselves in the drowsy shadows . 
Madge gazed triumphantly at her husband . 
A few minutes later Wolf got upon his feet . 
Decision and deliberation marked his movements . 
He did not glance at the man and woman . 
His eyes were fixed up the trail . 
He had made up his mind . 
And they knew , so far as they were concerned , that the ordeal had just begun . 
He broke into a trot , and Madge's lips pursed , forming an avenue for the caressing sound that it was the will of her to send forth . 
But the caressing sound was not made . 
She was impelled to look at her husband , and she saw the sternness with which he watched her . 
The pursed lips relaxed , and she sighed inaudibly . 
Wolf's trot broke into a run . 
Wider and wider were the leaps he made . 
Not once did he turn his head , his wolf's brush standing out straight behind him . 
He cut sharply across the curve of the trail and was gone . 
THE SUN DOG TRAIL SITKA CHARLEY smoked his pipe and gazed thoughtfully at the POLICE GAZETTE illustration on the wall . 
For half an hour he had been steadily regarding it , and for half an hour I had been slyly watching him . 
Something was going on in that mind of his , and , whatever it was , I knew it was well worth knowing . 
As he phrased it himself , he had come into the warm , sat among us , by our fires , and become one of us . 
We had struck this deserted cabin after a hard day on trail . 
He had studied them intently , ranging from one to another and back again , and I could see that there was uncertainty in his mind , and bepuzzlement . 
Well ? I finally broke the silence . 
He took the pipe from his mouth and said simply , I do not understand . 
He smoked on again , and again removed the pipe , using it to point at the POLICE GAZETTE illustration . 
That picture what does it mean ? I do not understand . 
I looked at the picture . 
A man , with a preposterously wicked face , his right hand pressed dramatically to his heart , was falling backward to the floor . 
Confronting him , with a face that was a composite of destroying angel and Adonis , was a man holding a smoking revolver . 
One man is killing the other man , I said , aware of a distinct bepuzzlement of my own and of failure to explain . 
Why ? asked Sitka Charley . 
I do not know , I confessed . 
That picture is all end , he said . 
It is life , I said . 
Life has beginning , he objected . 
I was silenced for the moment , while his eyes wandered on to an adjoining decoration , a photographic reproduction of somebody's Leda and the Swan . 
That picture , he said , has no beginning . 
I do not understand pictures . 
Look at that picture , I commanded , pointing to a third decoration . 
Tell me what it means to you . 
He studied it for several minutes . 
The little girl is sick , he said finally . 
That is the doctor looking at her . 
They have been up all night see , the oil is low in the lamp , the first morning light is coming in at the window . 
It is a great sickness maybe she will die , that is why the doctor looks so hard . 
It is a great sickness , because the mother's head is on the table and she is crying . 
How do you know she is crying ? I interrupted . 
You cannot see her face . 
Sitka Charley looked at me in swift surprise , then back at the picture . 
It was evident that he had not reasoned the impression . 
Perhaps she is asleep , he repeated . 
No , she is not asleep . 
The shoulders show that she is not asleep . 
I have seen the shoulders of a woman who cried . 
It is a very great sickness . 
And now you understand the picture , I cried . 
He shook his head , and asked , The little girl does it die ? It was my turn for silence . 
Does it die ? he reiterated . 
You are a painter man . 
No , I do not know , I confessed . 
It is not life , he delivered himself dogmatically . 
In life little girl die or get well . 
No , I do not understand pictures . 
It was his desire to understand all things that white men understand , and here , in this matter , he failed . 
I felt , also , that there was challenge in his attitude . 
He was bent upon compelling me to show him the wisdom of pictures . 
Besides , he had remarkable powers of visualization . 
I had long since learned this . 
Pictures are bits of life , I said . 
We paint life as we see it . 
For instance , Charley , you are coming along the trail . 
You look through the window for one second , or for two seconds , you see something , and you go on your way . 
You saw maybe a man writing a letter . 
You saw something without beginning or end . 
Yet it was a bit of life you saw . 
It is like a picture in your memory . 
The window is the frame of the picture . 
I could see that he was interested , and I knew that as I spoke he had looked through the window and seen the man writing the letter . 
There is a picture you have painted that I understand , he said . 
It is a true picture . 
It is in your cabin at Dawson . 
It is a faro table . 
It is a large game . 
Also , I was very proud of that particular piece of work . 
I had named it The Last Turn , and I believed it to be one of the best things I had ever done . 
There are no chips on the table , Sitka Charley explained . 
The men are playing with markers . 
That means the roof is the limit . 
One man play yellow markers maybe one yellow marker worth one thousand dollars , maybe two thousand dollars . 
One man play red markers . 
Maybe they are worth five hundred dollars , maybe one thousand dollars . 
It is a very big game . 
Everybody play very high , up to the roof . 
How do I know ? You make the dealer with blood little bit warm in face . 
The lookout , you make him lean forward in his chair . 
How do you know it is the last turn ? I asked . 
The king is coppered , the seven is played open , he answered . 
Nobody bet on other cards . 
Everybody play king to lose , seven to win . 
Maybe bank lose twenty thousand dollars , maybe bank win . 
Yes , that picture I understand . 
Yet you do not know the end ! I cried triumphantly . 
It is the last turn , but the cards are not yet turned . 
In the picture they will never be turned . 
Nobody will ever know who wins nor who loses . 
And the men will sit there and never talk , he said , wonder and awe growing in his face . 
And the lookout will lean forward , and the blood will be warm in the face of the dealer . 
It is a strange thing . 
Always will they sit there , always and the cards will never be turned . 
It is a picture , I said . 
You have seen things like it yourself . 
He looked at me and pondered , then said , very slowly No , as you say , there is no end to it . 
Nobody will ever know the end . 
Yet is it a true thing . 
For a long time he smoked on in silence , weighing the pictorial wisdom of the white man and verifying it by the facts of life . 
He nodded his head several times , and grunted once or twice . 
Then he knocked the ashes from his pipe , carefully refilled it , and after a thoughtful pause , lighted it again . 
Then have I , too , seen many pictures of life , he began pictures not painted , but seen with the eyes . 
I have looked at them like through the window at the man writing the letter . 
I have seen many pieces of life , without beginning , without end , without understanding . 
With a sudden change of position he turned his eyes full upon me and regarded me thoughtfully . 
Look you , he said you are a painter man . 
It is a large canvas , I murmured . 
But he ignored me , for the picture he had in mind was before his eyes and he was seeing it . 
There are many names for this picture , he said . 
But in the picture there are many sun dogs , and it comes into my mind to call it 'The Sun Dog Trail . 
It was a long time ago , seven years ago , the fall of , when I saw the woman first time . 
At Lake Linderman I had one canoe , very good Peterborough canoe . 
I came over Chilcoot Pass with two thousand letters for Dawson . 
Everybody rush to Klondike at that time . 
Many people chop down trees and make boats . 
Last water , snow in the air , snow on the ground , ice on the lake , on the river ice in the eddies . 
Every day more snow , more ice . 
Everybody want to go boat . 
Everybody say , 'Charley , two hundred dollars you take me in canoe , 'Charley , three hundred dollars , 'Charley , four hundred dollars . 
I say no , all the time I say no . 
In morning I get to Lake Linderman . 
I walk all night and am much tired . 
I cook breakfast , I eat , then I sleep on the beach three hours . 
There is wind , much wind that blows fair . 
Also , there is a woman who sits in the snow alongside . 
She is white woman , she is young , very pretty , maybe she is twenty years old , maybe twenty five years old . 
She is no dance woman . 
I see that right away . 
She is good woman , and she is very tired . 
'You are Sitka Charley , she says . 
I get up quick and roll blankets so snow does not get inside . 
'I go to Dawson , she says . 
'I go in your canoe how much ? I do not want anybody in my canoe . 
I do not like to say no . 
So I say , 'One thousand dollars . 
Just for fun I say it , so woman cannot come with me , much better than say no . 
She look at me very hard , then she says , 'When you start ? I say right away . 
Then she says all right , she will give me one thousand dollars . 
What can I say ? I do not want the woman , yet have I given my word that for one thousand dollars she can come . 
Maybe she make fun , too , so I say , 'Let me see thousand dollars . 
I look at money , I look at her . 
What can I say ? I say , 'No , my canoe very small . 
There is no room for outfit . 
She says , 'I am great traveller . 
She kick one small pack in the snow . 
It is two fur robes , canvas outside , some woman's clothes inside . 
She take it away from me . 
She says , 'Come , let us start . 
She carries pack into canoe . 
What can I say ? I put my blankets into canoe . 
And that is the way I saw the woman first time . 
I put up small sail . 
The canoe went very fast , it flew like a bird over the high waves . 
The woman was much afraid . 
'What for you come Klondike much afraid ? I ask . 
She laugh at me , a hard laugh , but she is still much afraid . 
Also is she very tired . 
I run canoe through rapids to Lake Bennett . 
Water very bad , and woman cry out because she is afraid . 
We go down Lake Bennett , snow , ice , wind like a gale , but woman is very tired and go to sleep . 
That night we make camp at Windy Arm . 
Woman sit by fire and eat supper . 
The eyes are large and brown , sometimes warm like a candle behind a curtain , sometimes very hard and bright like broken ice when sun shines upon it . 
When she smile how can I say ? when she smile I know white man like to kiss her , just like that , when she smile . 
She never do hard work . 
Her hands are soft , like baby's hand . 
She is soft all over , like baby . 
She is not thin , but round like baby her arm , her leg , her muscles , all soft and round like baby . 
It is very good to see . 
Why does she come into Klondike , all alone , with plenty of money ? I do not know . 
Next day I ask her . 
She laugh and says 'Sitka Charley , that is none of your business . 
I give you one thousand dollars take me to Dawson . 
That only is your business . 
Next day after that I ask her what is her name . 
She laugh , then she says , 'Mary Jones , that is my name . 
I do not know her name , but I know all the time that Mary Jones is not her name . 
It is very cold in canoe , and because of cold sometimes she not feel good . 
Sometimes she feel good and she sing . 
She does not see Sitka Charley , nor the ice , nor the snow . 
Very often she is like that , thinking far away . 
Sometimes , when she is thinking far away , her face is not good to see . 
It looks like a face that is angry , like the face of one man when he want to kill another man . 
Last day to Dawson very bad . 
Shore ice in all the eddies , mush ice in the stream . 
The canoe freeze to ice . 
I cannot get to shore . 
All the time we go down Yukon in the ice . 
That night there is much noise of ice . 
Then ice stop , canoe stop , everything stop . 
'Let us go to shore , the woman says . 
I say no , better wait . 
By and by , everything start down stream again . 
At eleven o'clock at night , everything stop . 
At one o'clock everything start again . 
At three o'clock everything stop . 
Canoe is smashed like eggshell , but is on top of ice and cannot sink . 
By and by morning come . 
There is no more snow . 
It is the freeze up , and there is Dawson . 
Canoe smash and stop right at Dawson . 
Sitka Charley has come in with two thousand letters on very last water . 
The woman rent a cabin on the hill , and for one week I see her no more . 
Then , one day , she come to me . 
'Charley , she says , 'how do you like to work for me ? You drive dogs , make camp , travel with me . 
I say that I make too much money carrying letters . 
She says , 'Charley , I will pay you more money . 
I tell her that pick and shovel man get fifteen dollars a day in the mines . 
She says , 'That is four hundred and fifty dollars a month . 
And I say , 'Sitka Charley is no pick and shovel man . 
Then she says , 'I understand , Charley . 
I will give you seven hundred and fifty dollars each month . 
It is a good price , and I go to work for her . 
I buy for her dogs and sled . 
All the time she look for something , I do not know what . 
'What thing you look for ? I ask . 
'You look for gold ? I ask . 
Then she says , 'That is none of your business , Charley . 
And after that I never ask any more . 
She has a small revolver which she carries in her belt . 
Sometimes , on trail , she makes practice with revolver . 
'What for you laugh , Charley ? she ask . 
'What for you play with that ? I say . 
It is for a child , a little plaything . 
When we get back to Dawson she ask me to buy good revolver for her . 
It is very heavy , but she carry it in her belt all the time . 
At Dawson comes the man . 
Which way he come I do not know . 
Only do I know he is CHECHA QUO what you call tenderfoot . 
His hands are soft , just like hers . 
He never do hard work . 
He is soft all over . 
At first I think maybe he is her husband . 
But he is too young . 
Also , they make two beds at night . 
He is maybe twenty years old . 
His eyes blue , his hair yellow , he has a little mustache which is yellow . 
His name is John Jones . 
Maybe he is her brother . 
I ask questions no more . 
Only I think his name not John Jones . 
Other people call him Mr. Girvan . 
I do not think that is his name . 
I do not think her name is Miss Girvan , which other people call her . 
I think nobody know their names . 
One night I am asleep at Dawson . 
He says , 'Get the dogs ready we start . 
No more do I ask questions , so I get the dogs ready and we start . 
We go down the Yukon . 
It is night time , it is November , and it is very cold sixty five below . 
They cry under their breaths to themselves . 
By and by I say better we stop and make camp . 
But they say that they will go on . 
Three times I say better to make camp and rest , but each time they say they will go on . 
After that I say nothing . 
All the time , day after day , is it that way . 
They get stiff and sore . 
They do not understand moccasins , and their feet hurt very much . 
All the time do they go on , and on . 
Why do they go on ? I do not know . 
Only do they go on . 
What are they after ? I do not know . 
They are not after gold . 
Besides , they spend plenty of money . 
But I ask questions no more . 
I , too , go on and on , because I am strong on the trail and because I am greatly paid . 
That for which they look is not there . 
I think now that we will rest , and rest the dogs . 
But we do not rest , not for one day do we rest . 
'Come , says the woman to the man , 'let us go on . 
We cross the divide to the west and swing down into the Tanana Country . 
There are new diggings there . 
But that for which they look is not there , and we take the back trail to Circle City . 
It is a hard journey . 
One morning it is seventy below zero . 
'Better that we don't travel to day , I say , 'else will the frost be unwarmed in the breathing and bite all the edges of our lungs . 
After that we will have bad cough , and maybe next spring will come pneumonia . 
But they are CHECHA QUO . 
They do not understand the trail . 
They are like dead people they are so tired , but they say , 'Let us go on . 
The frost bites their lungs , and they get the dry cough . 
They cough till the tears run down their cheeks . 
When bacon is frying they must run away from the fire and cough half an hour in the snow . 
They freeze their cheeks a little bit , so that the skin turns black and is very sore . 
Also , the man freezes his thumb till the end is like to come off , and he must wear a large thumb on his mitten to keep it warm . 
We limp into Circle City , and even I , Sitka Charley , am tired . 
I dance , drink , make a good time , for to morrow is Christmas Day and we will rest . 
It is five o'clock in the morning Christmas morning . 
I am two hours asleep . 
The man stand by my bed . 
'Come , Charley , he says , 'harness the dogs . 
Have I not said that I ask questions no more ? They pay me seven hundred and fifty dollars each month . 
If they say , 'Charley , come , let us start for hell , I will harness the dogs , and snap the whip , and start for hell . 
So I harness the dogs , and we start down the Yukon . 
Where do we go ? They do not say . 
Only do they say , 'On ! on ! We will go on ! They are very weary . 
They have travelled many hundreds of miles , and they do not understand the way of the trail . 
Besides , their cough is very bad the dry cough that makes strong men swear and weak men cry . 
Every day they go on . 
Never do they rest the dogs . 
Always do they buy new dogs . 
At every camp , at every post , at every Indian village , do they cut out the tired dogs and put in fresh dogs . 
They have much money , money without end , and like water they spend it . 
They are crazy ? Sometimes I think so , for there is a devil in them that drives them on and on , always on . 
What is it that they try to find ? It is not gold . 
Never do they dig in the ground . 
I think a long time . 
Then I think it is a man they try to find . 
But what man ? Never do we see the man . 
Yet are they like wolves on the trail of the kill . 
But they are funny wolves , soft wolves , baby wolves who do not understand the way of the trail . 
They cry aloud in their sleep at night . 
In their sleep they moan and groan with the pain of their weariness . 
And in the day , as they stagger along the trail , they cry under their breaths . 
January has come and nearly gone . 
The days are very short . 
At nine o'clock comes daylight . 
At three o'clock comes night . 
And even I , Sitka Charley , am tired . 
Will we go on forever this way without end ? I do not know . 
But always do I look along the trail for that which they try to find . 
There are few people on the trail . 
Sometimes we travel one hundred miles and never see a sign of life . 
Sometimes it snows , and we are like wandering ghosts . 
Sometimes it is clear , and at midday the sun looks at us for a moment over the hills to the south . 
The northern lights flame in the sky , and the sun dogs dance , and the air is filled with frost dust . 
I am Sitka Charley , a strong man . 
I was born on the trail , and all my days have I lived on the trail . 
And yet have these two baby wolves made me very tired . 
I am lean , like a starved cat , and I am glad of my bed at night , and in the morning am I greatly weary . 
Yet ever are we hitting the trail in the dark before daylight , and still on the trail does the dark after nightfall find us . 
These two baby wolves ! If I am lean like a starved cat , they are lean like cats that have never eaten and have died . 
Their eyes are sunk deep in their heads , bright sometimes as with fever , dim and cloudy sometimes like the eyes of the dead . 
Their cheeks are hollow like caves in a cliff . 
Also are their cheeks black and raw from many freezings . 
Sometimes it is the woman in the morning who says , 'I cannot get up . 
And it is the man who stands beside her and says , 'Come , let us go on . 
And sometimes it is the man who cannot get up , and the woman says , 'Come , let us go on . 
But the one thing they do , and always do , is to go on . 
Always do they go on . 
Sometimes , at the trading posts , the man and woman get letters . 
I do not know what is in the letters . 
But it is the scent that they follow , these letters themselves are the scent . 
One time an Indian gives them a letter . 
I talk with him privately . 
He says it is a man with one eye who gives him the letter , a man who travels fast down the Yukon . 
But I know that the baby wolves are after the man with the one eye . 
It is February , and we have travelled fifteen hundred miles . 
We are getting near Bering Sea , and there are storms and blizzards . 
But I say we must buy grub , and they say we must travel light and fast . 
Also , they say that we can get grub at Charley McKeon's cabin . 
Then do I know that they take the big cut off , for it is there that Charley McKeon lives where the Black Rock stands by the trail . 
Before we start , I talk maybe two minutes with the priest at Anvig . 
Yes , there is a man with one eye who has gone by and who travels fast . 
And I know that for which they look is the man with the one eye . 
We leave Anvig with little grub , and travel light and fast . 
There are three fresh dogs bought in Anvig , and we travel very fast . 
The man and woman are like mad . 
We start earlier in the morning , we travel later at night . 
I look sometimes to see them die , these two baby wolves , but they will not die . 
They go on and on . 
When the dry cough take hold of them hard , they hold their hands against their stomach and double up in the snow , and cough , and cough , and cough . 
They cannot walk , they cannot talk . 
Even I , Sitka Charley , am greatly weary , and I think seven hundred and fifty dollars is a cheap price for the labor I do . 
We take the big cut off , and the trail is fresh . 
We have not much food and we cannot give them enough to eat , and they grow weak . 
Also , they must work hard . 
The woman has true sorrow for them , and often , because of them , the tears are in her eyes . 
But the devil in her that drives her on will not let her stop and rest the dogs . 
And then we come upon the man with the one eye . 
He is in the snow by the trail , and his leg is broken . 
Because of the leg he has made a poor camp , and has been lying on his blankets for three days and keeping a fire going . 
When we find him he is swearing . 
Never have I heard a man swear like that man . 
Now that they have found that for which they look , we will have rest . 
But the woman says , 'Let us start . 
Hurry ! I am surprised . 
But the man with the one eye says , 'Never mind me . 
You will get more grub at McKeon's cabin to morrow . 
Send McKeon back for me . 
But do you go on . 
Here is another wolf , an old wolf , and he , too , thinks but the one thought , to go on . 
So we give him our grub , which is not much , and we chop wood for his fire , and we take his strongest dogs and go on . 
We left the man with one eye there in the snow , and he died there in the snow , for McKeon never went back for him . 
And who that man was , and why he came to be there , I do not know . 
But I think he was greatly paid by the man and the woman , like me , to do their work for them . 
That day and that night we had nothing to eat , and all next day we travelled fast , and we were weak with hunger . 
Then we came to the Black Rock , which rose five hundred feet above the trail . 
It was at the end of the day . 
Darkness was coming , and we could not find the cabin of McKeon . 
We slept hungry , and in the morning looked for the cabin . 
It was not there , which was a strange thing , for everybody knew that McKeon lived in a cabin at Black Rock . 
We were near to the coast , where the wind blows hard and there is much snow . 
Everywhere there were small hills of snow where the wind had piled it up . 
I have a thought , and I dig in one and another of the hills of snow . 
Soon I find the walls of the cabin , and I dig down to the door . 
Maybe two or three weeks he is dead . 
A sickness had come upon him so that he could not leave the cabin . 
The wind and the snow had covered the cabin . 
He had eaten his grub and died . 
I looked for his cache , but there was no grub in it . 
'Let us go on , said the woman . 
Her eyes were hungry , and her hand was upon her heart , as with the hurt of something inside . 
She bent back and forth like a tree in the wind as she stood there . 
'Yes , let us go on , said the man . 
His voice was hollow , like the KLONK of an old raven , and he was hunger mad . 
His eyes were like live coals of fire , and as his body rocked to and fro , so rocked his soul inside . 
And I , too , said , 'Let us go on . 
Besides , we could only go on , for there was no grub . 
And we went on , giving no thought to the man with the one eye in the snow . 
There is little travel on the big cut off . 
Sometimes two or three months and nobody goes by . 
The snow had covered the trail , and there was no sign that men had ever come or gone that way . 
All day the wind blew and the snow fell , and all day we travelled , while our stomachs gnawed their desire and our bodies grew weaker with every step they took . 
Then the woman began to fall . 
I did not fall , but my feet were heavy and I caught my toes and stumbled many times . 
That night is the end of February . 
I kill three ptarmigan with the woman's revolver , and we are made somewhat strong again . 
But the dogs have nothing to eat . 
They try to eat their harness , which is of leather and walrus hide , and I must fight them off with a club and hang all the harness in a tree . 
And all night they howl and fight around that tree . 
But we do not mind . 
We sleep like dead people , and in the morning get up like dead people out of their graves and go on along the trail . 
That morning is the st of March , and on that morning I see the first sign of that after which the baby wolves are in search . 
It is clear weather , and cold . 
The sun stay longer in the sky , and there are sun dogs flashing on either side , and the air is bright with frost dust . 
The snow falls no more upon the trail , and I see the fresh sign of dogs and sled . 
There is one man with that outfit , and I see in the snow that he is not strong . 
He , too , has not enough to eat . 
The young wolves see the fresh sign , too , and they are much excited . 
All the time they say , 'Hurry ! Faster , Charley , faster ! We make hurry very slow . 
All the time the man and the woman fall down . 
When they try to ride on sled the dogs are too weak , and the dogs fall down . 
Besides , it is so cold that if they ride on the sled they will freeze . 
It is very easy for a hungry man to freeze . 
When the woman fall down , the man help her up . 
Sometimes the woman help the man up . 
So , by and by , I , too , fall down in the snow , and there is no one to help me up . 
I must get up by myself . 
And always do I get up by myself , and help them up , and make the dogs go on . 
That night I get one ptarmigan , and we are very hungry . 
And that night the man says to me , 'What time start to morrow , Charley ? It is like the voice of a ghost . 
I say , 'All the time you make start at five o'clock . 
'To morrow , he says , 'we will start at three o'clock . 
I laugh in great bitterness , and I say , 'You are dead man . 
And he says , 'To morrow we will start at three o'clock . 
And we start at three o'clock , for I am their man , and that which they say is to be done , I do . 
It is clear and cold , and there is no wind . 
When daylight comes we can see a long way off . 
And it is very quiet . 
We can hear no sound but the beat of our hearts , and in the silence that is a very loud sound . 
Sometimes , when I am walking in dreams this way , I have strange thoughts . 
Why does Sitka Charley live ? I ask myself . 
Also is it a true answer . 
And after that never again do I care for money . 
For that day a large wisdom came to me . 
In the morning we come upon the last night camp of the man who is before us . 
It is a poor camp , the kind a man makes who is hungry and without strength . 
On the snow there are pieces of blanket and of canvas , and I know what has happened . 
His dogs have eaten their harness , and he has made new harness out of his blankets . 
The man and woman stare hard at what is to be seen , and as I look at them my back feels the chill as of a cold wind against the skin . 
Their eyes are toil mad and hunger mad , and burn like fire deep in their heads . 
Their faces are like the faces of people who have died of hunger , and their cheeks are black with the dead flesh of many freezings . 
'Let us go on , says the man . 
But the woman coughs and falls in the snow . 
It is the dry cough where the frost has bitten the lungs . 
For a long time she coughs , then like a woman crawling out of her grave she crawls to her feet . 
The tears are ice upon her cheeks , and her breath makes a noise as it comes and goes , and she says , 'Let us go on . 
And we walk in dreams through the silence . 
We come to where we can see a long way over the snow , and that for which they look is before them . 
A mile away there are black spots upon the snow . 
My eyes are dim , and I must stiffen my soul to see . 
And I see one man with dogs and a sled . 
The baby wolves see , too . 
They can no longer talk , but they whisper , 'On , on . 
Let us hurry ! And they fall down , but they go on . 
The man who is before us , his blanket harness breaks often , and he must stop and mend it . 
Our harness is good , for I have hung it in trees each night . 
At eleven o'clock the man is half a mile away . 
At one o'clock he is a quarter of a mile away . 
We see him fall down many times in the snow . 
One of his dogs can no longer travel , and he cuts it out of the harness . 
But he does not kill it . 
I kill it with the axe as I go by , as I kill one of my dogs which loses its legs and can travel no more . 
Now we are three hundred yards away . 
Maybe in two , three hours we go one mile . 
All the time we fall down . 
We stand up and stagger two steps , maybe three steps , then we fall down again . 
And all the time I must help up the man and woman . 
Sometimes they rise to their knees and fall forward , maybe four or five times before they can get to their feet again and stagger two or three steps and fall . 
But always do they fall forward . 
Standing or kneeling , always do they fall forward , gaining on the trail each time by the length of their bodies . 
Sometimes they crawl on hands and knees like animals that live in the forest . 
We go like snails , like snails that are dying we go so slow . 
And yet we go faster than the man who is before us . 
For he , too , falls all the time , and there is no Sitka Charley to lift him up . 
Now he is two hundred yards away . 
After a long time he is one hundred yards away . 
It is a funny sight . 
I want to laugh out loud , Ha ! ha ! just like that , it is so funny . 
It is a race of dead men and dead dogs . 
It is like in a dream when you have a nightmare and run away very fast for your life and go very slow . 
The man who is with me is mad . 
All the world is mad , and I want to laugh , it is so funny . 
The stranger man who is before us leaves his dogs behind and goes on alone across the snow . 
After a long time we come to the dogs . 
Then we , too , leave our dogs and go on alone across the snow . 
The man and the woman are nearly gone , and they moan and groan and sob , but they go on . 
I , too , go on . 
I have but one thought . 
It is to come up to the stranger man . 
The stranger man is fifty yards away , all alone in the white snow . 
He falls and crawls , staggers , and falls and crawls again . 
He is like an animal that is sore wounded and trying to run from the hunter . 
By and by he crawls on hands and knees . 
He no longer stands up . 
And the man and woman no longer stand up . 
They , too , crawl after him on hands and knees . 
Sometimes I fall , but always do I stand up again . 
It is a strange thing to see . 
All about is the snow and the silence , and through it crawl the man and the woman , and the stranger man who goes before . 
On either side the sun are sun dogs , so that there are three suns in the sky . 
The frost dust is like the dust of diamonds , and all the air is filled with it . 
Now the woman coughs , and lies still in the snow until the fit has passed , when she crawls on again . 
Now the man looks ahead , and he is blear eyed as with old age and must rub his eyes so that he can see the stranger man . 
And now the stranger man looks back over his shoulder . 
And Sitka Charley , standing upright , maybe falls down and stands upright again . 
After a long time the stranger man crawls no more . 
He stands slowly upon his feet and rocks back and forth . 
Also does he take off one mitten and wait with revolver in his hand , rocking back and forth as he waits . 
His face is skin and bones and frozen black . 
It is a hungry face . 
The eyes are deep sunk in his head , and the lips are snarling . 
The man and woman , too , get upon their feet and they go toward him very slowly . 
And all about is the snow and the silence . 
And in the sky are three suns , and all the air is flashing with the dust of diamonds . 
And thus it was that I , Sitka Charley , saw the baby wolves make their kill . 
Only does the stranger man snarl with his hungry face . 
Also does he rock to and fro , his shoulders drooping , his knees bent , and his legs wide apart so that he does not fall down . 
The man and the woman stop maybe fifty feet away . 
Their legs , too , are wide apart so that they do not fall down , and their bodies rock to and fro . 
The stranger man is very weak . 
His arm shakes , so that when he shoots at the man his bullet strikes in the snow . 
The man cannot take off his mitten . 
The stranger man shoots at him again , and this time the bullet goes by in the air . 
Then the man takes the mitten in his teeth and pulls it off . 
But his hand is frozen and he cannot hold the revolver , and it fails in the snow . 
I look at the woman . 
Her mitten is off , and the big Colt's revolver is in her hand . 
Three times she shoot , quick , just like that . 
The hungry face of the stranger man is still snarling as he falls forward into the snow . 
They do not look at the dead man . 
'Let us go on , they say . 
But now that they have found that for which they look , they are like dead . 
The last strength has gone out of them . 
They can stand no more upon their feet . 
They will not crawl , but desire only to close their eyes and sleep . 
I see not far away a place for camp . 
I have my dog whip , and I give them the lash of it . 
They cry aloud , but they must crawl . 
And they do crawl to the place for camp . 
I build fire so that they will not freeze . 
Then I go back for sled . 
Also , I kill the dogs of the stranger man so that we may have food and not die . 
I put the man and woman in blankets and they sleep . 
Sometimes I wake them and give them little bit of food . 
They are not awake , but they take the food . 
The woman sleep one day and a half . 
Then she wake up and go to sleep again . 
The man sleep two days and wake up and go to sleep again . 
After that we go down to the coast at St . 
And when the ice goes out of Bering Sea , the man and woman go away on a steamship . 
But first they pay me my seven hundred and fifty dollars a month . 
Also , they make me a present of one thousand dollars . 
And that was the year that Sitka Charley gave much money to the Mission at Holy Cross . 
But why did they kill the man ? I asked . 
Sitka Charley delayed reply until he had lighted his pipe . 
He glanced at the POLICE GAZETTE illustration and nodded his head at it familiarly . 
Then he said , speaking slowly and ponderingly I have thought much . 
It is something that happened . 
It is a picture I remember . 
It is like looking in at the window and seeing the man writing a letter . 
They came into my life and they went out of my life , and the picture is as I have said , without beginning , the end without understanding . 
You have painted many pictures in the telling , I said . 
Ay , he nodded his head . 
But they were without beginning and without end . 
The last picture of all had an end , I said . 
But what end ? It was a piece of life , I said . 
It was a piece of life . 
A rabbit skin sleeping robe , a muzzle loading rifle , and a few pounds of sun dried salmon constituted his outfit . 
He would have marvelled that a whole people women and children and aged could travel so swiftly , had he not known the terror that drove them on . 
Though near the midnight hour , it was bright day as he passed through the weary camp . 
Many saw him , all knew him , but few and cold were the greetings he received . 
Negore , the Coward , he heard Illiha , a young woman , laugh , and Sun ne , his sister's daughter , laughed with her . 
Black anger ate at his heart but he gave no sign , threading his way among the camp fires until he came to one where sat an old man . 
A young woman was kneading with skilful fingers the tired muscles of his legs . 
He raised a sightless face and listened intently as Negore's foot crackled a dead twig . 
Who comes ? he queried in a thin , tremulous voice . 
Negore , said the young woman , scarcely looking up from her task . 
For many minutes he stood and waited . 
The old man's head had sunk back upon his chest . 
The young woman pressed and prodded the wasted muscles , resting her body on her knees , her bowed head hidden as in a cloud by her black wealth of hair . 
He looked , and was aware of a great yearning , akin in sensation to physical hunger . 
At last he spoke , saying Is there no greeting for Negore , who has been long gone and has but now come back ? She looked up at him with cold eyes . 
The old man chuckled to himself after the manner of the old . 
Thou art my woman , Oona , Negore said , his tones dominant and conveying a hint of menace . 
She arose with catlike ease and suddenness to her full height , her eyes flashing , her nostrils quivering like a deer's . 
Old Kinoos and I came among you from a strange land . 
Thy people took us in by their fires and made us warm , nor asked whence or why we wandered . 
It was their thought that Old Kinoos had lost the sight of his eyes from age nor did Old Kinoos say otherwise , nor did I , his daughter . 
Old Kinoos is a brave man , but Old Kinoos was never a boaster . 
Again she silenced the speech that rushed up to his tongue . 
Know , Negore , if journey be added unto journey of all thy journeyings through this land , thou wouldst not come to the unknown Sitka on the Great Salt Sea . 
In that place there be many Russian folk , and their rule is harsh . 
My mother dead tells the tale of his wrong a Russian , dead with a spear through breast and back , tells the tale of the vengeance of Kinoos . 
But wherever we fled , and however far we fled , always did we find the hated Russian folk . 
We lived among many peoples , and I grew to be a woman but Kinoos , growing old , took to him no other woman , nor did I take a man . 
At last we came to Pastolik , which is where the Yukon drowns itself in the Great Fog Sea . 
Here we lived long , on the rim of the sea , among a people by whom the Russians were well hated . 
But sometimes they came , these Russians , in great ships , and made the people of Pastolik show them the way through the islands uncountable of the many mouthed Yukon . 
And sometimes the men they took to show them the way never came back , till the people became angry and planned a great plan . 
So , when there came a ship , Old Kinoos stepped forward and said he would show the way . 
He was an old man then , and his hair was white but he was unafraid . 
And he was cunning , for he took the ship to where the sea sucks in to the land and the waves beat white on the mountain called Romanoff . 
The sea sucked the ship in to where the waves beat white , and it ground upon the rocks and broke open its sides . 
, with their war spears , and arrows , and some few guns . 
Now the head man of these Russians was Ivan . 
He it was , with his two thumbs , who drove out the eyes of Kinoos . 
He could see no more and was helpless as a child . 
So he fled away from the sea , up the great , strange Yukon , even to Nulato , and I fled with him . 
This was the deed my father did , Kinoos , an old man . 
But how did the young man , Negore ? Once again she silenced him . 
With my own eyes I saw , at Nulato , before the gates of the great fort , and but few days gone . 
I saw the Russian , Ivan , who thrust out my father's eyes , lay the lash of his dog whip upon thee and beat thee like a dog . 
This I saw , and knew thee for a coward . 
But I saw thee not , that night , when all thy people yea , even the boys not yet hunters fell upon the Russians and slew them all . 
Not Ivan , said Negore , quietly . 
Even now is he on our heels , and with him many Russians fresh up from the sea . 
Thou art done ? All done ? Negore asked . 
She nodded her head and looked at him askance , as though astonished that he should have aught to say . 
Know then that Negore is no coward , he said and his speech was very low and quiet . 
Know that when I was yet a boy I journeyed alone down to the place where the Yukon drowns itself in the Great Fog Sea . 
Even to Pastolik I journeyed , and even beyond , into the north , along the rim of the sea . 
This I did when I was a boy , and I was no coward . 
Also have I killed the great bear of the Tanana country , where no one of my people hath ever been . 
And I have fought with the Nuklukyets , and the Kaltags , and the Sticks in far regions , even I , and alone . 
These deeds , whereof no man knows , I speak for myself . 
Let my people speak for me of things I have done which they know . 
They will not say Negore is a coward . 
He finished proudly , and proudly waited . 
These be things which happened before I came into the land , she said , and I know not of them . 
Also , thy people do call thee Negore , the Coward . 
It is thy name now , Negore , the Coward . 
It is not a good name , Old Kinoos chuckled . 
Thou dost not understand , Kinoos , Negore said gently . 
But I shall make thee understand . 
Know that I was away on the hunt of the bear , with Kamo tah , my mother's son . 
And Kamo tah fought with a great bear . 
We had no meat for three days , and Kamo tah was not strong of arm nor swift of foot . 
And the great bear crushed him , so , till his bones cracked like dry sticks . 
Thus I found him , very sick and groaning upon the ground . 
And there was no meat , nor could I kill aught that the sick man might eat . 
So I said , 'I will go to Nulato and bring thee food , also strong men to carry thee to camp . 
And Kamo tah said , 'Go thou to Nulato and get food , but say no word of what has befallen me . 
And when I have eaten , and am grown well and strong , I will kill this bear . 
Then will I return in honor to Nulato , and no man may laugh and say Kamo tah was undone by a bear . 
For no man knew of Kamo tah , sick and groaning and hungry and did I fight with Ivan , and die , then would my brother die , too . 
So it was , Oona , that thou sawest me beaten like a dog . 
As I say , I heard the talk , and I knew it for good talk , and I knew that in the night the Russians were to be killed . 
But there was my brother , Kamo tah , sick and groaning and with no meat so I could not stay and fight with the men and the boys not yet hunters . 
And I took with me meat and fish , and the lash marks of Ivan , and I found Kamo tah no longer groaning , but dead . 
Then I went back to Nulato , and , behold , there was no Nulato only ashes where the great fort had stood , and the bodies of many men . 
And the next day I saw Ivan lead them upon the trail of the tribe . 
Even now are they upon the trail , and I am here , Negore , but no coward . 
This is a tale I hear , said Oona , though her voice was gentler than before . 
Kamo tah is dead and cannot speak for thee , and I know only what I know , and I must know thee of my own eyes for no coward . 
Negore made an impatient gesture . 
There be ways and ways , she added . 
Art thou willing to do no less than what Old Kinoos hath done ? He nodded his head , and waited . 
As thou hast said , they seek for us even now , these Russians . 
Thou knowest the place , where the wall is broken and high . 
Then will we destroy them , even Ivan . 
And the women and children , from above , shall loosen the great rocks and hurl them down upon them . 
Like a dog gone mad will he die , his breath crushed out of him beneath the rocks . 
And when the fighting begins , it is for thee , Negore , to crawl secretly away so that thou be not slain . 
Even so , he answered . 
Negore will show them the way . 
And then ? And then I shall be thy woman , Negore's woman , the brave man's woman . 
And as I say , I shall be thy woman , Negore , always thy woman . 
Even so , said Negore , and the hunger for her ate at his heart , and his arms went out for her as a hungry man's arms might go out for food . 
It is well , he said , turning resolutely on his heel . 
I go now to make talk with the chiefs , so that they may know I am gone to show the Russians the way . 
And know , strange brother , when I tell thee the word of Ivan is the law , that I am thy friend and no friend of Ivan . 
Negore waited while Karduk talked with Ivan . 
Then Negore saw the Russian's face go dark , and he saw the men step to either side of him , snapping the lashes of their whips . 
Whereupon he betrayed a great fright , and cried aloud that he was a sick man and knew nothing , but would tell what he knew . 
It was a strange following his dull eyes saw . 
Negore looked upon them with satisfaction , and in his mind's eye he saw them crushed and lifeless at the passage up the rocks . 
But never did he forget to shiver , nor to stumble where the footing was rough , nor to cry aloud at the bite of the lash . 
Also , he was afraid of Karduk , for he knew him for no true man . 
His was a false eye , and an easy tongue a tongue too easy , he judged , for the awkwardness of honest speech . 
All that day they marched . 
And on the next , when Karduk asked him at command of Ivan , he said he doubted they would meet with his tribe till the morrow . 
So when they came to a passage up the rocks , he halted his forty men , and through Karduk demanded if the way were clear . 
Negore looked at it shortly and carelessly . 
It was a vast slide that broke the straight wall of a cliff , and was overrun with brush and creeping plants , where a score of tribes could have lain well hidden . 
Nay , there be nothing there , he said . 
My talk is straight , Negore said . 
Still Ivan doubted , and ordered two of his Slavonian hunters to go up alone . 
Two other men he ordered to the side of Negore . 
They placed their guns against his breast and waited . 
And Negore knew , should one arrow fly , or one spear be flung , that his death would come upon him . 
The guns were lowered from Negore's breast and Ivan gave the order for his men to go forward . 
Ivan was silent , lost in thought . 
For he was thinking , likewise , of another passage up the rocks , to which they would soon come , and where the little birds would all be gone . 
Negore looked , and he looked with two men by his side , their guns resting against his breast . 
He saw that the little birds were all gone , and once he saw the glint of sunlight on a rifle barrel . 
And he thought of Oona , and of her words And when the fighting begins , it is for thee , Negore , to crawl secretly away so that thou be not slain . 
He felt the two guns pressing on his breast . 
This was not the way she had planned . 
There would be no crawling secretly away . 
He would be the first to die when the fighting began . 
But he said , and his voice was steady , and he still feigned to see with dull eyes and to shiver from his sickness The way is clear . 
And they started up , Ivan and his forty men from the far lands beyond the Sea of Bering . 
And there was Karduk , the man from Pastolik , and Negore , with the two guns always upon him . 
It was a long climb , and they could not go fast but very fast to Negore they seemed to approach the midway point where top was no less near than bottom . 
But he gripped his life with a miser's clutch and would not let it go . 
The sun danced above him in the sky , the huge walls reeled and swung , and still he heard and saw dimly . 
And when the great Ivan fell across his legs , hurled there lifeless and crushed by a down rushing rock , he remembered the blind eyes of Old Kinoos and was glad . 
Then the sounds died down , and the rocks no longer thundered past , and he saw his tribespeople creeping close and closer , spearing the wounded as they came . 
And near to him he heard the scuffle of a mighty Slavonian hunter , loath to die , and , half uprisen , borne back and down by the thirsty spears . 
Thou art a brave man , Negore , he heard her say in his ear thou art my man , Negore . 
And as even the memories dimmed and died in the darkness that fell upon him , he knew in her arms the fulfilment of all the ease and rest she had promised him . 
