LETTER II A lady's get up Grizzly bears The Gem of the Sierras A tragic tale A carnival of color . 
LETTER III A Temple of Morpheus Utah A God forgotten town A distressed couple Dog villages A temperance colony A Colorado inn The bug pest Fort Collins . 
LETTER IV A plague of flies A melancholy charioteer The Foot Hills A mountain boarding house A dull life Being agreeable Climate of Colorado Soroche and snakes . 
Vrain The Rocky Mountains at last Mountain Jim A death hug Estes Park . 
LETTER XI Tarryall Creek The Red Range Excelsior Importunate pedlars Snow and heat A bison calf Deep drifts South Park The Great Divide Comanche Bill Difficulties Hall's Gulch A Lord Dundreary Ridiculous fears . 
LETTER XVII Woman's mission The last morning Crossing the St . 
Vrain again Crossing the prairie Jim's dream Keeping strangers The inn kitchen A reputed child eater Notoriety A quiet dance Jim's resolve The frost fall An unfortunate introduction . 
Letter I Lake Tahoe Morning in San Francisco Dust A Pacific mail train Digger Indians Cape Horn A mountain hotel A pioneer A Truckee livery stable A mountain stream Finding a bear Tahoe . 
I have found a dream of beauty at which one might look all one's life and sigh . 
Lake Tahoe is before me , a sheet of water twenty two miles long by ten broad , and in some places , feet deep . 
It lies at a height of , feet , and the snow crowned summits which wall it in are from , to , feet in altitude . 
The air is keen and elastic . 
There is no sound but the distant and slightly musical ring of the lumberer's axe . 
Other streets were piled with sacks of flour , left out all night , owing to the security from rain at this season . 
From off the boundless harvest fields the grain was carried in June , and it is now stacked in sacks along the track , awaiting freightage . 
California is a land flowing with milk and honey . 
The barns are bursting with fullness . 
The mercury stood at degrees in the shade , and the fine white dust was stifling . 
In the late afternoon we began the ascent of the Sierras , whose sawlike points had been in sight for many miles . 
At Colfax , a station at a height of , feet , I got out and walked the length of the train . 
The engines and tenders were succeeded by a baggage car , the latter loaded with bullion and valuable parcels , and in charge of two express agents . 
Each of these cars is forty five feet long . 
The platforms of the four front cars were clustered over with Digger Indians , with their squaws , children , and gear . 
They are perfect savages , without any aptitude for even aboriginal civilization , and are altogether the most degraded of the ill fated tribes which are dying out before the white races . 
The squaws wore their hair thickly plastered with pitch , and a broad band of the same across their noses and cheeks . 
They carried their infants on their backs , strapped to boards . 
The clothing of both sexes was a ragged , dirty combination of coarse woolen cloth and hide , the moccasins being unornamented . 
They were all hideous and filthy , and swarming with vermin . 
The men carried short bows and arrows , one of them , who appeared to be the chief , having a lynx's skin for a quiver . 
A few had fishing tackle , but the bystanders said that they lived almost entirely upon grasshoppers . 
They were a most impressive incongruity in the midst of the tokens of an omnipotent civilization . 
The light of the sinking sun from that time glorified the Sierras , and as the dew fell , aromatic odors made the still air sweet . 
One of these sheds is twenty seven miles long . 
A band was playing noisily , and the unholy sound of tom toms was not far off . 
The crowd was solely masculine . 
I asked the Negro factotum about the hire of horses , and presently a man came in from the bar who , he said , could supply my needs . 
I was afterwards told that the usual regular hours of sleep are not observed there . 
Consequently I found the bed and room allotted to me quite tumbled looking . 
Men's coats and sticks were hanging up , miry boots were littered about , and a rifle was in one corner . 
Nelson's Guide to the Central Pacific Railroad . 
This morning Truckee wore a totally different aspect . 
The crowds of the night before had disappeared . 
There were heaps of ashes where the fires had been . 
It might have been Sunday but they say that it brings a great accession of throng and jollity . 
Public worship has died out at present work is discontinued on Sunday , but the day is given up to pleasure . 
My friend of the evening before showed me his rig , three velvet covered side saddles almost without horns . 
Some ladies , he said , used the horn of the Mexican saddle , but none in the part rode cavalier fashion . 
Neither he nor any of the loafers who had assembled showed the slightest sign of astonishment , but all were as respectful as possible . 
Pines cleft the sky they were massed wherever level ground occurred they stood over the Truckee at right angles , or lay across it in prostrate grandeur . 
Their stumps and carcasses were everywhere and smooth shoots on the sierras marked where they were shot down as felled timber , to be floated off by the river . 
To them this wild region owes its scattered population , and the sharp ring of the lumberer's axe mingles with the cries of wild beasts and the roar of mountain torrents . 
The track is a soft , natural , wagon road , very pleasant to ride on . 
It was one of those glorious surprises in scenery which make one feel as if one must bow down and worship . 
I had only a glimpse of him , and thought that my imagination had magnified a wild boar , but it was a bear . 
I got up covered with dust , but neither shaken nor bruised . 
It was truly grotesque and humiliating . 
The bear ran in one direction , and the horse in another . 
I hurried after the latter , and twice he stopped till I was close to him , then turned round and cantered away . 
He said that the woods in the neighborhood of Tahoe had been full of brown and grizzly bears for some days , but that no one was in any danger from them . 
I took a long gallop beyond the scene of my tumble to quiet the horse , who was most restless and troublesome . 
Then the scenery became truly magnificent and bright with life . 
It lay dimpling and scintillating beneath the noonday sun , as entirely unspoilt as fifteen years ago , when its pure loveliness was known only to trappers and Indians . 
At this height there is frost every night of the year , and my fingers are benumbed . 
Indigo , red , and orange tints stain the still water , which lies solemn and dark against the shore , under the shadow of stately pines . 
An hour later , and a moon nearly full not a pale , flat disc , but a radiant sphere has wheeled up into the flushed sky . 
I. L. B. Letter II A lady's get up Grizzly bears The Gems of the Sierras A tragic tale A carnival of color . 
CHEYENNE , WYOMING , September . 
As night came on the cold intensified , and the stove in the parlor attracted every one . 
In a few years Tahoe will be inundated in summer with similar vulgarity , owing to its easiness of access . 
I dreamt of bears so vividly that I woke with a furry death hug at my throat , but feeling quite refreshed . 
Truly , that air is the elixir of life . 
I had a glorious ride back to Truckee . 
The road was not as solitary as the day before . 
In a deep part of the forest the horse snorted and reared , and I saw a cinnamon colored bear with two cubs cross the track ahead of me . 
The driver of another team stopped and asked if I had seen any bears . 
Then a man heavily armed , a hunter probably , asked me if I were the English tourist who had happened on a Grizzly yesterday . 
I mention these little incidents to indicate the habit of respectful courtesy to women which prevails in that region . 
These men might have been excused for speaking in a somewhat free and easy tone to a lady riding alone , and in an unwonted fashion . 
Womanly dignity and manly respect for women are the salt of society in this wild West . 
This man said , There's a bad breed of ruffians , but the ugliest among them all won't touch you . 
There's nothing Western folk admire so much as pluck in a woman . 
I had to get on a barrel before I could reach the stirrup , and when I was mounted my feet only came half way down the horse's sides . 
I felt like a fly on him . 
I hurried along , and came upon the Donner Lake quite suddenly , to be completely smitten by its beauty . 
It is only about three miles long by one and a half broad , and lies hidden away among mountains , with no dwellings on its shores but some deserted lumberers' cabins . 
Its loneliness pleased me well . 
I did not see man , beast , or bird from the time I left Truckee till I returned . 
On the opposite side , at a height of about , feet , a grey , ascending line , from which rumbling , incoherent sounds occasionally proceeded , is seen through the pines . 
This is one of the snow sheds of the Pacific Railroad , which shuts out from travelers all that I was seeing . 
The rescue party overpowered him , and with difficulty tore the arm from him . 
The story never gained any credence , and the truth oozed out that the German had murdered the husband , then brutally murdered the wife , and had seized upon Donner's money . 
There were , however , no witnesses , and the murderer escaped with the enforced surrender of the money to the Donner orphans . 
Visitors can now be accommodated at a tolerable mountain hotel . 
This tragic story filled my mind as I rode towards the head of the lake , which became every moment grander and more unutterably lovely . 
I. L. B. Letter III A Temple of Morpheus Utah A God forgotten town A distressed couple Dog villages A temperance colony A Colorado inn The bug pest Fort Collins . 
CHEYENNE , WYOMING , September . 
The twenty four inmates of the car were all invisible , asleep behind rich curtains . 
It was a true Temple of Morpheus . 
Profound sleep was the object to which everything was dedicated . 
Four silver lamps hanging from the roof , and burning low , gave a dreamy light . 
The temperature was carefully kept at degrees . 
Silence and freedom from jolting were secured by double doors and windows , costly and ingenious arrangements of springs and cushions , and a speed limited to eighteen miles an hour . 
Far as one could see in the crystalline air there was nothing but desert . 
The jagged Humboldt ranges flaming in the sunset , with snow in their clefts , though forty five miles off , looked within an easy canter . 
The bright metal track , purpling like all else in the cool distance , was all that linked one with Eastern or Western civilization . 
The women were ugly , and their shapeless blue dresses hideous . 
By common consent the windows were kept closed to exclude the fine white alkaline dust , which is very irritating to the nostrils . 
found us shivering at Fort Laramie , a frontier post dismally situated at a height of , feet . 
Another , feet over gravelly levels brought us to Sherman , the highest level reached by this railroad . 
From this point eastward the streams fall into the Atlantic . 
It became mercilessly cold some people thought it snowed , but I only saw rolling billows of fog . 
The mountains which bound the valley of the Babbling Waters , Utah , afford striking examples of these knobs or buttes . 
The surrounding plains were endless and verdureless . 
The scanty grasses were long ago turned into sun cured hay by the fierce summer heats . 
Cheyenne is described as a God forsaken , God forgotten place . 
That it forgets God is written on its face . 
At times over wagons , with double that number of teamsters , are in Cheyenne at once . 
But in the West , when things reach their worst , a sharp and sure remedy is provided . 
Those settlers who find the state of matters intolerable , organize themselves into a Vigilance Committee . 
A number of the worst desperadoes are tried by a yet more summary process than a drumhead court martial , strung up , and buried ignominiously . 
I have been told that ruffians were disposed of in this way here in a single fortnight . 
Piety is not the forte of Cheyenne . 
The roads resound with atrocious profanity , and the rowdyism of the saloons and bar rooms is repressed , not extirpated . 
The population , once , , is now about , . 
It is an ill arranged set of frame houses and shanties and rubbish heaps , and offal of deer and antelope , produce the foulest smells I have smelt for a long time . 
It is utterly slovenly looking , and unornamental , abounds in slouching bar room looking characters , and looks a place of low , mean lives . 
A solitary wagon , with a white tilt , drawn by eight oxen , is probably bearing an emigrant and his fortunes to Colorado . 
On one of the dreary spaces of the settlement six white tilted wagons , each with twelve oxen , are standing on their way to a distant part . 
Armed with these , I shall plunge boldly into Colorado . 
I am suffering from giddiness and nausea produced by the bad smells . 
A help here says that there have been fifty six deaths from cholera during the last twenty days . 
He had been ordered to the Plains as a last resource , but was much worse . 
The child had been ill all night , and not for love or money could he get any one to do anything for them , not even to go for the medicine . 
The lady was blue , and in great pain from cramp , and the poor unweaned infant was roaring for the nourishment which had failed . 
Equally in vain I hunted through Cheyenne for a feeding bottle . 
It gave me a strange sensation to embark upon the Plains . 
Plains , plains everywhere , plains generally level , but elsewhere rolling in long undulations , like the waves of a sea which had fallen asleep . 
They are covered thinly with buff grass , the withered stalks of flowers , Spanish bayonet , and a small beehive shaped cactus . 
One could gallop all over them . 
They are peopled with large villages of what are called prairie dogs , because they utter a short , sharp bark , but the dogs are , in reality , marmots . 
We passed numbers of villages , which are composed of raised circular orifices , about eighteen inches in diameter , with sloping passages leading downwards for five or six feet . 
Hundreds of these burrows are placed together . 
On nearly every rim a small furry reddish buff beast sat on his hind legs , looking , so far as head went , much like a young seal . 
These creatures were acting as sentinels , and sunning themselves . 
As we passed , each gave a warning yelp , shook its tail , and , with a ludicrous flourish of its hind legs , dived into its hole . 
The appearance of hundreds of these creatures , each eighteen inches long , sitting like dogs begging , with their paws down and all turned sunwards , is most grotesque . 
The Wish ton Wish has few enemies , and is a most prolific animal . 
An American railway car , hot , stuffy and full of chewing , spitting Yankees , was not an ideal way of approaching this range which had early impressed itself upon my imagination . 
Still , it was truly grand , although it was sixty miles off , and we were looking at it from a platform , feet in height . 
As I write I am only twenty five miles from them , and they are gradually gaining possession of me . 
I can look at and FEEL nothing else . 
This settlement is called the Greeley Temperance Colony , and was founded lately by an industrious class of emigrants from the East , all total abstainers , and holding advanced political opinions . 
As the men have no bar rooms to sit in , I observed that Greeley was asleep at an hour when other places were beginning their revelries . 
Nature is niggardly , and living is coarse and rough , the merest necessaries of hardy life being all that can be thought of in this stage of existence . 
My first experiences of Colorado travel have been rather severe . 
It was very hot , and every place was thick with black flies . 
The English landlady had just lost her help , and was in a great fuss , so that I helped her to get supper ready . 
Its chief features were greasiness and black flies . 
Twenty men in working clothes fed and went out again , nobody speaking to nobody . 
The landlady introduced me to a Vermont settler who lives in the Foot Hills , who was very kind and took a great deal of trouble to get me a horse . 
They nearly all buck , and are described as being more ugly and treacherous than mules . 
There is only one horse in Greeley safe for a woman to ride . 
I tried an Indian pony by moonlight such a moonlight but found he had tender feet . 
The kitchen was the only sitting room , so I shortly went to bed , to be awoke very soon by crawling creatures apparently in myriads . 
I struck a light , and found such swarms of bugs that I gathered myself up on the wooden chairs , and dozed uneasily till sunrise . 
Bugs are a great pest in Colorado . 
They come out of the earth , infest the wooden walls , and cannot be got rid of by any amount of cleanliness . 
Many careful housewives take their beds to pieces every week and put carbolic acid on them . 
It was a glorious , cool morning , and the great range of the Rocky Mountains looked magnificent . 
We left Greeley at , and arrived here at , staying an hour for food on the way . 
Then the eyes have never anything green to rest upon , except in the river bottoms , where there is green hay grass . 
When once beyond the scattered houses and great ring fence of the vigorous Greeley colonists , we were on the boundless prairie . 
Now and then horsemen passed us , and we met three wagons with white tilts . 
Except where the prairie dogs have honeycombed the ground , you can drive almost anywhere , and the passage of a few wagons over the same track makes a road . 
The lack of foreground is a great artistic fault , and the absence of greenery is melancholy , and makes me recall sadly the entrancing detail of the Hawaiian Islands . 
Once only , the second time we forded the river , the cotton woods formed a foreground , and then the loveliness was heavenly . 
It is the election day for the Territory , and men were galloping over the prairie to register their votes . 
The three in the wagon talked politics the whole time . 
They spoke openly and shamelessly of the prices given for votes and apparently there was not a politician on either side who was not accused of degrading corruption . 
We saw a convoy of , head of Texas cattle traveling from southern Texas to Iowa . 
You see a rifle in every wagon , as people always hope to fall in with game . 
By the time we reached Fort Collins I was sick and dizzy with the heat of the sun , and not disposed to be pleased with a most unpleasing place . 
It was a military post , but at present consists of a few frame houses put down recently on the bare and burning plain . 
The settlers have great expectations , but of what ? The Mountains look hardly nearer than from Greeley one only realizes their vicinity by the loss of their higher peaks . 
This house is freer from bugs than the one at Greeley , but full of flies . 
The lower floor of this inn swarms with locusts in addition to thousands of black flies . 
The latter cover the ground and rise buzzing from it as you walk . 
I. L. B. Letter IV A plague of flies A melancholy charioteer The Foot Hills A mountain boarding house A dull life Being agreeable Climate of Colorado Soroche and snakes . 
I was actually so dull and tired that I deliberately slept away the afternoon in order to forget the heat and flies . 
Thirty men in working clothes , silent and sad looking , came in to supper . 
The beef was tough and greasy , the butter had turned to oil , and beef and butter were black with living , drowned , and half drowned flies . 
The greasy table cloth was black also with flies , and I did not wonder that the guests looked melancholy and quickly escaped . 
I failed to get a horse , but was strongly recommended to come here and board with a settler , who , they said , had a saw mill and took boarders . 
Early the next morning I left in a buggy drawn by light broncos and driven by a profoundly melancholy young man . 
He had never been to the canyon there was no road . 
I had been recommended to two of these , which professed to take in strangers , but one was full of reapers , and in the other a child was dead . 
So I took the buggy on , glad to leave the glaring , prosaic settlement behind . 
There was a most curious loneliness about the journey up to that time . 
Except for the huge barrier to the right , the boundless prairies were everywhere , and it was like being at sea without a compass . 
The wheels made neither sound nor indentation as we drove over the short , dry grass , and there was no cheerful clatter of horses' hoofs . 
The sky was cloudy and the air hot and still . 
In one place we passed the carcass of a mule , and a number of vultures soared up from it , to descend again immediately . 
Skeletons and bones of animals were often to be seen . 
He grew frightened about his horses , and said no money would ever tempt him into the mountains again but average intelligence would have made it all easy . 
A rushing stream roared through it , and the Rocky Mountains , with pines scattered over them , came down upon it . 
A little farther , and the canyon became utterly inaccessible . 
This was exciting here was an inner world . 
A rough and shaky bridge , made of the outsides of pines laid upon some unsecured logs , crossed the river . 
The broncos stopped and smelt it , not liking it , but some encouraging speech induced them to go over . 
On the other side was a log cabin , partially ruinous , and the very rudest I ever saw , its roof of plastered mud being broken into large holes . 
It stood close to the water among some cotton wood trees . 
A little higher there was a very primitive saw mill , also out of repair , with some logs lying about . 
There was an adjacent cabin room , with a stove , benches , and table , where they cooked and ate , but this was all . 
A hard , sad looking woman looked at me measuringly . 
The horses had to be fed , and I sat down on a box , had some dried beef and milk , and considered the matter . 
So I decided to remain . 
Five days here , and I am no nearer Estes Park . 
How the days pass I know not I am weary of the limitations of this existence . 
This is a life in which nothing happens . 
When the buggy disappeared , I felt as if I had cut the bridge behind me . 
I sat down and knitted for some time my usual resource under discouraging circumstances . 
I really did not know how I should get on . 
There was no table , no bed , no basin , no towel , no glass , no window , no fastening on the door . 
The roof was in holes , the logs were unchinked , and one end of the cabin was partially removed ! Life was reduced to its simplest elements . 
I went out the family all had something to do , and took no notice of me . 
I tried to draw her into talk , but she twirled her fingers and replied snappishly in monosyllables . 
Could I by any effort make myself agreeable ? I wondered . 
I put on my Hawaiian dress , rolling up the sleeves to the elbows in an agreeable fashion . 
Towards evening the family returned to feed , and pushed some dried beef and milk in at the door . 
They all slept under the trees , and before dark carried the sacks of straw out for their bedding . 
I followed their example that night , or rather watched Charles's Wain while they slept , but since then have slept on blankets on the floor under the roof . 
They have neither lamp nor candle , so if I want to do anything after dark I have to do it by the unsteady light of pine knots . 
As the nights are cold , and free from bugs , and I do a good deal of manual labor , I sleep well . 
, rummagings under the floor , queer cries , and stealthy sounds of I know not what . 
My mirror is the polished inside of my watchcase . 
After breakfast I draw more water , and wash one or two garments daily , taking care that there are no witnesses of my inexperience . 
Yesterday a calf sucked one into hopeless rags . 
The rest of the day I spend in mending , knitting , writing to you , and the various odds and ends which arise when one has to do all for oneself . 
At twelve and six some food is put on the box by the door , and at dusk we make up our beds . 
A distressed emigrant woman has just given birth to a child in a temporary shanty by the river , and I go to help her each day . 
I have made the acquaintance of all the careworn , struggling settlers within a walk . 
People can safely sleep out of doors for six months of the year . 
The plains are from , to , feet high , and some of the settled parks , or mountain valleys , are from , to , . 
The air , besides being much rarefied , is very dry . 
The rainfall is far below the average , dews are rare , and fogs nearly unknown . 
The sunshine is bright and almost constant , and three fourths of the days are cloudless . 
The milk , beef , and bread are good . 
The climate is neither so hot in summer nor so cold in winter as that of the States , and when the days are hot the nights are cool . 
Snow rarely lies on the lower ranges , and horses and cattle don't require to be either fed or housed during the winter . 
Of course the rarefied air quickens respiration . 
All this is from hearsay . 
I am forming a plan for getting farther into the mountains , and hope that my next letter will be more lively . 
I killed a rattlesnake this morning close to the cabin , and have taken its rattle , which has eleven joints . 
Seven rattlesnakes have been killed just outside the cabin since I came . 
A snake , three feet long , was coiled under the pillow of the sick woman . 
I see snakes in all withered twigs , and am ready to flee at the sound of a shaken leaf . 
In traveling extensively through the Territory afterwards I found that nine out of every ten settlers were cured invalids . 
represent Colorado as the most remarkable sanatorium in the world . 
The absence of a date shows my predicament . 
My life has grown less dull from their having become more interesting to me , and as I have made myself agreeable , we are on fairly friendly terms . 
My first move in the direction of fraternizing was , however , snubbed . 
ain't no good never done nothing , I guess . 
Since then I have risen in their estimation by improvizing a lamp Hawaiian fashion by putting a wisp of rag into a tin of fat . 
They have actually condescended to sit up till the stars come out since . 
Another advance was made by means of the shell pattern quilt I am knitting for you . 
This has resulted in my having a knitting class , with the woman , her married daughter , and a woman from the camp , as pupils . 
Then I have gained ground with the man by being able to catch and saddle a horse . 
I am often reminded of my favorite couplet , Beware of desperate steps the darkest day , Live till to morrow , will have passed away . 
Chalmers came from Illinois nine years ago , pronounced by the doctors to be far gone in consumption , and in two years he was strong . 
They are a queer family somewhere in the remote Highlands I have seen such another . 
Its head is tall , gaunt , lean , and ragged , and has lost one eye . 
On an English road one would think him a starving or a dangerous beggar . 
He is slightly intelligent , very opinionated , and wishes to be thought well informed , which he is not . 
His great boast is that his ancestors were Scottish Covenanters . 
He considers himself a profound theologian , and by the pine logs at night discourses to me on the mysteries of the eternal counsels and the divine decrees . 
Colorado , with its progress and its future , is also a constant theme . 
He hates England with a bitter , personal hatred , and regards any allusions which I make to the progress of Victoria as a personal insult . 
He trusts to live to see the downfall of the British monarchy and the disintegration of the empire . 
They have one hundred and sixty acres of land , a Squatter's claim , and an invaluable water power . 
He is a lumberer , and has a saw mill of a very primitive kind . 
I notice that every day something goes wrong with it , and this is the case throughout . 
The cabin is hardly a shelter , but is allowed to remain in ruins because the foundation of a frame house was once dug . 
Nothing is ever ready or whole when it is wanted . 
It is hardly surprising that nine years of persevering shiftlessness should have resulted in nothing but the ability to procure the bare necessaries of life . 
Of Mrs. C. I can say less . 
All her waking hours are spent in a large sun bonnet . 
She is never idle for one minute , is severe and hard , and despises everything but work . 
I think she suffers from her husband's shiftlessness . 
She always speaks of me as This or that woman . 
By the whole family all courtesy and gentleness of act or speech seem regarded as works of the flesh , if not of the devil . 
They knock over all one's things without apologizing or picking them up , and when I thank them for anything they look grimly amazed . 
I feel that they think it sinful that I do not work as hard as they do . 
I wish I could show them a more excellent way . 
I write this reluctantly , and after a total experience of nearly two years in the United States . 
They seem to have no Sunday clothes , and few of any kind . 
The sewing machine , like most other things , is out of order . 
One comb serves the whole family . 
Mrs. C. is cleanly in her person and dress , and the food , though poor , is clean . 
Work , work , work , is their day and their life . 
They are thoroughly ungenial , and have that air of suspicion in speaking of every one which is not unusual in the land of their ancestors . 
Thomas Chalmers is the man's ecclesiastical hero , in spite of his own severe Puritanism . 
The old saddles are tied on with twine one side of the bridle is a worn out strap and the other a rope . 
They wear boots , but never two of one pair , and never blacked , of course , but no stockings . 
They think it quite effeminate to sleep under a roof , except during the severest months of the year . 
There is a married daughter across the river , just the same hard , loveless , moral , hard working being as her mother . 
Each morning , soon after seven , when I have swept the cabin , the family come in for worship . 
Chalmers wales a psalm , in every sense of the word wail , to the most doleful of dismal tunes they read a chapter round , and he prays . 
Sunday was a dreadful day . 
The family kept the Commandment literally , and did no work . 
Worship was conducted twice , and was rather longer than usual . 
Chalmers does not allow of any books in his house but theological works , and two or three volumes of dull travels , so the mother and children slept nearly all day . 
The man attempted to read a well worn copy of Boston's Fourfold State , but shortly fell asleep , and they only woke up for their meals . 
It was sickening , scorching , melting , unbearable , from the mere power of the sun's rays . 
It was an awful day , and seemed as if it would never come to an end . 
The cabin , with its mud roof under the shade of the trees , gave a little shelter , but it was occupied by the family , and I longed for solitude . 
When I awoke it was only noon . 
The sun looked wicked as it blazed like a white magnesium light . 
hung from the pine under which I had taken shelter , and looked as if it were going to drop upon me . 
I was covered with black flies . 
The air was full of a busy , noisy din of insects , and snakes , locusts , wasps , flies , and grasshoppers were all rioting in the torrid heat . 
It is jarring and painful , yet I would say of Chalmers , as Dr . 
The night came without coolness , but at daylight on Monday morning a fire was pleasant . 
You will now have some idea of my surroundings . 
It is a moral , hard , unloving , unlovely , unrelieved , unbeautified , grinding life . 
These people live in a discomfort and lack of ease and refinement which seems only possible to people of British stock . 
A foreigner fills his cabin with ingenuities and elegancies , and a Hawaiian or South Sea Islander makes his grass house both pretty and tasteful . 
Add to my surroundings a mighty canyon , impassable both above and below , and walls of mountains with an opening some miles off to the vast prairie sea . 
An English physician is settled about half a mile from here over a hill . 
He is spoken of as holding very extreme opinions . 
Chalmers rails at him for being a thick skulled Englishman , for being fine , polished , etc . 
To say a man is polished here is to give him a very bad name . 
He accuses him also of holding views subversive of all morality . 
In spite of all this , I thought he might possess a map , and I induced Mrs. C. to walk over with me . 
She intended it as a formal morning call , but she wore the inevitable sun bonnet , and had her dress tied up as when washing . 
The Foot Hills , with their terraces of flaming red rock , were glowing in the sunset , and a pure green sky arched tenderly over a soft evening scene . 
Used to the meanness and baldness of settlers' dwellings . 
I was delighted to see that in this instance the usual log cabin was only the lower floor of a small house , which bore a delightful resemblance to a Swiss chalet . 
It stood in a vegetable garden fertilized by an irrigating ditch , outside of which were a barn and cowshed . 
Inside , though plain and poor , the room looked a home , not like a squatter's cabin . 
Why do I write almost ? It was an oasis . 
Mrs. C. stayed an hour and a half , and then went home to the cows , when we launched upon a sea of congenial talk . 
They said they had not seen an educated lady for two years , and pressed me to go and visit them . 
I rode home on Dr . 
Hughes's horse after dark , to find neither fire nor light in the cabin . 
Mrs. C. had gone back saying , Those English talked just like savages , I couldn't understand a word they said . 
I had told him , he said , that I knew no one hereabouts , but his woman told him that Dr . 
How I extricated myself from the difficulty , deponent sayeth not . 
The rest of the evening has been spent in preparing to cross the mountains . 
Chalmers says he knows the way well , and that we shall sleep to morrow at the foot of Long's Peak . 
Mrs. Chalmers repents of having consented , and conjures up doleful visions of what the family will come to when left headless , and of disasters among the cows and hens . 
NAMELESS REGION , ROCKY MOUNTAINS , September . 
This is indeed far removed . 
It seems farther away from you than any place I have been to yet , except the frozen top of the volcano of Mauna Loa . 
It is the world of big game . 
Just now a heavy headed elk , with much branched horns fully three feet long , stood and looked at me , and then quietly trotted away . 
He was so near that I heard the grass , crisp with hoar frost , crackle under his feet . 
Bears stripped the cherry bushes within a few yards of us last night . 
Now two lovely blue birds , with crests on their heads , are picking about within a stone's throw . 
It is A. M. The sun has not yet risen high enough to melt the hoar frost , and the air is clear , bright , and cold . 
I hear nothing but the far off mysterious roaring of a river in a deep canyon , which we spent two hours last night in trying to find . 
The scenery up here is glorious , combining sublimity with beauty , and in the elastic air fatigue has dropped off from me . 
This is no region for tourists and women , only for a few elk and bear hunters at times , and its unprofaned freshness gives me new life . 
I cannot by any words give you an idea of scenery so different from any that you or I have ever seen . 
Deep , vast canyons , all trending westwards , lie in purple gloom . 
This is a view to which nothing needs to be added . 
This is truly the lodge in some vast wilderness for which one often sighs when in the midst of a bustle at once sordid and trivial . 
Johnson , these monstrous protuberances do inflame the imagination and elevate the understanding . 
This scenery satisfies my soul . 
Now , the Rocky Mountains realize nay , exceed the dream of my childhood . 
It is magnificent , and the air is life giving . 
I should like to spend some time in these higher regions , but I know that this will turn out an abortive expedition , owing to the stupidity and pigheadedness of Chalmers . 
There is a most romantic place called Estes Park , at a height of , feet , which can be reached by going down to the plains and then striking up the St . 
Any human being must have laughed to see an expedition start so grotesquely ill found . 
It is kindness to bring him up to abundant pasture . 
The cotton quilts covered the Rosinante from mane to tail . 
The inside horn of her saddle was broken to the outside one hung a saucepan and a bundle of clothes . 
The one girth was nearly at the breaking point when we started . 
My pack , with my well worn umbrella upon it , was behind my saddle . 
The queerest figure of all was the would be guide . 
With his one eye , his gaunt , lean form , and his torn clothes , he looked more like a strolling tinker than the honest worthy settler that he is . 
He bestrode rather than rode a gaunt mule , whose tail had all been shaven off , except a turf for a tassel at the end . 
On one foot C. wore an old high boot , into which his trouser was tucked , and on the other an old brogue , through which his toes protruded . 
We had an ascent of four hours through a ravine which gradually opened out upon this beautiful park , but we rode through it for some miles before the view burst upon us . 
The vastness of this range , like astronomical distances , can hardly be conceived of . 
From the first ridge we crossed after leaving Canyon we had a singular view of range beyond range cleft by deep canyons , and abounding in elliptical valleys , richly grassed . 
The slopes of all the hills , as far as one could see , were waving with fine grass ready for the scythe , but the food of wild animals only . 
All these ridges are heavily timbered with pitch pines , and where they come down on the grassy slopes they look as if the trees had been arranged by a landscape gardener . 
Far off , through an opening in a canyon , we saw the prairie simulating the ocean . 
Far off , through an opening in another direction , was the glistening outline of the Snowy Range . 
At this great height , and most artistically situated , we came upon a rude log camp tenanted in winter by an elk hunter , but now deserted . 
Chalmers without any scruple picked the padlock we lighted a fire , made some tea , and fried some bacon , and after a good meal mounted again and started for Estes Park . 
that somehow or other I would reach that blue hollow , and even stand on Long's Peak where the snow was glittering . 
Yet there was a trail , tolerably well worn , and the branches and twigs near the ground were well broken back . 
Ah ! it was a wild place . 
My horse fell first , rolling over twice , and breaking off a part of the saddle , in his second roll knocking me over a shelf of three feet of descent . 
Then Mrs. C. 's horse and the mule fell on the top of each other , and on recovering themselves bit each other savagely . 
The horses fell several times I could hardly get mine up at all , though I helped him as much as I could I was cut and bruised , scratched and torn . 
A spine of a cactus penetrated my foot , and some vicious thing cut the back of my neck . 
Poor Mrs. C. was much bruised , and I pitied her , for she got no fun out of it as I did . 
It was an awful climb . 
We had no food , but made a fire . 
Oh , he said they'll be all right . 
In truth he had no picketing pins . 
Now , the animals are merrily trotting homewards . 
I saw them two miles off an hour ago with him after them . 
I have made a monstrous fire , but thirst and impatience are hard to bear , and preventible misfortunes are always irksome . 
I. L. B. LOWER CANYON , September . 
We never reached Estes Park . 
There is no trail , and horses have never been across . 
We started from camp at ten , and spent four hours in searching for the trail . 
Vainly I pointed out to him that we were going north east when we should have gone south west , and that we were ascending instead of descending . 
Oh , it's all right , and we shall soon come to water , he always replied . 
I could not help laughing . 
He had deliberately turned his back on Estes Park . 
He then confessed that he was lost , and that he could not find the way back . 
His wife sat down on the ground and cried bitterly . 
Soon after his wife was thrown from her horse , and cried bitterly again from fright and mortification . 
Soon after that the girth of the mule's saddle broke , and having no crupper , saddle and addenda went over his head , and the flour was dispersed . 
Next the girth of the woman's saddle broke , and she went over her horse's head . 
Then he began to fumble helplessly at it , railing against England the whole time , while I secured the saddle , and guided the route back to an outlet of the park . 
The sun was setting in glory as we started for the four hours' ride home , and the frost was intense , and made our bruised , grazed limbs ache painfully . 
Yet , after all , they were not bad souls and though he failed so grotesquely , he did his incompetent best . 
Vrain The Rocky Mountains at last Mountain Jim A death hug Estes Park . 
My entrance upon it was signalized in this fashion . 
They could hardly believe that no bones were broken . 
The surroundings here are pleasing . 
One side of the valley is formed by cliffs and terraces of porphyry as red as the reddest new brick , and at sunset blazing into vermilion . 
Through rifts in the nearer ranges there are glimpses of pine clothed peaks , which , towards twilight , pass through every shade of purple and violet . 
The air has been cold , but the sun bright and hot during the last few days . 
The story of my host is a story of misfortune . 
It indicates who should NOT come to Colorado . 
He and his wife are under thirty five . 
In an evil hour he heard of Colorado with its unrivalled climate , boundless resources , etc . 
Mrs. Hughes is one of the most charming , and lovable women I have ever seen , and their marriage is an ideal one . 
Both are fitted to shine in any society , but neither had the slightest knowledge of domestic and farming details . 
H. did not know how to saddle or harness a horse . 
Everything has failed with them , and though they rise early , and late take rest , and eat the bread of carefulness , they hardly keep their heads above water . 
A young Swiss girl , devoted to them both , works as hard as they do . 
They have one horse , no wagon , some poultry , and a few cows , but no hired man . 
It is the hardest and least ideal struggle that I have ever seen made by educated people . 
They had all their experience to learn , and they have bought it by losses and hardships . 
That they have learnt so much surprises me . 
H. and these two ladies built the upper room and the addition to the house without help . 
He has cropped the land himself , and has learned the difficult art of milking cows . 
The day is one long GRIND , without rest or enjoyment , or the pleasure of chance intercourse with cultivated people . 
The little boys are refined , courteous , childish gentlemen , with love and tenderness to their parents in all their words and actions . 
Never a rough or harsh word is heard within the house . 
But the atmosphere of struggles and difficulties has already told on these infants . 
The story is ended now . 
H. is a prosperous man on one of the sunniest islands of the Pacific , with the devoted Swiss friend as his second wife . 
One of the most painful things in the Western States and Territories is the extinction of childhood . 
The atmosphere in which they are brought up is one of greed , godlessness , and frequently of profanity . 
Consequently these sweet things seem like flowers in a desert . 
Except for love , which here as everywhere raises life into the ideal , this is a wretched existence . 
The poor crops have been destroyed by grasshoppers over and over again , and that talent deified here under the name of smartness has taken advantage of Dr . 
H. in all bargains , leaving him with little except food for his children . 
My time here has passed very delightfully in spite of my regret and anxiety for this interesting family . 
H. on the floor downstairs , and the nights are frosty and chill . 
But morning comes hot and tiresome , and the never ending work is oppressive , and Dr . 
and Mrs. H. should get an afternoon of rest and sleep upstairs , while I undertook to do the work and make something of a cleaning . 
of tomatoes for winter use , and about two tons of squash and pumpkin for the cattle , two of the former weighing lbs . 
I pulled nearly a quarter of an acre of maize , but it was a scanty crop , and the husks were poorly filled . 
I much prefer field work to the scouring of greasy pans and to the wash tub , and both to either sewing or writing . 
Smartness , which consists in over reaching your neighbor in every fashion which is not illegal , is the quality which is held in the greatest repute , and Mammon is the divinity . 
From a generation brought up to worship the one and admire the other little can be hoped . 
The days are now brilliant and the nights sharply frosty . 
People are preparing for the winter . 
The tourists from the East are trooping into Denver , and the surveying parties are coming down from the mountains . 
Snow has fallen on the higher ranges , and my hopes of getting to Estes Park are down at zero . 
The sun was brilliant and the air cool and bracing . 
Neuralgia , inflamed eyes , and a sense of extreme prostration followed , and my acclimatized hosts were somewhat similarly affected . 
The sparkle , the crystalline atmosphere , and the glory of color of yesterday , had all vanished . 
We had borrowed a wagon , but Dr . 
All notions of locality fail me on the prairie , and Dr . 
H. was not much better . 
We took wrong tracks , got entangled among fences , plunged through the deep mud of irrigation ditches , and were despondent . 
It was a miserable drive , sitting on a heap of fodder under the angry sun . 
We never saw man or beast the whole day . 
This is the Chicago Colony , and it is said to be prospering , after some preliminary land swindles . 
It is as uninviting as Fort Collins . 
A two storey house , one of the whitest and most glaring , and without a veranda like all the others , is the St . 
Vrain Hotel , called after the St . 
Vrain River , out of which the ditch is taken which enables Longmount to exist . 
Everything was broiling in the heat of the slanting sun , which all day long had been beating on the unshaded wooden rooms . 
The heat within was more sickening than outside , and black flies covered everything , one's face included . 
Then followed supper , Western fashion , without table cloths , and all the unattached men of Longmount came in and fed silently and rapidly . 
It was a great treat to have tea to drink , as I had not tasted any for a fortnight . 
The landlord is a jovial , kindly man . 
He soon came to my room and asked definitely what I could do if I feared cold , if I could rough it , if I could ride horseback and lope . 
Estes Park and its surroundings are , he says , the most beautiful scenery in Colorado , and it's a real shame , he added , for you not to see it . 
We had hardly sat down to tea when he came , saying You're in luck this time two young men have just come in and are going up to morrow morning . 
Then I fear that the accommodation is as rough as Chalmers's , and that solitude will be impossible . 
We have been strolling in the street every since it grew dark to get the little air which is moving . 
ESTES PARK ! ! ! September . 
I wish I could let those three notes of admiration go to you instead of a letter . 
They mean everything that is rapturous and delightful grandeur , cheerfulness , health , enjoyment , novelty , freedom , etc . 
I have just dropped into the very place I have been seeking , but in everything it exceeds all my dreams . 
There is health in every breath of air I am much better already , and get up to a seven o'clock breakfast without difficulty . 
It is quite comfortable in the fashion that I like . 
I have a log cabin , raised on six posts , all to myself , with a skunk's lair underneath it , and a small lake close to it . 
There is a frost every night , and all day it is cool enough for a roaring fire . 
There has been fresh meat each day since I came , delicious bread baked daily , excellent potatoes , tea and coffee , and an abundant supply of milk like cream . 
I have a clean hay bed with six blankets , and there are neither bugs nor fleas . 
The scenery is the most glorious I have ever seen , and is above us , around us , at the very door . 
People said , however , that it was most difficult of access , and that the season for it was over . 
This is perfection , and all the requisites for health are present , including plenty of horses and grass to ride on . 
The young men who were to escort me seemed very innocent , he said , but I have not arrived at his meaning yet . 
There were many loafers about , and I shrank from going out and mounting in my old Hawaiian riding dress , though Dr . 
and Mrs. H. assured me that I looked quite insignificant and unnoticeable . 
The ride for glory and delight I shall label along with one to Hanalei , and another to Mauna Kea , Hawaii . 
I could have ridden him a hundred miles as easily as thirty . 
We have only been together two days , yet we are firm friends , and thoroughly understand each other . 
I should not require another companion on a long mountain tour . 
Consequently , unless they are broncos , they exercise their intelligence for your advantage , and do their work rather as friends than as machines . 
I soon began not only to feel better , but to be exhilarated with the delightful motion . 
The sun was behind us , and puffs of a cool elastic air came down from the glorious mountains in front . 
We cantered across six miles of prairie , and then reached the beautiful canyon of the St . 
Very fair it was , after the brown and burning plains , and the variety was endless . 
Sometimes from under the cool and bowery shade of the colored tangle we passed into the cool St . 
Long's wonderful peaks , which hitherto had gleamed above the green , now disappeared , to be seen no more for twenty miles . 
I never saw anything so strange as looking back . 
Pitch pines grew out of their crevices , but there was not a vestige of soil . 
Beyond , wall beyond wall of similar construction , and range above range , rose into the blue sky . 
We diverged towards it it mattered not that it was the home , or rather den , of a notorious ruffian and desperado . 
One of my companions had disappeared hours before , the remaining one was a town bred youth . 
I longed to speak to some one who loved the mountains . 
I called the hut a DEN it looked like the den of a wild beast . 
The big dog lay outside it in a threatening attitude and growled . 
The marvel was how his clothes hung together , and on him . 
The scarf round his waist must have had something to do with it . 
He is a man about forty five , and must have been strikingly handsome . 
He has large grey blue eyes , deeply set , with well marked eyebrows , a handsome aquiline nose , and a very handsome mouth . 
His face was smooth shaven except for a dense mustache and imperial . 
Tawny hair , in thin uncared for curls , fell from under his hunter's cap and over his collar . 
One eye was entirely gone , and the loss made one side of the face repulsive , while the other might have been modeled in marble . 
Desperado was written in large letters all over him . 
I almost repented of having sought his acquaintance . 
I inquired about some beavers' paws which were drying , and in a moment they hung on the horn of my saddle . 
As we rode away , for the sun was sinking , he said , courteously , You are not an American . 
I know from your voice that you are a countrywoman of mine . 
I hope you will allow me the pleasure of calling on you . 
Of this unhappy man , who was shot nine months later within two miles of his cabin , I write in the subsequent letters only as he appeared to me . 
His life , without doubt , was deeply stained with crimes and vices , and his reputation for ruffianism was a deserved one . 
It was not until after I left Colorado , not indeed until after his death , that I heard of the worst points of his character . 
He now has a squatter's claim , but makes his living as a trapper , and is a complete child of the mountains . 
His besetting sin is indicated in the verdict pronounced on him by my host When he's sober Jim's a perfect gentleman but when he's had liquor he's the most awful ruffian in Colorado . 
The rushing river was blood red , Long's Peak was aflame , the glory of the glowing heaven was given back from earth . 
Never , nowhere , have I seen anything to equal the view into Estes Park . 
The mountains of the land which is very far off are very near now , but the near is more glorious than the far , and reality than dreamland . 
The mountain fever seized me , and , giving my tireless horse one encouraging word , he dashed at full gallop over a mile of smooth sward at delirious speed . 
Seven men , smoking , were lying about on the floor , a sick man lay on the couch , and a middle aged lady sat at the table writing . 
A corral is a fenced enclosure for cattle . 
ESTES PARK , COLORADO , October . 
Long's Peak , , feet high , blocks up one end of Estes Park , and dwarfs all the surrounding mountains . 
From it on this side rise , snow born , the bright St . 
Vrain , and the Big and Little Thompson . 
By sunlight or moonlight its splintered grey crest is the one object which , in spite of wapiti and bighorn , skunk and grizzly , unfailingly arrests the eyes . 
From it come all storms of snow and wind , and the forked lightnings play round its head like a glory . 
It is one of the noblest of mountains , but in one's imagination it grows to be much more than a mountain . 
It becomes invested with a personality . 
In its caverns and abysses one comes to fancy that it generates and chains the strong winds , to let them loose in its fury . 
The thunder becomes its voice , and the lightnings do it homage . 
The soft winds which hardly rustle the pine needles down here are raging rudely up there round its motionless summit . 
Here under its shadow one learns how naturally nature worship , and the propitiation of the forces of nature , arose in minds which had no better light . 
Long's Peak , the American Matterhorn , as some call it , was ascended five years ago for the first time . 
I thought I should like to attempt it , but up to Monday , when Evans left for Denver , cold water was thrown upon the project . 
It was too late in the season , the winds were likely to be strong , etc . 
but just before leaving , Evans said that the weather was looking more settled , and if I did not get farther than the timber line it would be worth going . 
Mrs. Edwards at once baked bread for three days , steaks were cut from the steer which hangs up conveniently , and tea , sugar , and butter were benevolently added . 
Behind my saddle I carried three pair of camping blankets and a quilt , which reached to my shoulders . 
The horses of the two young men were equally loaded , for we had to prepare for many degrees of frost . 
The slanting sun added fresh beauty every hour . 
The gloom of the dense , ancient , silent forest is to me awe inspiring . 
There no lumberer's axe has ever rung . 
The trees die when they have attained their prime , and stand there , dead and bare , till the fierce mountain winds lay them prostrate . 
The pines grew smaller and more sparse as we ascended , and the last stragglers wore a tortured , warring look . 
Hereafter , when I call up memories of the glorious , the view from this camping ground will come up . 
Looking east , gorges opened to the distant Plains , then fading into purple grey . 
Close to us , in the caverned side of the Peak , was snow that , owing to its position , is eternal . 
Unsaddling and picketing the horses securely , making the beds of pine shoots , and dragging up logs for fuel , warmed us all . 
Jim built up a great fire , and before long we were all sitting around it at supper . 
He was very agreeable as a man of culture as well as a child of nature the desperado was altogether out of sight . 
He was very courteous and even kind to me , which was fortunate , as the young men had little idea of showing even ordinary civilities . 
His master loves him if he loves anything , but in his savage moods ill treats him . 
Ring's devotion never swerves , and his truthful eyes are rarely taken off his master's face . 
He is almost human in his intelligence , and , unless he is told to do so , he never takes notice of any one but Jim . 
One of the young men sang a Latin student's song and two Negro melodies the other Sweet Spirit , hear my Prayer . 
Jim sang one of Moore's melodies in a singular falsetto , and all together sang , The Star spangled Banner and The Red , White , and Blue . 
Then Jim recited a very clever poem of his own composition , and told some fearful Indian stories . 
A group of small silver spruces away from the fire was my sleeping place . 
The artist who had been up there had so woven and interlaced their lower branches as to form a bower , affording at once shelter from the wind and a most agreeable privacy . 
It was thickly strewn with young pine shoots , and these , when covered with a blanket , with an inverted saddle for a pillow , made a luxurious bed . 
The mercury at P. M. was degrees below the freezing point . 
Jim , after a last look at the horses , made a huge fire , and stretched himself out beside it , but Ring lay at my back to keep me warm . 
I could not sleep , but the night passed rapidly . 
I was anxious about the ascent , for gusts of ominous sound swept through the pines at intervals . 
Then wild animals howled , and Ring was perturbed in spirit about them . 
Then it was strange to see the notorious desperado , a red handed man , sleeping as quietly as innocence sleeps . 
Day dawned long before the sun rose , pure and lemon colored . 
Jim involuntarily and reverently uncovered his head , and exclaimed , I believe there is a God ! I felt as if , Parsee like , I must worship . 
It was very cold some water which we crossed was frozen hard enough to bear the horse . 
On my telling him that I traveled unarmed , he could hardly believe it , and adjured me to get a revolver at once . 
I usually dislike bird's eye and panoramic views , but , though from a mountain , this was not one . 
As it is , I am only humiliated by my success , for Jim dragged me up , like a bale of goods , by sheer force of muscle . 
At the Notch the real business of the ascent began . 
To me it was a time of extreme terror . 
Above , the Peak looks nearly vertical for feet and below , the most tremendous precipice I have ever seen descends in one unbroken fall . 
From thence the view is more magnificent even than that from the Notch . 
At the foot of the precipice below us lay a lovely lake , wood embosomed , from or near which the bright St . 
Vrain and other streams take their rise . 
Snowy ranges , one behind the other , extended to the distant horizon , folding in their wintry embrace the beauties of Middle Park . 
Pike's Peak , more than one hundred miles off , lifted that vast but shapeless summit which is the landmark of southern Colorado . 
Giants everywhere reared their splintered crests . 
Let no practical mountaineer be allured by my description into the ascent of Long's Peak . 
Truly terrible as it was to me , to a member of the Alpine Club it would not be a feat worth performing . 
SCALING , not climbing , is the correct term for this last ascent . 
It took one hour to accomplish feet , pausing for breath every minute or two . 
The only foothold was in narrow cracks or on minute projections on the granite . 
A grand , well defined mountain top it is , a nearly level acre of boulders , with precipitous sides all round , the one we came up being the only accessible one . 
It was not possible to remain long . 
There is always water on the Peak , but it was frozen as hard as a rock , and the sucking of ice and snow increases thirst . 
We all suffered severely from the want of water , and the gasping for breath made our mouths and tongues so dry that articulation was difficult , and the speech of all unnatural . 
From the summit were seen in unrivalled combination all the views which had rejoiced our eyes during the ascent . 
I was no longer giddy , and faced the precipice of , feet without a shiver . 
We were driven lower down the mountains than he had intended by impassable tracts of ice , and the ascent was tremendous . 
For the last feet the boulders were of enormous size , and the steepness fearful . 
Water was an object of earnest desire . 
My tongue rattled in my mouth , and I could hardly articulate . 
It is good for one's sympathies to have for once a severe experience of thirst . 
Truly , there was Water , water , everywhere , But not a drop to drink . 
Three times its apparent gleam deceived even the mountaineer's practiced eye , but we found only a foot of glare ice . 
I believe they were really glad to have it so , as one of them was quite finished . 
I retired to my arbor , wrapped myself in a roll of blankets , and was soon asleep . 
It was weird and gloriously beautiful . 
The students were asleep not far off in their blankets with their feet towards the fire . 
His voice trembled , and tears rolled down his cheek . 
Yesterday snow fell on the summit , and it will be inaccessible for eight months to come . 
ESTES PARK , COLORADO TERRITORY , October . 
How time has slipped by I do not know . 
This is a glorious region , and the air and life are intoxicating . 
There's a stranger ! Heave arf a brick at him ! is said by many travelers to express the feeling of the new settlers in these Territories . 
This is not my experience in my cheery mountain home . 
Such as it is , Estes Park is mine . 
But parks innumerable are scattered throughout the mountains , most of them unnamed , and others nicknamed by the hunters or trappers who have made them their temporary resorts . 
Some are bits of meadow a mile long and very narrow , with a small stream , a beaver dam , and a pond made by beaver industry . 
Hundreds of these can only be reached by riding in the bed of a stream , or by scrambling up some narrow canyon till it debouches on the fairy like stretch above . 
Estes Park combines the beauties of all . 
Dismiss all thoughts of the Midland Counties . 
The park is most irregularly shaped , and contains hardly any level grass . 
It is an aggregate of lawns , slopes , and glades , about eighteen miles in length , but never more than two miles in width . 
But in another hundred yards Nature , glorious , unapproachable , inimitable , is herself again , raising one's thoughts reverently upwards to her Creator and ours . 
Grandeur and sublimity , not softness , are the features of Estes Park . 
The lowest part of the Park is , feet high and though the sun is hot during the day , the mercury hovers near the freezing point every night of the summer . 
The soil here , as elsewhere in the neighborhood , is nearly everywhere coarse , grey , granitic dust , produced probably by the disintegration of the surrounding mountains . 
It does not hold water , and is never wet in any weather . 
There are no thaws here The snow mysteriously disappears by rapid evaporation . 
Oats grow , but do not ripen , and , when well advanced , are cut and stacked for winter fodder . 
Potatoes yield abundantly , and , though not very large , are of the best quality , mealy throughout . 
Evans has not attempted anything else , and probably the more succulent vegetables would require irrigation . 
The wild flowers are gorgeous and innumerable , though their beauty , which culminates in July and August , was over before I arrived , and the recent snow flurries have finished them . 
The time between winter and winter is very short , and the flowery growth and blossom of a whole year are compressed into two months . 
Of ferns , after many a long hunt , I have only found the Cystopteris fragilis and the Blechnum spicant , but I hear that the Pteris aquilina is also found . 
Snakes and mosquitoes do not appear to be known here . 
The pines are not imposing , either from their girth or height . 
Their coloring is blackish green , and though they are effective singly or in groups , they are somber and almost funereal when densely massed , as here , along the mountain sides . 
The timber line is at a height of about , feet , and is singularly well defined . 
The most attractive tree I have seen is the silver spruce , Abies Englemanii , near of kin to what is often called the balsam fir . 
Its shape and color are both beautiful . 
My heart warms towards it , and I frequent all the places where I can find it . 
Anyhow , one can hardly believe that the beauty is permanent , and survives the summer heat and the winter cold . 
Evans takes a lumber wagon with four horses over the mountains , and a Colorado engineer would have no difficulty in making a wagon road . 
It is an awful road . 
The only settlers in the park are Griffith Evans , and a married man a mile higher up . 
Mountain Jim's cabin is in the entrance gulch , four miles off , and there is not another cabin for eighteen miles toward the Plains . 
The park is unsurveyed , and the huge tract of mountainous country beyond is almost altogether unexplored . 
Elk hunters occasionally come up and camp out here but the two settlers , who , however , are only squatters , for various reasons are not disposed to encourage such visitors . 
As I intend to make Estes Park my headquarters until the winter sets in , I must make you acquainted with my surroundings and mode of living . 
The Queen Anne mansion is represented by a log cabin made of big hewn logs . 
The chinks should be filled with mud and lime , but these are wanting . 
The roof is formed of barked young spruce , then a layer of hay , and an outer coating of mud , all nearly flat . 
The floors are roughly boarded . 
The living room is about sixteen feet square , and has a rough stone chimney in which pine logs are always burning . 
At one end there is a door into a small bedroom , and at the other a door into a small eating room , at the table of which we feed in relays . 
This opens into a very small kitchen with a great American cooking stove , and there are two bed closets besides . 
Although rude , it is comfortable , except for the draughts . 
The fine snow drives in through the chinks and covers the floors , but sweeping it out at intervals is both fun and exercise . 
There are no heaps or rubbish places outside . 
Near it , on the slope under the pines , is a pretty two roomed cabin , and beyond that , near the lake , is my cabin , a very rough one . 
A small window looks on the lake , and the glories of the sunrises which I see from it are indescribable . 
Neither of my doors has a lock , and , to say the truth , neither will shut , as the wood has swelled . 
Below the house , on the stream which issues from the lake , there is a beautiful log dairy , with a water wheel outside , used for churning . 
Besides this , there are a corral , a shed for the wagon , a room for the hired man , and shelters for horses and weakly calves . 
All these things are necessaries at this height . 
The ranchmen are two Welshmen , Evans and Edwards , each with a wife and family . 
The men are as diverse as they can be . 
He is a splendid shot , an expert and successful hunter , a bold mountaineer , a good rider , a capital cook , and a generally jolly fellow . 
In the early morning , when Long's Peak is red , and the grass crackles with the hoar frost , he arouses me with a cheery thump on my door . 
We're going cattle hunting , will you come ? or , Will you help to drive in the cattle ? You can take your pick of the horses . 
Free hearted , lavish , popular , poor Griff loves liquor too well for his prosperity , and is always tormented by debt . 
He makes lots of money , but puts it into a bag with holes . 
I pay eight dollars a week , which includes the unlimited use of a horse , when one can be found and caught . 
We breakfast at seven on beef , potatoes , tea , coffee , new bread , and butter . 
Two pitchers of cream and two of milk are replenished as fast as they are exhausted . 
Dinner at twelve is a repetition of the breakfast , but with the coffee omitted and a gigantic pudding added . 
Tea at six is a repetition of breakfast . 
There is no change of food . 
The steer which was being killed on my arrival is now being eaten through from head to tail , the meat being hacked off quite promiscuously , without any regard to joints . 
In this dry , rarefied air , the outside of the flesh blackens and hardens , and though the weather may be hot , the carcass keeps sweet for two or three months . 
The bread is super excellent , but the poor wives seem to be making and baking it all day . 
A mile off there is an industrious married settler , and four miles off , in the gulch leading to the park , Mountain Jim , otherwise Mr. Nugent , is posted . 
The party , however , has often been increased by campers , either elk hunters or prospectors for silver or locations , who feed with us and join us in the evening . 
They get little help from Evans , either as to elk or locations , and go away disgusted and unsuccessful . 
Of course , we never get letters or newspapers unless some one rides to Longmount for them . 
Two or three novels and a copy of Our New West are our literature . 
Our latest newspaper is seventeen days old . 
Somehow the park seems to become the natural limit of our interests so far as they appear in conversation at table . 
To be alone in the park from the afternoon till the last glory of the afterglow has faded , with no books but a Bible and Prayer book , is truly delightful . 
I shall not soon forget my first night here . 
It was very dark , and it seemed a long way off . 
Something howled Evans said it was a wolf and owls apparently innumerable hooted incessantly . 
The pole star , exactly opposite my cabin door , burned like a lamp . 
Evans opened the door , lighted a candle , and left me , and I was soon in my hay bed . 
I was frightened that is , afraid of being frightened , it was so eerie but sleep soon got the better of my fears . 
I was awoke by a heavy breathing , a noise something like sawing under the floor , and a pushing and upheaving , all very loud . 
My candle was all burned , and , in truth , I dared not stir . 
They told me that there was a skunk's lair under my cabin , and that they dare not make any attempt to dislodge him for fear of rendering the cabin untenable . 
They have tried to trap him since , but without success , and each night the noisy performance is repeated . 
I think he is sharpening his claws on the under side of my floor , as the grizzlies sharpen theirs upon the trees . 
The odor with which this creature , truly named Mephitis , can overpower its assailants is truly AWFUL . 
We were driven out of the cabin for some hours merely by the passage of one across the corral . 
The bravest man is a coward in its neighborhood . 
Dogs rub their noses on the ground till they bleed when they have touched the fluid , and even die of the vomiting produced by the effluvia . 
The odor can be smelt a mile off . 
If clothes are touched by the fluid they must be destroyed . 
At present its fur is very valuable . 
Several have been killed since I came . 
A shot well aimed at the spine secures one safely , and an experienced dog can kill one by leaping upon it suddenly without being exposed to danger . 
The claws of its fore feet are long and polished . 
Yesterday one was seen rushing from the dairy and was shot . 
Plunk , the big dog , touched it and has to be driven into exile . 
I hope that my skunk will enjoy a quiet spirit so long as we are near neighbors . 
This is surely one of the most entrancing spots on earth . 
Then suddenly into its mirror flash inverted peaks , at first a dawn darker all round . 
This is a new sight , each morning new . 
The majesty and beauty grow on me daily . 
This is the daily miracle of evening , as the blazing peaks in the darkness of Mirror Lake are the miracle of morning . 
Perhaps this scenery is not lovable , but , as if it were a strong stormy character , it has an intense fascination . 
After that we all sit in the living room , and I settle down to write to you , or mend my clothes , which are dropping to pieces . 
We all wash our own clothes , and as my stock is so small , some part of every day has to be spent at the wash tub . 
Evans left for Denver ten days ago , taking his wife and family to the Plains for the winter , and the mirth of our party departed with him . 
Edwards is somber , except when he lies on the floor in the evening , and tells stories of his march through Georgia with Sherman . 
I gave Evans a dollar note to change , and asked him to buy me a horse for my tour , and for three days we have expected him . 
The mail depends on him . 
I have had no letters from you for five weeks , and can hardly curb my impatience . 
I ride or walk three or four miles out on the Longmount trail two or three times a day to look for him . 
Others , for different reasons , are nearly equally anxious . 
After dark we start at every sound , and every time the dogs bark all the able bodied of us turn out en masse . 
Wait for the wagon has become a nearly maddening joke . 
The letter and newspaper fever has seized on every one . 
We have sent at last to Longmount . 
We turned back , galloping down the long hill as fast as two good horses could carry us , and gave the joyful news . 
Later on , Mr. Buchan , one of our usual inmates , returned from Denver with papers , letters for every one but me , and much exciting news . 
The financial panic has spread out West , gathering strength on its way . 
The Denver banks have all suspended business . 
Business is suspended , and everybody , however rich , is for the time being poor . 
The Indians have taken to the war path , and are burning ranches and killing cattle . 
There is a regular scare among the settlers , and wagon loads of fugitives are arriving in Colorado Springs . 
The Indians say , The white man has killed the buffalo and left them to rot on the plains . 
Evans had reached Longmount , and will be here tonight . 
The evening before , after sunset , I saw another novel effect . 
My lake turned a brilliant orange in the twilight , and in its still mirror the mountains were reflected a deep rich blue . 
It is a world of wonders . 
To day we had a great storm with flurries of fine snow and when the clouds rolled up at noon , the Snowy Range and all the higher mountains were pure white . 
Never , surely was a chamber organ compelled to such service . 
A little cask of suspicious appearance was smuggled into the cabin from the wagon , and heightens the hilarity a little , I fear . 
No churlishness could resist Evans's unutterable jollity or the contagion of his hearty laugh . 
He claps people on the back , shouts at them , will do anything for them , and makes a perpetual breeze . 
My kingdom for a horse ! He has not got one for me , and a shadow crossed his face when I spoke of the subject . 
He said he would give me , as interest for it up to November th , a good horse , saddle , and bridle for my proposed journey of miles . 
I was somewhat dismayed , but there was no other course , as the money was gone . 
So we've been driving cattle all day , riding about twenty miles , and fording the Big Thompson about as many times . 
Evans flatters me by saying that I am as much use as another man more than one of our party , I hope , who always avoided the ugly cows . 
I am still here , helping in the kitchen , driving cattle , and riding four or five times a day . 
Such are some of our little varieties . 
You would be amused if you could see our cabin just now . 
There are nine men in the room and three women . 
Three men who have camped in Black Canyon for a week are lying like dogs on the floor . 
They are all over six feet high , immovably solemn , neither smiling at the general hilarity , nor at the absurd changes which are being rung on the harmonium . 
They may be described as clothed only in boots , for their clothes are torn to rags . 
They have neither seen a woman nor slept under a roof for six months . 
The colder weather is bringing the beasts down from the heights . 
I heard both wolves and the mountain lion as I crossed to my cabin last night . 
This afternoon , as I was reading in my cabin , little Sam Edwards ran in , saying , Mountain Jim wants to speak to you . 
Then things came up , with the tyranny they exercise . 
I REALLY need nothing more than this log cabin offers . 
My log house takes me about five minutes to do , and you could eat off the floor , and it needs no lock , as it contains nothing worth stealing . 
With a sort of breezy mountain recklessness in everything , he passes remarkably acute judgments on men and events on women also . 
The children of this house run to him , and when he sits down they climb on his broad shoulders and play with his curls . 
Yet , on the whole , he is a most painful spectacle . 
His magnificent head shows so plainly the better possibilities which might have been his . 
Shall I ever get away ? We were to have had a grand cattle hunt yesterday , beginning at , but the horses were all lost . 
Often out of fifty horses all that are worth anything are marauding , and a day is lost in hunting for them in the canyons . 
The scene of the drive is at a height of , feet , watered by two rapid rivers . 
On the whole , they show a tendency rather to the habits of wild than of domestic cattle . 
Some necessary cruelty is involved in the stockman's business , however humane he may be . 
On this occasion , the whole were driven down for a muster , and for the purpose of branding the calves . 
Four big , badly trained dogs accompanied us . 
It was a ride of nearly thirty miles , and of many hours , one of the most splendid I ever took . 
Emerging from this , we caught sight of a thousand Texan cattle feeding in a valley below . 
The leaders scented us , and , taking fright , began to move off in the direction of the open park , while we were about a mile from and above them . 
A shorter time than it takes to tell it brought us close to and abreast of the surge of cattle . 
It seemed like infantry awaiting the shock of cavalry as we stood as still as our excited horses would allow . 
I rode up to our leader , who received me with much laughter . 
I had not expected to work like a vachero , but so it was , and my Hawaiian experience was very useful . 
It took an hour and a half of time and much patience to gather them all on the other side . 
The bulls were quite easily managed , but the cows with calves , old or young , were most troublesome . 
This kind of thing happened continually . 
There was one very handsome red cow which became quite mad . 
One of the dogs , a young , foolish thing , seeing that the cow was excited , took a foolish pleasure in barking at her , and she was eventually quite infuriated . 
We galloped the last mile and a half in four and a half minutes , reached the cabin just as the snow began to fall , and found strong , hot tea ready . 
In several visits to America I have observed that the Americans are far in advance of us and our colonial kinsmen in their treatment of horses and other animals . 
This was very apparent with regard to this Texan herd . 
There were no stock whips , no needless worrying of the animals in the excitement of sport . 
Any dog seizing a bullock by his tail or heels would have been called off and punished , and quietness and gentleness were the rule . 
This is the usual plan , even where , as in Colorado , the horses are bronchos , and inherit ineradicable vice . 
I never yet saw a horse BULLIED into submission in the United States . 
Snow bound for three days ! I could not write yesterday , it was so awful . 
People gave up all occupation , and talked of nothing but the storm . 
The hunters all kept by the great fire in the living room , only going out to bring in logs and clear the snow from the door and windows . 
After snowing fiercely all day , another foot of it fell in the early night , and , after drifting against my door , blocked me effectually in . 
About midnight the mercury fell to zero , and soon after a gale rose , which lasted for ten hours . 
My window frame is swelled , and shuts , apparently , hermetically and my bed is six feet from it . 
I had gone to sleep with six blankets on , and a heavy sheet over my face . 
Between two and three I was awoke by the cabin being shifted from underneath by the wind , and the sheet was frozen to my lips . 
I put out my hands , and the bed was thickly covered with fine snow . 
Getting up to investigate matters , I found the floor some inches deep in parts in fine snow , and a gust of fine , needle like snow stung my face . 
The bucket of water was solid ice . 
I lay in bed freezing till sunrise , when some of the men came to see if I was alive , and to dig me out . 
They brought a can of hot water , which turned to ice before I could use it . 
I dressed standing in snow , and my brushes , boots , and etceteras were covered with snow . 
When I ran to the house , not a mountain or anything else could be seen , and the snow on one side was drifted higher than the roof . 
The air , as high as one could see , was one white , stinging smoke of snowdrift a terrific sight . 
In the living room , the snow was driving through the chinks , and Mrs. Dewy was shoveling it from the floor . 
Mr. D. 's beard was hoary with frost in a room with a fire all night . 
Evans was lying ill , with his bed covered with snow . 
Some , including a valuable photograph , were irrecoverable . 
The writing book was found , some hours afterwards , under three feet of snow . 
There are tracks of bears and deer close to the house , but no one can hunt in this gale , and the drift is blinding . 
We have been slightly overcrowded in our one room . 
Chess , music , and whist have been resorted to . 
One hunter , for very ennui , has devoted himself to keeping my ink from freezing . 
We all sat in great cloaks and coats , and kept up an enormous fire , with the pitch running out of the logs . 
The isolation is extreme , for we are literally snowed up , and the other settler in the Park and Mountain Jim are both at Denver . 
Late in the evening the storm ceased . 
In some places the ground is bare of snow , while in others all irregularities are leveled , and the drifts are forty feet deep . 
Nature is grand under this new aspect . 
The cold is awful the high wind with the mercury at zero would skin any part exposed to it . 
The men don't like baching , as it is called in the wilds i . 
They washed and ironed their clothes yesterday , and there was an incongruity about the last performance . 
that I shall leave to morrow . 
LONGMOUNT , COLORADO , October . 
We were to have left at but the horses were lost , so it was before we started , the WE being the musical young French Canadian and myself . 
It was a most glorious ride . 
Vrain just at dusk upon the featureless prairies , when we had some trouble in finding Longmount in the dark . 
A hospitable welcome awaited me at this inn , and an English friend came in and spent the evening with me . 
GREAT PLATTE CANYON , October . 
I left Longmount pretty early on Tuesday morning , the day being sad , with the blink of an impending snow storm in the air . 
It is a dreary ride of thirty miles over the low brown plains to Denver , very little settled , and with trails going in all directions . 
My sailing orders were steer south , and keep to the best beaten track , and it seemed like embarking on the ocean without a compass . 
It was first very cold , then very hot , and finally settled down to a fierce east windy cold , difficult to endure . 
It was free and breezy , however , and my horse was companionable . 
Sometimes herds of cattle were browsing on the sun cured grass , then herds of horses . 
They had been three months on the journey from Illinois , and their oxen were so lean and weak that they expected to be another month in reaching Wet Mountain Valley . 
They had buried a child en route , had lost several oxen , and were rather out of heart . 
Owing to their long isolation and the monotony of the march they had lost count of events , and seemed like people of another planet . 
That night they must have been nearly frozen , camping out in the deep snow in the fierce wind . 
I met afterwards , lean Texan cattle , herded by three wild looking men on horseback , followed by two wagons containing women , children , and rifles . 
They had traveled , miles . 
Then I saw two prairie wolves , like jackals , with gray fur , cowardly creatures , which fled from me with long leaps . 
The windy cold became intense , and for the next eleven miles I rode a race with the coming storm . 
There the great braggart city lay spread out , brown and treeless , upon the brown and treeless plain , which seemed to nourish nothing but wormwood and the Spanish bayonet . 
Then with gusts of wind the snowstorm began , and I had to trust entirely to Birdie's sagacity for finding Evans's shanty . 
She had been there once before only , but carried me direct to it over rough ground and trenches . 
My budget of news from the park had to be brought out constantly , and I wondered how much I had to tell . 
It was past eleven when we breakfasted the next morning . 
It was cloudless with an intense frost , and six inches of snow on the ground , and everybody thought it too cold to get up and light the fire . 
Denver is no longer the Denver of Hepworth Dixon . 
Peltry shops abound , and sportsman , hunter , miner , teamster , emigrant , can be completely rigged out at fifty different stores . 
Asthmatic people are there in such numbers as to warrant the holding of an asthmatic convention of patients cured and benefited . 
It stands at a height of , feet , on an enormous plain , and has a most glorious view of the Rocky Range . 
I should hate even to spend a week there . 
The sight of those glories so near and yet out of reach would make me nearly crazy . 
Denver is at present the terminus of the Kansas Pacific Railroad . 
It has also had the enterprise , by means of another narrow gauge railroad , to push its way right up into the mining districts near Gray's Peak . 
A large number of Indians added to the harlequin appearance of the Denver streets the day I was there . 
The Indian stores and fur stores and fur depots interested me most . 
The crowds in the streets , perhaps owing to the snow on the ground , were almost solely masculine . 
I only saw five women the whole day . 
Town tired and confused me , and in spite of Mrs. Evans's kind hospitality , I was glad when a man brought Birdie at nine yesterday morning . 
It was a lovely Indian summer day , so warm that the snow on the ground looked an incongruity . 
I passed and met wagons frequently , and picked up a muff containing a purse with dollars in it , which I afterwards had the great pleasure of restoring to the owner . 
Several times I crossed the narrow track of the quaint little Rio Grande Railroad , so that it was a very cheerful ride . 
RANCH , PLUM CREEK , October . 
It is a very satisfactory arrangement . 
The house was the most pretentious I have yet seen , being papered and carpeted , and there were two hired girls . 
She had been trying the camp cure for three months , and was then on her way home . 
She was consumptive and frail in strength , but a very attractive person , and her stories of the perils and limitation of her early life at Fort Laramie were very interesting . 
Still I wearied , as I had arrived early in the afternoon , and could not out of politeness retire and write to you . 
At meals the three hired men and two hired girls eat with the family . 
I soon found that there was a screw loose in the house , and was glad to leave early the next morning , although it was obvious that a storm was coming on . 
All life was in a shroud , all work and travel suspended . 
There was not a foot mark or wheel mark . 
There was nothing to be afraid of and though I can't exactly say that I enjoyed the ride , yet there was the pleasant feeling of gaining health every hour . 
The scene was a solemn one , and reminded me of a description in Whittier's Snow Bound . 
All the stock came round the cabin with mute appeals for shelter . 
Sheep dogs got in , and would not be kicked out . 
Men went out muffled up , and came back shivering and shaking the snow from their feet . 
The churn was put by the stove . 
And still the snow fell softly , and the air and earth were silent . 
It is difficult to make this anything of a letter . 
The observing faculties are developed , and the reflective lie dormant . 
That night on which I last wrote was the coldest I have yet felt . 
I pulled the rag carpet from the floor and covered myself with it , but could not get warm . 
The sun rose gloriously on a shrouded earth . 
Barns , road , shrubs , fences , river , lake , all lay under the glittering snow . 
It was light and powdery , and sparkled like diamonds . 
Not a breath of wind stirred , there was not a sound . 
I had to wait till a passing horseman had broken the track , but soon after I set off into the new , shining world . 
I soon lost the horseman's foot marks , but kept on near the road by means of the innumerable foot prints of birds and ground squirrels , which all went in one direction . 
They were old Country folk , and I stayed too long with them . 
After leaving them I rode twelve miles , but it was bad traveling , from the balling of the snow and the difficulty of finding the track . 
There was a fearful loneliness about it . 
The track was untrodden , and I saw neither man nor beast . 
The sky became densely clouded , and the outlook was awful . 
The great Divide of the Arkansas was in front , looming vaguely through a heavy snow cloud , and snow began to fall , not in powder , but in heavy flakes . 
Mr. Perry was away , but his daughter , a very bright looking , elegantly dressed girl , invited me to dine and remain . 
It did look very grand as we entered it by a narrow pass guarded by two buttes , or isolated upright masses of rock , bright red , and about feet in height . 
The pines were very large , and the narrow canyons which came down on the park gloomily magnificent . 
Perry's Park is one of the great cattle raising ranches in Colorado . 
The necessity for irrigation , however , will always bar the way to an indefinite extension of the area of arable farms . 
The prospects of cattle raising seem at present practically unlimited . 
In Colorado had , , valued at L s . 
per head , about half of which were imported as young beasts from Texas . 
Mr. Perry devotes himself mainly to the breeding of graded shorthorn bulls , which he sells when young for L per head . 
The cattle run at large upon the prairies each animal being branded , they need no herding , and are usually only mustered , counted , and the increase branded in the summer . 
Some of the wealthier stockmen take their best lots to Chicago themselves . 
The Colorado cattle are either pure Texan or Spanish , or crosses between the Texan and graded shorthorns . 
They are nearly all very inferior animals , being bony and ragged . 
The herds mix on the vast plains at will along the Arkansas valley , roam about with the freedom of buffaloes , and of this number about , are exported every fall . 
Where cattle are killed for use in the mining districts their average price is three cents per lb . 
These pure Texans , the old Spanish breed , weigh from to , pounds , and the crossed Colorado cattle from , to , pounds . 
The Cattle King of the State is Mr. Iliff , of South Platte , who owns nine ranches , with runs of , acres , and , cattle . 
For this enormous herd men are employed in summer , about in winter , and horses . 
In the rare case of a severe and protracted snowstorm the cattle get a little hay . 
Owners of , , , and , head of cattle are quite common in Colorado . 
Sheep are now raised in the State to the extent of half a million , and a chronic feud prevails between the sheep men and the cattle men . 
Sheep raising is said to be a very profitable business , but its risks and losses are greater , owing to storms , while the outlay for labor , dipping materials , etc . 
The best flocks yield an average of seven pounds . 
The shearing season , which begins in early June , lasts about six weeks . 
It is not likely that sheep raising will attain anything of the prominence which cattle raising is likely to assume . 
The potato beetle scare is not of much account in the country of the potato beetle . 
It was so odd and novel to have a beautiful bed room , hot water , and other luxuries . 
Miss P. gave me a pair of men's socks to draw on over my boots , and I set out tolerably early , and broke my own way for two miles . 
Then a single wagon had passed , making a legible track for thirty miles , otherwise the snow was pathless . 
Everything was buried under a glittering shroud of snow . 
The babble of the streams was bound by fetters of ice . 
No branches creaked in the still air . 
No one passed or met me . 
There were no cabins near or far . 
The only sound was the crunch of the snow under Birdie's feet . 
We came to a river over which some logs were laid with some young trees across them . 
Birdie put one foot on this , then drew it back and put another on , then smelt the bridge noisily . 
Persuasions were useless she only smelt , snorted , held back , and turned her cunning head and looked at me . 
It was useless to argue the point with so sagacious a beast . 
Afterwards I heard that the bridge was dangerous . 
She is the queen of ponies , and is very gentle , though she has not only wild horse blood , but is herself the wild horse . 
She is always cheerful and hungry , never tired , looks intelligently at everything , and her legs are like rocks . 
When I saddle her a gentle slap on her side , or any slight start which makes her cease to hold her breath , puts it all right . 
She is quite a companion , and bathing her back , sponging her nostrils , and seeing her fed after my day's ride , is always my first care . 
At last I reached a log cabin where I got a feed for us both and further directions . 
The rest of the day's ride was awful enough . 
There , in unspeakable solitude , lay a frozen lake . 
I found that owing to the depth of the snow I had only ridden fifteen miles in eight and a half hours , and must look about for a place to sleep in . 
The eastern sky was unlike anything I ever saw before . 
It had been chrysoprase , then it turned to aquamarine , and that to the bright full green of an emerald . 
Unless I am color blind , this is true . 
Then suddenly the whole changed , and flushed with the pure , bright , rose color of the afterglow . 
Though the house was very poor , it was made attractive by ornaments , and the simple , loving , German ways gave it a sweet home atmosphere . 
My room was reached by a ladder , but I had it to myself and had the luxury of a basin to wash in . 
Under the kindly treatment of the two women my feet came to themselves , but with an amount of pain that almost deserved the name of torture . 
The next morning was gray and sour , but brightened and warmed as the day went on . 
Returning about six miles , I took another track , and rode about eight miles without seeing a creature . 
The track then passed down a valley close under some ghastly peaks , wild , cold , awe inspiring scenery . 
I got off , put on a long skirt , and rode sidewise , though the settlement scarcely looked like a place where any deference to prejudices was necessary . 
A queer embryo looking place it is , out on the bare Plains , yet it is rising and likely to rise , and has some big hotels much resorted to . 
It has a fine view of the mountains , specially of Pike's Peak , but the celebrated springs are at Manitou , three miles off , in really fine scenery . 
To me no place could be more unattractive than Colorado Springs , from its utter treelessness . 
I found the s living in a small room which served for parlor , bedroom , and kitchen , and combined the comforts of all . 
It is inhabited also by two prairie dogs , a kitten , and a deerhound . 
Mrs. walked with me to the boarding house where I slept , and we sat some time in the parlor talking with the landlady . 
Soon the door was half closed , and some one came to it , saying rapidly , Shields , quick , a candle ! and then there were movings about in the room . 
All this time , and during the movings in the room , I saw two large white feet sticking up at the end of the bed . 
I could not sleep for the bitter cold and the sound of the sobs and groans of the bereaved brother . 
The next day the landlady , in a fashionably made black dress , was bustling about , proud of the prospective arrival of a handsome coffin . 
It was buried in the afternoon , and from the looks of the brother , who continued to sob and moan , his end cannot be far off . 
Several friends of Miss Kingsley called on me she is much remembered and beloved . 
There are no real difficulties . 
It is a splendid life for health and enjoyment . 
All my luggage being in a pack , and my conveyance being a horse , we can go anywhere where we can get food and shelter . 
GREAT GORGE OF THE MANITOU , October . 
This is a highly picturesque place , with several springs , still and effervescing , the virtues of which were well known to the Indians . 
Near it are places , the names of which are familiar to every one the Garden of the Gods , Glen Eyrie , Pike's Peak , Monument Park , and the Ute Pass . 
It has two or three immense hotels , and a few houses picturesquely situated . 
There is a rushing torrent in a valley , with mountains , covered with snow and rising to a height of nearly , feet , overhanging it . 
It is grand and awful , and has a strange , solemn beauty like death . 
And the Snowy Mountains are pierced by the torrent which has excavated the Ute Pass , by which , to morrow , I hope to go into the higher regions . 
But all may be lost for want of a horseshoe nail . 
One of Birdie's shoes is loose , and not a nail is to be got here , or can be got till I have ridden for ten miles up the Pass . 
Birdie amuses every one with her funny ways . 
She always follows me closely , and to day got quite into a house and pushed the parlor door open . 
Her face is cunning and pretty , and she makes a funny , blarneying noise when I go up to her . 
The men at all the stables make a fuss with her , and call her Pet . 
She gallops up and down hill , and never stumbles even on the roughest ground , or requires even a touch with a whip . 
The weather is again perfect , with a cloudless sky and a hot sun , and the snow is all off the plains and lower valleys . 
Many places in this neighborhood are also vulgarized by grotesque names . 
I put Birdie up at a stable , and as there was no place to put myself up but this huge hotel , I came here to have a last taste of luxury . 
There are seven medicinal springs . 
It is strange to have the luxuries of life in my room . 
It will be only the fourth night in Colorado that I have slept on anything better than hay or straw . 
I am glad that there are so few inns . 
As it is , I get a good deal of insight into the homes and modes of living of the settlers . 
I left the great Manitou at ten yesterday . 
Birdie , who was loose in the stable , came trotting down the middle of it when she saw me for her sugar and biscuits . 
No nails could be got , and her shoe was hanging by two , which doomed me to a foot's pace and the dismal clink of a loose shoe for three hours . 
There was not a cloud on the bright blue sky the whole day , and though it froze hard in the shade , it was summer heat in the sun . 
A narrow pass it is , with barely room for the torrent and the wagon road which has been blasted out of its steep sides . 
And there , for a mile or two in a sheltered spot , owing to the more southern latitude , the everlasting northern pine met the trees of other climates . 
And above them towered the toothy peaks of the glittering mountains , rising in pure white against the sunny blue . 
Grand ! glorious ! sublime ! but not lovable . 
I would give all for the luxurious redundance of one Hilo gulch , or for one day of those soft dreamy skies whose very tears are balm . 
I saw a beautiful white fox , several skunks , some chipmunks and gray squirrels , owls , crows , and crested blue jays . 
As the sun was getting low I reached Bergens Park , which was to put me out of conceit with Estes Park . 
Never ! It is long and featureless , and its immediate surroundings are mean . 
It reminded me in itself of some dismal Highland strath Glenshee , possibly . 
I looked at it with special interest , as it was the place at which Miss Kingsley had suggested that I might remain . 
The evening was glorious , and the distant views were very fine . 
A stream fringed with cotton wood runs through the park low ranges come down upon it . 
Bergens Park had been bought by Dr . 
Bell , of London , but its present occupant is Mr. Thornton , an English gentleman , who has a worthy married Englishman as his manager . 
Mr. Thornton is building a good house , and purposes to build other cabins , with the intention of making the park a resort for strangers . 
I thought of the blue hollow lying solitary at the foot of Long's Peak , and rejoiced that I had happened into it . 
The cabin is long , low , mud roofed , and very dark . 
The middle place is full of raw meat , fowls , and gear . 
They put up a sheet for a partition , and made me a shake down on the gravel floor of this room . 
Ten hired men sat down to meals with us . 
every man must begin life here . 
Seven large dogs three of them with cats upon their backs are usually warming themselves at the fire . 
TWIN ROCK , SOUTH FORK OF THE PLATTE , November . 
I did not leave Mr. Thornton's till ten , because of the slipperiness . 
I did not enjoy yesterday's ride . 
I was both tired and rheumatic , and Birdie was not so sprightly as usual . 
I saw nothing the whole way but a mule lately dead lying by the road . 
A truly pleasing , superior looking woman placed me in a rocking chair would not let me help her otherwise than by rocking the cradle , and made me feel at home . 
The room , though it serves them and their two children for kitchen , parlor , and bed room , is the pattern of brightness , cleanliness , and comfort . 
They discourage me much about the route which Governor Hunt has projected for me . 
They think that it is impassable , owing to snow , and that another storm is brewing . 
I have ridden miles since I wrote last . 
On leaving Twin Rock on Saturday I had a short day's ride to Colonel Kittridge's cabin at Oil Creek , where I spent a quiet Sunday with agreeable people . 
The ride was all through parks and gorges , and among pine clothed hills , about , feet high , with Pike's Peak always in sight . 
The K's cabin was very small and lonely , and the life seemed a hard grind for an educated and refined woman . 
There were snow flurries after I arrived , but the first Sunday of November was as bright and warm as June , and the atmosphere had resumed its exquisite purity . 
Three peaks of Pike's Peak are seen from Oil Creek , above the nearer hills , and by them they tell the time . 
We had been in the evening shadows for half an hour before those peaks ceased to be transparent gold . 
I rode the twelve miles back to Twin Rock , and then went on , a kindly teamster , who was going in the same direction , taking my pack . 
I must explain that every mile I have traveled since leaving Colorado Springs has taken me farther and higher into the mountains . 
There I found the ranch to which I had been recommended , the quarters of a great hunter named Link , which much resembled a good country inn . 
I had hardly come in when a very pleasant German lady , whom I met at Manitou , with three gentlemen , arrived , and we were as sociable as people could be . 
We had a splendid though rude supper . 
The miner said he must speak the truth , the hunter was directing me over a pass where there were five feet of snow , and no trail . 
Mr. Link said he was the oldest hunter and settler in the district , and he could not cross any of the trails in snow . 
And so they went on . 
The upshot of the whole you shall have in my next letter . 
HALL'S GULCH , COLORADO , November . 
It was another cloudless morning , one of the many here on which one awakes early , refreshed , and ready to enjoy the fatigues of another day . 
In our sunless , misty climate you do not know the influence which persistent fine weather exercises on the spirits . 
I have been ten months in almost perpetual sunshine , and now a single cloudy day makes me feel quite depressed . 
I did not leave till , because of the slipperiness , and shortly after starting turned off into the wilderness on a very dim trail . 
He was the only traveler I saw in a day of nearly twelve hours . 
I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of that ride . 
I concentrated all my faculties of admiration and of locality , for truly the track was a difficult one . 
I sometimes thought it deserved the bad name given to it at Link's . 
I have not seen anything hitherto so thoroughly wild and unlike the rest of these parts . 
Mountains they looked not of this earth , but such as one sees in dreams alone , the blessed ranges of the land which is very far off . 
With us the damp , the chill , the gloom With them the sunset's rosy bloom . 
The dimness of earth with me , the light of heaven with them . 
The effect of the combination of winter and summer was singular . 
Valley and canyon were passed , the flaming ranges were left behind , the upper altitudes became grim and mysterious . 
I crossed a lake on the ice , and then came on a park surrounded by barren contorted hills , overtopped by snow mountains . 
All these streams become bigger as you draw nearer to their source , and shortly the trail disappeared in a broad rapid river , which we forded twice . 
The trail was very difficult to recover . 
As darkness came on I began to fear that I had confused the cabin to which I had been directed with the rocks . 
Her husband had gone to the Plains , yet she , with two infant children , was living there in perfect security . 
Two pedlars , who were peddling their way down from the mines , came in for a night's shelter soon after I arrived ill looking fellows enough . 
They admired Birdie in a suspicious fashion , and offered to swop their pack horse for her . 
I had before been offered dollars for her . 
I was obliged to sleep with the mother and children , and the pedlars occupied a room within ours . 
It was hot and airless . 
The cabin was papered with the Phrenological Journal , and in the morning I opened my eyes on the very best portrait of Dr . 
Candlish I ever saw , and grieved truly that I should never see that massive brow and fantastic face again . 
Mrs. Link was an educated and very intelligent young woman . 
The pedlars were Irish Yankees , and the way in which they traded was as amusing as Sam Slick . 
They not only wanted to swop my pony , but to trade my watch . 
They trade their souls , I know . 
There was another dispute about my route . 
It was the most critical day of my journey . 
The pedlars insisted that I could not get through , for the road was not broken . 
Mrs. L. thought I could , and advised me to try , so I saddled Birdie and rode away . 
More than half of the day was far from enjoyable . 
The morning was magnificent , but the light too dazzling , the sun too fierce . 
As soon as I got out I felt as if I should drop off the horse . 
My large handkerchief kept the sun from my neck , but the fierce heat caused soul and sense , brain and eye , to reel . 
I never saw or felt the like of it . 
I suffered so from nausea , exhaustion , and pains from head to foot , that I felt as if I must lie down in the snow . 
It may have been partly the early stage of soroche , or mountain sickness . 
We plodded on for four hours , snow all round , and nothing else to be seen but an ocean of glistening peaks against that sky of infuriated blue . 
Earlier , before the snow became so deep , I passed the last great haunt of the magnificent mountain bison , but , unfortunately , saw nothing but horns and bones . 
Two months ago Mr. Link succeeded in separating a calf from the herd , and has partially domesticated it . 
It is a very ugly thing at seven months old , with a thick beard , and a short , thick , dark mane on its heavy shoulders . 
It makes a loud grunt like a pig . 
It can outrun their fastest horse , and it sometimes leaps over the high fence of the corral , and takes all the milk of five cows . 
The snow grew seriously deep . 
Birdie fell thirty times , I am sure . 
She seemed unable to keep up at all , so I was obliged to get off and stumble along in her footmarks . 
The trail had ceased it was only one of those hunter's tracks which continually mislead one . 
The getting through the snow was awful work . 
I think we accomplished a mile in something over two hours . 
Its chief center is the rough mining town of Fairplay , but there are rumors of great mineral wealth in various quarters . 
The region has been rushed , and mining camps have risen at Alma and elsewhere , so lawless and brutal that vigilance committees are forming as a matter of necessity . 
A great many people come up here in the summer . 
The rarefied air produces great oppression on the lungs , accompanied with bleeding . 
It is said that you can tell a new arrival by seeing him go about holding a blood stained handkerchief to his mouth . 
A horseman shortly joined me and rode with me , got me a fresh horse , and accompanied me for ten miles . 
He was a picturesque figure and rode a very good horse . 
He wore a big slouch hat , from under which a number of fair curls hung nearly to his waist . 
His beard was fair , his eyes blue , and his complexion ruddy . 
There was nothing sinister in his expression , and his manner was respectful and frank . 
He was dressed in a hunter's buckskin suit ornamented with beads , and wore a pair of exceptionally big brass spurs . 
His saddle was very highly ornamented . 
What was unusual was the number of weapons he carried . 
Besides a rifle laid across his saddle and a pair of pistols in the holsters , he carried two revolvers and a knife in his belt , and a carbine slung behind him . 
I found him what is termed good company . 
He told me a great deal about the country and its wild animals , with some hunting adventures , and a great deal about Indians and their cruelty and treachery . 
All this time , having crossed South Park , we were ascending the Continental Divide by what I think is termed the Breckenridge Pass , on a fairly good wagon road . 
We stopped at a cabin , where the woman seemed to know my companion , and , in addition to bread and milk , produced some venison steaks . 
, and saw snow born streams starting within a quarter of a mile from each other , one for the Colorado and the Pacific , the other for the Platte and the Atlantic . 
Here I wished the hunter good bye , and reluctantly turned north east . 
It was not wise to go up the Divide at all , and it was necessary to do it in haste . 
His life has since been mainly devoted to a search for this child , and to killing Indians wherever he can find them . 
The road ascended to a height of , feet , and from thence I looked my last at the lonely , uplifted prairie sea . 
As it was , I did not see a creature . 
It was four when I left South Park , and between those mountain walls and under the pines it soon became quite dark , a darkness which could be felt . 
The snow which had melted in the sun had re frozen , and was one sheet of smooth ice . 
It was unutterably dark , and all these operations had to be performed by the sense of touch only . 
The pines were very dense , and sighed and creaked mournfully in the severe frost , and there were other EERIE noises not easy to explain . 
They accounted for the disorder by the building operations . 
A horrible meal was served dirty , greasy , disgusting . 
It was their camp fire which I had seen on the hill side . 
They neither know how to hold their tongues or to carry their personal pretensions . 
An American is nationally assumptive , an Englishman personally so . 
He took no notice of me till something passed which showed him I was English , when his manner at once changed into courtesy , and his drawl was shortened by a half . 
I cannot think why Englishmen put on these broad , mouthing tones , and give so many personal details . 
So , I slept there on a shake down , with the stars winking overhead through the roof , and the mercury showing degrees of frost . 
Last night , however , I took it out , cleaned and oiled it , and laid it under my pillow , resolving to keep awake all night . 
I slept as soon as I lay down , and never woke till the bright morning sun shone through the roof , making me ridicule my own fears and abjure pistols for ever . 
It turns one's blood cold only to think that where I travel in perfect security , only a short time ago men were being shot like skunks . 
At the mining towns up above this nobody is thought anything of who has not killed a man i . 
Things up there are just in that initial state which desperadoes love . 
Nearly all the shooting affrays arise from the most trivial causes in saloons and bar rooms . 
The deeper quarrels , arising from jealousy or revenge , are few , and are usually about some woman not worth fighting for . 
They git in a few hours . 
When I said I spent last night at Hall's Gulch there was quite a chorus of exclamations . 
My host there , they all said , would be strung before long . 
Did I know that a man was strung there yesterday ? Had I not seen him hanging ? He was on the big tree by the house , they said . 
Certainly , had I known what a ghastly burden that tree bore , I would have encountered the ice and gloom of the gulch rather than have slept there . 
They then told me a horrid tale of crime and violence . 
It seems , however , to have been merely a pretext for getting rid of him , for it was hardly a crime of which even Lynch law could take cognizance . 
He was overpowered by numbers , and , with circumstances of great horror , was tried and strung on that tree within an hour . 
Public opinion approved this execution , regarding it as a fitting retribution for a series of crimes . 
I left the place this morning at ten , and have had a very pleasant day , for the hills shut out the hot sun . 
I only rode twenty two miles , for the difficulty of riding on ice was great , and there is no blacksmith within thirty five miles of Hall's Gulch . 
I met two freighters just after I left , who gave me the unwelcome news that there were thirty miles of ice between that and Denver . 
You'll have a tough trip , they said . 
The road runs up and down hill , walled in along with a rushing river by high mountains . 
The scenery is very grand , but I hate being shut into these deep gorges , and always expect to see some startling object moving among the trees . 
I met no one the whole day after passing the teams except two men with a pack jack , Birdie hates jacks , and rears and shies as soon as she sees one . 
It was enjoyment also in itself to get out of the deep chasm in which I had been immured all day . 
It is a pleasant two story log house , not only chinked but lined with planed timber . 
Each room has a great open chimney with logs burning in it there are pretty engravings on the walls , and baskets full of creepers hanging from the ceiling . 
This is the first settler's house I have been in in which the ornamental has had any place . 
There is a door to each room , the oak chairs are bright with rubbing , and the floor , though unplaned , is so clean that one might eat off it . 
The table is clean and abundant , and the mother and daughter , though they do all the work , look as trim as if they did none , and actually laugh heartily . 
The ranchman neither allows drink to be brought into the house nor to be drunk outside , and on this condition only he keeps travelers . 
The freighters come in to supper quite well washed , and though twelve of them slept in the kitchen , by nine o'clock there was not a sound . 
This freighting business is most profitable . 
I think that the charge is three cents per pound from Denver to South Park , and there much of the freight is transferred to pack jacks and carried up to the mines . 
A railroad , however , is contemplated . 
The buckets are all polished oak , with polished brass bands the kitchen utensils are bright as rubbing can make them and , more wonderful still , the girls black their boots . 
Blacking usually is an unused luxury , and frequently is not kept in houses . 
My boots have only been blacked once during the last two months . 
In Colorado whisky is significant of all evil and violence and is the cause of most of the shooting affrays in the mining camps . 
There are few moderate drinkers it is seldom taken except to excess . 
People say that on coming from the Eastern States they hardly realize at first the security in which they live . 
There is no danger and no fear . 
But the truth of the proverbial saying , There is no God west of the Missouri is everywhere manifest . 
The almighty dollar is the true divinity , and its worship is universal . 
Smartness is the quality thought most of . 
The boy who gets on by cheating at his lessons is praised for being a smart boy , and his satisfied parents foretell that he will make a smart man . 
Smartness is but the initial stage of swindling , and the clever swindler who evades or defines the weak and often corruptly administered laws of the States excites unmeasured admiration among the masses . 
I am copying this letter in the city of San Francisco , and regretfully add a strong emphasis to what I have written above . 
The best and most thoughtful among Americans would endorse these remarks with shame and pain . 
From thence there was a wonderful view through the rolling Foot Hills and over the gray brown plains to Denver . 
The Americans will never solve the Indian problem till the Indian is extinct . 
The only difference between the savage and the civilized Indian is that the latter carries firearms and gets drunk on whisky . 
To get rid of the Injuns is the phrase used everywhere . 
One of the surest agents in their destruction is vitriolized whisky . 
The phrases biggest in the world , finest in the world , are on all lips . 
Unless President Hayes is a strong man they will soon come to boast that their government is composed of the biggest scoundrels in the world . 
As I rode into Denver and away from the mountains the view became glorious , as range above range crowned with snow came into sight . 
The Range looked lovelier and sublimer than when I first saw it from Greeley , all spiritualized in the wonderful atmosphere . 
Evans brought the unwelcome news that the goodly fellowship was broken up . 
The Dewys and Mr. Waller were in Denver , and the house was dismantled , Mr. and Mrs. Edwards alone remaining , who were , however , expecting me back . 
Except for the church going there were few perceptible signs of Sunday in Denver , which was full of rowdies from the mountain mining camps . 
You can hardly imagine the delight of joining in those grand old prayers after so long a deprivation . 
The Te Deum sounded heavenly in its magnificence but the heat was so tremendous that it was hard to warstle through the day . 
They say that they have similar outbreaks of solar fury all through the winter . 
Passing by a bare , desolate looking cemetery , I asked a sad looking woman who was leaning on the gate if she could direct me to Golden City . 
I repeated the question twice before I got an answer , and then , though easily to be accounted for , it was wide of the mark . 
I fear you will grow tired of the details of these journal letters . 
To be without a horse in these mountains is to be reduced to complete helplessness . 
, at a height of , feet . 
A single day took me from the heat of summer into the intense cold of winter . 
Golden City by daylight showed its meanness and belied its name . 
It is ungraded , with here and there a piece of wooden sidewalk , supported on posts , up to which you ascend by planks . 
Brick , pine , and log houses are huddled together , every other house is a saloon , and hardly a woman is to be seen . 
The young lady who waited at breakfast said , I've been thinking about you , and I'm certain sure you're an authoress . 
The day , as usual , was glorious . 
Golden City rang with oaths and curses , especially at the depot . 
Americans are given over to the most atrocious swearing , and the blasphemous use of our Savior's name is peculiarly revolting . 
Unfortunately , its sides have been almost entirely denuded of timber , mining operations consuming any quantity of it . 
I have never seen such churlishness and incivility as in the officials of that railroad and the state lines which connect with it , or met with such preposterous charges . 
The singular grandeur cannot be described . 
A few stunted pines and cedars , spared because of their inaccessiblity , hung here and there out of the rifts . 
Sometimes the walls of the abyss seemed to meet overhead , and then widening out , the rocks assumed fantastic forms , all grandeur , sublimity , and almost terror . 
After two hours of this , the track came to an end , and the canyon widened sufficiently for a road , all stones , holes , and sidings . 
The driver never spoke without an oath , and though two ladies were passengers , cursed his splendid horses the whole time . 
Formerly , even the most profane men intermitted their profanity in the presence of women , but they have changed all that . 
Every one I saw up there seemed in a bad temper . 
I suspect that all their smart tricks in mining shares had gone wrong . 
All the smaller houses are shored up with young pines on one side , to prevent them from being blown away by the fierce gusts which sweep the canyon . 
It is the only town I have seen in America to which the epithet picturesque could be applied . 
But truly , seated in that deep hollow in the cold and darkness , it is in a terrible situation , with the alpine heights towering round it . 
I arrived at three , but its sun had set , and it lay in deep shadow . 
The amusing answer came back , If it's the English lady traveling in the mountains , she can have a horse , but not any one else . 
In five minutes the horse was at the door , with a clumsy two horned side saddle , and I started at once for the upper regions . 
It was an exciting ride , much spiced with apprehension . 
The evening shadows had darkened over Georgetown , and I had , feet to climb , or give up Green Lake . 
I shall forget many things , but never the awfulness and hugeness of the scenery . 
I went up a steep track by Clear Creek , then a succession of frozen waterfalls in a widened and then narrowed valley , whose frozen sides looked , feet high . 
That is the region of enormous mineral wealth in silver . 
Many a heart has been broken for the few finds which have been made along those hill sides . 
All the ledges are covered with charred stumps , a picture of desolation , where nature had made everything grand and fair . 
But even from all this I turned . 
But the goal was reached , and none too soon . 
From the gloom and chill below I had come up into the pure air and sunset light , and the glory of the unprofaned works of God . 
But the sun was fast going down , and even as I gazed upon the wonderful vision the glory vanished , and the peaks became sad and grey . 
The view , as long as I could see it , was quite awful . 
It looked as if one could not reach Georgetown without tumbling down a precipice . 
Precipices there were in plenty along the road , skirted with ice to their verge . 
It was the only ride which required nerve that I have taken in Colorado , and it was long after dark when I returned from my exploit . 
I left Georgetown at eight the next morning on the Idaho stage , in glorious cold . 
In this dry air it is quite warm if there are only a few degrees of frost . 
For economy I dined in a restaurant in Golden City , and at three remounted my trusty Birdie , intending to arrive here that night . 
The adventure I met with is almost too silly to tell . 
When I left Golden City it was a brilliant summer afternoon , and not too hot . 
The afterglow , seen to perfection on the open plain , was wonderful . 
I rode on , hour after hour , in the darkness and solitude , the prairie all round and a firmament of frosty stars overhead . 
The prairie wolf howled now and then , and occasionally the lowing of cattle gave me hope of human proximity . 
But there was nothing but the lone wild plain . 
You can hardly imagine the longing to see a light , to hear a voice , the intensely eerie feeling of being alone in that vast solitude . 
You can form no idea of what the glory on the Plains is just before sunrise . 
The best laid schemes of men and mice gang aft agley , and my exploits came to an untimely end to day . 
In all that weary land there was no shadow of a great rock under which to rest . 
A ride of fifteen miles across the prairie brought me here early in the afternoon , but of the budget of letters which I expected there is not one . 
Birdie looks in such capital condition that my host here can hardly believe that she has traveled over miles . 
I am feeling the pinch of poverty rather severely . 
When I have paid my bill here I shall have exactly twenty six cents left . 
The financial straits are very serious , and the unreasoning panic which has set in makes them worse . 
The present state of matters is nobody has any money , so nothing is worth anything . 
Edwards , with his wife and family , were still believed to be here . 
It was a lonely , mournful looking morning , but when I reached the beautiful canyon of the St . 
Vrain , the sad blue became brilliant , and the sun warm and scintillating . 
Ah , how beautiful and incomparable the ride up here is , infinitely more beautiful than the much vaunted parts I have seen elsewhere . 
There is , first , this beautiful hill girdled valley of fair savannas , through which the bright St . 
Vrain curves in and out amidst a tangle of cotton wood and withered clematis and Virginia creeper , which two months ago made the valley gay with their scarlet and gold . 
It was a weird ride . 
I got on very slowly . 
The road is a hard one for any horse , specially for a heavily loaded one , and at the end of several weeks of severe travel . 
When I had ridden fifteen miles I stopped at the ranch where people usually get food , but it was empty , and the next was also deserted . 
So I was compelled to go to the last house , where two young men are baching . 
He cooked me a splendid dinner , with good tea . 
Wolves howled in all directions . 
This is said to denote the approach of a storm . 
The ride did seem endless after darkness came on . 
So I rode tediously down M'Ginn's Gulch , which was full of crackings and other strange mountain noises , and was pitch dark , though the stars were bright overhead . 
Soon I heard the welcome sound of a barking dog . 
All my visions of a comfortable reception and good meal after my long ride vanished with his first words . 
The other settler and his wife had left the park , so there was not a woman within twenty five miles . 
A fierce wind had arisen , and the cold was awful , which seemed to make matters darker . 
I did not care in the least about myself . 
The young men did not show any annoyance , but exerted themselves to prepare a meal , and courteously made Jim share it . 
So we agreed to make the best of it . 
Sundry practical difficulties had to be faced and overcome . 
There was one of the common spring mattresses of the country in the little room which opened from the living room , but nothing upon it . 
This was remedied by making a large bag and filling it with hay . 
Then there were neither sheets , towels , nor table clothes . 
This was irremediable , and I never missed the first or last . 
Candles were another loss , and we had only one paraffin lamp . 
Sunday was brilliant , but nearly a hurricane , and I dared not stir outside the cabin . 
The parlor was two inches deep in the mud from the roof . 
We nominally divide the cooking . 
My room is easily done , but the parlor is a never ending business . 
I have swept shovelfuls of mud out of it three times to day . 
There is nothing to dust it with but a buffalo's tail , and every now and then a gust descends the open chimney and drives the wood ashes all over the room . 
However , I have found an old shawl which answers for a table cloth , and have made our parlor look a little more habitable . 
Jim came in yesterday in a silent mood , and sat looking vacantly into the fire . 
The young men said that this mood was the usual precursor of an ugly fit . 
Food is a great difficulty . 
Of thirty milch cows only one is left , and she does not give milk enough for us to drink . 
The only meat is some pickled pork , very salt and hard , which I cannot eat , and the hens lay less than one egg a day . 
Yesterday morning I made some rolls , and made the last bread into a bread and butter pudding , which we all enjoyed . 
Had it not been for some tea which was bestowed upon me at the inn at Longmount we should have had none . 
In this superb air and physically active life I can eat everything but pickled pork . 
We breakfast about nine , dine at two , and have supper at seven , but our MENU never varies . 
To day I have been all alone in the park , as the men left to hunt elk after breakfast , after bringing in wood and water . 
The sky is brilliant and the light intense , or else the solitude would be oppressive . 
I must attempt to put down the trifling events of each day just as they occur . 
The second time that I was left alone Mr. Nugent came in looking very black , and asked me to ride with him to see the beaver dams on the Black Canyon . 
No more whistling or singing , or talking to his beautiful mare , or sparkling repartee . 
His mood was as dark as the sky overhead , which was black with an impending snowstorm . 
If you want to know , he continued , how nearly a man can become a devil , I'll tell you now . 
There was no choice , and we rode up the canyon , and I listened to one of the darkest tales of ruin I have ever heard or read . 
Its early features were very simple . 
His father was a British officer quartered at Montreal , of a good old Irish family . 
From his account he was an ungovernable boy , imperfectly educated , and tyrannizing over a loving but weak mother . 
He saw her three times , but scarcely spoke to her . 
Some of these tales I have heard before , but never so terribly told . 
Vain , even in his dark mood , he told me that he was idolized by women , and that in his worst hours he was always chivalrous to good women . 
He described himself as riding through camps in his scout's dress with a red scarf round his waist , and sixteen golden curls , eighteen inches long , hanging over his shoulders . 
The handsome , even superbly handsome , side of his face was towards me as he spoke . 
The narrative seemed to lack some link , for I next found him on a homestead in Missouri , from whence he came to Colorado a few years ago . 
His fame for violence and ruffianism preceded him into Colorado , where his knowledge of and love of the mountains have earned him the sobriquet he now bears . 
He has a squatter's claim and forty head of cattle , and is a successful trapper besides , but envy and vindictiveness are raging within him . 
Of course I cannot give details . 
The story took three hours to tell , and was crowded with terrific illustrations of a desperado's career , told with a rush of wild eloquence that was truly thrilling . 
I've given Him no choice but to put me with 'the devil and his angel . 
You've stirred the better nature in me too late . 
If ever a man were a slave , I am . 
Don't speak to me of repentance and reformation . 
Your voice reminded me of . 
I wish I had been spared the regret and excitement of that afternoon . 
The snow cleared off late , and intense frost set in . 
The sunshine has been brilliant to day . 
I took a most beautiful ride to Black Canyon to look for the horses . 
Every day some new beauty , or effect of snow and light , is to be seen . 
But there is something very solemn , at times almost overwhelming , in the winter solitude . 
I have never experienced anything like it even when I lived on the slopes of Hualalai . 
To day has been one of manual labor . 
We did not breakfast till , then the men went out , and I never sat down till two . 
I also made a most unsatisfactory investigation into the state of my apparel . 
Owing to my inability to get money in Denver I am almost without shoes , have nothing but a pair of slippers and some arctics . 
We have arranged the work better . 
Mr. Buchan was doing too much , and it was hard for him , as he is very delicate . 
You will wonder how three people here in the wilderness can have much to do . 
Then two sick cows have had to be attended to . 
We were with one when it died yesterday . 
It suffered terribly , and looked at us with the pathetically pleading eyes of a creature made subject to vanity . 
The disposal of its carcass was a difficulty . 
They are much larger than the prairie wolf , but equally cowardly , I believe . 
I was alone in the cabin this afternoon when Mr. Nugent , whom we believed to be on the Snowy Range , walked in very pale and haggard looking , and coughing severely . 
He offered to show me the trail up one of the grandest of the canyons , and I could not refuse to go . 
The Fall River has had its source completely altered by the operations of the beavers . 
Their engineering skill is wonderful . 
In one place they have made a lake by damming up the stream in another their works have created an island , and they have made several falls . 
Their storehouses , of course , are carefully concealed . 
By this time they are about full for the winter . 
We saw quantities of young cotton wood and aspen trees , with stems about as thick as my arm , lying where these industrious creatures have felled them ready for their use . 
They always work at night and in concert . 
Their long , sharp teeth are used for gnawing down the trees , but their mason work is done entirely with their flat , trowel like tails . 
The canyon was glorious , ah ! glorious beyond any other , but it was a dismal and depressing ride . 
The dead past buried its dead . 
Not an allusion was made to the conversation previously . 
Jim's manner was courteous , but freezing , and when I left home on my return he said he hardly thought he should be back from the Snowy Range before I left . 
As I cautiously rode back , the sunset glories were reddening the mountain tops , and the park lay in violet gloom . 
This is a piteous day , quite black , freezing hard , and with a fierce north east wind . 
The absence of sunshine here , where it is nearly perpetual , has a very depressing effect , and all the scenery appears in its grimness of black and gray . 
We have lost three horses , including Birdie , and have nothing to entice them with , and not an animal to go and drive them in with . 
The men are losing their whole day in looking for them . 
The evening is setting in sublime in its blackness . 
Late in the afternoon I caught a horse which was snuffing at the sheaf oats , and had a splendid gallop on the Longmount trail with the two great hunting dogs . 
In returning , in the grimness of the coming storm , I had that view of the park which I saw first in the glories of an autumn sunset . 
How can you expect me to write letters from such a place , from a life in which nothing happens ? It really is strange that neither Evans nor Edwards come back . 
We have been gradually growing later at night and later in the morning . 
To day we did not breakfast till ten . 
You can fancy my surprise , on going into the kitchen , to find a dish of smoking steaks of venison on the table . 
We ate like famished people , and enjoyed our meal thoroughly . 
Often while vainly trying to swallow some pickled pork I had looked across to the tantalizing animal , but it was not to be thought of . 
We think that Edwards will surely be up to night , but unless he brings supplies our case is looking serious . 
The flour is running low , there is only coffee for one week , and I have only a scanty three ounces of tea left . 
The baking powder is nearly at an end . 
We have agreed to economize by breakfasting very late , and having two meals a day instead of three . 
Our evenings are social and pleasant . 
We finish supper about eight , and make up a huge fire . 
The men smoke while I write to you . 
Then we draw near the fire and I take my endless mending , and we talk or read aloud . 
Both are very intelligent , and Mr. Buchan has very extended information and a good deal of insight into character . 
He said he had caught cold on the Range , and was suffering from an old arrow wound in the lung . 
We had a long conversation without adverting to the former one , and he told me some of the present circumstances of his ruined life . 
His ideas of right are the queerest possible . 
He says that he believes in God , but what he knows or believes of God's law I know not . 
How shall I ever leave this land which is very far off ? How CAN I ever leave it ? is the real question . 
We are going on the principle , Let us eat and drink , for to morrow we die , and the stores are melting away . 
The two meals are not an economical plan , for we are so much more hungry that we eat more than when we had three . 
We had a good deal of sacred music to day , to make it as like Sunday as possible . 
The faint melancholy of this winter loneliness is very fascinating . 
ESTES PARK , COLORADO , November . 
We have lost count of time , and can only agree on the fact that the date is somewhere near the end of November . 
Our life has settled down into serenity , and our singular and enforced partnership is very pleasant . 
We might be three men living together , but for the unvarying courtesy and consideration which they show to me . 
The days go very fast it was today before I knew that it was . 
It is a calm life without worries . 
The men are so easy to live with they never fuss , or grumble , or sigh , or make a trouble of anything . 
Our food is a great object of interest to us , and we are ravenously hungry now that we have only two meals a day . 
About sundown each goes forth to his chores Mr. K. to chop wood , Mr. B. to haul water , I to wash the milk pans and water the horses . 
These lions , which are really a species of puma , are bloodthirsty as well as cowardly . 
Lately one got into a sheepfold in the canyon of the St . 
Vrain , and killed thirty sheep , sucking the blood from their throats . 
November ? This has been a day of minor events , as well as a busy one . 
I was so busy that I never sat down from till . 
We were all busy getting our supper ready when the dogs began to bark furiously , and we heard the noise of horses . 
Evans at last ! we exclaimed , but we were wrong . 
Mr. Kavan looked very grave . 
It's another mouth to feed , he said . 
We discussed the food question gravely , as it presented a real difficulty . 
We put him into a bed closet opening from the kitchen , and decided to see what he was fit for before giving him work . 
We were very much amazed , in truth , at his coming here . 
He is evidently a shallow , arrogant youth . 
This mouth has come up to try the panacea of manual labor , but he is town bred , and I see that he will do nothing . 
He is writing poetry , and while I was busy to day began to read it aloud to me , asking for my criticism . 
He is just at the age when everything literary has a fascination , and every literary person is a hero , specially Dr . 
Last night was fearful from the lifting of the cabin and the breaking of the mud from the roof . 
We sat with fine gravel driving in our faces , and this morning I carried four shovelfuls of mud out of my room . 
I felt like a servant going out for a day's pleasuring , hurrying through my dishes , and leaving my room in disorder . 
The wagon lay half way down the side of a ravine , kept from destruction by having caught on some trees . 
People do give him credit for having as kind a heart as ever beat . 
Yet the sun which shines on the evil and the good was lighting up the gold of his hair . 
The thing dreaded has come at last , a snow storm , with a north east wind . 
It ceased about midnight , but not till it had covered my bed . 
Then the mercury fell below zero , and everything froze . 
I melted a tin of water for washing by the fire , but it was hard frozen before I could use it . 
My hair , which was thoroughly wet with the thawed snow of yesterday , is hard frozen in plaits . 
The milk and treacle are like rock , the eggs have to be kept on the coolest part of the stove to keep them fluid . 
Two calves in the shed were frozen to death . 
Half our floor is deep in snow , and it is so cold that we cannot open the door to shovel it out . 
The snow began again at eight this morning , very fine and hard . 
It blows in through the chinks and dusts this letter while I write . 
Mr. Kavan keeps my ink bottle close to the fire , and hands it to me every time that I need to dip my pen . 
We have a huge fire , but cannot raise the temperature above degrees . 
The snow may either melt or block us in . 
Our only anxiety is about the supplies . 
We have tea and coffee enough to last over to morrow , the sugar is just done , and the flour is getting low . 
It is really serious that we have another mouth to feed , and the newcomer is a ravenous creature , eating more than the three of us . 
It dismays me to see his hungry eyes gauging the supply at breakfast , and to see the loaf disappear . 
He told me this morning that he could eat the whole of what was on the table . 
He is mad after food , and I see that Mr. K. is starving himself to make it hold out . 
Mr. Buchan is very far from well , and dreads the prospect of half rations . 
The mercury is degrees below zero , and the aurora is glorious . 
In my unchinked room the mercury is degrees below zero . 
Mr. Buchan can hardly get his breath the dryness is intense . 
We spent the afternoon cooking the Thanksgiving dinner . 
I made a wonderful pudding , for which I had saved eggs and cream for days , and dried and stoned cherries supplied the place of currants . 
I should think that few people in America have enjoyed their Thanksgiving dinner more . 
We had urged Mr. Nugent to join us , but he refused , almost savagely , which we regretted . 
My four pound cake made yesterday is all gone ! This wretched boy confesses that he was so hungry in the night that he got up and ate nearly half of it . 
He is trying to cajole me into making another . 
Before the boy came I had mistaken some faded cayenne pepper for ginger , and had made a cake with it . 
Last evening I put half of it into the cupboard and left the door open . 
During the night we heard a commotion in the kitchen and much choking , coughing , and groaning , and at breakfast the boy was unable to swallow food with his usual ravenousness . 
I never saw men so patient with a lad before . 
He is a most vexing addition to our party , yet one cannot help laughing at him . 
He is not honorable , though . 
I dare not leave this letter lying on the table , as he would read it . 
, and he shows us long pieces of his published poetry . 
Again , he lent me an essay by himself , called The Function of the Novelist , which is nothing but a mosaic of unacknowledged quotations . 
He is a perfect plague with his ignorance and SELF sufficiency . 
Two hours afterwards I found them untouched . 
He talked about his skill with the lasso , but could not even catch one of our quietest horses . 
Worse than all , he does not know one cow from another . 
Two days ago he lost our milch cow in driving her in to be milked , and Mr. Kavan lost hours of valuable time in hunting for her without success . 
To day he told us triumphantly that he had found her , and he was sent out to milk her . 
After two hours he returned with a rueful face and a few drops of whitish fluid in the milk pail , saying that that was all he could get . 
I told him to fill up the four gallon kettle , and an hour afterwards found it red hot on the stove . 
Nothing can be kept from him unless it is hidden in my room . 
He confesses to it all , and says , I suppose you think me a cure . 
This life is in some respects like being on board ship there are no mails , and one knows nothing beyond one's little world , a very little one in this case . 
We find each other true , and have learnt to esteem and trust each other . 
I should , for instance , go out of this room leaving this book open on the table , knowing that the men would not read my letter . 
They are discreet , reticent , observant , and on many subjects well informed , but they are of a type which has no antitype at home . 
All women work in this region , so there is no fuss about my working , or saying , Oh , you mustn't do that , or Oh , let me do that . 
We sat up till eleven last night , so confident were we that Edwards would leave Denver the day after Thanksgiving and get up here . 
This morning we came to the resolution that we must break up . 
Tea , coffee , and sugar are done , the venison is turning sour , and the men have only one month left for the hunting on which their winter living depends . 
I cannot leave the Territory till I get money , but I can go to Longmount for the mail and hear whether the panic is abating . 
Yesterday I was alone all day , and after riding to the base of Long's Peak , made two roly poly puddings for supper , having nothing else . 
The men , however , came back perfectly loaded with trout , and we had a feast . 
Epicures at home would have envied us . 
For once young Lyman was satisfied , for the dish was replenished as often as it was emptied . 
, and have packed them in ice until they can be sent to Denver for sale . 
The winter fishing is very rich . 
Sometimes two men bring home lbs . 
of trout as the result of one day's winter fishing . 
It is a cold and silent sport , however . 
How a cook at home would despise our scanty appliances , with which we turn out luxuries . 
The cold has been very severe , but I do not suffer from it even in my insufficient clothing . 
I take a piece of granite made very hot to bed , draw the blankets over my head and sleep eight hours , though the snow often covers me . 
My bed and room were white , and the frost was so intense that water brought in a kettle hot from the fire froze as I poured it into the basin . 
To day the sky has resumed its delicious blue , and the park its unrivalled beauty . 
We had a great deal of sacred music and singing on Sunday . 
I was to have started for Canyon to day , but was awoke by snow as stinging as pinpoints beating on my hand . 
We all got up early , but it did not improve until nearly noon . 
In the afternoon Lyman and I rode to Mr. Nugent's cabin . 
However , the ugly fit had passed off , and he was so very pleasant and courteous that we remained the whole afternoon . 
Lyman's one thought was that he could make capital out of the interview , and write an account of the celebrated desperado for a Western paper . 
The interior of the den was frightful , yet among his black and hideous surroundings the grace of his manner and the genius of his conversation were only more apparent . 
Then he read us a very able paper on Spiritualism which he was writing . 
He had no better seat to offer me than a log , but offered it with a graceful unconsciousness that it was anything less luxurious than an easy chair . 
Two valuable rifles and a Sharp's revolver hung on the wall , and the sash and badge of a scout . 
I could not help looking at Jim as he stood talking to me . 
He goes mad with drink at times , swears fearfully , has an ungovernable temper . 
He has formerly led a desperate life , and is at times even now undoubtedly a ruffian . 
He offered to be my guide to the Plains when I go away . 
Lyman asked me if I should not be afraid of being murdered , but one could not be safer than with him I have often been told . 
The cold was truly awful . 
They kindly say that if the snow detains me here they also will remain . 
To morrow , weather permitting , I set off for a ride of miles , and my next letter will be my last from the Rocky Mountains . 
HUGHES'S , LOWER CANYON , COLORADO , December . 
Once again here , in refined and cultured society , with harmonious voices about me , and dear , sweet , loving children whose winning ways make this cabin a true English home . 
England , with all thy faults , I love thee still ! I can truly say , Where'er I roam , whatever realms I see . 
My heart , untraveled , fondly turns to thee . 
The cold is intense a clear , brilliant , stimulating cold , so dry that even in my threadbare flannel riding dress I do not suffer from it . 
I must now take up my narrative of the nothings which have all the interest of SOMETHINGS to me . 
We all got up before daybreak on Tuesday , and breakfasted at seven . 
I have not seen the dawn for some time , with its amber fires deepening into red , and the snow peaks flushing one by one , and it seemed a new miracle . 
It was a west wind , and we all thought it promised well . 
I took only two pounds of luggage , some raisins , the mailbag , and an additional blanket under my saddle . 
Had I known what made it purple I should certainly have gone no farther . 
Soon Birdie and myself were a mass of acicular crystals it was a true easterly fog . 
I galloped on , hoping to get through it , unable to see a yard before me but it thickened , and I was obliged to subside into a jog trot . 
It was ugly altogether certainly , a desperado's grim jest , and it was best to accept it as such , though I had just cause for displeasure . 
Why , I , an old mountaineer , wouldn't go down to the Plains to day . 
He took me back to the track and the interview which began with a pistol shot , ended quite pleasantly . 
It was an eerie ride , one not to be forgotten , though there was no danger . 
I could not recognize any localities . 
Every tree was silvered , and the fir tree tufts of needles looked like white chrysanthemums . 
The snow lay a foot deep in the gulches , with its hard , smooth surface marked by the feet of innumerable birds and beasts . 
Ice bridges had formed across all the streams , and I crossed them without knowing when . 
Gulches looked fathomless abysses , with clouds boiling up out of them , and shaggy mountain summits , half seen for a moment through the eddies , as quickly vanished . 
Everything looked vast and indefinite . 
Then a huge creation , like one of Dore's phantom illustrations , with much breathing of wings , came sailing towards me in a temporary opening in the mist . 
As with a strange rustle it passed close over my head , I saw , for the first time , the great mountain eagle , carrying a good sized beast in his talons . 
It was a noble vision . 
Then there were ten miles of metamorphosed gulches silent , awful many ice bridges , then a frozen drizzle , and then the winds changed from east to north east . 
Birdie was covered with exquisite crystals , and her long mane and the long beard which covers her throat were pure white . 
I saw that I must give up crossing the mountains to this place by an unknown trail and I struck the old trail to the St . 
Vrain , which I had never traveled before , but which I knew to be more legible than the new one . 
I got down to the St . 
Vrain Canyon in good time , and stopped at a house thirteen miles from Longmount to get oats . 
I was white from head to foot , and my clothes were frozen stiff . 
By that time I had reached the prairie , only eight miles from Longmount , and pushed on . 
It was twilight from the thick snow , and I faced a furious east wind loaded with fine , hard frozen crystals , which literally made my face bleed . 
But reaching a wild place , I lost it , and still cantered on , trusting to the pony's sagacity . 
It failed for once , for she took me on a lake and we fell through the ice into the water , yards from land , and had a hard fight back again . 
It grew worse and worse . 
You cannot imagine what that was . 
I could hardly keep the other open by picking the ice from it constantly with my numb fingers , in doing which I got the back of my hand slightly frostbitten . 
It was truly awful at the time . 
If there's a traveler on the prairie to night , God help him ! the host had said to his wife just before I came in . 
I found Evans there , storm stayed , and that to his great credit at the time my money matters were all right . 
The air was intensely clear , and the mercury SEVENTEEN DEGREES BELOW ZERO ! The snow sparkled and snapped under one's feet . 
It was gloriously beautiful ! In this climate , if you only go out for a short time you do not feel cold even without a hat , or any additional wrappings . 
I little thought that miserable , broiling day on which I arrived at it with Dr . 
and Mrs. Hughes , of the glories of which it was the gate , and of the good times I should have . 
Now I am at home in it every one in it and along the St . 
The cold , always great , became piteous . 
The life of which I wrote before is scarcely less severe , though lightened by a hope of change , and this weather brings out some special severities . 
Unless they are kept on the stove , there is no part of the room in which they do not freeze . 
It is uninteresting down here in the Foot Hills . 
I can hardly realize that the river which lies ice bound outside this house is the same which flashes through Estes Park , and which I saw snow born on Long's Peak . 
Yesterday morning the mercury had disappeared , so it was degrees below zero at least . 
We breakfasted on buffalo beef , and I left at eight to ride forty five miles before night , Dr . 
Hughes and a gentleman who was staying there convoying me the first fifteen miles . 
We stopped at a trapper's ranch to feed , and the old trapper amused me by seeming to think Estes Park almost inaccessible in winter . 
The distance was greater than I had been told , and he said that I could not get there before eleven at night , and not at all if there was much drift . 
The idea of my spending the night in the forest alone , by a fire , struck me as most grotesque . 
We did not start again till one , and the two gentlemen rode the first two miles with me . 
Indeed , I walked the last three miles . 
, the sooner I leave the better . 
The solitary ride to Evans's was very eerie . 
It was very dark , and the noises were unintelligible . 
Young Lyman rushed out to take my horse , and the light and warmth within were delightful , but there was a stiffness about the new regime . 
A young ex Guardsman has come up with Evans , of whom the sanguine creature forms great expectations , to be disappointed doubtless . 
They said it was not half so much like home now , and recalled the good time we had had for three weeks . 
Lyman having lost the ow , we have no milk . 
Evans , since tea , has told me all his troubles and worries . 
I. L. B. Letter XVII Woman's mission The last morning Crossing the St . 
Vrain again Crossing the prairie Jim's dream Keeping strangers The inn kitchen A reputed child eater Notoriety A quiet dance Jim's resolve The frost fall An unfortunate introduction . 
CHEYENNE , WYOMING , December . 
I did not wish to realize it , as I looked at the snow peaks glistening in the moonlight . 
No woman will be seen in the park till next May . 
By May , he said , we shall be little better than brutes , in our manners at least . 
I have written that this scenery is not lovable , but I love it . 
I left on Birdie at o'clock , Evans riding with me as far as Mr. Nugent's . 
I should not have been able to leave if Mr. Nugent had not offered his services . 
His chivalry to women is so well known , that Evans said I could be safer and better cared for with no one . 
He added , His heart is good and kind , as kind a heart as ever beat . 
He's a great enemy of his own , but he's been living pretty quietly for the last four years . 
Some months later Mountain Jim fell by Evans's hand , shot from Evans's doorstep while riding past his cabin . 
The story of the previous weeks is dark , sad , and evil . 
Of the five differing versions which have been written to me of the act itself and its immediate causes , it is best to give none . 
The tragedy is too painful to dwell upon . 
Jim lived long enough to give his own statement , and to appeal to the judgment of God , but died in low delirium before the case reached a human tribunal . 
Rich spoils of beavers' skins were lying on the cabin floor , and the trapper took the finest , a mouse colored kitten beaver's skin , and presented it to me . 
I hired his beautiful Arab mare , whose springy step and long easy stride was a relief after Birdie's short sturdy gait . 
We had a very pleasant ride , and I seldom had to walk . 
It required my knowledge of fact to assure me that I was not looking at the ocean . 
Jim shortened the way by repeating a great deal of poetry , and by earnest , reasonable conversation , so that I was quite surprised when it grew dark . 
He told me that he never lay down to sleep without prayer prayer chiefly that God would give him a happy death . 
His house is a model . 
He cleans everything as soon as it is used , so nothing is ever dirty , and his stove and cooking gear in their bright parts look like polished silver . 
It was amusing to hear the two men talk like two women about various ways of making bread and biscuits , one even writing out a recipe for the other . 
The stars were intensely bright , and a well defined auroral arch , throwing off fantastic coruscations , lighted the whole northern sky . 
Yet I was only in the Foot Hills , and Long's glorious Peak was not to be seen . 
Besides Ring there was another gigantic dog craving for notice , and two large cats , which , the whole evening , were on their master's knee . 
Cold as the night was , the house was chinked , and the rooms felt quite warm . 
I even missed the free currents of air which I had been used to ! This was my last evening in what may be called a mountainous region . 
Already the dismalness of a level land comes over me . 
The canyon of the St . 
This was the last house we saw till we reached our destination that night . 
All that day we neither saw man , beast , nor bird . 
Like all true children of the mountains , he pined even when temporarily absent from them . 
I pictured to myself no privacy , no peace , no sleep , drinking , low sounds , and worse than all , Jim getting into a quarrel and using his pistols . 
He was uncomfortable about it for another reason . 
He said he had dreamt the night before that there was to be a dance , and that he had to shoot a man for making an unpleasant remark . 
When we got to the queer little place where they keep strangers at St . 
Louis , they were very civil , and said that after supper we could have the kitchen to ourselves . 
There were besides two naughty children in the kitchen , who cried incessantly , and kept opening and shutting the door . 
There was no place to sit down but a wooden chair by the side of the kitchen stove , at which supper was being cooked for ten men . 
The bustle and clatter were indescribable , and the landlady asked innumerable questions , and seemed to fill the whole room . 
I sat by the stove till supper , wearying of the noise and bustle after the quiet of Estes Park . 
At last the bad smelling supper was served , and ten silent men came in and gobbled it up , staring steadily at Jim as they gobbled . 
When we returned , the kitchen was much quieter . 
It was cleared by eight , as the landlady promised we had it to ourselves till twelve , and could scarcely hear the music . 
It was a most respectable dance , a fortnightly gathering got up by the neighboring settlers , most of them young married people , and there was no drinking at all . 
It was altogether very quiet and peaceful . 
He repeated to me several poems of great merit which he had composed , and told me much more about his life . 
Too late ! too late ! he always answered , for such a change . 
It might have been once , he said . 
Ay , MIGHT have been . 
As I looked at him , I felt a pity such as I never before felt for a human being . 
But it is too late . 
The landlady was quite taken up with her distinguished guest . 
That kind , quiet gentleman , Mountain Jim ! Well , I never ! he must be a very good man ! Yesterday morning the mercury was degrees below zero . 
I think I never saw such a brilliant atmosphere . 
One breath and they vanish . 
The air was filled with diamond sparks quite intangible . 
They seemed just glitter and no more . 
It was still and cloudless , and the shapes of violet mountains were softened by a veil of the tenderest blue . 
When the Greeley stage wagon came up , Mr. Fodder , whom I met at Lower Canyon , was on it . 
He had expressed a great wish to go to Estes Park , and to hunt with Mountain Jim , if it would be safe to do the latter . 
He was now dressed in the extreme of English dandyism , and when I introduced them , he put out a small hand cased in a perfectly fitting lemon colored kid glove . 
As the trapper stood there in his grotesque rags and odds and ends of apparel , his gentlemanliness of deportment brought into relief the innate vulgarity of a rich parvenu . 
that Evans fired the shot which proved fatal . 
