'Life on the Mississippi' by Mark Twain . 
, who would be very grateful for any corrections or comments . 
All characters that fall outside the normal ASCII bit range have been translated into simple text codes within angle brackets . 
Accents are shown as e , a , etc . 
Fractions are shown as three quarters , half , etc . 
Footnotes are shown thus footnote Text of footnote , and are placed exactly where they belong in the text . 
Be warned that there is one VERY long footnote in Chapter . 
Italics are shown as the word 'very' in the previous paragraph . 
A blank line and an indent of two characters indicates a new paragraph , except for the first paragraph of each chapter , which has no indent . 
Where there are multiple blank lines , this indicates a spacing in the original text . 
No words have been split by hyphens except those that were intended to be by the author . 
LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI BY MARK TWAIN THE 'BODY OF THE NATION' BUT the basin of the Mississippi is the BODY OF THE NATION . 
All the other parts are but members , important in themselves , yet more important in their relations to this . 
In extent it is the second great valley of the world , being exceeded only by that of the Amazon . 
It exceeds in extent the whole of Europe , exclusive of Russia , Norway , and Sweden . 
IT WOULD CONTAIN AUSTRIA FOUR TIMES , GERMANY OR SPAIN FIVE TIMES , FRANCE SIX TIMES , THE BRITISH ISLANDS OR ITALY TEN TIMES . 
Latitude , elevation , and rainfall all combine to render every part of the Mississippi Valley capable of supporting a dense population . 
AS A DWELLING PLACE FOR CIVILIZED MAN IT IS BY FAR THE FIRST UPON OUR GLOBE . 
EDITOR'S TABLE , HARPER'S MAGAZINE , FEBRUARY Chapter The River and Its History THE Mississippi is well worth reading about . 
It is not a commonplace river , but on the contrary is in all ways remarkable . 
Considering the Missouri its main branch , it is the longest river in the world four thousand three hundred miles . 
It discharges three times as much water as the St . 
Lawrence , twenty five times as much as the Rhine , and three hundred and thirty eight times as much as the Thames . 
The Mississippi receives and carries to the Gulf water from fifty four subordinate rivers that are navigable by steamboats , and from some hundreds that are navigable by flats and keels . 
It is a remarkable river in this that instead of widening toward its mouth , it grows narrower grows narrower and deeper . 
At the junction of the Ohio the Mississippi's depth is eighty seven feet the depth increases gradually , reaching one hundred and twenty nine just above the mouth . 
The difference in rise and fall is also remarkable not in the upper , but in the lower river . 
The rise is tolerably uniform down to Natchez about fifty feet . 
But at Bayou La Fourche the river rises only twenty four feet at New Orleans only fifteen , and just above the mouth only two and one half . 
This mud , solidified , would make a mass a mile square and two hundred and forty one feet high . 
This gives us the age of that piece of country , without any trouble at all one hundred and twenty thousand years . 
Yet it is much the youthfullest batch of country that lies around there anywhere . 
The Mississippi is remarkable in still another way its disposition to make prodigious jumps by cutting through narrow necks of land , and thus straightening and shortening itself . 
The town of Delta used to be three miles below Vicksburg a recent cutoff has radically changed the position , and Delta is now TWO MILES ABOVE Vicksburg . 
Both of these river towns have been retired to the country by that cut off . 
The Mississippi does not alter its locality by cut offs alone it is always changing its habitat BODILY is always moving bodily SIDEWISE . 
At Hard Times , La . 
, the river is two miles west of the region it used to occupy . 
As a result , the original SITE of that settlement is not now in Louisiana at all , but on the other side of the river , in the State of Mississippi . 
The river lies to the right of it , in places , and to the left of it in other places . 
But enough of these examples of the mighty stream's eccentricities for the present I will give a few more of them further along in the book . 
Let us drop the Mississippi's physical history , and say a word about its historical history so to speak . 
It would have been better to paint a picture of it . 
had suppressed the monasteries , burnt Fisher and another bishop or two , and was getting his English reformation and his harem effectively started . 
When De Soto stood on the banks of the Mississippi , it was still two years before Luther's death eleven years before the burning of Servetus thirty years before the St . 
De Soto merely glimpsed the river , then died and was buried in it by his priests and soldiers . 
One would expect the priests and the soldiers to multiply the river's dimensions by ten the Spanish custom of the day and thus move other adventurers to go at once and explore it . 
On the contrary , their narratives when they reached home , did not excite that amount of curiosity . 
The Mississippi was left unvisited by whites during a term of years which seems incredible in our energetic days . 
In our day we don't allow a hundred and thirty years to elapse between glimpses of a marvel . 
For more than a hundred and fifty years there had been white settlements on our Atlantic coasts . 
The mere mysteriousness of the matter ought to have fired curiosity and compelled exploration but this did not occur . 
But at last La Salle the Frenchman conceived the idea of seeking out that river and exploring it . 
It always happens that when a man seizes upon a neglected and important idea , people inflamed with the same notion crop up all around . 
It happened so in this instance . 
Previously the supposition had been that it emptied into the Atlantic , or Sea of Virginia . 
Chapter The River and Its Explorers LA SALLE himself sued for certain high privileges , and they were graciously accorded him by Louis XIV of inflated memory . 
And meantime other parties had had better fortune . 
In Joliet the merchant , and Marquette the priest , crossed the country and reached the banks of the Mississippi . 
They went by way of the Great Lakes and from Green Bay , in canoes , by way of Fox River and the Wisconsin . 
In that day , all explorers traveled with an outfit of priests . 
De Soto had twenty four with him . 
La Salle had several , also . 
On the th of June , , the canoes of Joliet and Marquette and their five subordinates reached the junction of the Wisconsin with the Mississippi . 
Mr. Parkman says 'Before them a wide and rapid current coursed athwart their way , by the foot of lofty heights wrapped thick in forests . 
He continues 'Turning southward , they paddled down the stream , through a solitude unrelieved by the faintest trace of man . 
They did this day after day and night after night and at the end of two weeks they had not seen a human being . 
The river was an awful solitude , then . 
And it is now , over most of its stretch . 
In the morning the chief and six hundred of his tribesmen escorted the Frenchmen to the river and bade them a friendly farewell . 
On the rocks above the present city of Alton they found some rude and fantastic Indian paintings , which they describe . 
They had proved to their satisfaction , that the Mississippi did not empty into the Gulf of California , or into the Atlantic . 
They believed it emptied into the Gulf of Mexico . 
They turned back , now , and carried their great news to Canada . 
But belief is not proof . 
It was reserved for La Salle to furnish the proof . 
He was provokingly delayed , by one misfortune after another , but at last got his expedition under way at the end of the year . 
They moved in procession down the surface of the frozen river , on foot , and dragging their canoes after them on sledges . 
At Peoria Lake they struck open water , and paddled thence to the Mississippi and turned their prows southward . 
'Again , says Mr. Parkman , 'they embarked and with every stage of their adventurous progress , the mystery of this vast new world was more and more unveiled . 
More and more they entered the realms of spring . 
The hazy sunlight , the warm and drowsy air , the tender foliage , the opening flowers , betokened the reviving life of nature . 
Day by day they floated down the great bends , in the shadow of the dense forests , and in time arrived at the mouth of the Arkansas . 
First , they were greeted by the natives of this locality as Marquette had before been greeted by them with the booming of the war drum and the flourish of arms . 
The Virgin composed the difficulty in Marquette's case the pipe of peace did the same office for La Salle . 
The white man and the red man struck hands and entertained each other during three days . 
And also , by signs , La Salle drew from these simple children of the forest acknowledgments of fealty to Louis the Putrid , over the water . 
Nobody smiled at these colossal ironies . 
These performances took place on the site of the future town of Napoleon , Arkansas , and there the first confiscation cross was raised on the banks of the great river . 
Marquette's and Joliet's voyage of discovery ended at the same spot the site of the future town of Napoleon . 
Therefore , three out of the four memorable events connected with the discovery and exploration of the mighty river , occurred , by accident , in one and the same place . 
It is a most curious distinction , when one comes to look at it and think about it . 
The chiefs house contained an audience room forty feet square and there he received Tonty in State , surrounded by sixty old men clothed in white cloaks . 
There was a temple in the town , with a mud wall about it ornamented with skulls of enemies sacrificed to the sun . 
It must have been like getting home again it was home with an advantage , in fact , for it lacked Louis XIV . 
Mr. Parkman , in closing his fascinating narrative , thus sums up 'On that day , the realm of France received on parchment a stupendous accession . 
Chapter Frescoes from the Past APPARENTLY the river was ready for business , now . 
But no , the distribution of a population along its banks was as calm and deliberate and time devouring a process as the discovery and exploration had been . 
Seventy years elapsed , after the exploration , before the river's borders had a white population worth considering and nearly fifty more before the river had a commerce . 
had rotted and died , the French monarchy had gone down in the red tempest of the revolution , and Napoleon was a name that was beginning to be talked about . 
Truly , there were snails in those days . 
The river's earliest commerce was in great barges keelboats , broadhorns . 
They floated and sailed from the upper rivers to New Orleans , changed cargoes there , and were tediously warped and poled back by hand . 
A voyage down and back sometimes occupied nine months . 
By and by the steamboat intruded . 
But after a while the steamboats so increased in number and in speed that they were able to absorb the entire commerce and then keelboating died a permanent death . 
The book is a story which details some passages in the life of an ignorant village boy , Huck Finn , son of the town drunkard of my time out west , there . 
But in a fog , they pass Cairo without knowing it . 
Jim had a wonderful level head , for a nigger he could most always start a good plan when you wanted one . 
I stood up and shook my rags off and jumped into the river , and struck out for the raft's light . 
By and by , when I got down nearly to her , I eased up and went slow and cautious . 
But everything was all right nobody at the sweeps . 
There was thirteen men there they was the watch on deck of course . 
And a mighty rough looking lot , too . 
They had a jug , and tin cups , and they kept the jug moving . 
One man was singing roaring , you may say and it wasn't a nice song for a parlor anyway . 
He roared through his nose , and strung out the last word of every line very long . 
When he was done they all fetched a kind of Injun war whoop , and then another was sung . 
She loved her husband dear i lee , But another man twyste as wed'l . 
Singing too , riloo , riloo , riloo , Ri too , riloo , rilay e , She loved her husband dear i lee , But another man twyste as wed'l . 
And so on fourteen verses . 
And another one told him to take a walk . 
They made fun of him till he got mad and jumped up and begun to cuss the crowd , and said he could lame any thief in the lot . 
They was all about to make a break for him , but the biggest man there jumped up and says 'Set whar you are , gentlemen . 
Leave him to me he's my meat . 
Then he jumped up in the air three times and cracked his heels together every time . 
He snatched them , he jerked them this way and that , he booted them around , he knocked them sprawling faster than they could get up . 
Bob and the Child had red noses and black eyes when they got through . 
Next they got out an old fiddle , and one played and another patted juba , and the rest turned themselves loose on a regular old fashioned keel boat break down . 
They couldn't keep that up very long without getting winded , so by and by they settled around the jug again . 
He says 'You look at the graveyards that tells the tale . 
Trees won't grow worth chucks in a Cincinnati graveyard , but in a Sent Louis graveyard they grow upwards of eight hundred foot high . 
It's all on account of the water the people drunk before they laid up . 
A Cincinnati corpse don't richen a soil any . 
And they talked about how Ohio water didn't like to mix with Mississippi water . 
Yes , says I , it is why . 
He laid his pipe down and leant his head on his hand , and says I thought we'd be furder down . 
'Well , he raised up two or three times , and looked away off and around on the water . 
That started me at it , too . 
A body is always doing what he sees somebody else doing , though there mayn't be no sense in it . 
Pretty soon I see a black something floating on the water away off to stabboard and quartering behind us . 
I see he was looking at it , too . 
I says What's that ? He says , sort of pettish , Tain't nothing but an old empty bar'l . 
An empty bar'l ! says I , why , says I , a spy glass is a fool to your eyes . 
How can you tell it's an empty bar'l ? He says I don't know I reckon it ain't a bar'l , but I thought it might be , says he . 
'We hadn't nothing else to do , so we kept on watching it . 
By and by I says Why looky here , Dick Allbright , that thing's a gaining on us , I believe . 
The thing gained and gained , and I judged it must be a dog that was about tired out . 
Well , we swung down into the crossing , and the thing floated across the bright streak of the moonshine , and , by George , it was bar'l . 
Says I Dick Allbright , what made you think that thing was a bar'l , when it was a half a mile off , says I. Says he I don't know . 
Says I You tell me , Dick Allbright . 
He says Well , I knowed it was a bar'l I've seen it before lots has seen it they says it's a haunted bar'l . 
'I called the rest of the watch , and they come and stood there , and I told them what Dick said . 
It floated right along abreast , now , and didn't gain any more . 
It was about twenty foot off . 
Some was for having it aboard , but the rest didn't want to . 
Dick Allbright said rafts that had fooled with it had got bad luck by it . 
The captain of the watch said he didn't believe in it . 
He said he reckoned the bar'l gained on us because it was in a little better current than what we was . 
He said it would leave by and by . 
We all just settled down glum , and watched the bar'l , and was oneasy and oncomfortable . 
Well , sir , it shut down black and still , and then the wind begin to moan around , and next the lightning begin to play and the thunder to grumble . 
This made the boys shake their heads . 
And every time the lightning come , there was that bar'l with the blue lights winking around it . 
We was always on the look out for it . 
But by and by , towards dawn , she was gone . 
When the day come we couldn't see her anywhere , and we warn't sorry , neither . 
'But next night about half past nine , when there was songs and high jinks going on , here she comes again , and took her old roost on the stabboard side . 
There warn't no more high jinks . 
Everybody got solemn nobody talked you couldn't get anybody to do anything but set around moody and look at the bar'l . 
It begun to cloud up again . 
When the watch changed , the off watch stayed up , 'stead of turning in . 
The storm ripped and roared around all night , and in the middle of it another man tripped and sprained his ankle , and had to knock off . 
The bar'l left towards day , and nobody see it go . 
'Everybody was sober and down in the mouth all day . 
I don't mean the kind of sober that comes of leaving liquor alone not that . 
They was quiet , but they all drunk more than usual not together but each man sidled off and took it private , by himself . 
And then , here comes the bar'l again . 
She took up her old place . 
She staid there all night nobody turned in . 
The storm come on again , after midnight . 
The captain ordered the watch to man the after sweeps for a crossing , and nobody would go no more sprained ankles for them , they said . 
They wouldn't even walk aft . 
Well then , just then the sky split wide open , with a crash , and the lightning killed two men of the after watch , and crippled two more . 
Crippled them how , says you ? Why , sprained their ankles 'The bar'l left in the dark betwixt lightnings , towards dawn . 
Well , not a body eat a bite at breakfast that morning . 
After that the men loafed around , in twos and threes , and talked low together . 
But none of them herded with Dick Allbright . 
They all give him the cold shake . 
If he come around where any of the men was , they split up and sidled away . 
They wouldn't man the sweeps with him . 
'After night come , you could see pretty plain that there was going to be trouble if that bar'l come again there was such a muttering going on . 
A good many wanted to kill Dick Allbright , because he'd seen the bar'l on other trips , and that had an ugly look . 
Some wanted to put him ashore . 
Some said , let's all go ashore in a pile , if the bar'l comes again . 
'This kind of whispers was still going on , the men being bunched together forrard watching for the bar'l , when , lo and behold you , here she comes again . 
Down she comes , slow and steady , and settles into her old tracks . 
You could a heard a pin drop . 
I'm going to fetch it aboard , he says . 
And before anybody could say a word , in he went . 
'He swum to it , and as he come pushing it to the raft , the men spread to one side . 
But the old man got it aboard and busted in the head , and there was a baby in it ! Yes , sir , a stark naked baby . 
It was Dick Allbright's baby he owned up and said so . 
He said the bad luck always begun light , and lasted till four men was killed , and then the bar'l didn't come any more after that . 
He said if the men would stand it one more night , and was a going on like that , but the men had got enough . 
'WHO was shedding tears ? says Bob 'was it Allbright or the baby ? 'Why , Allbright , of course didn't I tell you the baby was dead . 
Been dead three years how could it cry ? 'Well , never mind how it could cry how could it KEEP all that time ? says Davy . 
'I don't know how it done it , says Ed . 
'It done it though that's all I know about it . 
'Say what did they do with the bar'l ? says the Child of Calamity . 
'Why , they hove it overboard , and it sunk like a chunk of lead . 
'Edward , did the child look like it was choked ? says one . 
'Did it have its hair parted ? says another . 
'What was the brand on that bar'l , Eddy ? says a fellow they called Bill . 
'Have you got the papers for them statistics , Edmund ? says Jimmy . 
'Say , Edwin , was you one of the men that was killed by the lightning . 
'Him ? O , no , he was both of 'em , says Bob . 
Then they all haw hawed . 
'Say , Edward , don't you reckon you'd better take a pill ? You look bad don't you feel pale ? says the Child of Calamity . 
'O , come , now , Eddy , says Jimmy , 'show up you must a kept part of that bar'l to prove the thing by . 
Show us the bunghole do and we'll all believe you . 
'Say , boys , says Bill , 'less divide it up . 
I can swaller a thirteenth of the yarn , if you can worry down the rest . 
I was warm and soft and naked so he says 'Ouch ! and jumped back . 
'Come out of that , you beggar ! says one . 
'Who are you ? says another . 
'What are you after here ? Speak up prompt , or overboard you go . 
'Snake him out , boys . 
Snatch him out by the heels . 
I began to beg , and crept out amongst them trembling . 
Go for the paint , Jimmy . 
'Come here to the fire , and less see what you're up to here , says Davy . 
'Now set down there and give an account of yourself . 
How long have you been aboard here ? 'Not over a quarter of a minute , sir , says I. 'How did you get dry so quick ? 'I don't know , sir . 
I'm always that way , mostly . 
'Oh , you are , are you . 
What's your name ? I warn't going to tell my name . 
I didn't know what to say , so I just says 'Charles William Allbright , sir . 
Then they roared the whole crowd and I was mighty glad I said that , because maybe laughing would get them in a better humor . 
When they got done laughing , Davy says 'It won't hardly do , Charles William . 
You couldn't have growed this much in five year , and you was a baby when you come out of the bar'l , you know , and dead at that . 
Come , now , tell a straight story , and nobody'll hurt you , if you ain't up to anything wrong . 
What IS your name ? 'Aleck Hopkins , sir . 
'Well , Aleck , where did you come from , here ? 'From a trading scow . 
She lays up the bend yonder . 
I was born on her . 
'Now , looky here , says Davy 'you're scared , and so you talk wild . 
Honest , now , do you live in a scow , or is it a lie ? 'Yes , sir , in a trading scow . 
She lays up at the head of the bend . 
But I warn't born in her . 
'Now you're talking ! What did you come aboard here , for ? To steal ? 'No , sir , I didn't . 
It was only to get a ride on the raft . 
'Well , I know that . 
But what did you hide for ? 'Sometimes they drive the boys off . 
Looky here if we let you off this time , will you keep out of these kind of scrapes hereafter ? ''Deed I will , boss . 
You ain't but little ways from shore . 
Overboard with you , and don't you make a fool of yourself another time this way . 
Blast it , boy , some raftsmen would rawhide you till you were black and blue ! I didn't wait to kiss good bye , but went overboard and broke for shore . 
When Jim come along by and by , the big raft was away out of sight around the point . 
I swum out and got aboard , and was mighty glad to see home again . 
The boy did not get the information he was after , but his adventure has furnished the glimpse of the departed raftsman and keelboatman which I desire to offer in this place . 
I believe there has been nothing like it elsewhere in the world . 
Chapter The Boys' Ambition WHEN I was a boy , there was but one permanent ambition among my comrades in our village footnote . 
Hannibal , Missouri on the west bank of the Mississippi River . 
That was , to be a steamboatman . 
We had transient ambitions of other sorts , but they were only transient . 
These ambitions faded out , each in its turn but the ambition to be a steamboatman always remained . 
Once a day a cheap , gaudy packet arrived upward from St . 
Louis , and another downward from Keokuk . 
Before these events , the day was glorious with expectancy after them , the day was a dead and empty thing . 
Not only the boys , but the whole village , felt this . 
Drays , carts , men , boys , all go hurrying from many quarters to a common center , the wharf . 
Assembled there , the people fasten their eyes upon the coming boat as upon a wonder they are seeing for the first time . 
And the boat IS rather a handsome sight , too . 
After ten more minutes the town is dead again , and the town drunkard asleep by the skids once more . 
My father was a justice of the peace , and I supposed he possessed the power of life and death over all men and could hang anybody that offended him . 
This was distinction enough for me as a general thing but the desire to be a steamboatman kept intruding , nevertheless . 
But these were only day dreams , they were too heavenly to be contemplated as real possibilities . 
By and by one of our boys went away . 
He was not heard of for a long time . 
At last he turned up as apprentice engineer or 'striker' on a steamboat . 
This thing shook the bottom out of all my Sunday school teachings . 
That boy had been notoriously worldly , and I just the reverse yet he was exalted to this eminence , and I left in obscurity and misery . 
There was nothing generous about this fellow in his greatness . 
He would speak of the 'labboard' side of a horse in an easy , natural way that would make one wish he was dead . 
And he was always talking about 'St . 
Two or three of the boys had long been persons of consideration among us because they had been to St . 
Louis once and had a vague general knowledge of its wonders , but the day of their glory was over now . 
They lapsed into a humble silence , and learned to disappear when the ruthless 'cub' engineer approached . 
This fellow had money , too , and hair oil . 
Also an ignorant silver watch and a showy brass watch chain . 
He wore a leather belt and used no suspenders . 
If ever a youth was cordially admired and hated by his comrades , this one was . 
No girl could withstand his charms . 
He 'cut out' every boy in the village . 
When his boat blew up at last , it diffused a tranquil contentment among us such as we had not known for months . 
This creature's career could produce but one result , and it speedily followed . 
Boy after boy managed to get on the river . 
The minister's son became an engineer . 
Pilot was the grandest position of all . 
Two months of his wages would pay a preacher's salary for a year . 
Now some of us were left disconsolate . 
We could not get on the river at least our parents would not let us . 
So by and by I ran away . 
I said I never would come home again till I was a pilot and could come in glory . 
But somehow I could not manage it . 
I went meekly aboard a few of the boats that lay packed together like sardines at the long St . 
Louis wharf , and very humbly inquired for the pilots , but got only a cold shoulder and short words from mates and clerks . 
Chapter I Want to be a Cub pilot MONTHS afterward the hope within me struggled to a reluctant death , and I found myself without an ambition . 
But I was ashamed to go home . 
I was in Cincinnati , and I set to work to map out a new career . 
I had been reading about the recent exploration of the river Amazon by an expedition sent out by our government . 
It was only about fifteen hundred miles from Cincinnati to New Orleans , where I could doubtless get a ship . 
I had thirty dollars left I would go and complete the exploration of the Amazon . 
This was all the thought I gave to the subject . 
I never was great in matters of detail . 
I packed my valise , and took passage on an ancient tub called the 'Paul Jones , for New Orleans . 
When we presently got under way and went poking down the broad Ohio , I became a new being , and the subject of my own admiration . 
I was a traveler ! A word never had tasted so good in my mouth before . 
I had an exultant sense of being bound for mysterious lands and distant climes which I never have felt in so uplifting a degree since . 
If they did not seem to discover me , I presently sneezed to attract their attention , or moved to a position where they could not help seeing me . 
And as soon as I knew they saw me I gaped and stretched , and gave other signs of being mightily bored with traveling . 
I wished that the boys and girls at home could see me now . 
We reached Louisville in time at least the neighborhood of it . 
We stuck hard and fast on the rocks in the middle of the river , and lay there four days . 
I was now beginning to feel a strong sense of being a part of the boat's family , a sort of infant son to the captain and younger brother to the officers . 
There is no estimating the pride I took in this grandeur , or the affection that began to swell and grow in me for those people . 
I could not know how the lordly steamboatman scorns that sort of presumption in a mere landsman . 
I particularly longed to acquire the least trifle of notice from the big stormy mate , and I was on the alert for an opportunity to do him a service to that end . 
He stood and stared down at me . 
It took him ten seconds to scrape his disjointed remains together again . 
I crept away , and courted solitude for the rest of the day . 
I did not go to dinner I stayed away from supper until everybody else had finished . 
I did not feel so much like a member of the boat's family now as before . 
However , my spirits returned , in installments , as we pursued our way down the river . 
I was sorry I hated the mate so , because it was not in human nature not to admire him . 
When he was getting out cargo at a landing , I was always where I could see and hear . 
He felt all the majesty of his great position , and made the world feel it , too . 
When he gave even the simplest order , he discharged it like a blast of lightning , and sent a long , reverberating peal of profanity thundering after it . 
I could not help contrasting the way in which the average landsman would give an order , with the mate's way of doing it . 
Dash it to dash ! are you going to SLEEP over it ! 'VAST heaving . 
When the soreness of my adventure with the mate had somewhat worn off , I began timidly to make up to the humblest official connected with the boat the night watchman . 
He snubbed my advances at first , but I presently ventured to offer him a new chalk pipe and that softened him . 
So he allowed me to sit with him by the big bell on the hurricane deck , and in time he melted into conversation . 
He could not well have helped it , I hung with such homage on his words and so plainly showed that I felt honored by his notice . 
As he mellowed into his plaintive history his tears dripped upon the lantern in his lap , and I cried , too , from sympathy . 
But he probably died or forgot , for he never came . 
It was doubtless the former , since he had said his parents were wealthy , and he only traveled deck passage because it was cooler . 
I soon discovered two things . 
Therefore it followed that I must contrive a new career . 
The 'Paul Jones' was now bound for St . 
I planned a siege against my pilot , and at the end of three hard days he surrendered . 
He agreed to teach me the Mississippi River from New Orleans to St . 
Louis for five hundred dollars , payable out of the first wages I should receive after graduating . 
I entered upon the small enterprise of 'learning' twelve or thirteen hundred miles of the great Mississippi River with the easy confidence of my time of life . 
If I had really known what I was about to require of my faculties , I should not have had the courage to begin . 
The boat backed out from New Orleans at four in the afternoon , and it was 'our watch' until eight . 
In my own mind I resolved to be a down stream pilot and leave the up streaming to people dead to prudence . 
Now and then Mr. Bixby called my attention to certain things . 
Said he , 'This is Six Mile Point . 
It was pleasant enough information , but I could not see the bearing of it . 
I was not conscious that it was a matter of any interest to me . 
Another time he said , 'This is Nine Mile Point . 
Later he said , 'This is Twelve Mile Point . 
They were all about level with the water's edge they all looked about alike to me they were monotonously unpicturesque . 
I hoped Mr. Bixby would change the subject . 
He gave me the wheel once or twice , but I had no luck . 
I either came near chipping off the edge of a sugar plantation , or I yawed too far from shore , and so dropped back into disgrace again and got abused . 
The watch was ended at last , and we took supper and went to bed . 
At midnight the glare of a lantern shone in my eyes , and the night watchman said 'Come ! turn out ! And then he left . 
I could not understand this extraordinary procedure so I presently gave up trying to , and dozed off to sleep . 
Pretty soon the watchman was back again , and this time he was gruff . 
I said 'What do you want to come bothering around here in the middle of the night for . 
Now as like as not I'll not get to sleep again to night . 
The watchman said 'Well , if this an't good , I'm blest . 
Give him some sugar in a rag and send for the chambermaid to sing rock a by baby to him . 
About this time Mr. Bixby appeared on the scene . 
Something like a minute later I was climbing the pilot house steps with some of my clothes on and the rest in my arms . 
Mr. Bixby was close behind , commenting . 
Here was something fresh this thing of getting up in the middle of the night to go to work . 
It was a detail in piloting that had never occurred to me at all . 
I knew that boats ran all night , but somehow I had never happened to reflect that somebody had to get up out of a warm bed to run them . 
I began to fear that piloting was not quite so romantic as I had imagined it was there was something very real and work like about this new phase of it . 
It was a rather dingy night , although a fair number of stars were out . 
The big mate was at the wheel , and he had the old tub pointed at a star and was holding her straight up the middle of the river . 
The shores on either hand were not much more than half a mile apart , but they seemed wonderfully far away and ever so vague and indistinct . 
The mate said 'We've got to land at Jones's plantation , sir . 
The vengeful spirit in me exulted . 
Mr. Bixby said to the mate 'Upper end of the plantation , or the lower . 
The stumps there are out of water at this stage It's no great distance to the lower , and you'll have to get along with that . 
If Jones don't like it he'll have to lump it , I reckon . 
And then the mate left . 
My exultation began to cool and my wonder to come up . 
Here was a man who not only proposed to find this plantation on such a night , but to find either end of it you preferred . 
I dreadfully wanted to ask a question , but I was carrying about as many short answers as my cargo room would admit of , so I held my peace . 
I used to have fine inspirations of prudence in those days . 
Mr. Bixby made for the shore and soon was scraping it , just the same as if it had been daylight . 
And not only that , but singing 'Father in heaven , the day is declining , etc . 
It seemed to me that I had put my life in the keeping of a peculiarly reckless outcast . 
Presently he turned on me and said 'What's the name of the first point above New Orleans ? I was gratified to be able to answer promptly , and I did . 
I said I didn't know . 
'Don't KNOW ? This manner jolted me . 
I was down at the foot again , in a moment . 
But I had to say just what I had said before . 
'Well , you're a smart one , said Mr. Bixby . 
'What's the name of the NEXT point ? Once more I didn't know . 
'Well , this beats anything . 
Tell me the name of ANY point or place I told you . 
I studied a while and decided that I couldn't . 
'Look here ! What do you start out from , above Twelve Mile Point , to cross over ? 'I I don't know . 
'You you don't know ? mimicking my drawling manner of speech . 
'What DO you know ? 'I I nothing , for certain . 
Oh , but his wrath was up ! He was a nervous man , and he shuffled from one side of his wheel to the other as if the floor was hot . 
He would boil a while to himself , and then overflow and scald me again . 
This was a red rag to the bull . 
that I judge it made him blind , because he ran over the steering oar of a trading scow . 
Of course the traders sent up a volley of red hot profanity . 
Never was a man so grateful as Mr. Bixby was because he was brim full , and here were subjects who would TALK BACK . 
He threw open a window , thrust his head out , and such an irruption followed as I never had heard before . 
The fainter and farther away the scowmen's curses drifted , the higher Mr. Bixby lifted his voice and the weightier his adjectives grew . 
When he closed the window he was empty . 
You could have drawn a seine through his system and not caught curses enough to disturb your mother with . 
There's only one way to be a pilot , and that is to get this entire river by heart . 
You have to know it just like A B C. That was a dismal revelation to me for my memory was never loaded with anything but blank cartridges . 
However , I did not feel discouraged long . 
I judged that it was best to make some allowances , for doubtless Mr. Bixby was 'stretching . 
Presently he pulled a rope and struck a few strokes on the big bell . 
The stars were all gone now , and the night was as black as ink . 
I could hear the wheels churn along the bank , but I was not entirely certain that I could see the shore . 
The voice of the invisible watchman called up from the hurricane deck 'What's this , sir ? 'Jones's plantation . 
I said to myself , I wish I might venture to offer a small bet that it isn't . 
But I did not chirp . 
I only waited to see . 
And I fully believed it was an accident , too . 
Louis I had made a trifle of progress in night work , but only a trifle . 
I had a note book that fairly bristled with the names of towns , 'points , bars , islands , bends , reaches , etc . 
but the information was to be found only in the notebook none of it was in my head . 
My chief was presently hired to go on a big New Orleans boat , and I packed my satchel and went with him . 
She was a grand affair . 
There were other differences , too . 
Now this was 'something like , and so I began to take heart once more to believe that piloting was a romantic sort of occupation after all . 
The moment we were under way I began to prowl about the great steamer and fill myself with joy . 
The fires were fiercely glaring from a long row of furnaces , and over them were eight huge boilers ! This was unutterable pomp . 
The mighty engines but enough of this . 
I had never felt so fine before . 
And when I found that the regiment of natty servants respectfully 'sir'd' me , my satisfaction was complete . 
Chapter A Daring Deed WHEN I returned to the pilot house St . 
Louis was gone and I was lost . 
Here was a piece of river which was all down in my book , but I could make neither head nor tail of it you understand , it was turned around . 
I had seen it when coming up stream , but I had never faced about to see how it looked when it was behind me . 
My heart broke again , for it was plain that I had got to learn this troublesome river BOTH WAYS . 
The pilot house was full of pilots , going down to 'look at the river . 
it was cheaper to 'look at the river' than stay ashore and pay board . 
In time these fellows grew dainty in their tastes , and only infested boats that had an established reputation for setting good tables . 
They were likewise welcome because all pilots are tireless talkers , when gathered together , and as they talk only about the river they are always understood and are always interesting . 
Your true pilot cares nothing about anything on earth but the river , and his pride in his occupation surpasses the pride of kings . 
We had a fine company of these river inspectors along , this trip . 
There were eight or ten and there was abundance of room for them in our great pilot house . 
Two or three of them wore polished silk hats , elaborate shirt fronts , diamond breast pins , kid gloves , and patent leather boots . 
They were choice in their English , and bore themselves with a dignity proper to men of solid means and prodigious reputation as pilots . 
The others were more or less loosely clad , and wore upon their heads tall felt cones that were suggestive of the days of the Commonwealth . 
I was a cipher in this august company , and felt subdued , not to say torpid . 
I stood in a corner and the talk I listened to took the hope all out of me . 
'Pretty square crossing , an't it ? 'Yes , but the upper bar 's working down fast . 
One of the gorgeous ones remarked 'I don't want to find fault with your leadsmen , but that's a good deal of water for Plum Point , it seems to me . 
There was an approving nod all around as this quiet snub dropped on the boaster and 'settled' him . 
And so they went on talk talk talking . 
, and the captain emerged from his drawing room in the forward end of the texas , and looked up inquiringly . 
Mr. Bixby said 'We will lay up here all night , captain . 
The boat came to shore and was tied up for the night . 
It seemed to me a fine thing that the pilot could do as he pleased , without asking so grand a captain's permission . 
I took my supper and went immediately to bed , discouraged by my day's observations and experiences . 
My late voyage's note booking was but a confusion of meaningless names . 
It had tangled me all up in a knot every time I had looked at it in the daytime . 
I now hoped for respite in sleep but no , it reveled all through my head till sunrise again , a frantic and tireless nightmare . 
Next morning I felt pretty rusty and low spirited . 
We went booming along , taking a good many chances , for we were anxious to 'get out of the river' before night should overtake us . 
This was a great misfortune , especially to certain of our visiting pilots , whose boats would have to wait for their return , no matter how long that might be . 
It sobered the pilot house talk a good deal . 
Coming up stream , pilots did not mind low water or any kind of darkness nothing stopped them but fog . 
But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at night . 
We were standing no regular watches . 
An hour before sunset , Mr. Bixby took the wheel and Mr. W stepped aside . 
For the next thirty minutes every man held his watch in his hand and was restless , silent , and uneasy . 
At last somebody said , with a doomful sigh 'Well , yonder's Hat Island and we can't make it . 
Some started to go out , but loitered , hearing no bell tap to land . 
The sun dipped behind the horizon , the boat went on . 
We bore steadily down the bend . 
More looks were exchanged , and nods of surprised admiration but no words . 
Insensibly the men drew together behind Mr. Bixby , as the sky darkened and one or two dim stars came out . 
The dead silence and sense of waiting became oppressive . 
Mr. Bixby pulled the cord , and two deep , mellow notes from the big bell floated off on the night . 
Then a pause , and one more note was struck . 
'M a r k three ! . 
M a r k three ! . 
M a r k twain ! . 
Quarter less Mr. Bixby pulled two bell ropes , and was answered by faint jinglings far below in the engine room , and our speed slackened . 
The steam began to whistle through the gauge cocks . 
The cries of the leadsmen went on and it is a weird sound , always , in the night . 
Every pilot in the lot was watching now , with fixed eyes , and talking under his breath . 
Nobody was calm and easy but Mr. Bixby . 
utterly invisible marks for we seemed to be in the midst of a wide and gloomy sea he would meet and fasten her there . 
Not that I could see the boat drift , for I could not , the stars being all gone by this time . 
This drifting was the dismalest work it held one's heart still . 
Presently I discovered a blacker gloom than that which surrounded us . 
It was the head of the island . 
We were closing right down upon it . 
But still Mr. Bixby stood by his wheel , silent , intent as a cat , and all the pilots stood shoulder to shoulder at his back . 
'She'll not make it ! somebody whispered . 
The water grew shoaler and shoaler , by the leadsman's cries , till it was down to 'Eight and a half ! . 
E i g h t feet ! . 
E i g h t feet ! . 
Mr. Bixby was a hero that night and it was some little time , too , before his exploit ceased to be talked about by river men . 
The last remark I heard that night was a compliment to Mr. Bixby , uttered in soliloquy and with unction by one of our guests . 
But of course my complacency could hardly get start enough to lift my nose a trifle into the air , before Mr. Bixby would think of something to fetch it down again . 
One day he turned on me suddenly with this settler 'What is the shape of Walnut Bend ? He might as well have asked me my grandmother's opinion of protoplasm . 
I reflected respectfully , and then said I didn't know it had any particular shape . 
My gunpowdery chief went off with a bang , of course , and then went on loading and firing until he was out of adjectives . 
That word 'old' is merely affectionate he was not more than thirty four . 
By and by he said 'My boy , you've got to know the SHAPE of the river perfectly . 
It is all there is left to steer by on a very dark night . 
Everything else is blotted out and gone . 
But mind you , it hasn't the same shape in the night that it has in the day time . 
'How on earth am I ever going to learn it , then ? 'How do you follow a hall at home in the dark . 
Because you know the shape of it . 
'I wish I was dead ! 'Now I don't want to discourage you , but 'Well , pile it on me I might as well have it now as another time . 
'You see , this has got to be learned there isn't any getting around it . 
You would be fifty yards from shore all the time when you ought to be within fifty feet of it . 
You can't see a snag in one of those shadows , but you know exactly where it is , and the shape of the river tells you when you are coming to it . 
Then there's your pitch dark night the river is a very different shape on a pitch dark night from what it is on a starlight night . 
All shores seem to be straight lines , then , and mighty dim ones , too and you'd RUN them for straight lines only you know better . 
, and that wall falls back and makes way for you . 
Then there's your gray mist . 
You take a night when there's one of these grisly , drizzly , gray mists , and then there isn't any particular shape to a shore . 
A gray mist would tangle the head of the oldest man that ever lived . 
Well , then , different kinds of MOONLIGHT change the shape of the river in different ways . 
'Very well , I'll try it but after I have learned it can I depend on it . 
The banks are caving and the shape of the shores changing like everything . 
Why , you wouldn't know the point above . 
You can go up inside the old sycamore snag , now . 
It may not be necessary , but still it can do no harm to explain that 'inside' means between the snag and the shore . 
M. T. So that question was answered . 
Here were leagues of shore changing shape . 
My spirits were down in the mud again . 
Two things seemed pretty apparent to me . 
That night we had the watch until twelve . 
Now it was an ancient river custom for the two pilots to chat a bit when the watch changed . 
'Quarter twain' is two and a quarter fathoms , thirteen and a half feet . 
'Mark three' is three fathoms . 
'Yes , I thought it was making down a little , last trip . 
Meet any boats ? 'Met one abreast the head of , but she was away over hugging the bar , and I couldn't make her out entirely . 
I took her for the Sunny South hadn't any skylights forward of the chimneys . 
And as the relieving pilot took the wheel his partner footnote 'Partner' is a technical term for 'the other pilot' . 
would mention that we were in such and such a bend , and say we were abreast of such and such a man's wood yard or plantation . 
This was courtesy I supposed it was necessity . 
But Mr. W came on watch full twelve minutes late on this particular night , a tremendous breach of etiquette in fact , it is the unpardonable sin among pilots . 
So Mr. Bixby gave him no greeting whatever , but simply surrendered the wheel and marched out of the pilot house without a word . 
But I resolved that I would stand by him any way . 
He should find that he was not wholly friendless . 
So I stood around , and waited to be asked where we were . 
But Mr. W plunged on serenely through the solid firmament of black cats that stood for an atmosphere , and never opened his mouth . 
I presently climbed up on the bench I did not think it was safe to go to sleep while this lunatic was on watch . 
So it was four o'clock and all well but me I felt like a skinful of dry bones and all of them trying to ache at once . 
Mr. Bixby asked me what I had stayed up there for . 
I confessed that it was to do Mr. W a benevolence , tell him where he was . 
He said , 'Well , taking you by and large , you do seem to be more different kinds of an ass than any creature I ever saw before . 
What did you suppose he wanted to know for ? I said I thought it might be a convenience to him . 
Then I'm glad I never said anything to Mr. W 'I should say so . 
Why , he'd have slammed you through the window and utterly ruined a hundred dollars' worth of window sash and stuff . 
I was glad this damage had been saved , for it would have made me unpopular with the owners . 
They always hated anybody who had the name of being careless , and injuring things . 
Nothing ever had the same shape when I was coming downstream that it had borne when I went up . 
I mentioned these little difficulties to Mr. Bixby . 
He said 'That's the very main virtue of the thing . 
If the shapes didn't change every three seconds they wouldn't be of any use . 
Take this place where we are now , for instance . 
If that hill didn't change its shape on bad nights there would be an awful steamboat grave yard around here inside of a year . 
So I set about it . 
In the course of time I began to get the best of this knotty lesson , and my self complacency moved to the front once more . 
Mr. Bixby was all fixed , and ready to start it to the rear again . 
He opened on me after this fashion 'How much water did we have in the middle crossing at Hole in the Wall , trip before last ? I considered this an outrage . 
I said 'Every trip , down and up , the leadsmen are singing through that tangled place for three quarters of an hour on a stretch . 
How do you reckon I can remember such a mess as that ? 'My boy , you've got to remember it . 
You've got to remember the exact spot and the exact marks the boat lay in when we had the shoalest water , in everyone of the five hundred shoal places between St . 
You must keep them separate . 
I want to retire from this business . 
I want a slush bucket and a brush I'm only fit for a roustabout . 
I haven't got brains enough to be a pilot and if I had I wouldn't have strength enough to carry them around , unless I went on crutches . 
'Now drop that ! When I say I'll learn footnote 'Teach' is not in the river vocabulary . 
a man the river , I mean it . 
And you can depend on it , I'll learn him or kill him . 
Chapter Continued Perplexities THERE was no use in arguing with a person like this . 
I promptly put such a strain on my memory that by and by even the shoal water and the countless crossing marks began to stay with me . 
But the result was just the same . 
I never could more than get one knotty thing learned before another presented itself . 
Now I had often seen pilots gazing at the water and pretending to read it as if it were a book but it was a book that told me nothing . 
A time came at last , however , when Mr. Bixby seemed to think me far enough advanced to bear a lesson on water reading . 
So he began 'Do you see that long slanting line on the face of the water ? Now , that's a reef . 
Moreover , it's a bluff reef . 
There is a solid sand bar under it that is nearly as straight up and down as the side of a house . 
There is plenty of water close up to it , but mighty little on top of it . 
If you were to hit it you would knock the boat's brains out . 
Do you see where the line fringes out at the upper end and begins to fade away ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Well , that is a low place that is the head of the reef . 
You can climb over there , and not hurt anything . 
Cross over , now , and follow along close under the reef easy water there not much current . 
I followed the reef along till I approached the fringed end . 
Then Mr. Bixby said 'Now get ready . 
Wait till I give the word . 
She won't want to mount the reef a boat hates shoal water . 
Stand by wait WAIT keep her well in hand . 
'Now watch her watch her like a cat , or she'll get away from you . 
Do you see those fine lines on the face of the water that branch out like the ribs of a fan . 
Well , those are little reefs you want to just miss the ends of them , but run them pretty close . 
Now look out look out ! Don't you crowd that slick , greasy looking place there ain't nine feet there she won't stand it . 
We were a good mile from where we ought to have been , when we finally got the upper hand of her again . 
During the afternoon watch the next day , Mr. Bixby asked me if I knew how to run the next few miles . 
I'll be back before you close up on the next point . 
He was still below when I rounded it and entered upon a piece of river which I had some misgivings about . 
I did not know that he was hiding behind a chimney to see how I would perform . 
I went gaily along , getting prouder and prouder , for he had never left the boat in my sole charge such a length of time before . 
The awful crash was imminent why didn't that villain come ! If I committed the crime of ringing a bell , I might get thrown overboard . 
But better that than kill the boat . 
So in blind desperation I started such a rattling 'shivaree' down below as never had astounded an engineer in this world before , I fancy . 
Just then Mr. Bixby stepped calmly into view on the hurricane deck . 
My soul went out to him in gratitude . 
My distress vanished I would have felt safe on the brink of Niagara , with Mr. Bixby on the hurricane deck . 
Set her back on both . 
The boat hesitated , halted , pressed her nose among the boughs a critical instant , then reluctantly began to back away . 
Point her for the bar . 
I blushed under the sarcasm , and said I hadn't had any hail . 
'Ah ! Then it was for wood , I suppose . 
The officer of the watch will tell you when he wants to wood up . 
I went on consuming and said I wasn't after wood . 
I was getting away from a bluff reef . 
'No , it wasn't a bluff reef there isn't one within three miles of where you were . 
It was as bluff as that one yonder . 
Run over it ! 'Do you give it as an order ? 'Yes . 
'If I don't , I wish I may die . 
'All right I am taking the responsibility . 
I was just as anxious to kill the boat , now , as I had been to save her before . 
I impressed my orders upon my memory , to be used at the inquest , and made a straight break for the reef . 
As it disappeared under our bows I held my breath but we slid over it like oil . 
'Now don't you see the difference ? It wasn't anything but a WIND reef . 
But it is exactly like a bluff reef . 
How am I ever going to tell them apart ? 'I can't tell you . 
And it was not a book to be read once and thrown aside , for it had a new story to tell every day . 
There never was so wonderful a book written by man never one whose interest was so absorbing , so unflagging , so sparkingly renewed with every re perusal . 
It is the faintest and simplest expression the water ever makes , and the most hideous to a pilot's eye . 
But I had lost something , too . 
I had lost something which could never be restored to me while I lived . 
I stood like one bewitched . 
I drank it in , in a speechless rapture . 
The world was new to me , and I had never seen anything like this at home . 
No , the romance and the beauty were all gone from the river . 
All the value any feature of it had for me now was the amount of usefulness it could furnish toward compassing the safe piloting of a steamboat . 
Since those days , I have pitied doctors from my heart . 
What does the lovely flush in a beauty's cheek mean to a doctor but a 'break' that ripples above some deadly disease . 
It was the prime purpose of those chapters and I am not quite done yet . 
I wish to show , in the most patient and painstaking way , what a wonderful science it is . 
footnote True at the time referred to not true now . 
When I had learned the name and position of every visible feature of the river when I had so mastered its shape that I could shut my eyes and trace it from St . 
Mr. Bixby had his eye on these airs . 
One day he said 'What is the height of that bank yonder , at Burgess's ? 'How can I tell , sir . 
It is three quarters of a mile away . 
'Very poor eye very poor . 
I took the glass , and presently said 'I can't tell . 
I suppose that that bank is about a foot and a half high . 
'Foot and a half ! That's a six foot bank . 
How high was the bank along here last trip ? 'I don't know I never noticed . 
'You didn't ? Well , you must always do it hereafter . 
'Why ? 'Because you'll have to know a good many things that it tells you . 
For one thing , it tells you the stage of the river tells you whether there's more water or less in the river along here than there was last trip . 
'The leads tell me that . 
I rather thought I had the advantage of him there . 
'Yes , but suppose the leads lie ? The bank would tell you so , and then you'd stir those leadsmen up a bit . 
There was a ten foot bank here last trip , and there is only a six foot bank now . 
What does that signify ? 'That the river is four feet higher than it was last trip . 
Is the river rising or falling ? 'Rising . 
'I guess I am right , sir . 
Yonder is some drift wood floating down the stream . 
'A rise starts the drift wood , but then it keeps on floating a while after the river is done rising . 
Now the bank will tell you about this . 
Wait till you come to a place where it shelves a little . 
Now here do you see this narrow belt of fine sediment That was deposited while the water was higher . 
You see the driftwood begins to strand , too . 
The bank helps in other ways . 
Do you see that stump on the false point ? 'Ay , ay , sir . 
'Well , the water is just up to the roots of it . 
You must make a note of that . 
'Why ? 'Because that means that there's seven feet in the chute of . 
'But is a long way up the river yet . 
'That's where the benefit of the bank comes in . 
There is water enough in NOW , yet there may not be by the time we get there but the bank will keep us posted all along . 
You don't run close chutes on a falling river , up stream , and there are precious few of them that you are allowed to run at all down stream . 
There's a law of the United States against it . 
The river may be rising by the time we get to , and in that case we'll run it . 
We are drawing how much ? 'Six feet aft , six and a half forward . 
'Well , you do seem to know something . 
Presently I said And how about these chutes . 
Are there many of them ? 'I should say so . 
I fancy we shan't run any of the river this trip as you've ever seen it run before so to speak . 
'Then I've got to go to work and learn just as much more river as I already know . 
'Just about twice as much more , as near as you can come at it . 
'Well , one lives to find out . 
I think I was a fool when I went into this business . 
'Yes , that is true . 
But you'll not be when you've learned it . 
'Ah , I never can learn it . 
'I will see that you DO . 
There are about fifty of these cracks which you can't run at all except when the river is brim full and over the banks . 
'This new lesson is a cheerful prospect . 
And mind what I've just told you when you start into one of those places you've got to go through . 
They are too narrow to turn around in , too crooked to back out of , and the shoal water is always up at the head never elsewhere . 
'Learn a new set , then , every year ? 'Exactly . 
Cramp her up to the bar ! What are you standing up through the middle of the river for ? The next few months showed me strange things . 
On the same day that we held the conversation above narrated , we met a great rise coming down the river . 
The whole vast face of the stream was black with drifting dead logs , broken boughs , and great trees that had caved in and been washed away . 
We often hit WHITE logs , in the dark , for we could not see them till we were right on them but a black log is a pretty distinct object at night . 
A white snag is an ugly customer when the daylight is gone . 
Pilots bore a mortal hatred to these craft and it was returned with usury . 
The law required all such helpless traders to keep a light burning , but it was a law that was often broken . 
Once a coalboatman sent a bullet through our pilot house , when we borrowed a steering oar of him in a very narrow place . 
Chapter The River Rises DURING this big rise these small fry craft were an intolerable nuisance . 
And then there would be no end of profane cordialities exchanged . 
You will hardly believe it , but many steamboat clerks always carried a large assortment of religious tracts with them in those old departed steamboating days . 
Now a skiff would dart away from one of them , and come fighting its laborious way across the desert of water . 
It would 'ease all , in the shadow of our forecastle , and the panting oarsmen would shout , 'Gimme a pa a per ! as the skiff drifted swiftly astern . 
The clerk would throw over a file of New Orleans journals . 
If these were picked up without comment , you might notice that now a dozen other skiffs had been drifting down upon us without saying anything . 
You understand , they had been waiting to see how No. was going to fare . 
As I have said , the big rise brought a new world under my vision . 
Some of these chutes were utter solitudes . 
The dense , untouched forest overhung both banks of the crooked little crack , and one could believe that human creatures had never intruded there before . 
And yet these were kindly dispensations , for they at least enabled the poor things to rise from the dead now and then , and look upon life when a steamboat went by . 
They appreciated the blessing , too , for they spread their mouths and eyes wide open and made the most of these occasions . 
This will serve to show how narrow some of the chutes were . 
The passengers had an hour's recreation in a virgin wilderness , while the boat hands chopped the bridge away for there was no such thing as turning back , you comprehend . 
The river is more than a mile wide , and very deep as much as two hundred feet , in places . 
The timber is shorn off clear to the rear of the plantations , from two to four miles . 
When the first frost threatens to come , the planters snatch off their crops in a hurry . 
into great piles and set fire to them , though in other sugar countries the bagasse is used for fuel in the furnaces of the sugar mills . 
Now the piles of damp bagasse burn slowly , and smoke like Satan's own kitchen . 
The plantations themselves are transformed by the smoke , and look like a part of the sea . 
All through your watch you are tortured with the exquisite misery of uncertainty . 
You hope you are keeping in the river , but you do not know . 
All that you are sure about is that you are likely to be within six feet of the bank and destruction , when you think you are a good half mile from shore . 
One of the great Vicksburg packets darted out into a sugar plantation one night , at such a time , and had to stay there a week . 
But there was no novelty about it it had often been done before . 
I thought I had finished this chapter , but I wish to add a curious thing , while it is in my mind . 
It is only relevant in that it is connected with piloting . 
There used to be an excellent pilot on the river , a Mr. X. , who was a somnambulist . 
It was said that if his mind was troubled about a bad piece of river , he was pretty sure to get up and walk in his sleep and do strange things . 
He was once fellow pilot for a trip or two with George Ealer , on a great New Orleans passenger packet . 
During a considerable part of the first trip George was uneasy , but got over it by and by , as X. seemed content to stay in his bed when asleep . 
Late one night the boat was approaching Helena , Arkansas the water was low , and the crossing above the town in a very blind and tangled condition . 
Then no light whatever issues from the boat . 
The undefinable shape that now entered the pilot house had Mr. X. 's voice . 
'It is kind of you , and I swear I am willing . 
I haven't got another drop of perspiration left in me . 
I have been spinning around and around the wheel like a squirrel . 
It is so dark I can't tell which way she is swinging till she is coming around like a whirligig . 
So Ealer took a seat on the bench , panting and breathless . 
X. said nothing , but went serenely on with his work . 
There was no reply , and he added 'Just hold her five minutes longer , partner , and let me run down and get a cup of coffee . 
A minute later Ealer was biting into a pie , down in the 'texas , and comforting himself with coffee . 
Just then the night watchman happened in , and was about to happen out again , when he noticed Ealer and exclaimed 'Who is at the wheel , sir ? 'X . 
'Well , I think I'll stay by , next time he has one of those fits . 
But I hope he'll have them often . 
You just ought to have seen him take this boat through Helena crossing . 
I never saw anything so gaudy before . 
We used to have to 'sound' a number of particularly bad places almost every trip when the river was at a very low stage . 
Sounding is done in this way . 
The whistle signals are seldom necessary , however never , perhaps , except when the wind confuses the significant ripples upon the water's surface . 
If the pilot is not satisfied , he sounds the place again if he finds better water higher up or lower down , he removes the buoy to that place . 
Or maybe she doesn't maybe she 'strikes and swings . 
Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all , but the yawl goes ahead , hunting the best water , and the steamer follows along in its wake . 
Often there is a deal of fun and excitement about sounding , especially if it is a glorious summer day , or a blustering night . 
But in winter the cold and the peril take most of the fun out of it . 
It is anchored on the shoalest part of the reef by a rope with a heavy stone made fast to the end of it . 
But for the resistance of the turned up end of the reversed bench , the current would pull the buoy under water . 
Nothing delights a cub so much as an opportunity to go out sounding . 
One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time in our pilot house with her uncle and aunt , every day and all day long . 
I fell in love with her . 
So did Mr. Thornburg's cub , Tom G . 
Tom and I had been bosom friends until this time but now a coolness began to arise . 
However , virtue is its own reward , so I was a barely perceptible trifle ahead in the contest . 
About this time something happened which promised handsomely for me the pilots decided to sound the crossing at the head of . 
We tied up at the shore above , and got ready . 
It was a foul night , and the river was so wide , there , that a landsman's uneducated eyes could discern no opposite shore through such a gloom . 
The passengers were alert and interested everything was satisfactory . 
I was going after it , but I'd see you in Halifax , now , before I'd do it . 
'Who wants you to get it ? I don't . 
It's in the sounding boat . 
It's been new painted and it's been up on the ladies' cabin guards two days , drying . 
I went off , full of venom , to help in the pilot house . 
By and by the boat's lantern disappeared , and after an interval a wee spark glimmered upon the face of the water a mile away . 
Mr. Thornburg blew the whistle , in acknowledgment , backed the steamer out , and made for it . 
We flew along for a while , then slackened steam and went cautiously gliding toward the spark . 
Presently Mr. Thornburg exclaimed 'Hello , the buoy lantern's out ! He stopped the engines . 
A moment or two later he said 'Why , there it is again ! So he came ahead on the engines once more , and rang for the leads . 
Gradually the water shoaled up , and then began to deepen again ! Mr. Thornburg muttered 'Well , I don't understand this . 
I believe that buoy has drifted off the reef . 
Seems to be a little too far to the left . 
No matter , it is safest to run over it anyhow . 
So , in that solid world of darkness we went creeping down on the light . 
My chief and the third mate and nearly all the men were safe . 
The next moment the sounding yawl swept aft to the wheel and was struck and splintered to atoms . 
Two of the men and the cub Tom , were missing a fact which spread like wildfire over the boat . 
The passengers came flocking to the forward gangway , ladies and all , anxious eyed , white faced , and talked in awed voices of the dreadful thing . 
Now a faint call was heard , off to the left . 
The yawl had disappeared in the other direction . 
Half the people rushed to one side to encourage the swimmer with their shouts the other half rushed the other way to shriek to the yawl to turn about . 
By the callings , the swimmer was approaching , but some said the sound showed failing strength . 
It was that devil Tom . 
The yawl crew searched everywhere , but found no sign of the two men . 
They probably failed to catch the guard , tumbled back , and were struck by the wheel and killed . 
Tom had never jumped for the guard at all , but had plunged head first into the river and dived under the wheel . 
That girl couldn't seem to have enough of that pitiful 'hero' the rest of the trip but little I cared I loathed her , any way . 
The way we came to mistake the sounding boat's lantern for the buoy light was this . 
First of all , there is one faculty which a pilot must incessantly cultivate until he has brought it to absolute perfection . 
Nothing short of perfection will do . 
He cannot stop with merely thinking a thing is so and so he must know it for this is eminently one of the 'exact' sciences . 
I think a pilot's memory is about the most wonderful thing in the world . 
I make this comparison deliberately , and believe I am not expanding the truth when I do it . 
Many will think my figure too strong , but pilots will not . 
But you could if your memory had been patiently and laboriously trained to do that sort of thing mechanically . 
Give a man a tolerably fair memory to start with , and piloting will develop it into a very colossus of capability . 
But ONLY IN THE MATTERS IT IS DAILY DRILLED IN . 
Astonishing things can be done with the human memory if you will devote it faithfully to one particular line of business . 
Mr. Bixby placed me as steersman for a while under a pilot whose feats of memory were a constant marvel to me . 
However , his memory was born in him , I think , not built . 
For instance , somebody would mention a name . 
Instantly Mr. Brown would break in 'Oh , I knew HIM . 
Sallow faced , red headed fellow , with a little scar on the side of his throat , like a splinter under the flesh . 
He was only in the Southern trade six months . 
That was thirteen years ago . 
I made a trip with him . 
Captain Hardy stuck a nail in his foot the th of July of the next year , and died of the lockjaw on the th . 
His brother died two years after rd of March , erysipelas . 
I never saw either of the Hardys , they were Alleghany River men , but people who knew them told me all these things . 
It was in the blood . 
She was from Lexington , Kentucky . 
Name was Horton before she was married . 
And so on , by the hour , the man's tongue would go . 
He could NOT forget any thing . 
The most trivial details remained as distinct and luminous in his head , after they had lain there for years , as the most memorable events . 
His was not simply a pilot's memory its grasp was universal . 
If he were talking about a trifling letter he had received seven years before , he was pretty sure to deliver you the entire screed from memory . 
Such a memory as that is a great misfortune . 
To it , all occurrences are of the same size . 
Its possessor cannot distinguish an interesting circumstance from an uninteresting one . 
As a talker , he is bound to clog his narrative with tiresome details and make himself an insufferable bore . 
Moreover , he cannot stick to his subject . 
He picks up every little grain of memory he discerns in his way , and so is led aside . 
Mr. Brown would start out with the honest intention of telling you a vastly funny anecdote about a dog . 
And the original first mention would be all you had learned about that dog , after all this waiting and hungering . 
A pilot must have a memory but there are two higher qualities which he must also have . 
He must have good and quick judgment and decision , and a cool , calm courage that no peril can shake . 
Judgment is a matter of brains , and a man must START with a good stock of that article or he will never succeed as a pilot . 
He discovers that the article has been left out of his own cargo altogether . 
Therefore pilots wisely train these cubs by various strategic tricks to look danger in the face a little more calmly . 
A favorite way of theirs is to play a friendly swindle upon the candidate . 
Mr. Bixby served me in this fashion once , and for years afterward I used to blush even in my sleep when I thought of it . 
The idea of being afraid of any crossing in the lot , in the DAY TIME , was a thing too preposterous for contemplation . 
I suppose you know the next crossing ? This was almost an affront . 
It was about the plainest and simplest crossing in the whole river . 
One couldn't come to any harm , whether he ran it right or not and as for depth , there never had been any bottom there . 
I knew all this , perfectly well . 
'Know how to RUN it ? Why , I can run it with my eyes shut . 
'How much water is there in it ? 'Well , that is an odd question . 
I couldn't get bottom there with a church steeple . 
'You think so , do you ? The very tone of the question shook my confidence . 
That was what Mr. Bixby was expecting . 
He left , without saying anything more . 
I began to imagine all sorts of things . 
Presently the captain stepped out on the hurricane deck next the chief mate appeared then a clerk . 
Every moment or two a straggler was added to my audience and before I got to the head of the island I had fifteen or twenty people assembled down there under my nose . 
I began to wonder what the trouble was . 
As I started across , the captain glanced aloft at me and said , with a sham uneasiness in his voice 'Where is Mr. Bixby ? 'Gone below , sir . 
But that did the business for me . 
My imagination began to construct dangers out of nothing , and they multiplied faster than I could keep the run of them . 
All at once I imagined I saw shoal water ahead ! The wave of coward agony that surged through me then came near dislocating every joint in me . 
All my confidence in that crossing vanished . 
Captain and mate sang out instantly , and both together 'Starboard lead there ! and quick about it ! This was another shock . 
Then came the leadsman's sepulchral cry 'D e e p four ! Deep four in a bottomless crossing ! The terror of it took my breath away . 
'M a r k three ! . 
M a r k three . 
Half twain ! This was frightful ! I seized the bell ropes and stopped the engines . 
'Quarter twain ! Quarter twain ! MARK twain ! I was helpless . 
I did not know what in the world to do . 
I was quaking from head to foot , and I could have hung my hat on my eyes , they stuck out so far . 
'Quarter LESS twain ! Nine and a HALF ! We were DRAWING nine ! My hands were in a nerveless flutter . 
I could not ring a bell intelligibly with them . 
I looked around , and there stood Mr. Bixby , smiling a bland , sweet smile . 
Then the audience on the hurricane deck sent up a thundergust of humiliating laughter . 
I saw it all , now , and I felt meaner than the meanest man in human history . 
'Well , no , you won't , maybe . 
In fact I hope you won't for I want you to learn something by that experience . 
Didn't you KNOW there was no bottom in that crossing ? 'Yes , sir , I did . 
You shouldn't have allowed me or anybody else to shake your confidence in that knowledge . 
And another thing when you get into a dangerous place , don't turn coward . 
That isn't going to help matters any . 
It was a good enough lesson , but pretty hardly learned . 
Yet about the hardest part of it was that for months I so often had to hear a phrase which I had conceived a particular distaste for . 
The reason is plain a pilot , in those days , was the only unfettered and entirely independent human being that lived in the earth . 
We write frankly and fearlessly , but then we 'modify' before we print . 
In truth , every man and woman and child has a master , and worries and frets in servitude but in the day I write of , the Mississippi pilot had none . 
The moment that the boat was under way in the river , she was under the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot . 
His movements were entirely free he consulted no one , he received commands from nobody , he promptly resented even the merest suggestions . 
So here was the novelty of a king without a keeper , an absolute monarch who was absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of words . 
His interference , in that particular instance , might have been an excellent thing , but to permit it would have been to establish a most pernicious precedent . 
It will easily be guessed , considering the pilot's boundless authority , that he was a great personage in the old steamboating days . 
He was treated with marked courtesy by the captain and with marked deference by all the officers and servants and this deferential spirit was quickly communicated to the passengers , too . 
I think pilots were about the only people I ever knew who failed to show , in some degree , embarrassment in the presence of traveling foreign princes . 
But then , people in one's own grade of life are not usually embarrassing objects . 
By long habit , pilots came to put all their wishes in the form of commands . 
It 'gravels' me , to this day , to put my will in the weak shape of a request , instead of launching it in the crisp language of an order . 
In those old days , to load a steamboat at St . 
Louis , take her to New Orleans and back , and discharge cargo , consumed about twenty five days , on an average . 
Seven or eight of these days the boat spent at the wharves of St . 
When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly high reputation , he took pains to keep him . 
And one must remember that in those cheap times four hundred dollars was a salary of almost inconceivable splendor . 
Few men on shore got such pay as that , and when they did they were mightily looked up to . 
When pilots from either end of the river wandered into our small Missouri village , they were sought by the best and the fairest , and treated with exalted respect . 
, and got nine hundred dollars a trip , which was equivalent to about eighteen hundred dollars a month . 
Here is a conversation of that day . 
How much will it be ? 'Eighteen hundred dollars apiece . 
according to the dignity of the boat they were on . 
For instance , it was a proud thing to be of the crew of such stately craft as the 'Aleck Scott' or the 'Grand Turk . 
Negro firemen , deck hands , and barbers belonging to those boats were distinguished personages in their grade of life , and they were well aware of that fact too . 
A stalwart darkey once gave offense at a negro ball in New Orleans by putting on a good many airs . 
The barber of the 'Grand Turk' was a spruce young negro , who aired his importance with balmy complacency , and was greatly courted by the circle in which he moved . 
The young colored population of New Orleans were much given to flirting , at twilight , on the banquettes of the back streets . 
Somebody saw and heard something like the following , one evening , in one of those localities . 
He was a gifted pilot , a good fellow , a tireless talker , and had both wit and humor in him . 
He had a most irreverent independence , too , and was deliciously easy going and comfortable in the presence of age , official dignity , and even the most august wealth . 
He could throw a sort of splendor around a bit of harum scarum , devil may care piloting , that made it almost fascinating but not to everybody . 
He made a trip with good old Captain Y once , and was 'relieved' from duty when the boat got to New Orleans . 
Somebody expressed surprise at the discharge . 
Captain Y shuddered at the mere mention of Stephen . 
All times of the night it never made any difference to him . 
He would just yell that way , not for anything in particular , but merely on account of a kind of devilish comfort he got out of it . 
I never could get into a sound sleep but he would fetch me out of bed , all in a cold sweat , with one of those dreadful war whoops . 
A queer being very queer being no respect for anything or anybody . 
Sometimes he called me Johnny . 
And he kept a fiddle , and a cat . 
This seemed to distress the cat , and so the cat would howl . 
Nobody could sleep where that man and his family was . 
There never was anything like it . 
But the boat was not more than a day out of New Orleans before Stephen discovered that the captain was boasting of his exploit , and that all the officers had been told . 
Stephen winced , but said nothing . 
About the middle of the afternoon the captain stepped out on the hurricane deck , cast his eye around , and looked a good deal surprised . 
He glanced inquiringly aloft at Stephen , but Stephen was whistling placidly , and attending to business . 
He chafed and puzzled a few minutes longer , then retired to his apartments . 
But soon he was out again , and apparently more perplexed than ever . 
'Seems to be a good deal of current here . 
'Good deal don't describe it ! It's worse than a mill race . 
'Isn't it easier in toward shore than it is out here in the middle ? 'Yes , I reckon it is but a body can't be too careful with a steamboat . 
It's pretty safe out here can't strike any bottom here , you can depend on that . 
The captain departed , looking rueful enough . 
At this rate , he would probably die of old age before his boat got to St . 
This thing was becoming serious . 
In by the shore was a slower boat clipping along in the easy water and gaining steadily she began to make for an island chute Stephen stuck to the middle of the river . 
Speech was WRUNG from the captain . 
W , don't that chute cut off a good deal of distance ? 'I think it does , but I don't know . 
'Don't know ! Well , isn't there water enough in it now to go through ? 'I expect there is , but I am not certain . 
'Upon my word this is odd ! Why , those pilots on that boat yonder are going to try it . 
Five minutes later Stephen was bowling through the chute and showing the rival boat a two hundred and fifty dollar pair of heels . 
No bloodshed ensued but that was because the captain's cause was weak for ordinarily he was not a man to take correction quietly . 
It was curious and noteworthy in this , that it was perhaps the compactest , the completest , and the strongest commercial organization ever formed among men . 
For a long time wages had been two hundred and fifty dollars a month but curiously enough , as steamboats multiplied and business increased , the wages began to fall little by little . 
It was easy to discover the reason of this . 
Too many pilots were being 'made . 
By and by it came to pass that nearly every pilot on the river had a steersman . 
Nothing further was needed usually no questions were asked , no proofs of capacity required . 
Very well , this growing swarm of new pilots presently began to undermine the wages , in order to get berths . 
Too late apparently the knights of the tiller perceived their mistake . 
Plainly , something had to be done , and quickly but what was to be the needful thing . 
To compass this seemed an impossibility so it was talked , and talked , and then dropped . 
It was too likely to ruin whoever ventured to move in the matter . 
But at last about a dozen of the boldest and some of them the best pilots on the river launched themselves into the enterprise and took all the chances . 
But there were two or three unnoticed trifles in their by laws which had the seeds of propagation in them . 
For instance , all idle members of the association , in good standing , were entitled to a pension of twenty five dollars per month . 
This began to bring in one straggler after another from the ranks of the new fledged pilots , in the dull season . 
Better have twenty five dollars than starve the initiation fee was only twelve dollars , and no dues required from the unemployed . 
Also , the widows of deceased members in good standing could draw twenty five dollars per month , and a certain sum for each of their children . 
Also , the said deceased would be buried at the association's expense . 
These things resurrected all the superannuated and forgotten pilots in the Mississippi Valley . 
They came from farms , they came from interior villages , they came from everywhere . 
They came on crutches , on drays , in ambulances , any way , so they got there . 
They paid in their twelve dollars , and straightway began to draw out twenty five dollars a month , and calculate their burial bills . 
It was the laughing stock of the whole river . 
Everybody joked about the by law requiring members to pay ten per cent . 
of their wages , every month , into the treasury for the support of the association , whereas all the members were outcast and tabooed , and no one would employ them . 
However , the association was content or at least it gave no sign to the contrary . 
The hilarity at the association's expense burst all bounds , now . 
There was no end to the fun which that poor martyr had to put up with . 
However , it is a long lane that has no turning . 
Winter approached , business doubled and trebled , and an avalanche of Missouri , Illinois and Upper Mississippi River boats came pouring down to take a chance in the New Orleans trade . 
All of a sudden pilots were in great demand , and were correspondingly scarce . 
The time for revenge was come . 
It was a bitter pill to have to accept association pilots at last , yet captains and owners agreed that there was no other way . 
But none of these outcasts offered ! So there was a still bitterer pill to be swallowed they must be sought out and asked for their services . 
Captain was the first man who found it necessary to take the dose , and he had been the loudest derider of the organization . 
I've come to hire you get your trunk aboard right away . 
I want to leave at twelve o'clock . 
'I don't know about that . 
Who is your other pilot ? 'I've got I. S . 
Why ? 'I can't go with him . 
He don't belong to the association . 
'Well , if this isn't putting on airs ! I supposed I was doing you a benevolence but I begin to think that I am the party that wants a favor done . 
Are you acting under a law of the concern ? 'Yes . 
'I will provide for you , said the secretary . 
'I will detail a pilot to go with you , and he shall be on board at twelve o'clock . 
'But if I discharge S , he will come on me for the whole season's wages . 
'Of course that is a matter between you and Mr. S , captain . 
We cannot meddle in your private affairs . 
The captain stormed , but to no purpose . 
In the end he had to discharge S , pay him about a thousand dollars , and take an association pilot in his place . 
The laugh was beginning to turn the other way now . 
In a very little while , idle non associationists began to be pretty plenty , brisk as business was , and much as their services were desired . 
The laugh was shifting to the other side of their mouths most palpably . 
These victims , together with the captains and owners , presently ceased to laugh altogether , and began to rage about the revenge they would take when the passing business 'spurt' was over . 
Soon all the laughers that were left were the owners and crews of boats that had two non association pilots . 
But their triumph was not very long lived . 
For this reason It was a rigid rule of the association that its members should never , under any circumstances whatever , give information about the channel to any 'outsider . 
By this time about half the boats had none but association pilots , and the other half had none but outsiders . 
At the first glance one would suppose that when it came to forbidding information about the river these two parties could play equally at that game but this was not so . 
At every good sized town from one end of the river to the other , there was a 'wharf boat' to land at , instead of a wharf or a pier . 
Freight was stored in it for transportation waiting passengers slept in its cabins . 
Upon each of these wharf boats the association's officers placed a strong box fastened with a peculiar lock which was used in no other service but one the United States mail service . 
It was the letter bag lock , a sacred governmental thing . 
By dint of much beseeching the government had been persuaded to allow the association to use this lock . 
Every association man carried a key which would open these boxes . 
That key , or rather a peculiar way of holding it in the hand when its owner was asked for river information by a stranger for the success of the St . 
JOHN SMITH MASTER PILOTS , JOHN JONES AND THOMAS BROWN . 
These blanks were filled up , day by day , as the voyage progressed , and deposited in the several wharf boat boxes . 
For instance , as soon as the first crossing , out from St . 
Louis , was completed , the items would be entered upon the blank , under the appropriate headings , thus 'St . 
Stern on court house , head on dead cottonwood above wood yard , until you raise the first reef , then pull up square . 
Then under head of Remarks 'Go just outside the wrecks this is important . 
New snag just where you straighten down go above it . 
His information about it was seldom twenty four hours old . 
The first thing a pilot did when he reached New Orleans or St . 
Louis was to take his final and elaborate report to the association parlors and hang it up there , after which he was free to visit his family . 
Other craftsmen can 'sink the shop , sometimes , and interest themselves in other matters . 
Not so with a pilot he must devote himself wholly to his profession and talk of nothing else for it would be small gain to be perfect one day and imperfect the next . 
He has no time or words to waste if he would keep 'posted . 
But the outsiders had a hard time of it . 
No particular place to meet and exchange information , no wharf boat reports , none but chance and unsatisfactory ways of getting news . 
The consequence was that a man sometimes had to run five hundred miles of river on information that was a week or ten days old . 
At a fair stage of the river that might have answered but when the dead low water came it was destructive . 
Now came another perfectly logical result . 
The outsiders began to ground steamboats , sink them , and get into all sorts of trouble , whereas accidents seemed to keep entirely away from the association men . 
And who was it that had the dashing presumption to do that ? Alas , it came from a power behind the throne that was greater than the throne itself . 
It was the underwriters ! It was no time to 'swap knives . 
Every outsider had to take his trunk ashore at once . 
Of course it was supposed that there was collusion between the association and the underwriters , but this was not so . 
There was weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth in the camp of the outsiders now . 
But no matter , there was but one course for them to pursue , and they pursued it . 
They came forward in couples and groups , and proffered their twelve dollars and asked for membership . 
They were surprised to learn that several new by laws had been long ago added . 
For instance , the initiation fee had been raised to fifty dollars that sum must be tendered , and also ten per cent . 
of the wages which the applicant had received each and every month since the founding of the association . 
In many cases this amounted to three or four hundred dollars . 
Still , the association would not entertain the application until the money was present . 
Even then a single adverse vote killed the application . 
Every member had to vote 'Yes' or 'No' in person and before witnesses so it took weeks to decide a candidacy , because many pilots were so long absent on voyages . 
However , the repentant sinners scraped their savings together , and one by one , by our tedious voting process , they were added to the fold . 
A time came , at last , when only about ten remained outside . 
They said they would starve before they would apply . 
They remained idle a long while , because of course nobody could venture to employ them . 
By and by the association published the fact that upon a certain date the wages would be raised to five hundred dollars per month . 
All the branch associations had grown strong , now , and the Red River one had advanced wages to seven hundred dollars a month . 
Reluctantly the ten outsiders yielded , in view of these things , and made application . 
It turned out to be a difficult matter to elect them , but it was accomplished at last . 
The association had a good bank account now , and was very strong . 
There was no longer an outsider . 
should be willing to sign his application for a pilot's license . 
All previously articled apprentices were now taken away from their masters and adopted by the association . 
The president and secretary detailed them for service on one boat or another , as they chose , and changed them from boat to boat according to certain rules . 
If a pilot could show that he was in infirm health and needed assistance , one of the cubs would be ordered to go with him . 
The widow and orphan list grew , but so did the association's financial resources . 
The association attended its own funerals in state , and paid for them . 
When occasion demanded , it sent members down the river upon searches for the bodies of brethren lost by steamboat accidents a search of this kind sometimes cost a thousand dollars . 
The association procured a charter and went into the insurance business , also . 
It not only insured the lives of its members , but took risks on steamboats . 
It was the tightest monopoly in the world . 
By the United States law , no man could become a pilot unless two duly licensed pilots signed his application and now there was nobody outside of the association competent to sign . 
Consequently the making of pilots was at an end . 
Every year some would die and others become incapacitated by age and infirmity there would be no new ones to take their places . 
The owners and captains were the only obstruction that lay between the association and absolute power and at last this one was removed . 
Incredible as it may seem , the owners and captains deliberately did it themselves . 
It was a rather slender argument , but the farmers did not seem to detect it . 
It was a novel idea , but of course an effect which had been produced once could be produced again . 
that if any captain employed a non association pilot , he should be forced to discharge him , and also pay a fine of five hundred dollars . 
Several of these heavy fines were paid before the captains' organization grew strong enough to exercise full authority over its membership but that all ceased , presently . 
The captains tried to get the pilots to decree that no member of their corporation should serve under a non association captain but this proposition was declined . 
The pilots saw that they would be backed up by the captains and the underwriters anyhow , and so they wisely refrained from entering into entangling alliances . 
As I have remarked , the pilots' association was now the compactest monopoly in the world , perhaps , and seemed simply indestructible . 
And yet the days of its glory were numbered . 
Every outward bound boat had its flag flying at the jack staff , and sometimes a duplicate on the verge staff astern . 
By this time the hurricane and boiler decks of the steamers would be packed and black with passengers . 
Now a number of the boats slide backward into the stream , leaving wide gaps in the serried rank of steamers . 
Citizens crowd the decks of boats that are not to go , in order to see the sight . 
No engineer was ever sleepy or careless when his heart was in a race . 
He was constantly on the alert , trying gauge cocks and watching things . 
The dangerous place was on slow , plodding boats , where the engineers drowsed around and allowed chips to get into the 'doctor' and shut off the water supply from the boilers . 
In the 'flush times' of steamboating , a race between two notoriously fleet steamers was an event of vast importance . 
The date was set for it several weeks in advance , and from that time forward , the whole Mississippi Valley was in a state of consuming excitement . 
Politics and the weather were dropped , and people talked only of the coming race . 
As the time approached , the two steamers 'stripped' and got ready . 
Every encumbrance that added weight , or exposed a resisting surface to wind or water , was removed , if the boat could possibly do without it . 
The 'spars , and sometimes even their supporting derricks , were sent ashore , and no means left to set the boat afloat in case she got aground . 
When the 'Eclipse' and the 'A . 
But I always doubted these things . 
Hardly any passengers were taken , because they not only add weight but they never will 'trim boat . 
No way freights and no way passengers were allowed , for the racers would stop only at the largest towns , and then it would be only 'touch and go . 
Coal flats and wood flats were contracted for beforehand , and these were kept ready to hitch on to the flying steamers at a moment's warning . 
Double crews were carried , so that all work could be quickly done . 
Those boats will never halt a moment between New Orleans and St . 
Louis , except for a second or two at large towns , or to hitch thirty cord wood boats alongside . 
Two nicely matched steamers will stay in sight of each other day after day . 
They might even stay side by side , but for the fact that pilots are not all alike , and the smartest pilots will win the race . 
The shrewdest pilot can delay a boat if he has not a fine genius for steering . 
Steering is a very high art . 
One must not keep a rudder dragging across a boat's stem if he wants to get up the river fast . 
There is a great difference in boats , of course . 
For a long time I was on a boat that was so slow we used to forget what year it was we left port in . 
But of course this was at rare intervals . 
Ferryboats used to lose valuable trips because their passengers grew old and died , waiting for us to get by . 
This was at still rarer intervals . 
I had the documents for these occurrences , but through carelessness they have been mislaid . 
This boat , the 'John J. Roe , was so slow that when she finally sunk in Madrid Bend , it was five years before the owners heard of it . 
That was always a confusing fact to me , but it is according to the record , any way . 
She was dismally slow still , we often had pretty exciting times racing with islands , and rafts , and such things . 
One trip , however , we did rather well . 
But even at this rattling gait I think we changed watches three times in Fort Adams reach , which is five miles long . 
A 'reach' is a piece of straight river , and of course the current drives through such a place in a pretty lively way . 
the 'Eclipse' and 'Shotwell' did it in one . 
the 'Eclipse' and 'Shotwell' went there in two days . 
Something over a generation ago , a boat called the 'J . 
M. White' went from New Orleans to Cairo in three days , six hours , and forty four minutes . 
In the 'Eclipse' made the same trip in three days , three hours , and twenty minutes . 
Some authorities add hour and minutes to this . 
E. Lee' did it in three days and ONE hour . 
This last is called the fastest trip on record . 
I will try to show that it was not . 
For this reason the distance between New Orleans and Cairo , when the 'J . 
M. White' ran it , was about eleven hundred and six miles consequently her average speed was a trifle over fourteen miles per hour . 
E. Lee's' time the distance had diminished to about one thousand and thirty miles consequently her average was about fourteen and one eighth miles per hour . 
Therefore the 'Eclipse's' was conspicuously the fastest time that has ever been made . 
FAST TIME ON THE WESTERN WATERS FROM NEW ORLEANS TO NATCHEZ MILES D. H. M. Orleans made the run in Comet Enterprise Washington Shelby Paragon Tecumseh Tuscarora Natchez Ed . 
Shelby Paragon Tecumseh Tuscarora Gen . 
Brown Randolph Empress Sultana Ed . 
Quitman Ruth R. E. Lee FROM NEW ORLEANS TO ST . 
LOUIS , MILES D. H. M. J. M. White made the run in Missouri Dexter Natchez R. E. Lee FROM LOUISVILLE TO CINCINNATI MILES D. H. M. Gen . 
Alleghaney Pittsburgh Telegraph No. FROM LOUISVILLE TO ST . 
LOUIS MILES D. H. M. Congress made the run in Pike Northerner Southemer FROM CINCINNATI TO PITTSBURGH MILES D. H. Telegraph No. made the run in Buckeye State Pittsburgh FROM ST . 
LOUIS TO ALTON MILES D. M. Altona made the run in Golden Eagle War Eagle MISCELLANEOUS RUNS In June , , the St . 
Louis and Keokuk Packet , City of Louisiana , made the run from St . 
in hours and minutes , the best time on record . 
In the steamer Hawkeye State , of the Northern Packet Company , made the run from St . 
Paul in days and hours . 
In the steamer Polar Star made the run from St . 
Joseph , on the Missouri River , in hours . 
In July , , the steamer Jas . 
H. Lucas , Andy Wineland , Master , made the same run in hours and minutes . 
The distance between the ports is miles , and when the difficulties of navigating the turbulent Missouri are taken into consideration , the performance of the Lucas deserves especial mention . 
THE RUN OF THE ROBERT E. LEE The time made by the R. E. Lee from New Orleans to St . 
Left New Orleans , Thursday , June th , , at o'clock and minutes , p . 
Joseph Grand Gulf Hard Times Half Mile below Warrenton Vicksburg Milliken's Bend Bailey's Lake Providence Greenville Napoleon White River Australia Helena Half Mile Below St . 
Francis Memphis Foot of Island Foot of Island Tow head , Island New Madrid Dry Bar No. Foot of Island Upper Tow head Lucas Bend Cairo St . 
Louis The Lee landed at St . 
A. M. , on July th , hours and minutes ahead of the Natchez . 
The officers of the Natchez claimed hours and minute stoppage on account of fog and repairing machinery . 
The R. E. Lee was commanded by Captain John W. Cannon , and the Natchez was in charge of that veteran Southern boatman , Captain Thomas P. Leathers . 
Chapter Cut offs and Stephen THESE dry details are of importance in one particular . 
They give me an opportunity of introducing one of the Mississippi's oddest peculiarities , that of shortening its length from time to time . 
The two hundred mile stretch from Cairo northward to St . 
Louis is by no means so crooked , that being a rocky country which the river cannot cut much . 
Pray observe some of the effects of this ditching business . 
Once there was a neck opposite Port Hudson , Louisiana , which was only half a mile across , in its narrowest place . 
You could walk across there in fifteen minutes but if you made the journey around the cape on a raft , you traveled thirty five miles to accomplish the same thing . 
In the river darted through that neck , deserted its old bed , and thus shortened itself thirty five miles . 
In the same way it shortened itself twenty five miles at Black Hawk Point in . 
This shortened the river twenty eight miles . 
In our day , if you travel by river from the southernmost of these three cut offs to the northernmost , you go only seventy miles . 
To do the same thing a hundred and seventy six years ago , one had to go a hundred and fifty eight miles ! shortening of eighty eight miles in that trifling distance . 
At some forgotten time in the past , cut offs were made above Vidalia , Louisiana at island at island and at Hale's Point . 
These shortened the river , in the aggregate , seventy seven miles . 
Since my own day on the Mississippi , cut offs have been made at Hurricane Island at island at Napoleon , Arkansas at Walnut Bend and at Council Bend . 
These shortened the river , in the aggregate , sixty seven miles . 
In my own time a cut off was made at American Bend , which shortened the river ten miles or more . 
Therefore , the Mississippi between Cairo and New Orleans was twelve hundred and fifteen miles long one hundred and seventy six years ago . 
It was eleven hundred and eighty after the cut off of . 
It was one thousand and forty after the American Bend cut off . 
It has lost sixty seven miles since . 
Consequently its length is only nine hundred and seventy three miles at present . 
Please observe In the space of one hundred and seventy six years the Lower Mississippi has shortened itself two hundred and forty two miles . 
That is an average of a trifle over one mile and a third per year . 
There is something fascinating about science . 
One gets such wholesale returns of conjecture out of such a trifling investment of fact . 
When the water begins to flow through one of those ditches I have been speaking of , it is time for the people thereabouts to move . 
The water cleaves the banks away like a knife . 
By the time the ditch has become twelve or fifteen feet wide , the calamity is as good as accomplished , for no power on earth can stop it now . 
When the width has reached a hundred yards , the banks begin to peel off in slices half an acre wide . 
The current flowing around the bend traveled formerly only five miles an hour now it is tremendously increased by the shortening of the distance . 
I was on board the first boat that tried to go through the cut off at American Bend , but we did not get through . 
It was toward midnight , and a wild night it was thunder , lightning , and torrents of rain . 
However , Mr. Brown was ambitious , and he kept on trying . 
But all our preparations were useless . 
The next instant we were away down the river , clawing with might and main to keep out of the woods . 
We tried the experiment four times . 
I stood on the forecastle companion way to see . 
It was astonishing to observe how suddenly the boat would spin around and turn tail the moment she emerged from the eddy and the current struck her nose . 
The sounding concussion and the quivering would have been about the same if she had come full speed against a sand bank . 
Under the lightning flashes one could see the plantation cabins and the goodly acres tumble into the river and the crash they made was not a bad effort at thunder . 
Once , when we spun around , we only missed a house about twenty feet , that had a light burning in the window and in the same instant that house went overboard . 
Nobody could stay on our forecastle the water swept across it in a torrent every time we plunged athwart the current . 
At the end of our fourth effort we brought up in the woods two miles below the cut off all the country there was overflowed , of course . 
A day or two later the cut off was three quarters of a mile wide , and boats passed up through it without much difficulty , and so saved ten miles . 
The old Raccourci cut off reduced the river's length twenty eight miles . 
There used to be a tradition connected with it . 
It was said that a boat came along there in the night and went around the enormous elbow the usual way , the pilots not knowing that the cut off had been made . 
It was a grisly , hideous night , and all shapes were vague and distorted . 
The old bend had already begun to fill up , and the boat got to running away from mysterious reefs , and occasionally hitting one . 
The perplexed pilots fell to swearing , and finally uttered the entirely unnecessary wish that they might never get out of that place . 
As always happens in such cases , that particular prayer was answered , and the others neglected . 
So to this day that phantom steamer is still butting around in that deserted river , trying to find her way out . 
In the absence of further statistics , I beg to close this chapter with one more reminiscence of 'Stephen . 
Most of the captains and pilots held Stephen's note for borrowed sums , ranging from two hundred and fifty dollars upward . 
Stephen never paid one of these notes , but he was very prompt and very zealous about renewing them every twelve months . 
The fact was soon known at pilot headquarters , and the amusement and satisfaction of the old creditors were large and generous . 
But innocent Yates never suspected that Stephen's promise to pay promptly at the end of the week was a worthless one . 
Yates called for his money at the stipulated time Stephen sweetened him up and put him off a week . 
He called then , according to agreement , and came away sugar coated again , but suffering under another postponement . 
So the thing went on . 
Yates haunted Stephen week after week , to no purpose , and at last gave it up . 
And then straightway Stephen began to haunt Yates ! Wherever Yates appeared , there was the inevitable Stephen . 
And not only there , but beaming with affection and gushing with apologies for not being able to pay . 
And here you are ! there , just stand so , and let me look at you ! just the same old noble countenance . 
She says , In all my days I never saw a man take a debt to heart the way you do . 
I said , It's my nature how can I change it ? She says , Well , do go to bed and get some rest . 
I said , Not till that poor , noble young man has got his money . 
Well , sir , I had to lean up against a building and cry . 
So help me goodness , I couldn't help it . 
Yates's life became a burden to him . 
He could not escape his debtor and his debtor's awful sufferings on account of not being able to pay . 
He dreaded to show himself in the street , lest he should find Stephen lying in wait for him at the comer . 
Bogart's billiard saloon was a great resort for pilots in those days . 
They met there about as much to exchange river news as to play . 
One morning Yates was there Stephen was there , too , but kept out of sight . 
I want to pay it I intend to pay it every last cent of it . 
The fact is daily borne in upon me , that the average shore employment requires as much as forty years to equip a man with this sort of an education . 
My profit is various in kind and degree but the feature of it which I value most is the zest which that early experience has given to my later reading . 
He was a middle aged , long , slim , bony , smooth shaven , horse faced , ignorant , stingy , malicious , snarling , fault hunting , mote magnifying tyrant . 
I early got the habit of coming on watch with dread at my heart . 
I still remember the first time I ever entered the presence of that man . 
The boat had backed out from St . 
Brown was at the wheel . 
I paused in the middle of the room , all fixed to make my bow , but Brown did not look around . 
I thought he took a furtive glance at me out of the corner of his eye , but as not even this notice was repeated , I judged I had been mistaken . 
There was silence for ten minutes then my new boss turned and inspected me deliberately and painstakingly from head to heel for about as it seemed to me a quarter of an hour . 
After this there was a pause and another inspection . 
Then 'What's your name ? I told him . 
He repeated it after me . 
'Where was you born ? 'In Florida , Missouri . 
Then 'Dern sight better staid there ! By means of a dozen or so of pretty direct questions , he pumped my family history out of me . 
The leads were going now , in the first crossing . 
When the leads had been laid in , he resumed 'How long you been on the river ? I told him . 
After a pause 'Where'd you get them shoes ? I gave him the information . 
'Hold up your foot ! I did so . 
What occasion there was to be dod derned about it is a thing which is still as much of a mystery to me now as it was then . 
Now came this shriek 'Here ! You going to set there all day ? I lit in the middle of the floor , shot there by the electric suddenness of the surprise . 
As soon as I could get my voice I said , apologetically 'I have had no orders , sir . 
'You've had no ORDERS ! My , what a fine bird we are ! We must have ORDERS ! Our father was a GENTLEMAN owned slaves and we've been to SCHOOL . 
I moved back a step or two , and stood as in a dream , all my senses stupefied by this frantic assault . 
'Derned likely story ! Fill up the stove . 
I proceeded to do so . 
He watched me like a cat . 
Presently he shouted 'Put down that shovel ! Deadest numskull I ever saw ain't even got sense enough to load up a stove . 
All through the watch this sort of thing went on . 
Yes , and the subsequent watches were much like it , during a stretch of months . 
As I have said , I soon got the habit of coming on duty with dread . 
Preliminarily he would say 'Here ! Take the wheel . 
George Ritchie was the other pilot's cub . 
He was having good times now for his boss , George Ealer , was as kindhearted as Brown wasn't . 
Ritchie had steeled for Brown the season before consequently he knew exactly how to entertain himself and plague me , all by the one operation . 
I often wanted to kill Brown , but this would not answer . 
However , I could IMAGINE myself killing Brown there was no law against that and that was the thing I used always to do the moment I was abed . 
Instead of going over my river in my mind as was my duty , I threw business aside for pleasure , and killed Brown . 
Brown was ALWAYS watching for a pretext to find fault and if he could find no plausible pretext , he would invent one . 
One day we were approaching New Madrid , bound down and heavily laden . 
Brown was at one side of the wheel , steering I was at the other , standing by to 'pull down' or 'shove up . 
He cast a furtive glance at me every now and then . 
I had long ago learned what that meant viz . 
, he was trying to invent a trap for me . 
I wondered what shape it was going to take . 
By and by he stepped back from the wheel and said in his usual snarly way 'Here ! See if you've got gumption enough to round her to . 
'Dod dern' was the nearest he ventured to the luxury of swearing , for he had been brought up with a wholesome respect for future fire and brimstone . 
That was an uncomfortable hour for there was a big audience on the hurricane deck . 
When I went to bed that night , I killed Brown in seventeen different ways all of them new . 
Chapter Brown and I Exchange Compliments Two trips later , I got into serious trouble . 
Brown was steering I was 'pulling down . 
My younger brother appeared on the hurricane deck , and shouted to Brown to stop at some landing or other a mile or so below . 
Brown gave no intimation that he had heard anything . 
But that was his way he never condescended to take notice of an under clerk . 
, and I very much doubted if he had heard the order . 
If I had two heads , I would have spoken but as I had only one , it seemed judicious to take care of it so I kept still . 
Presently , sure enough , we went sailing by that plantation . 
Captain Klinefelter appeared on the deck , and said 'Let her come around , sir , let her come around . 
Didn't Henry tell you to land here ? 'NO , sir ! 'I sent him up to do , it . 
'He did come up and that's all the good it done , the dod derned fool . 
'Didn't YOU hear him ? asked the captain of me . 
Of course I didn't want to be mixed up in this business , but there was no way to avoid it so I said 'Yes , sir . 
I knew what Brown's next remark would be , before he uttered it it was 'Shut your mouth ! you never heard anything of the kind . 
I closed my mouth according to instructions . 
An hour later , Henry entered the pilot house , unaware of what had been going on . 
He was a thoroughly inoffensive boy , and I was sorry to see him come , for I knew Brown would have no pity on him . 
Brown began , straightway 'Here ! why didn't you tell me we'd got to land at that plantation ? 'I did tell you , Mr. Brown . 
'It's a lie ! I said 'You lie , yourself . 
Still , that was only luck a body MIGHT have found her charging into the woods . 
The racket had brought everybody to the hurricane deck , and I trembled when I saw the old captain looking up from the midst of the crowd . 
Our watch was nearly ended . 
I thought I would go and hide somewhere till I got a chance to slide ashore . 
I dropped into his wake he led the way to his parlor in the forward end of the texas . 
We were alone , now . 
He closed the after door then moved slowly to the forward one and closed that . 
He sat down I stood before him . 
He looked at me some little time , then said 'So you have been fighting Mr. Brown ? I answered meekly 'Yes , sir . 
'Do you know that that is a very serious matter ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Are you aware that this boat was plowing down the river fully five minutes with no one at the wheel ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Did you strike him first ? 'Yes , sir . 
'What with ? 'A stool , sir . 
'Hard ? 'Middling , sir . 
'Did it knock him down ? 'He he fell , sir . 
'Did you follow it up ? Did you do anything further ? 'Yes , sir . 
'What did you do ? 'Pounded him , sir . 
'Pounded him ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Did you pound him much ? that is , severely ? 'One might call it that , sir , maybe . 
'I'm deuced glad of it ! Hark ye , never mention that I said that . 
You have been guilty of a great crime and don't you ever be guilty of it again , on this boat . 
BUT lay for him ashore ! Give him a good sound thrashing , do you hear ? I'll pay the expenses . 
Now go and mind you , not a word of this to anybody . 
The captain said 'But he needn't come round when you are on watch , Mr. Brown . 
'I won't even stay on the same boat with him . 
One of us has got to go ashore . 
'Very well , said the captain , 'let it be yourself and resumed his talk with the passengers . 
During the brief remainder of the trip , I knew how an emancipated slave feels for I was an emancipated slave myself . 
Brown remained in his place but he would not travel with me . 
So the captain gave me an order on the captain of the 'A . 
T. Lacey , for a passage to St . 
Louis , and said he would find a new pilot there and my steersman's berth could then be resumed . 
The 'Lacey' was to leave a couple of days after the 'Pennsylvania . 
The night before the 'Pennsylvania' left , Henry and I sat chatting on a freight pile on the levee till midnight . 
The subject of the chat , mainly , was one which I think we had not exploited before steamboat disasters . 
Henry remembered this , afterward , when the disaster came , and acted accordingly . 
The 'Lacey' started up the river two days behind the 'Pennsylvania . 
It mentioned my brother , and said he was not hurt . 
Further up the river we got a later extra . 
My brother was again mentioned but this time as being hurt beyond help . 
We did not get full details of the catastrophe until we reached Memphis . 
This is the sorrowful story It was six o'clock on a hot summer morning . 
The 'Pennsylvania' was creeping along , north of Ship Island , about sixty miles below Memphis on a half head of steam , towing a wood flat which was fast being emptied . 
There were a good many cabin passengers aboard , and three or four hundred deck passengers so it was said at the time and not very many of them were astir . 
Many people were flung to considerable distances , and fell in the river among these were Mr. Wood and my brother , and the carpenter . 
The carpenter was still stretched upon his mattress when he struck the water seventy five feet from the boat . 
Brown , the pilot , and George Black , chief clerk , were never seen or heard of after the explosion . 
He had ample time to attend to these details while he was going up and returning . 
All of the many who breathed that steam , died none escaped . 
But Ealer breathed none of it . 
By this time the fire was beginning to threaten . 
Shrieks and groans filled the air . 
A great many persons had been scalded , a great many crippled the explosion had driven an iron crowbar through one man's body I think they said he was a priest . 
He did not die at once , and his sufferings were very dreadful . 
A young French naval cadet , of fifteen , son of a French admiral , was fearfully scalded , but bore his tortures manfully . 
Both mates were badly scalded , but they stood to their posts , nevertheless . 
They drew the wood boat aft , and they and the captain fought back the frantic herd of frightened immigrants till the wounded could be brought there and placed in safety first . 
, and therefore would swim back to the boat and help save the wounded . 
So they parted , and Henry returned . 
By this time the fire was making fierce headway , and several persons who were imprisoned under the ruins were begging piteously for help . 
All efforts to conquer the fire proved fruitless so the buckets were presently thrown aside and the officers fell to with axes and tried to cut the prisoners out . 
The fire did drive the axmen away , and they had to listen , helpless , to this poor fellow's supplications till the flames ended his miseries . 
The fire drove all into the wood flat that could be accommodated there it was cut adrift , then , and it and the burning steamer floated down the river toward Ship Island . 
A steamer came along , finally , and carried the unfortunates to Memphis , and there the most lavish assistance was at once forthcoming . 
By this time Henry was insensible . 
The physicians examined his injuries and saw that they were fatal , and naturally turned their main attention to patients who could be saved . 
Forty of the wounded were placed upon pallets on the floor of a great public hall , and among these was Henry . 
There the ladies of Memphis came every day , with flowers , fruits , and dainties and delicacies of all kinds , and there they remained and nursed the wounded . 
All the physicians stood watches there , and all the medical students and the rest of the town furnished money , or whatever else was wanted . 
Two long rows of prostrate forms more than forty , in all and every face and head a shapeless wad of loose raw cotton . 
It was a gruesome spectacle . 
I watched there six days and nights , and a very melancholy experience it was . 
There was one daily incident which was peculiarly depressing this was the removal of the doomed to a chamber apart . 
It was done in order that the MORALE of the other patients might not be injuriously affected by seeing one of their number in the death agony . 
I saw many poor fellows removed to the 'death room , and saw them no more afterward . 
But I saw our chief mate carried thither more than once . 
His hurts were frightful , especially his scalds . 
He was clothed in linseed oil and raw cotton to his waist , and resembled nothing human . 
He was often out of his mind and then his pains would make him rave and shout and sometimes shriek . 
And now and then while these frenzies possessed him , he would tear off handfuls of the cotton and expose his cooked flesh to view . 
It was bad for the others , of course this noise and these exhibitions so the doctors tried to give him morphine to quiet him . 
But , in his mind or out of it , he would not take it . 
He said his wife had been killed by that treacherous drug , and he would die before he would take it . 
He suspected that the doctors were concealing it in his ordinary medicines and in his water so he ceased from putting either to his lips . 
Three times I saw him carried to the death room , insensible and supposed to be dying but each time he revived , cursed his attendants , and demanded to be taken back . 
He lived to be mate of a steamboat again . 
But he was the only one who went to the death room and returned alive . 
On the evening of the sixth day his wandering mind busied itself with matters far away , and his nerveless fingers 'picked at his coverlet . 
His hour had struck we bore him to the death room , poor boy . 
Chapter I A Section in My Biography IN due course I got my license . 
I was a pilot now , full fledged . 
I dropped into casual employments no misfortunes resulting , intermittent work gave place to steady and protracted engagements . 
But by and by the war came , commerce was suspended , my occupation was gone . 
I had to seek another livelihood . 
In so few words have I disposed of the twenty one slow drifting years that have come and gone since I last looked from the windows of a pilot house . 
Let us resume , now . 
I enlisted a poet for company , and a stenographer to 'take him down , and started westward about the middle of April . 
As I proposed to make notes , with a view to printing , I took some thought as to methods of procedure . 
How do criminals manage to keep a brand new ALIAS in mind ? This is a great mystery . 
We left per Pennsylvania Railroad , at A. M. April . 
Grace and picturesqueness drop gradually out of it as one travels away from New York . 
I find that among my notes . 
It makes no difference which direction you take , the fact remains the same . 
No , there is a godless grace , and snap , and style about a born and bred New Yorker which mere clothing cannot effect . 
This morning , struck into the region of full goatees sometimes accompanied by a mustache , but only occasionally . 
It was odd to come upon this thick crop of an obsolete and uncomely fashion it was like running suddenly across a forgotten acquaintance whom you had supposed dead for a generation . 
At the railway stations the loafers carry BOTH hands in their breeches pockets it was observable , heretofore , that one hand was sometimes out of doors , here , never . 
This is an important fact in geography . 
If the loafers determined the character of a country , it would be still more important , of course . 
'Heretofore , all along , the station loafer has been often observed to scratch one shin with the other foot here , these remains of activity are wanting . 
This has an ominous look . 
By and by , we entered the tobacco chewing region . 
Fifty years ago , the tobacco chewing region covered the Union . 
It is greatly restricted now . 
Next , boots began to appear . 
Not in strong force , however . 
Later away down the Mississippi they became the rule . 
They disappeared from other sections of the Union with the mud no doubt they will disappear from the river villages , also , when proper pavements come in . 
Louis at ten o'clock at night . 
At the counter of the hotel I tendered a hurriedly invented fictitious name , with a miserable attempt at careless ease . 
Used to clerk at the St . 
James , in New York . 
An unpromising beginning for a fraudulent career . 
We started to the supper room , and met two other men whom I had known elsewhere . 
The Southern was a good hotel , and we could have had a comfortable time there . 
It is large , and well conducted , and its decorations do not make one cry , as do those of the vast Palmer House , in Chicago . 
The most notable absence observable in the billiard room , was the absence of the river man . 
If he was there he had taken in his sign , he was in disguise . 
In those times , the principal saloons were always populous with river men given fifty players present , thirty or thirty five were likely to be from the river . 
But I suspected that the ranks were thin now , and the steamboatmen no longer an aristocracy . 
Why , in my time they used to call the 'barkeep' Bill , or Joe , or Tom , and slap him on the shoulder I watched for that . 
But none of these people did it . 
Manifestly a glory that once was had dissolved and vanished away in these twenty one years . 
When I went up to my room , I found there the young man called Rogers , crying . 
Here was a thing which had not changed a score of years had not affected this water's mulatto complexion in the least a score of centuries would succeed no better , perhaps . 
It comes out of the turbulent , bank caving Missouri , and every tumblerful of it holds nearly an acre of land in solution . 
I got this fact from the bishop of the diocese . 
The land is very nourishing , the water is thoroughly wholesome . 
The one appeases hunger the other , thirst . 
But the natives do not take them separately , but together , as nature mixed them . 
When they find an inch of mud in the bottom of a glass , they stir it up , and then take the draught as they would gruel . 
It is difficult for a stranger to get used to this batter , but once used to it he will prefer it to water . 
This is really the case . 
It is good for steamboating , and good to drink but it is worthless for all other purposes , except baptizing . 
Next morning , we drove around town in the rain . 
The city seemed but little changed . 
It WAS greatly changed , but it did not seem so because in St . 
Louis , as in London and Pittsburgh , you can't persuade a new thing to look new the coal smoke turns it into an antiquity the moment you take your hand off it . 
Yet I am sure there is not as much smoke in St . 
Louis now as there used to be . 
The smoke used to bank itself in a dense billowy black canopy over the town , and hide the sky from view . 
This shelter is very much thinner now still , there is a sufficiency of smoke there , I think . 
However , on the outskirts changes were apparent enough notably in dwelling house architecture . 
The fine new homes are noble and beautiful and modern . 
There was another change the Forest Park . 
This was new to me . 
It is beautiful and very extensive , and has the excellent merit of having been made mainly by nature . 
There are other parks , and fine ones , notably Tower Grove and the Botanical Gardens for St . 
Louis interested herself in such improvements at an earlier day than did the most of our cities . 
The first time I ever saw St . 
Louis , I could have bought it for six million dollars , and it was the mistake of my life that I did not do it . 
Charles Augustus Murray , writing some forty five or fifty years ago , said 'The streets are narrow , ill paved and ill lighted . 
Those streets are narrow still , of course many of them are ill paved yet but the reproach of ill lighting cannot be repeated , now . 
Still , this would not surprise Mr. Murray , if he could come back for he prophesied the coming greatness of St . 
But the change of changes was on the 'levee . 
This time , a departure from the rule . 
Half a dozen sound asleep steamboats where I used to see a solid mile of wide awake ones ! This was melancholy , this was woeful . 
The absence of the pervading and jocund steamboatman from the billiard saloon was explained . 
He was absent because he is no more . 
His occupation is gone , his power has passed away , he is absorbed into the common herd , he grinds at the mill , a shorn Samson and inconspicuous . 
Marryat , writing forty five years ago says 'St . 
THE RIVER ABREAST OF THE TOWN IS CROWDED WITH STEAMBOATS , LYING IN TWO OR THREE TIERS . 
Here was desolation , indeed . 
'The old , old sea , as one in tears , Comes murmuring , with foamy lips , And knocking at the vacant piers , Calls for his long lost multitude of ships . 
The towboat and the railroad had done their work , and done it well and completely . 
The mighty bridge , stretching along over our heads , had done its share in the slaughter and spoliation . 
Remains of former steamboatmen told me , with wan satisfaction , that the bridge doesn't pay . 
The pavements along the river front were bad the sidewalks were rather out of repair there was a rich abundance of mud . 
All this was familiar and satisfying but the ancient armies of drays , and struggling throngs of men , and mountains of freight , were gone and Sabbath reigned in their stead . 
Louis is a great and prosperous and advancing city but the river edge of it seems dead past resurrection . 
It killed the old fashioned keel boating , by reducing the freight trip to New Orleans to less than a week . 
Freight and passenger way traffic remains to the steamers . 
This is in the hands along the two thousand miles of river between St . 
Where now is the once wood yard man ? Chapter Traveling Incognito MY idea was , to tarry a while in every town between St . 
To do this , it would be necessary to go from place to place by the short packet lines . 
It was an easy plan to make , and would have been an easy one to follow , twenty years ago but not now . 
There are wide intervals between boats , these days . 
I wanted to begin with the interesting old French settlements of St . 
Genevieve and Kaskaskia , sixty miles below St . 
There was only one boat advertised for that section a Grand Tower packet . 
Still , one boat was enough so we went down to look at her . 
There are places in New England where her hurricane deck would be worth a hundred and fifty dollars an acre . 
The soil on her forecastle was quite good the new crop of wheat was already springing from the cracks in protected places . 
The companionway was of a dry sandy character , and would have been well suited for grapes , with a southern exposure and a little subsoiling . 
The soil of the boiler deck was thin and rocky , but good enough for grazing purposes . 
A colored boy was on watch here nobody else visible . 
We gathered from him that this calm craft would go , as advertised , 'if she got her trip if she didn't get it , she would wait for it . 
'Has she got any of her trip ? 'Bless you , no , boss . 
She ain't unloadened , yit . 
She only come in dis mawnin' . 
He was uncertain as to when she might get her trip , but thought it might be to morrow or maybe next day . 
This would not answer at all so we had to give up the novelty of sailing down the river on a farm . 
She was neat , clean , and comfortable . 
We camped on the boiler deck , and bought some cheap literature to kill time with . 
The vender was a venerable Irishman with a benevolent face and a tongue that worked easily in the socket , and from him we learned that he had lived in St . 
Louis thirty four years and had never been across the river during that period . 
He was a good deal of a character , and much better company than the sappy literature he was selling . 
A random remark , connecting Irishmen and beer , brought this nugget of information out of him They don't drink it , sir . 
They can't drink it , sir . 
Give an Irishman lager for a month , and he's a dead man . 
An Irishman is lined with copper , and the beer corrodes it . 
But whiskey polishes the copper and is the saving of him , sir . 
At eight o'clock , promptly , we backed out and crossed the river . 
Another big change , this no more flickering , smoky , pitch dripping , ineffectual torch baskets , now their day is past . 
I was surprised , disappointed , and annoyed . 
We put ashore a well dressed lady and gentleman , and two well dressed , lady like young girls , together with sundry Russia leather bags . 
A strange place for such folk ! No carriage was waiting . 
The party moved off as if they had not expected any , and struck down a winding country road afoot . 
a couple of miles below this landing . 
I couldn't remember that town I couldn't place it , couldn't call its name . 
So I lost part of my temper . 
I suspected that it might be St . 
Genevieve and so it proved to be . 
It is a fine old place , too , and deserved a better fate . 
Presently I ascended to the hurricane deck and cast a longing glance toward the pilot house . 
Chapter My Incognito is Exploded AFTER a close study of the face of the pilot on watch , I was satisfied that I had never seen him before so I went up there . 
The pilot inspected me I re inspected the pilot . 
These customary preliminaries over , I sat down on the high bench , and he faced about and went on with his work . 
Every detail of the pilot house was familiar to me , with one exception , a large mouthed tube under the breast board . 
I puzzled over that thing a considerable time then gave up and asked what it was for . 
'To hear the engine bells through . 
It was another good contrivance which ought to have been invented half a century sooner . 
So I was thinking , when the pilot asked 'Do you know what this rope is for ? I managed to get around this question , without committing myself . 
'Is this the first time you were ever in a pilot house ? I crept under that one . 
'Where are you from ? 'New England . 
'First time you have ever been West ? I climbed over this one . 
'If you take an interest in such things , I can tell you what all these things are for . 
I said I should like it . 
I had never felt so like a passenger before . 
I thanked him , with emotion , for each new fact , and wrote it down in my note book . 
The pilot warmed to his opportunity , and proceeded to load me up in the good old fashioned way . 
At times I was afraid he was going to rupture his invention but it always stood the strain , and he pulled through all right . 
He drifted , by easy stages , into revealments of the river's marvelous eccentricities of one sort and another , and backed them up with some pretty gigantic illustrations . 
All washed away but that . 
) I had a mighty impulse to destroy him , but it seemed to me that killing , in any ordinary way , would be too good for him . 
'An alligator boat ? What's it for ? 'To dredge out alligators with . 
'Are they so thick as to be troublesome ? 'Well , not now , because the Government keeps them down . 
But they used to be . 
'Did they actually impede navigation ? 'Years ago , yes , in very low water there was hardly a trip , then , that we didn't get aground on alligators . 
It seemed to me that I should certainly have to get out my tomahawk . 
However , I restrained myself and said 'It must have been dreadful . 
'Yes , it was one of the main difficulties about piloting . 
It was so hard to tell anything about the water the damned things shift around so never lie still five minutes at a time . 
THEY could tell alligator water as far as another Christian could tell whiskey . 
Read it ? Ah , COULDN'T they , though ! I only wish I had as many dollars as they could read alligator water a mile and a half off . 
Yes , and it paid them to do it , too . 
A good alligator pilot could always get fifteen hundred dollars a month . 
Nights , other people had to lay up for alligators , but those fellows never laid up for alligators they never laid up for anything but fog . 
Which is not the style of Robert Styles , by as much as three fathom maybe quarter LESS . 
My ! Was this Rob Styles ? This mustached and stately figure ? A slim enough cub , in my time . 
How he has improved in comeliness in five and twenty year and in the noble art of inflating his facts . 
After these musings , I said aloud 'I should think that dredging out the alligators wouldn't have done much good , because they could come back again right away . 
'If you had had as much experience of alligators as I have , you wouldn't talk like that . 
You dredge an alligator once and he's CONVINCED . 
It's the last you hear of HIM . 
He wouldn't come back for pie . 
If there's one thing that an alligator is more down on than another , it's being dredged . 
'What for ? 'Why , to make soldier shoes out of their hides . 
All the Government shoes are made of alligator hide . 
It makes the best shoes in the world . 
They last five years , and they won't absorb water . 
The alligator fishery is a Government monopoly . 
All the alligators are Government property just like the live oaks . 
And they will , if you're a Democrat . 
The buzzard is the sacred bird of the South , and you can't touch him the alligator is the sacred bird of the Government , and you've got to let him alone . 
'Do you ever get aground on the alligators now ? 'Oh , no ! it hasn't happened for years . 
'Well , then , why do they still keep the alligator boats in service ? 'Just for police duty nothing more . 
They merely go up and down now and then . 
The present generation of alligators know them as easy as a burglar knows a roundsman when they see one coming , they break camp and go for the woods . 
He couldn't ever seem to tell the truth , in any kind of weather . 
Why , he would make you fairly shudder . 
He WAS the most scandalous liar ! I left him , finally I couldn't stand it . 
He paid first class wages but said I , What's wages when your reputation's in danger ? So I let the wages go , and froze to my reputation . 
And I've never regretted it . 
Reputation's worth everything , ain't it ? That's the way I look at it . 
He had more selfish organs than any seven men in the world all packed in the stern sheets of his skull , of course , where they belonged . 
They weighed down the back of his head so that it made his nose tilt up in the air . 
People thought it was vanity , but it wasn't , it was malice . 
If you only saw his foot , you'd take him to be nineteen feet high , but he wasn't it was because his foot was out of drawing . 
He was intended to be nineteen feet high , no doubt , if his foot was made first , but he didn't get there he was only five feet ten . 
That's what he was , and that's what he is . 
You take the lies out of him , and he'll shrink to the size of your hat you take the malice out of him , and he'll disappear . 
That Cyclone was a rattler to go , and the sweetest thing to steer that ever walked the waters . 
Set her amidships , in a big river , and just let her go it was all you had to do . 
She would hold herself on a star all night , if you let her alone . 
You couldn't ever feel her rudder . 
It wasn't any more labor to steer her than it is to count the Republican vote in a South Carolina election . 
When I had gone about twenty three miles , and made four horribly crooked crossings 'Without any rudder ? 'Yes old Capt . 
And as I was saying , he 'But was this the trip she sunk , or was 'Oh , no ! months afterward . 
, 'YOU take her and lie a while you're handier at it than I am . 
It was to DRAW ME OUT . 
Well , I let you , didn't I ? Now take the wheel and finish the watch and next time play fair , and you won't have to work your passage . 
Thus ended the fictitious name business . 
And not six hours out from St . 
Louis ! but I had gained a privilege , any way , for I had been itching to get my hands on the wheel , from the beginning . 
I seemed to have forgotten the river , but I hadn't forgotten how to steer a steamboat , nor how to enjoy it , either . 
Chapter From Cairo to Hickman THE scenery , from St . 
Louis to Cairo two hundred miles is varied and beautiful . 
The hills were clothed in the fresh foliage of spring now , and were a gracious and worthy setting for the broad river flowing between . 
Our trip began auspiciously , with a perfect day , as to breeze and sunshine , and our boat threw the miles out behind her with satisfactory despatch . 
We found a railway intruding at Chester , Illinois Chester has also a penitentiary now , and is otherwise marching on . 
At Grand Tower , too , there was a railway and another at Cape Girardeau . 
Away down the river we have the Devil's Elbow and the Devil's Race course , and lots of other property of his which I cannot now call to mind . 
Still , it was pleasant to me to see the old coat once more . 
'Uncle' Mumford , our second officer , said the place had been suffering from high water , and consequently was not looking its best now . 
Uncle Mumford said , further , that Grand Tower was a great coaling center and a prospering place . 
Cape Girardeau is situated on a hillside , and makes a handsome appearance . 
There is a great Jesuit school for boys at the foot of the town by the river . 
Uncle Mumford said that Cape Girardeau was the Athens of Missouri , and contained several colleges besides those already mentioned and all of them on a religious basis of one kind or another . 
Partialities often make people see more than really exists . 
Uncle Mumford has been thirty years a mate on the river . 
Uniforms on the Mississippi ! It beats all the other changes put together , for surprise . 
Still , there is another surprise that it was not made fifty years ago . 
It is so manifestly sensible , that it might have been thought of earlier , one would suppose . 
But his troubles are ended now . 
And the greatly improved aspect of the boat's staff is another advantage achieved by the dress reform period . 
Steered down the bend below Cape Girardeau . 
Thebes , at the head of the Grand Chain , and Commerce at the foot of it , were towns easily rememberable , as they had not undergone conspicuous alteration . 
Nor the Chain , either in the nature of things for it is a chain of sunken rocks admirably arranged to capture and kill steamboats on bad nights . 
He said she had a gray mare aboard , and a preacher . 
But you will always notice that they are people who have never traveled with a gray mare and a preacher . 
I went down the river once in such company . 
I remember it as if it were yesterday . 
The men lost their heads with terror . 
They painted the mare blue , in sight of town , and threw the preacher overboard , or we should not have arrived at all . 
The preacher was fished out and saved . 
He acknowledged , himself , that he had been to blame . 
I remember it all , as if it were yesterday . 
No vestige of Hat Island is left now every shred of it is washed away . 
I do not even remember what part of the river it used to be in , except that it was between St . 
It was a bad region all around and about Hat Island , in early days . 
A farmer who lived on the Illinois shore there , said that twenty nine steamboats had left their bones strung along within sight from his house . 
Louis and Cairo the steamboat wrecks average one to the mile two hundred wrecks , altogether . 
I could recognize big changes from Commerce down . 
A big island that used to be away out in mid river , has retired to the Missouri shore , and boats do not go near it any more . 
The island called Jacket Pattern is whittled down to a wedge now , and is booked for early destruction . 
Goose Island is all gone but a little dab the size of a steamboat . 
The perilous 'Graveyard , among whose numberless wrecks we used to pick our way so slowly and gingerly , is far away from the channel now , and a terror to nobody . 
Cairo was still there easily visible across the long , flat point upon whose further verge it stands but we had to steam a long way around to get to it . 
Night fell as we were going out of the 'Upper River' and meeting the floods of the Ohio . 
The Mississippi is a just and equitable river it never tumbles one man's farm overboard without building a new farm just like it for that man's neighbor . 
This keeps down hard feelings . 
Going into Cairo , we came near killing a steamboat which paid no attention to our whistle and then tried to cross our bows . 
By doing some strong backing , we saved him which was a great loss , for he would have made good literature . 
However , it was already building with bricks when I had seen it last which was when Colonel Grant was drilling his first command there . 
Uncle Mumford says the libraries and Sunday schools have done a good work in Cairo , as well as the brick masons . 
Cairo has a heavy railroad and river trade , and her situation at the junction of the two great rivers is so advantageous that she cannot well help prospering . 
When I turned out , in the morning , we had passed Columbus , Kentucky , and were approaching Hickman , a pretty town , perched on a handsome hill . 
Chapter Under Fire TALK began to run upon the war now , for we were getting down into the upper edge of the former battle stretch by this time . 
Columbus was just behind us , so there was a good deal said about the famous battle of Belmont . 
Several of the boat's officers had seen active service in the Mississippi war fleet . 
One of our pilots had his first war experience in the Belmont fight , as a pilot on a boat in the Confederate service . 
THE PILOT'S FIRST BATTLE He said It was the th of November . 
The fight began at seven in the morning . 
I was on the 'R . 
Took over a load of troops from Columbus . 
Came back , and took over a battery of artillery . 
My partner said he was going to see the fight wanted me to go along . 
I said , no , I wasn't anxious , I would look at it from the pilot house . 
He said I was a coward , and left . 
That fight was an awful sight . 
Old General Pillow , with his white hair , mounted on a white horse , sailed in , too , leading his troops as lively as a boy . 
I was sitting with my legs hanging out of the pilot house window . 
All at once I noticed a whizzing sound passing my ear . 
Judged it was a bullet . 
I didn't stop to think about anything , I just tilted over backwards and landed on the floor , and staid there . 
The balls came booming around . 
Three cannon balls went through the chimney one ball took off the corner of the pilot house shells were screaming and bursting all around . 
Mighty warm times I wished I hadn't come . 
I lay there on the pilot house floor , while the shots came faster and faster . 
I crept in behind the big stove , in the middle of the pilot house . 
Presently a minie ball came through the stove , and just grazed my head , and cut my hat . 
I judged it was time to go away from there . 
The captain was on the roof with a red headed major from Memphis a fine looking man . 
I heard him say he wanted to leave here , but 'that pilot is killed . 
I glanced out on the water , and the spattering shot were like a hailstorm . 
I thought best to get out of that place . 
I went down the pilot house guy , head first not feet first but head first slid down before I struck the deck , the captain said we must leave there . 
So I climbed up the guy and got on the floor again . 
About that time , they collared my partner and were bringing him up to the pilot house between two soldiers . 
Somebody had said I was killed . 
He put his head in and saw me on the floor reaching for the backing bells . 
He said , 'Oh , hell , he ain't shot , and jerked away from the men who had him by the collar , and ran below . 
We were there until three o'clock in the afternoon , and then got away all right . 
The next time I saw my partner , I said , 'Now , come out , be honest , and tell me the truth . 
Where did you go when you went to see that battle ? He says , 'I went down in the hold . 
All through that fight I was scared nearly to death . 
I hardly knew anything , I was so frightened but you see , nobody knew that but me . 
Next day General Polk sent for me , and praised me for my bravery and gallant conduct . 
I never said anything , I let it go at that . 
I judged it wasn't so , but it was not for me to contradict a general officer . 
Pretty soon after that I was sick , and used up , and had to go off to the Hot Springs . 
When there , I got a good many letters from commanders saying they wanted me to come back . 
I declined , because I wasn't well enough or strong enough but I kept still , and kept the reputation I had made . 
A plain story , straightforwardly told but Mumford told me that that pilot had 'gilded that scare of his , in spots that his subsequent career in the war was proof of it . 
We struck down through the chute of Island No. , and I went below and fell into conversation with a passenger , a handsome man , with easy carriage and an intelligent face . 
We were approaching Island No. , a place so celebrated during the war . 
This gentleman's home was on the main shore in its neighborhood . 
This gentleman said 'There's been more than one feud around here , in old times , but I reckon the worst one was between the Darnells and the Watsons . 
Some says it was about a horse or a cow anyway , it was a little matter the money in it wasn't of no consequence none in the world both families was rich . 
The thing could have been fixed up , easy enough but no , that wouldn't do . 
Rough words had been passed and so , nothing but blood could fix it up after that . 
They'd shoot one another down , right in the presence of the family . 
They didn't hunt for each other , but when they happened to meet , they puffed and begun . 
Men would shoot boys , boys would shoot men . 
A man shot a boy twelve years old happened on him in the woods , and didn't give him no chance . 
If he HAD 'a' given him a chance , the boy'd 'a' shot him . 
through all this fifty or sixty years' fuss , both tribes was there every Sunday , to worship . 
They lived each side of the line , and the church was at a landing called Compromise . 
Half the church and half the aisle was in Kentucky , the other half in Tennessee . 
I don't know never was at that church in my life but I remember that that's what used to be said . 
'Twenty or twenty five years ago , one of the feud families caught a young man of nineteen out and killed him . 
Windy Marshall told me about it . 
He was captain of the boat . 
'Years ago , the Darnells was so thinned out that the old man and his two sons concluded they'd leave the country . 
The fight begun then , and they never got no further both of them killed . 
After that , old Darnell got into trouble with the man that run the ferry , and the ferry man got the worst of it and died . 
But his friends shot old Darnell through and through filled him full of bullets , and ended him . 
The country gentleman who told me these things had been reared in ease and comfort , was a man of good parts , and was college bred . 
His loose grammar was the fruit of careless habit , not ignorance . 
I heard a Westerner who would be accounted a highly educated man in any country , say 'never mind , it DON'T MAKE NO DIFFERENCE , anyway . 
A life long resident who was present heard it , but it made no impression upon her . 
I found the river greatly changed at Island No. . 
Now , however , one had to hunt for it with a spy glass . 
Nothing was left of it but an insignificant little tuft , and this was no longer near the Kentucky shore it was clear over against the opposite shore , a mile away . 
In war times the island had been an important place , for it commanded the situation and , being heavily fortified , there was no getting by it . 
In this region the river passes from Kentucky into Tennessee , back into Missouri , then back into Kentucky , and thence into Tennessee again . 
So a mile or two of Missouri sticks over into Tennessee . 
The town of New Madrid was looking very unwell but otherwise unchanged from its former condition and aspect . 
Its blocks of frame houses were still grouped in the same old flat plain , and environed by the same old forests . 
It was as tranquil as formerly , and apparently had neither grown nor diminished in size . 
It was said that the recent high water had invaded it and damaged its looks . 
, and in my day an overflow had always been considered an impossibility . 
This present flood of Will doubtless be celebrated in the river's history for several generations before a deluge of like magnitude shall be seen . 
The properties of multitudes of people were under water for months , and the poorer ones must have starved by the hundred if succor had not been promptly afforded . 
Chapter Some Imported Articles WE met two steamboats at New Madrid . 
Two steamboats in sight at once ! an infrequent spectacle now in the lonesome Mississippi . 
The loneliness of this solemn , stupendous flood is impressive and depressing . 
And , mind you , emotions are among the toughest things in the world to manufacture out of whole cloth it is easier to manufacture seven facts than one emotion . 
But it was not till I had visited the same spot a dozen times , that I came to a right comprehension of the grandeur of the scene . 
Following are Mrs. Trollope's emotions . 
I never beheld a scene so utterly desolate as this entrance of the Mississippi . 
Had Dante seen it , he might have drawn images of another Bolgia from its horrors . 
The stream itself appears as if appropriate for the deeds which have been committed . 
or can support themselves long upon its surface without assistance from some friendly log . 
I looked upon it with that reverence with which everyone must regard a great feature of external nature . 
So much for the emotions . 
The tourists , one and all , remark upon the deep , brooding loneliness and desolation of the vast river . 
Captain Basil Hall , who saw it at flood stage , says 'Sometimes we passed along distances of twenty or thirty miles without seeing a single habitation . 
An artist , in search of hints for a painting of the deluge , would here have found them in abundance . 
The first shall be last , etc . 
We quote from Mr. Parkman 'And now they neared their journey's end . 
On the sixth of April , the river divided itself into three broad channels . 
La Salle followed that of the west , and D'Autray that of the east while Tonty took the middle passage . 
The column bore this inscription LOUIS LE GRAND , ROY DE FRANCE ET DE NAVARRE , REGNE LE NEUVIEME AVRIL , . 
Chapter Uncle Mumford Unloads ALL day we swung along down the river , and had the stream almost wholly to ourselves . 
on an itinerant dramatic trip . 
But these were all absent . 
Far along in the day , we saw one steamboat just one , and no more . 
She was lying at rest in the shade , within the wooded mouth of the Obion River . 
The spy glass revealed the fact that she was named for me or HE was named for me , whichever you prefer . 
Noted a big change in the river , at Island . 
As we approached famous and formidable Plum Point , darkness fell , but that was nothing to shudder about in these modem times . 
For now the national government has turned the Mississippi into a sort of two thousand mile torchlight procession . 
In the head of every crossing , and in the foot of every crossing , the government has set up a clear burning lamp . 
You are never entirely in the dark , now there is always a beacon in sight , either before you , or behind you , or abreast . 
One might almost say that lamps have been squandered there . 
But this thing has knocked the romance out of piloting , to a large extent . 
It , and some other things together , have knocked all the romance out of it . 
For instance , the peril from snags is not now what it once was . 
Horace Bixby and George Ritchie have charted the crossings and laid out the courses by compass they have invented a lamp to go with the chart , and have patented the whole . 
With these helps , one may run in the fog now , with considerable security , and with a confidence unknown in the old days . 
And now in these new days , these days of infinite change , the Anchor Line have raised the captain above the pilot by giving him the bigger wages of the two . 
This was going far , but they have not stopped there . 
They have decreed that the pilot shall remain at his post , and stand his watch clear through , whether the boat be under way or tied up to the shore . 
Verily we are being treated like a parcel of mates and engineers . 
The Government has taken away the romance of our calling the Company has taken away its state and dignity . 
The military engineers of the Commission have taken upon their shoulders the job of making the Mississippi over again a job transcended in size by only the original job of creating it . 
UNCLE MUMFORD'S IMPRESSIONS Uncle Mumford said 'As long as I have been mate of a steamboat thirty years I have watched this river and studied it . 
But this ain't that kind of a river . 
They have started in here with big confidence , and the best intentions in the world but they are going to get left . 
say ? Says enough to knock THEIR little game galley west , don't it ? Now you look at their methods once . 
There at Devil's Island , in the Upper River , they wanted the water to go one way , the water wanted to go another . 
So they put up a stone wall . 
But what does the river care for a stone wall ? When it got ready , it just bulged through it . 
Maybe they can build another that will stay that is , up there but not down here they can't . 
Are they going to peg all the banks ? Why , they could buy ground and build a new Mississippi cheaper . 
They are pegging Bulletin Tow head now . 
It won't do any good . 
If the river has got a mortgage on that island , it will foreclose , sure , pegs or no pegs . 
There's been a cut off in that section , and Vicksburg is left out in the cold . 
It's a country town now . 
The river strikes in below it and a boat can't go up to the town except in high water . 
That is , they are going to take this whole Mississippi , and twist it around and make it run several miles UP STREAM . 
Government is doing a deal for the Mississippi , now spending loads of money on her . 
When there used to be four thousand steamboats and ten thousand acres of coal barges , and rafts and trading scows , there wasn't a lantern from St . 
the channel , preserve threatened shores , etc . 
Some believed that the Commission's money ought to be spent only on building and repairing the great system of levees . 
Some believed that the higher you build your levee , the higher the river's bottom will rise and that consequently the levee system is a mistake . 
Some believed in the scheme to relieve the river , in flood time , by turning its surplus waters off into Lake Borgne , etc . 
Some believed in the scheme of northern lake reservoirs to replenish the Mississippi in low water seasons . 
No , there will always be one or two with the other diseases along between . 
And as you proceed , you will find out one or two other things . 
You will find out that there is no distemper of the lot but is contagious and you cannot go where it is without catching it . 
In truth , no one can answer the latter question . 
Mississippi Improvement is a mighty topic , down yonder . 
All were agreed upon one point , however if Congress would make a sufficient appropriation , a colossal benefit would result . 
Very well since then the appropriation has been made possibly a sufficient one , certainly not too large a one . 
Let us hope that the prophecy will be amply fulfilled . 
What he has to say about Mississippi River Improvement will be found in the Appendix . 
Here is a case of the sort paragraph from the 'Cincinnati Commercial' 'The towboat Jos . 
of coal exclusive of her own fuel , being the largest tow ever taken to New Orleans or anywhere else in the world . 
Her freight bill , at cents a bushel , amounts to , . 
It would take eighteen hundred cars , of three hundred and thirty three bushels to the car , to transport this amount of coal . 
The tow will be taken from Pittsburg to New Orleans in fourteen or fifteen days . 
More of the river's freaks . 
In times past , the channel used to strike above Island , by Brandywine Bar , and down towards Island . 
All that region is now called Centennial Island . 
There is a tradition that Island was one of the principal abiding places of the once celebrated 'Murel's Gang . 
This was a colossal combination of robbers , horse thieves , negro stealers , and counterfeiters , engaged in business along the river some fifty or sixty years ago . 
While our journey across the country towards St . 
Cheap histories of him were for sale by train boys . 
According to these , he was the most marvelous creature of his kind that had ever existed . 
James was a retail rascal Murel , wholesale . 
An advertisement of this kind warrants the person to take the property , if found . 
The names of all the principal confederates of Murel were obtained from himself , in a manner which I shall presently explain . 
The gang was composed of two classes the Heads or Council , as they were called , who planned and concerted , but seldom acted they amounted to about four hundred . 
The other class were the active agents , and were termed strikers , and amounted to about six hundred and fifty . 
The general rendezvous of this gang of miscreants was on the Arkansas side of the river , where they concealed their negroes in the morasses and cane brakes . 
He was obliged to quit the Southern States in consequence . 
I will quote one or two portions of Murel's confessions to Mr. Stewart , made to him when they were journeying together . 
Every man's business being assigned him , I started to Natchez on foot , having sold my horse in New Orleans , with the intention of stealing another after I started . 
I walked four days , and no opportunity offered for me to get a horse . 
The fifth day , about twelve , I had become tired , and stopped at a creek to get some water and rest a little . 
While I was sitting on a log , looking down the road the way that I had come , a man came in sight riding on a good looking horse . 
The very moment I saw him , I was determined to have his horse , if he was in the garb of a traveler . 
He rode up , and I saw from his equipage that he was a traveler . 
I arose and drew an elegant rifle pistol on him and ordered him to dismount . 
He did so , and I took his horse by the bridle and pointed down the creek , and ordered him to walk before me . 
He went a few hundred yards and stopped . 
I hitched his horse , and then made him undress himself , all to his shirt and drawers , and ordered him to turn his back to me . 
He said , 'If you are determined to kill me , let me have time to pray before I die , I told him I had no time to hear him pray . 
He turned around and dropped on his knees , and I shot him through the back of the head . 
I ripped open his belly and took out his entrails , and sunk him in the creek . 
I then searched his pockets , and found four hundred dollars and thirty seven cents , and a number of papers that I did not take time to examine . 
I sunk the pocket book and papers and his hat , in the creek . 
His boots were brand new , and fitted me genteelly and I put them on and sunk my old shoes in the creek , to atone for them . 
I rolled up his clothes and put them into his portmanteau , as they were brand new cloth of the best quality . 
I mounted as fine a horse as ever I straddled , and directed my course for Natchez in much better style than I had been for the last five days . 
'Myself and a fellow by the name of Crenshaw gathered four good horses and started for Georgia . 
We got in company with a young South Carolinian just before we got to Cumberland Mountain , and Crenshaw soon knew all about his business . 
He had been to Tennessee to buy a drove of hogs , but when he got there pork was dearer than he calculated , and he declined purchasing . 
We concluded he was a prize . 
Crenshaw winked at me I understood his idea . 
, and a description of the two men of whom he had been purchased , and giving his suspicions of the men . 
We took out his entrails and sunk him in the creek . 
We were approaching Memphis , in front of which city , and witnessed by its people , was fought the most famous of the river battles of the Civil War . 
Both saw a great deal of active service during the war , and achieved high reputations for pluck and capacity . 
As we neared Memphis , we began to cast about for an excuse to stay with the 'Gold Dust' to the end of her course Vicksburg . 
We were so pleasantly situated , that we did not wish to make a change . 
I had an errand of considerable importance to do at Napoleon , Arkansas , but perhaps I could manage it without quitting the 'Gold Dust . 
I said as much so we decided to stick to present quarters . 
The boat was to tarry at Memphis till ten the next morning . 
It is a beautiful city , nobly situated on a commanding bluff overlooking the river . 
The streets are straight and spacious , though not paved in a way to incite distempered admiration . 
Business stood nearly still , and the streets bore an empty Sunday aspect . 
Here is a picture of Memphis , at that disastrous time , drawn by a German tourist who seems to have been an eye witness of the scenes which he describes . 
It is from Chapter VII , of his book , just published , in Leipzig , 'Mississippi Fahrten , von Ernst von Hesse Wartegg . 
'In August the yellow fever had reached its extremest height . 
Daily , hundreds fell a sacrifice to the terrible epidemic . 
The houses were closed little lamps burned in front of many a sign that here death had entered . 
Often , several lay dead in a single house from the windows hung black crape . 
The stores were shut up , for their owners were gone away or dead . 
'Fearful evil ! In the briefest space it struck down and swept away even the most vigorous victim . 
Meat spoiled in a few hours in the fetid and pestiferous air , and turned black . 
In the night stillness reigns . 
But there is life enough there now . 
The population exceeds forty thousand and is augmenting , and trade is in a flourishing condition . 
Her cotton receipts reached five hundred thousand bales last year an increase of sixty thousand over the year before . 
Out from her healthy commercial heart issue five trunk lines of railway and a sixth is being added . 
This is a very different Memphis from the one which the vanished and unremembered procession of foreign tourists used to put into their books long time ago . 
That was fifty five years ago . 
She stopped at the hotel . 
Plainly it was not the one which gave us our breakfast . 
She says 'The table was laid for fifty persons , and was nearly full . 
stands for an unpleasant word there , a word which she does not always charitably cover up , but sometimes prints . 
A melancholy picture , and a continuous one hundreds of miles of it . 
Yet I was told that the work is faithfully performed , in all weathers and not always by men , sometimes by women , if the man is sick or absent . 
The Government furnishes oil , and pays ten or fifteen dollars a month for the lighting and tending . 
A Government boat distributes oil and pays wages once a month . 
The Ship Island region was as woodsy and tenantless as ever . 
The island has ceased to be an island has joined itself compactly to the main shore , and wagons travel , now , where the steamboats used to navigate . 
No signs left of the wreck of the 'Pennsylvania . 
Some farmer will turn up her bones with his plow one day , no doubt , and be surprised . 
We were getting down now into the migrating negro region . 
These poor people could never travel when they were slaves so they make up for the privation now . 
They stay on a plantation till the desire to travel seizes them then they pack up , hail a steamboat , and clear out . 
Not for any particular place no , nearly any place will answer they only want to be moving . 
The amount of money on hand will answer the rest of the conundrum for them . 
If it will take them fifty miles , very well let it be fifty . 
If not , a shorter flight will do . 
During a couple of days , we frequently answered these hails . 
They must have their dogs can't go without their dogs . 
Sometimes a child is forgotten and left on the bank but never a dog . 
The usual river gossip going on in the pilot house . 
Island No. an island with a lovely 'chute , or passage , behind it in the former times . 
The 'Eclipse' was renowned for her swiftness . 
One day she passed along an old darkey on shore , absorbed in his own matters , did not notice what steamer it was . 
Presently someone asked 'Any boat gone up ? 'Yes , sah . 
'Was she going fast ? 'Oh , so so loafin' along . 
'Now , do you know what boat that was ? 'No , sah . 
'Why , uncle , that was the Eclipse . 
A said , 'Let the thing remain so I will use your rails , and you use mine . 
But B objected wouldn't have it so . 
One day , A came down on B's ground to get his rails . 
B said , 'I'll kill you ! and proceeded for him with his revolver . 
A said , 'I'm not armed . 
Struggling around , A managed to get his hands on the discarded revolver , and shot B dead with it and recovered from his own injuries . 
Further gossip after which , everybody went below to get afternoon coffee , and left me at the wheel , alone , Something presently reminded me of our last hour in St . 
Louis , part of which I spent on this boat's hurricane deck , aft . 
Asked me where I was from . 
I answered , New England . 
'Oh , a Yank ! said he and went chatting straight along , without waiting for assent or denial . 
He immediately proposed to take me all over the boat and tell me the names of her different parts , and teach me their uses . 
He gave me a world of misinformation and the further he went , the wider his imagination expanded , and the more he enjoyed his cruel work of deceit . 
I staid faithfully by him until his comedy was finished . 
'Anything about this boat that you don't know the name of or the purpose of , you come to me and I'll tell you . 
I said I would , and took my departure disappeared , and approached him from another quarter , whence he could not see me . 
There he sat , all alone , doubling himself up and writhing this way and that , in the throes of unappeasable laughter . 
He must have made himself sick for he was not publicly visible afterward for several days . 
Meantime , the episode dropped out of my mind . 
I don't know when I have seen anybody look so injured as he did . 
He did not say anything simply stood there and looked reproachfully looked and pondered . 
'Yes , you did DIDN'T you ? 'Yes . 
You are the feller that that Language failed . 
Pause impotent struggle for further words then he gave it up , choked out a deep , strong oath , and departed for good . 
Afterward I saw him several times below during the trip but he was cold would not look at me . 
I had myself called with the four o'clock watch , mornings , for one cannot see too many summer sunrises on the Mississippi . 
First , there is the eloquence of silence for a deep hush broods everywhere . 
Next , there is the haunting sense of loneliness , isolation , remoteness from the worry and bustle of the world . 
Then a bird pipes up , another follows , and soon the pipings develop into a jubilant riot of music . 
You see none of the birds you simply move through an atmosphere of song which seems to sing itself . 
When the light has become a little stronger , you have one of the fairest and softest pictures imaginable . 
And all this stretch of river is a mirror , and you have the shadowy reflections of the leafage and the curving shores and the receding capes pictured in it . 
One night the boat struck a snag in the head of Kentucky Bend , and sank with astonishing suddenness water already well above the cabin floor when the captain got aft . 
Helena we visited , and also a town I had not heard of before , it being of recent birth Arkansas City . 
It was born of a railway the Little Rock , Mississippi River and Texas Railroad touches the river there . 
We asked a passenger who belonged there what sort of a place it was . 
'Well , said he , after considering , and with the air of one who wishes to take time and be accurate , 'It's a hell of a place . 
A description which was photographic for exactness . 
I had never seen this kind of a mill before . 
Cotton seed was comparatively valueless in my time but it is worth or a ton now , and none of it is thrown away . 
The oil made from it is colorless , tasteless , and almost if not entirely odorless . 
Sagacious people shipped it to Italy , doctored it , labeled it , and brought it back as olive oil . 
This trade grew to be so formidable that Italy was obliged to put a prohibitory impost upon it to keep it from working serious injury to her oil industry . 
Helena occupies one of the prettiest situations on the Mississippi . 
Her perch is the last , the southernmost group of hills which one sees on that side of the river . 
A Mississippi inundation is the next most wasting and desolating infliction to a fire . 
We had an enjoyable time here , on this sunny Sunday two full hours' liberty ashore while the boat discharged freight . 
Helena is the second town in Arkansas , in point of population which is placed at five thousand . 
The country about it is exceptionally productive . 
She has two railways , and is the commercial center of a broad and prosperous region . 
Her gross receipts of money , annually , from all sources , are placed by the New Orleans 'Times Democrat' at , , . 
Chapter A Thumb print and What Came of It WE were approaching Napoleon , Arkansas . 
So I began to think about my errand there . 
Time , noonday and bright and sunny . 
This was bad not best , anyway for mine was not a noonday kind of errand . 
The more I thought , the more that fact pushed itself upon me now in one form , now in another . 
Plain question and plain answer make the shortest road out of most perplexities . 
Their disapproval was prompt and loud their language mutinous . 
as if , having determined to do an unwise thing , one is thereby bound to go ahead and make TWO unwise things of it , by carrying out that determination . 
She and her two young children used to drop in every morning and talk German to me by request . 
It was a grisly place , that spacious room . 
But I was rebuked for trying to feed an idle and frivolous curiosity in so solemn and so mournful a place and went my way with a humbled crest . 
Next morning I was telling the widow my adventure , when she exclaimed 'Come with me ! I have a lodger who shall tell you all you want to know . 
He has been a night watchman there . 
He was a living man , but he did not look it . 
The widow began her introduction of me . 
The man's eyes opened slowly , and glittered wickedly out from the twilight of their caverns he frowned a black frown he lifted his lean hand and waved us peremptorily away . 
But the widow kept straight on , till she had got out the fact that I was a stranger and an American . 
The man's face changed at once brightened , became even eager and the next moment he and I were alone together . 
I opened up in cast iron German he responded in quite flexible English thereafter we gave the German language a permanent rest . 
This consumptive and I became good friends . 
I visited him every day , and we talked about everything . 
At least , about everything but wives and children . 
When I had been this Karl Ritter's daily and sole intimate during two months , he one day said , abruptly 'I will tell you my story . 
A DYING MAN S CONFESSION Then he went on as follows I have never given up , until now . 
But now I have given up . 
I am going to die . 
I made up my mind last night that it must be , and very soon , too . 
You say you are going to revisit your river , by and bye , when you find opportunity . 
Let us shorten the story wherever we can , for it will need it , being long . 
You already know how I came to go to America , and how I came to settle in that lonely region in the South . 
But you do not know that I had a wife . 
My wife was young , beautiful , loving , and oh , so divinely good and blameless and gentle ! And our little girl was her mother in miniature . 
It was the happiest of happy households . 
'Shut up your whining had to change the plan when they waked up you done all you could to protect them , now let that satisfy you come , help rummage . 
They rummaged around my poor cabin for a moment the head bandit then said , in his stage whisper 'It's a waste of time he shall tell where it's hid . 
Undo his gag , and revive him up . 
The other said 'All right provided no clubbing . 
'No clubbing it is , then provided he keeps still . 
'The captain's voice , by G ! said the stage whispering ruffian , and both robbers fled by the way of the back door , shutting off their bull's eye as they ran . 
The strangers shouted several times more , then rode by there seemed to be a dozen of the horses and I heard nothing more . 
I struggled , but could not free myself from my bonds . 
I tried to speak , but the gag was effective I could not make a sound . 
I listened for my wife's voice and my child's listened long and intently , but no sound came from the other end of the room where their bed was . 
This silence became more and more awful , more and more ominous , every moment . 
Could you have endured an hour of it , do you think ? Pity me , then , who had to endure three . 
Three hours ? it was three ages ! Whenever the clock struck , it seemed as if years had gone by since I had heard it last . 
All this time I was struggling in my bonds and at last , about dawn , I got myself free , and rose up and stretched my stiff limbs . 
I was able to distinguish details pretty well . 
The floor was littered with things thrown there by the robbers during their search for my savings . 
The first object that caught my particular attention was a document of mine which I had seen the rougher of the two ruffians glance at and then cast away . 
It had blood on it ! I staggered to the other end of the room . 
I shall come to that , presently you shall see . 
Let us go on , now , taking things in their due order . 
So I thought , but said nothing . 
And one of them had said , 'the captain's voice , by G ! the one whose life I would have . 
Two miles away , several regiments were in camp , and two companies of U. S. cavalry . 
In conversation I studiously and persistently described the robbers as tramps , camp followers and among this class the people made useless search , none suspecting the soldiers but me . 
When Company C arrived in Napoleon , I was already there . 
Yes , I was there , with a new trade fortune teller . 
Not to seem partial , I made friends and told fortunes among all the companies garrisoned there but I gave Company C the great bulk of my attentions . 
I made myself limitlessly obliging to these particular men they could ask me no favor , put upon me no risk , which I would decline . 
I became the willing butt of their jokes this perfected my popularity I became a favorite . 
This man's name was Kruger , a German . 
There were nine Germans in the company . 
I watched , to see who might be his intimates but he seemed to have no especial intimates . 
But I was his intimate and I took care to make the intimacy grow . 
I bided my time , and went on telling fortunes , as opportunity offered . 
My apparatus was simple a little red paint and a bit of white paper . 
I painted the ball of the client's thumb , took a print of it on the paper , studied it that night , and revealed his fortune to him next day . 
He always said that pictures were no good future disguises could make them useless 'The thumb's the only sure thing , said he 'you can't disguise that . 
And he used to prove his theory , too , on my friends and acquaintances it always succeeded . 
I went on telling fortunes . 
Every night I shut myself in , all alone , and studied the day's thumb prints with a magnifying glass . 
It was the print of the thumb of the forty third man of Company C whom I had experimented on Private Franz Adler . 
Still , there was a way to MAKE sure . 
I had an impression of Kruger's left thumb . 
This was all I wanted . 
And I tried to get rid of the fool but no , he clung to me , imploring me to save him from the assassin . 
He said 'I have money ten thousand dollars hid away , the fruit of loot and thievery save me tell me what to do , and you shall have it , every penny . 
Two thirds of it is my cousin Adler's but you can take it all . 
We hid it when we first came here . 
But I hid it in a new place yesterday , and have not told him shall not tell him . 
I was going to desert , and get away with it all . 
There's a piece of paper in the back of the case , which tells it all . 
I said to poor Kruger 'Put up your watch , I don't want it . 
You shan't come to any harm . 
Go , now I must tell Adler his fortune . 
Presently I will tell you how to escape the assassin meantime I shall have to examine your thumbmark again . 
Say nothing to Adler about this thing say nothing to anybody . 
He went away filled with fright and gratitude , poor devil . 
They always kept a picket watch outside the town mere discipline and ceremony no occasion for it , no enemy around . 
Toward midnight I set out , equipped with the countersign , and picked my way toward the lonely region where Adler was to keep his watch . 
It was so dark that I stumbled right on a dim figure almost before I could get out a protecting word . 
The sentinel hailed and I answered , both at the same moment . 
I added , 'It's only me the fortune teller . 
I fled through the woods , and made good my escape , leaving the accusing goggles behind me in that dead man's hand . 
This was fifteen or sixteen years ago . 
I had wandered into Munich , in my purposeless way . 
The place suited my mood . 
I liked being with the dead liked being alone with them . 
I used to wander among those rigid corpses , and peer into their austere faces , by the hour . 
The later the time , the more impressive it was I preferred the late time . 
Sometimes I turned the lights low this gave perspective , you see and the imagination could play always , the dim receding ranks of the dead inspired one with weird and fascinating fancies . 
I gathered myself together and flew to the corpse room . 
About midway down the outside rank , a shrouded figure was sitting upright , wagging its head slowly from one side to the other a grisly spectacle ! Its side was toward me . 
I hurried to it and peered into its face . 
Doubtless they will listen and have pity but here there is none else that will . 
He tried to speak , but that part of the shroud which bound his jaws , held firm and would not let him . 
He tried to lift imploring hands , but they were crossed upon his breast and tied . 
I said 'Shout , Franz Adler make the sleepers in the distant streets hear you and bring help . 
Shout and lose no time , for there is little to lose . 
What , you cannot ? That is a pity but it is no matter it does not always bring help . 
Ah , I see your hands are tied , they cannot aid you . 
How strangely things repeat themselves , after long years for MY hands were tied , that night , you remember ? Yes , tied much as yours are now how odd that is . 
I could not pull free . 
It did not occur to you to untie me it does not occur to me to untie you . 
Sh ! there's a late footstep . 
It is coming this way . 
Hark , how near it is ! One can count the footfalls one two three . 
There it is just outside . 
There it is dying out . 
It is gone ! Think of it reflect upon it you have heard a human footstep for the last time . 
How curious it must be , to listen to so common a sound as that , and know that one will never hear the fellow to it again . 
I persuaded him to rob you and I and a woman helped him to desert , and got him away in safety . 
A look as of surprise and triumph shone out dimly through the anguish in my victim's face . 
I was disturbed , disquieted . 
I said 'What , then didn't he escape ? A negative shake of the head . 
'No ? What happened , then ? The satisfaction in the shrouded face was still plainer . 
'Failed to escape ? caught in the act and shot ? Negative shake of the head . 
'How , then ? Again the man tried to do something with his hands . 
I watched closely , but could not guess the intent . 
I bent over and watched still more intently . 
He had twisted a thumb around and was weakly punching at his breast with it . 
The affirmative nod of the re dying rascal was as joyous as his failing strength was able to put into its expression . 
I took my face out of my hands , and saw my enemy sinking back upon his inclined board . 
He was a satisfactory long time dying . 
He had a wonderful vitality , an astonishing constitution . 
Yes , he was a pleasant long time at it . 
I got a chair and a newspaper , and sat down by him and read . 
Occasionally I took a sip of brandy . 
This was necessary , on account of the cold . 
But I did it partly because I saw , that along at first , whenever I reached for the bottle , he thought I was going to give him some . 
I read aloud mainly imaginary accounts of people snatched from the grave's threshold and restored to life and vigor by a few spoonsful of liquor and a warm bath . 
Yes , he had a long , hard death of it three hours and six minutes , from the time he rang his bell . 
It is believed that in all these eighteen years that have elapsed since the institution of the corpse watch , no shrouded occupant of the Bavarian dead houses has ever rung its bell . 
Well , it is a harmless belief . 
Let it stand at that . 
The chill of that death room had penetrated my bones . 
It revived and fastened upon me the disease which had been afflicting me , but which , up to that night , had been steadily disappearing . 
That man murdered my wife and my child and in three days hence he will have added me to his list . 
No matter God ! how delicious the memory of it ! I caught him escaping from his grave , and thrust him back into it . 
A wretched lodging house , it was . 
It was my idea that he would naturally have gotten hold of Kruger's effects , being his cousin and I wanted to get Kruger's watch , if I could . 
But while I was sick , Adler's things had been sold and scattered , all except a few old letters , and some odds and ends of no value . 
However , through those letters , I traced out a son of Kruger's , the only relative left . 
He is a man of thirty now , a shoemaker by trade , and living at No. Konigstrasse , Mannheim widower , with several small children . 
Without explaining to him why , I have furnished two thirds of his support , ever since . 
Of course I gave up that ten thousand dollars then gave it up , and dropped it out of my mind and most sorrowfully , for I had wanted it for Kruger's son . 
Last night , when I consented at last that I must die , I began to make ready . 
Here it is I will translate it 'Brick livery stable , stone foundation , middle of town , corner of Orleans and Market . 
Third stone , fourth row . 
Stick notice there , saying how many are to come . 
There take it , and preserve it . 
Kruger explained that that stone was removable and that it was in the north wall of the foundation , fourth row from the top , and third stone from the west . 
The money is secreted behind it . 
He said the closing sentence was a blind , to mislead in case the paper should fall into wrong hands . 
It probably performed that office for Adler . 
Chapter The Disposal of a Bonanza 'SUCH was Ritter's narrative , said I to my two friends . 
Then my friends began to cool down , and draw off , under shelter of occasional volleys , into silence and abysmal reverie . 
For ten minutes now , there was stillness . 
Then Rogers said dreamily 'Ten thousand dollars . 
Adding , after a considerable pause 'Ten thousand . 
It is a heap of money . 
Presently the poet inquired 'Are you going to send it to him right away ? 'Yes , I said . 
'It is a queer question . 
After a little , Rogers asked , hesitatingly 'ALL of it ? That is I mean 'Certainly , all of it . 
I was going to say more , but stopped was stopped by a train of thought which started up in me . 
Thompson spoke , but my mind was absent , and I did not catch what he said . 
But I heard Rogers answer 'Yes , it seems so to me . 
It ought to be quite sufficient for I don't see that he has done anything . 
Presently the poet said 'When you come to look at it , it is more than sufficient . 
'He is happy where he is , and AS he is . 
Every sentiment of honor , every sentiment of charity , every sentiment of high and sacred benevolence warns us , beseeches us , commands us to leave him undisturbed . 
That is real friendship , that is true friendship . 
We could follow other courses that would be more showy but none that would be so truly kind and wise , depend upon it . 
After some further talk , it became evident that each of us , down in his heart , felt some misgivings over this settlement of the matter . 
It was manifest that we all felt that we ought to send the poor shoemaker SOMETHING . 
There was long and thoughtful discussion of this point and we finally decided to send him a chromo . 
That was not my idea . 
I said that if they got half of it between them they might consider themselves lucky . 
Rogers said 'Who would have had ANY if it hadn't been for me ? I flung out the first hint but for that it would all have gone to the shoemaker . 
Thompson said that he was thinking of the thing himself at the very moment that Rogers had originally spoken . 
I retorted that the idea would have occurred to me plenty soon enough , and without anybody's help . 
I was slow about thinking , maybe , but I was sure . 
This matter warmed up into a quarrel then into a fight and each man got pretty badly battered . 
As soon as I had got myself mended up after a fashion , I ascended to the hurricane deck in a pretty sour humor . 
I found Captain McCord there , and said , as pleasantly as my humor would permit 'I have come to say good bye , captain . 
I wish to go ashore at Napoleon . 
'Go ashore where ? 'Napoleon . 
The captain laughed but seeing that I was not in a jovial mood , stopped that and said 'But are you serious ? 'Serious ? I certainly am . 
The captain glanced up at the pilot house and said 'He wants to get off at Napoleon ! 'Napoleon ? 'That's what he says . 
'Great Caesar's ghost ! Uncle Mumford approached along the deck . 
Hasn't been for years and years . 
just a fifteen minute job . 
Didn't leave hide nor hair , shred nor shingle of it , except the fag end of a shanty and one brick chimney . 
This boat is paddling along right now , where the dead center of that town used to be yonder is the brick chimney all that's left of Napoleon . 
These dense woods on the right used to be a mile back of the town . 
Take a look behind you up stream now you begin to recognize this country , don't you ? 'Yes , I do recognize it now . 
It is the most wonderful thing I ever heard of by a long shot the most wonderful and unexpected . 
Mr. Thompson and Mr. Rogers had arrived , meantime , with satchels and umbrellas , and had silently listened to the captain's news . 
Thompson put a half dollar in my hand and said softly 'For my share of the chromo . 
When the State of Arkansas was chartered , she controlled 'to the center of the river' a most unstable line . 
The State of Mississippi claimed 'to the channel' another shifty and unstable line . 
By and by a cut off threw this big island out of Arkansas , and yet not within Mississippi . 
'Middle of the river' on one side of it , 'channel' on the other . 
That is as I understand the problem . 
One man owns the whole island , and of right is 'the man without a country . 
The river moved it over and joined it to Mississippi . 
A chap established a whiskey shop there , without a Mississippi license , and enriched himself upon Mississippi custom under Arkansas protection . 
We glided steadily down the river in the usual privacy steamboat or other moving thing seldom seen . 
Scenery as always stretch upon stretch of almost unbroken forest , on both sides of the river soundless solitude . 
There was much talk on the boat about the Calhoun Land Company , an enterprise which is expected to work wholesome results . 
furnish them comfortable quarters , etc . 
, and encourage them to save money and remain on the place . 
If this proves a financial success , as seems quite certain , they propose to establish a banking house in Greenville , and lend money at an unburdensome rate of interest per cent . 
Consequently , the commission dealer who furnishes the money takes some risk and demands big interest usually per cent . 
, and half per cent . 
The planter has also to buy his supplies through the same dealer , paying commissions and profits . 
Then when he ships his crop , the dealer adds his commissions , insurance , etc . 
So , taking it by and large , and first and last , the dealer's share of that crop is about per cent . 
footnote 'But what can the State do where the people are under subjection to rates of interest ranging from to per cent . 
, and are also under the necessity of purchasing their crops in advance even of planting , at these rates , for the privilege of purchasing all their supplies at per cent . 
There is also a profit now from the cotton seed , which formerly had little value none where much transportation was necessary . 
In sixteen hundred pounds crude cotton four hundred are lint , worth , say , ten cents a pound and twelve hundred pounds of seed , worth or per ton . 
Maybe in future even the stems will not be thrown away . 
, the stem mixture makes a superior food , rich in all the elements needed for the production of milk , meat , and bone . 
Heretofore the stems have been considered a nuisance . 
Thinks they 'don't know anything but cotton believes they don't know how to raise vegetables and fruit 'at least the most of them . 
Barkeeper buys watermelons for five cents up the river , brings them down and sells them for fifty . 
'Why does he mix such elaborate and picturesque drinks for the nigger hands on the boat ? Because they won't have any other . 
'They want a big drink don't make any difference what you make it of , they want the worth of their money . 
You give a nigger a plain gill of half a dollar brandy for five cents will he touch it ? No. Ain't size enough to it . 
All the bars on this Anchor Line are rented and owned by one firm . 
They furnish the liquors from their own establishment , and hire the barkeepers 'on salary . 
Good liquors ? Yes , on some of the boats , where there are the kind of passengers that want it and can pay for it . 
On the other boats ? No. Nobody but the deck hands and firemen to drink it . 
'Brandy ? Yes , I've got brandy , plenty of it but you don't want any of it unless you've made your will . 
It isn't as it used to be in the old times . 
Then everybody traveled by steamboat , everybody drank , and everybody treated everybody else . 
'Now most everybody goes by railroad , and the rest don't drink . 
A father who left his son a steamboat bar , left him a fortune . 
Now he leaves him board and lodging yes , and washing , if a shirt a trip will do . 
Yes , indeedy , times are changed . 
Chapter Tough Yarns STACK ISLAND . 
A Mr. H. furnished some minor details of fact concerning this region which I would have hesitated to believe if I had not known him to be a steamboat mate . 
He was a passenger of ours , a resident of Arkansas City , and bound to Vicksburg to join his boat , a little Sunflower packet . 
He was an austere man , and had the reputation of being singularly unworldly , for a river man . 
Among other things , he said that Arkansas had been injured and kept back by generations of exaggerations concerning the mosquitoes here . 
He told many remarkable things about those lawless insects . 
Among others , said he had seen them try to vote . 
There was another passenger friend of H. 's who backed up the harsh evidence against those mosquitoes , and detailed some stirring adventures which he had had with them . 
The stories were pretty sizable , merely pretty sizable yet Mr. H. was continually interrupting with a cold , inexorable 'Wait knock off twenty five per cent . 
Chapter Vicksburg During the Trouble WE used to plow past the lofty hill city , Vicksburg , down stream but we cannot do that now . 
A cut off has made a country town of it , like Osceola , St . 
Genevieve , and several others . 
There is currentless water also a big island in front of Vicksburg now . 
Signs and scars still remain , as reminders of Vicksburg's tremendous war experiences earthworks , trees crippled by the cannon balls , cave refuges in the clay precipices , etc . 
The caves did good service during the six weeks' bombardment of the city May to July , . 
They were used by the non combatants mainly by the women and children not to live in constantly , but to fly to for safety on occasion . 
They were mere holes , tunnels , driven into the perpendicular clay bank , then branched Y shape , within the hill . 
By tongue or pen he can make a landsman live that strange and stirring voyage over with him make him see it all and feel it all . 
But if he wait ? If he make ten voyages in succession what then ? Why , the thing has lost color , snap , surprise and has become commonplace . 
The man would have nothing to tell that would quicken a landsman's pulse . 
Years ago , I talked with a couple of the Vicksburg non combatants a man and his wife . 
Left to tell their story in their own way , those people told it without fire , almost without interest . 
After that , the possibility of their ever being startlingly interesting in their talks about it was gone . 
What the man said was to this effect 'It got to be Sunday all the time . 
Seven Sundays in the week to us , anyway . 
We hadn't anything to do , and time hung heavy . 
At first we used to shin for the holes a good deal faster than we did afterwards . 
The first time , I forgot the children , and Maria fetched them both along . 
When she was all safe in the cave she fainted . 
Well , she stopped to get that game bag before she shoved along again ! Was getting used to things already , you see . 
We all got so that we could tell a good deal about shells and after that we didn't always go under shelter if it was a light shower . 
If a shell was bursting close over us , we stopped talking and stood still uncomfortable , yes , but it wasn't safe to move . 
In that case , every fellow just whipped out a sudden , 'See you again , gents ! and shoved . 
Streets in some towns have a litter of pieces of paper , and odds and ends of one sort or another lying around . 
Ours hadn't they had IRON litter . 
No glass left glass couldn't stand such a bombardment it was all shivered out . 
Windows of the houses vacant looked like eye holes in a skull . 
WHOLE panes were as scarce as news . 
Not many there , along at first but by and bye pretty good turnouts . 
Organs and church music mixed up with a bombardment is a powerful queer combination along at first . 
Coming out of church , one morning , we had an accident the only one that happened around me on a Sunday . 
Whiskey , I was going to say , you know , but a shell interrupted . 
A chunk of it cut the man's arm off , and left it dangling in my hand . 
'Sometimes the caves were desperately crowded , and always hot and close . 
Sometimes a cave had twenty or twenty five people packed into it no turning room for anybody air so foul , sometimes , you couldn't have made a candle burn in it . 
A child was born in one of those caves one night , Think of that why , it was like having it born in a trunk . 
'Twice we had sixteen people in our cave and a number of times we had a dozen . 
We always had eight eight belonged there . 
They all died but three of us within a couple of years . 
One night a shell burst in front of the hole and caved it in and stopped it up . 
It was lively times , for a while , digging out . 
Some of us came near smothering . 
After that we made two openings ought to have thought of it at first . 
No , we only got down to that the last day or two . 
Of course it was good anything is good when you are starving . 
This man had kept a diary during six weeks ? No , only the first six days . 
The war history of Vicksburg has more about it to interest the general reader than that of any other of the river towns . 
It is full of variety , full of incident , full of the picturesque . 
The most beautiful of all the national cemeteries is here . 
Everything about this cemetery suggests the hand of the national Government . 
The Government's work is always conspicuous for excellence , solidity , thoroughness , neatness . 
The Government does its work well in the first place , and then takes care of it . 
It overlooks a picturesque region of wooded hills and ravines and is not unpicturesque itself , being well smothered in flowering weeds . 
The battered remnant of the marble monument has been removed to the National Cemetery . 
Apparently , nearly all the river towns , big and little , have made up their minds that they must look mainly to railroads for wealth and upbuilding , henceforth . 
They are acting upon this idea . 
And yet , if one may judge by the past , the river towns will manage to find and use a chance , here and there , to cripple and retard their progress . 
Boats were charged such heavy wharfage that they could not afford to land for one or two passengers or a light lot of freight . 
Instead of encouraging the bringing of trade to their doors , the towns diligently and effectively discouraged it . 
They could have had many boats and low rates but their policy rendered few boats and high rates compulsory . 
It was a policy which extended and extends from New Orleans to St . 
Here is a story which I picked up on board the boat that night . 
I insert it in this place merely because it is a good story , not because it belongs here for it doesn't . 
Chapter The Professor's Yarn IT was in the early days . 
I was not a college professor then . 
I was a humble minded young land surveyor , with the world before me to survey , in case anybody wanted it done . 
I had a contract to survey a route for a great mining ditch in California , and I was on my way thither , by sea a three or four weeks' voyage . 
There were a good many passengers , but I had very little to say to them reading and dreaming were my passions , and I avoided conversation in order to indulge these appetites . 
There were three professional gamblers on board rough , repulsive fellows . 
Besides , there was something engaging in his countrified simplicity and his beaming good nature . 
And meantime I think he had managed to get out of me everything I knew about my trade , my tribe , my purposes , my prospects , and myself . 
He was a gentle and persuasive genius , and this thing showed it for I was not given to talking about my matters . 
What an enthusiast he was in cattle ! At the bare name of a bull or a cow , his eye would light and his eloquent tongue would turn itself loose . 
As long as I would walk and listen , he would walk and talk he knew all breeds , he loved all breeds , he caressed them all with his affectionate tongue . 
Arrived there , he put his head out , glanced up and down the saloon warily , then closed the door and locked it . 
I've raked and scraped and saved , a considerable many years , and I've got it all here . 
There's mints of money in it , in Californy . 
I interrupted , and said severely 'I am not that kind of a surveyor . 
Let us change the subject , Mr. Backus . 
It was pitiful to see his confusion and hear his awkward and shamefaced apologies . 
I was as much distressed as he was especially as he seemed so far from having suspected that there was anything improper in his proposition . 
So I hastened to console him and lead him on to forget his mishap in a conversational orgy about cattle and butchery . 
We were lying at Acapulco and , as we went on deck , it happened luckily that the crew were just beginning to hoist some beeves aboard in slings . 
Backus's melancholy vanished instantly , and with it the memory of his late mistake . 
'Now only look at that ! cried he 'My goodness , Triangle , what WOULD they say to it in OHIO . 
As I moved away , I saw one of the gamblers approach and accost him then another of them then the third . 
I halted waited watched the conversation continued between the four men it grew earnest Backus drew gradually away the gamblers followed , and kept at his elbow . 
'His level head will be his sufficient protection , I said to myself . 
During the fortnight's run from Acapulco to San Francisco I several times saw the gamblers talking earnestly with Backus , and once I threw out a gentle warning to him . 
By and bye , in due course , we were approaching San Francisco . 
It was an ugly black night , with a strong wind blowing , but there was not much sea . 
I was on deck , alone . 
Toward ten I started below . 
A figure issued from the gamblers' den , and disappeared in the darkness . 
I experienced a shock , for I was sure it was Backus . 
Had he yielded at last ? I feared it . 
What had he gone below for ? His bag of coin ? Possibly . 
I drew near the door , full of bodings . 
Worse still , he was being plied with champagne , and was already showing some effect from it . 
I could not bear the scene , so I wandered forward and tried to interest myself in the sea and the voices of the wind . 
But no , my uneasy spirit kept dragging me back at quarter hour intervals and always I saw Backus drinking his wine fairly and squarely , and the others throwing theirs away . 
It was the painfullest night I ever spent . 
The only hope I had was that we might reach our anchorage with speed that would break up the game . 
I helped the ship along all I could with my prayers . 
At last we went booming through the Golden Gate , and my pulses leaped for joy . 
I hurried back to that door and glanced in . 
He drained another glass to the dregs , whilst the cards were being dealt . 
He took his hand , glanced at it , and his dull eyes lit up for a moment . 
The gamblers observed it , and showed their gratification by hardly perceptible signs . 
'How many cards ? 'None ! said Backus . 
One villain named Hank Wiley discarded one card , the others three each . 
Heretofore the bets had been trifling a dollar or two but Backus started off with an eagle now , Wiley hesitated a moment , then 'saw it' and 'went ten dollars better . 
The other two threw up their hands . 
Wiley said 'I see that , and go you a hundred better ! then smiled and reached for the money . 
'Let it alone , said Backus , with drunken gravity . 
'What ! you mean to say you're going to cover it ? 'Cover it ? Well , I reckon I am and lay another hundred on top of it , too . 
He reached down inside his overcoat and produced the required sum . 
'Oh , that's your little game , is it ? I see your raise , and raise it five hundred ! said Wiley . 
said the foolish bull driver , and pulled out the amount and showered it on the pile . 
The three conspirators hardly tried to conceal their exultation . 
All diplomacy and pretense were dropped now , and the sharp exclamations came thick and fast , and the yellow pyramid grew higher and higher . 
At last ten thousand dollars lay in view . 
'What have you got ? 'Four kings , you d d fool ! and Wiley threw down his cards and surrounded the stakes with his arms . 
'Four ACES , you ass ! thundered Backus , covering his man with a cocked revolver . 
'I'M A PROFESSIONAL GAMBLER MYSELF , AND I'VE BEEN LAYING FOR YOU DUFFERS ALL THIS VOYAGE ! Down went the anchor , rumbledy dum dum ! and the long trip was ended . 
Well well , it is a sad world . 
One of the three gamblers was Backus's 'pal . 
It was he that dealt the fateful hands . 
According to an understanding with the two victims , he was to have given Backus four queens , but alas , he didn't . 
A week later , I stumbled upon Backus arrayed in the height of fashion in Montgomery Street . 
He said , cheerily , as we were parting 'Ah , by the way , you needn't mind about those gores . 
I don't really know anything about cattle , except what I was able to pick up in a week's apprenticeship over in Jersey just before we sailed . 
My cattle culture and cattle enthusiasm have served their turn I shan't need them any more . 
Next day we reluctantly parted from the 'Gold Dust' and her officers , hoping to see that boat and all those officers again , some day . 
SEVENTEEN PERSONS KILLED BY AN EXPLOSION ON THE STEAMER 'GOLD DUST . 
A despatch from Hickman , Ky . 
, says 'The steamer Gold Dust exploded her boilers at three o'clock to day , just after leaving Hickman . 
Forty seven persons were scalded and seventeen are missing . 
Twenty four of the injured were lying in Holcomb's dry goods store at one time , where they received every attention before being removed to more comfortable places . 
In answer to a private telegram , we learned that none of these was severely hurt , except Mr. Gray . 
Letters received afterward confirmed this news , and said that Mr. Gray was improving and would get well . 
Later letters spoke less hopefully of his case and finally came one announcing his death . 
A good man , a most companionable and manly man , and worthy of a kindlier fate . 
Mr. Dickens's position was unassailable , possibly the people's position was certainly unassailable . 
The people were as right as was Mr. Dickens . 
The steamboats were finer than anything on shore . 
Compared with superior dwelling houses and first class hotels in the Valley , they were indubitably magnificent , they were 'palaces . 
To a few people living in New Orleans and St . 
Louis , they were not magnificent , perhaps not palaces but to the great majority of those populations , and to the entire populations spread over both banks between Baton Rouge and St . 
Louis , they were palaces they tallied with the citizen's dream of what magnificence was , and satisfied it . 
Every town and village along that vast stretch of double river frontage had a best dwelling , finest dwelling , mansion , the home of its wealthiest and most conspicuous citizen . 
, with pipe passing through a board which closes up the discarded good old fireplace . 
Tilted pensively against the piano , a guitar guitar capable of playing the Spanish Fandango by itself , if you give it a start . 
Lithograph , Napoleon Crossing the Alps . 
Lithograph , The Grave at St . 
Steel plates , Trumbull's Battle of Bunker Hill , and the Sally from Gibraltar . 
Copper plates , Moses Smiting the Rock , and Return of the Prodigal Son . 
These persons all fresh , raw , and red apparently skinned . 
Under a glass French clock dome , large bouquet of stiff flowers done in corpsy white wax . 
These two are memorials of the long ago bridal trip to New Orleans and the French Market . 
Pity , too for she might have repented of this in time . 
Horse hair chairs , horse hair sofa which keeps sliding from under you . 
Window shades , of oil stuff , with milk maids and ruined castles stenciled on them in fierce colors . 
Lambrequins dependent from gaudy boxings of beaten tin , gilded . 
Nothing else in the room . 
Not a bathroom in the house and no visitor likely to come along who has ever seen one . 
That was the residence of the principal citizen , all the way from the suburbs of New Orleans to the edge of St . 
Take the steamboat which I have just described , and you have her in her highest and finest , and most pleasing , and comfortable , and satisfactory estate . 
Now cake her over with a layer of ancient and obdurate dirt , and you have the Cincinnati steamer awhile ago referred to . 
Not all over only inside for she was ably officered in all departments except the steward's . 
It is a change which threw Vicksburg's neighbor , Delta , Louisiana , out into the country and ended its career as a river town . 
But Natchez on top of the hill is attractive has always been attractive . 
had to confess its charms 'At one or two points the wearisome level line is relieved by bluffs , as they call the short intervals of high ground . 
The town of Natchez is beautifully situated on one of those high spots . 
Natchez is the furthest point to the north at which oranges ripen in the open air , or endure the winter without shelter . 
With the exception of this sweet spot , I thought all the little towns and villages we passed wretched looking in the extreme . 
And like Vicksburg and New Orleans , she has her ice factory she makes thirty tons of ice a day . 
In Vicksburg and Natchez , in my time , ice was jewelry none but the rich could wear it . 
But anybody and everybody can have it now . 
I visited one of the ice factories in New Orleans , to see what the polar regions might look like when lugged into the edge of the tropics . 
But there was nothing striking in the aspect of the place . 
It was merely a spacious house , with some innocent steam machinery in one end of it and some big porcelain pipes running here and there . 
It ought to have melted for one did not require winter clothing in that atmosphere but it did not melt the inside of the pipe was too cold . 
Sunk into the floor were numberless tin boxes , a foot square and two feet long , and open at the top end . 
While the water in the boxes gradually froze , men gave it a stir or two with a stick occasionally to liberate the air bubbles , I think . 
Other men were continually lifting out boxes whose contents had become hard frozen . 
These big blocks were hard , solid , and crystal clear . 
In certain of them , big bouquets of fresh and brilliant tropical flowers had been frozen in in others , beautiful silken clad French dolls , and other pretty objects . 
The Rosalie Yarn Mill , of Natchez , has a capacity of , spindles and looms , and employs hands . 
The Natchez Cotton Mills Company began operations four years ago in a two story building of x feet , with , spindles and looms capital , , all subscribed in the town . 
The company now employ operatives , many of whom are citizens of Natchez . 
'The mill works , bales of cotton annually and manufactures the best standard quality of brown shirtings and sheetings and drills , turning out , , yards of these goods per year . 
footnote New Orleans Times Democrat , Aug , . 
A close corporation stock held at , per share , but none in the market . 
Speaking of manufactures reminds me of a talk upon that topic which I heard which I overheard on board the Cincinnati boat . 
I awoke out of a fretted sleep , with a dull confusion of voices in my ears . 
I listened two men were talking subject , apparently , the great inundation . 
I looked out through the open transom . 
The two men were eating a late breakfast sitting opposite each other nobody else around . 
They closed up the inundation with a few words having used it , evidently , as a mere ice breaker and acquaintanceship breeder then they dropped into business . 
It soon transpired that they were drummers one belonging in Cincinnati , the other in New Orleans . 
Brisk men , energetic of movement and speech the dollar their god , how to get it their religion . 
Put any test on it you want to . 
Take your own time no hurry make it thorough . 
There now what do you say ? butter , ain't it . 
Not by a thundering sight it's oleomargarine ! Yes , sir , that's what it is oleomargarine . 
You can't tell it from butter by George , an EXPERT can't . 
We supply most of the boats in the West there's hardly a pound of butter on one of them . 
We are crawling right along JUMPING right along is the word . 
We are going to have that entire trade . 
Yes , and the hotel trade , too . 
Why , we are turning out oleomargarine NOW by the thousands of tons . 
And we can sell it so dirt cheap that the whole country has GOT to take it can't get around it you see . 
Butter don't stand any show there ain't any chance for competition . 
Butter's had its DAY and from this out , butter goes to the wall . 
There's more money in oleomargarine than why , you can't imagine the business we do . 
I've stopped in every town from Cincinnati to Natchez and I've sent home big orders from every one of them . 
And so forth and so on , for ten minutes longer , in the same fervid strain . 
Then New Orleans piped up and said Yes , it's a first rate imitation , that's a certainty but it ain't the only one around that's first rate . 
For instance , they make olive oil out of cotton seed oil , nowadays , so that you can't tell them apart . 
'Yes , that's so , responded Cincinnati , 'and it was a tip top business for a while . 
Cracked on such a rattling impost that cotton seed olive oil couldn't stand the raise had to hang up and quit . 
'Oh , it DID , did it ? You wait here a minute . 
One of 'm's from Europe , the other's never been out of this country . 
One's European olive oil , the other's American cotton seed olive oil . 
Tell 'm apart ? 'Course you can't . 
People that want to , can go to the expense and trouble of shipping their oils to Europe and back it's their privilege but our firm knows a trick worth six of that . 
We turn out the whole thing clean from the word go in our factory in New Orleans labels , bottles , oil , everything . 
Well , no , not labels been buying them abroad get them dirt cheap there . 
Well , we know how to get that one little particle out and we're the only firm that does . 
Maybe you'll butter everybody's bread pretty soon , but we'll cotton seed his salad for him from the Gulf to Canada , and that's a dead certain thing . 
Cincinnati glowed and flashed with admiration . 
The two scoundrels exchanged business cards , and rose . 
As they left the table , Cincinnati said 'But you have to have custom house marks , don't you ? How do you manage that ? I did not catch the answer . 
Chapter O Castles and Culture BATON ROUGE was clothed in flowers , like a bride no , much more so like a greenhouse . 
For we were in the absolute South now no modifications , no compromises , no half way measures . 
The magnolia trees in the Capitol grounds were lovely and fragrant , with their dense rich foliage and huge snow ball blossoms . 
The scent of the flower is very sweet , but you want distance on it , because it is so powerful . 
They are not good bedroom blossoms they might suffocate one in his sleep . 
And there was a tropical sun overhead and a tropical swelter in the air . 
The South has not yet recovered from the debilitating influence of his books . 
Baton Rouge has no patent on imitation castles , however , and no monopoly of them . 
Here is a picture from the advertisement of the 'Female Institute' of Columbia Tennessee . 
The following remark is from the same advertisement 'The Institute building has long been famed as a model of striking and beautiful architecture . 
Visitors are charmed with its resemblance to the old castles of song and story , with its towers , turreted walls , and ivy mantled porches . 
Keeping school in a castle is a romantic thing as romantic as keeping hotel in a castle . 
Here is an extract from the prospectus of a Kentucky 'Female College . 
Illustrations of it thoughtlessly omitted by the advertiser KNOXVILLE , Tenn . 
This morning a few minutes after ten o'clock , General Joseph A. Mabry , Thomas O'Connor , and Joseph A. Mabry , Jr . 
, were killed in a shooting affray . 
The difficulty began yesterday afternoon by General Mabry attacking Major O'Connor and threatening to kill him . 
This was at the fair grounds , and O'Connor told Mabry that it was not the place to settle their difficulties . 
Mabry then told O'Connor he should not live . 
It seems that Mabry was armed and O'Connor was not . 
The cause of the difficulty was an old feud about the transfer of some property from Mabry to O'Connor . 
Later in the afternoon Mabry sent word to O'Connor that he would kill him on sight . 
This morning Major O'Connor was standing in the door of the Mechanics' National Bank , of which he was president . 
General Mabry and another gentleman walked down Gay Street on the opposite side from the bank . 
O'Connor stepped into the bank , got a shot gun , took deliberate aim at General Mabry and fired . 
Mabry fell dead , being shot in the left side . 
As he fell O'Connor fired again , the shot taking effect in Mabry's thigh . 
O'Connor then reached into the bank and got another shot gun . 
About this time Joseph A. Mabry , Jr . 
The instant Mabry shot , O'Connor turned and fired , the load taking effect in young Mabry's right breast and side . 
Mabry fell pierced with twenty buckshot , and almost instantly O'Connor fell dead without a struggle . 
Mabry tried to rise , but fell back dead . 
The whole tragedy occurred within two minutes , and neither of the three spoke after he was shot . 
General Mabry had about thirty buckshot in his body . 
A bystander was painfully wounded in the thigh with a buckshot , and another was wounded in the arm . 
Four other men had their clothing pierced by buckshot . 
The affair caused great excitement , and Gay Street was thronged with thousands of people . 
Will Mabry was killed by Don Lusby last Christmas . 
Major Thomas O'Connor was President of the Mechanics' National Bank here , and was the wealthiest man in the State . 
One day last month , Professor Sharpe , of the Somerville , Tenn . 
, Female College , 'a quiet and gentlemanly man , was told that his brother in law , a Captain Burton , had threatened to kill him . 
Burton , t seems , had already killed one man and driven his knife into another . 
About the same time , two young men in North Carolina quarreled about a girl , and 'hostile messages' were exchanged . 
Friends tried to reconcile them , but had their labor for their pains . 
On the th the young men met in the public highway . 
One of them had a heavy club in his hand , the other an ax . 
The man with the club fought desperately for his life , but it was a hopeless fight from the first . 
A well directed blow sent his club whirling out of his grasp , and the next moment he was a dead man . 
About the same time , two 'highly connected' young Virginians , clerks in a hardware store at Charlottesville , while 'skylarking , came to blows . 
If Dick has been arrested , the news has not reached us . 
He 'expressed deep regret , and we are told by a Staunton correspondent of the PHILADELPHIA PRESS that 'every effort has been made to hush the matter up . 
EXTRACTS FROM THE PUBLIC JOURNALS . 
What , warder , ho ! the man that can blow so complacent a blast as that , probably blows it from a castle . 
A most home like and happy looking region . 
And now and then you see a pillared and porticoed great manor house , embowered in trees . 
Here is testimony of one or two of the procession of foreign tourists that filed along here half a century ago . 
All the procession paint the attractive picture in the same way . 
It is the blight of the war . 
Twenty one years ago everything was trim and trig and bright along the 'coast , just as it had been in , as described by those tourists . 
Unfortunate tourists ! People humbugged them with stupid and silly lies , and then laughed at them for believing and printing the same . 
The woman , by herself , would have satisfied any ordinarily impossible alligator but no , these liars must make him gorge the five children besides . 
One would not imagine that jokers of this robust breed would be sensitive but they were . 
Mrs. Trollope's account of it may perhaps entertain the reader therefore I have put it in the Appendix . 
footnote See Appendix C. Chapter The Metropolis of the South THE approaches to New Orleans were familiar general aspects were unchanged . 
There is nothing but that frail breastwork of earth between the people and destruction . 
The city itself had not changed to the eye . 
It had greatly increased in spread and population , but the look of the town was not altered . 
Not that there is any 'architecture' in Canal Street to speak in broad , general terms , there is no architecture in New Orleans , except in the cemeteries . 
It seems a strange thing to say of a wealthy , far seeing , and energetic city of a quarter of a million inhabitants , but it is true . 
There is a huge granite U. S. Custom house costly enough , genuine enough , but as a decoration it is inferior to a gasometer . 
It looks like a state prison . 
But it was built before the war . 
Architecture in America may be said to have been born since the war . 
New Orleans , I believe , has had the good luck and in a sense the bad luck to have had no great fire in late years . 
If the opposite had been the case , I think one would be able to tell the 'burnt district' by the radical improvement in its architecture over the old forms . 
One can do this in Boston and Chicago . 
However , New Orleans has begun just this moment , as one may say . 
When completed , the new Cotton Exchange will be a stately and beautiful building massive , substantial , full of architectural graces no shams or false pretenses or uglinesses about it anywhere . 
To the city , it will be worth many times its cost , for it will breed its species . 
What has been lacking hitherto , was a model to build toward something to educate eye and taste a SUGGESTER , so to speak . 
The city is well outfitted with progressive men thinking , sagacious , long headed men . 
The contrast between the spirit of the city and the city's architecture is like the contrast between waking and sleep . 
Apparently there is a 'boom' in everything but that one dead feature . 
one of the healthiest cities in the Union . 
There's plenty of ice now for everybody , manufactured in the town . 
It is a driving place commercially , and has a great river , ocean , and railway business . 
At the date of our visit , it was the best lighted city in the Union , electrically speaking . 
The New Orleans electric lights were more numerous than those of New York , and very much better . 
One had this modified noonday not only in Canal and some neighboring chief streets , but all along a stretch of five miles of river frontage . 
There are good clubs in the city now several of them but recently organized and inviting modern style pleasure resorts at West End and Spanish Fort . 
One of the most notable advances is in journalism . 
The newspapers , as I remember them , were not a striking feature . 
Money is spent upon them with a free hand . 
They get the news , let it cost what it may . 
The editorial work is not hack grinding , but literature . 
That is to say , not much short of three times as many words as there are in this book . 
One may with sorrow contrast this with the architecture of New Orleans . 
I have been speaking of public architecture only . 
The domestic article in New Orleans is reproachless , notwithstanding it remains as it always was . 
All the dwellings are of wood in the American part of the town , I mean and all have a comfortable look . 
Those in the wealthy quarter are spacious painted snow white usually , and generally have wide verandas , or double verandas , supported by ornamental columns . 
These mansions stand in the center of large grounds , and rise , garlanded with roses , out of the midst of swelling masses of shining green foliage and many colored blossoms . 
No houses could well be in better harmony with their surroundings , or more pleasing to the eye , or more home like and comfortable looking . 
There is a mansion and brewery suggestion about the combination which seems very incongruous at first . 
But the people cannot have wells , and so they take rain water . 
The graves are but three or four feet deep . 
the town being built upon 'made' ground so they do without both , and few of the living complain , and none of the others . 
Chapter Hygiene and Sentiment THEY bury their dead in vaults , above the ground . 
Many of the cemeteries are beautiful , and are kept in perfect order . 
On sunny days , pretty little chameleons gracefullest of legged reptiles creep along the marble fronts of the vaults , and catch flies . 
Their changes of color as to variety are not up to the creature's reputation . 
They change color when a person comes along and hangs up an immortelle but that is nothing any right feeling reptile would do that . 
I will gradually drop this subject of graveyards . 
I have been trying all I could to get down to the sentimental part of it , but I cannot accomplish it . 
I think there is no genuinely sentimental part to it . 
It is all grotesque , ghastly , horrible . 
It is a grim sort of a thought . 
Anne , up in Canada , have now , after nineteen hundred years , gone to curing the sick by the dozen . 
But it is merest matter of course that these same relics , within a generation after St . 
Anne's death and burial , MADE several thousand people sick . 
Therefore these miracle performances are simply compensation , nothing more . 
Where you find one that pays like St . 
Anne you find a hundred and fifty that take the benefit of the statute . 
And none of them pay any more than the principal of what they owe they pay none of the interest either simple or compound . 
A Saint can never QUITE return the principal , however for his dead body KILLS people , whereas his relics HEAL only they never restore the dead to life . 
That part of the account is always left unsettled . 
will rise to the surface through eight or ten feet of gravel , just as coal gas will do , and there is practically no limit to their power of escape . 
'During the epidemic in New Orleans in , Dr . 
E. H. Barton reported that in the Fourth District the mortality was four hundred and fifty two per thousand more than double that of any other . 
In this district were three large cemeteries , in which during the previous year more than three thousand bodies had been buried . 
In other districts the proximity of cemeteries seemed to aggravate the disease . 
Mr. Cooper , in explaining the causes of some epidemics , remarks that the opening of the plague burial grounds at Eyam resulted in an immediate outbreak of disease . 
NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW , NO . 
In an address before the Chicago Medical Society , in advocacy of cremation , Dr . 
so cheap until the poor got to imitating the rich , which they would do by and bye . 
I have a colored acquaintance who earns his living by odd jobs and heavy manual labor . 
To such a man a funeral is a colossal financial disaster . 
While I was writing one of the preceding chapters , this man lost a little child . 
He walked the town over with a friend , trying to find a coffin that was within his means . 
He bought the very cheapest one he could find , plain wood , stained . 
It cost him twenty six dollars . 
It would have cost less than four , probably , if it had been built to put something useful into . 
He and his family will feel that outlay a good many months . 
I said 'But you used to look sad and oldish you don't now . 
Where did you get all this youth and bubbling cheerfulness ? Give me the address . 
Big fire , all right brisk trade for ten days while people scared after that , dull policy business till next fire . 
Town like this don't have fires often enough a fellow strikes so many dull weeks in a row that he gets discouraged . 
But you bet you , this is the business ! People don't wait for examples to die . 
No , sir , they drop off right along there ain't any dull spots in the undertaker line . 
Five years ago , lodged in an attic live in a swell house now , with a mansard roof , and all the modern inconveniences . 
'Does a coffin pay so well . 
There's one thing in this world which a person don't ever try to jew you down on . 
There's one thing in this world which a person don't say I'll look around a little , and if I find I can't do better I'll come back and take it . 
And there's one thing in this world which you don't have to worry around after a person to get him to pay for . 
Undertaking ? why it's the dead surest business in Christendom , and the nobbiest . 
'Why , just look at it . 
A rich man won't have anything but your very best and you can just pile it on , too pile it on and sock it to him he won't ever holler . 
And you take in a poor man , and if you work him right he'll bust himself on a single lay out . 
F'r instance Mrs. O'Flaherty comes in widow wiping her eyes and kind of moaning . 
I'll have that wan , sor . 
And of course she sails in and goes the O'Shaughnessy about four hacks and an omnibus better . 
That used to be , but that's all played now that is , in this particular town . 
He don't allow them to have but two hacks now , and sometimes only one . 
'Well , said I , 'if you are so light hearted and jolly in ordinary times , what must you be in an epidemic ? He shook his head . 
'No , you're off , there . 
We don't like to see an epidemic . 
Well , of course I don't mean that , exactly but it don't pay in proportion to the regular thing . 
Don't it occur to you , why ? No. 'Think . 
What is it ? 'It's just two things . 
'Well , what are they ? 'One's Embamming . 
'And what's the other ? 'Ice . 
Takes a lot of it melts fast . 
We charge jewelry rates for that ice , and war prices for attendance . 
Well , don't you know , when there's an epidemic , they rush 'em to the cemetery the minute the breath's out . 
No market for ice in an epidemic . 
You take a family that's able to embam , and you've got a soft thing . 
It's human nature human nature in grief . 
It don't reason , you see . 
Time being , it don't care a dam . 
All it wants is physical immortality for deceased , and they're willing to pay for it . 
All you've got to do is to just be ca'm and stack it up they'll stand the racket . 
There ain't anything equal to it but trading rats for di'monds in time of famine . 
Well , don't you see , when there's an epidemic , people don't wait to embam . 
No , indeed they don't and it hurts the business like hell th , as we say hurts it like hell th , HEALTH , see ? Our little joke in the trade . 
Well , I must be going . 
Give me a call whenever you need any I mean , when you're going by , sometime . 
In his joyful high spirits , he did the exaggerating himself , if any has been done . 
I have not enlarged on him . 
With the above brief references to inhumation , let us leave the subject . 
As for me , I hope to be cremated . 
I made that remark to my pastor once , who said , with what he seemed to think was an impressive manner 'I wouldn't worry about that , if I had your chances . 
Much he knew about it the family all so opposed to it . 
Their chief beauty is the deep , warm , varicolored stain with which time and the weather have enriched the plaster . 
It harmonizes with all the surroundings , and has as natural a look of belonging there as has the flush upon sunset clouds . 
This charming decoration cannot be successfully imitated neither is it to be found elsewhere in America . 
The iron railings are a specialty , also . 
The ancient railings are hand made , and are now comparatively rare and proportionately valuable . 
They are become BRIC A BRAC . 
The party had the privilege of idling through this ancient quarter of New Orleans with the South's finest literary genius , the author of 'the Grandissimes . 
In him the South has found a masterly delineator of its interior life and its history . 
With Mr. Cable along to see for you , and describe and explain and illuminate , a jog through that old quarter is a vivid pleasure . 
We visited the old St . 
Louis Hotel , now occupied by municipal offices . 
The fact that the ushers grow their buttonhole bouquets on the premises shows what might be done if they had the right kind of an agricultural head to the establishment . 
When he died , they set up a monument over him and little by little he has come into respect again but it is respect for the pirate , not the alderman . 
To day the loyal and generous remember only what he was , and charitably forget what he became . 
We had dinner on a ground veranda over the water the chief dish the renowned fish called the pompano , delicious as the less criminal forms of sin . 
We had opportunities on other days and in other places to test the pompano . 
Notably , at an editorial dinner at one of the clubs in the city . 
He was in his last possible perfection there , and justified his fame . 
In his suite was a tall pyramid of scarlet cray fish large ones as large as one's thumb delicate , palatable , appetizing . 
Also deviled whitebait also shrimps of choice quality and a platter of small soft shell crabs of a most superior breed . 
The other dishes were what one might get at Delmonico's , or Buckingham Palace those I have spoken of can be had in similar perfection in New Orleans only , I suppose . 
In the West and South they have a new institution the Broom Brigade . 
It is composed of young ladies who dress in a uniform costume , and go through the infantry drill , with broom in place of musket . 
It is a very pretty sight , on private view . 
When they perform on the stage of a theater , in the blaze of colored fires , it must be a fine and fascinating spectacle . 
I saw them go through their complex manual with grace , spirit , and admirable precision . 
I saw them do everything which a human being can possibly do with a broom , except sweep . 
I did not see them sweep . 
But I know they could learn . 
What they have already learned proves that . 
But the girls themselves wouldn't so nothing would be really gained , after all . 
The drill was in the Washington Artillery building . 
In this building we saw many interesting relics of the war . 
Also a fine oil painting representing Stonewall Jackson's last interview with General Lee . 
Both men are on horseback . 
Jackson has just ridden up , and is accosting Lee . 
The picture is very valuable , on account of the portraits , which are authentic . 
But , like many another historical picture , it means nothing without its label . 
And one label will fit it as well as another First Interview between Lee and Jackson . 
Last Interview between Lee and Jackson . 
Jackson Introducing Himself to Lee . 
Jackson Accepting Lee's Invitation to Dinner . 
Jackson Declining Lee's Invitation to Dinner with Thanks . 
Jackson Apologizing for a Heavy Defeat . 
Jackson Reporting a Great Victory . 
Jackson Asking Lee for a Match . 
It tells ONE story , and a sufficient one for it says quite plainly and satisfactorily , 'Here are Lee and Jackson together . 
The artist would have made it tell that this is Lee and Jackson's last interview if he could have done it . 
But he couldn't , for there wasn't any way to do it . 
A good legible label is usually worth , for information , a ton of significant attitude and expression in a historical picture . 
In Rome , people with fine sympathetic natures stand up and weep in front of the celebrated 'Beatrice Cenci the Day before her Execution . 
It shows what a label can do . 
If they did not know the picture , they would inspect it unmoved , and say , 'Young girl with hay fever young girl with her head in a bag . 
I found the half forgotten Southern intonations and elisions as pleasing to my ear as they had formerly been . 
At least it is music to me , but then I was born in the South . 
The educated Southerner has no use for an r , except at the beginning of a word . 
He says 'honah , and 'dinnah , and 'Gove'nuh , and 'befo' the waw , and so on . 
The words may lack charm to the eye , in print , but they have it to the ear . 
When did the r disappear from Southern speech , and how did it come to disappear ? The custom of dropping it was not borrowed from the North , nor inherited from England . 
Many Southerners most Southerners put a y into occasional words that begin with the k sound . 
and speak of playing k'yahds or of riding in the k'yahs . 
And they have the pleasant custom long ago fallen into decay in the North of frequently employing the respectful 'Sir . 
Instead of the curt Yes , and the abrupt No , they say 'Yes , Suh' , 'No , Suh . 
But there are some infelicities . 
Such as 'like' for 'as , and the addition of an 'at' where it isn't needed . 
I heard an educated gentleman say , 'Like the flag officer did . 
His cook or his butler would have said , 'Like the flag officer done . 
The very elect carelessly say 'will' when they mean 'shall' and many of them say , 'I didn't go to do it , meaning 'I didn't mean to do it . 
The Northern word 'guess' imported from England , where it used to be common , and now regarded by satirical Englishmen as a Yankee original is but little used among Southerners . 
They haven't any 'doesn't' in their language they say 'don't' instead . 
The unpolished often use 'went' for 'gone . 
It is nearly as bad as the Northern 'hadn't ought . 
This reminds me that a remark of a very peculiar nature was made here in my neighborhood a few days ago 'He hadn't ought to have went . 
How is that ? Isn't that a good deal of a triumph ? One knows the orders combined in this half breed's architecture without inquiring one parent Northern , the other Southern . 
We picked up one excellent word a word worth traveling to New Orleans to get a nice limber , expressive , handy word 'lagniappe . 
They pronounce it lanny yap . 
It is Spanish so they said . 
It has a restricted meaning , but I think the people spread it out a little when they choose . 
It is the equivalent of the thirteenth roll in a 'baker's dozen . 
It is something thrown in , gratis , for good measure . 
The custom originated in the Spanish quarter of the city . 
There are sufficient reasons for this . 
Given a dinner company of six gentlemen to day , it can easily happen that four of them and possibly five were not in the field at all . 
The case is very different in the South . 
There , every man you meet was in the war and every lady you meet saw the war . 
The war is the great chief topic of conversation . 
The interest in it is vivid and constant the interest in other topics is fleeting . 
Mention of the war will wake up a dull company and set their tongues going , when nearly any other topic would fail . 
In the South , the war is what A. D. is elsewhere they date from it . 
It shows how intimately every individual was visited , in his own person , by that tremendous episode . 
It gives the inexperienced stranger a better idea of what a vast and comprehensive calamity invasion is than he can ever get by reading books at the fireside . 
At a club one evening , a gentleman turned to me and said , in an aside 'You notice , of course , that we are nearly always talking about the war . 
It isn't because we haven't anything else to talk about , but because nothing else has so strong an interest for us . 
Of course that brings the talk back to the war . 
The poet was sitting some little distance away and presently he began to speak about the moon . 
Reminds me of an anecdote . 
Everything is changed since the war , for better or for worse but you'll find people down here born grumblers , who see no change except the change for the worse . 
There was an old negro woman of this sort . 
But the poet resurrected it , and gave it a new start . 
A brief dispute followed , as to whether the difference between Northern and Southern moonlight really existed or was only imagined . 
Moonlight talk drifted easily into talk about artificial methods of dispelling darkness . 
At this point the war got the floor again the ten minutes not quite up yet . 
We went to a cockpit in New Orleans on a Saturday afternoon . 
I had never seen a cock fight before . 
There were men and boys there of all ages and all colors , and of many languages and nationalities . 
But I noticed one quite conspicuous and surprising absence the traditional brutal faces . 
There were no brutal faces . 
A negro and a white man were in the ring everybody else outside . 
The big black cock plunged instantly at the little gray one and struck him on the head with his spur . 
The gray responded with spirit . 
Then the Babel of many tongued shoutings broke out , and ceased not thenceforth . 
Yet they would not give up , neither would they die . 
I did not see the end of the battle . 
I forced myself to endure it as long as I could , but it was too pitiful a sight so I made frank confession to that effect , and we retired . 
We heard afterward that the black cock died in the ring , and fighting to the last . 
Evidently there is abundant fascination about this 'sport' for such as have had a degree of familiarity with it . 
I never saw people enjoy anything more than this gathering enjoyed this fight . 
The case was the same with old gray heads and with boys of ten . 
They lost themselves in frenzies of delight . 
We assisted in the French sense at a mule race , one day . 
I believe I enjoyed this contest more than any other mule there . 
I enjoyed it more than I remember having enjoyed any other animal race I ever saw . 
The grand stand was well filled with the beauty and the chivalry of New Orleans . 
That phrase is not original with me . 
It is the Southern reporter's . 
He has used it for two generations . 
He uses it twenty times a day , or twenty thousand times a day or a million times a day according to the exigencies . 
He never tires of it it always has a fine sound to him . 
There is a kind of swell medieval bulliness and tinsel about it that pleases his gaudy barbaric soul . 
If he had been in Palestine in the early times , we should have had no references to 'much people' out of him . 
No , he would have said 'the beauty and the chivalry of Galilee' assembled to hear the Sermon on the Mount . 
The New Orleans editor has a strong , compact , direct , unflowery style wastes no words , and does not gush . 
Not so with his average correspondent . 
In the Appendix I have quoted a good letter , penned by a trained hand but the average correspondent hurls a style which differs from that . 
For instance The 'Times Democrat' sent a relief steamer up one of the bayous , last April . 
This steamer landed at a village , up there somewhere , and the Captain invited some of the ladies of the village to make a short trip with him . 
They accepted and came aboard , and the steamboat shoved out up the creek . 
That was all there was 'to it . 
And that is all that the editor of the 'Times Democrat' would have got out of it . 
There was nothing in the thing but statistics , and he would have got nothing else out of it . 
He would probably have even tabulated them , partly to secure perfect clearness of statement , and partly to save space . 
But his special correspondent knows other methods of handling statistics . 
The trouble with the Southern reporter is Women . 
They unsettle him they throw him off his balance . 
He is plain , and sensible , and satisfactory , until a woman heaves in sight . 
Then he goes all to pieces his mind totters , he becomes flowery and idiotic . 
From reading the above extract , you would imagine that this student of Sir Walter Scott is an apprentice , and knows next to nothing about handling a pen . 
For instance 'At o'clock ominous clouds began to gather in the south east , and presently from the Gulf there came a blow which increased in severity every moment . 
It was not safe to leave the landing then , and there was a delay . 
A lull permitted a start , and homewards we steamed , an inky sky overhead and a heavy wind blowing . 
As darkness crept on , there were few on board who did not wish themselves nearer home . 
There is nothing the matter with that . 
It is good description , compactly put . 
Yet there was great temptation , there , to drop into lurid writing . 
But let us return to the mule . 
Since I left him , I have rummaged around and found a full report of the race . 
This is an excellent report , as long as the women stay out of it . 
But when they intrude , we have this frantic result 'It will be probably a long time before the ladies' stand presents such a sea of foam like loveliness as it did yesterday . 
The New Orleans women are always charming , but never so much so as at this time of the year , when . 
in their dainty spring costumes they bring with them a breath of balmy freshness and an odor of sanctity unspeakable . 
There were thirteen mules in the first heat all sorts of mules , they were all sorts of complexions , gaits , dispositions , aspects . 
And each mule acted according to his convictions . 
The result was an absence of harmony well compensated by a conspicuous presence of variety variety of a picturesque and entertaining sort . 
All the riders were young gentlemen in fashionable society . 
If the reader has been wondering why it is that the ladies of New Orleans attend so humble an orgy as a mule race , the thing is explained now . 
It is a fashion freak all connected with it are people of fashion . 
It is great fun , and cordially liked . 
The mule race is one of the marked occasions of the year . 
It has brought some pretty fast mules to the front . 
But every now and then somebody disguises him with a new name and a new complexion , and rings him in again . 
The riders dress in full jockey costumes of bright colored silks , satins , and velvets . 
The thirteen mules got away in a body , after a couple of false starts , and scampered off with prodigious spirit . 
Eight of the thirteen mules distanced . 
I had a bet on a mule which would have won if the procession had been reversed . 
The second heat was good fun and so was the 'consolation race for beaten mules , which followed later but the first heat was the best in that respect . 
I think that much the most enjoyable of all races is a steamboat race but , next to that , I prefer the gay and joyous mule rush . 
A horse race is pretty tame and colorless in comparison . 
Still , a horse race might be well enough , in its way , perhaps , if it were not for the tiresome false starts . 
But then , nobody is ever killed . 
At least , nobody was ever killed when I was at a horse race . 
They have been crippled , it is true but this is little to the purpose . 
Chapter Enchantments and Enchanters THE largest annual event in New Orleans is a something which we arrived too late to sample the Mardi Gras festivities . 
There is a chief personage 'Rex and if I remember rightly , neither this king nor any of his great following of subordinates is known to any outsider . 
Mardi Gras is of course a relic of the French and Spanish occupation but I judge that the religious feature has been pretty well knocked out of it now . 
Sir Walter has got the advantage of the gentlemen of the cowl and rosary , and he will stay . 
This Mardi Gras pageant was the exclusive possession of New Orleans until recently . 
But now it has spread to Memphis and St . 
It has probably reached its limit . 
It is a thing which could hardly exist in the practical North would certainly last but a very brief time as brief a time as it would last in London . 
For the soul of it is the romantic , not the funny and the grotesque . 
Take away the romantic mysteries , the kings and knights and big sounding titles , and Mardi Gras would die , down there in the South . 
The very feature that keeps it alive in the South girly girly romance would kill it in the North or in London . 
Puck and Punch , and the press universal , would fall upon it and make merciless fun of it , and its first exhibition would be also its last . 
He did measureless harm more real and lasting harm , perhaps , than any other individual that ever wrote . 
Most of the world has now outlived good part of these harms , though by no means all of them but in our South they flourish pretty forcefully still . 
Not so forcefully as half a generation ago , perhaps , but still forcefully . 
For it was he that created rank and caste down there , and also reverence for rank and caste , and pride and pleasure in them . 
Enough is laid on slavery , without fathering upon it these creations and contributions of Sir Walter . 
Sir Walter had so large a hand in making Southern character , as it existed before the war , that he is in great measure responsible for the war . 
The Southerner of the American Revolution owned slaves so did the Southerner of the Civil War but the former resembles the latter as an Englishman resembles a Frenchman . 
The change of character can be traced rather more easily to Sir Walter's influence than to that of any other thing or person . 
One may observe , by one or two signs , how deeply that influence penetrated , and how strongly it holds . 
But a change has come , and there is no opportunity now for a fair competition between North and South . 
Instead of three or four widely known literary names , the South ought to have a dozen or two and will have them when Sir Walter's time is out . 
A curious exemplification of the power of a single book for good or harm is shown in the effects wrought by 'Don Quixote' and those wrought by 'Ivanhoe . 
The first swept the world's admiration for the medieval chivalry silliness out of existence and the other restored it . 
As far as our South is concerned , the good work done by Cervantes is pretty nearly a dead letter , so effectually has Scott's pernicious work undermined it . 
Chapter Uncle Remus and Mr. Cable MR . 
was to arrive from Atlanta at seven o'clock Sunday morning so we got up and received him . 
We were able to detect him among the crowd of arrivals at the hotel counter by his correspondence with a description of him which had been furnished us from a trustworthy source . 
He was said to be undersized , red haired , and somewhat freckled . 
He was the only man in the party whose outside tallied with this bill of particulars . 
He was said to be very shy . 
He is a shy man . 
Of this there is no doubt . 
It may not show on the surface , but the shyness is there . 
After days of intimacy one wonders to see that it is still in about as strong force as ever . 
I seem to be talking quite freely about this neighbor but in talking to the public I am but talking to his personal friends , and these things are permissible among friends . 
He deeply disappointed a number of children who had flocked eagerly to Mr. Cable's house to get a glimpse of the illustrious sage and oracle of the nation's nurseries . 
They said 'Why , he 's white ! They were grieved about it . 
But it turned out that he had never read aloud to people , and was too shy to venture the attempt now . 
Mr. Harris ought to be able to read the negro dialect better than anybody else , for in the matter of writing it he is the only master the country has produced . 
Mr. Cable is the only master in the writing of French dialects that the country has produced and he reads them in perfection . 
Mr. Warner and I had an experience of the same sort when we wrote the book called 'The Gilded Age . 
There is a character in it called 'Sellers . 
I do not remember what his first name was , in the beginning but anyway , Mr. Warner did not like it , and wanted it improved . 
He asked me if I was able to imagine a person named 'Eschol Sellers . 
Of course I said I could not , without stimulants . 
He said that away out West , once , he had met , and contemplated , and actually shaken hands with a man bearing that impossible name 'Eschol Sellers . 
He added 'It was twenty years ago his name has probably carried him off before this and if it hasn't , he will never see the book anyhow . 
We will confiscate his name . 
copies of the book and change that name to 'Mulberry Sellers' in future editions . 
It is a curious thing , to leave a man thirty five years old , and come back at the end of twenty one years and find him still only thirty five . 
I have not had an experience of this kind before , I believe . 
There were some crow's feet , but they counted for next to nothing , since they were inconspicuous . 
His boat was just in . 
I had been waiting several days for her , purposing to return to St . 
Strung along below the city , were a number of decayed , ram shackly , superannuated old steamboats , not one of which had I ever seen before . 
They had all been built , and worn out , and thrown aside , since I was here last . 
This gives one a realizing sense of the frailness of a Mississippi boat and the briefness of its life . 
The war had ended , the two nations were at peace , but the news had not yet reached New Orleans . 
We have gotten over the harms done us by the war of , but not over some of those done us by Jackson's presidency . 
The Warmouth plantation covers a vast deal of ground , and the hospitality of the Warmouth mansion is graduated to the same large scale . 
We saw steam plows at work , here , for the first time . 
The thing cuts down into the black mold a foot and a half deep . 
The plow looks like a fore and aft brace of a Hudson river steamer , inverted . 
When the negro steersman sits on one end of it , that end tilts down near the ground , while the other sticks up high in air . 
This great see saw goes rolling and pitching like a ship at sea , and it is not every circus rider that could stay on it . 
The plantation contains two thousand six hundred acres six hundred and fifty are in cane and there is a fruitful orange grove of five thousand trees . 
The cane is cultivated after a modern and intricate scientific fashion , too elaborate and complex for me to attempt to describe but it lost , last year . 
I forget the other details . 
However , this year's crop will reach ten or twelve hundred tons of sugar , consequently last year's loss will not matter . 
The drainage ditches were everywhere alive with little crabs 'fiddlers . 
One saw them scampering sidewise in every direction whenever they heard a disturbing noise . 
Expensive pests , these crabs for they bore into the levees , and ruin them . 
The great sugar house was a wilderness of tubs and tanks and vats and filters , pumps , pipes , and machinery . 
The process of making sugar is exceedingly interesting . 
It is now ready for market . 
I have jotted these particulars down from memory . 
The thing looks simple and easy . 
To make sugar is really one of the most difficult things in the world . 
And to make it right , is next to impossible . 
We could have done a number of other things but on account of limited time , we went back home . 
He applied it to every sentimental remark , and to every pathetic song . 
He cackled it out with hideous energy after 'Home again , home again from a foreign shore , and said he 'wouldn't give a damn for a tug load of such rot . 
Romance and sentiment cannot long survive this sort of discouragement so the singing and talking presently ceased which so delighted the parrot that he cursed himself hoarse for joy . 
Then the male members of the party moved to the forecastle , to smoke and gossip . 
There were several old steamboatmen along , and I learned from them a great deal of what had been happening to my former river friends during my long absence . 
I remember Mr. Manchester very well . 
I called on him once , ten years ago , with a couple of friends , one of whom wished to inquire after a deceased uncle . 
He did not survive this triumph . 
If this man is not the paltriest fraud that lives , I owe him an apology QUESTION . 
Where are you ? ANSWER . 
Q. Are you happy ? A. Very happy . 
Q. How do you amuse yourself ? A. Conversation with friends , and other spirits . 
Q. What else ? A. Nothing else . 
Q. What do you talk about ? A. About how happy we are and about friends left behind in the earth , and how to influence them for their good . 
It is explained that spirits will not answer frivolous questions . 
Q. Would you like to come back ? A. No. Q. Would you say that under oath ? A. Yes . 
Q. What do you eat there ? A. We do not eat . 
Q. What do you drink ? A. We do not drink . 
Q. What do you smoke ? A. We do not smoke . 
Q. What do you read ? A. We do not read . 
Q. Do all the good people go to your place ? A. Yes . 
Q. You know my present way of life . 
Can you suggest any additions to it , in the way of crime , that will reasonably insure my going to some other place . 
Q. When did you die ? A. I did not die , I passed away . 
Q. Very well , then , when did you pass away ? How long have you been in the spirit land ? A. We have no measurements of time here . 
Q. Though you may be indifferent and uncertain as to dates and times in your present condition and environment , this has nothing to do with your former condition . 
One of these is what I ask for . 
You departed on a certain day in a certain year . 
Is not this true ? A. Yes . 
Q. Then name the day of the month . 
Q. Then this one has actually forgotten the date of its translation to the spirit land ? This was granted to be the case . 
Q. This is very curious . 
Q. This is indeed stupendous . 
This man had plenty of clients has plenty yet . 
He receives letters from spirits located in every part of the spirit world , and delivers them all over this country through the United States mail . 
These letters are filled with advice advice from 'spirits' who don't know as much as a tadpole and this advice is religiously followed by the receivers . 
were teaching how to contrive an improved railway car wheel . 
It is coarse employment for a spirit , but it is higher and wholesomer activity than talking for ever about 'how happy we are . 
Doubtless they chose farming because that life is private and secluded from irruptions of undesirable strangers like the pilot house hermitage . 
But I did not learn that any of these pilot farmers had astonished anybody with their successes . 
Their farms do not support them they support their farms . 
The pilot farmer disappears from the river annually , about the breaking of spring , and is seen no more till next frost . 
Then he appears again , in damaged homespun , combs the hayseed out of his hair , and takes a pilot house berth for the winter . 
In this way he pays the debts which his farming has achieved during the agricultural season . 
So his river bondage is but half broken he is still the river's slave the hardest half of the year . 
One of these men bought a farm , but did not retire to it . 
He knew a trick worth two of that . 
He did not propose to pauperize his farm by applying his personal ignorance to working it . 
But at the end of the season the pilot received no corn . 
The expert explained that his share was not reached . 
The farm produced only two loads . 
Some of the pilots whom I had known had had adventures the outcome fortunate , sometimes , but not in all cases . 
He was always a cool man nothing could disturb his serenity . 
Once when he was captain of the 'Crescent City , I was bringing the boat into port at New Orleans , and momently expecting orders from the hurricane deck , but received none . 
I had stopped the wheels , and there my authority and responsibility ceased . 
The captain was very strict therefore I knew better than to touch a bell without orders . 
My duty was to hold the boat steadily on her calamitous course , and leave the consequences to take care of themselves which I did . 
Things were becoming exceedingly nervous and uncomfortable . 
It seemed to me that the captain was not going to appear in time to see the entertainment . 
One of the pilots whom I had known when I was on the river had died a very honorable death . 
His boat caught fire , and he remained at the wheel until he got her safe to land . 
Then he went out over the breast board with his clothing in flames , and was the last person to get ashore . 
He died from his injuries in the course of two or three hours , and his was the only life lost . 
It is well worth while to set down this noble fact , and well worth while to put it in italics , too . 
And so effectively are these admonitions inculcated , that even young and but half tried pilots can be depended upon to stick to the wheel , and die there when occasion requires . 
In a Memphis graveyard is buried a young fellow who perished at the wheel a great many years ago , in White River , to save the lives of other men . 
He reached the bar and grounded the boat in shallow water but by that time the flames had closed around him , and in escaping through them he was fatally burned . 
He had been urged to fly sooner , but had replied as became a pilot to reply 'I will not go . 
If I go , nobody will be saved if I stay , no one will be lost but me . 
There were two hundred persons on board , and no life was lost but the pilot's . 
There used to be a monument to this young fellow , in that Memphis graveyard . 
A heedless , reckless creature he was , and always in hot water , always in mischief . 
An Arkansas passenger brought an enormous bear aboard , one day , and chained him to a life boat on the hurricane deck . 
Thornburgh's 'cub' could not rest till he had gone there and unchained the bear , to 'see what he would do . 
The off watch turned out with alacrity , and left the bear in sole possession . 
He presently grew lonesome , and started out for recreation . 
I was told that one of my pilot friends fell dead at the wheel , from heart disease , in . 
The captain was on the roof at the time . 
He saw the boat breaking for the shore shouted , and got no answer ran up , and found the pilot lying dead on the floor . 
Mr. Bixby had been blown up , in Madrid bend was not injured , but the other pilot was lost . 
George Ritchie had been blown up near Memphis blown into the river from the wheel , and disabled . 
They tore open the bale and packed him in the cotton , and warmed the life back into him , and got him safe to Memphis . 
He is one of Bixby's pilots on the 'Baton Rouge' now . 
Into the life of a steamboat clerk , now dead , had dropped a bit of romance somewhat grotesque romance , but romance nevertheless . 
In a Western city lived a rich and childless old foreigner and his wife and in their family was a comely young girl sort of friend , sort of servant . 
Being ashamed , they lied , and said they were married that they had been privately married . 
Then the old foreigner's hurt was healed , and he forgave and blessed them . 
After that , they were able to continue their sin without concealment . 
By and bye the foreigner's wife died and presently he followed after her . 
Friends of the family assembled to mourn and among the mourners sat the two young sinners . 
The will was opened and solemnly read . 
It bequeathed every penny of that old man's great wealth to MRS . 
GEORGE JOHNSON ! And there was no such person . 
The young sinners fled forth then , and did a very foolish thing married themselves before an obscure Justice of the Peace , and got him to antedate the thing . 
That did no sort of good . 
Such are the actual facts and not all novels have for a base so telling a situation . 
Chapter The 'Original Jacobs' WE had some talk about Captain Isaiah Sellers , now many years dead . 
He was a fine man , a high minded man , and greatly respected both ashore and on the river . 
Consequently his brethren held him in the sort of awe in which illustrious survivors of a bygone age are always held by their associates . 
He knew how he was regarded , and perhaps this fact added some trifle of stiffening to his natural dignity , which had been sufficiently stiff in its original state . 
At the time of his death a correspondent of the 'St . 
Louis Republican' culled the following items from the diary 'In February , , he shipped on board the steamer Rambler , at Florence , Ala . 
, and made during that year three trips to New Orleans and back this on the Gen . 
Carrol , between Nashville and New Orleans . 
The proximity of the forecastle to the pilot house , no doubt , rendered this an easy matter but how different on one of our palaces of the present day . 
'In we find him on board the President , a boat of two hundred and eighty five tons burden , and plying between Smithland and New Orleans . 
Thence he joined the Jubilee in , and on this boat he did his first piloting in the St . 
Louis trade his first watch extending from Herculaneum to St . 
'As general items of river history , we quote the following marginal notes from his general log 'In March , , Gen . 
Lafayette left New Orleans for St . 
Louis on the low pressure steamer Natchez . 
'In January , , twenty one steamers left the New Orleans wharf to celebrate the occasion of Gen . 
Jackson's visit to that city . 
'In the North American made the run from New Orleans to Memphis in six days best time on record to that date . 
It has since been made in two days and ten hours . 
'In the Red River cut off formed . 
'In steamer Hudson made the run from White River to Helena , a distance of seventy five miles , in twelve hours . 
This was the source of much talk and speculation among parties directly interested . 
'In Great Horseshoe cut off formed . 
Whenever Captain Sellers approached a body of gossiping pilots , a chill fell there , and talking ceased . 
Imagine the size of the silence that would result on the instant . 
They related to the stage and condition of the river , and were accurate and valuable and thus far , they contained no poison . 
In these antique interjections lay poison and bitterness for the other old pilots , and they used to chaff the 'Mark Twain' paragraphs with unsparing mockery . 
It so chanced that one of these paragraphs footnote The original MS . 
of it , in the captain's own hand , has been sent to me from New Orleans . 
It reads as follows VICKSBURG May , . 
'My opinion for the benefit of the citizens of New Orleans The water is higher this far up than it has been since . 
My opinion is that the water will be feet deep in Canal street before the first of next June . 
Mrs. Turner's plantation at the head of Big Black Island is all under water , and it has not been since . 
became the text for my first newspaper article . 
I burlesqued it broadly , very broadly , stringing my fantastics out to the extent of eight hundred or a thousand words . 
I was a 'cub' at the time . 
I showed my performance to some pilots , and they eagerly rushed it into print in the 'New Orleans True Delta . 
It was a great pity for it did nobody any worthy service , and it sent a pang deep into a good man's heart . 
There was no malice in my rubbish but it laughed at the captain . 
It laughed at a man to whom such a thing was new and strange and dreadful . 
Captain Sellers did me the honor to profoundly detest me from that day forth . 
When I say he did me the honor , I am not using empty words . 
It was a very real honor to be in the thoughts of so great a man as Captain Sellers , and I had wit enough to appreciate it and be proud of it . 
He never printed another paragraph while he lived , and he never again signed 'Mark Twain' to anything . 
At the time that the telegraph brought the news of his death , I was on the Pacific coast . 
The captain had an honorable pride in his profession and an abiding love for it . 
He ordered his monument before he died , and kept it near him until he did die . 
It stands over his grave now , in Bellefontaine cemetery , St . 
The finest thing we saw on our whole Mississippi trip , we saw as we approached New Orleans in the steam tug . 
This was the curving frontage of the crescent city lit up with the white glare of five miles of electric lights . 
It was a wonderful sight , and very beautiful . 
Chapter Reminiscences WE left for St . 
Louis in the 'City of Baton Rouge , on a delightfully hot day , but with the main purpose of my visit but lamely accomplished . 
Then we began to gather momentum , and presently were fairly under way and booming along . 
It was all as natural and familiar and so were the shoreward sights as if there had been no break in my river life . 
There was a 'cub , and I judged that he would take the wheel now and he did . 
Captain Bixby stepped into the pilot house . 
Presently the cub closed up on the rank of steamships . 
He made me nervous , for he allowed too much water to show between our boat and the ships . 
I knew quite well what was going to happen , because I could date back in my own life and inspect the record . 
It was a very great and sincere pleasure to me to see the thing repeated with somebody else as victim . 
in twenty two hours and a half much the swiftest passage I have ever made over that piece of water . 
This sufficiently evidenced the great value of the chart . 
The faint spectral trees , dimly glimpsed through the shredding fog , were very pretty things to see . 
We had a heavy thunder storm at Natchez , another at Vicksburg , and still another about fifty miles below Memphis . 
They had an old fashioned energy which had long been unfamiliar to me . 
This third storm was accompanied by a raging wind . 
We tied up to the bank when we saw the tempest coming , and everybody left the pilot house but me . 
No color that was visible anywhere was quite natural all tints were charged with a leaden tinge from the solid cloud bank overhead . 
The river was leaden all distances the same and even the far reaching ranks of combing white caps were dully shaded by the dark , rich atmosphere through which their swarming legions marched . 
I may not have seen the Alps do their best , of course , and if they can beat the Mississippi , I don't wish to . 
half a mile long , which had been formed during the past nineteen years . 
We judged that they mistook this superb artificial day for the genuine article . 
We had a delightful trip in that thoroughly well ordered steamer , and regretted that it was accomplished so speedily . 
By means of diligence and activity , we managed to hunt out nearly all the old friends . 
One was missing , however he went to his reward , whatever it was , two years ago . 
But I found out all about him . 
His case helped me to realize how lasting can be the effect of a very trifling occurrence . 
This blacksmith cub was there , and the histrionic poison entered his bones . 
This vast , lumbering , ignorant , dull witted lout was stage struck , and irrecoverably . 
He disappeared , and presently turned up in St . 
I ran across him there , by and by . 
I joined him , and tried to get him down out of the clouds , but did not succeed . 
He said he was cast for a part in Julius Caesar , for that night , and if I should come I would see him . 
IF I should come ! I said I wouldn't miss it if I were dead . 
But I came away from the theater that night disappointed and offended for I had had no glimpse of my hero , and his name was not in the bills . 
I met him on the street the next morning , and before I could speak , he asked 'Did you see me ? 'No , you weren't there . 
He looked surprised and disappointed . 
He said 'Yes , I was . 
I was a Roman soldier . 
I was the next to the last one . 
A half a year ago I used to always be the last one but I've been promoted . 
Well , they told me that that poor fellow remained a Roman soldier to the last a matter of thirty four years . 
Sometimes they cast him for a 'speaking part , but not an elaborate one . 
But all in a flash I recognized him . 
He softened , and said make it a bottle of champagne and he was agreeable . 
This meeting brought back to me the St . 
Louis riots of about thirty years ago . 
I spent a week there , at that time , in a boarding house , and had this young fellow for a neighbor across the hall . 
We drilled till about ten o'clock at night then news came that the mob were in great force in the lower end of the town , and were sweeping everything before them . 
Our column moved at once . 
It was a very hot night , and my musket was very heavy . 
We marched and marched and the nearer we approached the seat of war , the hotter I grew and the thirstier I got . 
I was behind my friend so , finally , I asked him to hold my musket while I dropped out and got a drink . 
Then I branched off and went home . 
I was not feeling any solicitude about him of course , because I knew he was so well armed , now , that he could take care of himself without any trouble . 
If I had had any doubts about that , I would have borrowed another musket for him . 
I left the city pretty early the next morning , and if this grizzled man had not happened to encounter my name in the papers the other day in St . 
I ought to have inquired , thirty years ago I know that . 
And I would have inquired , if I had had the muskets but , in the circumstances , he seemed better fixed to conduct the investigations than I was . 
One Monday , near the time of our visit to St . 
Louis , the 'Globe Democrat' came out with a couple of pages of Sunday statistics , whereby it appeared that , St . 
Louis people attended the morning and evening church services the day before , and , children attended Sunday school . 
Thus , persons , out of the city's total of , population , respected the day religious wise . 
I found these statistics , in a condensed form , in a telegram of the Associated Press , and preserved them . 
They made it apparent that St . 
Louis was in a higher state of grace than she could have claimed to be in my time . 
But now that I canvass the figures narrowly , I suspect that the telegraph mutilated them . 
It cannot be that there are more than , Catholics in the town the other , must be classified as Protestants . 
Out of these , , according to this questionable telegram , only , attended church and Sunday school , while out of the , Catholics , , went to church and Sunday school . 
Chapter A Burning Brand ALL at once the thought came into my mind , 'I have not sought out Mr. Brown . 
Upon that text I desire to depart from the direct line of my subject , and make a little excursion . 
I wish to reveal a secret which I have carried with me nine years , and which has become burdensome . 
Upon a certain occasion , nine years ago , I had said , with strong feeling , 'If ever I see St . 
Louis again , I will seek out Mr. Brown , the great grain merchant , and ask of him the privilege of shaking him by the hand . 
The occasion and the circumstances were as follows . 
I must preface it with some explanations , however . 
His letter is written to a burglar named Williams , who is serving a nine year term in a certain State prison , for burglary . 
Williams was not a common sort of person , by any means he was a graduate of Harvard College , and came of good New England stock . 
His father was a clergyman . 
While lying in jail , his health began to fail , and he was threatened with consumption . 
This fact , together with the opportunity for reflection afforded by solitary confinement , had its effect its natural effect . 
He fell into serious thought his early training asserted itself with power , and wrought with strong influence upon his mind and heart . 
He put his old life behind him , and became an earnest Christian . 
Some ladies in the town heard of this , visited him , and by their encouraging words supported him in his good resolutions and strengthened him to continue in his new life . 
The trial ended in his conviction and sentence to the State prison for the term of nine years , as I have before said . 
In the prison he became acquainted with the poor wretch referred to in the beginning of my talk , Jack Hunt , the writer of the letter which I am going to read . 
You will see that the acquaintanceship bore fruit for Hunt . 
When Hunt's time was out , he wandered to St . 
Louis and from that place he wrote his letter to Williams . 
The letter got no further than the office of the prison warden , of course prisoners are not often allowed to receive letters from outside . 
The prison authorities read this letter , but did not destroy it . 
They had not the heart to do it . 
They read it to several persons , and eventually it fell into the hands of those ladies of whom I spoke a while ago . 
The other day I came across an old friend of mine a clergyman who had seen this letter , and was full of it . 
The mere remembrance of it so moved him that he could not talk of it without his voice breaking . 
He promised to get a copy of it for me and here it is an exact copy , with all the imperfections of the original preserved . 
It has many slang expressions in it thieves' argot but their meaning has been interlined , in parentheses , by the prison authorities' St . 
live on the square for months , it would be the best job i ever done in my life . 
The state agent give me a ticket to here , on the car i thought more of what you said to me , but didn't make up my mind . 
but i kept clos to her when she got out of the cars at a way place i said , marm have you lost anything . 
this is what happened is the cause of my being where i am now about which i will tell you before i get done writing . 
You bet i took that chance at once . 
i wish you would let me send you some now . 
two of them new as much as i did i had them put in a class where they could learn something . 
i dont no much myself , but as these kids cant read i get on nicely with them . 
i make sure of them by going after them every Sunday hour before school time , I also got girls to come . 
tell Mack and Harry about me , if they will come out here when their time is up i will get them jobs at once . 
I send you Mr. Brown's card . 
Send my letter to him . 
Here was true eloquence irresistible eloquence and without a single grace or ornament to help it out . 
I have seldom been so deeply stirred by any piece of writing . 
He was practising upon me to see if there was any hope of his being able to read the document to his prayer meeting with anything like a decent command over his feelings . 
The result was not promising . 
However , he determined to risk it and did . 
He got through tolerably well but his audience broke down early , and stayed in that condition to the end . 
The fame of the letter spread through the town . 
Then my friend put it into a sermon and went before his Sunday morning congregation with it . 
The house wept as one individual . 
My friend went on summer vacation up into the fishing regions of our northern British neighbors , and carried this sermon with him , since he might possibly chance to need a sermon . 
He was asked to preach , one day . 
The little church was full . 
Among the people present were the late Dr . 
J. G. Holland , the late Mr. Seymour of the 'New York Times , Mr. Page , the philanthropist and temperance advocate , and , I think , Senator Frye , of Maine . 
The marvelous letter did its wonted work all the people were moved , all the people wept the tears flowed in a steady stream down Dr . 
Holland's cheeks , and nearly the same can be said with regard to all who were there . 
Ah , that unlucky Page ! and another man . 
And take it by and large , it was without a compeer among swindles . 
Charles Dudley Warner was at church , one day , when the worn letter was read and wept over . 
I think it was done by an educated man . 
The literary artist had detected the literary machinery . 
If you will look at the letter now , you will detect it yourself it is observable in every line . 
might be allowed to print the letter and tell its history . 
He presently received this answer Rev . 
MY DEAR FRIEND , In regard to that 'convict's letter' there can be no doubt as to its genuineness . 
'Williams , to whom it was written , lay in our jail and professed to have been converted , and Rev . 
Mr. , the chaplain , had great faith in the genuineness of the change as much as one can have in any such case . 
The letter was sent to one of our ladies , who is a Sunday school teacher , sent either by Williams himself , or the chaplain of the State's prison , probably . 
She has been greatly annoyed in having so much publicity , lest it might seem a breach of confidence , or be an injury to Williams . 
It is a wonderful letter , which no Christian genius , much less one unsanctified , could ever have written . 
Louis , some one said , was a Hartford man . 
He has been sick and threatened with consumption , but I have not inquired after him lately . 
This lady that I speak of corresponds with him , I presume , and will be quite sure to look after him . 
This letter arrived a few days after it was written and up went Mr. Williams's stock again . 
Mr. Warner's low down suspicion was laid in the cold , cold grave , where it apparently belonged . 
I had permission now to print provided I suppressed names and places and sent my narrative out of the country . 
So I chose an Australian magazine for vehicle , as being far enough out of the country , and set myself to work on my article . 
And the ministers set the pumps going again , with the letter to work the handles . 
But meantime Brother Page had been agitating . 
He had not visited the penitentiary , but he had sent a copy of the illustrious letter to the chaplain of that institution , and accompanied it with apparently inquiries . 
He got an answer , dated four days later than that other Brother's reassuring epistle and before my article was complete , it wandered into my hands . 
The original is before me , now , and I here append it . 
It is pretty well loaded with internal evidence of the most solid description STATE'S PRISON , CHAPLAIN'S OFFICE , July , . 
PAGE , Herewith please find the letter kindly loaned me . 
I am afraid its genuineness cannot be established . 
It purports to be addressed to some prisoner here . 
No such letter ever came to a prisoner here . 
All letters received are carefully read by officers of the prison before they go into the hands of the convicts , and any such letter could not be forgotten . 
Again , Charles Williams is not a Christian man , but a dissolute , cunning prodigal , whose father is a minister of the gospel . 
His name is an assumed one . 
I am glad to have made your acquaintance . 
I am preparing a lecture upon life seen through prison bars , and should like to deliver the same in your vicinity . 
And so ended that little drama . 
They said 'Wait the wound is too fresh , yet . 
All the copies of the famous letter except mine disappeared suddenly and from that time onward , the aforetime same old drought set in in the churches . 
'Jack Hunt , the professed writer of the letter , was an imaginary person . 
That is all there is of it simply touch and go no dwelling upon it . 
When I for the first time heard that letter read , nine years ago , I felt that it was the most remarkable one I had ever encountered . 
And it so warmed me toward Mr. Brown of St . 
Louis that I said that if ever I visited that city again , I would seek out that excellent man and kiss the hem of his garment if it was a new one . 
Well , I visited St . 
Chapter My Boyhood's Home WE took passage in one of the fast boats of the St . 
Paul Packet Company , and started up the river . 
When I , as a boy , first saw the mouth of the Missouri River , it was twenty two or twenty three miles above St . 
I could not clearly recognize the place . 
It seemed to me that for a first attempt at a retreat it was not badly done . 
I had done no advancing in all that campaign that was at all equal to it . 
There was a railway bridge across the river here well sprinkled with glowing lights , and a very beautiful sight it was . 
At seven in the morning we reached Hannibal , Missouri , where my boyhood was spent . 
I had had a glimpse of it fifteen years ago , and another glimpse six years earlier , but both were so brief that they hardly counted . 
The only notion of the town that remained in my mind was the memory of it as I had known it when I first quitted it twenty nine years ago . 
That picture of it was still as clear and vivid to me as a photograph . 
I stepped ashore with the feeling of one who returns out of a dead and gone generation . 
It was Sunday morning , and everybody was abed yet . 
The whole town lay spread out below me then , and I could mark and fix every locality , every detail . 
Naturally , I was a good deal moved . 
I said , 'Many of the people I once knew in this tranquil refuge of my childhood are now in heaven some , I trust , are in the other place . 
Paul afford an unbroken succession of lovely pictures . 
It may be that my affection for the one in question biases my judgment in its favor I cannot say as to that . 
An old gentleman , out on an early morning walk , came along , and we discussed the weather , and then drifted into other matters . 
I could not remember his face . 
He said he had been living here twenty eight years . 
So he had come after my time , and I had never seen him before . 
'He was bright , and promised well when he was a boy . 
'Yes , but the thing that happened is what became of it all . 
I asked after another lad , altogether the brightest in our village school when I was a boy . 
I asked after another of the bright boys . 
'He is a success , always has been , always will be , I think . 
I inquired after a young fellow who came to the town to study for one of the professions when I was a boy . 
'Pity , for he was the best natured , and most cheery and hopeful young fellow that ever was . 
'Oh , he is all right . 
Lives here yet has a wife and children , and is prospering . 
Same verdict concerning other boys . 
I named three school girls . 
'The first two live here , are married and have children the other is long ago dead never married . 
I named , with emotion , one of my early sweethearts . 
Been married three times buried two husbands , divorced from the third , and I hear she is getting ready to marry an old fellow out in Colorado somewhere . 
She's got children scattered around here and there , most everywheres . 
The answer to several other inquiries was brief and simple 'Killed in the war . 
Everybody knew it , and everybody said it . 
Well , if that very boy isn't the first lawyer in the State of Missouri to day , I'm a Democrat ! 'Is that so ? 'It's actually so . 
I'm telling you the truth . 
'How do you account for it ? 'Account for it ? There ain't any accounting for it , except that if you send a damned fool to St . 
Louis , and you don't tell them he's a damned fool they'll never find it out . 
There's one thing sure if I had a damned fool I should know what to do with him ship him to St . 
Louis it's the noblest market in the world for that kind of property . 
But don't you think maybe it was the Hannibal people who were mistaken about the boy , and not the St . 
Louis people' 'Oh , nonsense ! The people here have known him from the very cradle they knew him a hundred times better than the St . 
Louis idiots could have known him . 
No , if you have got any damned fools that you want to realize on , take my advice send them to St . 
I mentioned a great number of people whom I had formerly known . 
If he spoke the truth , here was a heavy tragedy , indeed . 
She did not recover from the fright , but went mad . 
In these days it seems incredible that people believed in ghosts so short a time ago . 
After asking after such other folk as I could call to mind , I finally inquired about MYSELF 'Oh , he succeeded well enough another case of damned fool . 
If they'd sent him to St . 
Louis , he'd have succeeded sooner . 
It was with much satisfaction that I recognized the wisdom of having told this candid gentleman , in the beginning , that my name was Smith . 
Among them I presently recognized the house of the father of Lem Hackett . 
When I was a small boy , Lem Hackett was drowned on a Sunday . 
He fell out of an empty flat boat , where he was playing . 
Being loaded with sin , he went to the bottom like an anvil . 
He was the only boy in the village who slept that night . 
We others all lay awake , repenting . 
We had not needed the information , delivered from the pulpit that evening , that Lem's was a case of special judgment we knew that , already . 
There was a ferocious thunder storm , that night , and it raged continuously until near dawn . 
I sat up in bed quaking and shuddering , waiting for the destruction of the world , and expecting it . 
To me there was nothing strange or incongruous in heaven's making such an uproar about Lem Hackett . 
Apparently it was the right and proper thing to do . 
Not a doubt entered my mind that all the angels were grouped together , discussing this boy's case and observing the awful bombardment of our beggarly little village with satisfaction and approval . 
I felt that I was not only one of those people , but the very one most likely to be discovered . 
That discovery could have but one result I should be in the fire with Lem before the chill of the river had been fairly warmed out of him . 
I knew that this would be only just and fair . 
Every time the lightning glared I caught my breath , and judged I was gone . 
'It is true that Jim Smith broke a window and lied about it but maybe he did not mean any harm . 
And although Tom Holmes says more bad words than any other boy in the village , he probably intends to repent though he has never said he would . 
Pity but they would repent of these dreadful things and maybe they will yet . 
It was not a time to neglect even trifling precautions . 
There was no occasion to add anything to the facilities for attracting notice to me so I put the light out . 
It was a long night to me , and perhaps the most distressful one I ever spent . 
Things had become truly serious . 
I resolved to turn over a new leaf instantly I also resolved to connect myself with the church the next day , if I survived to see its sun appear . 
I resolved to cease from sin in all its forms , and to lead a high and blameless life for ever after . 
The world looked so bright and safe that there did not seem to be any real occasion to turn over a new leaf . 
Dutchy belonged to our Sunday school . 
He was a German lad who did not know enough to come in out of the rain but he was exasperatingly good , and had a prodigious memory . 
Circumstances gave to his death a peculiar impressiveness . 
We were diving and 'seeing who could stay under longest . 
We managed to remain down by holding on to the hoop poles . 
Dutchy made such a poor success of it that he was hailed with laughter and derision every time his head appeared above water . 
Treacherous winks were exchanged , and all said 'All right , Dutchy go ahead , we'll play fair . 
They imagined Dutchy's humiliation , when he should rise after a superhuman effort and find the place silent and vacant , nobody there to applaud . 
They were 'so full of laugh' with the idea , that they were continually exploding into muffled cackles . 
Time swept on , and presently one who was peeping through the briers , said , with surprise 'Why , he hasn't come up , yet ! The laughing stopped . 
'Boys , it 's a splendid dive , said one . 
'Never mind that , said another , 'the joke on him is all the better for it . 
There was a remark or two more , and then a pause . 
Talking ceased , and all began to peer through the vines . 
Before long , the boys' faces began to look uneasy , then anxious , then terrified . 
Still there was no movement of the placid water . 
Hearts began to beat fast , and faces to turn pale . 
We all glided out , silently , and stood on the bank , our horrified eyes wandering back and forth from each other's countenances to the water . 
'Somebody must go down and see ! Yes , that was plain but nobody wanted that grisly task . 
'Draw straws ! So we did with hands which shook so , that we hardly knew what we were about . 
The lot fell to me , and I went down . 
The boy had been caught among the hoop poles and entangled there , helplessly . 
I fled to the surface and told the awful news . 
Some of us knew that if the boy were dragged out at once he might possibly be resuscitated , but we never thought of that . 
Then we scurried away and gave the alarm , but none of us went back to see the end of the tragedy . 
We had a more important thing to attend to we all flew home , and lost not a moment in getting ready to lead a better life . 
The night presently closed down . 
Then came on that tremendous and utterly unaccountable storm . 
I was perfectly dazed I could not understand it . 
It seemed to me that there must be some mistake . 
The elements were turned loose , and they rattled and banged and blazed away in the most blind and frantic manner . 
Breakfast time approached while I mused these musings and called these ancient happenings back to mind so I got me back into the present and went down the hill . 
On my way through town to the hotel , I saw the house which was my home when I was a boy . 
The pupils were better dressed and better looking than were those of my time consequently they did not resemble their ancestors and consequently there was nothing familiar to me in their faces . 
If the Model Boy was in either of these Sunday schools , I did not see him . 
This fellow's reproachlessness was a standing reproach to every lad in the village . 
He was the admiration of all the mothers , and the detestation of all their sons . 
I was told what became of him , but as it was a disappointment to me , I will not enter into details . 
Of course I suffered some surprises , along at first , before I had become adjusted to the changed state of things . 
I met young ladies who did not seem to have changed at all but they turned out to be the daughters of the young ladies I had in mind sometimes their grand daughters . 
You say to yourself , 'How can a little girl be a grandmother . 
It takes some little time to accept and realize the fact that while you have been growing old , your friends have not been standing still , in that matter . 
I noticed that the greatest changes observable were with the women , not the men . 
I saw men whom thirty years had changed but slightly but their wives had grown old . 
These were good women it is very wearing to be good . 
There was a saddler whom I wished to see but he was gone . 
Dead , these many years , they said . 
Once or twice a day , the saddler used to go tearing down the street , putting on his coat as he went and then everybody knew a steamboat was coming . 
A malicious Quincy paper used always to refer to this town , in derision as 'Stavely's Landing . 
But there was a carpenter who was my chiefest hero . 
He was a mighty liar , but I did not know that I believed everything he said . 
He was a romantic , sentimental , melodramatic fraud , and his bearing impressed me with awe . 
I vividly remember the first time he took me into his confidence . 
At last he said in a low voice 'My little friend , can you keep a secret ? I eagerly said I could . 
'A dark and dreadful one ? I satisfied him on that point . 
He had always done his murders with a bowie knife , and he made all my hairs rise by suddenly snatching it out and showing it to me . 
I sought him again and again , on my Saturday holidays in fact I spent the summer with him all of it which was valuable to me . 
His fascinations never diminished , for he threw something fresh and stirring , in the way of horror , into each successive murder . 
He always gave names , dates , places everything . 
This by and by enabled me to note two things that he had killed his victims in every quarter of the globe , and that these victims were always named Lynch . 
He had loved one 'too fair for earth , and she had reciprocated 'with all the sweet affection of her pure and noble nature . 
But he had a rival , a 'base hireling' named Archibald Lynch , who said the girl should be his , or he would 'dye his hands in her heart's best blood . 
He had been hunting down the Lynches and slaughtering them , from that day to this twenty years . 
You have heard of the Mysterious Avenger look upon him , for before you stands no less a person ! But beware breathe not a word to any soul . 
Be silent , and wait . 
However , we had a Lynch living in the town and the more I reflected upon his impending doom , the more I could not sleep . 
I advised him to 'fly , and certainly expected him to do it . 
I was ashamed of him , and ashamed of myself I took no further interest in him , and never went to his shop any more . 
He was a heavy loss to me , for he was the greatest hero I had ever known . 
The fellow must have had some talent for some of his imaginary murders were so vividly and dramatically described that I remember all their details yet . 
The people of Hannibal are not more changed than is the town . 
It is no longer a village it is a city , with a mayor , and a council , and water works , and probably a debt . 
The customary half dozen railways center in Hannibal now , and there is a new depot which cost a hundred thousand dollars . 
A deal of money changes hands there now . 
It was a famous breeder of chills and fever in its day . 
I remember one summer when everybody in town had this disease at once . 
Many chimneys were shaken down , and all the houses were so racked that the town had to be rebuilt . 
The chasm or gorge between Lover's Leap and the hill west of it is supposed by scientists to have been caused by glacial action . 
There is an interesting cave a mile or two below Hannibal , among the bluffs . 
I would have liked to revisit it , but had not time . 
In my time the person who then owned it turned it into a mausoleum for his daughter , aged fourteen . 
The body of this poor child was put into a copper cylinder filled with alcohol , and this was suspended in one of the dismal avenues of the cave . 
Chapter A Question of Law THE slaughter house is gone from the mouth of Bear Creek and so is the small jail which once stood in its neighborhood . 
Jimmy Finn was not burned in the calaboose , but died a natural death in a tan vat , of a combination of delirium tremens and spontaneous combustion . 
When I say natural death , I mean it was a natural death for Jimmy Finn to die . 
The calaboose victim was not a citizen he was a poor stranger , a harmless whiskey sodden tramp . 
I know more about his case than anybody else I knew too much of it , in that bygone day , to relish speaking of it . 
An hour or two afterward , the man was arrested and locked up in the calaboose by the marshal large name for a constable , but that was his title . 
At two in the morning , the church bells rang for fire , and everybody turned out , of course I with the rest . 
The tramp had used his matches disastrously he had set his straw bed on fire , and the oaken sheathing of the room had caught . 
When I reached the ground , two hundred men , women , and children stood massed together , transfixed with horror , and staring at the grated windows of the jail . 
That marshal could not be found , and he had the only key . 
But it was not so . 
The timbers were too strong they did not yield . 
It was said that the man's death grip still held fast to the bars after he was dead and that in this position the fires wrapped him about and consumed him . 
As to this , I do not know . 
What was seen after I recognized the face that was pleading through the bars was seen by others , not by me . 
I had not a doubt that I should be hanged if my connection with this tragedy were found out . 
The happenings and the impressions of that time are burnt into my memory , and the study of them entertains me as much now as they themselves distressed me then . 
All this time I was blessedly forgetting one thing the fact that I was an inveterate talker in my sleep . 
But one night I awoke and found my bed mate my younger brother sitting up in bed and contemplating me by the light of the moon . 
I said 'What is the matter ? 'You talk so much I can't sleep . 
I came to a sitting posture in an instant , with my kidneys in my throat and my hair on end . 
Quick out with it what did I say ? 'Nothing much . 
'It's a lie you know everything . 
'Everything about what ? 'You know well enough . 
'About WHAT ? I don't know what you are talking about . 
I think you are sick or crazy or something . 
But anyway , you're awake , and I'll get to sleep while I've got a chance . 
He fell asleep and I lay there in a cold sweat , turning this new terror over in the whirling chaos which did duty as my mind . 
I shook him up , and said 'Suppose a man should come to you drunk 'This is foolish I never get drunk . 
'I don't mean you , idiot I mean the man . 
Now don't you keep breaking in that way , because this is serious . 
There's been a man killed . 
'What ! in this town ? 'Yes , in this town . 
'Well , go on I won't say a single word . 
Well , would it be murder ? 'No suicide . 
This made me very uncomfortable . 
However , it was not a decisive verdict . 
I should have to set out the real case there seemed to be no other way . 
But I would do it cautiously , and keep a watch out for suspicious effects . 
I said 'I was supposing a case , but I am coming to the real one now . 
Do you know how the man came to be burned up in the calaboose ? 'No . 
'Haven't you the least idea ? 'Not the least . 
'Wish you may die in your tracks if you have ? 'Yes , wish I may die in my tracks . 
'Well , the way of it was this . 
The man wanted some matches to light his pipe . 
A boy got him some . 
The man set fire to the calaboose with those very matches , and burnt himself up . 
'Is that so ? 'Yes , it is . 
Now , is that boy a murderer , do you think ? 'Let me see . 
The man was drunk ? 'Yes , he was drunk . 
'And the boy knew it ? 'Yes , he knew it . 
There was a long pause . 
Then came this heavy verdict 'If the man was drunk , and the boy knew it , the boy murdered that man . 
Faint , sickening sensations crept along all the fibers of my body , and I seemed to know how a person feels who hears his death sentence pronounced from the bench . 
I waited to hear what my brother would say next . 
I believed I knew what it would be , and I was right . 
He said 'I know the boy . 
I had nothing to say so I said nothing . 
I said , with admiration 'Why , how in the world did you ever guess it ? 'You told it in your sleep . 
I said to myself , 'How splendid that is ! This is a habit which must be cultivated . 
I praised his sagacity effusively . 
Presently he asked 'Are you going to give him up to the law ? 'No , I said 'I believe that this will be a lesson to him . 
'How good you are ! 'Well , I try to be . 
It is all a person can do in a world like this . 
And now , my burden being shifted to other shoulders , my terrors soon faded away . 
The day before we left Hannibal , a curious thing fell under my notice the surprising spread which longitudinal time undergoes there . 
I learned it from one of the most unostentatious of men the colored coachman of a friend of mine , who lives three miles from town . 
He was to call for me at the Park Hotel at . 
P. M. , and drive me out . 
But he missed it considerably did not arrive till ten . 
He excused himself by saying 'De time is mos' an hour en a half slower in de country en what it is in de town you'll be in plenty time , boss . 
Sometimes we shoves out early for church , Sunday , en fetches up dah right plum in de middle er de sermon . 
A body can't make no calculations 'bout it . 
I had lost two hours and a half but I had learned a fact worth four . 
Chapter An Archangel FROM St . 
Louis northward there are all the enlivening signs of the presence of active , energetic , intelligent , prosperous , practical nineteenth century populations . 
The people don't dream , they work . 
The happy result is manifest all around in the substantial outside aspect of things , and the suggestions of wholesome life and comfort that everywhere appear . 
Quincy is a notable example a brisk , handsome , well ordered city and now , as formerly , interested in art , letters , and other high things . 
But Marion City is an exception . 
Marion City has gone backwards in a most unaccountable way . 
This metropolis promised so well that the projectors tacked 'city' to its name in the very beginning , with full confidence but it was bad prophecy . 
When I first saw Marion City , thirty five years ago , it contained one street , and nearly or quite six houses . 
It contains but one house now , and this one , in a state of ruin , is getting ready to follow the former five into the river . 
Doubtless Marion City was too near to Quincy . 
It had another disadvantage it was situated in a flat mud bottom , below high water mark , whereas Quincy stands high up on the slope of a hill . 
The population of the city is thirty thousand . 
There are some large factories here , and manufacturing , of many sorts , is done on a great scale . 
La Grange and Canton are growing towns , but I missed Alexandria was told it was under water , but would come up to blow in the summer . 
I lived there in an extraordinary year there in real estate matters . 
The 'boom' was something wonderful . 
Everybody bought , everybody sold except widows and preachers they always hold on and when the tide ebbs , they get left . 
The town has a population of fifteen thousand now , and is progressing with a healthy growth . 
It was night , and we could not see details , for which we were sorry , for Keokuk has the reputation of being a beautiful city . 
It was a pleasant one to live in long ago , and doubtless has advanced , not retrograded , in that respect . 
A mighty work which was in progress there in my day is finished now . 
This is the canal over the Rapids . 
It is eight miles long , three hundred feet wide , and is in no place less than six feet deep . 
Its masonry is of the majestic kind which the War Department usually deals in , and will endure like a Roman aqueduct . 
The work cost four or five millions . 
After an hour or two spent with former friends , we started up the river again . 
Keokuk , a long time ago , was an occasional loafing place of that erratic genius , Henry Clay Dean . 
I believe I never saw him but once but he was much talked of when I lived there . 
This is what was said of him He began life poor and without education . 
But he educated himself on the curbstones of Keokuk . 
, and several layers dirtier . 
Nobody could infer the master mind in the top of that edifice from the edifice itself . 
He was an orator by nature in the first place , and later by the training of experience and practice . 
When he was out on a canvass , his name was a lodestone which drew the farmers to his stump from fifty miles around . 
His theme was always politics . 
He used no notes , for a volcano does not need notes . 
, and a great mass meeting was to be held on a certain day in the new Athenaeum . 
A distinguished stranger was to address the house . 
After the building had been packed to its utmost capacity with sweltering folk of both sexes , the stage still remained vacant the distinguished stranger had failed to connect . 
The crowd grew impatient , and by and by indignant and rebellious . 
Presently a sudden silence fell upon the grumbling audience , and everybody's eyes sought a single point the wide , empty , carpetless stage . 
A figure appeared there whose aspect was familiar to hardly a dozen persons present . 
The silence of surprise held its own for a moment , then was broken by a just audible ripple of merriment which swept the sea of faces like the wash of a wave . 
The figure remained as before , thoughtfully inspecting . 
Another wave started laughter , this time . 
It was followed by another , then a third this last one boisterous . 
The speaker talked on unembarrassed , and presently delivered a shot which went home , and silence and attention resulted . 
'When Dean came , said Claggett , 'the people thought he was an escaped lunatic but when he went , they thought he was an escaped archangel . 
This measure was approved by all the rational people in the State but not by the bench of Judges . 
In Burlington , as in all these Upper River towns , one breathes a go ahead atmosphere which tastes good in the nostrils . 
An opera house has lately been built there which is in strong contrast with the shabby dens which usually do duty as theaters in cities of Burlington's size . 
We had not time to go ashore in Muscatine , but had a daylight view of it from the boat . 
In fact , I know it has for I remember it as a small place which it isn't now . 
It did not seem worth while to make trouble about a little thing like that so I swung round to his view of the matter and saved my skin whole . 
Shortly afterward , he went to visit his father and as he has not turned up since , I trust he is there yet . 
And I remember Muscatine still more pleasantly for its summer sunsets . 
I have never seen any , on either side of the ocean , that equaled them . 
All the Upper Mississippi region has these extraordinary sunsets as a familiar spectacle . 
It is the true Sunset Land I am sure no other country can show so good a right to the name . 
The sunrises are also said to be exceedingly fine . 
Chapter On the Upper River THE big towns drop in , thick and fast , now and between stretch processions of thrifty farms , not desolate solitude . 
Such a people , and such achievements as theirs , compel homage . 
Solicitude for the future of a race like this is not in order . 
This region is new so new that it may be said to be still in its babyhood . 
By what it has accomplished while still teething , one may forecast what marvels it will do in the strength of its maturity . 
It is so new that the foreign tourist has not heard of it yet and has not visited it . 
For sixty years , the foreign tourist has steamed up and down the river between St . 
Louis and New Orleans , and then gone home and written his book , believing he had seen all of the river that was worth seeing or that had anything to see . 
made the same old regulation trip he had not heard that there was anything north of St . 
There was this amazing region , bristling with great towns , projected day before yesterday , so to speak , and built next morning . 
A score of them number from fifteen hundred to five thousand people . 
Paul , fifty eight thousand , Minneapolis , sixty thousand and upward . 
The foreign tourist has never heard of these there is no note of them in his books . 
They have sprung up in the night , while he slept . 
So new is this region , that I , who am comparatively young , am yet older than it is . 
When I was born , St . 
Paul had a population of three persons , Minneapolis had just a third as many . 
He had a frog's fertility . 
I must explain that the figures set down above , as the population of St . 
Paul and Minneapolis , are several months old . 
These towns are far larger now . 
In fact , I have just seen a newspaper estimate which gives the former seventy one thousand , and the latter seventy eight thousand . 
This book will not reach the public for six or seven months yet none of the figures will be worth much then . 
Therefore we will give that phrase a rest . 
The Indians have a tradition that Marquette and Joliet camped where Davenport now stands , in . 
The next white man who camped there , did it about a hundred and seventy years later in . 
Davenport has gathered its thirty thousand people within the past thirty years . 
She sends more children to her schools now , than her whole population numbered twenty three years ago . 
Davenport is the official residence of two bishops Episcopal and Catholic . 
Opposite Davenport is the flourishing town of Rock Island , which lies at the foot of the Upper Rapids . 
A great railroad bridge connects the two towns one of the thirteen which fret the Mississippi and the pilots , between St . 
Near the center of the island one catches glimpses , through the trees , of ten vast stone four story buildings , each of which covers an acre of ground . 
These are the Government workshops for the Rock Island establishment is a national armory and arsenal . 
The lead mines are very productive , and of wide extent . 
Dubuque has a great number of manufacturing establishments among them a plow factory which has for customers all Christendom in general . 
At least so I was told by an agent of the concern who was on the boat . 
All this part of the river is rich in Indian history and traditions . 
Black Hawk's was once a puissant name hereabouts as was Keokuk's , further down . 
Formerly , a horse had always been buried with a chief . 
The substitution of the cane shows that Black Hawk's haughty nature was really humbled , and he expected to walk when he got over . 
We noticed that above Dubuque the water of the Mississippi was olive green rich and beautiful and semi transparent , with the sun on it . 
The majestic bluffs that overlook the river , along through this region , charm one with the grace and variety of their forms , and the soft beauty of their adornment . 
And it is all as tranquil and reposeful as dreamland , and has nothing this worldly about it nothing to hang a fret or a worry upon . 
It makes me shudder to this day , to remember that I once came near not getting rid of my stock at all . 
It must be an awful thing to have a railroad left on your hands . 
The locomotive is in sight from the deck of the steamboat almost the whole way from St . 
These railroads have made havoc with the steamboat commerce . 
The clerk of our boat was a steamboat clerk before these roads were built . 
'Captain says 'll take two of them and don't even condescend to look at him . 
'Oh , yes , eight years ago , the captain was on top but it's Smith's turn now . 
Along here , somewhere , on a black night , we ran some exceedingly narrow and intricate island chutes by aid of the electric light . 
The effect was strange , and fine , and very striking . 
We passed Prairie du Chien , another of Father Marquette's camping places and after some hours of progress through varied and beautiful scenery , reached La Crosse . 
It is a choice town , and we made satisfactory use of the hour allowed us , in roaming it over , though the weather was rainier than necessary . 
Pardonably proud of it , too . 
He said 'You'll find scenery between here and St . 
Paul that can give the Hudson points . 
The old gentleman also told us a touching Indian legend or two but not very powerful ones . 
After this excursion into history , he came back to the scenery , and described it , detail by detail , from the Thousand Islands to St . 
'And so we move on . 
Its conic shape thickly wooded surface girding its sides , and its apex like that of a cone , cause the spectator to wonder at nature's workings . 
From its dizzy heights superb views of the forests , streams , bluffs , hills and dales below and beyond for miles are brought within its focus . 
'Then Frontenac looms upon our vision , delightful resort of jaded summer tourists then progressive Red Wing and Diamond Bluff , impressive and preponderous in its lone sublimity then Prescott and the St . 
Croix and anon we see bursting upon us the domes and steeples of St . 
'Do you still travel with it ? 'No , she is laid up till the fall season opens . 
I am helping now to work up the materials for a Tourist's Guide which the St . 
Paul Packet Company are going to issue this summer for the benefit of travelers who go by that line . 
'When you were talking of Maiden's Rock , you spoke of the long departed Winona , darling of Indian song and story . 
Is she the maiden of the rock ? and are the two connected by legend ? 'Yes , and a very tragic and painful one . 
Perhaps the most celebrated , as well as the most pathetic , of all the legends of the Mississippi . 
We asked him to tell it . 
Among the families which used to resort here , was one belonging to the tribe of Wabasha . 
was the name of a maiden who had plighted her troth to a lover belonging to the same band . 
But her stern parents had promised her hand to another , a famous warrior , and insisted on her wedding him . 
The day was fixed by her parents , to her great grief . 
She appeared to accede to the proposal and accompany them to the rock , for the purpose of gathering flowers for the feast . 
'Dashed who in pieces her parents ? 'Yes . 
'Well , it certainly was a tragic business , as you say . 
And moreover , there is a startling kind of dramatic surprise about it which I was not looking for . 
It is a distinct improvement upon the threadbare form of Indian legend . 
As the lecturer remarked , this whole region is blanketed with Indian tales and traditions . 
But I reminded him that people usually merely mention this fact doing it in a way to make a body's mouth water and judiciously stopped there . 
Why ? Because the impression left , was that these tales were full of incident and imagination a pleasant impression which would be promptly dissipated if the tales were told . 
For instance , there was the legend of 'The Undying Head . 
He could not tell it , for many of the details had grown dim in his memory but he would recommend me to find it and enlarge my respect for the Indian imagination . 
I have found the book . 
There are several legends in it which confirm what he said . 
I will offer two of them 'The Undying Head , and 'Peboan and Seegwun , an Allegory of the Seasons . 
An old man was sitting alone in his lodge , by the side of a frozen stream . 
It was the close of winter , and his fire was almost out , He appeared very old and very desolate . 
His locks were white with age , and he trembled in every joint . 
Day after day passed in solitude , and he heard nothing but the sound of the tempest , sweeping before it the new fallen snow . 
One day , as his fire was just dying , a handsome young man approached and entered his dwelling . 
His cheeks were red with the blood of youth , his eyes sparkled with animation , and a smile played upon his lips . 
He walked with a light and quick step . 
His forehead was bound with a wreath of sweet grass , in place of a warrior's frontlet , and he carried a bunch of flowers in his hand . 
'Ah , my son , said the old man , 'I am happy to see you . 
Come and tell me of your adventures , and what strange lands you have been to see . 
Let us pass the night together . 
I will tell you of my prowess and exploits , and what I can perform . 
You shall do the same , and we will amuse ourselves . 
He then drew from his sack a curiously wrought antique pipe , and having filled it with tobacco , rendered mild by a mixture of certain leaves , handed it to his guest . 
When this ceremony was concluded they began to speak . 
'I blow my breath , said the old man , 'and the stream stands still . 
The water becomes stiff and hard as clear stone . 
'I breathe , said the young man , 'and flowers spring up over the plain . 
'I shake my locks , retorted the old man , 'and snow covers the land . 
The leaves fall from the trees at my command , and my breath blows them away . 
The birds get up from the water , and fly to a distant land . 
The animals hide themselves from my breath , and the very ground becomes as hard as flint . 
'I shake my ringlets , rejoined the young man , 'and warm showers of soft rain fall upon the earth . 
The plants lift up their heads out of the earth , like the eyes of children glistening with delight . 
My voice recalls the birds . 
The warmth of my breath unlocks the streams . 
Music fills the groves wherever I walk , and all nature rejoices . 
At length the sun began to rise . 
A gentle warmth came over the place . 
The tongue of the old man became silent . 
The robin and bluebird began to sing on the top of the lodge . 
The stream began to murmur by the door , and the fragrance of growing herbs and flowers came softly on the vernal breeze . 
Daylight fully revealed to the young man the character of his entertainer . 
When he looked upon him , he had the icy visage of Peboan . 
Streams began to flow from his eyes . 
As the sun increased , he grew less and less in stature , and anon had melted completely away . 
Nothing remained on the place of his lodge fire but the miskodeed , footnote The trailing arbutus . 
a small white flower , with a pink border , which is one of the earliest species of northern plants . 
footnote See appendix D. Chapter Speculations and Conclusions WE reached St . 
Paul , at the head of navigation of the Mississippi , and there our voyage of two thousand miles from New Orleans ended . 
It is about a ten day trip by steamer . 
It can probably be done quicker by rail . 
I judge so because I know that one may go by rail from St . 
Louis to Hannibal a distance of at least a hundred and twenty miles in seven hours . 
This is better than walking unless one is in a hurry . 
The season being far advanced when we were in New Orleans , the roses and magnolia blossoms were falling but here in St . 
Paul it was the snow , In New Orleans we had caught an occasional withering breath from over a crater , apparently here in St . 
Paul we caught a frequent benumbing one from over a glacier , apparently . 
But I wander from my theme . 
Paul is a wonderful town . 
It is put together in solid blocks of honest brick and stone , and has the air of intending to stay . 
Two frame houses were built that year , and several persons were added to the population . 
A recent number of the leading St . 
, , number of letters handled , first half of the year , , , number of houses built during three quarters of the year , their cost , , , . 
The increase of letters over the corresponding six months of last year was fifty per cent . 
Last year the new buildings added to the city cost above , , . 
Paul's strength lies in her commerce I mean his commerce . 
He is a manufacturing city , of course all the cities of that region are but he is peculiarly strong in the matter of commerce . 
Last year his jobbing trade amounted to upwards of , , . 
He has a custom house , and is building a costly capitol to replace the one recently burned for he is the capital of the State . 
He has churches without end and not the cheap poor kind , but the kind that the rich Protestant puts up , the kind that the poor Irish 'hired girl' delights to erect . 
What a passion for building majestic churches the Irish hired girl has . 
It is a fine thing for our architecture but too often we enjoy her stately fanes without giving her a grateful thought . 
This is a land of libraries and schools . 
Paul has three public libraries , and they contain , in the aggregate , some forty thousand books . 
He has one hundred and sixteen school houses , and pays out more than seventy thousand dollars a year in teachers' salaries . 
The error is to be corrected . 
The town stands on high ground it is about seven hundred feet above the sea level . 
It is so high that a wide view of river and lowland is offered from its streets . 
It is a very wonderful town indeed , and is not finished yet . 
Look history over you will see . 
But whiskey , you see , was the van leader in this beneficent work . 
It was like a foreigner and excusable in a foreigner to be ignorant of this great truth , and wander off into astronomy to borrow a symbol . 
But if he had been conversant with the facts , he would have said Westward the Jug of Empire takes its way . 
This great van leader arrived upon the ground which St . 
Paul now occupies , in June . 
Yes , at that date , Pierre Parrant , a Canadian , built the first cabin , uncorked his jug , and began to sell whiskey to the Indians . 
The result is before us . 
All that I have said of the newness , briskness , swift progress , wealth , intelligence , fine and substantial architecture , and general slash and go , and energy of St . 
Paul , will apply to his near neighbor , Minneapolis with the addition that the latter is the bigger of the two cities . 
These extraordinary towns were ten miles apart , a few months ago , but were growing so fast that they may possibly be joined now , and getting along under a single mayor . 
Combined , they will then number a population of two hundred and fifty thousand , if they continue to grow as they are now growing . 
Minneapolis is situated at the falls of St . 
The great flouring mills here and at St . 
Paul use the 'new process' and mash the wheat by rolling , instead of grinding it . 
Sixteen railroads meet in Minneapolis , and sixty five passenger trains arrive and depart daily . 
In this place , as in St . 
Here there are three great dailies , ten weeklies , and three monthlies . 
There is a university , with four hundred students and , better still , its good efforts are not confined to enlightening the one sex . 
There are sixteen public schools , with buildings which cost , there are six thousand pupils and one hundred and twenty eight teachers . 
There are also seventy churches existing , and a lot more projected . 
The banks aggregate a capital of , , , and the wholesale jobbing trade of the town amounts to , , a year . 
Paul and Minneapolis are several points of interest Fort Snelling , a fortress occupying a river bluff a hundred feet high the falls of Minnehaha , White bear Lake , and so forth . 
The beautiful falls of Minnehaha are sufficiently celebrated they do not need a lift from me , in that direction . 
The White bear Lake is less known . 
It is a lovely sheet of water , and is being utilized as a summer resort by the wealth and fashion of the State . 
It has its club house , and its hotel , with the modern improvements and conveniences its fine summer residences and plenty of fishing , hunting , and pleasant drives . 
There are a dozen minor summer resorts around about St . 
Paul and Minneapolis , but the White bear Lake is the resort . 
Connected with White bear Lake is a most idiotic Indian legend . 
I would resist the temptation to print it here , if I could , but the task is beyond my strength . 
The guide book names the preserver of the legend , and compliments his 'facile pen . 
Without further comment or delay then , let us turn the said facile pen loose upon the reader A LEGEND OF WHITE BEAR LAKE . 
As he raised his flute to his lips , his blanket slipped from his well formed shoulders , and lay partly on the snow beneath . 
As the legend runs , a large white bear , thinking , perhaps , that polar snows and dismal winter weather extended everywhere , took up his journey southward . 
He at length approached the northern shore of the lake which now bears his name , walked down the bank and made his way noiselessly through the deep heavy snow toward the island . 
It was the same spring ensuing that the lovers met . 
They had left their first retreat , and were now seated among the branches of a large elm which hung far over the lake . 
Instantly every man , woman , and child of the band were upon the bank , but all unarmed . 
Cries and wailings went up from every mouth . 
It is a perplexing business . 
Whereas , one is not interested in the girl she is not the prominent feature of the legend . 
Nevertheless , there you are left , and there you must remain for if you live a thousand years you will never know who got the blanket . 
A dead man could get up a better legend than this one . 
I don't mean a fresh dead man either I mean a man that's been dead weeks and weeks . 
It is hopeless for the occasional visitor to try to keep up with Chicago she outgrows his prophecies faster than he can make them . 
She is always a novelty for she is never the Chicago you saw when you passed through the last time . 
Ascending on the left , a flood was pouring in through and over the levees on the Chandler plantation , the most northern point in Pointe Coupee parish . 
The water completely covered the place , although the levees had given way but a short time before . 
On the right hand side of the river is Turnbull's Island , and on it is a large plantation which formerly was pronounced one of the most fertile in the State . 
The water has hitherto allowed it to go scot free in usual floods , but now broad sheets of water told only where fields were . 
The top of the protecting levee could be seen here and there , but nearly all of it was submerged . 
We pass mile after mile , and it is nothing but trees standing up to their branches in water . 
A water turkey now and again rises and flies ahead into the long avenue of silence . 
The puffing of the boat is music in this gloom , which affects one most curiously . 
It is not the gloom of deep forests or dark caverns , but a peculiar kind of solemn silence and impressive awe that holds one perforce to its recognition . 
We passed two negro families on a raft tied up in the willows this morning . 
They were evidently of the well to do class , as they had a supply of meal and three or four hogs with them . 
Their rafts were about twenty feet square , and in front of an improvised shelter earth had been placed , on which they built their fire . 
Small boats , skiffs , pirogues , etc . 
, are in great demand , and many have been stolen by piratical negroes , who take them where they will bring the greatest price . 
The negroes had given up all thoughts of a crevasse there , as the upper levee had stood so long , and when it did come they were at its mercy . 
On Thursday a number were taken out of trees and off of cabin roofs and brought in , many yet remaining . 
One does not appreciate the sight of earth until he has traveled through a flood . 
At sea one does not expect or look for it , but here , with fluttering leaves , shadowy forest aisles , house tops barely visible , it is expected . 
In fact a grave yard , if the mounds were above water , would be appreciated . 
The river here is known only because there is an opening in the trees , and that is all . 
It is in width , from Fort Adams on the left bank of the Mississippi to the bank of Rapides Parish , a distance of about sixty miles . 
A large portion of this was under cultivation , particularly along the Mississippi and back of the Red . 
When Red River proper was entered , a strong current was running directly across it , pursuing the same direction as that of the Mississippi . 
After a run of some hours , Black River was reached . 
Hardly was it entered before signs of suffering became visible . 
All the willows along the banks were stripped of their leaves . 
One man , whom your correspondent spoke to , said that he had had one hundred and fifty head of cattle and one hundred head of hogs . 
Black River is quite picturesque , even if its shores are under water . 
Here and there one overturned was surrounded by drift wood , forming the nucleus of possibly some future island . 
In order to save coal , as it was impossible to get that fuel at any point to be touched during the expedition , a look out was kept for a wood pile . 
The boy asked for a paper , which was thrown to him , and the couple pushed their tiny craft out into the swell of the boat . 
Presently a little girl , not certainly over twelve years , paddled out in the smallest little canoe and handled it with all the deftness of an old voyageur . 
The little one looked more like an Indian than a white child , and laughed when asked if she were afraid . 
She had been raised in a pirogue and could go anywhere . 
She was bound out to pick willow leaves for the stock , and she pointed to a house near by with water three inches deep on the floors . 
The family did not complain , except on account of losing their stock , and promptly brought a supply of wood in a flat . 
Black River had risen during Thursday , the rd , three quarters inches , and was going up at night still . 
As we progress up the river habitations become more frequent , but are yet still miles apart . 
Nearly all of them are deserted , and the out houses floated off . 
Sometimes a morose gar will throw his tail aloft and disappear in the river , but beyond this everything is quiet the quiet of dissolution . 
A picture frame in which there was a cheap lithograph of a soldier on horseback , as it floated on told of some hearth invaded by the water and despoiled of this ornament . 
At dark , as it was not prudent to run , a place alongside the woods was hunted and to a tall gum tree the boat was made fast for the night . 
The dark recesses , those aisles into this cathedral , gave forth no sound , and even the ripplings of the current die away . 
At daylight Friday morning all hands were up , and up the Black we started . 
The morning was a beautiful one , and the river , which is remarkably straight , put on its loveliest garb . 
The blossoms of the haw perfumed the air deliciously , and a few birds whistled blithely along the banks . 
The trees were larger , and the forest seemed of older growth than below . 
The sun came up in a glory of carmine , and the trees were brilliant in their varied shades of green . 
Not a foot of soil is to be seen anywhere , and the water is apparently growing deeper and deeper , for it reaches up to the branches of the largest trees . 
All along , the bordering willows have been denuded of leaves , showing how long the people have been at work gathering this fodder for their animals . 
An old man in a pirogue was asked how the willow leaves agreed with his cattle . 
They is dropping off powerful fast . 
But what can you do ? It 's all we've got . 
The tendency of the current up the Black is toward the west . 
The water now in sight of us is entirely from the Mississippi . 
Up to Trinity , or rather Troy , which is but a short distance below , the people have nearly all moved out , those remaining having enough for their present personal needs . 
Their cattle , though , are suffering and dying off quite fast , as the confinement on rafts and the food they get breeds disease . 
After a short stop we started , and soon came to a section where there were many open fields and cabins thickly scattered about . 
Here were seen more pictures of distress . 
On the inside of the houses the inmates had built on boxes a scaffold on which they placed the furniture . 
The bed posts were sawed off on top , as the ceiling was not more than four feet from the improvised floor . 
The buildings looked very insecure , and threatened every moment to float off . 
Near the houses were cattle standing breast high in the water , perfectly impassive . 
They did not move in their places , but stood patiently waiting for help to come . 
The sight was a distressing one , and the poor creatures will be sure to die unless speedily rescued . 
Cattle differ from horses in this peculiar quality . 
At half past twelve o'clock a hail was given from a flat boat inside the line of the bank . 
Rounding to we ran alongside , and General York stepped aboard . 
He was just then engaged in getting off stock , and welcomed the 'Times Democrat' boat heartily , as he said there was much need for her . 
He said that the distress was not exaggerated in the least . 
People were in a condition it was difficult even for one to imagine . 
The water was so high there was great danger of their houses being swept away . 
It had already risen so high that it was approaching the eaves , and when it reaches this point there is always imminent risk of their being swept away . 
If this occurs , there will be great loss of life . 
The General spoke of the gallant work of many of the people in their attempts to save their stock , but thought that fully twenty five per cent . 
The water was now eighteen inches higher than in , and there was no land between Vidalia and the hills of Catahoula . 
At two o'clock the 'Susie' reached Troy , sixty five miles above the mouth of Black River . 
Here on the left comes in Little River just beyond that the Ouachita , and on the right the Tensas . 
These three rivers form the Black River . 
Troy , or a portion of it , is situated on and around three large Indian mounds , circular in shape , which rise above the present water about twelve feet . 
They are about one hundred and fifty feet in diameter , and are about two hundred yards apart . 
The houses are all built between these mounds , and hence are all flooded to a depth of eighteen inches on their floors . 
These elevations , built by the aborigines , hundreds of years ago , are the only points of refuge for miles . 
When we arrived we found them crowded with stock , all of which was thin and hardly able to stand up . 
They were mixed together , sheep , hogs , horses , mules , and cattle . 
Here , as below , the remarkable skill of the women and girls in the management of the smaller pirogues was noticed . 
Children were paddling about in these most ticklish crafts with all the nonchalance of adepts . 
General York has put into operation a perfect system in regard to furnishing relief . 
He has made Troy his headquarters , and to this point boats come for their supply of feed for cattle . 
It is much lower than Troy , and the water is eight and nine feet deep in the houses . 
A strong current sweeps through it , and it is remarkable that all of its houses have not gone before . 
The residents of both Troy and Trinity have been cared for , yet some of their stock have to be furnished with food . 
As soon as the 'Susie' reached Troy , she was turned over to General York , and placed at his disposition to carry out the work of relief more rapidly . 
Nearly all her supplies were landed on one of the mounds to lighten her , and she was headed down stream to relieve those below . 
At Tom Hooper's place , a few miles from Troy , a large flat , with about fifty head of stock on board , was taken in tow . 
The animals were fed , and soon regained some strength . 
To day we go on Little River , where the suffering is greatest . 
DOWN BLACK RIVER Saturday Evening , March . 
We started down Black River quite early , under the direction of General York , to bring out what stock could be reached . 
Going down river a flat in tow was left in a central locality , and from there men poled her back in the rear of plantations , picking up the animals wherever found . 
In the loft of a gin house there were seventeen head found , and after a gangway was built they were led down into the flat without difficulty . 
Taking a skiff with the General , your reporter was pulled up to a little house of two rooms , in which the water was standing two feet on the floors . 
One or two dug outs were drifting about in the roam ready to be put in service at any time . 
Mrs. Taylor said she thanked Major Burke , but she would try and hold out . 
The remarkable tenacity of the people here to their homes is beyond all comprehension . 
Just below , at a point sixteen miles from Troy , information was received that the house of Mr. Tom Ellis was in danger , and his family were all in it . 
We steamed there immediately , and a sad picture was presented . 
One side of the house was given up to the work animals , some twelve head , besides hogs . 
In the next room the family lived , the water coming within two inches of the bed rail . 
The stove was below water , and the cooking was done on a fire on top of it . 
The house threatened to give way at any moment one end of it was sinking , and , in fact , the building looked a mere shell . 
Notwithstanding the deplorable situation himself and family were in , Mr. Ellis did not want to leave . 
He said he thought he would wait until Monday , and take the risk of his house falling . 
The children around the door looked perfectly contented , seeming to care little for the danger they were in . 
These are but two instances of the many . 
It seemed to be incomprehensible , yet the love for the old place was stronger than that for safety . 
After leaving the Ellis place , the next spot touched at was the Oswald place . 
It was found impossible to get them out without cutting away a portion of the front and so axes were brought into requisition and a gap made . 
After much labor the horses and mules were securely placed on the flat . 
At each place we stop there are always three , four , or more dug outs arriving , bringing information of stock in other places in need . 
All along Black River the 'Susie' has been visited by scores of planters , whose tales are the repetition of those already heard of suffering and loss . 
Luckily the people cared first for their work stock , and when they could find it horses and mules were housed in a place of safety . 
From daylight to late at night he is going this way and that , cheering by his kindly words and directing with calm judgment what is to be done . 
One unpleasant story , of a certain merchant in New Orleans , is told all along the river . 
It appears for some years past the planters have been dealing with this individual , and many of them had balances in his hands . 
When the overflow came they wrote for coffee , for meal , and , in fact , for such little necessities as were required . 
No response to these letters came , and others were written , and yet these old customers , with plantations under water , were refused even what was necessary to sustain life . 
It is needless to say he is not popular now on Back River . 
The hills spoken of as the place of refuge for the people and stock on Black River are in Catahoula parish , twenty four miles from Black River . 
THE FLOOD STILL RISING Troy March , , noon . 
The flood here is rising about three and a half inches every twenty four hours , and rains have set in which will increase this . 
General York feels now that our efforts ought to be directed towards saving life , as the increase of the water has jeopardized many houses . 
We intend to go up the Tensas in a few minutes , and then we will return and go down Black River to take off families . 
There is a lack of steam transportation here to meet the emergency . 
The General has three boats chartered , with flats in tow , but the demand for these to tow out stock is greater than they can meet with promptness . 
All are working night and day , and the 'Susie' hardly stops for more than an hour anywhere . 
The rise has placed Trinity in a dangerous plight , and momentarily it is expected that some of the houses will float off . 
Troy is a little higher , yet all are in the water . 
Reports have come in that a woman and child have been washed away below here , and two cabins floated off . 
Their occupants are the same who refused to come off day before yesterday . 
One would not believe the utter passiveness of the people . 
As yet no news has been received of the steamer 'Delia , which is supposed to be the one sunk in yesterday's storm on Lake Catahoula . 
She is due here now , but has not arrived . 
Even the mail here is most uncertain , and this I send by skiff to Natchez to get it to you . 
It is impossible to get accurate data as to past crops , etc . 
, as those who know much about the matter have gone , and those who remain are not well versed in the production of this section . 
General York desires me to say that the amount of rations formerly sent should be duplicated and sent at once . 
It is impossible to make any estimate , for the people are fleeing to the hills , so rapid is the rise . 
He has sent for one hundred tents , and , if all go to the hills who are in motion now , two hundred will be required . 
But what can the State do where the people are under subjection to rates of interest ranging from to per cent . 
, and are also under the necessity of pledging their crops in advance even of planting , at these rates , for the privilege of purchasing all of their supplies at per cent . 
The river must be treated as a unit its control cannot be compassed under a divided or separate system of administration . 
Neither are the States especially interested competent to combine among themselves for the necessary operations . 
The work must begin far up the river at least as far as Cairo , if not beyond and must be conducted upon a consistent general plan throughout the course of the river . 
, of the United States Coast Survey B. B. Harrod , the State Engineer of Louisiana Jas . 
B. Eads , whose success with the jetties at New Orleans is a warrant of his competency , and Judge Taylor , of Indiana . 
It would be presumption on the part of any single man , however skilled , to contest the judgment of such a board as this . 
The method of improvement proposed by the commission is at once in accord with the results of engineering experience and with observations of nature where meeting our wants . 
In this work there are many details connected with the forms of these shelter dykes , their arrangements so as to present a series of settling basins , etc . 
, a description of which would only complicate the conception . 
The levee is the crowning work of bank revetment , although not necessarily in immediate connection . 
It may be set back a short distance from the revetted bank but it is , in effect , the requisite parapet . 
, less perimeter in proportion to area of cross section . 
The ultimate effect of levees and revetments confining the floods and bringing all the stages of the river into register is to deepen the channel and let down the slope . 
That the actual capacity of a channel through alluvium depends upon its service during floods has been often shown , but this capacity does not include anomalous , but recurrent , floods . 
Of this , perhaps , the most remarkable example I can give is the effect produced on nearly every class of readers by the appearance of Captain Basil Hall's 'Travels in North America . 
I was in Cincinnati when these volumes came out , but it was not till July , that I procured a copy of them . 
It was perfectly astonishing to hear men who , on other subjects , were of some judgment , utter their opinions upon this . 
I never heard of any instance in which the commonsense generally found in national criticism was so overthrown by passion . 
I do not speak of the want of justice , and of fair and liberal interpretation these , perhaps , were hardly to be expected . 
It was not , therefore , very surprising that the acute and forcible observations of a traveler they knew would be listened to should be received testily . 
, the whole country set to work to discover the causes why Captain Hall had visited the United States , and why he had published his book . 
I do not give this as the gossip of a coterie I am persuaded that it is the belief of a very considerable portion of the country . 
it would have saved them a world of trouble . 
I can hardly describe the curiosity with which I sat down at length to peruse these tremendous volumes still less can I do justice to my surprise at their contents . 
To say that I found not one exaggerated statement throughout the work is by no means saying enough . 
It is impossible for any one who knows the country not to see that Captain Hall earnestly sought out things to admire and commend . 
In fact , Captain Hall saw the country to the greatest possible advantage . 
Of these opportunities he made excellent use nothing important met his eye which did not receive that sort of analytical attention which an experienced and philosophical traveler alone can give . 
But it is not so . 
APPENDIX D THE UNDYING HEAD IN a remote part of the North lived a man and his sister , who had never seen a human being . 
Telling his sister where they had been placed , every morning she would go in search , and never fail of finding each stuck through the heart of a deer . 
She had then only to drag them into the lodge and prepare their food . 
If you do not , it will probably be the cause of my death . 
Take the implements with which we kindle our fires . 
Go some distance from our lodge and build a separate fire . 
When you are in want of food , I will tell you where to find it . 
You must cook for yourself , and I will for myself . 
When you are ill , do not attempt to come near the lodge , or bring any of the utensils you use . 
Be sure always to fasten to your belt the implements you need , for you do not know when the time will come . 
As for myself , I must do the best I can . 
His sister promised to obey him in all he had said . 
Shortly after , her brother had cause to go from home . 
She was alone in her lodge , combing her hair . 
She had just untied the belt to which the implements were fastened , when suddenly the event , to which her brother had alluded , occurred . 
She ran out of the lodge , but in her haste forgot the belt . 
Afraid to return , she stood for some time thinking . 
Finally , she decided to enter the lodge and get it . 
For , thought she , my brother is not at home , and I will stay but a moment to catch hold of it . 
Running in suddenly , she caught hold of it , and was coming out when her brother came in sight . 
He knew what was the matter . 
'Oh , he said , 'did I not tell you to take care . 
But now you have killed me . 
She was going on her way , but her brother said to her , 'What can you do there now . 
Go in , and stay where you have always stayed . 
And what will become of you ? You have killed me . 
He then laid aside his hunting dress and accoutrements , and soon after both his feet began to turn black , so that he could not move . 
Still he directed his sister where to place the arrows , that she might always have food . 
The inflammation continued to increase , and had now reached his first rib and he said 'Sister , my end is near . 
You must do as I tell you . 
You see my medicine sack , and my war club tied to it . 
It contains all my medicines , and my war plumes , and my paints of all colors . 
As soon as the inflammation reaches my breast , you will take my war club . 
It has a sharp point , and you will cut off my head . 
When it is free from my body , take it , place its neck in the sack , which you must open at one end . 
Then hang it up in its former place . 
Do not forget my bow and arrows . 
One of the last you will take to procure food . 
The remainder , tie in my sack , and then hang it up , so that I can look towards the door . 
Now and then I will speak to you , but not often . 
His sister again promised to obey . 
In a little time his breast was affected . 
'Now , said he , 'take the club and strike off my head . 
She was afraid , but he told her to muster courage . 
'Strike , said he , and a smile was on his face . 
Mustering all her courage , she gave the blow and cut off the head . 
'Now , said the head , 'place me where I told you . 
And fearfully she obeyed it in all its commands . 
One day the head said 'The time is not distant when I shall be freed from this situation , and I shall have to undergo many sore evils . 
So the superior manito decrees , and I must bear all patiently . 
In this situation we must leave the head . 
In a certain part of the country was a village inhabited by a numerous and warlike band of Indians . 
In this village was a family of ten young men brothers . 
It was in the spring of the year that the youngest of these blackened his face and fasted . 
Having ended his fast , he went secretly for his brothers at night , so that none in the village could overhear or find out the direction they intended to go . 
Though their drum was heard , yet that was a common occurrence . 
Having ended the usual formalities , he told how favorable his dreams were , and that he had called them together to know if they would accompany him in a war excursion . 
They all answered they would . 
The third brother from the eldest , noted for his oddities , coming up with his war club when his brother had ceased speaking , jumped up . 
The others spoke to him , saying 'Slow , slow , Mudjikewis , when you are in other people's lodges . 
Then , in turn , they took the drum , and sang their songs , and closed with a feast . 
The youngest told them not to whisper their intention to their wives , but secretly to prepare for their journey . 
They all promised obedience , and Mudjikewis was the first to say so . 
The time for their departure drew near . 
Word was given to assemble on a certain night , when they would depart immediately . 
Mudjikewis was loud in his demands for his moccasins . 
Several times his wife asked him the reason . 
'Besides , said she , 'you have a good pair on . 
'Quick , quick , said he , 'since you must know , we are going on a war excursion so be quick . 
He thus revealed the secret . 
That night they met and started . 
The snow was on the ground , and they traveled all night , lest others should follow them . 
And he told them to keep close to each other for fear of losing themselves , as the snow began to fall in very large flakes . 
Near as they walked , it was with difficulty they could see each other . 
The snow continued falling all that day and the following night , so it was impossible to track them . 
They had now walked for several days , and Mudjikewis was always in the rear . 
One day , running suddenly forward , he gave the SAW SAW QUAN , footnote War whoop . 
and struck a tree with his war club , and it broke into pieces as if struck with lightning . 
'Brothers , said he , 'this will be the way I will serve those we are going to fight . 
The leader answered , 'Slow , slow , Mudjikewis , the one I lead you to is not to be thought of so lightly . 
Again he fell back and thought to himself 'What ! what ! who can this be he is leading us to ? He felt fearful and was silent . 
Day after day they traveled on , till they came to an extensive plain , on the borders of which human bones were bleaching in the sun . 
The leader spoke 'They are the bones of those who have gone before us . 
None has ever yet returned to tell the sad tale of their fate . 
Again Mudjikewis became restless , and , running forward , gave the accustomed yell . 
Advancing to a large rock which stood above the ground , he struck it , and it fell to pieces . 
'See , brothers , said he , 'thus will I treat those whom we are going to fight . 
'Still , still , once more said the leader 'he to whom I am leading you is not to be compared to the rock . 
Mudjikewis fell back thoughtful , saying to himself 'I wonder who this can be that he is going to attack and he was afraid . 
At last they came to a piece of rising ground , from which they plainly distinguished , sleeping on a distant mountain , a mammoth bear . 
The distance between them was very great , but the size of the animal caused him to be plainly seen . 
'There , said the leader , 'it is he to whom I am leading you here our troubles will commence , for he is a mishemokwa and a manito . 
, to obtain which , the warriors whose bones we saw , sacrificed their lives . 
You must not be fearful be manly . 
We shall find him asleep . 
Then the leader went forward and touched the belt around the animal's neck . 
'This , said he , 'is what we must get . 
All their efforts were in vain , till it came to the one next the youngest . 
He tried , and the belt moved nearly over the monster's head , but he could get it no farther . 
Then the youngest one , and the leader , made his attempt , and succeeded . 
Placing it on the back of the oldest , he said , 'Now we must run , and off they started . 
When one became fatigued with its weight , another would relieve him . 
Thus they ran till they had passed the bones of all former warriors , and were some distance beyond , when looking back , they saw the monster slowly rising . 
He stood some time before he missed his wampum . 
As if convulsed , the earth shook with every jump he made . 
Very soon he approached the party . 
They , however , kept the belt , exchanging it from one to another , and encouraging each other but he gained on them fast . 
'Brothers , said the leader , 'has never any one of you , when fasting , dreamed of some friendly spirit who would aid you as a guardian ? A dead silence followed . 
'Well , said he , 'fasting , I dreamed of being in danger of instant death , when I saw a small lodge , with smoke curling from its top . 
Getting upon a piece of rising ground , behold ! a lodge , with smoke curling from its top , appeared . 
This gave them all new strength , and they ran forward and entered it . 
The leader spoke to the old man who sat in the lodge , saying , 'Nemesho , help us we claim your protection , for the great bear will kill us . 
'Sit down and eat , my grandchildren , said the old man . 
'Who is a great manito ? said he . 
When the bear arrives at the door , you must run out of the other door of the lodge . 
Then putting his hand to the side of the lodge where he sat , he brought out a bag which he opened . 
Taking out two small black dogs , he placed them before him . 
The skies rang with the howls of the fierce monsters . 
The remaining dog soon took the field . 
The brothers , at the onset , took the advice of the old man , and escaped through the opposite side of the lodge . 
They had not proceeded far before they heard the dying cry of one of the dogs , and soon after of the other . 
'Well , said the leader , 'the old man will share their fate so run he will soon be after us . 
They started with fresh vigor , for they had received food from the old man but very soon the bear came in sight , and again was fast gaining upon them . 
Again the leader asked the brothers if they could do nothing for their safety . 
The leader , running forward , did as before . 
'I dreamed , he cried , 'that , being in great trouble , an old man helped me who was a manito we shall soon see his lodge . 
Taking courage , they still went on . 
After going a short distance they saw the lodge of the old manito . 
They entered immediately and claimed his protection , telling him a manito was after them . 
The old man opened the door and saw him coming . 
He shut it slowly , and said 'Yes , my grandchildren , you have brought trouble upon me . 
Procuring his medicine sack , he took out his small war clubs of black stone , and told the young men to run through the other side of the lodge . 
As he handled the clubs , they became very large , and the old man stepped out just as the bear reached the door . 
Then striking him with one of the clubs , it broke in pieces the bear stumbled . 
Renewing the attempt with the other war club , that also was broken , but the bear fell senseless . 
Each blow the old man gave him sounded like a clap of thunder , and the howls of the bear ran along till they filled the heavens . 
The young men had now run some distance , when they looked back . 
They could see that the bear was recovering from the blows . 
First he moved his paws , and soon they saw him rise on his feet . 
The old man shared the fate of the first , for they now heard his cries as he was torn in pieces . 
Again the monster was in pursuit , and fast overtaking them . 
'Well , said he , 'my dreams will soon be exhausted after this I have but one more . 
He advanced , invoking his guardian spirit to aid him . 
Do not fear , he cried , 'we shall soon get it . 
And so it was , even as he had said . 
Coming to the lake , they saw the canoe with ten paddles , and immediately they embarked . 
Scarcely had they reached the center of the lake , when they saw the bear arrive at its borders . 
Lifting himself on his hind legs , he looked all around . 
Then he waded into the water then losing his footing he turned back , and commenced making the circuit of the lake . 
Meantime the party remained stationary in the center to watch his movements . 
He traveled all around , till at last he came to the place from whence he started . 
Then he commenced drinking up the water , and they saw the current fast setting in towards his open mouth . 
The leader encouraged them to paddle hard for the opposite shore . 
When only a short distance from land , the current had increased so much , that they were drawn back by it , and all their efforts to reach it were in vain . 
Then the leader again spoke , telling them to meet their fates manfully . 
'Now is the time , Mudjikewis , said he , 'to show your prowess . 
Take courage and sit at the bow of the canoe and when it approaches his mouth , try what effect your club will have on his head . 
He obeyed , and stood ready to give the blow while the leader , who steered , directed the canoe for the open mouth of the monster . 
Rapidly advancing , they were just about to enter his mouth , when Mudjikewis struck him a tremendous blow on the head , and gave the SAW SAW QUAN . 
The bear's limbs doubled under him , and he fell , stunned by the blow . 
But before Mudjikewis could renew it , the monster disgorged all the water he had drank , with a force which sent the canoe with great velocity to the opposite shore . 
Instantly leaving the canoe , again they fled , and on they went till they were completely exhausted . 
The earth again shook , and soon they saw the monster hard after them . 
Their spirits drooped , and they felt discouraged . 
'Then , he said , 'this is the last time I can apply to my guardian spirit . 
Now , if we do not succeed , our fates are decided . 
He ran forward , invoking his spirit with great earnestness , and gave the yell . 
'We shall soon arrive , said he to his brothers , 'at the place where my last guardian spirit dwells . 
In him I place great confidence . 
Do not , do not be afraid , or your limbs will be fear bound . 
We shall soon reach his lodge . 
Run , run , he cried . 
One day the sister saw the eyes of the head brighten , as if with pleasure . 
When you hear them coming and calling on my name , go out and say , Alas ! it is long ago that an accident befell him . 
I was the cause of it . 
If they still come near , ask them in , and set meat before them . 
And now you must follow my directions strictly . 
When the bear is near , go out and meet him . 
You will take my medicine sack , bows and arrows , and my head . 
He will then fall senseless . 
By this time the young men will have eaten , and you will call them to your assistance . 
You must then cut the carcass into pieces , yes , into small pieces , and scatter them to the four winds for , unless you do this , he will again revive . 
She promised that all should be done as he said . 
She had only time to prepare the meat , when the voice of the leader was heard calling upon Iamo for aid . 
The woman went out and said as her brother had directed . 
But the war party being closely pursued , came up to the lodge . 
She invited them in , and placed the meat before them . 
While they were eating , they heard the bear approaching . 
Untying the medicine sack and taking the head , she had all in readiness for his approach . 
Saying as she was commanded , she then took the head , and cast it as far from her as she could . 
As it rolled along the ground , the blood , excited by the feelings of the head in this terrible scene , gushed from the nose and mouth . 
The bear , tottering , soon fell with a tremendous noise . 
Then she cried for help , and the young men came rushing out , having partially regained their strength and spirits . 
Mudjikewis , stepping up , gave a yell and struck him a blow upon the head . 
The country was soon overspread with these black animals . 
And it was from this monster that the present race of bears derived their origin . 
Having thus overcome their pursuer , they returned to the lodge . 
In the meantime , the woman , gathering the implements she had used , and the head , placed them again in the sack . 
But the head did not speak again , probably from its great exertion to overcome the monster . 
One day they moved off some distance from the lodge for the purpose of hunting , having left the wampum with the woman . 
They were very successful , and amused themselves , as all young men do when alone , by talking and jesting with each other . 
It may be pleased to hear us talk , and be in our company . 
In the meantime take food to our sister . 
They went and requested the head . 
One day , while busy in their encampment , they were unexpectedly attacked by unknown Indians . 
The skirmish was long contested and bloody many of their foes were slain , but still they were thirty to one . 
The young men fought desperately till they were all killed . 
The attacking party then retreated to a height of ground , to muster their men , and to count the number of missing and slain . 
One of their young men had stayed away , and , in endeavoring to overtake them , came to the place where the head was hung up . 
Seeing that alone retain animation , he eyed it for some time with fear and surprise . 
However , he took it down and opened the sack , and was much pleased to see the beautiful feathers , one of which he placed on his head . 
They all looked at the head and made sport of it . 
But the feathers were so beautiful , that numbers of them also placed them on their heads . 
Then again they used all kinds of indignity to the head , for which they were in turn repaid by the death of those who had used the feathers . 
Then the chief commanded them to throw away all except the head . 
'We will see , said he , 'when we get home , what we can do with it . 
We will try to make it shut its eyes . 
'We will then see , they said , 'if we cannot make it shut its eyes . 
The young men she found lying within short distances of each other , dead , and covered with wounds . 
Various other bodies lay scattered in different directions around them . 
She searched for the head and sack , but they were nowhere to be found . 
She raised her voice and wept , and blackened her face . 
Then she walked in different directions , till she came to the place from whence the head had been taken . 
Then she found the magic bow and arrows , where the young men , ignorant of their qualities , had left them . 
She thought to herself that she would find her brother's head , and came to a piece of rising ground , and there saw some of his paints and feathers . 
These she carefully put up , and hung upon the branch of a tree till her return . 
At dusk she arrived at the first lodge of a very extensive village . 
Here she used a charm , common among Indians when they wish to meet with a kind reception . 
On applying to the old man and woman of the lodge , she was kindly received . 
She made known her errand . 
The former are considered as manitoes . 
She said she only wished to see it , and would be satisfied if she could only get to the door of the lodge . 
She knew she had not sufficient power to take it by force . 
'Come with me , said the Indian , 'I will take you there . 
They went , and they took their seats near the door . 
The council lodge was filled with warriors , amusing themselves with games , and constantly keeping up a fire to smoke the head , as they said , to make dry meat . 
They saw the head move , and not knowing what to make of it , one spoke and said 'Ha ! ha ! It is beginning to feel the effects of the smoke . 
The sister looked up from the door , and her eyes met those of her brother , and tears rolled down the cheeks of the head . 
'Well , said the chief , 'I thought we would make you do something at last . 
Look ! look at it shedding tears , said he to those around him and they all laughed and passed their jokes upon it . 
'Yes , replied the man , 'you have seen her she is a relation of mine , and seldom goes out . 
She stays at my lodge , and asked me to allow her to come with me to this place . 
In the center of the lodge sat one of those young men who are always forward , and fond of boasting and displaying themselves before others . 
'Why , said he , 'I have seen her often , and it is to this lodge I go almost every night to court her . 
All the others laughed and continued their games . 
The young man did not know he was telling a lie to the woman's advantage , who by that means escaped . 
She returned to the man's lodge , and immediately set out for her own country . 
Coming to the spot where the bodies of her adopted brothers lay , she placed them together , their feet toward the east . 
Then taking an ax which she had , she cast it up into the air , crying out , 'Brothers , get up from under it , or it will fall on you . 
This she repeated three times , and the third time the brothers all arose and stood on their feet . 
Mudjikewis commenced rubbing his eyes and stretching himself . 
'Why , said he , 'I have overslept myself . 
Mudjikewis stepped to and fro , uneasy lest he should not get the one he liked . 
But he was not disappointed , for she fell to his lot . 
And they were well matched , for she was a female magician . 
They all said they would do so with pleasure . 
The eldest made the first attempt , and with a rushing noise she fled through the air . 
She had been unsuccessful , as she succeeded in untying only one of the knots . 
All took their turns regularly , and each one succeeded in untying only one knot each time . 
But when the youngest went , she commenced the work as soon as she reached the lodge although it had always been occupied , still the Indians never could see any one . 
For ten nights now , the smoke had not ascended , but filled the lodge and drove them out . 
This last night they were all driven out , and the young woman carried off the head . 
The young people and the sister heard the young woman coming high through the air , and they heard her saying 'Prepare the body of our brother . 
And as soon as they heard it , they went to a small lodge where the black body of Iamo lay . 
His sister commenced cutting the neck part , from which the neck had been severed . 
She cut so deep as to cause it to bleed and the others who were present , by rubbing the body and applying medicines , expelled the blackness . 
In the meantime , the one who brought it , by cutting the neck of the head , caused that also to bleed . 
But the youngest got the most splendid and beautiful , as the bottom of the belt held the richest and rarest . 
Only Mudjikewis's place was , however , named . 
He was to direct the west wind , hence generally called Kebeyun , there to remain for ever . 
The spirits then , amid songs and shouts , took their flight to their respective abodes on high while Iamo , with his sister Iamoqua , descended into the depths below . 
End of the Project Gutenberg Edition of Life on the Mississippi' . 
