The Lamplighter by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
'And what had HE to do with 'em ? asked the lamplighter who officiated as vice . 
'Nothing at all , replied the other 'just exactly nothing at all . 
'Do you mean to say you don't believe in Murphy , then ? demanded the lamplighter who had opened the discussion . 
'I mean to say I believe in Tom Grig , replied the chairman . 
Gentlemen , I drink your healths . 
He sat in the midst of a circle of lamplighters , and was the cacique , or chief of the tribe . 
It is an article of their creed that the first faint glimmering of true civilisation shone in the first street light maintained at the public expense . 
'Gentlemen , said the lamplighter in the chair , 'I drink your healths . 
'Hear , hear , hear ! cried the lamplighters generally . 
'His head ? said the vice . 
'No , replied the chairman , 'not his head . 
'His face , perhaps ? said the vice . 
'No , not his face . 
'His legs ? 'No , not his legs . 
Nor yet his arms , nor his hands , nor his feet , nor his chest , all of which were severally suggested . 
'His nativity , perhaps ? 'That's it , said the chairman , awakening from his thoughtful attitude at the suggestion . 
That's what Tom had cast , gentlemen . 
'In plaster ? asked the vice . 
'I don't rightly know how it's done , returned the chairman . 
'But I suppose it was . 
Tom's family , gentlemen , were all lamplighters . 
'Not the ladies , I hope ? asked the vice . 
'They had talent enough for it , Sir , rejoined the chairman , 'and would have been , but for the prejudices of society . 
Let women have their rights , Sir , and the females of Tom's family would have been every one of 'em in office . 
It's a hard thing upon the women , gentlemen , that they are limited to such a sphere of action as this very hard . 
'I happen to know all about Tom , gentlemen , from the circumstance of his uncle by his mother's side , having been my particular friend . 
His fate was a melancholy one . 
Gas was the death of him . 
When it was first talked of , he laughed . 
He wasn't angry he laughed at the credulity of human nature . 
'In course of time , however , the thing got ground , the experiment was made , and they lighted up Pall Mall . 
Tom's uncle went to see it . 
I foresee in this , says Tom's uncle faintly , and taking to his bed as he spoke I foresee in this , he says , the breaking up of our profession . 
There's no more going the rounds to trim by daylight , no more dribbling down of the oil on the hats and bonnets of ladies and gentlemen when one feels in spirits . 
Any low fellow can light a gas lamp . 
'That's it , said the chairman . 
'Tom loved him , gentlemen , but he survived it . 
Some men are none the worse for this sort of thing . 
Tom was one of 'em . 
He went that very afternoon on a new beat as clear in his head , and as free from fever as Father Mathew himself . 
I have always had it in my head that it must have been somewhere near Canonbury Tower in Islington , but that's a matter of opinion . 
'He was always merry , was Tom , and such a singer , that if there was any encouragement for native talent , he'd have been at the opera . 
'Tom didn't know what could be passing in this old gentleman's mind . 
'Gentlemen , he was one of the strangest and most mysterious looking files that ever Tom clapped his eyes on . 
Here's an extraordinary fulfilment , says the old gentleman , of a prediction of the planets . 
Is there ? says Tom . 
I'm very glad to hear it . 
Young man , says the old gentleman , you don't know me . 
Sir , says Tom , I have not that honour but I shall be happy to drink your health , notwithstanding . 
I read , cries the old gentleman , without taking any notice of this politeness on Tom's part I read what's going to happen , in the stars . 
I hope they're all well , Sir , says Tom , everybody . 
Hush ! cries the old gentleman . 
I have consulted the book of Fate with rare and wonderful success . 
I am versed in the great sciences of astrology and astronomy . 
In my house here , I have every description of apparatus for observing the course and motion of the planets . 
Don't tell me yours isn't , says the old gentleman , who was in such a hurry to speak that he couldn't get the words out fast enough , for I know better . 
There WAS a mystery about his birth . 
His mother had always admitted it . 
Tom had never known who was his father , and some people had gone so far as to say that even SHE was in doubt . 
Let me embrace you , he says , folding his arms about him , and nearly lighting up his old bed furniture gown at Tom's link . 
You're a man of noble aspect . 
Everything combines to prove the accuracy of my observations . 
You have had mysterious promptings within you , he says I know you have had whisperings of greatness , eh ? he says . 
I think I have , says Tom Tom was one of those who can persuade themselves to anything they like I've often thought I wasn't the small beer I was taken for . 
You were right , cries the old gentleman , hugging him again . 
She's beautiful ! cries the old gentleman , who was in such a terrible bustle that he was all in a perspiration . 
She has five thousand pounds , cries the old gentleman . 
But what of that ? what of that ? A word in your ear . 
I'm in search of the philosopher's stone . 
I have very nearly found it not quite . 
It turns everything to gold that's its property . 
'Tom naturally thought it must have a deal of property and said that when the old gentleman did get it , he hoped he'd be careful to keep it in the family . 
Certainly , he says , of course . 
Five thousand pounds ! What's five thousand pounds to us ? What's five million ? he says . 
What's five thousand million ? Money will be nothing to us . 
We shall never be able to spend it fast enough . 
We'll try what we can do , Sir , says Tom . 
We will , says the old gentleman . 
Your name ? Grig , says Tom . 
'Gentlemen , if Tom hadn't been always remarkable for his love of truth , I think you would still have believed him when he said that all this was like a dream . 
There is no better way for a man to find out whether he is really asleep or awake , than calling for something to eat . 
If he's in a dream , gentlemen , he'll find something wanting in flavour , depend upon it . 
The old gentleman ordered up a venison pie , a small ham , and a bottle of very old Madeira . 
, the old gentleman hugs him again , and says , Noble stranger ! let us visit my young and lovely niece . 
He was christened Galileo Isaac Newton Flamstead . 
And a very fine child too , says Tom still aggravating , you'll observe of his age , and as good as fine , I have no doubt . 
If you'll permit me , Miss , says Tom , being a noble stranger and a favourite of the planets , I will conduct myself as such . 
Emma , he says to the other young lady . 
Yes , papa , says she . 
The same day that makes your cousin Mrs. Grig will unite you to the gifted Mooney . 
Come , Mr. Grig , he says . 
In the centre of this room was a stove or furnace , with what Tom called a pot , but which in my opinion was a crucible , in full boil . 
In one corner was a sort of ladder leading through the roof and up this ladder the old gentleman pointed , as he said in a whisper The observatory . 
Mr. Mooney is even now watching for the precise time at which we are to come into all the riches of the earth . 
It will be necessary for he and I , alone in that silent place , to cast your nativity before the hour arrives . 
Put the day and minute of your birth on this piece of paper , and leave the rest to me . 
Hush ! says the old gentleman . 
Farewell ! Stop a minute , says Tom . 
What a hurry you're in ! What's in that large bottle yonder ? It's a child with three heads , says the old gentleman and everything else in proportion . 
Why don't you throw him away ? says Tom . 
What do you keep such unpleasant things here for ? Throw him away ! cries the old gentleman . 
We use him constantly in astrology . 
I shouldn't have thought it , says Tom , from his appearance . 
MUST you go , I say ? 'The old gentleman makes him no answer , but climbs up the ladder in a greater bustle than ever . 
as comfortable as if he was going to be made a freemason , and they were heating the pokers . 
He tried every means of whiling away the time , but it never had seemed to move so slow . 
First , he took a nearer view of the child with three heads , and thought what a comfort it must have been to his parents . 
Then he looked up a long telescope which was pointed out of the window , but saw nothing particular , in consequence of the stopper being on at the other end . 
A hundred times , at least , he looked into the pot where they were boiling the philosopher's stone down to the proper consistency , and wondered whether it was nearly done . 
When it is , thinks Tom , I'll send out for six penn'orth of sprats , and turn 'em into gold fish for a first experiment . 
'At length and at last , the old gentleman's legs appeared upon the steps leading through the roof , and he came slowly down bringing along with him , the gifted Mooney . 
'Gentlemen , you are all aware that if a scientific man isn't absent in his mind , he's of no good at all . 
Mr. Mooney was so absent , that when the old gentleman said to him , Shake hands with Mr. Grig , he put out his leg . 
Here's a mind , Mr. Grig ! cries the old gentleman in a rapture . 
My dear friend , says the old gentleman to the Gifted , prepare him . 
I say , cries Tom , falling back , none of that , you know . 
No preparing by Mr. Mooney if you please . 
Alas ! replies the old gentleman , you don't understand us . 
My friend , inform him of his fate . 
, on that day two months . 
'Gentlemen , I leave you to judge what were Tom's feelings at this announcement , on the eve of matrimony and endless riches . 
I think , he says in a trembling voice , there must be a mistake in the working of that sum . 
Will you do me the favour to cast it up again ? There is no mistake , replies the old gentleman , it is confirmed by Francis Moore , Physician . 
Here is the prediction for to morrow two months . 
And he showed him the page , where sure enough were these words The decease of a great person may be looked for , about this time . 
Which , says the old gentleman , is clearly you , Mr. Grig . 
Too clearly , cries Tom , sinking into a chair , and giving one hand to the old gentleman , and one to the Gifted . 
Halloa ! stop a minute ! cries Tom here's a mistake . 
I need condoling with by sympathising woman , under my afflicting circumstances but we're out in the figure . 
Monster ! cries Tom's young lady , clinging to the Gifted . 
Is THAT your manners ? I abjure thee ! cries Tom's young lady . 
I never will be thine . 
Thou , she says to the Gifted , art the object of my first and all engrossing passion . 
Wrapt in thy sublime visions , thou hast not perceived my love but , driven to despair , I now shake off the woman and avow it . 
Oh , cruel , cruel man ! With which reproach she laid her head upon the Gifted's breast , and put her arms about him in the tenderest manner possible , gentlemen . 
And I , says the other young lady , in a sort of ecstasy , that made Tom start I hereby abjure my chosen husband too . 
Hear me , Goblin ! this was to the Gifted Hear me ! I hold thee in the deepest detestation . 
The maddening interview of this one night has filled my soul with love but not for thee . 
It is for thee , for thee , young man , she cries to Tom . 
As to the Gifted , I have heard Tom say often , that he was certain he was in a fit , and had it inwardly . 
Speak to me ! Oh , speak to me ! cries Tom's young lady to the Gifted . 
I don't want to speak to anybody , he says , finding his voice at last , and trying to push her away . 
I think I had better go . 
I'm I'm frightened , he says , looking about as if he had lost something . 
Not one look of love ! she cries . 
Hear me while I declare I don't know how to look a look of love , he says , all in a maze . 
I don't want to hear anybody . 
That's right ! Don't hear her . 
Emma shall marry you to morrow , my friend , whether she likes it or not , and SHE shall marry Mr. Grig . 
darts in , and spinning round and round , like a young giant's top , cries , Let her . 
I'll never marry anybody after this never . 
I have been led to the contemplation of woman kind , and will not adventure on the troubled waters of matrimony . 
And if anybody asks me any more , I'll run away , and never come back again . 
Mr. Grig , says the old gentleman , the stars must be obeyed . 
He had seen her hiding and skipping about the two doors , and had observed that a very little whispering from her pacified the Salamander directly . 
So , thinks Tom , this is a plot but it won't fit . 
Eh , Mr. Grig ? says the old gentleman . 
Why , Sir , says Tom , pointing to the crucible , if the soup's nearly ready Another hour beholds the consummation of our labours , returned the old gentleman . 
Very good , says Tom , with a mournful air . 
It's only for two months , but I may as well be the richest man in the world even for that time . 
I'm not particular , I'll take her , Sir . 
We have failed for the present , Mr. Grig , says the old gentleman , wiping his forehead . 
And I regret it the more , because I have in fact invested my niece's five thousand pounds in this glorious speculation . 
But don't be cast down , he says , anxiously in another fifteen years , Mr. Grig Oh ! cries Tom , letting the young lady's hand fall . 
Were the stars very positive about this union , Sir ? They were , says the old gentleman . 
I'm sorry to hear it , Tom makes answer , for it's no go , Sir . 
No what ! cries the old gentleman . 
Go , Sir , says Tom , fiercely . 
Then , says the waiting maid , I say he's the man , and the prophecy is fulfilled . 
'In the middle of this little family party , gentlemen , sits Tom all the while , as miserable as you like . 
It don't much matter , Sir , says Tom , I ain't long for this world . 
Eight weeks of marriage , especially with this young woman , might reconcile me to my fate . 
I think , he says , I could go off easy after that . 
With which he embraces her with a very dismal face , and groans in a way that might move a heart of stone even of philosopher's stone . 
Egad , says the old gentleman , that reminds me this bustle put it out of my head there was a figure wrong . 
He'll live to a green old age eighty seven at least ! How much , Sir ? cries Tom . 
Eighty seven ! says the old gentleman . 
'Without another word , Tom flings himself on the old gentleman's neck throws up his hat cuts a caper defies the waiting maid and refers her to the butcher . 
You won't marry her ! says the old gentleman , angrily . 
And live after it ! says Tom . 
I'd sooner marry a mermaid with a small tooth comb and looking glass . 
Then take the consequences , says the other . 
The room swam before his eyes , and he found himself in the watch house . 
'Found himself WHERE ? cried the vice , on behalf of the company generally . 
'In the watch house , said the chairman . 
'It was late at night , and he found himself in the very watch house from which he had been let out that morning . 
'Did he go home ? asked the vice . 
'The watch house people rather objected to that , said the chairman 'so he stopped there that night , and went before the magistrate in the morning . 
Why , you're here again , are you ? says the magistrate , adding insult to injury we'll trouble you for five shillings more , if you can conveniently spare the money . 
Tom told him he had been enchanted , but it was of no use . 
He told the contractors the same , but they wouldn't believe him . 
It was the only imputation on his moral character that ever I heard of . 
