The History of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire If you find any errors please feel free to notify me of them . 
I want to make this the best etext edition possible for both scholars and the general public . 
com are my email addresses for now . 
Please feel free to send me your comments and I hope you enjoy this . 
David Reed History Of The Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire Edward Gibbon , Esq . 
With notes by the Rev . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
Part I. Note The sixteenth chapter I cannot help considering as a very ingenious and specious , but very disgraceful extenuation of the cruelties perpetrated by the Roman magistrates against the Christians . 
It is written in the most contemptibly factious spirit of prejudice against the sufferers it is unworthy of a philosopher and of humanity . 
Let the narrative of Cyprian's death be examined . 
The Conduct Of The Roman Government Towards The Christians , From The Reign Of Nero To That Of Constantine . 
Robertson has been the subject of much blame for his real or supposed lenity towards the Spanish murderers and tyrants in America . 
Mackintosh see Life , i . 
The religious policy of the ancient world seems to have assumed a more stern and intolerant character , to oppose the progress of Christianity . 
Gibbon making the persecutions ascend no higher than Nero , has entirely omitted those which preceded this epoch , and of which St . 
Luke has preserved the memory . 
The only way to justify this omission was , to attack the authenticity of the Acts of the Apostles for , if authentic , they must necessarily be consulted and quoted . 
Now , antiquity has left very few works of which the authenticity is so well established as that of the Acts of the Apostles . 
It is therefore , without sufficient reason , that Gibbon has maintained silence concerning the narrative of St . 
Luke , and this omission is not without importance . 
The rights of toleration were held by mutual indulgence they were justly forfeited by a refusal of the accustomed tribute . 
In Cyrene , they massacred , Greeks in Cyprus , , in Egypt , a very great multitude . 
Many of these unhappy victims were sawn asunder , according to a precedent to which David had given the sanction of his example . 
The victorious Jews devoured the flesh , licked up the blood , and twisted the entrails like a girdle round their bodies . 
See Dion Cassius , l . 
that in Hadrian's war , Jews were cut off by the sword , besides an infinite number which perished by famine , by disease , and by fire . 
For the sect of the Zealots , see Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , l . 
for the characters of the Messiah , according to the Rabbis , l . 
, , for the actions of Barchochebas , l . 
M. Notwithstanding these repeated provocations , the resentment of the Roman princes expired after the victory nor were their apprehensions continued beyond the period of war and danger . 
The moderation or the contempt of the Romans gave a legal sanction to the form of ecclesiastical police which was instituted by the vanquished sect . 
Such gentle treatment insensibly assuaged the stern temper of the Jews . 
Awakened from their dream of prophecy and conquest , they assumed the behavior of peaceable and industrious subjects . 
Their irreconcilable hatred of mankind , instead of flaming out in acts of blood and violence , evaporated in less dangerous gratifications . 
They embraced every opportunity of overreaching the idolaters in trade and they pronounced secret and ambiguous imprecations against the haughty kingdom of Edom . 
that we are indebted for a distinct knowledge of the Edict of Antoninus . 
See Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , l . 
The office of Patriarch was suppressed by Theodosius the younger . 
According to the false Josephus , Tsepho , the grandson of Esau , conducted into Italy the army of Eneas , king of Carthage . 
Another colony of Idumaeans , flying from the sword of David , took refuge in the dominions of Romulus . 
For these , or for other reasons of equal weight , the name of Edom was applied by the Jews to the Roman empire . 
Note The false Josephus is a romancer of very modern date , though some of these legends are probably more ancient . 
It may be worth considering whether many of the stories in the Talmud are not history in a figurative disguise , adopted from prudence . 
The Jews might dare to say many things of Rome , under the significant appellation of Edom , which they feared to utter publicly . 
Later and more ignorant ages took literally , and perhaps embellished , what was intelligible among the generation to which it was addressed . 
The false Josephus has the inauguration of the emperor , with the seven electors and apparently the pope assisting at the coronation ! Pref . 
The difference between them is simple and obvious but , according to the sentiments of antiquity , it was of the highest importance . 
The voice of oracles , the precepts of philosophers , and the authority of the laws , unanimously enforced this national obligation . 
By their lofty claim of superior sanctity the Jews might provoke the Polytheists to consider them as an odious and impure race . 
By disdaining the intercourse of other nations , they might deserve their contempt . 
But this principle , which protected the Jewish synagogue , afforded not any favor or security to the primitive church . 
By embracing the faith of the gospel , the Christians incurred the supposed guilt of an unnatural and unpardonable offence . 
Every Christian rejected with contempt the superstitions of his family , his city , and his province . 
The whole body of Christians unanimously refused to hold any communion with the gods of Rome , of the empire , and of mankind . 
It was in vain that the oppressed believer asserted the inalienable rights of conscience and private judgment . 
Though his situation might excite the pity , his arguments could never reach the understanding , either of the philosophic or of the believing part of the Pagan world . 
we may clearly discover the distinction that was made between the Jewish people and the Christian sect . 
a fair and not inelegant description of the popular sentiments , with regard to the desertion of the established worship . 
In all this there is doubtless much truth yet does not the more important difference lie on the surface ? The Christians made many converts the Jews but few . 
The Pagan interlocutor goes on to make a distinction in favor of the Jews , who had once a temple , altars , victims , c . 
to attain , and dangerous to publish , the knowledge of the true God . 
See the Theologie des Philosophes , in the Abbe d'Olivet's French translation of Tully de Natura Deorum , tom . 
The author of the Philopatris perpetually treats the Christians as a company of dreaming enthusiasts , c . 
and in one place he manifestly alludes to the vision in which St . 
Paul was transported to the third heaven . 
In another place , Triephon , who personates a Christian , after deriding the gods of Paganism , proposes a mysterious oath . 
The Pagan multitude , reserving their gratitude for temporal benefits alone , rejected the inestimable present of life and immortality , which was offered to mankind by Jesus of Nazareth . 
In the first and second books of Origen , Celsus treats the birth and character of our Savior with the most impious contempt . 
The orator Libanius praises Porphyry and Julian for confuting the folly of a sect . 
, which styles a dead man of Palestine , God , and the Son of God . 
The extent and duration of this spiritual conspiracy seemed to render it everyday more deserving of his animadversion . 
We have already seen that the active and successful zeal of the Christians had insensibly diffused them through every province and almost every city of the empire . 
Whatever , says Pliny , may be the principle of their conduct , their inflexible obstinacy appeared deserving of punishment . 
The emperor Trajan refused to incorporate a company of firemen , for the use of the city of Nicomedia . 
The proconsul Pliny had published a general edict against unlawful meetings . 
The prudence of the Christians suspended their Agapae but it was impossible for them to omit the exercise of public worship . 
As the prophecies of the Antichrist , approaching conflagration , c . 
, provoked those Pagans whom they did not convert , they were mentioned with caution and reserve and the Montanists were censured for disclosing too freely the dangerous secret . 
pervicacian certe et inflexibilem obstinationem lebere puniri . 
The precautions with which the disciples of Christ performed the offices of religion were at first dictated by fear and necessity but they were continued from choice . 
By imitating the awful secrecy which reigned in the Eleusinian mysteries , the Christians had flattered themselves that they should render their sacred institutions more respectable in the eyes of the Pagan world . 
But the event , as it often happens to the operations of subtile policy , deceived their wishes and their expectations . 
It was concluded , that they only concealed what they would have blushed to disclose . 
There were many who pretended to confess or to relate the ceremonies of this abhorred society . 
See Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History , vol . 
, and Spanheim , Remarques sur les Caesars de Julien , p . 
See Justin Martyr , Apolog . 
Athenagoras , in Legation , c . 
The last of these writers relates the accusation in the most elegant and circumstantial manner . 
The answer of Tertullian is the boldest and most vigorous . 
But the perusal of the ancient apologies was sufficient to remove even the slightest suspicion from the mind of a candid adversary . 
The Christians , with the intrepid security of innocence , appeal from the voice of rumor to the equity of the magistrates . 
They acknowledge , that if any proof can be produced of the crimes which calumny has imputed to them , they are worthy of the most severe punishment . 
They provoke the punishment , and they challenge the proof . 
In the persecution of Lyons , some Gentile slaves were compelled , by the fear of tortures , to accuse their Christian master . 
The church of Lyons , writing to their brethren of Asia , treat the horrid charge with proper indignation and contempt . 
See Justin Martyr , Apolog . 
It would be tedious and disgusting to relate all that the succeeding writers have imagined , all that Epiphanius has received , and all that Tillemont has copied . 
Sed majoris est Agape , quia per hanc adolescentes tui cum sororibus dormiunt , appendices scilicet gulae lascivia et luxuria . 
The th canon of the council of Illiberis provides against the scandals which too often polluted the vigils of the church , and disgraced the Christian name in the eyes of unbelievers . 
expatiates on the fair and honorable testimony of Pliny , with much reason and some declamation . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
From their reflections , or even from their own feelings , a Charles V. or a Lewis XIV . 
might have acquired a just knowledge of the rights of conscience , of the obligation of faith , and of the innocence of error . 
The same reason which contributes to alleviate the guilt , must have tended to abate the vigor , of their persecutions . 
That in the conviction of any of their subjects who were accused of so very singular a crime , they proceeded with caution and reluctance . 
That they were moderate in the use of punishments and , IV . 
That the afflicted church enjoyed many intervals of peace and tranquility . 
there are not six lines which relate to the Christians nor has the diligence of Xiphilin discovered their name in the large history of Dion Cassius . 
Note The greater part of the Augustan History is dedicated to Diocletian . 
This may account for the silence of its authors concerning Christianity . 
The notices that occur are almost all in the lives composed under the reign of Constantine . 
It may fairly be concluded , from the language which he had into the mouth of Maecenas , that Dion was an enemy to all innovations in religion . 
In fact , when the silence of Pagan historians is noticed , it should be remembered how meagre and mutilated are all the extant histories of the period M. . 
The slow and gradual abolition of the Mosaic ceremonies afforded a safe and innocent disguise to the more early proselytes of the gospel . 
The innocence of the first Christians was protected by ignorance and contempt and the tribunal of the Pagan magistrate often proved their most assured refuge against the fury of the synagogue . 
The character of the philosophic historian , to whom we are principally indebted for the knowledge of this singular transaction , would alone be sufficient to recommend it to our most attentive consideration . 
may seem to offer a proof how strangely the Jews and Christians of Rome were confounded with each other . 
See , in the xviiith and xxvth chapters of the Acts of the Apostles , the behavior of Gallio , proconsul of Achaia , and of Festus , procurator of Judea . 
In the time of Tertullian and Clemens of Alexandria , the glory of martyrdom was confined to St . 
and Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
In the tenth year of the reign of Nero , the capital of the empire was afflicted by a fire which raged beyond the memory or example of former ages . 
The vigilance of government appears not to have neglected any of the precautions which might alleviate the sense of so dreadful a calamity . 
But all the prudence and humanity affected by Nero on this occasion were insufficient to preserve him from the popular suspicion . 
To divert a suspicion , which the power of despotism was unable to suppress , the emperor resolved to substitute in his own place some fictitious criminals . 
With this view , continues Tacitus , he inflicted the most exquisite tortures on those men , who , under the vulgar appellation of Christians , were already branded with deserved infamy . 
They derived their name and origin from Christ , who in the reign of Tiberius had suffered death by the sentence of the procurator Pontius Pilate . 
They died in torments , and their torments were imbittered by insult and derision . 
was reduced as low as terni Nummi which would be equivalent to about fifteen shillings the English quarter . 
We may observe , that the rumor is mentioned by Tacitus with a very becoming distrust and hesitation , whilst it is greedily transcribed by Suetonius , and solemnly confirmed by Dion . 
This testimony is alone sufficient to expose the anachronism of the Jews , who place the birth of Christ near a century sooner . 
that the procuratorship of Pilate corresponded with the last ten years of Tiberius , A. D. . 
As to the particular time of the death of Christ , a very early tradition fixed it to the th of March , A. D. , under the consulship of the two Gemini . 
I am surprised that more stress has not been laid on the confirmation which the Acts of the Apostles derive from these words of Tacitus , Repressa in praesens , and rursus erumpebat . 
G. I have been unwilling to suppress this note , but surely the expression of Tacitus refers to the expected extirpation of the religion by the death of its founder , Christ . 
M. Odio humani generis convicti . 
These words may either signify the hatred of mankind towards the Christians , or the hatred of the Christians towards mankind . 
had been , perhaps , the innocent occasion . 
But as the word convicti does not unite very happily with the rest of the sentence , James Gronovius has preferred the reading of conjuncti , which is authorized by the valuable MS . 
Nardini Roma Antica , p . 
Donatus de Roma Antiqua , l . 
The most sceptical criticism is obliged to respect the truth of this extraordinary fact , and the integrity of this celebrated passage of Tacitus . 
Tacitus very frequently trusts to the curiosity or reflection of his readers to supply those intermediate circumstances and ideas , which , in his extreme conciseness , he has thought proper to suppress . 
The epithet of malefica , which some sagacious commentators have translated magical , is considered by the more rational Mosheim as only synonymous to the exitiabilis of Tacitus . 
The passage concerning Jesus Christ , which was inserted into the text of Josephus , between the time of Origen and that of Eusebius , may furnish an example of no vulgar forgery . 
The accomplishment of the prophecies , the virtues , miracles , and resurrection of Jesus , are distinctly related . 
Josephus acknowledges that he was the Messiah , and hesitates whether he should call him a man . 
of an anonymous critic , whom I believe to have been the learned Abbe de Longuerue . 
Heinichen has endeavored to disengage the original text from the foreign and more recent matter . 
M. See the lives of Tacitus by Lipsius and the Abbe de la Bleterie , Dictionnaire de Bayle a l'article Particle Tacite , and Fabricius , Biblioth . 
Principatum Divi Nervae , et imperium Trajani , uberiorem , securioremque materiam senectuti seposui . 
and that it did not pass for innocent in the eyes of the Romans . 
G. The player's name was Aliturus . 
about two years before , had obtained the pardon and release of some Jewish priests , who were prisoners at Rome . 
has proved that the name of Galilaeans was a very ancient , and perhaps the primitive appellation of the Christians . 
Tillemont , Ruine des Juifs , p . 
The sons of Judas were crucified in the time of Claudius . 
His grandson Eleazar , after Jerusalem was taken , defended a strong fortress with of his most desperate followers . 
When the battering ram had made a breach , they turned their swords against their wives their children , and at length against their own breasts . 
They dies to the last man . 
This conjecture is entirely devoid , not merely of verisimilitude , but even of possibility . 
The Spanish Inscription in Gruter . 
, No. , is a manifest and acknowledged forgery contrived by that noted imposter . 
Cyriacus of Ancona , to flatter the pride and prejudices of the Spaniards . 
See Ferreras , Histoire D'Espagne , tom . 
! M. Guizot , on the authority of Sulpicius Severus , ii . 
, and of Orosius , viii . 
, inclines to the opinion of those who extend the persecution to the provinces . 
Neander takes the view of Gibbon , which is in general that of the most learned writers . 
There is indeed no evidence , which I can discover , of its reaching the provinces and the apparent security , at least as regards his life , with which St . 
Paul pursued his travels during this period , affords at least a strong inference against a rigid and general inquisition against the Christians in other parts of the empire . 
Anxious as they were to avoid the slightest infection of idolatry , their conscience forbade them to contribute to the honor of that daemon who had assumed the character of the Capitoline Jupiter . 
These were the grandsons of St . 
Jude the apostle , who himself was the brother of Jesus Christ . 
Jude were dismissed with compassion and contempt . 
The Capitol was burnt during the civil war between Vitellius and Vespasian , the th of December , A. D. . 
On the th of August , A. D. , the temple of Jerusalem was destroyed by the hands of the Jews themselves , rather than by those of the Romans . 
The new Capitol was dedicated by Domitian . 
Plutarch in Poplicola , tom . 
With regard to the tribute , see Dion Cassius , l . 
Spanheim , de Usu Numismatum , tom . 
and Basnage , Histoire des Juifs , l . 
had seen an old man of ninety publicly examined before the procurator's tribunal . 
This is what Martial calls , Mentula tributis damnata . 
This appellation was at first understood in the most obvious sense , and it was supposed , that the brothers of Jesus were the lawful issue of Joseph and Mary . 
A devout respect for the virginity of the mother of God suggested to the Gnostics , and afterwards to the orthodox Greeks , the expedient of bestowing a second wife on Joseph . 
Critique du Manicheisme , l . 
Thirty nine , squares of a hundred feet each , which , if strictly computed , would scarcely amount to nine acres . 
The story is taken from Hegesippus . 
Sabinus was the elder brother , and , till the accession of Vespasian , had been considered as the principal support of the Flavium family Flavium Clementem patruelem suum contemptissimoe inertice . 
But this persecution was of no long duration . 
The Isle of Pandataria , according to Dion . 
banishes her to that of Pontia , which was not far distant from the other . 
That difference , and a mistake , either of Eusebius or of his transcribers , have given occasion to suppose two Domitillas , the wife and the niece of Clemens . 
See Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
we may consider him as a contemporary writer . 
This is an uncandid sarcasm . 
There is nothing to connect Stephen with the religion of Domitilla . 
He was a knave detected in the malversation of money interceptarum pecuniaram reus . 
About ten years afterwards , under the reign of Trajan , the younger Pliny was intrusted by his friend and master with the government of Bithynia and Pontus . 
The life of Pliny had been employed in the acquisition of learning , and in the business of the world . 
From his ignorance therefore we may derive some useful information . 
with the highest approbation of Pliny's moderate and candid temper . 
I am unable to discover any bigotry in his language or proceedings . 
He pleaded his first cause A. D. the year after the famous eruptions of Mount Vesuvius , in which his uncle lost his life . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
He acknowledged the difficulty of fixing any general plan but he lays down two salutary rules , which often afforded relief and support to the distressed Christians . 
Though he directs the magistrates to punish such persons as are legally convicted , he prohibits them , with a very humane inconsistency , from making any inquiries concerning the supposed criminals . 
Nor was the magistrate allowed to proceed on every kind of information . 
has preserved the edict of Hadrian . 
given us one still more favorable , under the name of Antoninus the authenticity of which is not so universally allowed . 
The second Apology of Justin contains some curious particulars relative to the accusations of Christians . 
Note Professor Hegelmayer has proved the authenticity of the edict of Antoninus , in his Comm . 
In my opinion , the internal evidence is decisive against it . 
M. The expedient which was employed to elude the prudence of the laws , affords a sufficient proof how effectually they disappointed the mischievous designs of private malice or superstitious zeal . 
In a large and tumultuous assembly , the restraints of fear and shame , so forcible on the minds of individuals , are deprived of the greatest part of their influence . 
The acts of the martyrdom of Polycarp exhibit a lively picture of these tumults , which were usually fomented by the malice of the Jews . 
These regulations are inserted in the above mentioned document of Hadrian and Pius . 
It was not so much the past offence , as the actual resistance , which excited the indignation of the magistrate . 
It was esteemed the duty of a humane judge to endeavor to reclaim , rather than to punish , those deluded enthusiasts . 
Their violence , however , was commonly disappointed , and the seasonable interposition of some miraculous power preserved the chaste spouses of Christ from the dishonor even of an involuntary defeat . 
We should not indeed neglect to remark , that the more ancient as well as authentic memorials of the church are seldom polluted with these extravagant and indecent fictions . 
See the rescript of Trajan , and the conduct of Pliny . 
The most authentic acts of the martyrs abound in these exhortations . 
Note Pliny's test was the worship of the gods , offerings to the statue of the emperor , and blaspheming Christ praeterea maledicerent Christo . 
Their reasonings are almost the same but we may discover , that one of these apologists had been a lawyer , and the other a rhetorician . 
which there is nothing to contradict . 
Eusebius likewise says , Other virgins , dragged to brothels , have lost their life rather than defile their virtue . 
G. The miraculous interpositions were the offspring of the coarse imaginations of the monks . 
M. See two instances of this kind of torture in the Acta Sincere Martyrum , published by Ruinart , p . 
He quelled the rising temptation by biting off his tongue . 
The total disregard of truth and probability in the representation of these primitive martyrdoms was occasioned by a very natural mistake . 
Whenever they were invested with a discretionary power , they used it much less for the oppression , than for the relief and benefit of the afflicted church . 
The martyrs , devoted to immediate execution by the Roman magistrates , appear to have been selected from the most opposite extremes . 
The conversion of his wife provoked Claudius Herminianus , governor of Cappadocia , to treat the Christians with uncommon severity . 
Tertullian ad Scapulam , c . 
Tertullian , in his epistle to the governor of Africa , mentions several remarkable instances of lenity and forbearance , which had happened within his knowledge . 
Neque enim in universum aliquid quod quasi certam formam habeat , constitui potest an expression of Trajan , which gave a very great latitude to the governors of provinces . 
Note Gibbon altogether forgets that Trajan fully approved of the course pursued by Pliny . 
That course was , to order all who persevered in their faith to be led to execution perseverantes duci jussi . 
M. In Metalla damnamur , in insulas relegamur . 
The mines of Numidia contained nine bishops , with a proportionable number of their clergy and people , to whom Cyprian addressed a pious epistle of praise and comfort . 
yet we may quote that bishop of Antioch as one of these exemplary martyrs . 
Note The acts of Ignatius are generally received as authentic , as are seven of his letters . 
Ignatius such at least is the opinion of the wisest and most enlightened critics . 
Less , uber dis Religion , v . 
Pearson , Vindic , Ignatianae . 
the slave Blandina was distinguished by more exquisite tortures . 
Of the five martyrs so much celebrated in the acts of Felicitas and Perpetua , two were of a servile , and two others of a very mean , condition . 
His words deserve to be transcribed . 
Note The words that follow should be quoted . 
Besides this , he is speaking of the state of the religion under Caracalla , Elagabalus , Alexander Severus , and Philip , who had not persecuted the Christians . 
It was during the reign of the latter that Origen wrote his books against Celsus . 
After ten centuries of a very free and open trade , some suspicions have arisen among the more learned Catholics . 
But the two former signs are of little weight , and with regard to the last , it is observed by the critics , . 
That the palm was the symbol of victory among the Pagans . 
That among the Christians it served as the emblem , not only of martyrdom , but in general of a joyful resurrection . 
See the epistle of P. Mabillon , on the worship of unknown saints , and Muratori sopra le Antichita Italiane , Dissertat . 
As a specimen of these legends , we may be satisfied with , Christian soldiers crucified in one day , either by Trajan or Hadrian on Mount Ararat . 
See Baronius ad Martyrologium Romanum Tille mont , Mem . 
and Geddes's Miscellanies , vol . 
, which may signify either soldiers or thousands , is said to have occasioned some extraordinary mistakes . 
One of the seventeen was likewise accused of robbery . 
Note Gibbon ought to have said , was falsely accused of robbery , for so it is in the Greek text . 
It must be added , that Saint Dionysius only makes particular mention of the principal martyrs , this is very doubtful . 
M. and that he says , in general , that the fury of the Pagans against the Christians gave to Alexandria the appearance of a city taken by storm . 
This refers to plunder and ill usage , not to actual slaughter . 
M. Finally it should be observed that Origen wrote before the persecution of the emperor Decius . 
G. During the same period of persecution , the zealous , the eloquent , the ambitious Cyprian governed the church , not only of Carthage , but even of Africa . 
He possessed every quality which could engage the reverence of the faithful , or provoke the suspicions and resentment of the Pagan magistrates . 
His character as well as his station seemed to mark out that holy prelate as the most distinguished object of envy and danger . 
Prudence suggested the necessity of a temporary retreat , and the voice of prudence was obeyed . 
But his best apology may be found in the cheerful resolution , with which , about eight years afterwards , he suffered death in the cause of religion . 
The authentic history of his martyrdom has been recorded with unusual candor and impartiality . 
A short abstract , therefore , of its most important circumstances , will convey the clearest information of the spirit , and of the forms , of the Roman persecutions . 
The letters of Cyprian exhibit a very curious and original picture both of the man and of the times . 
the other by Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
See the polite but severe epistle of the clergy of Rome to the bishop of Carthage . 
Pontius labors with the greatest care and diligence to justify his master against the general censure . 
In particular those of Dionysius of Alexandria , and Gregory Thaumaturgus , of Neo Caesarea . 
and Memoires de Tillemont , tom . 
, and his life by Pontius . 
These two relations are consistent with each other , and with probability and what is somewhat remarkable , they are both unsullied by any miraculous circumstances . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
When Valerian was consul for the third , and Gallienus for the fourth time , Paternus , proconsul of Africa , summoned Cyprian to appear in his private council chamber . 
With modest confidence he pleaded the privilege of a citizen , in refusing to give any answer to some invidious and indeed illegal questions which the proconsul had proposed . 
The exiled bishop enjoyed the conveniences of life and the consciousness of virtue . 
On the arrival of a new proconsul in the province the fortune of Cyprian appeared for some time to wear a still more favorable aspect . 
He was recalled from banishment and though not yet permitted to return to Carthage , his own gardens in the neighborhood of the capital were assigned for the place of his residence . 
It should seem that these were circular orders , sent at the same time to all the governors . 
relates the history of his own banishment from Alexandria almost in the same manner . 
But as he escaped and survived the persecution , we must account him either more or less fortunate than Cyprian . 
There are the remains of an aqueduct near Curubis , or Curbis , at present altered into Gurbes and Dr . 
Shaw read an inscription , which styles that city Colonia Fulvia . 
calls it Apricum et competentem locum , hospitium pro voluntate secretum , et quicquid apponi eis ante promissum est , qui regnum et justitiam Dei quaerunt . 
Upon his conversion , he had sold those gardens for the benefit of the poor . 
At length , exactly one year after Cyprian was first apprehended , Galerius Maximus , proconsul of Africa , received the Imperial warrant for the execution of the Christian teachers . 
The refusal of Cyprian was firm and decisive and the magistrate , when he had taken the opinion of his council , pronounced with some reluctance the sentence of death . 
When Cyprian a twelvemonth before , was sent into exile , he dreamt that he should be put to death the next day . 
The event made it necessary to explain that word , as signifying a year . 
This was not , as it appears , the motive which induced St . 
Dominum confiteri et plebem universam praepositi praesentis confessione clarificari Ep . 
acknowledges that Cyprian , with whom he supped , passed the night custodia delicata . 
See the original sentence in the Acts , c . 
and in Pontius , c . 
The latter expresses it in a more rhetorical manner . 
As soon as the sentence was proclaimed , a general cry of We will die with him , arose at once among the listening multitude of Christians who waited before the palace gates . 
The generous effusions of their zeal and their affection were neither serviceable to Cyprian nor dangerous to themselves . 
His faithful presbyters and deacons were permitted to accompany their holy bishop . 
The martyr then covered his face with his hands , and at one blow his head was separated from his body . 
It is remarkable , that of so great a multitude of bishops in the province of Africa , Cyprian was the first who was esteemed worthy to obtain the crown of martyrdom . 
There is nothing in the life of St . 
is not pleased with so positive an exclusion of any former martyr of the episcopal rank . 
G. It was in the choice of Cyprian , either to die a martyr , or to live an apostate but on the choice depended the alternative of honor or infamy . 
The assurance of a lasting reputation upon earth , a motive so congenial to the vanity of human nature , often served to animate the courage of the martyrs . 
The annual commemoration of their virtues and sufferings was observed as a sacred ceremony , and at length terminated in religious worship . 
had been dismissed from the tribunal or the prisons of the Pagan magistrates , obtained such honors as were justly due to their imperfect martyrdom and their generous resolution . 
The most pious females courted the permission of imprinting kisses on the fetters which they had worn , and on the wounds which they had received . 
Distinctions like these , whilst they display the exalted merit , betray the inconsiderable number of those who suffered , and of those who died , for the profession of Christianity . 
Whatever opinion we may entertain of the character or principles of Thomas Becket , we must acknowledge that he suffered death with a constancy not unworthy of the primitive martyrs . 
See Lord Lyttleton's History of Henry II . 
See in particular the treatise of Cyprian de Lapsis , p . 
have left scarcely any thing to add concerning the merit , the honors , and the motives of the martyrs . 
, , , , and de Unitat . 
The number of pretended martyrs has been very much multiplied , by the custom which was introduced of bestowing that honorable name on confessors . 
Note M. Guizot denies that the letters of Cyprian , to which he refers , bear out the statement in the text . 
I cannot scruple to admit the accuracy of Gibbon's quotation . 
Gibbon's misrepresentation lies in the ambiguous expression too often . 
The epistles which Ignatius composed as he was carried in chains through the cities of Asia , breathe sentiments the most repugnant to the ordinary feelings of human nature . 
Several examples have been preserved of a zeal impatient of those restraints which the emperors had provided for the security of the church . 
The behavior of the Christians was too remarkable to escape the notice of the ancient philosophers but they seem to have considered it with much less admiration than astonishment . 
On these melancholy occasions , there were many among the Gentiles who pitied , who admired , and who were converted . 
The generous enthusiasm was communicated from the sufferer to the spectators and the blood of martyrs , according to a well known observation , became the seed of the church . 
Certatim gloriosa in certamina ruebatur multique avidius tum martyria gloriosis mortibus quaerebantur , quam nunc Episcopatus pravis ambitionibus appetuntur . 
He might have omitted the word nunc . 
to justify , by a profusion of examples and authorities , the sentiments of Ignatius . 
We should observe , that the th canon of the council of Illiberis refuses the title of martyrs to those who exposed themselves to death , by publicly destroying the idols . 
Marcus Antoninus de Rebus suis , l . 
The learned are divided between three persons of the same name , who were all proconsuls of Asia . 
I am inclined to ascribe this story to Antoninus Pius , who was afterwards emperor and who may have governed Asia under the reign of Trajan . 
Mosheim , de Rebus Christ , ante Constantin . 
See the Epistle of the Church of Smyrna , ap . 
Note The th chapter of the th book of the Eccles . 
History of Eusebius treats principally of the martyrdom of St . 
Polycarp , and mentions some other martyrs . 
A single example of weakness is related it is that of a Phrygian named Quintus , who , appalled at the sight of the wild beasts and the tortures , renounced his faith . 
This example proves little against the mass of Christians , and this chapter of Eusebius furnished much stronger evidence of their courage than of their timidity . 
which attested , that the persons therein mentioned had complied with the laws , and sacrificed to the Roman deities . 
By producing these false declarations , the opulent and timid Christians were enabled to silence the malice of an informer , and to reconcile in some measure their safety with their religion . 
A slight penance atoned for this profane dissimulation . 
Some of these apostates had yielded on the first menace or exhortation of the magistrate whilst the patience of others had been subdued by the length and repetition of tortures . 
The affrighted countenances of some betrayed their inward remorse , while others advanced with confidence and alacrity to the altars of the gods . 
But the disguise which fear had imposed , subsisted no longer than the present danger . 
! In the second apology of Justin , there is a particular and very curious instance of this legal delay . 
expressly mentions the Dies negantibus praestitutus . 
Justin , that they hardly ever obtained delay . 
Urbicus answered only in these words Thou also hast the appearance of being a Christian . 
Yes , without doubt , replied Lucius . 
The judge ordered that he should be put to death on the instant . 
A third , who came up , was condemned to be beaten with rods . 
Here , then , are three examples where no delay was granted . 
Surely these acts of a single passionate and irritated judge prove the general practice as little as those quoted by Gibbon . 
M. There exist a multitude of others , such as those of Ptolemy , Marcellus , c . 
Justin expressly charges the judges with ordering the accused to be executed without hearing the cause . 
G. This confirms the statement in the text . 
M. Tertullian considers flight from persecution as an imperfect , but very criminal , apostasy , as an impious attempt to elude the will of God , c . 
which is filled with the wildest fanaticism and the most incoherent declamation . 
It is , however , somewhat remarkable , that Tertullian did not suffer martyrdom himself . 
The libellatici , who are chiefly known by the writings of Cyprian , are described with the utmost precision , in the copious commentary of Mosheim , p . 
The penance was not so slight , for it was exactly the same with that of apostates who had sacrificed to idols it lasted several years . 
Ad prima statim verba minantis inimici maximus fratrum numerus fidem suam prodidit nec prostratus est persecutionis impetu , sed voluntario lapsu seipsum prostravit . 
Among these deserters were many priests , and even bishops . 
It was on this occasion that Cyprian wrote his treatise De Lapsis , and many of his epistles . 
The controversy concerning the treatment of penitent apostates , does not occur among the Christians of the preceding century . 
does not permit us to doubt that the number of those who renounced their faith was infinitely below the number of those who boldly confessed it . 
The prefect , he says and his assessors present at the council , were alarmed at seeing the crowd of Christians the judges themselves trembled . 
Cyprian informs us , that the greater part of those who had appeared weak brethren in the persecution of Decius , signalized their courage in that of Gallius . 
Steterunt fortes , et ipso dolore poenitentiae facti ad praelium fortiores Epist . 
Zeal might sometimes provoke , and prudence might sometimes avert or assuage , the superstitious fury of the Pagans . 
Sulpicius Severus was the first author of this computation though he seemed desirous of reserving the tenth and greatest persecution for the coming of the Antichrist . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
The first of these examples is attended with some difficulties which might perplex a sceptical mind . 
The edict of Marcus Antoninus is supposed to have been the effect of his devotion and gratitude for the miraculous deliverance which he had obtained in the Marcomannic war . 
During the whole course of his reign , Marcus despised the Christians as a philosopher , and punished them as a sovereign . 
The testimony given by Pontius Pilate is first mentioned by Justin . 
are very fairly stated by Dom Calmet Dissertat . 
On this miracle , as it is commonly called , of the thundering legion , see the admirable criticism of Mr. Moyle , in his Works , vol . 
Most writers have ascribed the persecutions under Marcus to the latent bigotry of his character Mosheim , to the influence of the philosophic party but the fact is admitted by all . 
Of the Asiatic edict recorded by Melito . 
the date is unknown , nor is it quite clear that it was an Imperial edict . 
If it was the act under which Polycarp suffered , his martyrdom is placed by Ruinart in the sixth , by Mosheim in the ninth , year of the reign of Marcus . 
The martyrs of Vienne and Lyons are assigned by Dodwell to the seventh , by most writers to the seventeenth . 
It is remarkable that Tertullian Apologet . 
issued no edicts against the Christians , and almost positively exempts him from the charge of persecution . 
M. This remarkable synchronism , which explains the persecutions under M Aurelius , is shown at length in Milman's History of Christianity , book ii . 
He always treated with peculiar distinction several persons of both sexes who had embraced the new religion . 
Nor was the peace of the church interrupted , till the increasing numbers of proselytes seem at length to have attracted the attention , and to have alienated the mind of Severus . 
Dion Cassius , or rather his abbreviator Xiphilin , l . 
has explained the condition of the church under the reign of Commodus . 
The Jews and Christians contest the honor of having furnished a nurse is the fratricide son of Severus Caracalla . 
M. Compare the life of Caracalla in the Augustan History , with the epistle of Tertullian to Scapula . 
considers the cure of Severus by the means of holy oil , with a strong desire to convert it into a miracle . 
Tertullian de Fuga , c . 
Judaeos fieri sub gravi poena vetuit . 
Idem etiam de Christianis sanxit . 
But the laws which Severus had enacted soon expired with the authority of that emperor and the Christians , after this accidental tempest , enjoyed a calm of thirty eight years . 
Till this period they had usually held their assemblies in private houses and sequestered places . 
This long repose of the church was accompanied with dignity . 
When the empress Mammaea passed through Antioch , she expressed a desire of conversing with the celebrated Origen , the fame of whose piety and learning was spread over the East . 
The sentiments of Mammaea were adopted by her son Alexander , and the philosophic devotion of that emperor was marked by a singular but injudicious regard for the Christian religion . 
A purer faith , as well as worship , was openly professed and practised among his household . 
is confirmed by the history of Eusebius , and by the writings of Cyprian . 
The former refers the first construction of them to the peace of Alexander Severus the latter , to the peace of Gallienus . 
See the Augustan History , p . 
The emperor Alexander adopted their method of publicly proposing the names of those persons who were candidates for ordination . 
It is true that the honor of this practice is likewise attributed to the Jews . 
Mammaea was styled a holy and pious woman , both by the Christians and the Pagans . 
From the former , therefore , it was impossible that she should deserve that honorable epithet . 
See the Augustan History , p . 
seems to refine too much on the domestic religion of Alexander . 
It may be presumed that the success of the Christians had exasperated the increasing bigotry of the Pagans . 
Gibbon speaks of Dion's silence , not of his ignorance . 
M The supposition in this note is supported by no proof it is probable that Dion Cassius has often designated the Christians by the name of Jews . 
See Dion Cassius , l . 
l G. On this point I should adopt the view of Gibbon rather than that of M Guizot . 
M It is with good reason that this massacre has been called a persecution , for it lasted during the whole reign of Maximin , as may be seen in Eusebius . 
Rufinus expressly confirms it Tribus annis a Maximino persecutione commota , in quibus finem et persecutionis fecit et vitas Hist . 
Peter , as the most formidable rivals to those of Augustus . 
would most probably decide this curious rather than important question . 
Lactantius , de Mortibus Persecutorum , c . 
The administration of Valerian was distinguished by a levity and inconstancy ill suited to the gravity of the Roman Censor . 
In the first part of his reign , he surpassed in clemency those princes who had been suspected of an attachment to the Christian faith . 
the disciples of Christ passed above forty years in a state of prosperity , far more dangerous to their virtue than the severest trials of persecution . 
has very clearly shown that the praefect Macrianus , and the Egyptian Magus , are one and the same person . 
gives us a Greek version of this Latin edict , which seems to have been very concise . 
By another edict , he directed that the Coemeteria should be restored to the Christians . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Their language is in general so ambiguous and incorrect , that we are at a loss to determine how far Aurelian had carried his intentions before he was assassinated . 
have seized the occasion of gaining a few extraordinary martyrs . 
Basmage positively pronounces the same opinion Non intentatum modo , sed executum quoque brevissimo tempore mandatum , nobis infixum est in aniasis . 
, No. and compare Pagi Ann . 
The wealth of that prelate was a sufficient evidence of his guilt , since it was neither derived from the inheritance of his fathers , nor acquired by the arts of honest industry . 
But Paul considered the service of the church as a very lucrative profession . 
His ecclesiastical jurisdiction was venal and rapacious he extorted frequent contributions from the most opulent of the faithful , and converted to his own use a considerable part of the public revenue . 
By his pride and luxury , the Christian religion was rendered odious in the eyes of the Gentiles . 
Paul was better pleased with the title of Ducenarius , than with that of bishop . 
The Ducenarius was an Imperial procurator , so called from his salary of two hundred Sestertia , or l . 
Some critics suppose that the bishop of Antioch had actually obtained such an office from Zenobia , while others consider it only as a figurative expression of his pomp and insolence . 
Simony was not unknown in those times and the clergy some times bought what they intended to sell . 
It appears that the bishopric of Carthage was purchased by a wealthy matron , named Lucilla , for her servant Majorinus . 
Every Follis contained pieces of silver , and the whole sum may be computed at about l . 
Some nice and subtle errors , which he imprudently adopted and obstinately maintained , concerning the doctrine of the Trinity , excited the zeal and indignation of the Eastern churches . 
From Egypt to the Euxine Sea , the bishops were in arms and in motion . 
His determination , however , was founded on the general principles of equity and reason . 
It appears , nevertheless , that the vices and immoralities of Paul of Samosata had much weight in the sentence pronounced against him by the bishops . 
tended to confound the mysterious distinction of the divine persons . 
Paul of Samosata , seems to have entertained some views of attempting a union between Judaism and Christianity both parties rejected the unnatural alliance . 
Geschichte der Israeliter , iv . 
The protection of the severe Zenobia is the only circumstance which may raise a doubt of the notorious immorality of Paul . 
We are entirely indebted to him for the curious story of Paul of Samosata . 
The mind of Diocletian himself was less adapted indeed to speculative inquiries , than to the active labors of war and government . 
The bishops held an honorable rank in their respective provinces , and were treated with distinction and respect , not only by the people , but by the magistrates themselves . 
Prosperity had relaxed the nerves of discipline . 
Fraud , envy , and malice prevailed in every congregation . 
The presbyters aspired to the episcopal office , which every day became an object more worthy of their ambition . 
See Dissertation Preliminaire a l'Art de verifier les Dates . 
Note On the aera of martyrs see the very curious dissertations of Mons Letronne on some recently discovered inscriptions in Egypt and Nubis , p . 
sacrificio pollui coegit , implies their antecedent conversion to the faith , but does not seem to justify the assertion of Mosheim , that they had been privately baptized . 
has quoted from the Spicilegium of Dom Luc d'Archeri a very curious instruction which Bishop Theonas composed for the use of Lucian . 
Lactantius , de M. P. c . 
The reader who consults the original will not accuse me of heightening the picture . 
Eusebius was about sixteen years of age at the accession of the emperor Diocletian . 
Notwithstanding this seeming security , an attentive observer might discern some symptoms that threatened the church with a more violent persecution than any which she had yet endured . 
The zeal and rapid progress of the Christians awakened the Polytheists from their supine indifference in the cause of those deities , whom custom and education had taught them to revere . 
The mutual provocations of a religious war , which had already continued above two hundred years , exasperated the animosity of the contending parties . 
The Pagans were incensed at the rashness of a recent and obscure sect , which presumed to accuse their countrymen of error , and to devote their ancestors to eternal misery . 
The supernatural powers assumed by the church inspired at the same time terror and emulation . 
Philosophy , her most dangerous enemy , was now converted into her most useful ally . 
The prevailing sect of the new Platonicians judged it prudent to connect themselves with the priests , whom perhaps they despised , against the Christians , whom they had reason to fear . 
The romance of Apuleius is as full of devotion as of satire . 
Note On the extraordinary progress of the Mahriac rites , in the West , see De Guigniaud's translation of Creuzer , vol . 
, and Note , tom . 
that when Philostratus composed the life of Apollonius , he had no such intention . 
See Diogenes Laertius , l . 
Cumque alios audiam mussitare indignanter , et dicere opportere statui per Senatum , aboleantur ut haec scripta , quibus Christiana Religio comprobetur , et vetustatis opprimatur auctoritas . 
Arnobius adversus Gentes , l . 
He adds very properly , Erroris convincite Ciceronem . 
nam intercipere scripta , et publicatam velle submergere lectionem , non est Deum defendere sed veritatis testificationem timere . 
gives a very clear and spirited account of two of these philosophic adversaries of the faith . 
The large treatise of Porphyry against the Christians consisted of thirty books , and was composed in Sicily about the year . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
The minds of those princes had never been enlightened by science education had never softened their temper . 
They owed their greatness to their swords , and in their most elevated fortune they still retained their superstitious prejudices of soldiers and peasants . 
It could scarcely be expected that any government should suffer the action of Marcellus the Centurion to pass with impunity . 
The soldiers , as soon as they recovered from their astonishment , secured the person of Marcellus . 
He limits the number of military martyrs , by a remarkable expression , of which neither his Latin nor French translator have rendered the energy . 
Notwithstanding the authority of Eusebius , and the silence of Lactantius , Ambrose , Sulpicius , Orosius , c . 
, it has been long believed , that the Thebaean legion , consisting of Christians , suffered martyrdom by the order of Maximian , in the valley of the Pennine Alps . 
Maurice still subsists , a rich monument of the credulity of Sigismund , king of Burgundy . 
See an excellent Dissertation in xxxvith volume of the Bibliotheque Raisonnee , p . 
M. Guizot criticizes Gibbon's account of this incident . 
Was not this a law of Constantine ? Neither does this circumstance appear in the acts . 
His father had clearly expected him to serve , as he had bought him a new dress for the occasion yet he refused to force the conscience of his son . 
and when Maximilian was condemned to death , the father returned home in joy , blessing God for having bestowed upon him such a son . 
M. See the Acta Sincera , p . 
The accounts of his martyrdom and that of Marcellus , bear every mark of truth and authenticity . 
Note M. Guizot here justly observes , that it was the necessity of sacrificing to the gods , which induced Marcellus to act in this manner . 
Galerius at length extorted ! ! from him the permission of summoning a council , composed of a few persons the most distinguished in the civil and military departments of the state . 
It may be presumed , that they insisted on every topic which might interest the pride , the piety , or the fears , of their sovereign in the destruction of Christianity . 
was , at that time , an inhabitant of Nicomedia but it seems difficult to conceive how he could acquire so accurate a knowledge of what passed in the Imperial cabinet . 
G. This assumes the doubtful point of the authorship of the Treatise . 
M. ! ! This permission was not extorted from Diocletian he took the step of his own accord . 
praecipitis hominis insaniam placuit ergo amicorum sententiam experiri . 
But this measure was in accordance with the artificial character of Diocletian , who wished to have the appearance of doing good by his own impulse and evil by the impulse of others . 
Nam erat hujus malitiae , cum bonum quid facere decrevisse sine consilio faciebat , ut ipse laudaretur . 
quoniam id reprehendendum sciebat , in consilium multos advocabat , ut alioram culpao adscriberetur quicquid ipse deliquerat . 
Eutropius says likewise , Miratus callide fuit , sagax praeterea et admodum subtilis ingenio , et qui severitatem suam aliena invidia vellet explere . 
G. The manner in which the coarse and unfriendly pencil of the author of the Treatise de Mort . 
has drawn the character of Diocletian , seems inconsistent with this profound subtilty . 
Many readers will perhaps agree with Gibbon . 
M. The only circumstance which we can discover , is the devotion and jealousy of the mother of Galerius . 
She is described by Lactantius , as Deorum montium cultrix mulier admodum superstitiosa . 
She had a great influence over her son , and was offended by the disregard of some of her Christian servants . 
Note This disregard consisted in the Christians fasting and praying instead of participating in the banquets and sacrifices which she celebrated with the Pagans . 
Dapibus sacrificabat poene quotidie ac vicariis suis epulis exhibebat . 
Christiani abstinebant , et illa cum gentibus epulante , jejuniis hi et oratiomibus insisteban hine concepit odium Lact de Hist . 
to set bounds to the progress of Christianity . 
The worship and festival of the god Terminus are elegantly illustrated by M. de Boze , Mem . 
de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Lactantius , de M. P. c . 
, gives a very lively picture of the destruction of the church . 
The judges were authorized to hear and to determine every action that was brought against a Christian . 
from man scattered passages of Lactantius and Eusebius , has collected a very just and accurate notion of this edict though he sometimes deviates into conjecture and refinement . 
The edict of Diocletian was executed in all its right during the rest of his reign . 
G. Many ages afterwards , Edward J. practised , with great success , the same mode of persecution against the clergy of England . 
See Hume's History of England , vol . 
His offence , according to the mildest laws , amounted to treason , and deserved death . 
And if it be true that he was a person of rank and education , those circumstances could serve only to aggravate his guilt . 
Lactantius only calls him quidam , et si non recte , magno tamer animo , c . 
adorns him with secular honora Neither have condescended to mention his name but the Greeks celebrate his memory under that of John . 
See Tillemont , Memones Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
His fears were soon alarmed by the view of a danger from which he very narrowly escaped . 
Jealousy and resentment prevailed in every breast , but especially in that of Diocletian . 
A great number of persons , distinguished either by the offices which they had filled , or by the favor which they had enjoyed , were thrown into prison . 
Every mode of torture was put in practice , and the court , as well as city , was polluted with many bloody executions . 
The ecclesiastical historians , from whom alone we derive a partial and imperfect knowledge of this persecution , are at a loss how to account for the fears and dangers of the emperors . 
Two of these writers , a prince and a rhetorician , were eye witnesses of the fire of Nicomedia . 
The one ascribes it to lightning , and the divine wrath the other affirms , that it was kindled by the malice of Galerius himself . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
Potentissimi quondam Eunuchi necati , per quos Palatium et ipse constabat . 
See Lactantius , Eusebius , and Constantine , ad Coetum Sanctorum , c . 
Eusebius confesses his ignorance of the cause of this fire . 
M. de Tillemont has shown how they can be reconciled . 
des Empereurs , Vie de Diocletian , xix . 
G. Had it been done by a Christian , it would probably have been a fanatic , who would have avowed and gloried in it . 
Tillemont's supposition that the fire was first caused by lightning , and fed and increased by the malice of Galerius , seems singularly improbable . 
The pious obstinacy of Felix , an African bishop , appears to have embarrassed the subordinate ministers of the government . 
The curator of his city sent him in chains to the proconsul . 
See the Acta Sincera of Ruinart , p . 
those of Felix of Thibara , or Tibiur , appear much less corrupted than in the other editions , which afford a lively specimen of legendary license . 
See the first book of Optatus of Milevis against the Donatiste , Paris , , edit . 
He lived under the reign of Valens . 
But the ruin of the churches was easily effected by the authority of the government , and by the labor of the Pagans . 
In some provinces , however , the magistrates contented themselves with shutting up the places of religious worship . 
On their approach the citizens threw themselves into the church , with the resolution either of defending by arms that sacred edifice , or of perishing in its ruins . 
The ancient monuments , published at the end of Optatus , p . 
describe , in a very circumstantial manner , the proceedings of the governors in the destruction of churches . 
They made a minute inventory of the plate , c . 
, which they found in them . 
That of the church of Cirta , in Numidia , is still extant . 
confines the calamity to the conventiculum , with its congregation . 
extends it to a whole city , and introduces something very like a regular siege . 
His ancient Latin translator , Rufinus , adds the important circumstance of the permission given to the inhabitants of retiring from thence . 
As Phrygia reached to the confines of Isauria , it is possible that the restless temper of those independent barbarians may have contributed to this misfortune . 
This rigorous order was extended , by a subsequent edict , to the whole body of Christians , who were exposed to a violent and general persecution . 
Heavy penalties were denounced against all who should presume to save a prescribed sectary from the just indignation of the gods , and of the emperors . 
it may be inferred , that Christianity was already introduced into Armenia . 
! He had already passed them in his first edict . 
It does not appear that resentment or fear had any share in the new persecutions perhaps they originated in superstition , and a specious apparent respect for its ministers . 
The oracle of Apollo , consulted by Diocletian , gave no answer and said that just men hindered it from speaking . 
Constantine , who assisted at the ceremony , affirms , with an oath , that when questioned about these men , the high priest named the Christians . 
G. See Mosheim , p . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
The mild and humane temper of Constantius was averse to the oppression of any part of his subjects . 
The principal offices of his palace were exercised by Christians . 
He loved their persons , esteemed their fidelity , and entertained not any dislike to their religious principles . 
His authority contributed , however , to alleviate the sufferings which he pitied and abhorred . 
He consented with reluctance to the ruin of the churches but he ventured to protect the Christians themselves from the fury of the populace , and from the rigor of the laws . 
were indebted for the singular tranquillity which they enjoyed , to the gentle interposition of their sovereign . 
At present it may be sufficient to observe , that every victory of Constantine was productive of some relief or benefit to the church . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
represents them as inconsistent with each other . 
But the former evidently speaks of Constantius in the station of Caesar , and the latter of the same prince in the rank of Augustus . 
Datianus is mentioned , in Gruter's Inscriptions , as having determined the limits between the territories of Pax Julia , and those of Ebora , both cities in the southern part of Lusitania . 
If we recollect the neighborhood of those places to Cape St . 
Vincent , we may suspect that the celebrated deacon and martyr of that name had been inaccurately assigned by Prudentius , c . 
, to Saragossa , or Valentia . 
See the pompous history of his sufferings , in the Memoires de Tillemont , tom . 
Some critics are of opinion , that the department of Constantius , as Caesar , did not include Spain , which still continued under the immediate jurisdiction of Maximian . 
The provinces of Italy and Africa experienced a short but violent persecution . 
The rigorous edicts of Diocletian were strictly and cheerfully executed by his associate Maximian , who had long hated the Christians , and who delighted in acts of blood and violence . 
Among the martyrs of Rome , Adauctus deserves the notice of posterity . 
He was of a noble family in Italy , and had raised himself , through the successive honors of the palace , to the important office of treasurer of the private Jemesnes . 
Adauctus is the more remarkable for being the only person of rank and distinction who appears to have suffered death , during the whole course of this general persecution . 
Rufinus has mistaken the office of Adauctus , as well as the place of his martyrdom . 
Note M. Guizot suggests the powerful cunuchs of the palace . 
Dorotheus , Gorgonius , and Andrew , admitted by Gibbon himself to have been put to death , p . 
The behavior of Mensurius , bishop of Carthage , appears to have been still more reprehensible . 
A deacon of that city had published a libel against the emperor . 
Among these Boniface was the favorite of his mistress and as Aglae mixed love with devotion , it is reported that he was admitted to share her bed . 
Her fortune enabled her to gratify the pious desire of obtaining some sacred relics from the East . 
But as Maxentius was vanquished by Constantine , it suited the purpose of Lactantius to place his death among those of the persecutors . 
Note M. Guizot directly contradicts this statement of Gibbon , and appeals to Eusebius . 
Christian females were exposed to his lusts , as well as to the brutal violence of his colleague Maximian , but they were not selected as Christians . 
M. The epitaph of Marcellus is to be found in Gruter , Inscrip . 
p , No. , and it contains all that we know of his history . 
Veridicus rector lapsis quia crimina flere Praedixit miseris , fuit omnibus hostis amarus . 
Hinc furor , hinc odium sequitur discordia , lites , Seditio , caedes solvuntur foedera pacis . 
Crimen ob alterius , Christum qui in pace negavit Finibus expulsus patriae est feritate Tyranni . 
Haec breviter Damasus voluit comperta referre Marcelli populus meritum cognoscere posset . 
We may observe that Damasus was made Bishop of Rome , A. D. . 
causam dixit jussus con reverti Carthaginem perhaps , in pleading his cause , he exculpated himself , since he received an order to return to Carthage . 
G. The Acts of the Passion of St . 
both in Greek and Latin , from the authority of very ancient manuscripts . 
Note We are ignorant whether Aglae and Boniface were Christians at the time of their unlawful connection . 
Note on the Persecution of Domitian , tom . 
M. de Tillemont proves also that the history is doubtful . 
calls the story of Aglae and Boniface as of equal authority with our popular histories of Whittington and Hickathrift . 
When she was asked what good would come of so much painful trouble she answered , It is thus that Christ , the Son of God , is to be honored . 
G. During the four first centuries , there exist few traces of either bishops or bishoprics in the western Illyricum . 
It has been thought probable that the primate of Milan extended his jurisdiction over Sirmium , the capital of that great province . 
See the Geographia Sacra of Charles de St . 
, with the observations of Lucas Holstenius . 
The viiith book of Eusebius , as well as the supplement concerning the martyrs of Palestine , principally relate to the persecution of Galerius and Maximin . 
The general lamentations with which Lactantius opens the vth book of his Divine Institutions allude to their cruelty . 
the Latin original , of this memorable edict . 
Neither of these writers seems to recollect how directly it contradicts whatever they have just affirmed of the remorse and repentance of Galerius . 
Note But Gibbon has answered this by his just observation , that it is not in the language of edicts and manifestos that we should search for the secre motives of princes . 
In consequence of these orders , great numbers of Christians were released from prison , or delivered from the mines . 
He inserts the epistle of the praefect . 
But this treacherous calm was of short duration nor could the Christians of the East place any confidence in the character of their sovereign . 
Cruelty and superstition were the ruling passions of the soul of Maximin . 
The former suggested the means , the latter pointed out the objects of persecution . 
The emperor was devoted to the worship of the gods , to the study of magic , and to the belief of oracles . 
The prophets or philosophers , whom he revered as the favorites of Heaven , were frequently raised to the government of provinces , and admitted into his most secret councils . 
A system of government was therefore instituted , which was evidently copied from the policy of the church . 
These pontiffs acknowledged , in their turn , the supreme jurisdiction of the metropolitans or high priests of the province , who acted as the immediate vicegerents of the emperor himself . 
A white robe was the ensign of their dignity and these new prelates were carefully selected from the most noble and opulent families . 
The answer of Maximin to the address which he obtained from the citizens of Tyre is still extant . 
Lactantius de M. P. c . 
These writers agree in representing the arts of Maximin but the former relates the execution of several martyrs , while the latter expressly affirms , occidi servos Dei vetuit . 
Note It is easy to reconcile them it is sufficient to quote the entire text of Lactantius Nam cum clementiam specie tenus profiteretur , occidi servos Dei vetuit , debilitari jussit . 
Itaque confessoribus effodiebantur oculi , amputabantur manus , nares vel auriculae desecabantur . 
Haec ille moliens Constantini litteris deterretur . 
Dissimulavit ergo , et tamen , si quis inciderit . 
This detail of torments inflicted on the Christians easily reconciles Lactantius and Eusebius . 
Those who died in consequence of their tortures , those who were plunged into the sea , might well pass for martyrs . 
The mutilation of the words of Lactantius has alone given rise to the apparent contradiction . 
The last edict of toleration issued by Maximin and published by Eusebius himself , Eccl . 
confirms the statement of Lactantius . 
M. The Asiatic Christians had every thing to dread from the severity of a bigoted monarch who prepared his measures of violence with such deliberate policy . 
See the edict of Eusebius , l . 
In this general view of the persecution , which was first authorized by the edicts of Diocletian , I have purposely refrained from describing the particular sufferings and deaths of the Christian martyrs . 
But I cannot determine what I ought to transcribe , till I am satisfied how much I ought to believe . 
The bishops were obliged to check and to censure the forward zeal of the Christians , who voluntarily threw themselves into the hands of the magistrates . 
Some of these were persons oppressed by poverty and debts , who blindly sought to terminate a miserable existence by a glorious death . 
After the church had triumphed over all her enemies , the interest as well as vanity of the captives prompted them to magnify the merit of their respective sufferings . 
Such is the fair deduction from two remarkable passages in Eusebius , l . 
The prudence of the historian has exposed his own character to censure and suspicion . 
It was well known that he himself had been thrown into prison and it was suggested that he had purchased his deliverance by some dishonorable compliance . 
The reproach was urged in his lifetime , and even in his presence , at the council of Tyre . 
See Tillemont , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
Authorities are to be weighed , not excluded from examination . 
Now , the Pagan historians justify in many places the detail which have been transmitted to us by the historians of the church , concerning the tortures endured by the Christians . 
Libanius , the panegyrist of Julian , says , while speaking of the Christians . 
for the emperors had inflicted upon them all these barbarities . 
No. , No. , p . 
G. This sentence of Gibbon has given rise to several learned dissertation Moller , de Fide Eusebii Caesar , c . 
Danzius , de Eusebio Caes . 
Scriptore , ejusque tide historica recte aestimanda , c . 
Kestner Commentatio de Eusebii Hist . 
conditoris auctoritate et fide , c . 
See also Reuterdahl , de Fontibus Historiae Eccles . 
Gibbon's inference may appear stronger than the text will warrant , yet it is difficult , after reading the passages , to dismiss all suspicion of partiality from the mind . 
is filled with strong expressions of resentment and contempt , which could not fail of irritating the magistrate . 
The behavior of Aedesius to Hierocles , praefect of Egypt , was still more extraordinary . 
But truth must not be sacrificed even to well grounded moral indignation . 
Though the language of these martyrs is in great part that of calm de fiance , of noble firmness , yet there are many expressions which betray resentment and contempt . 
Children of Satan , worshippers of Devils , is their common appellation of the heathen . 
On the first unsatisfactory answer , Break his jaw , is the order of the judge . 
It is singular , at least , that Gibbon should have quoted as probably authentic , acts so much embellished with miracle as these of Tarachus are , particularly towards the end . 
Four of them , whom he required to abjure their faith and refused , were burnt alive . 
Tillanant , Memoires Ecclesiastiques , tom . 
The controversy with the Donatists , has reflected some , though perhaps a partial , light on the history of the African church . 
Chapter XVI Conduct Towards The Christians , From Nero To Constantine . 
The recent legendaries record whole armies and cities , which were at once swept away by the undistinguishing rage of persecution . 
Perhaps there never was an instance of an author committing so deliberately the fault which he reprobates so strongly in others . 
of Eusebius for the description and for the scenes of these tortures . 
He closes his narration by assuring us that these were the martyrdoms inflicted in Palestine , during the whole course of the persecution . 
But when he proceeds to mention his own journey into Egypt , his language insensibly becomes more cautious and moderate . 
Having thus provided a secure evasion , he commits the equivocal passage to his readers and translators justly conceiving that their piety would induce them to prefer the most favorable sense . 
There was perhaps some malice in the remark of Theodorus Metochita , that all who , like Eusebius , had been conversant with the Egyptians , delighted in an obscure and intricate style . 
! This calculation is made from the martyrs , of whom Eusebius speaks by name but he recognizes a much greater number . 
Thus the ninth and tenth chapters of his work are entitled , Of Antoninus , Zebinus , Germanus , and other martyrs of Peter the monk . 
of Asclepius the Maroionite , and other martyrs . 
This relates only to the martyrs in the royal household . 
has answered him in a peremptory manner Nobis constat Eusebium in historia infinitos passim martyres admisisse . 
quamvis revera paucorum nomina recensuerit . 
sub Antonino et Vero innumerabiles prope martyres per universum orbem enituisse affirmat . 
Severum persecutionem concitasse refert , in qua per omnes ubique locorum Ecclesias , ab athletis pro pietate certantibus , illustria confecta fuerunt martyria . 
Sic de Decii , sic de Valeriani , persecutionibus loquitur , quae an Dodwelli faveant conjectionibus judicet aequus lector . 
I will quote but one example . 
We find among the letters of St . 
secundum prae ceptum imperatoris , fame et siti necari , et reclusi sumus in duabus cellis , ta ut nos afficerent fame et siti et ignis vapore . 
G. When Palestine was divided into three , the praefecture of the East contained forty eight provinces . 
As the ancient distinctions of nations were long since abolished , the Romans distributed the provinces according to a general proportion of their extent and opulence . 
Ut gloriari possint nullam se innocentium poremisse , nam et ipse audivi aloquos gloriantes , quia administratio sua , in hac paris merit incruenta . 
de Rebus Belgicis , l . 
reduces the number of the Belgic martyrs to , . 
In learning and moderation Fra Paola was not inferior to Grotius . 
The priority of time gives some advantage to the evidence of the former , which he loses , on the other hand , by the distance of Venice from the Netherlands . 
Eusebius and the author of the Treatise de Mortibus Persecutorum . 
It is deeply to be regretted that the history of this period rest so much on the loose and , it must be admitted , by no means scrupulous authority of Eusebius . 
Ecclesiastical history is a solemn and melancholy lesson that the best , even the most sacred , cause will eventually the least departure from truth ! M. Chapter XVII Foundation Of Constantinople . 
Part I. Foundation Of Constantinople . 
Political System Constantine , And His Successors . 
The unfortunate Licinius was the last rival who opposed the greatness , and the last captive who adorned the triumph , of Constantine . 
He will describe the political institutions that gave strength and stability to the empire , before he proceeds to relate the wars and revolutions which hastened its decline . 
He observes that the peace of the Byzantines was frequently disturbed , and the extent of their territory contracted , by the inroads of the wild Thracians . 
The navigator Byzas , who was styled the son of Neptune , founded the city years before the Christian aera . 
His followers were drawn from Argos and Megara . 
Byzantium was afterwards rebuild and fortified by the Spartan general Pausanias . 
Ducange , Constantinopolis , l . 
If we survey Byzantium in the extent which it acquired with the august name of Constantinople , the figure of the Imperial city may be represented under that of an unequal triangle . 
The obtuse point , which advances towards the east and the shores of Asia , meets and repels the waves of the Thracian Bosphorus . 
The northern side of the city is bounded by the harbor and the southern is washed by the Propontis , or Sea of Marmara . 
The basis of the triangle is opposed to the west , and terminates the continent of Europe . 
But the admirable form and division of the circumjacent land and water cannot , without a more ample explanation , be clearly or sufficiently understood . 
The new castles of Europe and Asia are constructed , on either continent , upon the foundations of two celebrated temples , of Serapis and of Jupiter Urius . 
The old castles , a work of the Greek emperors , command the narrowest part of the channel in a place where the opposite banks advance within five hundred paces of each other . 
At a small distance from the old castles we discover the little town of Chrysopolis , or Scutari , which may almost be considered as the Asiatic suburb of Constantinople . 
The Bosphorus , as it begins to open into the Propontis , passes between Byzantium and Chalcedon . 
and by Gilles or Gyllius , a French traveller of the XVIth century . 
seems to have used his own eyes , and the learning of Gyllius . 
Add Von Hammer , Constantinopolis und der Bosphoros , vo . 
who supposes that the harpies were only locusts . 
The residence of Amycus was in Asia , between the old and the new castles , at a place called Laurus Insana . 
That of Phineus was in Europe , near the village of Mauromole and the Black Sea . 
The deception was occasioned by several pointed rocks , alternately sovered and abandoned by the waves . 
At present there are two small islands , one towards either shore that of Europe is distinguished by the column of Pompey . 
The ancients computed one hundred and twenty stadia , or fifteen Roman miles . 
They measured only from the new castles , but they carried the straits as far as the town of Chalcedon . 
Under the Greek empire these castles were used as state prisons , under the tremendous name of Lethe , or towers of oblivion . 
Darius engraved in Greek and Assyrian letters , on two marble columns , the names of his subject nations , and the amazing numbers of his land and sea forces . 
The Byzantines afterwards transported these columns into the city , and used them for the altars of their tutelar deities . 
Namque arctissimo inter Europam Asiamque divortio Byzantium in extrema Europa posuere Greci , quibus , Pythium Apollinem consulentibus ubi conderent urbem , redditum oraculum est , quaererent sedem oecerum terris adversam . 
Ea ambage Chalcedonii monstrabantur quod priores illuc advecti , praevisa locorum utilitate pejora legissent Tacit . 
The harbor of Constantinople , which may be considered as an arm of the Bosphorus , obtained , in a very remote period , the denomination of the Golden Horn . 
The curve which it describes might be compared to the horn of a stag , or as it should seem , with more propriety , to that of an ox . 
The epithet of golden was expressive of the riches which every wind wafted from the most distant countries into the secure and capacious port of Constantinople . 
From the mouth of the Lycus to that of the harbor , this arm of the Bosphorus is more than seven miles in length . 
The entrance is about five hundred yards broad , and a strong chain could be occasionally drawn across it , to guard the port and city from the attack of a hostile navy . 
Most of the antlers are now broken off or , to speak less figuratively , most of the recesses of the harbor are filled up . 
de Bosphoro Thracio , l . 
Procopius de Aedificiis , l . 
His description is confirmed by modern travellers . 
See Thevenot , part i . 
Niebuhr , Voyage d'Arabie , p . 
See Ducange , C. P. l . 
, and his Observations sur Villehardouin , p . 
The chain was drawn from the Acropolis near the modern Kiosk , to the tower of Galata and was supported at convenient distances by large wooden piles . 
The navigation from the issue of the Bosphorus to the entrance of the Hellespont is about one hundred and twenty miles . 
contracts the measure to small Greek miles . 
gives a good description of the Propontis , but contents himself with the vague expression of one day and one night's sail . 
talks of furlongs in length , as well as breadth we can only suppose some mistake of the press in the text of that judicious traveller . 
But the narrowest part of the channel is found to the northward of the old Turkish castles between the cities of Sestus and Abydus . 
It was here that the adventurous Leander braved the passage of the flood for the possession of his mistress . 
A sea contracted within such narrow limits may seem but ill to deserve the singular epithet of broad , which Homer , as well as Orpheus , has frequently bestowed on the Hellespont . 
The first of those promontories was occupied by Achilles with his invincible myrmidons , and the dauntless Ajax pitched his tents on the other . 
See an admirable dissertation of M. d'Anville upon the Hellespont or Dardanelles , in the Memoires tom . 
Yet even that ingenious geographer is too fond of supposing new , and perhaps imaginary measures , for the purpose of rendering ancient writers as accurate as himself . 
The stadia employed by Herodotus in the description of the Euxine , the Bosphorus , c . 
must undoubtedly be all of the same species but it seems impossible to reconcile them either with truth or with each other . 
The oblique distance between Sestus and Abydus was thirty stadia . 
The improbable tale of Hero and Leander is exposed by M. Mahudel , but is defended on the authority of poets and medals by M. de la Nauze . 
See the Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
I should much doubt whether the invaders have ever outnumbered the men of any country which they attacked . 
This great geographer believes that the ancients had a stadium of fifty one toises , and it is that which he applies to the walls of Babylon . 
Now , seven of these stadia are equal to about paces , stadia feet paces feet inches . 
G. See Rennell , Geog . 
Add Ukert , Geographie der Griechen und Romer , v . 
M. See Wood's Observations on Homer , p . 
He had visited the banks of the Hellespont and had read Strabo he ought to have consulted the Roman itineraries . 
two cities which were sixteen miles distant from each other ? Note Compare Walpole's Memoirs on Turkey , v . 
Clarke adopted Mr. Walpole's interpretation of the salt Hellespont . 
But the old interpretation is more graphic and Homeric . 
M. Demetrius of Scepsis wrote sixty books on thirty lines of Homer's catalogue . 
The XIIIth Book of Strabo is sufficient for our curiosity . 
The disposition of the ships , which were drawn upon dry land , and the posts of Ajax and Achilles , are very clearly described by Homer . 
Zosimus places the new city between Ilium and Alexandria , but this apparent difference may be reconciled by the large extent of its circumference . 
and Sardica by Zonaras , as the intended capital . 
They both suppose with very little probability , that the emperor , if he had not been prevented by a prodigy , would have repeated the mistake of the blind Chalcedonians . 
We are at present qualified to view the advantageous position of Constantinople which appears to have been formed by nature for the centre and capital of a great monarchy . 
See Basilica Of Constantinople Pocock's Description of the East , vol . 
His plan of the seven hills is clear and accurate . 
That traveller is seldom unsatisfactory . 
See Belon , Observations , c . 
Among a variety of different species , the Pelamides , a sort of Thunnies , were the most celebrated . 
We may learn from Polybius , Strabo , and Tacitus , that the profits of the fishery constituted the principal revenue of Byzantium . 
See the eloquent description of Busbequius , epistol . 
Est in Europa habet in conspectu Asiam , Egyptum . 
Africamque a dextra quae tametsi contiguae non sunt , maris tamen navigandique commoditate veluti junguntur . 
A sinistra vero Pontus est Euxinus , c . 
The prospect of beauty , of safety , and of wealth , united in a single spot , was sufficient to justify the choice of Constantine . 
I shall still advance , replied Constantine , till He , the invisible guide who marches before me , thinks proper to stop . 
Without presuming to investigate the nature or motives of this extraordinary conductor , we shall content ourselves with the more humble task of describing the extent and limits of Constantinople . 
Datur haec venia antiquitati , ut miscendo humana divinis , primordia urbium augustiora faciat . 
He says in one of his laws , pro commoditate urbis quam aeteras nomine , jubente Deo , donavimus . 
The Greeks , Theophanes , Cedrenus , and the author of the Alexandrian Chronicle , confine themselves to vague and general expressions . 
For a more particular account of the vision , we are obliged to have recourse to such Latin writers as William of Malmesbury . 
See Ducange , C. P. l . 
This incident , though borrowed from a suspected writer , is characteristic and probable . 
See in the Memoires de l'Academie , tom . 
, a dissertation of M. d'Anville on the extent of Constantinople . 
The necessity of protecting those suburbs from the incessant inroads of the barbarians engaged the younger Theodosius to surround his capital with an adequate and permanent enclosure of walls . 
miles for the circumference of his native city . 
Such an extent may not seem unworthy of an Imperial residence . 
Yet Constantinople must yield to Babylon and Thebes , to ancient Rome , to London , and even to Paris . 
He assigns the church of St . 
Anthony as the boundary on the side of the harbor . 
It is mentioned in Ducange , l . 
but I have tried , without success , to discover the exact place where it was situated . 
The new wall of Theodosius was constructed in the year . 
In it was thrown down by an earthquake , and rebuilt in three months by the diligence of the praefect Cyrus . 
The suburb of the Blanchernae was first taken into the city in the reign of Heraclius Ducange , Const . 
The measurement is expressed in the Notitia by , feet . 
It is reasonable to suppose that these were Greek feet , the proportion of which has been ingeniously determined by M. d'Anville . 
He compares the feet with Hashemite cubits , which in different writers are assigned for the heights of St . 
Each of these cubits was equal to French inches . 
walked in one hour and three quarters round two of the sides of the triangle , from the Kiosk of the Seraglio to the seven towers . 
D'Anville examines with care , and receives with confidence , this decisive testimony , which gives a circumference of ten or twelve miles . 
of thirty tour or thirty miles , without including Scutari , is a strange departure from his usual character . 
The sycae , or fig trees , formed the thirteenth region , and were very much embellished by Justinian . 
It has since borne the names of Pera and Galata . 
The etymology of the former is obvious that of the latter is unknown . 
, and Gyllius de Byzant . 
One hundred and eleven stadia , which may be translated into modern Greek miles each of seven stadia , or , sometimes only French toises . 
See D'Anville , Mesures Itineraires , p . 
, with his Description de l'Egypte , p . 
If we divide Constantinople and Paris into equal squares of French toises , the former contains , and the latter , of those divisions . 
Chapter XVII Foundation Of Constantinople . 
By his commands the cities of Greece and Asia were despoiled of their most valuable ornaments . 
Six hundred centenaries , or sixty thousand pounds' weight of gold . 
This sum is taken from Codinus , Antiquit . 
but unless that contemptible author had derived his information from some purer sources , he would probably have been unacquainted with so obsolete a mode of reckoning . 
For the forests of the Black Sea , consult Tournefort , Lettre XVI . 
for the marble quarries of Proconnesus , see Strabo , l . 
The latter had already furnished the materials of the stately buildings of Cyzicus . 
This law is dated in the year , and was addressed to the praefect of Italy , whose jurisdiction extended over Africa . 
The commentary of Godefroy on the whole title well deserves to be consulted . 
Constantinopolis dedicatur poene omnium urbium nuditate . 
The author of the Antiquitat . 
enumerates Rome , Sicily , Antioch , Athens , and a long list of other cities . 
The provinces of Greece and Asia Minor may be supposed to have yielded the richest booty . 
He describes the statue , or rather bust , of Homer with a degree of taste which plainly indicates that Cadrenus copied the style of a more fortunate age . 
During the siege of Byzantium , the conqueror had pitched his tent on the commanding eminence of the second hill . 
To perpetuate the memory of his success , he chose the same advantageous position for the principal Forum which appears to have been of a circular , or rather elliptical form . 
On the summit of the pillar , above one hundred and twenty feet from the ground , stood the colossal statue of Apollo . 
It was a bronze , had been transported either from Athens or from a town of Phrygia , and was supposed to be the work of Phidias . 
The Circus , or Hippodrome , was a stately building about four hundred paces in length , and one hundred in breadth . 
Their triple heads had once supported the golden tripod which , after the defeat of Xerxes , was consecrated in the temple of Delphi by the victorious Greeks . 
But we should deviate from the design of this history , if we attempted minutely to describe the different buildings or quarters of the city . 
Even the last of those writers seems to confound the Forum of Constantine with the Augusteum , or court of the palace . 
I am not satisfied whether I have properly distinguished what belongs to the one and the other . 
The most tolerable account of this column is given by Pocock . 
Description of the East , vol . 
But it is still in many instances perplexed and unsatisfactory . 
, and his notes ad Alexiad . 
The statue of Constantine or Apollo was thrown down under the reign of Alexius Comnenus . 
Constantine , with singular shamelessness , placed his own statue with the attributes of Apollo and Christ . 
He substituted the nails of the Passion for the rays of the sun . 
Such is the direct testimony of the author of the Antiquit . 
Constantine was replaced by the great and religious Julian , Julian , by Theodosius . 
A. D. , the key stone was loosened by an earthquake . 
The statue fell in the reign of Alexius Comnenus , and was replaced by the cross . 
The Palladium was said to be buried under the pillar . 
Von Hammer , Constantinopolis und der Bosporos , i . 
computes the Atmeidan at four hundred paces . 
If he means geometrical paces of five feet each , it was three hundred toises in length , about forty more than the great circus of Rome . 
See D'Anville , Mesures Itineraires , p . 
The guardians of the most holy relics would rejoice if they were able to produce such a chain of evidence as may be alleged on this occasion . 
The original consecration of the tripod and pillar in the temple of Delphi may be proved from Herodotus and Pausanias . 
Mahomet the Second broke the under jaw of one of the serpents with a stroke of his battle axe Thevenot , l . 
Note See note , ch . 
Clarke's rejection of Thevenot's authority . 
Von Hammer , however , repeats the story of Thevenot without questioning its authenticity . 
G. The Latin name Cochlea was adopted by the Greeks , and very frequently occurs in the Byzantine history . 
There are three topographical points which indicate the situation of the palace . 
The staircase which connected it with the Hippodrome or Atmeidan . 
A small artificial port on the Propontis , from whence there was an easy ascent , by a flight of marble steps , to the gardens of the palace . 
The Augusteum was a spacious court , one side of which was occupied by the front of the palace , and another by the church of St . 
Zeuxippus was an epithet of Jupiter , and the baths were a part of old Byzantium . 
The difficulty of assigning their true situation has not been felt by Ducange . 
History seems to connect them with St . 
Sophia and the palace but the original plan inserted in Banduri places them on the other side of the city , near the harbor . 
For their beauties , see Chron . 
, and Gyllius de Byzant . 
composed inscriptions in verse for each of the statues . 
He was a Theban poet in genius as well as in birth Baeotum in crasso jurares aere natum . 
Note Yet , for his age , the description of the statues of Hecuba and of Homer are by no means without merit . 
Rome only reckoned large houses , domus but the word must have had a more dignified signification . 
No insulae are mentioned at Constantinople . 
The old capital consisted of streets , the new of . 
The populousness of his favored city was the next and most serious object of the attention of its founder . 
The invitations of a master are scarcely to be distinguished from commands and the liberality of the emperor obtained a ready and cheerful obedience . 
But these encouragements and obligations soon became superfluous , and were gradually abolished . 
The most wealthy of the provincials will be attracted by the powerful motives of interest and duty , of amusement and curiosity . 
In less than a century , Constantinople disputed with Rome itself the preeminence of riches and numbers . 
Liutprand , Legatio ad Imp . 
The modern Greeks have strangely disfigured the antiquities of Constantinople . 
Montesquieu , Grandeur et Decadence des Romains , c . 
has evidently mistaken the nature of these estates . 
describes the moles that were pushed forwards into the sea , they consisted of the famous Puzzolan sand , which hardens in the water . 
The frequent and regular distributions of wine and oil , of corn or bread , of money or provisions , had almost exempted the poorest citizens of Rome from the necessity of labor . 
Some other regulations of this emperor are less liable to blame , but they are less deserving of notice . 
The venerable parent still maintained the legal and acknowledged supremacy , which was due to her age , her dignity , and to the remembrance of her former greatness . 
It appears by Socrates , l . 
Note At Rome the poorer citizens who received these gratuities were inscribed in a register they had only a personal right . 
Constantine attached the right to the houses in his new capital , to engage the lower classes of the people to build their houses with expedition . 
See the beautiful complaint of Rome in the poem of Claudian de Bell . 
Cum subiit par Roma mihi , divisaque sumsit Aequales aurora togas Aegyptia rura In partem cessere novam . 
This was also at the expense of Rome . 
The emperor ordered that the fleet of Alexandria should transport to Constantinople the grain of Egypt which it carried before to Rome this grain supplied Rome during four months of the year . 
Claudian has described with force the famine occasioned by this measure Haec nobis , haec ante dabas nunc pabula tantum Roma precor miserere tuae pater optime , gentis Extremam defende famem . 
G. It was scarcely this measure . 
Gildo had cut off the African as well as the Egyptian supplies . 
Senatum constituit secundi ordinis Claros vocavit . 
The senators of old Rome were styled Clarissimi . 
See a curious note of Valesius ad Ammian . 
has shown that this epistle could not relate to Constantinople . 
Might we not read , instead of the celebrated name of the obscure but more probable word Bisanthe or Rhoedestus , now Rhodosto , was a small maritime city of Thrace . 
is long , but perplexed nor indeed is it easy to ascertain in what the Jus Italicum could consist , after the freedom of the city had been communicated to the whole empire . 
which by most writers is referred with out foundation to the personal condition of the citizens , properly related to the city as a whole , and contained two parts . 
and its capability of mancipation , usucaption , and vindication moreover , as an inseparable consequence of this , exemption from land tax . 
Then , secondly , a free constitution in the Italian form , with Duumvirs , Quinquennales . 
and Aediles , and especially with Jurisdiction . 
Savigny , Geschichte des Rom . 
celebrates Constantinople as not less superior to all other cities than she was inferior to Rome itself . 
justifies this language by several parallel and contemporary instances . 
But while they displayed the vigor and freshness of youth , the founder prepared to celebrate the dedication of his city . 
The guards , carrying white tapers , and clothed in their richest apparel , accompanied the solemn procession as it moved through the Hippodrome . 
When it was opposite to the throne of the reigning emperor , he rose from his seat , and with grateful reverence adored the memory of his predecessor . 
At the festival of the dedication , an edict , engraved on a column of marble , bestowed the title of Second or New Rome on the city of Constantine . 
But the name of Constantinople has prevailed over that honorable epithet and after the revolution of fourteen centuries , still perpetuates the fame of its author . 
He connects those dates with several characteristic epochs , but they contradict each other the authority of Codinus is of little weight , and the space which he assigns must appear insufficient . 
which form a period from the year to the year . 
Modern critics are divided concerning this point of chronology and their different sentiments are very accurately described by Tillemont , Hist . 
Cedrenus and Zonaras , faithful to the mode of superstition which prevailed in their own times , assure us that Constantinople was consecrated to the virgin Mother of God . 
The earliest and most complete account of this extraordinary ceremony may be found in the Alexandrian Chronicle , p . 
Velut ipsius Romae filiam , is the expression of Augustin . 
The name of Constantinople is extant on the medals of Constantine . 
Yet the original name is still preserved , . 
By the nations of Europe . 
By the Arabs , whose writings are diffused over the wide extent of their conquests in Asia and Africa . 
See D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
By the more learned Turks , and by the emperor himself in his public mandates Cantemir's History of the Othman Empire , p . 
The foundation of a new capital is naturally connected with the establishment of a new form of civil and military administration . 
The Theodosian code was promulgated A. D. . 
See the Prolegomena of Godefroy , c . 
The Notitia Dignitatum Imperii is a description of all the offices in the court and the state , of the legions , c . 
with this single difference , that our almanacs name the persons in office , the Notitia only the offices . 
It is of the time of the emperor Theodosius II . 
, that is to say , of the fifth century , when the empire was divided into the Eastern and Western . 
It is probable that it was not made for the first time , and that descriptions of the same kind existed before . 
G. Pancirolus , in his elaborate Commentary , assigns to the Notitia a date almost similar to that of the Theodosian Code but his proofs , or rather conjectures , are extremely feeble . 
See Histoire des Anciens Peuples de l'Europe , tom . 
Chapter XVII Foundation Of Constantinople . 
The manly pride of the Romans , content with substantial power , had left to the vanity of the East the forms and ceremonies of ostentatious greatness . 
apud quos vis Imperii valet , inania transmittuntur . 
The gradation from the style of freedom and simplicity , to that of form and servitude , may be traced in the Epistles of Cicero , of Pliny , and of Symmachus . 
Consult the Notitia Dignitatum at the end of the Theodosian code , tom . 
, has given a lucid view of the dignities and duties of the officers in the Imperial court . 
M. Pancirolus ad Notitiam utriusque Imperii , p . 
But his explanations are obscure , and he does not sufficiently distinguish the painted emblems from the effective ensigns of office . 
All the magistrates of sufficient importance to find a place in the general state of the empire , were accurately divided into three classes . 
The Spectabiles , or Respectable . 
the Clarissimi whom we may translate by the word Honorable . 
It was communicated only , I. To the consuls and patricians II . 
To the Praetorian praefects , with the praefects of Rome and Constantinople III . 
To the masters general of the cavalry and the infantry and IV . 
To the seven ministers of the palace , who exercised their sacred functions about the person of the emperor . 
Among those illustrious magistrates who were esteemed coordinate with each other , the seniority of appointment gave place to the union of dignities . 
By the expedient of honorary codicils , the emperors , who were fond of multiplying their favors , might sometimes gratify the vanity , though not the ambition , of impatient courtiers . 
In the Pandects , which may be referred to the reigns of the Antonines , Clarissimus is the ordinary and legal title of a senator . 
I have not taken any notice of the two inferior ranks , Prefectissimus and Egregius , which were given to many persons who were not raised to the senatorial dignity . 
The rules of precedency are ascertained with the most minute accuracy by the emperors , and illustrated with equal prolixity by their learned interpreter . 
I. As long as the Roman consuls were the first magistrates of a free state , they derived their right to power from the choice of the people . 
As long as the emperors condescended to disguise the servitude which they imposed , the consuls were still elected by the real or apparent suffrage of the senate . 
In the epistles which the emperor addressed to the two consuls elect , it was declared , that they were created by his sole authority . 
with somewhat more freedom and ingenuity . 
Cum de Consulibus in annum creandis , solus mecum volutarem . 
te Consulem et designavi , et declaravi , et priorem nuncupavi are some of the expressions employed by the emperor Gratian to his preceptor , the poet Ausonius . 
dentes Qui secti ferro in tabulas auroque micantes , Inscripti rutilum coelato Consule nomen Per proceres et vulgus eant . 
Montfaucon has represented some of these tablets or dypticks see Supplement a l'Antiquite expliquee , tom . 
Consule laetatur post plurima seculo viso Pallanteus apex agnoscunt rostra curules Auditas quondam proavis desuetaque cingit Regius auratis Fora fascibus Ulpia lictor . 
See the Chronologie de Tillemonte , tom . 
On the morning of the first of January , the consuls assumed the ensigns of their dignity . 
Their dress was a robe of purple , embroidered in silk and gold , and sometimes ornamented with costly gems . 
one hundred and sixty thousand pounds sterling and if so heavy an expense surpassed the faculties or the inclinations of the magistrates themselves , the sum was supplied from the Imperial treasury . 
They no longer presided in the national councils they no longer executed the resolutions of peace or war . 
were of little moment and their names served only as the legal date of the year in which they had filled the chair of Marius and of Cicero . 
The title of consul was still the most splendid object of ambition , the noblest reward of virtue and loyalty . 
et Olybrii , , c . 
though in the latter it is not easy to separate the ornaments of the emperor from those of the consul . 
Ausonius received from the liberality of Gratian a vestis palmata , or robe of state , in which the figure of the emperor Constantius was embroidered . 
Cernis et armorum proceres legumque potentes Patricios sumunt habitus et more Gabino Discolor incedit legio , positisque parumper Bellorum signis , sequitur vexilla Quirini . 
Lictori cedunt aquilae , ridetque togatus Miles , et in mediis effulget curia castris . 
Auspice mox laeto sonuit clamore tribunal Te fastos ineunte quater solemnia ludit Omina libertas deductum Vindice morem Lex servat , famulusque jugo laxatus herili Ducitur , et grato remeat securior ictu . 
describes , in a lively and fanciful manner , the various games of the circus , the theatre , and the amphitheatre , exhibited by the new consul . 
The sanguinary combats of gladiators had already been prohibited . 
In Consulatu honos sine labore suscipitur . 
pronounced by Julian in the servile court of Constantius . 
But these distinctions , so incompatible with the spirit of a free people , were removed , after a long struggle , by the persevering efforts of the Tribunes . 
The most active and successful of the Plebeians accumulated wealth , aspired to honors , deserved triumphs , contracted alliances , and , after some generations , assumed the pride of ancient nobility . 
were rapidly swept away by the rage of tyrants , by frequent revolutions , by the change of manners , and by the intermixture of nations . 
Little more was left when Constantine ascended the throne , than a vague and imperfect tradition , that the Patricians had once been the first of the Romans . 
He revived , indeed , the title of Patricians , but he revived it as a personal , not as an hereditary distinction . 
Intermarriages between the Patricians and Plebeians were prohibited by the laws of the XII Tables and the uniform operations of human nature may attest that the custom survived the law . 
the pride of family urged by the consul , and the rights of mankind asserted by the tribune Canuleius . 
In the year of Rome , very few remained , not only of the old Patrician families , but even of those which had been created by Caesar and Augustus . 
was degraded so low that his father , who exercised the trade of a charcoal merchant , left him only teu slaves , and somewhat less than three hundred pounds sterling . 
The family was saved from oblivion by the merit of the son . 
The virtues of Agricola , who was created a Patrician by the emperor Vespasian , reflected honor on that ancient order but his ancestors had not any claim beyond an Equestrian nobility . 
that Vespasian created at once a thousand Patrician families . 
But this extravagant number is too much even for the whole Senatorial order . 
unless we should include all the Roman knights who were distinguished by the permission of wearing the laticlave . 
The fortunes of the Praetorian praefects were essentially different from those of the consuls and Patricians . 
The latter saw their ancient greatness evaporate in a vain title . 
The former , rising by degrees from the most humble condition , were invested with the civil and military administration of the Roman world . 
When they were no longer responsible for the safety of the emperor's person , they resigned the jurisdiction which they had hitherto claimed and exercised over all the departments of the palace . 
The important provinces of Pannonia , Dacia , Macedonia , and Greece , once acknowledged the authority of the praefect of Illyricum . 
The coin , the highways , the posts , the granaries , the manufactures , whatever could interest the public prosperity , was moderated by the authority of the Praetorian praefects . 
As the immediate representatives of the Imperial majesty , they were empowered to explain , to enforce , and on some occasions to modify , the general edicts by their discretionary proclamations . 
They watched over the conduct of the provincial governors , removed the negligent , and inflicted punishments on the guilty . 
His appointments were suitable to his dignity and if avarice was his ruling passion , he enjoyed frequent opportunities of collecting a rich harvest of fees , of presents , and of perquisites . 
Though the emperors no longer dreaded the ambition of their praefects , they were attentive to counterbalance the power of this great office by the uncertainty and shortness of its duration . 
See a law of Constantine himself . 
A praefectis autem praetorio provocare , non sinimus . 
who admits this law as a fundamental principle of jurisprudence , compares the Praetorian praefects to the masters of the horse of the ancient dictators . 
When Justinian , in the exhausted condition of the empire , instituted a Praetorian praefect for Africa , he allowed him a salary of one hundred pounds of gold . 
From those authors , Dr . 
has deduced a very distinct abridgment of the state of the Roman empire From their superior importance and dignity , Rome and Constantinople were alone excepted from the jurisdiction of the Praetorian praefects . 
They received appeals from the distance of one hundred miles and it was allowed as a principle of jurisprudence , that all municipal authority was derived from them alone . 
In the discharge of his laborious employment , the governor of Rome was assisted by fifteen officers , some of whom had been originally his equals , or even his superiors . 
About thirty years after the foundation of Constantinople , a similar magistrate was created in that rising metropolis , for the same uses and with the same powers . 
A perfect equality was established between the dignity of the two municipal , and that of the four Praetorian praefects . 
describes the prerogatives of the praefect of the city as they were established in his own time . 
The fame of Messalla has been scarcely equal to his merit . 
In the earliest youth he was recommended by Cicero to the friendship of Brutus . 
The triumph of Messalla was justified by the conquest of Aquitain . 
As an orator , he disputed the palm of eloquence with Cicero himself . 
Messalla cultivated every muse , and was the patron of every man of genius . 
He spent his evenings in philosophic conversation with Horace assumed his place at table between Delia and Tibullus and amused his leisure by encouraging the poetical talents of young Ovid . 
Incivilem esse potestatem contestans , says the translator of Eusebius . 
Tacitus expresses the same idea in other words quasi nescius exercendi . 
See Lipsius , Excursus D. ad lib . 
Juris Civilis secund ordinem Pandect i . 
See , likewise , Spanheim de Usu . 
In the year , Marcian published a law , that three citizens should be annually created Praetors of Constantinople by the choice of the senate , but with their own consent . 
Quidquid igitur intra urbem admittitur , ad P. U. videtur pertinere sed et siquid intra contesimum milliarium . 
is declared to precede and command all city magistrates sine injuria ac detrimento honoris alieni . 
Chapter XVII Foundation Of Constantinople . 
Those who , in the imperial hierarchy , were distinguished by the title of Respectable , formed an intermediate class between the illustrious praefects , and the honorable magistrates of the provinces . 
But the civil government of the empire was distributed into thirteen great Dioceses , each of which equalled the just measure of a powerful kingdom . 
Eunapius affirms , that the proconsul of Asia was independent of the praefect which must , however , be understood with some allowance . 
the jurisdiction of the vice praefect he most assuredly disclaimed . 
The proconsul of Africa had four hundred apparitors and they all received large salaries , either from the treasury or the province See Pancirol . 
In Italy there was likewise the Vicar of Rome . 
It has been much disputed whether his jurisdiction measured one hundred miles from the city , or whether it stretched over the ten thousand provinces of Italy . 
As the spirit of jealousy and ostentation prevailed in the councils of the emperors , they proceeded with anxious diligence to divide the substance and to multiply the titles of power . 
Of these , three were governed by proconsuls , thirty seven by consulars , five by correctors , and seventy one by presidents . 
The appellations of these magistrates were different they ranked in successive order , the ensigns of and their situation , from accidental circumstances , might be more or less agreeable or advantageous . 
It may be sufficient for the historian to select two singular and salutary provisions , intended to restrain the abuse of authority . 
For the preservation of peace and order , the governors of the provinces were armed with the sword of justice . 
They inflicted corporal punishments , and they exercised , in capital offences , the power of life and death . 
But they were not authorized to indulge the condemned criminal with the choice of his own execution , or to pronounce a sentence of the mildest and most honorable kind of exile . 
These prerogatives were reserved to the praefects , who alone could impose the heavy fine of fifty pounds of gold their vicegerents were confined to the trifling weight of a few ounces . 
This distinction , which seems to grant the larger , while it denies the smaller degree of authority , was founded on a very rational motive . 
The smaller degree was infinitely more liable to abuse . 
The continuance , and perhaps the impunity , of these crimes , is attested by the repetition of impotent laws and ineffectual menaces . 
The presidents , or consulars , could impose only two ounces the vice praefects , three the proconsuls , count of the east , and praefect of Egypt , six . 
Ut nulli patriae suae administratio sine speciali principis permissu permittatur . 
This law was first enacted by the emperor Marcus , after the rebellion of Cassius . 
The same regulation is observed in China , with equal strictness , and with equal effect . 
In jure continetur , ne quis in administratione constitutus aliquid compararet . 
From this prohibition , which is extended to the meanest officers of the governor , they except only clothes and provisions . 
The purchase within five years may be recovered after which on information , it devolves to the treasury . 
Cessent rapaces jam nunc officialium manus cessent , inquam nam si moniti non cessaverint , gladiis praecidentur , c . 
Zeno enacted that all governors should remain in the province , to answer any accusations , fifty days after the expiration of their power . 
All the civil magistrates were drawn from the profession of the law . 
Some of them procured admittance into families for the purpose of fomenting differences , of encouraging suits , and of preparing a harvest of gain for themselves or their brethren . 
The splendid and popular class was composed of the advocates , who filled the Forum with the sound of their turgid and loquacious rhetoric . 
As in a former period I have traced the civil and military promotion of Pertinax , I shall here insert the civil honors of Mallius Theodorus . 
He was distinguished by his eloquence , while he pleaded as an advocate in the court of the Praetorian praefect . 
He governed one of the provinces of Africa , either as president or consular , and deserved , by his administration , the honor of a brass statue . 
He was appointed vicar , or vice praefect , of Macedonia . 
Count of the sacred largesses . 
Praetorian praefect of the Gauls whilst he might yet be represented as a young man . 
employed in the study of the Grecian philosophy he was named Praetorian praefect of Italy , in the year . 
In the year , Mallius was appointed a second time Praetorian praefect of Italy . 
Asterius apud Photium , p . 
in which he paints the manners of contemporary lawyers , affords a strange mixture of sound sense , false rhetoric , and extravagant satire . 
supports the historian by similar complaints and authentic facts . 
In the fourth century , many camels might have been laden with law books . 
In the system of policy introduced by Augustus , the governors , those at least of the Imperial provinces , were invested with the full powers of the sovereign himself . 
But it should be recollected , that the second of those appellations is only a corruption of the Latin word , which was indiscriminately applied to any military chief . 
About the same time that Constantine gave a legal sanction to the ecclesiastical order , he instituted in the Roman empire the nice balance of the civil and the military powers . 
The emulation , and sometimes the discord , which reigned between two professions of opposite interests and incompatible manners , was productive of beneficial and of pernicious consequences . 
It was seldom to be expected that the general and the civil governor of a province should either conspire for the disturbance , or should unite for the service , of their country . 
The divided administration which had been formed by Constantine , relaxed the vigor of the state , while it secured the tranquillity of the monarch . 
See a very splendid example in the life of Agricola , particularly c . 
The lieutenant of Britain was intrusted with the same powers which Cicero , proconsul of Cilicia , had exercised in the name of the senate and people . 
Before the end of the reign of Constantius , the magistri militum were already increased to four . 
Though the military counts and dukes are frequently mentioned , both in history and the codes , we must have recourse to the Notitia for the exact knowledge of their number and stations . 
For the institution , rank , privileges , c . 
, of the counts in general see Cod . 
, with the commentary of Godefroy . 
The memory of Constantine has been deservedly censured for another innovation , which corrupted military discipline and prepared the ruin of the empire . 
The nineteen years which preceded his final victory over Licinius , had been a period of license and intestine war . 
The most flourishing cities were oppressed by the intolerable weight of quarters . 
The soldiers insensibly forgot the virtues of their profession , and contracted only the vices of civil life . 
They were either degraded by the industry of mechanic trades , or enervated by the luxury of baths and theatres . 
The distinction between the two classes of Roman troops , is very darkly expressed in the historians , the laws , and the Notitia . 
Consult , however , the copious paratitlon , or abstract , which Godefroy has drawn up of the seventh book , de Re Militari , of the Theodosian Code , l . 
Ferox erat in suos miles et rapax , ignavus vero in hostes et fractus . 
He observes , that they loved downy beds and houses of marble and that their cups were heavier than their swords . 
of the World , vol . 
That learned historian , who is not sufficiently known , labors to justify the character and policy of Constantine . 
The remainder of their troops was distributed into several hundred cohorts of infantry , and squadrons of cavalry . 
Their arms , and titles , and ensigns , were calculated to inspire terror , and to display the variety of nations who marched under the Imperial standard . 
An effort so prodigious surpassed the wants of a more ancient , and the faculties of a later , period . 
that the desperate sallies of two Gallic legions were like a handful of water thrown on a great conflagration . 
Pancirolus ad Notitiam , p . 
Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Romana acies unius prope formae erat et hominum et armorum genere . 
Regia acies varia magis multis gentibus dissimilitudine armorum auxiliorumque erat . 
Flaminius , even before the event , had compared the army of Antiochus to a supper in which the flesh of one vile animal was diversified by the skill of the cooks . 
See the Life of Flaminius in Plutarch . 
In the various states of society , armies are recruited from very different motives . 
The sum of forty two pieces of gold , to which it was reduced ascertains the exorbitant price of volunteers , and the reluctance with which the government admitted of this alterative . 
fixes the standard at five feet seven inches , about five feet four inches and a half , English measure . 
It had formerly been five feet ten inches , and in the best corps , six Roman feet . 
Sed tunc erat amplior multitude se et plures sequebantur militiam armatam . 
Vegetius de Re Militari l . 
See the two titles , De Veteranis and De Filiis Veteranorum , in the seventh book of the Theodosian Code . 
The age at which their military service was required , varied from twenty five to sixteen . 
If the sons of the veterans appeared with a horse , they had a right to serve in the cavalry two horses gave them some valuable privileges Cod . 
the same emperor Valens sometimes required eighty pieces of gold for a recruit . 
In the following law it is faintly expressed , that slaves shall not be admitted inter optimas lectissimorum militum turmas . 
The person and property of a Roman knight , who had mutilated his two sons , were sold at public auction by order of Augustus . 
The moderation of that artful usurper proves , that this example of severity was justified by the spirit of the times . 
Ammianus makes a distinction between the effeminate Italians and the hardy Gauls . 
Yet only years afterwards , Valentinian , in a law addressed to the praefect of Gaul , is obliged to enact that these cowardly deserters shall be burnt alive . 
) Their numbers in Illyricum were so considerable , that the province complained of a scarcity of recruits . 
Murcidus is found in Plautus and Festus , to denote a lazy and cowardly person , who , according to Arnobius and Augustin , was under the immediate protection of the goddess Murcia . 
From this particular instance of cowardice , murcare is used as synonymous to mutilare , by the writers of the middle Latinity . 
See Linder brogius and Valesius ad Ammian . 
Chapter XVII Foundation Of Constantinople . 
Part V. The introduction of Barbarians into the Roman armies became every day more universal , more necessary , and more fatal . 
As they freely mingled with the subjects of the empire , they gradually learned to despise their manners , and to imitate their arts . 
Malarichus adhibitis Francis quorum ea tempestate in palatio multitudo florebat , erectius jam loquebatur tumultuabaturque . 
Barbaros omnium primus , ad usque fasces auxerat et trabeas consulares . 
and Aurelius Victor seem to confirm the truth of this assertion yet in the thirty two consular Fasti of the reign of Constantine cannot discover the name of a single Barbarian . 
I should therefore interpret the liberality of that prince as relative to the ornaments rather than to the office , of the consulship . 
The principal administration of public affairs was committed to the diligence and abilities of the master of the offices . 
The correspondence between the prince and his subjects was managed by the four scrinia , or offices of this minister of state . 
The first was appropriated to memorials , the second to epistles , the third to petitions , and the fourth to papers and orders of a miscellaneous kind . 
His mind was more seriously engaged by the general direction of the posts and arsenals of the empire . 
In the course of nine centuries , the office of quaestor had experienced a very singular revolution . 
The actual account employed several hundred persons , distributed into eleven different offices , which were artfully contrived to examine and control their respective operations . 
These sacred animals , destined for the service of the palace and the Imperial games , were protected by the laws from the profanation of a vulgar master . 
The chosen bands of cavalry and infantry , which guarded the person of the emperor , were under the immediate command of the two counts of the domestics . 
From the seven schools two companies of horse and foot were selected , of the protectors , whose advantageous station was the hope and reward of the most deserving soldiers . 
They mounted guard in the interior apartments , and were occasionally despatched into the provinces , to execute with celerity and vigor the orders of their master . 
The counts of the domestics had succeeded to the office of the Praetorian praefects like the praefects , they aspired from the service of the palace to the command of armies . 
has very accurately explained the functions of the master of the offices , and the constitution of the subordinate scrinia . 
But this obscure point of antiquity is contested by other writers . 
insinuates , that if the dictator Caesar once created forty , it was only to facilitate the payment of an immense debt of gratitude . 
Yet the augmentation which he made of praetors subsisted under the succeeding reigns . 
engaged Augustus to remove them from the management of the treasury and though they were restored by Claudius , they seem to have been finally dismissed by Nero . 
or , as they were afterwards called , rationales . 
But in the provinces of the senate we may still discover a series of quaestors till the reign of Marcus Antoninus . 
that under the government of the house of Severus , their provincial administration was abolished and in the subsequent troubles , the annual or triennial elections of quaestors must have naturally ceased . 
Cum patris nomine et epistolas ipse dictaret , et edicta conscrib eret , orationesque in senatu recitaret , etiam quaestoris vice . 
The office must have acquired new dignity , which was occasionally executed by the heir apparent of the empire . 
Trajan intrusted the same care to Hadrian , his quaestor and cousin . 
Terris edicta daturus Supplicibus responsa . 
Oracula regis Eloquio crevere tuo nec dignius unquam Majestas meminit sese Romana locutam . 
See likewise Symmachus and Cassiodorus . 
In the departments of the two counts of the treasury , the eastern part of the Notitia happens to be very defective . 
It may be observed , that we had a treasury chest in London , and a gyneceum or manufacture at Winchester . 
But Britain was not thought worthy either of a mint or of an arsenal . 
Gaul alone possessed three of the former , and eight of the latter . 
, and Godefroy ad loc . 
The other temple of Comana , in Pontus , was a colony from that of Cappadocia , l . 
conjectures that the deity adored in both Comanas was Beltis , the Venus of the east , the goddess of generation a very different being indeed from the goddess of war . 
Godefroy has collected every circumstance of antiquity relative to the Cappadocian horses . 
One of the finest breeds , the Palmatian , was the forfeiture of a rebel , whose estate lay about sixteen miles from Tyana , near the great road between Constantinople and Antioch . 
subjected the province of the count of Cappadocia to the immediate authority of the favorite eunuch , who presided over the sacred bed chamber . 
The appearance of these military domestics is described in the Latin poem of Corippus , de Laudibus Justin . 
, of the Appendix Hist . 
Ammianus Marcellinus , who served so many years , obtained only the rank of a protector . 
The first ten among these honorable soldiers were Clarissimi . 
The perpetual intercourse between the court and the provinces was facilitated by the construction of roads and the institution of posts . 
But these beneficial establishments were accidentally connected with a pernicious and intolerable abuse . 
The ordinary administration was conducted by those methods which extreme necessity can alone palliate and the defects of evidence were diligently supplied by the use of torture . 
Brisson , de Regno Persico , l . 
The emperors adopted with pleasure this Persian metaphor . 
For the Agentes in Rebus , see Ammian . 
, with the curious annotations of Valesius . 
Among the passages collected in the Commentary of Godefroy , the most remarkable is one from Libanius , in his discourse concerning the death of Julian . 
The deceitful and dangerous experiment of the criminal quaestion , as it is emphatically styled , was admitted , rather than approved , in the jurisprudence of the Romans . 
The conduct of the provincial magistrates was not , however , regulated by the practice of the city , or the strict maxims of the civilians . 
contain the sentiments of the most celebrated civilians on the subject of torture . 
They strictly confine it to slaves and Ulpian himself is ready to acknowledge that Res est fragilis , et periculosa , et quae veritatem fallat . 
was the only person tortured the rest were intacti tormentis . 
It would be superfluous to add a weaker , and it would be difficult to find a stronger , example . 
We may learn from the trial of Philotas the practice of the Macedonians . 
has collected these exemptions into one view . 
seems to have been adapted to the court of Caracalla , rather than to that of Alexander Severus . 
See the Codes of Theodosius and ad leg . 
majestatis crimine omnibus aequa est conditio . 
Montesquieu , Esprit des Loix , l . 
has seen this importance with some degree of perplexity . 
Chapter XVII Foundation Of Constantinople . 
The name and use of the indictions , which serve to ascertain the chronology of the middle ages , were derived from the regular practice of the Roman tributes . 
Whatever was honorable or important in the administration of the revenue , was committed to the wisdom of the praefects , and their provincia . 
was the object of ordinary taxation and every new purchaser contracted the obligations of the former proprietor . 
A large portion of the tribute was paid in money and of the current coin of the empire , gold alone could be legally accepted . 
The remainder of the taxes , according to the proportions determined by the annual indiction , was furnished in a manner still more direct , and still more oppressive . 
See l'Art de Verifier les Dates , p . 
de la Diplomatique , tom . 
two accurate treatises , which come from the workshop of the Benedictines . 
He would not have ventured while only Caesar , and under the necessity of courting popular favor , to establish such an odious impost . 
Aurelius Victor and Lactantius agree in designating Diocletian as the author of this despotic institution . 
Note The Decurions were charged with assessing , according to the census of property prepared by the tabularii , the payment due from each proprietor . 
The Decurionate was the ruin of all the rich . 
M. Habemus enim et hominum numerum qui delati sunt , et agrun modum . 
Although this law is not without its studied obscurity , it is , however clear enough to prove the minuteness of the inquisition , and the disproportion of the penalty . 
The astonishment of Pliny would have ceased . 
Equidem miror P. R. victis gentibus argentum semper imperitasse non aurum . 
In return , they were themselves exempt , altogether , or in part , from the indiction and other imposts . 
They had certain privileges particular regulations determined their rights and obligations . 
The transports by land were made in the same manner , by the intervention of a privileged company called Bastaga the members were called Bastagarii Cod . 
might instruct themselves in all the various arts of oppression , with regard to the weight , the price , the quality , and the carriage . 
The avarice of an unlettered governor would supply the ignorance of precept or precedent . 
, published the th of March , A. D. , by the emperor Honorius , only two months after the death of his father , Theodosius . 
He speaks of , Roman jugera , which I have reduced to the English measure . 
The jugerum contained , square Roman feet . 
Either from design or from accident , the mode of assessment seemed to unite the substance of a land tax with the forms of a capitation . 
The returns which were sent of every province or district , expressed the number of tributary subjects , and the amount of the public impositions . 
The rapacious ministers of Constantius had exhausted the wealth of Gaul , by exacting twenty five pieces of gold for the annual tribute of every head . 
The humane policy of his successor reduced the capitation to seven pieces . 
An attempt to explain them may perhaps reflect some light on the interesting subject of the finances of the declining empire . 
anhelantibus extrema penuria Gallis , hinc maxime claret , quod primitus partes eas ingressus , pro capitibusingulis tributi nomine vicenos quinos aureos reperit flagitari discedens vero septenos tantum numera universa complentes . 
That the ancient and modern Roman pound , containing grains of Troy weight , is about one twelfth lighter than the English pound , which is composed of of the same grains . 
That the pound of gold , which had once been divided into forty eight aurei , was at this time coined into seventy two smaller pieces of the same denomination . 
That the English pound of silver is coined into sixty two shillings . 
Several indigent citizens contributed to compose a single head , or share of taxation while the wealthy provincial , in proportion to his fortune , alone represented several of those imaginary beings . 
The exactions of Constantius may be calculated at seven millions sterling , which were reduced to two millions by the humanity or the wisdom of Julian . 
Two masterly dissertations of M. Savigny , in the Mem . 
have thrown new light on the taxation system of the Empire . 
The land tax was , in its operation , a proprietor's or landlord's tax . 
But , besides this , there was a direct capitation tax on all who were not possessed of landed property . 
This tax dates from the time of the Roman conquests its amount is not clearly known . 
Gradual exemptions released different persons and classes from this tax . 
Under Galerius and Licinius , the plebs urbana became exempt though this , perhaps , was only an ordinance for the East . 
It was paid by the proprietor , who raised it again from his coloni and laborers . 
M. Geryones nos esse puta , monstrumque tributum , Hic capita ut vivam , tu mihi tolle tria . 
The words , suo vel suorum nomine , betray the perplexity of the commentator . 
is , boys , and , girls , in all , children . 
If we content ourselves with the more moderate proportion of to , the whole population will amount to , , . 
Coloni appellantur qui conditionem debent genitali solo , propter agriculturum sub dominio possessorum . 
de Civitate Dei , l . 
Autun in Burgundy , the capital of the Aedui , comprehended the adjacent territory of Nevers . 
See D'Anville , Notice de l'Ancienne Gaule , p . 
The two dioceses of Autun and Nevers are now composed , the former of , and the latter of parishes . 
since they contain , the one , and the other parishes . 
This accession of territory might be justified by very specious reasons . 
Chalons and Macon were undoubtedly within the original jurisdiction of the Aedui . 
In the Notitia of Gaul , they are enumerated not as Civitates , but merely as Castra . 
They do not appear to have been episcopal seats before the fifth and sixth centuries . 
which very forcibly deters me from extending the territory of the Aedui , in the reign of Constantine , along the beautiful banks of the navigable Saone . 
Note In this passage of Eumenius , Savigny supposes the original number to have been , being discharged , there remained , liable to the tribute . 
M. Eumenius in Panegyr Vet . 
L'Abbe du Bos , Hist . 
Critique de la M. F. tom . 
But this tax , or capitation , on the proprietors of land , would have suffered a rich and numerous class of free citizens to escape . 
Some exemptions , very strictly confined both in time and place , were allowed to the proprietors who disposed of the produce of their own estates . 
Some indulgence was granted to the profession of the liberal arts but every other branch of commercial industry was affected by the severity of the law . 
! The emperor Theodosius put an end , by a law . 
to this disgraceful source of revenue . 
But before he deprived himself of it , he made sure of some way of replacing this deficit . 
A rich patrician , Florentius , indignant at this legalized licentiousness , had made representations on the subject to the emperor . 
To induce him to tolerate it no longer , he offered his own property to supply the diminution of the revenue . 
The emperor had the baseness to accept his offer G. Zosimus , l . 
There is probably as much passion and prejudice in the attack of Zosimus , as in the elaborate defence of the memory of Constantine by the zealous Dr . 
of the World , vol . 
These general taxes were imposed and levied by the absolute authority of the monarch but the occasional offerings of the coronary gold still retained the name and semblance of popular consent . 
The peculiar free gift of the senate of Rome was fixed by custom at sixteen hundred pounds of gold , or about sixty four thousand pounds sterling . 
The oppressed subjects celebrated their own felicity , that their sovereign should graciously consent to accept this feeble but voluntary testimony of their loyalty and gratitude . 
The Tarragonese Spain presented the emperor Claudius with a crown of gold of seven , and Gaul with another of nine , hundred pounds weight . 
I have followed the rational emendation of Lipsius . 
Note This custom is of still earlier date , the Romans had borrowed it from Greece . 
Who is not acquainted with the famous oration of Demosthenes for the golden crown , which his citizens wished to bestow , and Aeschines to deprive him of ? G. Cod . 
The senators were supposed to be exempt from the Aurum Coronarium but the Auri Oblatio , which was required at their hands , was precisely of the same nature . 
A people elated by pride , or soured by discontent , are seldom qualified to form a just estimate of their actual situation . 
The impartial historian , who acknowledges the justice of their complaints , will observe some favorable circumstances which tended to alleviate the misery of their condition . 
The threatening tempest of Barbarians , which so soon subverted the foundations of Roman greatness , was still repelled , or suspended , on the frontiers . 
The arts of luxury and literature were cultivated , and the elegant pleasures of society were enjoyed , by the inhabitants of a considerable portion of the globe . 
distinguishes the station of a Roman prince from that of a Parthian monarch . 
Virtue was necessary for the one birth might suffice for the other . 
Chapter XVIII Character Of Constantine And His Sons . 
Part I. Character Of Constantine . 
Division Of The Empire Among His Three Sons . 
Tragic Deaths Of Constantine The Younger And Constans . 
On ne se trompera point sur Constantin , en croyant tout le mal ru'en dit Eusebe , et tout le bien qu'en dit Zosime . 
Eusebius and Zosimus form indeed the two extremes of flattery and invective . 
The intermediate shades are expressed by those writers , whose character or situation variously tempered the influence of their religious zeal . 
The person , as well as the mind , of Constantine , had been enriched by nature with her choices endowments . 
The sincerity of his friendship has been suspected yet he showed , on some occasions , that he was not incapable of a warm and lasting attachment . 
He loved glory as the reward , perhaps as the motive , of his labors . 
The virtues of Constantine are collected for the most part from Eutropius and the younger Victor , two sincere pagans , who wrote after the extinction of his family . 
Even Zosimus , and the Emperor Julian , acknowledge his personal courage and military achievements . 
degraded him from the rank which he had acquired among the most deserving of the Roman princes . 
In the life of Augustus , we behold the tyrant of the republic , converted , almost by imperceptible degrees , into the father of his country , and of human kind . 
His unworthy favorites , enriched by the boundless liberality of their master , usurped with impunity the privilege of rapine and corruption . 
The dress and manners , which , towards the decline of life , he chose to affect , served only to degrade him in the eyes of mankind . 
The Asiatic pomp , which had been adopted by the pride of Diocletian , assumed an air of softness and effeminacy in the person of Constantine . 
A mind thus relaxed by prosperity and indulgence , was incapable of rising to that magnanimity which disdains suspicion , and dares to forgive . 
In primo Imperii tempore optimis principibus , ultimo mediis comparandus . 
I am inclined to suspect that Eutropius had originally written vix mediis and that the offensive monosyllable was dropped by the wilful inadvertency of transcribers . 
Aurelius Victor expresses the general opinion by a vulgar and indeed obscure proverb . 
Trachala decem annis praestantissimds duodecim sequentibus latro decem novissimis pupillus ob immouicas profusiones . 
, in a flattering discourse pronounced before the son of Constantine and Caesares , p . 
The stately buildings of Constantinople , c . 
, may be quoted as a lasting and unexceptionable proof of the profuseness of their founder . 
The impartial Ammianus deserves all our confidence . 
Proximorum fauces aperuit primus omnium Constantinus . 
and some of the Imperial laws feebly point out the remedy . 
Julian , in the Caesars , attempts to ridicule his uncle . 
alleges , that Constantine dressed for the public , not for himself . 
Were this admitted , the vainest coxcomb could never want an excuse . 
The same fortune which so invariably followed the standard of Constantine , seemed to secure the hopes and comforts of his domestic life . 
The emperor had been twice married . 
Minervina , the obscure but lawful object of his youthful attachment , had left him only one son , who was called Crispus . 
By Fausta , the daughter of Maximian , he had three daughters , and three sons known by the kindred names of Constantine , Constantius , and Constans . 
The youngest of the three lived without a name , and died without posterity . 
His two elder brothers obtained in marriage the daughters of wealthy senators , and propagated new branches of the Imperial race . 
Gallus and Julian afterwards became the most illustrious of the children of Julius Constantius , the Patrician . 
The two sons of Dalmatius , who had been decorated with the vain title of Censor , were named Dalmatius and Hannibalianus . 
The two sisters of the great Constantine , Anastasia and Eutropia , were bestowed on Optatus and Nepotianus , two senators of noble birth and of consular dignity . 
His third sister , Constantia , was distinguished by her preeminence of greatness and of misery . 
bestows on him , after Zosimus , the name of Constantine a name somewhat unlikely , as it was already occupied by the elder brother . 
That of Hannibalianus is mentioned in the Paschal Chronicle , and is approved by Tillemont . 
Crispus , the eldest son of Constantine , and the presumptive heir of the empire , is represented by impartial historians as an amiable and accomplished youth . 
The public favor , which seldom accompanies old age , diffused its lustre over the youth of Crispus . 
He deserved the esteem , and he engaged the affections , of the court , the army , and the people . 
The poverty of Lactantius may be applied either to the praise of the disinterested philosopher , or to the shame of the unfeeling patron . 
Lardner's Credibility of the Gospel History , part ii . 
very plainly alludes to the exploits of Crispus in the civil war . 
This dangerous popularity soon excited the attention of Constantine , who , both as a father and as a king , was impatient of an equal . 
Instead of attempting to secure the allegiance of his son by the generous ties of confidence and gratitude , he resolved to prevent the mischiefs which might be apprehended from dissatisfied ambition . 
An edict of Constantine , published about this time , manifestly indicates his real or affected suspicions , that a secret conspiracy had been formed against his person and government . 
For the appointment of the new Caesar to the provinces of Gaul , see Julian , Orat . 
and Blondel , de Primaute de l'Eglise , p . 
Godefroy suspected the secret motives of this law . 
The policy of Constantine maintained , however , the same appearances of regard and confidence towards a son , whom he began to consider as his most irreconcilable enemy . 
His name was Porphyrius Optatianus . 
The date of his panegyric , written , according to the taste of the age , in vile acrostics , is settled by Scaliger ad Euseb . 
, and Fabricius , Biblioth . 
The elder Victor , who wrote under the next reign , speaks with becoming caution . 
Natu grandior incertum qua causa , patris judicio occidisset . 
for the sake perhaps of an antithesis to Fausta's warm bath , chooses to administer a draught of cold poison . 
Sororis filium , commodae indolis juvenem . 
of the Theodosian code , which has so much embarrassed the interpreters . 
Note This conjecture is very doubtful . 
The obscurity of the law quoted from the Theodosian code scarcely allows any inference , and there is extant but one meda which can be attributed to a Helena , wife of Crispus . 
See the life of Constantine , particularly l . 
deduced from the silence of Eusebius a vain argument against the reality of the fact . 
Histoire de Pierre le Grand , par Voltaire , part ii . 
But it seems a superfluous labor to weigh the propriety , unless we could ascertain the truth , of this singular event , which is attended with some circumstances of doubt and perplexity . 
Those who have attacked , and those who have defended , the character of Constantine , have alike disregarded two very remarkable passages of two orations pronounced under the succeeding reign . 
The former celebrates the virtues , the beauty , and the fortune of the empress Fausta , the daughter , wife , sister , and mother of so many princes . 
two witnesses , Hippolitus , and the younger Herodotus , to whose imaginary histories he appeals with unblushing confidence . 
may be considered as our original . 
The ingenuity of the moderns , assisted by a few hints from the ancients , has illustrated and improved his obscure and imperfect narrative . 
imputes to Constantine the death of two wives , of the innocent Fausta , and of an adulteress , who was the mother of his three successors . 
According to Jerom , three or four years elapsed between the death of Crispus and that of Fausta . 
The elder Victor is prudently silent . 
If Fausta was put to death , it is reasonable to believe that the private apartments of the palace were the scene of her execution . 
The orator Chrysostom indulges his fancy by exposing the naked desert mountain to be devoured by wild beasts . 
He seems to call her the mother of Crispus . 
She might assume that title by adoption . 
At least , she was not considered as his mortal enemy . 
Julian compares the fortune of Fausta with that of Parysatis , the Persian queen . 
treats this inference o Gibbon , and the authorities to which he appeals , with too much contempt , considering the general scantiness of proof on this curious question . 
Saturni aurea saecula quis requirat ? Sunt haec gemmea , sed Neroniana . 
We may now perceive that the imprecations of the Roman people were dictated by humanity , as well as by superstition . 
Chapter XVIII Character Of Constantine And His Sons . 
The former was raised , by the title of Caesar , to an equality with his cousins . 
In favor of the latter , Constantine invented the new and singular appellation of Nobilissimus to which he annexed the flattering distinction of a robe of purple and gold . 
These dates are sufficiently correct to justify the orator . 
Under the predecessors of Constantine , No bilissimus was a vague epithet , rather than a legal and determined title . 
Adstruunt nummi veteres ac singulares . 
The Valesian fragment styles him King of kings and the Paschal Chronicle acquires the weight of Latin evidence . 
Hannibalianus is always designated in these authors by the title of king . 
There still exist medals struck to his honor , on which the same title is found , Fl . 
Armeniam nationesque circum socias habebat , says Aur . 
The writer means the Lesser Armenia . 
Though it is not possible to question a fact supported by such respectable authorities , Gibbon considers it inexplicable and incredible . 
Martin note to Le Beau i . 
M. The whole empire was deeply interested in the education of these five youths , the acknowledged successors of Constantine . 
The exercise of the body prepared them for the fatigues of war and the duties of active life . 
The same assiduous cultivation was bestowed , though not perhaps with equal success , to improve the minds of the sons and nephews of Constantine . 
But the genius of Constantine himself had been formed by adversity and experience . 
His destined successors had the misfortune of being born and educated in the imperial purple . 
Italy , the Western Illyricum , and Africa , were accustomed to revere Constans , the third of his sons , as the representative of the great Constantine . 
He fixed Dalmatius on the Gothic frontier , to which he annexed the government of Thrace , Macedonia , and Greece . 
For each of these princes a suitable establishment was provided . 
A just proportion of guards , of legions , and of auxiliaries , was allotted for their respective dignity and defence . 
, with Spanheim's elaborate Commentary . 
Constantius studied with laudable diligence but the dulness of his fancy prevented him from succeeding in the art of poetry , or even of rhetoric . 
with a design of exalting the authority and glory of Constantine , affirms , that he divided the Roman empire as a private citizen might have divided his patrimony . 
His distribution of the provinces may be collected from Eutropius , the two Victors and the Valesian fragment . 
Calocerus , the obscure leader of this rebellion , or rather tumult , was apprehended and burnt alive in the market place of Tarsus , by the vigilance of Dalmatius . 
See the elder Victor , the Chronicle of Jerom , and the doubtful traditions of Theophanes and Cedrenus . 
The care of their numerous flocks and herds , the pursuit of game , and the exercises of war , or rather of rapine , directed the vagrant motions of the Sarmatians . 
The movable camps or cities , the ordinary residence of their wives and children , consisted only of large wagons drawn by oxen , and covered in the form of tents . 
The offensive arms of the Sarmatians were short daggers , long lances , and a weighty bow vow with a quiver of arrows . 
The Sarmatian horses were castrated to prevent the mischievous accidents which might happen from the noisy and ungovernable passions of the males . 
That inquisitive traveller had carefully examined a Sarmatian cuirass , which was preserved in the temple of Aesculapius at Athens . 
Aspicis et mitti sub adunco toxica ferro , Et telum causas mortis habere duas . 
Ovid , ex Ponto , l . 
See in the Recherches sur les Americains , tom . 
, a very curious dissertation on poisoned darts . 
The venom was commonly extracted from the vegetable reign but that employed by the Scythians appears to have been drawn from the viper , and a mixture of human blood . 
The use of poisoned arms , which has been spread over both worlds , never preserved a savage tribe from the arms of a disciplined enemy . 
The allurements of plenty engaged them to seek a permanent establishment on the frontiers of the empire . 
The nine books of Poetical Epistles which Ovid composed during the seven first years of his melancholy exile , possess , beside the merit of elegance , a double value . 
They exhibit a picture of the human mind under very singular circumstances and they contain many curious observations , which no Roman except Ovid , could have an opportunity of making . 
Every circumstance which tends to illustrate the history of the Barbarians , has been drawn together by the very accurate Count de Buat . 
Ancienne des Peuples de l'Europe , tom . 
The Sarmatian Jazygae were settled on the banks of Pathissus or Tibiscus , when Pliny , in the year , published his Natural History . 
In the time of Strabo and Ovid , sixty or seventy years before , they appear to have inhabited beyond the Getae , along the coast of the Euxine . 
Principes Sarmaturum Jazygum penes quos civitatis regimen plebem quoque et vim equitum , qua sola valent , offerebant . 
This offer was made in the civil war between Vitellino and Vespasian . 
This hypothesis of a Vandal king reigning over Sarmatian subjects , seems necessary to reconcile the Goth Jornandes with the Greek and Latin historians of Constantine . 
It may be observed that Isidore , who lived in Spain under the dominion of the Goths , gives them for enemies , not the Vandals , but the Sarmatians . 
See his Chronicle in Grotius , p . 
See Gatterer's Welt Geschiehte p . 
G. This motive of enmity must have inflamed the subjects of contention , which perpetually arise on the confines of warlike and independent nations . 
Gibbon states , that Constantine was defeated by the Goths in a first battle . 
No ancient author mentions such an event . 
It is , no doubt , a mistake in Gibbon . 
St Martin , note to Le Beau . 
The speedy march and intrepid attack of the Chersonites , by diverting the attention of the Goths , assisted the operations of the Imperial generals . 
In the expressions of his gratitude towards the faithful Chersonites , the emperor was still more magnificent . 
The pride of the nation was gratified by the splendid and almost royal decorations bestowed on their magistrate and his successors . 
A perpetual exemption from all duties was stipulated for their vessels which traded to the ports of the Black Sea . 
A regular subsidy was promised , of iron , corn , oil , and of every supply which could be useful either in peace or war . 
I may stand in need of some apology for having used , without scruple , the authority of Constantine Porphyrogenitus , in all that relates to the wars and negotiations of the Chersonites . 
I am aware that he was a Greek of the tenth century , and that his accounts of ancient history are frequently confused and fabulous . 
For the situation and history of Chersone , see Peyssonel , des Peuples barbares qui ont habite les Bords du Danube , c . 
! Gibbon has confounded the inhabitants of the city of Cherson , the ancient Chersonesus , with the people of the Chersonesus Taurica . 
Martin , note to Le Beau i . 
But they soon discovered that they had exchanged a foreign for a domestic enemy , more dangerous and more implacable . 
Enraged by their former servitude , elated by their present glory , the slaves , under the name of Limigantes , claimed and usurped the possession of the country which they had saved . 
Their masters , unable to withstand the ungoverned fury of the populace , preferred the hardships of exile to the tyranny of their servants . 
Some of the fugitive Sarmatians solicited a less ignominious dependence , under the hostile standard of the Goths . 
A more numerous band retired beyond the Carpathian Mountains , among the Quadi , their German allies , and were easily admitted to share a superfluous waste of uncultivated land . 
But the far greater part of the distressed nation turned their eyes towards the fruitful provinces of Rome . 
Gibbon supposes that this war took place because Constantine had deducted a part of the customary gratifications , granted by his predecessors to the Sarmatians . 
Nothing of this kind appears in the authors . 
Martin , note to Le Beau , i . 
Those who will take the same trouble , may acquire a right of criticizing my narrative . 
Sextus Rufus de Provinciis , c . 
, and Spanheim , Comment . 
Compare , on this very obscure but remarkable war , Manso , Leben Coa xantius , p . 
The excessive demonstrations of grief , or at least of mourning , surpassed whatever had been practised on any former occasion . 
The forms of the court were strictly maintained . 
remarks three circumstances relative to these Indians . 
They came from the shores of the eastern ocean a description which might be applied to the coast of China or Coromandel . 
They presented shining gems , and unknown animals . 
They protested their kings had erected statues to represent the supreme majesty of Constantine . 
Funus relatum in urbem sui nominis , quod sane P. R. aegerrime tulit . 
Constantine prepared for himself a stately tomb in the church of the Holy Apostles . 
The best , and indeed almost the only account of the sickness , death , and funeral of Constantine , is contained in the fourth book of his Life by Eusebius . 
Astonished and overwhelmed by the tide of popular fury , they seem to have remained , without the power of flight or of resistance , in the hands of their implacable enemies . 
Their fate was suspended till the arrival of Constantius , the second , and perhaps the most favored , of the sons of Constantine . 
terminates his narrative by this loyal declaration of the troops , and avoids all the invidious circumstances of the subsequent massacre . 
The character of Dalmatius is advantageously , though concisely drawn by Eutropius . 
Dalmatius Ceasar prosperrima indole , neque patrou absimilis , haud multo post oppressus est factione militari . 
Chapter XVIII Character Of Constantine And His Sons . 
His next employment was to find some specious pretence which might release his conscience from the obligation of an imprudent promise . 
The arts of fraud were made subservient to the designs of cruelty and a manifest forgery was attested by a person of the most sacred character . 
I have related this singular anecdote on the authority of Philostorgius , l . 
But if such a pretext was ever used by Constantius and his adherents , it was laid aside with contempt , as soon as it served their immediate purpose . 
mention the oath which Constantius had taken for the security of his kinsmen . 
G. Conjugia sobrinarum diu ignorata , tempore addito percrebuisse . 
, and Lipsius ad loc . 
and Julian , whose mind was biased by superstition and resentment , stigmatizes these unnatural alliances between his own cousins with the opprobrious epithet . 
The jurisprudence of the canons has since received and enforced this prohibition , without being able to introduce it either into the civil or the common law of Europe . 
See on the subject of these marriages , Taylor's Civil Law , p . 
Hericourt des Loix Ecclesiastiques , part iii . 
Fleury , Institutions du Droit Canonique , tom . 
Paris , , and Fra Paolo , Istoria del Concilio Trident , l . 
charges his cousin Constantius with the whole guilt of a massacre , from which he himself so narrowly escaped . 
Zosimus joins in the same accusation . 
But the three abbreviators , Eutropius and the Victors , use very qualifying expressions sinente potius quam jubente incertum quo suasore vi militum . 
The massacre of the Flavian race was succeeded by a new division of the provinces which was ratified in a personal interview of the three brothers . 
Thrace , and the countries of the East , were allotted for the patrimony of Constantius and Constans was acknowledged as the lawful sovereign of Italy , Africa , and the Western Illyricum . 
The armies submitted to their hereditary right and they condescended , after some delay , to accept from the Roman senate the title of Augustus . 
When they first assumed the reins of government , the eldest of these princes was twenty one , the second twenty , and the third only seventeen , years of age . 
See two notes of Tillemont , Hist . 
The reign of the eldest brother at Constantinople is noticed only in the Alexandrian Chronicle . 
The apprehensions of civil war were at length removed , by the positive assurance of the Magi , that the widow of Hormouz had conceived , and would safely produce a son . 
Obedient to the voice of superstition , the Persians prepared , without delay , the ceremony of his coronation . 
He derived his information from some extracts of the Persian Chronicles , obtained and translated by the interpreter Sergius , during his embassy at that country . 
The author of the Zenut ul Tarikh states , that the lady herself affirmed her belief of this from the extraordinary liveliness of the infant , and its lying on the right side . 
Those who are sage on such subjects must determine what right she had to be positive from these symptoms . 
M. D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
Eastern authors are agreed with respect to the origin of this title . 
Gibbon took his derivation from D'Herbelot , who gives both , the latter on the authority of the Leb . 
In Armenia , the renowned Tiridates had long enjoyed the peace and glory which he deserved by his valor and fidelity to the cause of Rome . 
He died at length after a reign of fifty six years , and the fortune of the Armenian monarchy expired with Tiridates . 
The Christian party , under the guidance of the Archbishop of Artaxata , the immediate successor of St . 
Gregory the Illuminator , had recourse to the piety of Constantius . 
But the Romans derived more honor than advantage from this revolution . 
Chosroes was a prince of a puny stature and a pusillanimous spirit . 
Constantine had endeavored to allay the fury of the prosecutions , which , at the instigation of the Magi and the Jews , Sapor had commenced against the Christians . 
Tiridates had sustained a war against Maximin . 
caused by the hatred of the latter against Christianity . 
Armenia was the first nation which embraced Christianity . 
About the year it was the religion of the king , the nobles , and the people of Armenia . 
Martin , Supplement to Le Beau , v . 
Compare Preface to History of Vartan by Professor Neumann , p ix . 
M. Chosroes was restored probably by Licinius , between and . 
in , and from a fragment of the same work published by M. Amedee Peyron , in . 
He may before this have been sent into Armenia . 
Is it not more probable that Antiochus was an officer in the service of the Caesar who ruled in the East ? M. Chosroes was succeeded in the year by his son Diran . 
Diran was a weak prince , and in the sixteenth year of his reign . 
was betrayed into the power of the Persians by the treachery of his chamberlain and the Persian governor of Atropatene or Aderbidjan . 
Arsaces pursued a vacillating policy between the influence of Rome and Persia , and the war recommenced in the year . 
At least , that was the period of the expedition of Constantius to the East . 
Martin , additions to Le Beau , i . 
Moses of Chorene , l . 
The perfect agreement between the vague hints of the contemporary orator , and the circumstantial narrative of the national historian , gives light to the former , and weight to the latter . 
For the credit of Moses , it may be likewise observed , that the name of Antiochus is found a few years before in a civil office of inferior dignity . 
Gibbon has endeavored , in his History , to make use of the information furnished by Moses of Chorene , the only Armenian historian then translated into Latin . 
Gibbon has not perceived all the chronological difficulties which occur in the narrative of that writer . 
He has not thought of all the critical discussions which his text ought to undergo before it can be combined with the relations of the western writers . 
From want of this attention , Gibbon has made the facts which he has drawn from this source more erroneous than they are in the original . 
This judgment applies to all which the English historian has derived from the Armenian author . 
Martin , note on Le Beau , i . 
I have inserted M. St . 
Martin's observations , but I must add , that the chronology which he proposes , is not generally received by Armenian scholars , not , I believe , by Professor Neumann . 
M. During the long period of the reign of Constantius , the provinces of the East were afflicted by the calamities of the Persian war . 
The event of the day was most commonly adverse to the Romans , but in the battle of Singara , heir imprudent valor had almost achieved a signal and decisive victory . 
But the prudent Sapor had watched the moment of victory . 
The sincerity of history declares , that the Romans were vanquished with a dreadful slaughter , and that the flying remnant of the legions was exposed to the most intolerable hardships . 
The son of Sapor , the heir of his crown , had been made a captive in the Persian camp . 
The unhappy youth , who might have excited the compassion of the most savage enemy , was scourged , tortured , and publicly executed by the inhuman Romans . 
published the Itineraries of Alexander and Trajan , in order to direct the victorious Constantius in the footsteps of those great conquerors of the East . 
gives a lively description of the wandering and predatory life of the Saracens , who stretched from the confines of Assyria to the cataracts of the Nile . 
It appears from the adventures of Malchus , which Jerom has related in so entertaining a manner , that the high road between Beraea and Edessa was infested by these robbers . 
We shall take from Eutropius the general idea of the war . 
A Persis enim multa et gravia perpessus , saepe captis , oppidis , obsessis urbibus , caesis exercitibus , nullumque ei contra Saporem prosperum praelium fuit , nisi quod apud Singaram , c . 
This honest account is confirmed by the hints of Ammianus , Rufus , and Jerom . 
The Commentary of Spanheim on the first oration of Julian is profusely learned . 
See likewise the judicious observations of Tillemont , Hist . 
Now Sinjar , or the River Claboras . 
M. Acerrima nocturna concertatione pugnatum est , nostrorum copiis ngenti strage confossis . 
See likewise Eutropius , x . 
, and S. Rufus , c . 
The Persian historians , or romancers , do not mention the battle of Singara , but make the captive Shahpour escape , defeat , and take prisoner , the Roman emperor . 
The Roman captives were forced to repair all the ravages they had committed , even to replanting the smallest trees . 
, and Spanneism's Commentary , p . 
This large and populous city was situate about two days' journey from the Tigris , in the midst of a pleasant and fertile plain at the foot of Mount Masius . 
A treble enclosure of brick walls was defended by a deep ditch and the intrepid resistance of Count Lucilianus , and his garrison , was seconded by the desperate courage of the people . 
By the labor of the Persians , the course of the river was stopped below the town , and the waters were confined on every side by solid mounds of earth . 
The Persians were instantly driven to the assault , and the fate of Nisibis depended on the event of the day . 
The elephants , made furious by their wounds , increased the disorder , and trampled down thousands of the Persian archers . 
Alarmed by this intelligence , he hastily relinquished the siege , and marched with rapid diligence from the banks of the Tigris to those of the Oxus . 
who illustrates the circumstances , and ascertains the time of the three sieges of Nisibis . 
Something is added from Zosimus , l . 
, and the Alexandrine Chronicle , p . 
Brosses , and Plutarch in Lucull . 
See Niebuhr , Voyages , tom . 
James , Bishop of Edessa , were at least performed in a worthy cause , the defence of his couutry . 
There are many circumstances obscure , and almost unintelligible , in the description of these stupendous water works . 
for this invasion of the Massagetae , which is perfectly consistent with the general series of events to which we are darkly led by the broken history of Ammianus . 
The measures of Constans , who then resided in Dacia , were directed with more prudence and ability . 
On the news of his brother's invasion , he detached a select and disciplined body of his Illyrian troops , proposing to follow them in person , with the remainder of his forces . 
But the conduct of his lieutenants soon terminated the unnatural contest . 
The causes and the events of this civil war are related with much perplexity and contradiction . 
I have chiefly followed Zonaras and the younger Victor . 
pronounced on the death of Constantine , might have been very instructive but prudence and false taste engaged the orator to involve himself in vague declamation . 
Chapter XVIII Character Of Constantine And His Sons . 
The fate of Constans himself was delayed about ten years longer , and the revenge of his brother's death was reserved for the more ignoble hand of a domestic traitor . 
The pride assumed by Constans , from the unmerited success of his arms , was rendered more contemptible by his want of abilities and application . 
The chosen bands of Jovians and Herculians , who acknowledged Magnentius as their leader , maintained the most respectable and important station in the Imperial camp . 
The friendship of Marcellinus , count of the sacred largesses , supplied with a liberal hand the means of seduction . 
The intemperance of the feast was artfully protracted till a very late hour of the night and the unsuspecting guests were tempted to indulge themselves in a dangerous and guilty freedom of conversation . 
On a sudden the doors were thrown open , and Magnentius , who had retired for a few moments , returned into the apartment , invested with the diadem and purple . 
The conspirators instantly saluted him with the titles of Augustus and Emperor . 
The rapid progress of fame allowed him , however , an instant for flight , though the desertion of his soldiers and subjects deprived him of the power of resistance . 
obsides pretio quaesitos pueros venustiore quod cultius habuerat libidine hujusmodi arsisse pro certo habet . 
The munificence of Constantine gave it new splendor , and his mother's name . 
became the seat of a bishop , who long afterwards transferred his residence to Perpignan , the capital of modern Rousillon . 
Notice de l'Ancienne Gaule , p . 
Longuerue , Description de la France , p . 
, and the Marca Hispanica , l . 
As soon as the death of Constans had decided this easy but important revolution , the example of the court of Autun was imitated by the provinces of the West . 
describes Vetranio with more temper , and probably with more truth , than either of the two Victors . 
Vetranio was born of obscure parents in the wildest parts of Maesia and so much had his education been neglected , that , after his elevation , he studied the alphabet . 
The doubtful , fluctuating conduct of Vetranio is described by Julian in his first oration , and accurately explained by Spanheim , who discusses the situation and behavior of Constantina . 
The intelligence of these important events , which so deeply affected the honor and safety of the Imperial house , recalled the arms of Constantius from the inglorious prosecution of the Persian war . 
On his arrival at Heraclea in Thrace , the emperor gave audience to the ambassadors of Magnentius and Vetranio . 
These deputies were instructed to soothe the resentment , and to alarm the fears , of Constantius . 
The authority of such a vision , or rather of the prince who alleged it , silenced every doubt , and excluded all negotiation . 
The ignominious terms of peace were rejected with disdain . 
See Peter the Patrician , in the Excerpta Legationem p . 
Such was the conduct , and such perhaps was the duty , of the brother of Constans towards the perfidious usurper of Gaul . 
The chiefs , who had secretly embraced the party of Constantius , prepared in his favor a public spectacle , calculated to discover and inflame the passions of the multitude . 
The united armies were commanded to assemble in a large plain near the city . 
The city of Prusa was assigned for the exile or retirement of the abdicated monarch , who lived six years in the enjoyment of ease and affluence . 
in the peaceful obscurity of a private condition . 
See the two first orations of Julian , particularly p . 
The distinct narrative of the historian serves to illustrate the diffuse but vague descriptions of the orator . 
The younger Victor assigns to his exile the emphatical appellation of Voluptarium otium . 
is the voucher for the correspondence with the emperor , which would seem to prove that Vetranio was indeed , prope ad stultitiam simplicissimus . 
The approaching contest with Magnentius was of a more serious and bloody kind . 
Yet by the impregnable fortifications with which the emperor encompassed his camp , he appeared to decline , rather than to invite , a general engagement . 
During the greater part of the summer , the tyrant of Gaul showed himself master of the field . 
These offers were enforced by the eloquence of Philip the Imperial ambassador and the council as well as the army of Magnentius were disposed to accept them . 
That he should confide in the justice of his cause , and the protection of an avenging Deity , was the only answer which honor permitted the emperor to return . 
But he was so sensible of the difficulties of his situation , that he no longer dared to retaliate the indignity which had been offered to his representative . 
facundiae vi dejectum Imperio in pri vatum otium removit . 
Quae gloria post natum Imperium soli proces sit eloquio clementiaque , c . 
adorn this exploit with all the artificial and gaudy coloring of their rhetoric . 
traversed the Lower Hungary and Sclavonia at a time when they were reduced almost to a desert , by the reciprocal hostilities of the Turks and Christians . 
Yet he mentions with admiration the unconquerable fertility of the soil and observes that the height of the grass was sufficient to conceal a loaded wagon from his sight . 
See likewise Browne's Travels , in Harris's Collection , vol ii . 
But as he neither shows himself a soldier nor a politician , his narrative must be weighed with attention , and received with caution . 
Magnentius , directing his march towards Mursa , set fire to the gates , and , by a sudden assault , had almost scaled the walls of the town . 
They deserved his confidence by the valor and military skill which they exerted . 
But the Romans of the West soon rallied , by the habits of discipline and the Barbarians of Germany supported the renown of their national bravery . 
The engagement soon became general was maintained with various and singular turns of fortune and scarcely ended with the darkness of the night . 
The signal victory which Constantius obtained is attributed to the arms of his cavalry . 
His cuirassiers are described as so many massy statues of steel , glittering with their scaly armor , and breaking with their ponderous lances the firm array of the Gallic legions . 
As soon as the legions gave way , the lighter and more active squadrons of the second line rode sword in hand into the intervals , and completed the disorder . 
Notwithstanding the invectives of a servile orator , there is not the least reason to believe that the tyrant deserted his own standard in the beginning of the engagement . 
He seems to have displayed the virtues of a general and of a soldier till the day was irrecoverably lost , and his camp in the possession of the enemy . 
This position , and the subsequent evolutions , are clearly , though concisely , described by Julian , Orat . 
The emperor passed the day in prayer with Valens , the Arian bishop of Mursa , who gained his confidence by announcing the success of the battle . 
very properly remarks the silence of Julian with regard to the personal prowess of Constantius in the battle of Mursa . 
The silence of flattery is sometimes equal to the most positive and authentic evidence . 
According to Zonaras , Constantius , out of , men , lost , and Magnentius lost , out of , . 
The other articles of this account seem probable and authentic , but the numbers of the tyrant's army must have been mistaken , either by the author or his transcribers . 
Magnentius had collected the whole force of the West , Romans and Barbarians , into one formidable body , which cannot fairly be estimated at less than , men . 
Ingentes R. I. vires ea dimicatione consumptae sunt , ad quaelibet bella externa idoneae , quae multum triumphorum possent securitatisque conferre . 
The younger Victor expresses himself to the same effect . 
On this occasion , we must prefer the unsuspected testimony of Zosimus and Zonaras to the flattering assertions of Julian . 
The younger Victor paints the character of Magnentius in a singular light Sermonis acer , animi tumidi , et immodice timidus artifex tamen ad occultandam audaciae specie formidinem . 
Is it most likely that in the battle of Mursa his behavior was governed by nature or by art should incline for the latter . 
The approach of winter supplied the indolence of Constantius with specious reasons for deferring the prosecution of the war till the ensuing spring . 
Magnentius had fixed his residence in the city of Aquileia , and showed a seeming resolution to dispute the passage of the mountains and morasses which fortified the confines of the Venetian province . 
But the memory of the cruelties exercised by his ministers , after the unsuccessful revolt of Nepotian , had left a deep impression of horror and resentment on the minds of the Romans . 
That rash youth , the son of the princess Eutropia , and the nephew of Constantine , had seen with indignation the sceptre of the West usurped by a perfidious barbarian . 
By their secret intelligence with their countrymen , Rome and the Italian cities were persuaded to display the banners of Constantius on their walls . 
The grateful veterans , enriched by the liberality of the father , signalized their gratitude and loyalty to the son . 
In that place , however , as well as in Oration ii . 
, he insinuates the general disposition of the senate , the people , and the soldiers of Italy , towards the party of the emperor . 
execrates the cruelty of Marcellinus , the implacable enemy of the house of Constantine . 
The panegyrists of Constantius , with their usual candor , forget to mention this accidental defeat . 
The pride of Magnentius was reduced , by repeated misfortunes , to sue , and to sue in vain , for peace . 
The example of suicide was imitated by Decentius , who strangled himself on the news of his brother's death . 
A severe inquisition was extended over all who , either from choice or from compulsion , had been involved in the cause of rebellion . 
Paul , surnamed Catena from his superior skill in the judicial exercise of tyranny , was sent to explore the latent remains of the conspiracy in the remote province of Britain . 
Julian , in several places of the two orations , expatiates on the clemency of Constantius to the rebels . 
the oppressive edicts which were dictated by his necessities , or by his avarice . 
The medals of Magnentius celebrate the victories of the two Augusti , and of the Caesar . 
The Caesar was another brother , named Desiderius . 
His Commentary illustrates the transactions of this civil war . 
Mons Seleuci was a small place in the Cottian Alps , a few miles distant from Vapincum , or Gap , an episcopal city of Dauphine . 
See D'Anville , Notice de la Gaule , p . 
and Longuerue , Description de la France , p . 
and twenty six from Lucus . 
The situation answers to Mont Saleon , a little place on the right of the small river Buech , which falls into the Durance . 
Roman antiquities have been found in this place . 
Note to Le Beau , ii . 
The latter most vehemently arraigns this cruel and selfish policy of Constantius . 
The younger Victor describes his death with some horrid circumstances Transfosso latere , ut erat vasti corporis , vulnere naribusque et ore cruorem effundens , exspiravit . 
If we can give credit to Zonaras , the tyrant , before he expired , had the pleasure of murdering , with his own hand , his mother and his brother Desiderius . 
This is scarcely correct , ut erat in complicandis negotiis artifex dirum made ei Catenae inditum est cognomentum . 
Chapter XIX Constantius Sole Emperor . 
Part I. Constantius Sole Emperor . 
Elevation And Death Of Gallus . 
Danger And Elevation Of Julian . 
Victories Of Julian In Gaul . 
Those unhappy beings , the ancient production of Oriental jealousy and despotism , were introduced into Greece and Rome by the contagion of Asiatic luxury . 
But the eunuchs were skilled in the arts of flattery and intrigue and they alternately governed the mind of Constantius by his fears , his indolence , and his vanity . 
imputes the first practice of castration to the cruel ingenuity of Semiramis , who is supposed to have reigned above nineteen hundred years before Christ . 
The use of eunuchs is of high antiquity , both in Asia and Egypt . 
They are mentioned in the law of Moses , Deuteron . 
See Goguet , Origines des Loix , c . 
Eunuchum dixti velle te Quia solae utuntur his reginae Terent . 
This play is translated from Meander , and the original must have appeared soon after the eastern conquests of Alexander . 
, and Dacier ad loe . 
By the word spado , the Romans very forcibly expressed their abhorrence of this mutilated condition . 
The Greek appellation of eunuchs , which insensibly prevailed , had a milder sound , and a more ambiguous sense . 
We need only mention Posides , a freedman and eunuch of Claudius , in whose favor the emperor prostituted some of the most honorable rewards of military valor . 
Posides employed a great part of his wealth in building . 
Ut Spado vincebat Capitolia Nostra Posides . 
See Dion Cassius , l . 
There is a passage in the Augustan History , p . 
, in which Lampridius , whilst he praises Alexander Severus and Constantine for restraining the tyranny of the eunuchs , deplores the mischiefs which they occasioned in other reigns . 
has stated the specious reasons which engaged Cyrus to intrust his person to the guard of eunuchs . 
But a long experience has contradicted the judgment of Cyrus . 
See Ammianus Marcellinus , l . 
The whole tenor of his impartial history serves to justify the invectives of Mamertinus , of Libanius , and of Julian himself , who have insulted the vices of the court of Constantius . 
Uti verum absolvam brevi , ut Imperatore ipso clarius ita apparitorum plerisque magis atrox nihil . 
Their prison was an ancient palace , the residence of the kings of Cappadocia the situation was pleasant , the buildings of stately , the enclosure spacious . 
Constantius continued his march towards the West , and Gallus fixed his residence at Antioch from whence , with a delegated authority , he administered the five great dioceses of the eastern praefecture . 
that Julian was concealed in the sanctuary of a church . 
Note Gallus and Julian were not sons of the same mother . 
Their father , Julius Constantius , had had Gallus by his first wife , named Galla Julian was the son of Basilina , whom he had espoused in a second marriage . 
G. The most authentic account of the education and adventures of Julian is contained in the epistle or manifesto which he himself addressed to the senate and people of Athens . 
on that of the Christians , have preserved several interesting circumstances . 
For the promotion of Gallus , see Idatius , Zosimus , and the two Victors . 
Theophilus , an Arian bishop , was the witness , and , as it were , the guarantee of this solemn engagement . 
thinks it very improbable that a heretic should have possessed such virtue . 
Transported from a prison to a throne , he possessed neither genius nor application , nor docility to compensate for the want of knowledge and experience . 
Constantina , his wife , is described , not as a woman , but as one of the infernal furies tormented with an insatiate thirst of human blood . 
The cruelty of Gallus was sometimes displayed in the undissembled violence of popular or military executions and was sometimes disguised by the abuse of law , and the forms of judicial proceedings . 
Every apartment of the palace was adorned with the instruments of death and torture , and a general consternation was diffused through the capital of Syria . 
ad S. P. Q. A. p . 
Aurelius Victor , Eutropius , x . 
Multis incivilibus gestis Gallus Caesar . 
vir natura ferox et ad tyrannidem pronior , si suo jure imperare licuisset . 
Megaera quidem mortalis , inflammatrix saevientis assidua , humani cruoris avida , c . 
The sincerity of Ammianus would not suffer him to misrepresent facts or characters , but his love of ambitious ornaments frequently betrayed him into an unnatural vehemence of expression . 
a very ample detail of the cruelties of Gallus . 
the persons engaged in it a minister of considerable rank , and two obscure agents , who were resolved to make their fortune . 
But when the victory was decided in favor of Constantius , his dependent colleague became less useful and less formidable . 
The rashness of the praefect disappointed these prudent measures , and hastened his own ruin , as well as that of his enemy . 
The nephew and daughter of Constantine , who could ill brook the insolence of a subject , expressed their resentment by instantly delivering Domitian to the custody of a guard . 
The quarrel still admitted of some terms of accommodation . 
They were rendered impracticable by the imprudent behavior of Montius , a statesman whose arts and experience were frequently betrayed by the levity of his disposition . 
By this rash declaration of war , the impatient temper of Gallus was provoked to embrace the most desperate counsels . 
He ordered his guards to stand to their arms , assembled the populace of Antioch , and recommended to their zeal the care of his safety and revenge . 
His commands were too fatally obeyed . 
The assassins had seduced a great number of legionaries but their designs were discovered and revealed by an old woman in whose cottage they lodged . 
The commission seems to have been granted to Domitian alone . 
Montius interfered to support his authority . 
M In the present text of Ammianus , we read Asper , quidem , sed ad lenitatem propensior which forms a sentence of contradictory nonsense . 
With the aid of an old manuscript , Valesius has rectified the first of these corruptions , and we perceive a ray of light in the substitution of the word vafer . 
If we venture to change lenitatem into lexitatem , this alteration of a single letter will render the whole passage clear and consistent . 
though partial to Gallus , should not be entirely overlooked . 
After such a deed , whatever might have been the designs of Gallus , it was only in a field of battle that he could assert his innocence with any hope of success . 
But the mind of that prince was formed of an equal mixture of violence and weakness . 
But as it still appeared dangerous to arrest Gallus in his capital , the slow and safer arts of dissimulation were practised with success . 
After so many reciprocal injuries , Gallus had reason to fear and to distrust . 
She had preceded her husband , but died of a fever on the road at a little place in Bithynia , called Coenum Gallicanum . 
Chapter XIX Constantius Sole Emperor . 
After a long delay , the reluctant Caesar set forwards on his journey to the Imperial court . 
The progress of the journey might , however , have warned him of the impending danger . 
The dissimulation which had hitherto been preserved , was laid aside at Petovio , in Pannonia . 
The Thebaean legions , which were then quartered at Hadrianople , sent a deputation to Gallus , with a tender of their services . 
mentions three several legions which bore the name of Thebaean . 
The zeal of M. de Voltaire to destroy a despicable though celebrated legion , has tempted him on the slightest grounds to deny the existence of a Thenaean legion in the Roman armies . 
See Oeuvres de Voltaire , tom . 
now Fianone , near Pola . 
M. See the complete narrative of the journey and death of Gallus in Ammianus , l . 
But the former was partial towards an Arian monarch , and the latter transcribed , without choice or criticism , whatever he found in the writings of the ancients . 
Besides the reigning emperor , Julian alone survived , of all the numerous posterity of Constantius Chlorus . 
The misfortune of his royal birth involved him in the disgrace of Gallus . 
But in the school of adversity , Julian insensibly acquired the virtues of firmness and discretion . 
The gentleness and affability of manners , which his temper suggested and his situation imposed , insensibly engaged the affections of the strangers , as well as citizens , with whom he conversed . 
Julian himself in his epistle to the Athenians , draws a very lively and just picture of his own danger , and of his sentiments . 
Julian has worked the crimes and misfortunes of the family of Constantine into an allegorical fable , which is happily conceived and agreeably related . 
It forms the conclusion of the seventh Oration , from whence it has been detached and translated by the Abbe de la Bleterie , Vie de Jovien , tom . 
She was a native of Thessalonica , in Macedonia , of a noble family , and the daughter , as well as sister , of consuls . 
Her marriage with the emperor may be placed in the year . 
In a divided age , the historians of all parties agree in her praises . 
See their testimonies collected by Tillemont , Hist . 
Libanius and Gregory Nazianzen have exhausted the arts as well as the powers of their eloquence , to represent Julian as the first of heroes , or the worst of tyrants . 
He protests , however , that he then foresaw and foretold the calamities of the church and state . 
Whilst his hours were passed in studious retirement , the empress , resolute to achieve the generous design which she had undertaken , was not unmindful of the care of his fortune . 
The death of the late Caesar had left Constantius invested with the sole command , and oppressed by the accumulated weight , of a mighty empire . 
Before the wounds of civil discord could be healed , the provinces of Gaul were overwhelmed by a deluge of Barbarians . 
The Sarmatians no longer respected the barrier of the Danube . 
For the first time , Constantius sincerely acknowledged , that his single strength was unequal to such an extent of care and of dominion . 
Succumbere tot necessitatibus tamque crebris unum se , quod nunquam fecerat , aperte demonstrans . 
He then expresses , in their own words , the fattering assurances of the courtiers . 
Tantum a temperatis moribus Juliani differens fratris quantum inter Vespasiani filios fuit , Domitianum et Titum . 
The circumstances and education of the two brothers , were so nearly the same , as to afford a strong example of the innate difference of characters . 
ad S. P. Q. A. p . 
Julian did not yield till the gods had signified their will by repeated visions and omens . 
His piety then forbade him to resist . 
Militares omnes horrendo fragore scuta genibus illidentes quod est prosperitatis indicium plenum nam contra cum hastis clypei feriuntur , irae documentum est et doloris . 
Ammianus adds , with a nice distinction , Eumque ut potiori reverentia servaretur , nec supra modum laudabant nec infra quam decebat . 
His steps were watched , his correspondence was intercepted and he was obliged , by prudence , to decline the visits of his most intimate friends . 
The memory of his father and of his brothers reminded Julian of his own danger , and his apprehensions were increased by the recent and unworthy fate of Sylvanus . 
He assumed the purple at his head quarters of Cologne , and his active powers appeared to menace Italy with an invasion , and Milan with a siege . 
In this emergency , Ursicinus , a general of equal rank , regained , by an act of treachery , the favor which he had lost by his eminent services in the East . 
the distress of his new situation . 
The provision for his table was , however , so elegant and sumptuous , that the young philosopher rejected it with disdain . 
She was soon afterwards delivered of a son , who died immediately , quod obstetrix corrupta mercede , mox natum praesecto plusquam convenerat umbilico necavit . 
She accompanied the emperor and empress in their journey to Rome , and the latter , quaesitum venenum bibere per fraudem illexit , ut quotiescunque concepisset , immaturum abjicerit partum . 
Our physicians will determine whether there exists such a poison . 
For my own part I am inclined to hope that the public malignity imputed the effects of accident as the guilt of Eusebia . 
was perfectly well informed of the conduct and fate of Sylvanus . 
He himself was one of the few followers who attended Ursicinus in his dangerous enterprise . 
The protection of the Rhaetian frontier , and the persecution of the Catholic church , detained Constantius in Italy above eighteen months after the departure of Julian . 
Before the emperor returned into the East , he indulged his pride and curiosity in a visit to the ancient capital . 
Their streaming banners of silk , embossed with gold , and shaped in the form of dragons , waved round the person of the emperor . 
He was received by the magistrates and senate of Rome and the emperor surveyed , with attention , the civil honors of the republic , and the consular images of the noble families . 
The streets were lined with an innumerable multitude . 
His short visit of thirty days was employed in viewing the monuments of art and power which were scattered over the seven hills and the interjacent valleys . 
See The Pantheon The severe simplicity of the Pantheon For the particulars of the visit of Constantius to Rome , see Ammianus , l . 
We have only to add , that Themistius was appointed deputy from Constantinople , and that he composed his fourth oration for his ceremony . 
The satisfaction which Constantius had received from this journey excited him to the generous emulation of bestowing on the Romans some memorial of his own gratitude and munificence . 
The death of Constantine suspended the execution of his purpose , and this obelisk was destined by his son to the ancient capital of the empire . 
The obelisk of Constantius was landed about three miles from the city , and elevated , by the efforts of art and labor , in the great Circus of Rome . 
Another saying of Hormisdas is recorded , that one thing only had displeased him , to find that men died at Rome as well as elsewhere . 
we may consider it as a reproof of Roman vanity . 
The contrary sense would be that of a misanthrope . 
When Germanicus visited the ancient monuments of Thebes , the eldest of the priests explained to him the meaning of these hiero glyphics . 
But it seems probable , that before the useful invention of an alphabet , these natural or arbitrary signs were the common characters of the Egyptian nation . 
See Warburton's Divine Legation of Moses , vol . 
, and the learned , though confused , Dissertation of Bargaeus on Obelisks , inserted in the fourth volume of Graevius's Roman Antiquities , p . 
This dissertation is dedicated to Pope Sixtus V. , who erected the obelisk of Constantius in the square before the patriarchal church of at . 
It is doubtful whether the obelisk transported by Constantius to Rome now exists . 
raised , as he himself states , in the Circus Maximus , long before , by Augustus , or to the one brought by Constantius . 
The obelisk in the square before the church of St . 
John Lateran is ascribed not to Rameses the Great but to Thoutmos II . 
Lettre a M. de Blacas , p . 
M The departure of Constantius from Rome was hastened by the alarming intelligence of the distress and danger of the Illyrian provinces . 
The execution of this design was attended with more difficulty than glory . 
The territory of the Limigantes was protected against the Romans by the Danube , against the hostile Barbarians by the Teyss . 
They soon became the victims of the perfidy which they meditated . 
The Limigantes were permitted to pass the Danube and the emperor gave audience to the multitude in a large plain near the modern city of Buda . 
He had remarked the lofty stature and obsequious demeanor of Zizais , one of the noblest of their chiefs . 
The events of this Quadian and Sarmatian war are related by Ammianus , xvi . 
Reinesius reads Warrha , Warrha , Guerre , War . 
Wagner note as a mm . 
M. Genti Sarmatarum magno decori confidens apud eos regem dedit . 
In a pompous oration pronounced by Constantius himself , he expatiates on his own exploits with much vanity , and some truth Chapter XIX Constantius Sole Emperor . 
expressed his satisfaction that his brother , Constantius Caesar , had been taught wisdom by adversity . 
Narses , who was endowed with the most polite and amiable manners , endeavored , as far as was consistent with his duty , to soften the harshness of the message . 
A few days after the departure of Narses , three ambassadors were sent to the court of Sapor , who was already returned from the Scythian expedition to his ordinary residence of Ctesiphon . 
The dexterous fugitive promoted his interest by the same conduct which gratified his revenge . 
He incessantly urged the ambition of his new master to embrace the favorable opportunity when the bravest of the Palatine troops were employed with the emperor in a distant war on the Danube . 
He pressed Sapor to invade the exhausted and defenceless provinces of the East , with the numerous armies of Persia , now fortified by the alliance and accession of the fiercest Barbarians . 
The ambassadors of Rome retired without success , and a second embassy , of a still more honorable rank , was detained in strict confinement , and threatened either with death or exile . 
In Persian , Ten schah pour . 
M. Ammianus transcribes the haughty letter . 
takes notice of the silken covering . 
has informed us of his behavior . 
, and Valesius ad loc . 
was Eustathius the Cappadocian , the disciple of Jamblichus , and the friend of St . 
fondly attributes to this philosophic ambassador the glory of enchanting the Barbarian king by the persuasive charms of reason and eloquence . 
The decent and respectful behavior of Antoninus towards the Roman general , sets him in a very interesting light and Ammianus himself speaks of the traitor with some compassion and esteem . 
and the permanency of the Persian manners . 
In every age the Persians have been addicted to intemperance , and the wines of Shiraz have triumphed over the law of Mahomet . 
, and Voyages en Perse , tom , iii . 
Sapor appeared in the front , conspicuous by the splendor of his purple . 
On his left hand , the place of honor among the Orientals , Grumbates , king of the Chionites , displayed the stern countenance of an aged and renowned warrior . 
The monarch had reserved a similar place on his right hand for the king of the Albanians , who led his independent tribes from the shores of the Caspian . 
But the Persians were no sooner advanced into the plains of Mesopotamia , than they discovered that every precaution had been used which could retard their progress , or defeat their design . 
These perhaps were the barbarous tribes who inhabit the northern part of the present Schirwan , the Albania of the ancients . 
The latter represent them as constant allies of the Persians in their wars against Armenia and the Empire . 
A little after this period , a certain Schergir was their king , and it is of him doubtless Ammianus Marcellinus speaks . 
The emperor Constantius had recently conferred on Amida the honor of his own name , and the additional fortifications of strong walls and lofty towers . 
His first and most sanguine hopes depended on the success of a general assault . 
But the resources of a besieged city may be exhausted . 
The soldiers , the citizens , their wives , their children , all who had not time to escape through the opposite gate , were involved by the conquerors in a promiscuous massacre . 
For the description of Amida , see D'Herbelot , Bebliotheque Orientale , p . 
Histoire de Timur Bec , par Cherefeddin Ali , l . 
Voyages de Tavernier , tom . 
, and Voyages de Niebuhr , tom . 
The last of these travellers , a learned and accurate Dane , has given a plan of Amida , which illustrates the operations of the siege . 
The epithet of Kara is derived from the blackness of the stone which composes the strong and ancient wall of Amida . 
On the siege of Amida , see St . 
Besides the ordinary population , and those who took refuge from the country , it contained , soldiers . 
This interpretation is extremely doubtful . 
who acted an honorable part in the defence , and escaped with difficulty when the city was stormed by the Persians . 
Of these four nations , the Albanians are too well known to require any description . 
inhabited a large and level country , which still preserves their name , to the south of Khorasan , and the west of Hindostan . 
the Segestans , above fourscore years afterwards , appear as an independent nation , the ally of Persia . 
towards the confines of India and Scythia . 
Klaproth considers the real Albanians the same with the ancient Alani , and quotes a passage of the emperor Julian in support of his opinion . 
They are the Ossetae , now inhabiting part of Caucasus . 
M. The Vertae are still unknown . 
It is possible that the Chionites are the same as the Huns . 
These people were already known and we find from Armenian authors that they were making , at this period , incursions into Asia . 
They were often at war with the Persians . 
The name was perhaps pronounced differently in the East and in the West , and this prevents us from recognizing it . 
M. But the ruin of Amida was the safety of the Roman provinces . 
The strength as well as the spirit of the army with which Sapor took the field in the ensuing spring was no longer equal to the unbounded views of his ambition . 
Ammianus has marked the chronology of this year by three signs , which do not perfectly coincide with each other , or with the series of the history . 
See Harmer's Observations on Scripture vol . 
The progress of Sapor was checked by the overflowing of the Euphrates , which generally happens in July and August . 
Viaggi di Pietro della Valle , tom . 
When Sapor had taken Amida , after a siege of seventy three days , the autumn was far advanced . 
Autumno praecipiti haedorumque improbo sidere exorto . 
To reconcile these apparent contradictions , we must allow for some delay in the Persian king , some inaccuracy in the historian , and some disorder in the seasons . 
The account of these sieges is given by Ammianus , xx . 
The Christian bishop of Bezabde went to the camp of the king of Persia , to persuade him to check the waste of human blood Amm . 
M. For the identity of Virtha and Tecrit , see D'Anville , Geographie . 
For the siege of that castle by Timur Bec or Tamerlane , see Cherefeddin , l . 
The Persian biographer exaggerates the merit and difficulty of this exploit , which delivered the caravans of Bagdad from a formidable gang of robbers . 
Martin doubts whether it lay so much to the south . 
The word Girtha means in Syriac a castle or fortress , and might be applied to many places . 
represents the merit and disgrace of Ursicinus with that faithful attention which a soldier owed to his general . 
Some partiality may be suspected , yet the whole account is consistent and probable . 
Omisso vano incepto , hiematurus Antiochiae redit in Syriam aerumnosam , perpessus et ulcerum sed et atrocia , diuque deflenda . 
I expected some additional light from the recent labors of the learned Ernestus . 
has nothing better to suggest , and le menta with Gibbon , the silence of Ernesti . 
M. In the blind fury of civil discord , Constantius had abandoned to the Barbarians of Germany the countries of Gaul , which still acknowledged the authority of his rival . 
, besides a far greater number of towns and villages , were pillaged , and for the most part reduced to ashes . 
The diminished legions , destitute of pay and provisions , of arms and discipline , trembled at the approach , and even at the name , of the Barbarians . 
The ravages of the Germans , and the distress of Gaul , may be collected from Julian himself . 
ad S. P. Q. Athen . 
This name seems to be derived from the Toxandri of Pliny , and very frequently occurs in the histories of the middle age . 
Toxandria was a country of woods and morasses , which extended from the neighborhood of Tongres to the conflux of the Vahal and the Rhine . 
Chapter XIX Constantius Sole Emperor . 
The habits of temperance recommended in the schools , are still more essential in the severe discipline of a camp . 
The simple wants of nature regulated the measure of his food and sleep . 
Rejecting with disdain the delicacies provided for his table , he satisfied his appetite with the coarse and common fare which was allotted to the meanest soldiers . 
a conduct , which , in a prince of the house of Constantine , might justly excite the surprise of mankind . 
Aderat Latine quoque disserenti sufficiens sermo . 
But Julian , educated in the schools of Greece , always considered the language of the Romans as a foreign and popular dialect which he might use on necessary occasions . 
We are ignorant of the actual office of this excellent minister , whom Julian afterwards created praefect of Gaul . 
in which Julian deplores the loss of so valuable a friend , to whom he acknowledges himself indebted for his reputation . 
See La Bleterie , Preface a la Vie de lovien , p . 
Immediately after Julian had received the purple at Milan , he was sent into Gaul with a feeble retinue of three hundred and sixty soldiers . 
In his march from Autun , through the heart of the Gallic provinces , Julian embraced with ardor the earliest opportunity of signalizing his courage . 
Before the inevitable disorder could be remedied , two legions were destroyed and Julian was taught by experience that caution and vigilance are the most important lessons of the art of war . 
Aliis per Arbor quibusdam per Sedelaucum et Coram in debere firrantibus . 
I do not know what place can be meant by the mutilated name Arbor . 
Sedelanus is Saulieu , a small town of the department of the Cote d'Or , six leagues from Autun . 
Cora answers to the village of Cure , on the river of the same name , between Autun and Nevera Martin , ii . 
M. Note At Brocomages , Brumat , near Strasburgh . 
appears much better satisfied with the success of his first campaign than Julian himself who very fairly owns that he did nothing of consequence , and that he fled before the enemy . 
Marcellus was recalled , and gently dismissed from his office . 
A very judicious plan of operations was adopted for the approaching campaign . 
Libanius speaks rather more advantageously of the military talents of Marcellus , Orat . 
And Julian insinuates , that he would not have been so easily recalled , unless he had given other reasons of offence to the court , p . 
Severus , non discors , non arrogans , sed longa militiae frugalitate compertus et eum recta praeeuntem secuturus , ut duetorem morigeran miles . 
They employed three days , and as many nights , in transporting over the Rhine their military powers . 
The trumpets sounded , the military shout was heard through the field , and the two armies rushed with equal fury to the charge . 
The Caesar , who conducted in person his right wing , depended on the dexterity of his archers , and the weight of his cuirassiers . 
The conflict between the two lines of infantry was obstinate and bloody . 
Six thousand of the Alemanni were slain in the field , without including those who were drowned in the Rhine , or transfixed with darts while they attempted to swim across the river . 
Chnodomar himself was surrounded and taken prisoner , with three of his brave companions , who had devoted themselves to follow in life or death the fate of their chieftain . 
Chnodomar experienced an honorable treatment but the impatient Barbarian could not long survive his defeat , his confinement , and his exile . 
describes with his inflated eloquence the figure and character of Chnodomar . 
Decentium Caesarem superavit aequo marte congressus . 
After the battle , Julian ventured to revive the rigor of ancient discipline , by exposing these fugitives in female apparel to the derision of the whole camp . 
In the next campaign , these troops nobly retrieved their honor . 
speaks of the battle of Strasburgh with the modesty of conscious merit . 
We might attribute this extravagant number to the carelessness of transcribers , if this credulous or partial historian had not swelled the army of , Alemanni to an innumerable multitude of Barbarians , . 
It is our own fault if this detection does not inspire us with proper distrust on similar occasions . 
In the month of December , which followed the battle of Strasburgh , Julian attacked a body of six hundred Franks , who had thrown themselves into two castles on the Meuse . 
The obstinate resistance of this handful of Franks apprised Julian of the difficulties of the expedition which he meditated for the ensuing spring , against the whole body of the nation . 
His rapid diligence surprised and astonished the active Barbarians . 
The Chamavians submissively retired to their former habitations beyond the Rhine but the Salians were permitted to possess their new establishment of Toxandria , as the subjects and auxiliaries of the Roman empire . 
The treaty was ratified by solemn oaths and perpetual inspectors were appointed to reside among the Franks , with the authority of enforcing the strict observance of the conditions . 
An incident is related , interesting enough in itself , and by no means repugnant to the character of Julian , who ingeniously contrived both the plot and the catastrophe of the tragedy . 
When the Chamavians sued for peace , he required the son of their king , as the only hostage on whom he could rely . 
You had lost him by your fault . 
God and the Romans have restored him to you . 
I shall still preserve and educate the youth , rather as a monument of my own virtue , than as a pledge of your sincerity . 
Should you presume to violate the faith which you have sworn , the arms of the republic will avenge the perfidy , not on the innocent , but on the guilty . 
The Barbarians withdrew from his presence , impressed with the warmest sentiments of gratitude and admiration . 
draws a very lively picture of the manners of the Franks . 
ad S. P. Q. Athen . 
as a mean evasion , of the truth . 
by substituting another word , would suppress both the difficulty and the spirit of this passage . 
ad S. P. Q. Athen . 
This difference of treatment confirms the opinion that the Salian Franks were permitted to retain the settlements in Toxandria . 
Note A newly discovered fragment of Eunapius , whom Zosimus probably transcribed , illustrates this transaction . 
, and Eunapius in Niebuhr , Byzant . 
with all the amplifications of Grecian rhetoric but the silence of Libanius , of Ammianus , and of Julian himself , renders the truth of it extremely suspicious . 
It was not enough for Julian to have delivered the provinces of Gaul from the Barbarians of Germany . 
He aspired to emulate the glory of the first and most illustrious of the emperors after whose example , he composed his own commentaries of the Gallic war . 
Caesar has related , with conscious pride , the manner in which he twice passed the Rhine . 
Julian could boast , that before he assumed the title of Augustus , he had carried the Roman eagles beyond that great river in three successful expeditions . 
The villages on either side of the Meyn , which were plentifully stored with corn and cattle , felt the ravages of an invading army . 
The ground was already covered with snow and Julian , after repairing an ancient castle which had been erected by Trajan , granted a truce of ten months to the submissive Barbarians . 
His third expedition was still more splendid and important than the two former . 
But this judicious plan of defence was disconcerted by a skilful diversion . 
seems to have derived his information only from the Orations and the Epistles of Julian . 
The discourse which is addressed to the Athenians contains an accurate , though general , account of the war against the Germans . 
Julian ad S. P. Q. Athen . 
As soon as the valor and conduct of Julian had secured an interval of peace , he applied himself to a work more congenial to his humane and philosophic temper . 
The vanquished Germans had submitted to the just but humiliating condition of preparing and conveying the necessary materials . 
It was incumbent on the Caesar to provide for the subsistence , as well as for the safety , of the inhabitants and of the garrisons . 
The desertion of the former , and the mutiny of the latter , must have been the fatal and inevitable consequences of famine . 
The emperor parsimoniously refused to his soldiers the sums which he granted with a lavish and trembling hand to the Barbarians . 
Of these seven posts , four are at present towns of some consequence Bingen , Andernach , Bonn , and Nuyss . 
See D'Anville , Notice de l'Ancienne Gaule , p . 
Note Tricesimae , Kellen , Mannert , quoted by Wagner . 
Heraclea , Erkeleus in the district of Juliers . 
who gives a very particular account of the transaction . 
and the country which could bear so large an exportation , must already have attained an improved state of agriculture . 
The troops once broke out into a mutiny , immediately before the second passage of the Rhine . 
A tender regard for the peace and happiness of his subjects was the ruling principle which directed , or seemed to direct , the administration of Julian . 
He devoted the leisure of his winter quarters to the offices of civil government and affected to assume , with more pleasure , the character of a magistrate than that of a general . 
We may enjoy the pleasure of reading the sentiments of Julian , as he expresses them with warmth and freedom in a letter to one of his most intimate friends . 
Should I be condemned to suffer , I shall derive comfort from the testimony of a pure and upright conscience . 
The precarious and dependent situation of Julian displayed his virtues and concealed his defects . 
Yet the victories of Julian suspended , for a short time , the inroads of the Barbarians , and delayed the ruin of the Western Empire . 
Such a conduct almost justifies the encomium of Mamertinus . 
Ita illi anni spatia divisa sunt , ut aut Barbaros domitet , aut civibus jura restituat , perpetuum professus , aut contra hostem , aut contra vitia , certamen . 
The river bathed the foot of the walls and the town was accessible only by two wooden bridges . 
The severity of the climate was tempered by the neighborhood of the ocean and with some precautions , which experience had taught , the vine and fig tree were successfully cultivated . 
The licentiousness and corruption of Antioch recalled to the memory of Julian the severe and simple manners of his beloved Lutetia where the amusements of the theatre were unknown or despised . 
He indignantly contrasted the effeminate Syrians with the brave and honest simplicity of the Gauls , and almost forgave the intemperance , which was the only stain of the Celtic character . 
Julian , in Misopogon , p . 
Leuce tia , or Lutetia , was the ancient name of the city , which , according to the fashion of the fourth century , assumed the territorial appellation of Parisii . 
Julian in Misopogon , p . 
Chapter XX Conversion Of Constantine . 
Part I. The Motives , Progress , And Effects Of The Conversion Of Constantine . 
Legal Establishment And Constitution Of The Christian Or Catholic Church . 
The public establishment of Christianity may be considered as one of those important and domestic revolutions which excite the most lively curiosity , and afford the most valuable instruction . 
The learned Eusebius has ascribed the faith of Constantine to the miraculous sign which was displayed in the heavens whilst he meditated and prepared the Italian expedition . 
The historian Zosimus maliciously asserts , that the emperor had imbrued his hands in the blood of his eldest son , before he publicly renounced the gods of Rome and of his ancestors . 
The perplexity produced by these discordant authorities is derived from the behavior of Constantine himself . 
While this important revolution yet remained in suspense , the Christians and the Pagans watched the conduct of their sovereign with the same anxiety , but with very opposite sentiments . 
The former were prompted by every motive of zeal , as well as vanity , to exaggerate the marks of his favor , and the evidences of his faith . 
Lardner's Credibility , part ii . 
The first and most important of these passages is indeed wanting in twenty eight manuscripts but it is found in nineteen . 
has felt the genuine style of Lactantius . 
immediately before his baptism and death . 
The legend of Constantine's baptism at Rome , thirteen years before his death , was invented in the eighth century , as a proper motive for his donation . 
declared himself the unblushing advocate , is now feebly supported , even within the verge of the Vatican . 
See the Antiquitates Christianae , tom . 
a work published with six approbations at Rome , in the year by Father Mamachi , a learned Dominican . 
The minister of ecclesiastical affairs was allowed a more devout and respectful style , the legal , most holy , and Catholic worship . 
Constantine styles the Lord's day dies solis , a name which could not offend the ears of his pagan subjects . 
censures his profane conduct with truth and asperity . 
that she herself was indebted to Constantine for the knowledge of Christianity . 
See the medals of Constantine in Ducange and Banduri . 
As few cities had retained the privilege of coining , almost all the medals of that age issued from the mint under the sanction of the Imperial authority . 
has given a Greek translation of this perpetual edict , which refers to some provisional regulations . 
The wisdom of the emperors provided for the restitution of all the civil and religious rights of which the Christians had been so unjustly deprived . 
From these vague and indefinite expressions of piety , three suppositions may be deduced , of a different , but not of an incompatible nature . 
The mind of Constantine might fluctuate between the Pagan and the Christian religions . 
According to the loose and complying notions of Polytheism , he might acknowledge the God of the Christians as one of the many deities who compose the hierarchy of heaven . 
uses the following remarkable expression Summe rerum sator , cujus tot nomina sant , quot linguas gentium esse voluisti , quem enim te ipse dici velin , scire non possumus . 
In explaining Constantine's progress in the faith , Mosheim is ingenious , subtle , prolix . 
But the counsels of princes are more frequently influenced by views of temporal advantage , than by considerations of abstract and speculative truth . 
But the operation of the wisest laws is imperfect and precarious . 
They seldom inspire virtue , they cannot always restrain vice . 
Their power is insufficient to prohibit all that they condemn , nor can they always punish the actions which they prohibit . 
The legislators of antiquity had summoned to their aid the powers of education and of opinion . 
But every principle which had once maintained the vigor and purity of Rome and Sparta , was long since extinguished in a declining and despotic empire . 
Philosophy still exercised her temperate sway over the human mind , but the cause of virtue derived very feeble support from the influence of the Pagan superstition . 
who is much more perspicuous and positive than becomes a discreet prophet . 
The primitive Christians derived the institution of civil government , not from the consent of the people , but from the decrees of Heaven . 
The reigning emperor , though he had usurped the sceptre by treason and murder , immediately assumed the sacred character of vicegerent of the Deity . 
Perhaps the patience of the primitive church may be ascribed to its weakness , as well as to its virtue . 
A sect of unwarlike plebeians , without leaders , without arms , without fortifications , must have encountered inevitable destruction in a rash and fruitless resistance to the master of the Roman legions . 
The political system of the Christians is explained by Grotius , de Jure Belli et Pacis , l . 
Grotius was a republican and an exile , but the mildness of his temper inclined him to support the established powers . 
Tamen nunquam Albiniani , nec Nigriani vel Cassiani inveniri potuerunt Christiani . 
See Moyle's Works , vol . 
I name Bayle , for he was certainly the author of the Avis aux Refugies consult the Dictionnaire Critique de Chauffepie , tom . 
Buchanan is the earliest , or at least the most celebrated , of the reformers , who has justified the theory of resistance . 
See his Dialogue de Jure Regni apud Scotos , tom . 
In the general order of Providence , princes and tyrants are considered as the ministers of Heaven , appointed to rule or to chastise the nations of the earth . 
But sacred history affords many illustrious examples of the more immediate interposition of the Deity in the government of his chosen people . 
Galerius and Maximin , Maxentius and Licinius , were the rivals who shared with the favorite of heaven the provinces of the empire . 
The tragic deaths of Galerius and Maximin soon gratified the resentment , and fulfilled the sanguine expectations , of the Christians . 
The conduct of Licinius soon betrayed the reluctance with which he had consented to the wise and humane regulations of the edict of Milan . 
Eusebius in the course of his history , his life , and his oration , repeatedly inculcates the divine right of Constantine to the empire . 
Aurelius Victor mentions his cruelty in general terms . 
Chapter XX Conversion Of Constantine . 
Their warm and active loyalty exhausted in his favor every resource of human industry and they confidently expected that their strenuous efforts would be seconded by some divine and miraculous aid . 
The enemies of Constantine have imputed to interested motives the alliance which he insensibly contracted with the Catholic church , and which apparently contributed to the success of his ambition . 
Bentivoglio was curious , well informed , but somewhat partial . 
This careless temper of the Germans appears almost uniformly on the history of the conversion of each of the tribes . 
and the court even of his father had been filled with Christians . 
See the first book of the Life of Constantine , by Eusebius . 
De his qui arma projiciunt in pace , placuit eos abstinere a communione . 
The best critics apply these words to the peace of the church . 
Eusebius always considers the second civil war against Licinius as a sort of religious crusade . 
At the invitation of the tyrant , some Christian officers had resumed their zones or , in other words , had returned to the military service . 
The enthusiasm which inspired the troops , and perhaps the emperor himself , had sharpened their swords while it satisfied their conscience . 
The evidence of ecclesiastical history is prepared to affirm , that their expectations were justified by the conspicuous miracle to which the conversion of the first Christian emperor has been almost unanimously ascribed . 
It is described as a long pike intersected by a transversal beam . 
The silken veil , which hung down from the beam , was curiously inwrought with the images of the reigning monarch and his children . 
Its honors are still preserved on the medals of the Flavian family . 
Their grateful devotion has placed the monogram of Christ in the midst of the ensigns of Rome . 
Nomen ipsum crucis absit non modo a corpore civium Romano rum , sed etiam a cogitatione , oculis , auribus . 
Cicero pro Raberio , c . 
See Lipsius de Cruce , l . 
See Aurelius Victor , who considers this law as one of the examples of Constantine's piety . 
This statue , or at least the cross and inscription , may be ascribed with more probability to the second , or even third , visit of Constantine to Rome . 
Immediately after the defeat of Maxentius , the minds of the senate and people were scarcely ripe for this public monument . 
Agnoscas , regina , libens mea signa necesse est In quibus effigies crucis aut gemmata refulget Aut longis solido ex auro praefertur in hastis . 
Hoc signo invictus , transmissis Alpibus Ultor Servitium solvit miserabile Constantinus . 
Christus purpureum gemmanti textus in auro Signabat Labarum , clypeorum insignia Christus Scripserat ardebat summis crux addita cristis . 
The derivation and meaning of the word Labarum or Laborum , which is employed by Gregory Nazianzen , Ambrose , Prudentius , c . 
, in search of an etymology . 
See Ducange , in Gloss . 
sub voce Labarum , and Godefroy , ad Cod . 
has engraved a representation of the Labarum . 
Transversa X litera , summo capite circumflexo , Christum in scutis notat . 
Caecilius de M. P. c . 
which became extremely fashionable in the Christian world . 
Theophanes lived towards the end of the eighth century , almost five hundred years after Constantine . 
The Abbe du Voisin , p . 
, alleges several of these medals , and quotes a particular dissertation of a Jesuit the Pere de Grainville , on this subject . 
But the testimony of a contemporary writer , who in a formal treatise has avenged the cause of religion , bestows on the piety of the emperor a more awful and sublime character . 
Tertullian de Corona , c . 
has collected many similar passages on the virtues of the cross , which in the last age embarrassed our Protestant disputants . 
Manso has observed , that Gibbon ought not to have separated the vision of Constantine from the wonderful apparition in the sky , as the two wonders are closely connected in Eusebius . 
Manso , Leben Constantine , p . 
M. Caecilius de M. P. c . 
It is certain , that this historical declamation was composed and published while Licinius , sovereign of the East , still preserved the friendship of Constantine and of the Christians . 
Three arguments from the title of the book , and from the names of Donatus and Caecilius , are produced by the advocates for Lactantius . 
Each of these proofs is singly weak and defective but their concurrence has great weight . 
Caecilius de M. P. c . 
who ascribes to the success of Constantine the superior fame of his Labarum above the angel of Licinius . 
Yet even this angel is favorably entertained by Pagi , Tillemont , Fleury , c . 
, who are fond of increasing their stock of miracles . 
has discovered a vision of Antigonus , who assured his troops that he had seen a pentagon with these words , In this conquer . 
But Tollius has most inexcusably omitted to produce his authority , and his own character , literary as well as moral , is not free from reproach . 
Without insisting on the silence of Diodorus Plutarch , Justin , c . 
has collected nineteen military stratagems of Antigonus , is totally ignorant of this remarkable vision . 
Instinctu Divinitatis , mentis magnitudine . 
The inscription on the triumphal arch of Constantine , which has been copied by Baronius , Gruter , c . 
, may still be perused by every curious traveller . 
Habes profecto aliquid cum illa mente Divina secretum qua delegata nostra Diis Minoribus cura uni se tibi dignatur ostendere Panegyr . 
Nazarius and Eusebius are the two most celebrated orators , who , in studied panegyrics , have labored to exalt the glory of Constantine . 
The Christian fable of Eusebius , which , in the space of twenty six years , might arise from the original dream , is cast in a much more correct and elegant mould . 
The learned bishop of Caesarea appears to be sensible , that the recent discovery of this marvellous anecdote would excite some surprise and distrust among the most pious of his readers . 
But the Catholic church , both of the East and of the West , has adopted a prodigy which favors , or seems to favor , the popular worship of the cross . 
But the inscription may have been a later embellishment , or an interpretation of the meaning which the sign was construed to convey . 
Compare Heirichen , Excur in locum Eusebii , and the authors quoted . 
It is unnecessary to name the moderns , whose undistinguishing and ravenous appetite has swallowed even the Pagan bait of Nazarius . 
The apparitions of Castor and Pollux , particularly to announce the Macedonian victory , are attested by historians and public monuments . 
See Cicero de Natura Deorum , ii . 
The silence of the same Eusebius , in his Ecclesiastical History , is deeply felt by those advocates for the miracle who are not absolutely callous . 
The narrative of Constantine seems to indicate , that he saw the cross in the sky before he passed the Alps against Maxentius . 
The scene has been fixed by provincial vanity at Treves , Besancon , c . 
rejects with a sigh the useful Acts of Artemius , a veteran and a martyr , who attests as an eye witness to the vision of Constantine . 
that they were all unacquainted with the life of Constantine by Eusebius . 
This tract was recovered by the diligence of those who translated or continued his Ecclesiastical History , and who have represented in various colors the vision of the cross . 
expressed any doubt of a miracle which had been supported with equal zeal by Cardinal Baronius , and the Centuriators of Magdeburgh . 
Since that time , many of the Protestant critics have inclined towards doubt and disbelief . 
and , in the year , a doctor of Sorbonne , the Abbe du Veisin published an apology , which deserves the praise of learning and moderation . 
contains a full summary of the opinions and arguments of the later writers who have discussed this interminable subject . 
he used the altars of the church as a convenient footstool to the throne of the empire . 
A conclusion so harsh and so absolute is not , however , warranted by our knowledge of human nature , of Constantine , or of Christianity . 
Lors Constantin dit ces propres paroles J'ai renverse le culte des idoles Sur les debris de leurs temples fumans Au Dieu du Ciel j'ai prodigue l'encens . 
Mais tous mes soins pour sa grandeur supreme N'eurent jamais d'autre objet que moi meme Les saints autels n'etoient a mes regards Qu'un marchepie du trone des Cesars . 
L'ambition , la fureur , les delices Etoient mes Dieux , avoient mes sacrifices . 
L'or des Chretiens , leur intrigues , leur sang Ont cimente ma fortune et mon rang . 
The poem which contains these lines may be read with pleasure , but cannot be named with decency . 
This favorite was probably the great Osius , bishop of Cordova , who preferred the pastoral care of the whole church to the government of a particular diocese . 
Osius was accused , perhaps unjustly , of retiring from court with a very ample fortune . 
The Christianity of Lactantius was of a moral rather than of a mysterious cast . 
disciplinae Christianae , et in rhetorica melius quam in theologia versatus . 
Defensio Fidei Nicenae , sect . 
Fabricius , with his usual diligence , has collected a list of between three and four hundred authors quoted in the Evangelical Preparation of Eusebius . 
He chiefly depends on a mysterious acrostic , composed in the sixth age after the Deluge , by the Erythraean Sibyl , and translated by Cicero into Latin . 
The initial letters of the thirty four Greek verses form this prophetic sentence Jesus Christ , Son of God , Savior of the World . 
In his paraphrase of Virgil , the emperor has frequently assisted and improved the literal sense of the Latin ext . 
See Blondel des Sibylles , l . 
See Lowth de Sacra Poesi Hebraeorum Praelect . 
Chapter XX Conversion Of Constantine . 
but as , on this subject , the Papists may reasonably be suspected , a Protestant reader will depend with more confidence on the learned Bingham , Antiquities , l . 
, and the whole tenor of Constantine's Sermon . 
The faith and devotion of the emperor has furnished Batonics with a specious argument in favor of his early baptism . 
Note Compare Heinichen , Excursus iv . 
, where these questions are examined with candor and acuteness , and with constant reference to the opinions of more modern writers . 
The sublime theory of the gospel had made a much fainter impression on the heart than on the understanding of Constantine himself . 
The example and reputation of Constantine seemed to countenance the delay of baptism . 
The theory and practice of antiquity , with regard to the sacrament of baptism , have been copiously explained by Dom Chardon , Hist . 
Dom Martenne de Ritibus Ecclesiae Antiquis , tom . 
and by Bingham , in the tenth and eleventh books of his Christian Antiquities . 
One circumstance may be observed , in which the modern churches have materially departed from the ancient custom . 
was immediately followed by confirmation and the holy communion . 
The Fathers , who censured this criminal delay , could not deny the certain and victorious efficacy even of a death bed baptism . 
The ingenious rhetoric of Chrysostom could find only three arguments against these prudent Christians . 
That we should love and pursue virtue for her own sake , and not merely for the reward . 
That we may be surprised by death without an opportunity of baptism . 
The zeal of the bishops was easily kindled on much slighter occasion . 
Note This passage of Chrysostom , though not in his more forcible manner , is not quite fairly represented . 
He is stronger in other places , in Act . 
Compare , likewise , the sermon of Gregory of Nysea on this subject , and Gregory Nazianzen . 
After all , to those who believed in the efficacy of baptism , what argument could be more conclusive , than the danger of dying without it ? Orat . 
who had occasion to employ the infidel on a particular service against the Arian Eusebius . 
Note Heyne , in a valuable note on this passage of Zosimus , has shown decisively that this malicious way of accounting for the conversion of Constantine was not an invention of Zosimus . 
It appears to have been the current calumny eagerly adopted and propagated by the exasperated Pagan party . 
The bishop of Caesarea supposes the salvation of Constantine with the most perfect confidence . 
Such a comparison , if it allude to the character of those divine missionaries , must be imputed to the extravagance of impious flattery . 
But if the parallel be confined to the extent and number of their evangelic victories the success of Constantine might perhaps equal that of the Apostles themselves . 
The powerful influence of Constantine was not circumscribed by the narrow limits of his life , or of his dominions . 
The rays of the gospel illuminated the coast of India . 
Under the reign of his son Constantius , Theophilus , who was himself of Indian extraction , was invested with the double character of ambassador and bishop . 
He embarked on the Red Sea with two hundred horses of the purest breed of Cappadocia , which were sent by the emperor to the prince of the Sabaeans , or Homerites . 
The Greeks , the Russians , and , in the darker ages , the Latins themselves , have been desirous of placing Constantine in the catalogue of saints . 
See the third and fourth books of his life . 
has defended , with strength and spirit , the virgin purity of Constantinople against some malevolent insinuations of the Pagan Zosimus . 
condemns a law of Constantine , which gave freedom to all the slaves who should embrace Christianity . 
The emperor did indeed publish a law , which restrained the Jews from circumcising , perhaps from keeping , any Christian slave . 
I am ignorant by what guides the Abbe Raynal was deceived as the total absence of quotations is the unpardonable blemish of his entertaining history . 
See Acta S Silvestri , and Hist . 
A. D. , No. , . 
Such evidence is contemptible enough but these circumstances are in themselves so probable , that the learned Dr . 
has not scrupled to adopt them . 
The conversion of the Barbarians under the reign of Constantine is celebrated by the ecclesiastical historians . 
But Rufinus , the Latin translator of Eusebius , deserves to be considered as an original authority . 
His information was curiously collected from one of the companions of the Apostle of Aethiopia , and from Bacurius , an Iberian prince , who was count of the domestics . 
Father Mamachi has given an ample compilation on the progress of Christianity , in the first and second volumes of his great but imperfect work . 
was converted by the virgin Nino , who effected an extraordinary cure on the wife of the king Mihran . 
The temple of the god Aramazt , or Armaz , not far from the capital Mtskitha , was destroyed , and the cross erected in its place . 
Gibbon himself suspected this truth . 
the pressing and pathetic epistle of Constantine in favor of his Christian brethren of Persia . 
The curious diligence of this writer pursues the Jewish exiles to the extremities of the globe . 
Abba Salama , or Fremonatus , is mentioned in the Tareek Negushti , chronicle of the kings of Abyssinia . 
M. Theophilus had been given in his infancy as a hostage by his countrymen of the Isle of Diva , and was educated by the Romans in learning and piety . 
The Maldives , of which Male , or Diva , may be the capital , are a cluster of or minute islands in the Indian Ocean . 
The ancients were imperfectly acquainted with the Maldives but they are described in the two Mahometan travellers of the ninth century , published by Renaudot , Geograph . 
, D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale p . 
Generale des Voy ages , tom . 
! See the dissertation of M. Letronne on this question . 
He conceives that Theophilus was born in the island of Dahlak , in the Arabian Gulf . 
His embassy was to Abyssinia rather than to India . 
Letronne , Materiaux pour l'Hist . 
du Christianisme en Egypte Indie , et Abyssinie . 
, , , with Godefroy's learned observations . 
The historical narrative is soon lost in an inquiry concerning the seat of Paradise , strange monsters , c . 
The irresistible power of the Roman emperors was displayed in the important and dangerous change of the national religion . 
See the epistle of Osius , ap . 
The public remonstrance which Osius was forced to address to the son , contained the same principles of ecclesiastical and civil government which he had secretly instilled into the mind of the father . 
M. de la Bastiel has evidently proved , that Augustus and his successors exercised in person all the sacred functions of pontifex maximus , of high priest , of the Roman empire . 
Sulpicius Severus , in Vit . 
Yet it may be doubted , whether these extraordinary compliments were paid to the bishop or the saint . 
The honors usually granted to the former character may be seen in Bingham's Antiquities , l . 
, and Vales ad Theodoret , l . 
See the haughty ceremonial which Leontius , bishop of Tripoli , imposed on the empress . 
Episcopal churches were closely planted along the banks of the Nile , on the sea coast of Africa , in the proconsular Asia , and through the southern provinces of Italy . 
The bishops of Gaul and Spain , of Thrace and Pontus , reigned over an ample territory , and delegated their rural suffragans to execute the subordinate duties of the pastoral office . 
The important review of their station and attributes may be distributed under the following heads I. Popular Election . 
The numbers are not ascertained by any ancient writer or original catalogue for the partial lists of the eastern churches are comparatively modern . 
The ninth book of the Christian antiquities is a very accurate map of ecclesiastical geography . 
On the subject of rural bishops , or Chorepiscopi , who voted in tynods , and conferred the minor orders , See Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
, and Chardon , Hist . 
These acclamations might accidentally fix on the head of the most deserving competitor of some ancient presbyter , some holy monk , or some layman , conspicuous for his zeal and piety . 
But the episcopal chair was solicited , especially in the great and opulent cities of the empire , as a temporal rather than as a spiritual dignity . 
The canons of ancient discipline , by requiring several episcopal qualifications , of age , station , c . 
, restrained , in some measure , the indiscriminate caprice of the electors . 
The authority of the provincial bishops , who were assembled in the vacant church to consecrate the choice of the people , was interposed to moderate their passions and to correct their mistakes . 
The bishops could refuse to ordain an unworthy candidate , and the rage of contending factions sometimes accepted their impartial mediation . 
The discipline of the West was indeed less relaxed than that of the East but the same passions which made those regulations necessary , rendered them ineffectual . 
The reproaches which angry prelates have so vehemently urged against each other , serve only to expose their common guilt , and their mutual indiscretion . 
is very clear and concise . 
Although it appears by the letters of Cyprian , that even in his time , no priest could be elected without the consent of the community . 
that election was far from being altogether free . 
The bishop proposed to his parishioners the candidate whom he had chosen , and they were permitted to make such objections as might be suggested by his conduct and morals . 
They lost this last right towards the middle of the fourth century . 
sed etiam ex vicinis urbibus ad suffragia ferenda convenerat , c . 
Sulpicius Severus , in Vit . 
prohibits mobs and tumults and Justinian confines confined the right of election to the nobility . 
exhibit some of the scandals of the Gallican church and Gaul was less polished and less corrupt than the East . 
A compromise was sometimes introduced by law or by consent either the bishops or the people chose one of the three candidates who had been named by the other party . 
appear to be extraordinary acts of power , and even of oppression . 
The confirmation of the bishop of Alexandria is mentioned by Philostorgius as a more regular proceeding . 
Planck , Geschichte der Christlich kirchlichen Gesellschafteverfassung , verfassung , vol . 
The religions of antiquity , which established a separate order of priests , dedicated a holy race , a tribe or family , to the perpetual service of the gods . 
Such institutions were founded for possession , rather than conquest . 
But the Christian sanctuary was open to every ambitious candidate , who aspired to its heavenly promises or temporal possessions . 
might constrain the reluctant , and protect the distressed and the imposition of hands forever bestowed some of the most valuable privileges of civil society . 
The clerical name and privileges were extended to many pious fraternities , who devoutly supported the ecclesiastical throne . 
The celibacy of the clergy during the first five or six centuries , is a subject of discipline , and indeed of controversy , which has been very diligently examined . 
See in particular , Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
, and Bingham's Antiquities , l . 
By each of these learned but partial critics , one half of the truth is produced , and the other is concealed . 
This century , the third , first brought forth the monks , or the spirit of monkery , the celibacy of the clergy . 
Planck likewise observes , that from the history of Eusebius alone , names of married bishops and presbyters may be adduced by dozens . 
The magi are described by Ammianus as a very numerous family Per saecula multa ad praesens una eademque prosapia multitudo creata , Deorum cultibus dedicata . 
that in the Celtic hierarchy , some room was left for choice and emulation . 
The subject of the vocation , ordination , obedience , c . 
When the brother of St . 
Jerom was ordained in Cyprus , the deacons forcibly stopped his mouth , lest he should make a solemn protestation , which might invalidate the holy rites . 
This exemption was very much limited . 
The municipal offices were of two kinds the one attached to the individual in his character of inhabitant , the other in that of proprietor . 
Constantine had exempted ecclesiastics from offices of the first description . 
The rich , to obtain this privilege , obtained subordinate situations among the clergy . 
He also enacted that ecclesiastics , who wished to be exempt from offices which they were bound to discharge as proprietors , should be obliged to give up their property to their relations . 
This moderate number was fixed by the emperor to relieve the distress of the church , which had been involved in debt and usury by the expense of a much higher establishment . 
fere quingenti vei amplius inter quos quamplurima erant lectores infantuli . 
Victor Vitensis , de Persecut . 
This remnant of a more prosperous state still subsisted under the oppression of the Vandals . 
The number of seven orders has been fixed in the Latin church , exclusive of the episcopal character . 
But the four inferior ranks , the minor orders , are now reduced to empty and useless titles . 
Godefroy's Commentary , and the Ecclesiastical History of Alexandria , show the danger of these pious institutions , which often disturbed the peace of that turbulent capital . 
Chapter XX Conversion Of Constantine . 
The edict of Milan secured the revenue as well as the peace of the church . 
But as the wants and expenses of the church increased with her prosperity , the ecclesiastical order was still supported and enriched by the voluntary oblations of the faithful . 
The wealthy Christians were encouraged by the example of their sovereign . 
The same messenger who carried over to Africa the head of Maxentius , might be intrusted with an epistle to Caecilian , bishop of Carthage . 
The liberality of Constantine increased in a just proportion to his faith , and to his vices . 
The Christian temples of Antioch , Alexandria , Jerusalem , Constantinople c . 
, displayed the ostentatious piety of a prince , ambitious in a declining age to equal the perfect labors of antiquity . 
The form of these religious edifices was simple and oblong though they might sometimes swell into the shape of a dome , and sometimes branch into the figure of a cross . 
An authentic but imperfect rent roll specifies some houses , shops , gardens , and farms , which belonged to the three Basilicoe of Rome , St . 
John Lateran , in the provinces of Italy , Africa , and the East . 
They produce , besides a reserved rent of oil , linen , paper , aromatics , c . 
, a clear annual revenue of twenty two thousand pieces of gold , or twelve thousand pounds sterling . 
In the age of Constantine and Justinian , the bishops no longer possessed , perhaps they no longer deserved , the unsuspecting confidence of their clergy and people . 
The patrimony of the church was still subject to all the public compositions of the state . 
The clergy of Rome , Alexandria , Chessaionica , c . 
, might solicit and obtain some partial exemptions but the premature attempt of the great council of Rimini , which aspired to universal freedom , was successfully resisted by the son of Constantine . 
acknowledges , by reciting , that there existed a species of landed property , ad jus corporis eorum , id est , ecclesiarum non hominum singulorum pertinentia . 
Such a solemn declaration of the supreme magistrate must have been received in all the tribunals as a maxim of civil law . 
venerabilique concilio , decedens bonorum quod optavit relinquere . 
This law was published at Rome , A. D. , at a time when Constantine might foresee the probability of a rupture with the emperor of the East . 
He repeatedly expatiates on the liberality of the Christian hero , which the bishop himself had an opportunity of knowing , and even of lasting . 
a short account of the architecture and ornaments . 
See Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
The legal division of the ecclesiastical revenue does not appear to have been established in the time of Ambrose and Chrysostom . 
Ambrose , the most strenuous assertor of ecclesiastical privileges , submits without a murmur to the payment of the land tax . 
Si tri butum petit Imperator , non negamus agri ecclesiae solvunt tributum solvimus quae sunt Caesaris Caesari , et quae sunt Dei Deo tributum Caesaris est non negatur . 
but the words , if not the intentions of Ambrose are more candidly explained by Thomassin , Discipline de l'Eglise , tom . 
Had the synod of Rimini carried this point , such practical merit might have atoned for some speculative heresies . 
But the liberality of the Christian emperors had actually endowed them with some legal prerogatives , which secured and dignified the sacerdotal character . 
The domestic jurisdiction of the bishops was at once a privilege and a restraint of the ecclesiastical order , whose civil causes were decently withdrawn from the cognizance of a secular judge . 
The conversion of the magistrates themselves , and of the whole empire , might gradually remove the fears and scruples of the Christians . 
The ancient privilege of sanctuary was transferred to the Christian temples , and extended , by the liberal piety of the younger Theodosius , to the precincts of consecrated ground . 
The fugitive , and even guilty suppliants , were permitted to implore either the justice , or the mercy , of the Deity and his ministers . 
The rash violence of despotism was suspended by the mild interposition of the church and the lives or fortunes of the most eminent subjects might be protected by the mediation of the bishop . 
is demonstrated by Godefroy in the most satisfactory manner . 
The subject of ecclesiastical jurisdiction has been involved in a mist of passion , of prejudice , and of interest . 
Their moderation was the effect of situation as well as of temper . 
Fleury was a French ecclesiastic , who respected the authority of the parliaments Giannone was an Italian lawyer , who dreaded the power of the church . 
Tillemont has collected from Rufinus , Theodoret , c . 
, the sentiments and language of Constantine . 
In the works of Fra Paolo . 
there is an excellent discourse on the origin , claims , abuses , and limits of sanctuaries . 
He justly observes , that ancient Greece might perhaps contain fifteen or twenty axyla or sanctuaries a number which at present may be found in Italy within the walls of a single city . 
Athanasius excommunicated one of the ministers of Egypt and the interdict which he pronounced , of fire and water , was solemnly transmitted to the churches of Cappadocia . 
Such principles and such examples insensibly prepared the triumph of the Roman pontiffs , who have trampled on the necks of kings . 
The penitential jurisprudence was continually improved by the canons of the councils . 
Among the canonical epistles of the fourth century , those of Basil the Great were the most celebrated . 
They are inserted in the Pandects of Beveridge , and are translated by Chardon , Hist . 
Such a pure and illustrious pedigree of seventeen hundred years , without adding the royal ancestors of Hercules , cannot be equalled in the history of mankind . 
pathetically deplores the fallen and ruined state of Cyrene . 
Ptolemais , a new city , miles to the westward of Cyrene , assumed the metropolitan honors of the Pentapolis , or Upper Libya , which were afterwards transferred to Sozusa . 
Synesius had previously represented his own disqualifications . 
Theophilus primate of Egypt , who knew his merit , accepted this extraordinary compromise . 
The promotion of Andronicus was illegal since he was a native of Berenice , in the same province . 
The instruments of torture are curiously specified the press that variously pressed on distended the fingers , the feet , the nose , the ears , and the lips of the victims . 
The sentence of excommunication is expressed in a rhetorical style . 
The method of involving whole families , though somewhat unjust , was improved into national interdicts . 
Every popular government has experienced the effects of rude or artificial eloquence . 
The design of this institution was laudable , but the fruits were not always salutary . 
The preachers recommended the practice of the social duties but they exalted the perfection of monastic virtue , which is painful to the individual , and useless to mankind . 
Their charitable exhortations betrayed a secret wish that the clergy might be permitted to manage the wealth of the faithful , for the benefit of the poor . 
When the public peace was distracted by heresy and schism , the sacred orators sounded the trumpet of discord , and , perhaps , of sedition . 
Preaching was considered as the most important office of the bishop but this function was sometimes intrusted to such presbyters as Chrysoetom and Augustin . 
Queen Elizabeth used this expression , and practised this art whenever she wished to prepossess the minds of her people in favor of any extraordinary measure of government . 
The hostile effects of this music were apprehended by her successor , and severely felt by his son . 
When pulpit , drum ecclesiastic , c . 
See Heylin's Life of Archbishop Laud , p . 
Those modest orators acknowledged , that , as they were destitute of the gift of miracles , they endeavored to acquire the arts of eloquence . 
The primates of Rome , Alexandria , Antioch , Carthage , and afterwards Constantinople , who exercised a more ample jurisdiction , convened the numerous assembly of their dependent bishops . 
But the convocation of great and extraordinary synods was the prerogative of the emperor alone . 
The session , which lasted about two months , was frequently honored by the presence of the emperor . 
on a low stool in the midst of the hall . 
Within the space of fifty years , a philosophic spectator of the vicissitudes of human affairs might have contemplated Tacitus in the senate of Rome , and Constantine in the council of Nice . 
The council of Nice , in the fourth , fifth , sixth , and seventh canons , has made some fundamental regulations concerning synods , metropolitan , and primates . 
The Nicene canons have been variously tortured , abused , interpolated , or forged , according to the interest of the clergy . 
We have only thirty three or forty seven episcopal subscriptions but Addo , a writer indeed of small account , reckons six hundred bishops in the council of Arles . 
, and Beausobre , Hist . 
du Mani cheisme , tom i p . 
must be extended far beyond the limits of an orthodox or even episcopal ordination . 
Sancimus igitur vicem legum obtinere , quae a quatuor Sanctis Coueiliis . 
Praedictarum enim quat uor synodorum dogmata sicut sanctas Scripturas et regulas sicut leges observamus . 
remarks , that the emperors never made new laws in ecclesiastical matters and Giannone observes , in a very different spirit , that they gave a legal sanction to the canons of councils . 
Istoria Civile di Napoli , tom . 
See the article Concile in the Eucyclopedie , tom . 
have reason to be proud of this article . 
Those who consult their immense compilation , seldom depart so well satisfied . 
Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
Part I. Persecution Of Heresy . 
The Schism Of The Donatists . 
Distracted State Of The Church And Empire Under Constantine And His Sons . 
The grateful applause of the clergy has consecrated the memory of a prince who indulged their passions and promoted their interest . 
Constantine gave them security , wealth , honors , and revenge and the support of the orthodox faith was considered as the most sacred and important duty of the civil magistrate . 
The edict of Milan , the great charter of toleration , had confirmed to each individual of the Roman world the privilege of choosing and professing his own religion . 
But as the sectaries might still exist under the cloud of royal disgrace , the conquest of the East was immediately followed by an edict which announced their total destruction . 
The design of extirpating the name , or at least of restraining the progress , of these odious Heretics , was prosecuted with vigor and effect . 
Two immaterial circumstances may serve , however , to prove that the mind of Constantine was not entirely corrupted by the spirit of zeal and bigotry . 
Before he condemned the Manichaeans and their kindred sects , he resolved to make an accurate inquiry into the nature of their religious principles . 
After some examination of the various opinions of Tillemont , Beausobre , Lardner , c . 
, I am convinced that Manes did not propagate his sect , even in Persia , before the year . 
Constantinus enim , cum limatius superstitionum quaeroret sectas , Manichaeorum et similium , c . 
Strategius , who from this commission obtained the surname of Musonianus , was a Christian of the Arian sect . 
He acted as one of the counts at the council of Sardica . 
Libanius praises his mildness and prudence . 
As the general law is not inserted in the Theodosian Code , it probable that , in the year , the sects which it had condemned were already extinct . 
These historians have been suspected , but I think without reason , of an attachment to the Novatian doctrine . 
The emperor said to the bishop , Acesius , take a ladder , and get up to heaven by yourself . 
Most of the Christian sects have , by turns , borrowed the ladder of Acesius . 
He learned , with surprise , that the provinces of that great country , from the confines of Cyrene to the columns of Hercules , were distracted with religious discord . 
The source of the division was derived from a double election in the church of Carthage the second , in rank and opulence , of the ecclesiastical thrones of the West . 
As their cause was examined with attention , perhaps it was determined with justice . 
Perhaps their complaint was not without foundation , that the credulity of the emperor had been abused by the insidious arts of his favorite Osius . 
The influence of falsehood and corruption might procure the condemnation of the innocent , or aggravate the sentence of the guilty . 
by M. Dupin , who has enriched it with critical notes , geographical discussions , original records , and an accurate abridgment of the whole controversy . 
and I am indebted to him for an ample collection of all the passages of his favorite St . 
Augustin , which relate to those heretics . 
Schisma igitur illo tempore confusae mulieris iracundia peperit ambitus nutrivit avaritia roboravit . 
The language of Purpurius is that of a furious madman . 
Dicitur te necasse lilios sororis tuae duos . 
Purpurius respondit Putas me terreri a te . 
occidi et occido eos qui contra me faciunt . 
The inflexible zeal of freedom and fanaticism animated the Donatists to refuse obedience to the usurpers , whose election they disputed , and whose spiritual powers they denied . 
This rigid theory was supported by the most uncharitable conduct . 
Bishops , virgins , and even spotless infants , were subjected to the disgrace of a public penance , before they could be admitted to the communion of the Donatists . 
But the invincible spirit of the sect sometimes preyed on its own vitals and the bosom of their schismatical church was torn by intestine divisions . 
A fourth part of the Donatist bishops followed the independent standard of the Maximianists . 
The narrow and solitary path which their first leaders had marked out , continued to deviate from the great society of mankind . 
The councils of Arles , of Nice , and of Trent , confirmed the wise and moderate practice of the church of Rome . 
The Donatists , however , had the advantage of maintaining the sentiment of Cyprian , and of a considerable part of the primitive church . 
has explained why the Donatists are eternally burning with the Devil , while St . 
Cyprian reigns in heaven with Jesus Christ . 
See the sixth book of Optatus Milevitanus , p . 
He laughs at their partial credulity . 
He revered Augustin , the great doctor of the system of predestination . 
The schism of the Donatists was confined to Africa the more diffusive mischief of the Trinitarian controversy successively penetrated into every part of the Christian world . 
The former was an accidental quarrel , occasioned by the abuse of freedom the latter was a high and mysterious argument , derived from the abuse of philosophy . 
From the age of Constantine to that of Clovis and Theodoric , the temporal interests both of the Romans and Barbarians were deeply involved in the theological disputes of Arianism . 
The genius of Plato , informed by his own meditation , or by the traditional knowledge of the priests of Egypt , had ventured to explore the mysterious nature of the Deity . 
Plato Aegyptum peragravit ut a sacerdotibus Barbaris numeros et coelestia acciperet . 
Cicero de Finibus , v . 
The Egyptians might still preserve the traditional creed of the Patriarchs . 
This exposition of the doctrine of Plato appears to me contrary to the true sense of that philosopher's writings . 
In my opinion , there is no Trinity in Plato he has established no mysterious generation between the three pretended principles which he is made to distinguish . 
Finally , he conceives only as attributes of the Deity , or of matter , those ideas , of which it is supposed that he made substances , real beings . 
According to Plato , God and matter existed from all eternity . 
God wished to impress form upon matter , that is to say , . 
To mould matter , and make it into a body . 
To regulate its motion , and subject it to some end and to certain laws . 
The Deity , in this operation , could not act but according to the ideas existing in his intelligence their union filled this , and formed the ideal type of the world . 
and that he considered the as the aggregate of the ideas of God , the divine understanding in its relation to the world . 
The contrary opinion is irreconcilable with all his philosophy thus he says that to the idea of the Deity is essentially united that of intelligence , of a logos . 
He would thus have admitted a double logos one inherent in the Deity as an attribute , the other independently existing as a substance . 
When he speaks of the place occupied by the ideal world , it is to designate the divine intelligence , which is its cause . 
This error , into which many ancient as well as modern interpreters of Plato have fallen , was very natural . 
When Plato appeared , the uncertainty of human knowledge , and the continual illusions of the senses , were acknowledged , and had given rise to a general scepticism . 
G. We have retained this view of the original philosophy of Plato , in which there is probably much truth . 
The genius of Plato was rather metaphysical than impersonative his poetry was in his language , rather than , like that of the Orientals , in his conceptions . 
M. The modern guides who lead me to the knowledge of the Platonic system are Cudworth , Basnage , Le Clerc , and Brucker . 
As the learning of these writers was equal , and their intention different , an inquisitive observer may derive instruction from their disputes , and certainty from their agreement . 
A numerous colony of Jews had been invited , by the favor of the Ptolemies , to settle in their new capital . 
They cultivated with diligence , and embraced with ardor , the theological system of the Athenian sage . 
A similar union of the Mosaic faith and the Grecian philosophy , distinguishes the works of Philo , which were composed , for the most part , under the reign of Augustus . 
Note The philosophy of Plato was not the only source of that professed in the school of Alexandria . 
That city , in which Greek , Jewish , and Egyptian men of letters were assembled , was the scene of a strange fusion of the system of these three people . 
It is in Ecclesiasticus and the Wisdom of Solomon that we trace the influence of Oriental philosophy rather than that of Platonism . 
Thus God represented under the image of light , and the principle of evil under that of darkness the history of the good and bad angels paradise and hell , c . 
, are doctrines of which the origin , or at least the positive determination , can only be referred to the Oriental philosophy . 
Plato supposed matter eternal the Orientals and the Jews considered it as a creation of God , who alone was eternal . 
It is impossible to explain the philosophy of the Alexandrian school solely by the blending of the Jewish theology with the Greek philosophy . 
The Oriental philosophy , however little it may be known , is recognized at every instant . 
more ancient than the world , that Ormuzd created the universe . 
This word is the logos of Philo , consequently very different from that of Plato . 
I have shown that Plato never personified the logos as the ideal archetype of the world Philo ventured this personification . 
Philo , moreover , of all the Jews of Alexandria , is the one whose Platonism is the most pure . 
For the origin of the Jewish philosophy , see Eusebius , Praeparat . 
that they gave the preference to that of Plato . 
See Calmet , Dissertations sur la Bible , tom . 
has clearly ascertained , that the theological works of Philo were composed before the death , and most probably before the birth , of Christ . 
In such a time of darkness , the knowledge of Philo is more astonishing than his errors . 
Mens agitat molem , et magno se corpore miscet . 
in Amelius , Porphyry , Plotinus , and , as he thinks , in Plato himself , a superior , spiritual upercosmian soul of the universe . 
But this double soul is exploded by Brucker , Basnage , and Le Clerc , as an idle fancy of the latter Platonists . 
This notion , till it was abused by the Arians , was freely adopted in the Christian theology . 
has a remarkable and dangerous passage . 
Note Tertullian is here arguing against the Patripassians those who asserted that the Father was born of the Virgin , died and was buried . 
M. Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
I. The faith of the Ebionites , perhaps of the Nazarenes , was gross and imperfect . 
They revered Jesus as the greatest of the prophets , endowed with supernatural virtue and power . 
They ascribed to his person and to his future reign all the predictions of the Hebrew oracles which relate to the spiritual and everlasting kingdom of the promised Messiah . 
About fifty years afterwards , the Ebionites , whose errors are mentioned by Justin Martyr with less severity than they seem to deserve , formed a very inconsiderable portion of the Christian name . 
The Gnostics , who were distinguished by the epithet of Docetes , deviated into the contrary extreme and betrayed the human , while they asserted the divine , nature of Christ . 
The Platonists admired the beginning of the Gospel of St . 
John as containing an exact transcript of their own principles . 
But in the third and fourth centuries , the Platonists of Alexandria might improve their Trinity by the secret study of the Christian theology . 
Note A short discussion on the sense in which St . 
John has used the word Logos , will prove that he has not borrowed it from the philosophy of Plato . 
The evangelist adopts this word without previous explanation , as a term with which his contemporaries were already familiar , and which they could at once comprehend . 
To know the sense which he gave to it , we must inquire that which it generally bore in his time . 
We find two the one attached to the word logos by the Jews of Palestine , the other by the school of Alexandria , particularly by Philo . 
By the word of the Lord were the heavens made . 
Accustomed to allegories , they often addressed themselves to this attribute of the Deity as a real being . 
Solomon makes Wisdom say The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way , before his works of old . 
I was set up from everlasting , from the beginning , or ever the earth was . 
Their residence in Persia only increased this inclination to sustained allegories . 
I alone compassed the circuit of heaven , and walked in the bottom of the deep . 
The Creator created me from the beginning , before the world , and I shall never fail . 
See also the Wisdom of Solomon , c . 
The latter book is clearly Alexandrian . 
Which of these two senses is that which St . 
John intended to assign to the word logos in the first chapter of his Gospel , and in all his writings ? St . 
It is impossible not to trace in this chapter the ideas which the Jews had formed of the allegorized logos . 
It was to prove this that he wrote . 
It is worthy of remark , that the Jews of Palestine , who did not perceive this alteration , could find nothing extraordinary in what St . 
This circumstance must have much favored the progress of Christianity . 
Thus the fathers of the church in the two first centuries and later , formed almost all in the school of Alexandria , gave to the Logos of St . 
John a sense nearly similar to that which it received from Philo . 
Their doctrine approached very near to that which in the fourth century the council of Nice condemned in the person of Arius . 
G. M. Guizot has forgotten the long residence of St . 
John at Ephesus , the centre of the mingling opinions of the East and West , which were gradually growing up into Gnosticism . 
John's sense of the Logos seems as far removed from the simple allegory ascribed to the Palestinian Jews as from the Oriental impersonation of the Alexandrian . 
The simple truth may be that St . 
John took the familiar term , and , as it were infused into it the peculiar and Christian sense in which it is used in his writings . 
M. See Beausobre , Hist . 
Critique du Manicheisme , tom . 
The Gospel according to St . 
John is supposed to have been published about seventy years after the death of Christ . 
The Clementines , published among the apostolical fathers , are attributed by the critics to one of these sectaries . 
The humble condition and sufferings of Jesus have always been a stumbling block to the Jews . 
contrariis coloribus Messiam depinxerat futurus erat Rex , Judex , Pastor , c . 
See Limborch et Orobio Amica Collat . 
But this objection has obliged the believing Christians to lift up their eyes to a spiritual and everlasting kingdom . 
See Le Clerc , Hist . 
attempt to distort either the sentiments or the words of Justin but their violent correction of the text is rejected even by the Benedictine editors . 
The Arians reproached the orthodox party with borrowing their Trinity from the Valentinians and Marcionites . 
Non dignum est ex utero credere Deum , et Deum Christum . 
non dignum est ut tanta majestas per sordes et squalores muli eris transire credatur . 
The Gnostics asserted the impurity of matter , and of marriage and they were scandalized by the gross interpretations of the fathers , and even of Augustin himself . 
, Note The greater part of the Docetae rejected the true divinity of Jesus Christ , as well as his human nature . 
They belonged to the Gnostics , whom some philosophers , in whose party Gibbon has enlisted , make to derive their opinions from those of Plato . 
that the Oriental philosophy , combined with the cabalistical philosophy of the Jews , had given birth to Gnosticism . 
G. F. Walch , Hist . 
G. Apostolis adhuc in saeculo superstitibus apud Judaeam Christi sanguine recente , et phanlasma corpus Domini asserebatur . 
that those who will not allow the Docetes to have arisen in the time of the Apostles , may with equal reason deny that the sun shines at noonday . 
These Docetes , who formed the most considerable party among the Gnostics , were so called , because they granted only a seeming body to Christ . 
reproaches Saturninus with being a Docete . 
makes the same reproach against Basilides . 
Epiphanius and Philastrius , who have treated in detail on each particular heresy , do not specially name that of the Docetae . 
appear to be the first who have used the generic name . 
It is not found in any earlier record , though the error which it points out existed even in the time of the Apostles . 
G. F. Walch , Hist . 
Tillemont , Mempour servir a la Hist Eccles . 
An eager spirit of curiosity urged them to explore the secrets of the abyss and the pride of the professors , and of their disciples , was satisfied with the sciences of words . 
In every step of the inquiry , we are compelled to feel and acknowledge the immeasurable disproportion between the size of the object and the capacity of the human mind . 
We may strive to abstract the notions of time , of space , and of matter , which so closely adhere to all the perceptions of our experimental knowledge . 
Some proofs of the respect which the Christians entertained for the person and doctrine of Plato may be found in De la Mothe le Vayer , tom . 
Doleo bona fide , Platonem omnium heraeticorum condimentarium factum . 
shows that this was a general complaint . 
His expressions have an uncommon energy and as he was writing to monks , there could not be any occasion for him to affect a rational language . 
The cold indifference of philosophy was inflamed by the fervent spirit of devotion and even the metaphors of common language suggested the fallacious prejudices of sense and experience . 
The Christians , who abhorred the gross and impure generation of the Greek mythology , were tempted to argue from the familiar analogy of the filial and paternal relations . 
In a treatise , which professed to explain the opinions of the ancient philosophers concerning the nature of the gods we might expect to discover the theological Trinity of Plato . 
But Cicero very honestly confessed , that although he had translated the Timaeus , he could never understand that mysterious dialogue . 
See Bayle , Dictionnaire , au mot Simonide . 
His remarks on the presumption of Tertullian are profound and interesting . 
, either meant nothing , or favored a material idea of the divine generation . 
Many of the primitive writers have frankly confessed , that the Son owed his being to the will of the Father . 
See Clarke's Scripture Trinity , p . 
On the other hand , Athanasius and his followers seem unwilling to grant what they are afraid to deny . 
The schoolmen extricate themselves from this difficulty by the distinction of a preceding and a concomitant will . 
Carmenque Christo quasi Deo dicere secum invicem . 
See Daille de Usu Patrum , and Le Clerc , Bibliotheque Universelle , tom . 
nor has the deep impression been erased by the learned defence of Bishop Bull . 
Burton's work on the doctrine of the Ante Nicene fathers must be consulted by those who wish to obtain clear notions on this subject . 
M. Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
The devotion of individuals was the first circumstance which distinguished the Christians from the Platonists the second was the authority of the church . 
The disciples of philosophy asserted the rights of intellectual freedom , and their respect for the sentiments of their teachers was a liberal and voluntary tribute , which they offered to superior reason . 
But the Christians formed a numerous and disciplined society and the jurisdiction of their laws and magistrates was strictly exercised over the minds of the faithful . 
His competitor Alexander assumed the office of his judge . 
The important cause was argued before him and if at first he seemed to hesitate , he at length pronounced his final sentence , as an absolute rule of faith . 
The undaunted presbyter , who presumed to resist the authority of his angry bishop , was separated from the community of the church . 
But the pride of Arius was supported by the applause of a numerous party . 
Synods in Palestine and Bithynia were opposed to the synods of Egypt . 
The most ancient creeds were drawn up with the greatest latitude . 
who tries to prevent Episcopius from deriving any advantage from this observation . 
The heresies of Praxeas , Sabellius , c . 
Socrates acknowledges , that the heresy of Arius proceeded from his strong desire to embrace an opinion the most diametrically opposite to that of Sabellius . 
and we cannot but regret that he should soon forget the historian , to assume the task of controversy . 
ascribes the origin of the dispute to the vain curiosity of his theological speculations . 
has censured , with his usual freedom , the conduct of Alexander . 
The flames of Arianism might burn for some time in secret but there is reason to believe that they burst out with violence as early as the year . 
On this only begotten Son , the Almighty Father had transfused his ample spirit , and impressed the effulgence of his glory . 
In the second hypothesis , the Logos possessed all the inherent , incommunicable perfections , which religion and philosophy appropriate to the Supreme God . 
A faint resemblance of this unity of action may be discovered in the societies of men , and even of animals . 
By this hypothesis , a real substantial trinity is refined into a trinity of names , and abstract modifications , that subsist only in the mind which conceives them . 
The incarnation of the Logos is reduced to a mere inspiration of the Divine Wisdom , which filled the soul , and directed all the actions , of the man Jesus . 
Aut extra haec quid credere potuerit nescio . 
Jerom reserves for the last the orthodox system , which is more complicated and difficult . 
the dignity of the workman very naturally rose with that of the work . 
could digest an eternal generation from an infinite cause . 
See Cudworth's Intellectual System , p . 
This dangerous hypothesis was countenanced by the two Gregories , of Nyssa and Nazianzen , by Cyril of Alexandria , John of Damascus , c . 
Le Clerc , Bibliotheque Universelle , tom xviii . 
Augustin seems to envy the freedom of the Philosophers . 
Nos autem non dicimus duo vel tria principia , duos vel tres Deos . 
Boetius , who was deeply versed in the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle , explains the unity of the Trinity by the indifference of the three persons . 
See the judicious remarks of Le Clerc , Bibliotheque Choisie , tom . 
See the invectives of Tertullian against Praxeas , and the temperate reflections of Mosheim , and Beausobre , tom . 
This majority was divided into two parties , distinguished by a contrary tendency to the sentiments of the Tritheists and of the Sabellians . 
Within these limits , the almost invisible and tremulous ball of orthodoxy was allowed securely to vibrate . 
On either side , beyond this consecrated ground , the heretics and the daemons lurked in ambush to surprise and devour the unhappy wanderer . 
The transactions of the council of Nice are related by the ancients , not only in a partial , but in a very imperfect manner . 
who examines the Arian controversy with learning , candor , and ingenuity . 
The circumincessio , is perhaps the deepest and darkest he whole theological abyss . 
The third section of Bull's Defence of the Nicene Faith , which some of his antagonists have called nonsense , and others heresy , is consecrated to the supremacy of the Father . 
The ordinary appellation with which Athanasius and his followers chose to compliment the Arians , was that of Ariomanites . 
His work , in one book , of the unity of God , was answered in the three books , which are still extant , of Eusebius . 
has reluctantly pronounced the condemnation of Marcellus . 
The Homoousion is rejected , and received , and explained away by successive synods . 
The partial or total resemblance of the Father and of the Son is a subject of dispute for these unhappy times . 
Every year , nay , every moon , we make new creeds to describe invisible mysteries . 
We repent of what we have done , we defend those who repent , we anathematize those whom we defended . 
Erasmus , with admirable sense and freedom , has delineated the just character of Hilary . 
To revise his text , to compose the annals of his life , and to justify his sentiments and conduct , is the province of the Benedictine editors . 
Absque episcopo Eleusio et paucis cum eo , ex majore parte Asianae decem provinciae , inter quas consisto , vere Deum nesciunt . 
Atque utinam penitus nescirent ! cum procliviore enim venia ignorarent quam obtrectarent . 
de Synodis , sive de Fide Orientalium , c . 
In the celebrated parallel between atheism and superstition , the bishop of Poitiers would have been surprised in the philosophic society of Bayle and Plutarch . 
Hilarius ad Constantium , l . 
into the model of his new common place book . 
This obvious consequence was maintained by Aetius , on whom the zeal of his adversaries bestowed the surname of the Atheist . 
His restless and aspiring spirit urged him to try almost every profession of human life . 
the character and adventures of Aetius appear singular enough , though they are carefully softened by the hand of a friend . 
who was more attached to his principles than to his author , has collected the odious circumstances which his various adversaries have preserved or invented . 
According to the judgment of a man who respected both these sectaries , Aetius had been endowed with a stronger understanding and Eunomius had acquired more art and learning . 
is one of the few heretical pieces which have escaped . 
there is one power that of creation which God cannot communicate to a creature . 
Estius , who so accurately defined the limits of Omnipotence was a Dutchman by birth , and by trade a scholastic divine . 
he observes , that he used this cautious expression , qui intelligerum et impiam , p . 
Philostorgius , who saw those objects through a different medium , is inclined to forget the difference of the important diphthong . 
, and Godefroy , p . 
The provinces of Egypt and Asia , which cultivated the language and manners of the Greeks , had deeply imbibed the venom of the Arian controversy . 
The Latins had received the rays of divine knowledge through the dark and doubtful medium of a translation . 
From the first debates it appeared , that only fourscore prelates adhered to the party , though they affected to anathematize the name and memory , of Arius . 
It was on this occasion , that , according to Jerom , the world was surprised to find itself Arian . 
But the bishops of the Latin provinces had no sooner reached their respective dioceses , than they discovered their mistake , and repented of their weakness . 
The ignominious capitulation was rejected with disdain and abhorrence and the Homoousian standard , which had been shaken but not overthrown , was more firmly replanted in all the churches of the West . 
Testor Deumcoeli atque terrae me cum neutrum audissem , semper tamen utrumque sensisse . 
Regeneratus pridem et in episcopatu aliquantisper manens fidem Nicenam nunquam nisi exsulaturus audivi . 
The Benedictines are persuaded that he governed the diocese of Poitiers several years before his exile . 
could not be expressed by a Latin noun . 
was favored by the Latin language seems to excite the idea of substance , trinitas of qualities . 
Ingemuit totus orbis , et Arianum se esse miratus est . 
and by Jerom , in his dialogue against the Luciferians . 
The design of the latter is to apologize for the conduct of the Latin bishops , who were deceived , and who repented . 
Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
Such was the rise and progress , and such were the natural revolutions of those theological disputes , which disturbed the peace of Christianity under the reigns of Constantine and of his sons . 
But his ecclesiastical ministers soon contrived to seduce the impartiality of the magistrate , and to awaken the zeal of the proselyte . 
The presence of the monarch swelled the importance of the debate his attention multiplied the arguments and he exposed his person with a patient intrepidity , which animated the valor of the combatants . 
Eusebius of Caesarea yielded a reluctant and ambiguous consent to the Homoousion and the wavering conduct of the Nicomedian Eusebius served only to delay , about three months , his disgrace and exile . 
The principles of toleration and religious indifference , contained in this epistle , have given great offence to Baronius , Tillemont , c . 
, who suppose that the emperor had some evil counsellor , either Satan or Eusebius , at his elbow . 
See Cortin's Remarks , tom . 
quotes with approbation the term golden words , applied by Ziegler to this moderate and tolerant letter of Constantine . 
May an English clergyman venture to express his regret that the fine gold soon became dim in the Christian church ? M. Eusebius in Vit . 
an original letter of Eusebius of Caesarea , in which he attempts to justify his subscribing the Homoousion . 
must entertain a very unfavorable opinion of the orthodoxy and sincerity of the bishop of Caesarea . 
, and Godefroy's Commentary , p . 
In his circular letters , which were addressed to the several cities , Constantine employed against the heretics the arms of ridicule and comic raillery . 
The exiles were recalled , and Eusebius , who gradually resumed his influence over the mind of Constantine , was restored to the episcopal throne , from which he had been ignominiously degraded . 
Arius himself was treated by the whole court with the respect which would have been due to an innocent and oppressed man . 
The ecclesiastical government of Constantine cannot be justified from the reproach of levity and weakness . 
who expresses some reluctance to stigmatize the memory of the dead . 
He might exaggerate but the perpetual commerce of Alexandria and Constantinople would have rendered it dangerous to invent . 
must make their option between poison and miracle . 
But the first of these writers was too near the scene of action , and the others were too remote from it . 
It is singular enough , that the important task of continuing the history of the church should have been left for two laymen and a heretic . 
The sons of Constantine must have been admitted from their childhood into the rank of catechumens but they imitated , in the delay of their baptism , the example of their father . 
His spiritual comforter , Valens , the Arian bishop of the diocese , employed the most artful precautions to obtain such early intelligence as might secure either his favor or his escape . 
The grateful emperor ascribed his success to the merits and intercession of the bishop of Mursa , whose faith had deserved the public and miraculous approbation of Heaven . 
The Arians , who considered as their own the victory of Constantius , preferred his glory to that of his father . 
Quia etiam tum catechumenus sacramentum fidei merito videretiu potuisse nescire . 
He observes that the eunuchs are the natural enemies of the Son . 
Jortin's Remarks on Ecclesiastical History , vol . 
which ends with one of the first companions of Christopher Columbus . 
It is not easy to determine how far the ingenuity of Cyril might be assisted by some natural appearances of a solar halo . 
He is followed by the author of the Alexandrian Chronicle , by Cedrenus , and by Nicephorus . 
) They could not refuse a miracle , even from the hand of an enemy . 
The Christian religion , which , in itself , says that moderate historian , is plain and simple , he confounded by the dotage of superstition . 
Instead of reconciling the parties by the weight of his authority , he cherished and promulgated , by verbal disputes , the differences which his vain curiosity had excited . 
During the season of public business or festivity , he employed whole days , and even nights , in selecting the words , and weighing the syllables , which composed his fluctuating creeds . 
The destructive earthquake of Nicomedia , the difficulty of finding a convenient place , and perhaps some secret motives of policy , produced an alteration in the summons . 
The Eastern council , after consuming four days in fierce and unavailing debate , separated without any definitive conclusion . 
The council of the West was protracted till the seventh month . 
So curious a passage well deserves to be transcribed . 
dum ritum omnem ad suum sahere conantur rei vehiculariae concideret servos . 
has collected several instances of the haughty fanaticism of Constantius from the detached treatises of Lucifer of Cagliari . 
The very titles of these treaties inspire zeal and terror Moriendum pro Dei Filio . 
De non conveniendo cum Haeretico . 
De non parcendo in Deum delinquentibus . 
The Greek historians were very ignorant of the affairs of the West . 
The immortal name of Athanasius will never be separated from the Catholic doctrine of the Trinity , to whose defence he consecrated every moment and every faculty of his being . 
He filled that eminent station above forty six years , and his long administration was spent in a perpetual combat against the powers of Arianism . 
who published the first edition of the history , without giving himself the trouble to consult the writings of Athanasius . 
Yet even Socrates , the more curious Sozomen , and the learned Theodoret , connect the life of Athanasius with the series of ecclesiastical history . 
calls him a lawyer , a jurisconsult . 
This character cannot now be discovered either in the life or writings of Athanasius . 
Dicebatur enim fatidicarum sortium fidem , quaeve augurales portenderent alites scientissime callens aliquoties praedixisse futura . 
that Athanasius understood the language of the crows . 
The election of Athanasius has not escaped the reproach of irregularity and precipitation but the propriety of his behavior conciliated the affections both of the clergy and of the people . 
The Alexandrians were impatient to rise in arms for the defence of an eloquent and liberal pastor . 
Nor was it only in ecclesiastical assemblies , among men whose education and manners were similar to his own , that Athanasius displayed the ascendancy of his genius . 
The irregular ordination of Athanasius was slightly mentioned in the councils which were held against him . 
, and Godefroy , p . 
but it can scarcely be supposed that the assembly of the bishops of Egypt would solemnly attest a public falsehood . 
See the history of the Fathers of the Desert , published by Rosweide and Tillemont , Mem . 
, in the lives of Antony , Pachomius , c . 
In his youth , the primate of Egypt resisted the great Constantine , who had repeatedly signified his will , that Arius should be restored to the Catholic communion . 
The primate might be conscious of his innocence but he was sensible that the same implacable spirit which had dictated the accusation , would direct the proceeding , and pronounce the sentence . 
After the return of the deputies from Alexandria , the majority of the council pronounced the final sentence of degradation and exile against the primate of Egypt . 
At first Constantine threatened in speaking , but requested in writing . 
His letters gradually assumed a menacing tone by while he required that the entrance of the church should be open to all , he avoided the odious name of Arius . 
which allowed him some scope for excuse and delay The Meletians in Egypt , like the Donatists in Africa , were produced by an episcopal quarrel which arose from the persecution . 
I have not leisure to pursue the obscure controversy , which seems to have been misrepresented by the partiality of Athanasius and the ignorance of Epiphanius . 
See Mosheim's General History of the Church , vol . 
but Athanasius himself , so copious on the subject of Arsenius and the chalice , leaves this grave accusation without a reply . 
seems to have been silently dropped by the parties themselves it is never alluded to in the subsequent investigations . 
From Sozomen himself , who gives the unfavorable report of the commission of inquiry sent to Egypt concerning the cup . 
it does not appear that they noticed this accusation of personal violence . 
seems to prejudge some members of the clergy and it was more than probable that the synod would apply those reproaches to Athanasius . 
They are justified by original and authentic documents but they would inspire more confidence if he appeared less innocent , and his enemies less absurd . 
Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
Part V. But the injustice of these ecclesiastical judges had not been countenanced by the submission , or even by the presence , of Athanasius . 
In the remote province of Gaul , but in the hospitable court of Treves , Athanasius passed about twenty eight months . 
In a church dedicated to St . 
Athanasius this situation would afford a better subject for a picture , than most of the stories of miracles and martyrdoms . 
a strange example of the cruelty and credulity of Constantine on a similar occasion . 
The eloquent Sopater , a Syrian philosopher , enjoyed his friendship , and provoked the resentment of Ablavius , his Praetorian praefect . 
Suidas adds , that Constantine wished to prove , by this execution , that he had absolutely renounced the superstition of the Gentiles . 
The death of that prince exposed Athanasius to a second persecution and the feeble Constantius , the sovereign of the East , soon became the secret accomplice of the Eusebians . 
Ninety bishops of that sect or faction assembled at Antioch , under the specious pretence of dedicating the cathedral . 
They composed an ambiguous creed , which is faintly tinged with the colors of Semi Arianism , and twenty five canons , which still regulate the discipline of the orthodox Greeks . 
Oppressed by the conspiracy of the Asiatic prelates , Athanasius withdrew from Alexandria , and passed three years as an exile and a suppliant on the holy threshold of the Vatican . 
Hilary of Poitiers has mentioned this synod of Antioch with too much favor and respect . 
He reckons ninety seven bishops . 
This magistrate , so odious to Athanasius , is praised by Gregory Nazianzen , tom . 
Saepe premente Deo fert Deus alter opem . 
For the credit of human nature , I am always pleased to discover some good qualities in those men whom party has represented as tyrants and monsters . 
I have followed the simple hypothesis of Valesius , who allows only one journey , after the intrusion Gregory . 
Eam ob causam Athanasius , non sine comitatu , Roman petiit , pluresque annos ibi haesit . 
, and Geddos's Tracts , vol . 
During his second exile in the West , Athanasius was frequently admitted to the Imperial presence at Capua , Lodi , Milan , Verona , Padua , Aquileia , and Treves . 
Prudence would undoubtedly suggest the mild and respectful tone that became a subject and a bishop . 
at the same time that he assured him of his profound respect , we might distrust the professions of the archbishop . 
Their epistles to Julius , bishop of Rome , and to Athanasius himself , are of so different a cast from each other , that they cannot both be genuine . 
The one speaks the language of criminals who confess their guilt and infamy the other of enemies , who solicit on equal terms an honorable reconciliation . 
Note I cannot quite comprehend the ground of Gibbon's doubts . 
Athanasius distinctly asserts the fact of their retractation . 
The epistles are apparently translations from the Latin , if , in fact , more than the substance of the epistles . 
That to Athanasius is brief , almost abrupt . 
Their retractation is likewise mentioned in the address of the orthodox bishops of Rimini to Constantius . 
de Synodis , Op t . 
p M. The circumstances of his second return may be collected from Athanasius himself , tom . 
The ruin of Athanasius was no longer contrived by the obscure malice of a few bigoted or angry bishops , who abused the authority of a credulous monarch . 
defends his innocence by pathetic complaints , solemn assertions , and specious arguments . 
The emperor declared that he was more desirous to subdue Athanasius , than he had been to vanquish Magnentius or Sylvanus . 
The friends of Athanasius were not , however , wanting to their leader , or to their cause . 
See Baronius , A. D. , and Tillemont , tom . 
The honors , presents , feasts , which seduced so many bishops , are mentioned with indignation by those who were too pure or too proud to accept them . 
against Constantius the Antichrist who strokes the belly instead of scourging the back qui non dorsa caedit sed ventrem palpat . 
who had a very dark and superficial knowledge of ecclesiastical history . 
perseveranter renitebatur , nec visum hominem , nec auditum damnare , nefas ultimum saepe exclamans aperte scilicet recalcitrans Imperatoris arbitrio . 
Id enim ille Athanasio semper infestus , c . 
More properly by the orthodox part of the council of Sardica . 
If the bishops of both parties had fairly voted , the division would have been to . 
is justly surprised that so small a majority should have proceeded as vigorously against their adversaries , the principal of whom they immediately deposed . 
The bishops who had opposed , were required to subscribe , the sentence , and to unite in religious communion with the suspected leaders of the adverse party . 
But the repeated attempts of the emperor to seduce or to intimidate the bishops of Rome and Cordova , were for some time ineffectual . 
The Spaniard declared himself ready to suffer under Constantius , as he had suffered threescore years before under his grandfather Maximian . 
The Roman , in the presence of his sovereign , asserted the innocence of Athanasius and his own freedom . 
The resolution of Liberius and Osius was at length subdued by the hardships of exile and confinement . 
The Roman pontiff purchased his return by some criminal compliances and afterwards expiated his guilt by a seasonable repentance . 
The exile of Liberius is mentioned by Ammianus , xv . 
who in the most extravagant terms first admires , and then reprobates , the bishop of Cordova . 
In the midst of their lamentations on his fall , the prudence of Athanasius may be distinguished from the blind and intemperate zeal of Hilary . 
The fall of Liberius and Osius reflected a brighter lustre on the firmness of those bishops who still adhered , with unshaken fidelity , to the cause of Athanasius and religious truth . 
See the cruel treatment and strange obstinacy of Eusebius , in his own letters , published by Baronius , A. D. , No. . 
Caeterum exules satis constat , totius orbis studiis celebratos pecuniasque eis in sumptum affatim congestas , legationibus quoque plebis Catholicae ex omnibus fere provinciis frequentatos . 
The disgrace and exile of the orthodox bishops of the West were designed as so many preparatory steps to the ruin of Athanasius himself . 
Theonas , where the archbishop , with a part of his clergy and people , performed their nocturnal devotions . 
The Pagans of Alexandria , who still formed a numerous and discontented party , were easily persuaded to desert a bishop whom they feared and esteemed . 
Encouraged by success , Constantius ventured to approve the conduct of his minister . 
Ample materials for the history of this third persecution of Athanasius may be found in his own works . 
has thrown into the narrative two or three luminous and important circumstances . 
Athanasius had lately sent for Antony , and some of his chosen monks . 
They descended from their mountains , announced to the Alexandrians the sanctity of Athanasius , and were honorably conducted by the archbishop as far as the gates of the city . 
See likewise Rufinus , iii . 
The emperor , or his Arian secretaries while they express their resentment , betray their fears and esteem of Athanasius . 
Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
Athanasius had indeed escaped from the most imminent dangers and the adventures of that extraordinary man deserve and fix our attention . 
On the memorable night when the church of St . 
Theonas was invested by the troops of Syrianus , the archbishop , seated on his throne , expected , with calm and intrepid dignity , the approach of death . 
From that moment the primate of Egypt disappeared from the eyes of his enemies , and remained above six years concealed in impenetrable obscurity . 
These minute circumstances are curious , as they are literally transcribed from the protest , which was publicly presented three days afterwards by the Catholics of Alexandria . 
The Jansenists have often compared Athanasius and Arnauld , and have expatiated with pleasure on the faith and zeal , the merit and exile , of those celebrated doctors . 
This concealed parallel is very dexterously managed by the Abbe de la Bleterie , Vie de Jovien , tom . 
But the deserts of Thebais were now peopled by a race of wild , yet submissive fanatics , who preferred the commands of their abbot to the laws of their sovereign . 
His various adventures might have furnished the subject of a very entertaining romance . 
The pious maid accepted and preserved the sacred pledge which was intrusted to her prudence and courage . 
These princes were called Aeizanas and Saiazanas . 
Athanasius calls them the kings of Axum . 
In the superscription of his letter , Constantius gives them no title . 
discovered , in the ruins of Axum , a long and very interesting inscription relating to these princes . 
Aeizanas is styled king of the Axumites , the Homerites , of Raeidan , of the Ethiopians , of the Sabsuites , of Silea , of Tiamo , of the Bougaites . 
It appears that at this time the king of the Ethiopians ruled over the Homerites , the inhabitants of Yemen . 
He was not yet a Christian , as he calls himself son of the invincible Mars . 
Another brother besides Saiazanas , named Adephas , is mentioned , though Aeizanas seems to have been sole king . 
Martin , note on Le Beau , ii . 
De Sacy , note in Annales des Voyages , xii . 
M. Hinc jam toto orbe profugus Athanasius , nec ullus ci tutus ad latendum supererat locus . 
Tribuni , Praefecti , Comites , exercitus quoque ad pervestigandum cum moventur edictis Imperialibus praemia dela toribus proponuntur , si quis eum vivum , si id minus , caput certe Atha casii detulisset . 
Et nulla tormentorum vis inveneri , adhuc potuit , quae obdurato illius tractus latroni invito elicere potuit , ut nomen proprium dicat Ammian . 
, and Valesius ad locum . 
This and the following story will be rendered impossible , if we suppose that Athanasius always inhabited the asylum which he accidentally or occasionally had used . 
the original author of this anecdote , had conversed with the damsel , who in her old age still remembered with pleasure so pious and honorable a connection . 
I cannot indulge the delicacy of Baronius , Valesius , Tillemont , c . 
, who almost reject a story so unworthy , as they deem it , of the gravity of ecclesiastical history . 
that his expressions imply a personal , though perhaps secret visit to the synods . 
and , in compliment to his readers , he has introduced the comparisons of Pharaoh , Ahab , Belshazzar , c . 
The first of these methods was invented at Antioch , and practised with such success , that it was soon diffused over the Christian world . 
Alternate responses , and a more regular psalmody , were introduced into the public service by Flavianus and Diodorus , two devout and active laymen , who were attached to the Nicene faith . 
in the pretended election of Faelix . 
Three eunuchs represented the Roman people , and three prelates , who followed the court , assumed the functions of the bishops of the Suburbicarian provinces . 
has collected many curious facts concerning the origin and progress of church singing , both in the East and West . 
Arian singers used to parade the streets of Constantinople by night , till Chrysostom arrayed against them a band of orthodox choristers . 
There were three heterodox forms To the Father by the Son , and in the Holy Ghost . 
To the Father , and the Son in the Holy Ghost and To the Father in the Son and the Holy Ghost . 
After the exile of Eustathius , under the reign of Constantine , the rigid party of the orthodox formed a separation which afterwards degenerated into a schism , and lasted about fourscore years . 
In many churches , the Arians and Homoousians , who had renounced each other's communion , continued for some time to join in prayer . 
When the eunuchs had secretly pronounced the exile of Liberius , the well grounded apprehension of a tumult engaged them to use the utmost precautions in the execution of the sentence . 
The capital was invested on every side , and the praefect was commanded to seize the person of the bishop , either by stratagem or by open force . 
See , on this ecclesiastical revolution of Rome , Ammianus , xv . 
Constantinople alone enjoyed the advantage of being born and educated in the bosom of the faith . 
After the death of Alexander , the episcopal throne was disputed by Paul and Macedonius . 
His firm attachment to the Nicene creed , which has given Paul a place in the calendar among saints and martyrs , exposed him to the resentment of the Arians . 
The first blood which stained the new capital was spilt in this ecclesiastical contest and many persons were slain on both sides , in the furious and obstinate seditions of the people . 
The commission of enforcing a sentence of banishment against Paul had been intrusted to Hermogenes , the master general of the cavalry but the execution of it was fatal to himself . 
The fate of Hermogenes instructed Philip , the Praetorian praefect , to act with more precaution on a similar occasion . 
In the most gentle and honorable terms , he required the attendance of Paul in the baths of Xeuxippus , which had a private communication with the palace and the sea . 
As the chapel in which the body of the great Constantine had been deposited was in a ruinous condition , the bishop transported those venerable remains into the church of St . 
This prudent and even pious measure was represented as a wicked profanation by the whole party which adhered to the Homoousian doctrine . 
Cucusus was the last stage of his life and sufferings . 
Yet he acknowledges that the heretics attributed to disease the death of the bishop of Constantinople . 
Athanasius is servilely copied by Socrates , but Sozomen , who discovers a more liberal temper . 
presumes to insinuate a prudent doubt . 
refers to his own account of this tragic event . 
But we no longer possess that part of his history . 
Note The murder of Hermogenes took place at the first expulsion of Paul from the see of Constantinople . 
M. See Socrates , l . 
, , , , , , , , , and Sozomen , l . 
, , , , l . 
are an indifferent copy of these historians but a modern Greek , who could write the life of a saint without adding fables and miracles , is entitled to some commendation . 
Chapter XXI Persecution Of Heresy , State Of The Church . 
The sacraments of the church were administered to the reluctant victims , who denied the vocation , and abhorred the principles , of Macedonius . 
The Novatians of Constantinople and the adjacent country , by their firm attachment to the Homoousian standard , deserved to be confounded with the Catholics themselves . 
Macedonius was informed , that a large district of Paphlagonia was almost entirely inhabited by those sectaries . 
Whole troops of those who are styled heretics , were massacred , particularly at Cyzicus , and at Samosata . 
In Paphlagonia , Bithynia , Galatia , and in many other provinces , towns and villages were laid waste , and utterly destroyed . 
The principal assistants of Macedonius , in the work of persecution , were the two bishops of Nicomedia and Cyzicus , who were esteemed for their virtues , and especially for their charity . 
I cannot forbear reminding the reader , that the difference between the Homoousion and Homoiousion , is almost invisible to the nicest theological eye . 
We are ignorant of the precise situation of Mantinium . 
In speaking of these four bands of legionaries , Socrates , Sozomen , and the author of the acts of St . 
Paul , use the indefinite terms of , which Nicephorus very properly translates thousands . 
They indignantly supported the exile of their bishops , the demolition of their churches , and the interruption of their secret assemblies . 
By their own cruelty and rashness , the ministers of persecution sometimes provoked their fate and the guilt of an accidental tumult precipitated the criminals into despair and rebellion . 
The Donatists who were taken in arms , received , and they soon deserved , the same treatment which might have been shown to the wild beasts of the desert . 
with the Donatis history , by M. Dupin , and the original pieces at the end of his edition . 
The numerous circumstances which Augustin has mentioned , of the fury of the Circumcellions against others , and against themselves , have been laboriously collected by Tillemont , Mem . 
and he has often , though without design , exposed injuries which had provoked those fanatics . 
It is amusing enough to observe the language of opposite parties , when they speak of the same men and things . 
Gratus , bishop of Carthage , begins the acclamations of an orthodox synod , Gratias Deo omnipotenti et Christu Jesu . 
qui imperavit religiosissimo Constanti Imperatori , ut votum gereret unitatis , et mitteret ministros sancti operis famulos Dei Paulum et Macarium . 
ad Calcem Optati , p . 
the emperor prohibited , both in cities and in the country , the abominable acts or parts of idolatry . 
primus Constantinus justo ordine et pio vicem vertit edicto siquidem statuit citra ullam hominum caedem , paganorum templa claudi . 
that they are permitted to offer sacrifices , and to exercise every part of their religious worship . 
See Eusebius , in Vit . 
These acts of authority may be compared with the suppression of the Bacchanals , and the demolition of the temple of Isis , by the magistrates of Pagan Rome . 
both mention the pious sacrilege of Constantine , which they viewed in very different lights . 
Lardner's Jewish and Heathen Testimonies , vol . 
The sons of Constantine trod in the footsteps of their father , with more zeal , and with less discretion . 
The name of Constantius is prefixed to a concise law , which might have superseded the necessity of any future prohibitions . 
It is our pleasure , that in all places , and in all cities , the temples be immediately shut , and carefully guarded , that none may have the power of offending . 
It is likewise our pleasure , that all our subjects should abstain from sacrifices . 
If any one should be guilty of such an act , let him feel the sword of vengeance , and after his execution , let his property be confiscated to the public use . 
We denounce the same penalties against the governors of the provinces , if they neglect to punish the criminals . 
But there is the strongest reason to believe , that this formidable edict was either composed without being published , or was published without being executed . 
speaks of some court eunuchs who were spoliis templorum pasti . 
Placuit omnibus locis atque urbibus universis claudi protinus empla , et accessu vetitis omnibus licentiam delinquendi perditis abnegari . 
Volumus etiam cunctos a sacrificiis abstinere . 
Quod siquis aliquid forte hujusmodi perpetraverit , gladio sternatur facultates etiam perempti fisco decernimus vindicari et similiter adfligi rectores provinciarum si facinora vindicare neglexerint . 
Chronology has discovered some contradiction in the date of this extravagant law the only one , perhaps , by which the negligence of magistrates is punished by death and confiscation . 
is a very learned and judicious performance , which explains the state , and prove the toleration , of Paganism from Constantino to Gratian . 
The assertion of Zosimus , that Gratian was the first who refused the pontifical robe , is confirmed beyond a doubt and the murmurs of bigotry on that subject are almost silenced . 
Every motive of authority and fashion , of interest and reason , now militated on the side of Christianity but two or three generations elapsed , before their victorious influence was universally felt . 
As I have freely anticipated the use of pagans and paganism , I shall now trace the singular revolutions of those celebrated words . 
in the Doric dialect , so familiar to the Italians , signifies a fountain and the rural neighborhood , which frequented the same fountain , derived the common appellation of pagus and pagans . 
and the meaner rustics acquired that name , which has been corrupted into peasants in the modern languages of Europe . 
and all the people who were not enlisted in the service of the prince were branded with the contemptuous epithets of pagans . 
retired and languished in obscure villages and the word pagans , with its new signification , reverted to its primitive origin . 
Since the worship of Jupiter and his family has expired , the vacant title of pagans has been successively applied to all the idolaters and polytheists of the old and new world . 
The Latin Christians bestowed it , without scruple , on their mortal enemies , the Mahometans and the purest Unitarians were branded with the unjust reproach of idolatry and paganism . 
See Gerard Vossius , Etymologicon Linguae Latinae , in his works , tom . 
Godefroy's Commentary on the Theodosian Code , tom . 
and Ducange , Mediae et Infimae Latinitat . 
In the pure language of Ionia and Athens were ancient and familiar words . 
a representation , an image , created either by fancy or art . 
The latter denoted any sort of service or slavery . 
to the religious worship of an image . 
Chapter XXII Julian Declared Emperor . 
Part I Julian Is Declared Emperor By The Legions Of Gaul . 
In the letters crowned with laurel , which , according to ancient custom , were addressed to the provinces , the name of Julian was omitted . 
So extravagant a fable was incapable , however , of deceiving the public credulity , or even of satisfying the pride of the emperor himself . 
Instead of depreciating the merits of Julian , they acknowledged , and even exaggerated , his popular fame , superior talents , and important services . 
Note The philosophers retaliated on the courtiers . 
was wont to call his antagonist Sylla a beast half lion and half fox . 
Constantius had nothing of the lion , but was surrounded by a whole litter of foxes . 
Callido nocendi artificio , accusatoriam diritatem laudum titulis peragebant . 
Hae voces fuerunt ad inflammanda odia probria omnibus potentiores . 
See Mamertin , in Actione Gratiarum in Vet Panegyr . 
The apparent tranquillity of Gaul , and the imminent danger of the eastern provinces , offered a specious pretence for the design which was artfully concerted by the Imperial ministers . 
The Caesar foresaw and lamented the consequences of this fatal mandate . 
Most of the auxiliaries , who engaged their voluntary service , had stipulated , that they should never be obliged to pass the Alps . 
The public faith of Rome , and the personal honor of Julian , had been pledged for the observance of this condition . 
They claimed as their own the country which they had saved and excused their want of spirit , by pleading the sacred and more immediate duty of protecting their families and friends . 
The apprehensions of the Gauls were derived from the knowledge of the impending and inevitable danger . 
If Julian complied with the orders which he had received , he subscribed his own destruction , and that of a people who deserved his affection . 
But a positive refusal was an act of rebellion , and a declaration of war . 
instead of allowing a sufficient space for a march of three thousand miles , would render the orders of Constantius as extravagant as they were unjust . 
The troops of Gaul could not have reached Syria till the end of autumn . 
The memory of Ammianus must have been inaccurate , and his language incorrect . 
Note The late editor of Ammianus attempts to vindicate his author from the charge of inaccuracy . 
Wagner , note to Amm . 
Ammianus can scarcely be acquitted of incorrectness in his language at least . 
The danger from the Scots and Picts was so serious that Julian himself had some thoughts of passing over into the island . 
The servants of Constantius were astonished and alarmed by the progress of this dangerous spirit . 
He granted them the permission of the cursus clavularis , or clabularis . 
These post wagons are often mentioned in the Code , and were supposed to carry fifteen hundred pounds weight . 
They retired from the feast , full of grief and perplexity and lamented the hardship of their fate , which tore them from their beloved general and their native country . 
Prudence , as well as loyalty , inculcated the propriety of resisting their treasonable designs and of preparing , for his oppressed virtue , the excuse of violence . 
But the soldiers , who were conscious of their guilt , chose rather to depend on the gratitude of Julian , than on the clemency of the emperor . 
Their zeal was insensibly turned into impatience , and their impatience into rage . 
of which a solid and lofty hall still subsists in the Rue de la Harpe . 
The buildings covered a considerable space of the modern quarter of the university and the gardens , under the Merovingian kings , communicated with the abbey of St . 
Explicat aula sinus montemque amplectitur alis Multiplici latebra scelerum tersura ruborem . 
pereuntis saepe pudoris Celatura nefas , Venerisque accommoda furtis . 
Yet such thefts might be less pernicious to mankind than the theological disputes of the Sorbonne , which have been since agitated on the same ground . 
An equal proportion of gold and silver , five pieces of the former one pound of the latter the whole amounting to about five pounds ten shillings of our money . 
who , in the reign of Julian , appears to follow the more respectable authority of Eunapius . 
With such guides we might neglect the abbreviators and ecclesiastical historians . 
The conduct which disclaims the ordinary maxims of reason , excites our suspicion and eludes our inquiry . 
Whenever the spirit of fanaticism , at once so credulous and so crafty , has insinuated itself into a noble mind , it insensibly corrodes the vital principles of virtue and veracity . 
Eutropius , a respectable witness , uses a doubtful expression , consensu militum . 
Gregory Nazianzen , whose ignorance night excuse his fanaticism , directly charges the apostate with presumption , madness , and impious rebellion , Orat . 
ad S. P. Q. Athen . 
is almost inclined to respect the devout protestations of a Pagan . 
, with the note of Lindenbrogius on the Genius of the empire . 
Even in his sleep , the mind of the Caesar must have been agitated by the hopes and fears of his fortune . 
This epistle is inscribed with the modest appellation of Caesar but Julian solicits in a peremptory , though respectful , manner , the confirmation of the title of Augustus . 
He acknowledges the irregularity of his own election , while he justifies , in some measure , the resentment and violence of the troops which had extorted his reluctant consent . 
But he reserves for himself the nomination of his other civil and military officers , with the troops , the revenue , and the sovereignty of the provinces beyond the Alps . 
In this negotiation Julian claimed no more than he already possessed . 
The delegated authority which he had long exercised over the provinces of Gaul , Spain , and Britain , was still obeyed under a name more independent and august . 
The soldiers and the people rejoiced in a revolution which was not stained even with the blood of the guilty . 
Florentius was a fugitive Lupicinus a prisoner . 
But Otho had much more guilt , and much less abilities , than Julian . 
To this ostensible epistle he added , says Ammianus , private letters , objurgatorias et mordaces , which the historian had not seen , and would not have published . 
See the first transactions of his reign , in Julian . 
ad S. P. Q. Athen . 
The negotiations of peace were accompanied and supported by the most vigorous preparations for war . 
The army , which Julian held in readiness for immediate action , was recruited and augmented by the disorders of the times . 
The cruel persecutions of the faction of Magnentius had filled Gaul with numerous bands of outlaws and robbers . 
A strange disorder , since it continued above seven years . 
See Hume's Essays , tom . 
gives a short description of Vesontio , or Besancon a rocky peninsula almost encircled by the River Doux once a magnificent city , filled with temples , c . 
, now reduced to a small town , emerging , however , from its ruins . 
Vadomair entered into the Roman service , and was promoted from a barbarian kingdom to the military rank of duke of Phoenicia . 
Chapter XXII Julian Declared Emperor . 
The ambassadors of Julian had been instructed to execute , with the utmost diligence , their important commission . 
Her remains were sent to Rome , and interred near those of her sister Constantina , in the suburb of the Via Nomentana . 
Libanius has composed a very weak apology , to justify his hero from a very absurd charge of poisoning his wife , and rewarding her physician with his mother's jewels . 
Feriarum die quem celebrantes mense Januario , Christiani Epiphania dictitant , progressus in eorum ecclesiam , solemniter numine orato discessit . 
the nativity and the baptism of their Savior . 
See Bingham's Antiquities of the Christian Church , l . 
, and Beausobre , Hist . 
The public and secret negotiations between Constantius and Julian must be extracted , with some caution , from Julian himself . 
who , on this occasion , appears to have possessed and used some valuable materials . 
The situation of Julian required a vigorous and immediate resolution . 
This solemn engagement , which seemed to be dictated by affection rather than by duty , was singly opposed by Nebridius , who had been admitted to the office of Praetorian praefect . 
After losing one of his hands by the stroke of a sword , he embraced the knees of the prince whom he had offended . 
Three hundred myriads , or three millions of medimni , a corn measure familiar to the Athenians , and which contained six Roman modii . 
See his oration , and the behavior of the troops , in Ammian . 
He sternly refused his hand to the suppliant praefect , whom he sent into Tuscany . 
Libanius , with savage fury , insults Nebridius , applauds the soldiers , and almost censures the humanity of Julian . 
In this promotion , Julian obeyed the law which he publicly imposed on himself . 
Neque civilis quisquam judex nec militaris rector , alio quodam praeter merita suffragante , ad potiorem veniat gradum . 
The hopes of Julian depended much less on the number of his troops , than on the celerity of his motions . 
In the neighborhood of Basil he assembled and divided his army . 
One body , which consisted of ten thousand men , was directed under the command of Nevitta , general of the cavalry , to advance through the midland parts of Rhaetia and Noricum . 
For himself Julian had reserved a more difficult and extraordinary part . 
ascribes the same practice , and the same motive , to Alexander the Great and other skilful generals . 
See Cluver , Germania Antiqua . 
, , with Gregory Nazianzen , Orat . 
Even the saint admires the speed and secrecy of this march . 
the Arlapensis , the Maginensis and mentions five legions , or cohorts , of Libernarii , who should be a sort of marines . 
has specified this interesting circumstance . 
who accompanied Julian , as count of the sacred largesses , describes this voyage in a florid and picturesque manner , challenges Triptolemus and the Argonauts of Greece , c . 
M. The description of Ammianus , which might be supported by collateral evidence , ascertains the precise situation of the Angustine Succorum , or passes of Succi . 
M. d'Anville , from the trifling resemblance of names , has placed them between Sardica and Naissus . 
For my own justification I am obliged to mention the only error which I have discovered in the maps or writings of that admirable geographer . 
still supplies the series of the narrative . 
The homage which Julian obtained , from the fears or the inclination of the people , extended far beyond the immediate effect of his arms . 
His application to the senate of Rome , which was still permitted to bestow the titles of Imperial power , was agreeable to the forms of the expiring republic . 
positively asserts , that he intercepted the letters of Constantius to the Barbarians and Libanius as positively affirms , that he read them on his march to the troops and the cities . 
expresses himself with cool and candid hesitation , si famoe solius admittenda est fides . 
He specifies , however , an intercepted letter from Vadomair to Constantius , which supposes an intimate correspondence between them . 
Zosimus mentions his epistles to the Athenians , the Corinthians , and the Lacedaemonians . 
The substance was probably the same , though the address was properly varied . 
and has afforded much valuable information . 
and is one of the best manifestoes to be found in any language . 
It is amusing enough to observe the secret conflicts of the senate between flattery and fear . 
The intelligence of the march and rapid progress of Julian was speedily transmitted to his rival , who , by the retreat of Sapor , had obtained some respite from the Persian war . 
The vigilance of Julian perceived at once the extent of the mischief , and the necessity of applying an immediate remedy . 
By his order , Jovinus led back a part of the army into Italy and the siege of Aquileia was formed with diligence , and prosecuted with vigor . 
Tanquam venaticiam praedam caperet hoc enim ad Jeniendum suorum metum subinde praedicabat . 
See the speech and preparations in Ammianus , xxi . 
He seems to describe , with superfluous labor , the operations of the siege of Aquileia , which , on this occasion , maintained its impregnable fame . 
ascribes this accidental revolt to the wisdom of Constantius , whose assured victory he announces with some appearance of truth . 
Constantio quem credebat procul dubio fore victorem nemo enim omnium tunc ab hac constanti sententia discrepebat . 
The approach of winter could not detain the monarch at Antioch and his favorites durst not oppose his impatient desire of revenge . 
His genuine character , which was composed of pride and weakness , of superstition and cruelty , has been fully displayed in the preceding narrative of civil and ecclesiastical events . 
The military designs of that prince , who had formed three different attacks against Thrace , were prevented by this fortunate event . 
Without shedding the blood of his fellow citizens , he escaped the dangers of a doubtful conflict , and acquired the advantages of a complete victory . 
Impatient to visit the place of his birth , and the new capital of the empire , he advanced from Naissus through the mountains of Haemus , and the cities of Thrace . 
A few days afterwards , when the remains of the deceased emperor were landed in the harbor , the subjects of Julian applauded the real or affected humanity of their sovereign . 
who accuses Julian of contriving the death of his benefactor . 
is not improbable in itself , nor incompatible with the public verbal testament which prudential considerations might dictate in the last moments of his life . 
Note Wagner thinks this sudden change of sentiment altogether a fiction of the attendant courtiers and chiefs of the army . 
who up to this time had been hostile to Julian . 
sinks to the grave simplicity of an historian . 
These writers , and their followers , Pagans , Catholics , Arians , beheld with very different eyes both the dead and the living emperor . 
The day and year of the birth of Julian are not perfectly ascertained . 
The day is probably the sixth of November , and the year must be either or . 
I have preferred the earlier date . 
Chapter XXII Julian Declared Emperor . 
Philosophy had instructed Julian to compare the advantages of action and retirement but the elevation of his birth , and the accidents of his life , never allowed him the freedom of choice . 
The throne of Julian , which the death of Constantius fixed on an independent basis , was the seat of reason , of virtue , and perhaps of vanity . 
left his mind and body always free and active , for the various and important business of an author , a pontiff , a magistrate , a general , and a prince . 
has expressed these philosophical ideas with much eloquence and some affectation , in a very elaborate epistle to Themistius . 
who has given an elegant translation , is inclined to believe that it was the celebrated Themistius , whose orations are still extant . 
observes that this passage is taken from the fourth book De Legibus but either Julian quoted from memory , or his MSS . 
were different from ours Xenophon opens the Cyropaedia with a similar reflection . 
of Vossius , unsatisfied with the single beast , affords the stronger reading of which the experience of despotism may warrant . 
has given this interesting detail of the private life of Julian . 
mentions his vegetable diet , and upbraids the gross and sensual appetite of the people of Antioch . 
The chastity of Julian is confirmed by the impartial testimony of Ammianus , and the partial silence of the Christians . 
Yet Julian ironically urges the reproach of the people of Antioch , that he almost always in Misopogon , p . 
See Salmasius ad Sueton in Claud . 
A twenty fifth race , or missus , was added , to complete the number of one hundred chariots , four of which , the four colors , started each heat . 
Centum quadrijugos agitabo ad flumina currus . 
it might be about a four mile course . 
Julius Caesar had offended the Roman people by reading his despatches during the actual race . 
Augustus indulged their taste , or his own , by his constant attention to the important business of the Circus , for which he professed the warmest inclination . 
The reformation of the Imperial court was one of the first and most necessary acts of the government of Julian . 
Soon after his entrance into the palace of Constantinople , he had occasion for the service of a barber . 
An officer , magnificently dressed , immediately presented himself . 
It is a barber , exclaimed the prince , with affected surprise , that I want , and not a receiver general of the finances . 
The monarch who resigned to his subjects the superiority of merit and virtue , was distinguished by the oppressive magnificence of his dress , his table , his buildings , and his train . 
The stately palaces erected by Constantine and his sons , were decorated with many colored marbles , and ornaments of massy gold . 
They abused their fortune , without considering their past , or their future , condition and their rapine and venality could be equalled only by the extravagance of their dissipations . 
The reformation of the palace is described by Ammianus , Libanius , Orat . 
Ego non rationalem jussi sed tonsorem acciri . 
Zonaras uses the less natural image of a senator . 
Yet an officer of the finances , who was satisfied with wealth , might desire and obtain the honors of the senate . 
The expressions of Mamertinus are lively and forcible . 
But in the execution of this salutary work , Julian is accused of proceeding with too much haste and inconsiderate severity . 
Such indeed was the temper of Julian , who seldom recollected the fundamental maxim of Aristotle , that true virtue is placed at an equal distance between the opposite vices . 
But with the fopperies , Julian affected to renounce the decencies of dress and seemed to value himself for his neglect of the laws of cleanliness . 
Had Julian consulted the simple dictates of reason , the first magistrate of the Romans would have scorned the affectation of Diogenes , as well as that of Darius . 
Libanius contents himself with a cold but positive denial of the fact , which seems indeed to belong more properly to Constantius . 
This charge , however , may allude to some unknown circumstance . 
he draws a very singular picture of himself , and the following words are strangely characteristic . 
Like him , I have contented myself with a transient allusion but the little animal which Julian names , is a beast familiar to man , and signifies love . 
But the work of public reformation would have remained imperfect , if Julian had only corrected the abuses , without punishing the crimes , of his predecessor's reign . 
We are now delivered , says he , in a familiar letter to one of his intimate friends , we are now surprisingly delivered from the voracious jaws of the Hydra . 
I do not mean to apply the epithet to my brother Constantius . 
It is not , however , my intention , that even those men should be oppressed they are accused , and they shall enjoy the benefit of a fair and impartial trial . 
The office of president was exercised by the venerable praefect of the East , a second Sallust , whose virtues conciliated the esteem of Greek sophists , and of Christian bishops . 
He was assisted by the eloquent Mamertinus , one of the consuls elect , whose merit is loudly celebrated by the doubtful evidence of his own applause . 
But the civil wisdom of two magistrates was overbalanced by the ferocious violence of four generals , Nevitta , Agilo , Jovinus , and Arbetio . 
He uses the words in writing to his friend Hermogenes , who , like himself , was conversant with the Greek poets . 
I have used the surname of Secundus , as a convenient epithet . 
See a curious note of the Abbe de la Bleterie , Vie de Julien , p . 
Note Gibbonus secundum habet pro numero , quod tamen est viri agnomen Wagner , nota in loc . 
It is not a mistake it is rather an error in taste . 
Wagner inclines to transfer the chief guilt to Arbetio . 
for bestowing the offices of Treasurer and Praefect on a man of wisdom , firmness , integrity , c . 
among the ministers of Julian , quorum merita norat et fidem . 
The chamberlain Eusebius , who had so long abused the favor of Constantius , expiated , by an ignominious death , the insolence , the corruption , and cruelty of his servile reign . 
were accepted as an inadequate atonement by the widows and orphans of so many hundred Romans , whom those legal tyrants had betrayed and murdered . 
The former was banished to Vercellae in Italy , and a sentence of death was pronounced against the latter . 
Some months after the tribunal of Chalcedon had been dissolved , the praetorian vicegerent of Africa , the notary Gaudentius , and Artemius duke of Egypt , were executed at Antioch . 
This measure , which , on the soundest principles of policy , may deserve our approbation , was executed in a manner which seemed to degrade the majesty of the throne . 
Ursuli vero necem ipsa mihi videtur flesse justitia . 
Libanius , who imputes his death to the soldiers , attempts to criminate the court of the largesses . 
Such respect was still entertained for the venerable names of the commonwealth , that the public was surprised and scandalized to hear Taurus summoned as a criminal under the consulship of Taurus . 
The summons of his colleague Florentius was probably delayed till the commencement of the ensuing year . 
The merit of Artemius , who demolished temples , and was put to death by an apostate , has tempted the Greek and Latin churches to honor him as a martyr . 
But as ecclesiastical history attests that he was not only a tyrant , but an Arian , it is not altogether easy to justify this indiscreet promotion . 
, and Vales , ad locum and the Codex Theodosianus , l . 
and Godefroy's Commentary , tom . 
Chapter XXII Julian Declared Emperor . 
Julian was slow in his suspicions , and gentle in his punishments and his contempt of treason was the result of judgment , of vanity , and of courage . 
The philosopher could excuse the hasty sallies of discontent and the hero could despise the ambitious projects which surpassed the fortune or the abilities of the rash conspirators . 
A more dangerous conspiracy was formed by ten of the domestic guards , who had resolved to assassinate Julian in the field of exercise near Antioch . 
excuses this minute and absurd tyranny , by supposing that actions the most indifferent in our eyes might excite , in a Roman mind , the idea of guilt and danger . 
This strange apology is supported by a strange misapprehension of the English laws , chez une nation . 
ou il est defendu da boire a la sante d'une certaine personne . 
Julian was not insensible of the advantages of freedom . 
He sincerely abhorred the system of Oriental despotism , which Diocletian , Constantine , and the patient habits of fourscore years , had established in the empire . 
On the calends of January , at break of day , the new consuls , Mamertinus and Nevitta , hastened to the palace to salute the emperor . 
From the palace they proceeded to the senate . 
But the behavior of Julian was uniformly supported . 
During the games of the Circus , he had , imprudently or designedly , performed the manumission of a slave in the presence of the consul . 
From Constantinople , the attention of the monarch was extended to the municipal senates of the provinces . 
He relieved the distress , and restored the beauty , of the cities of Epirus and Peloponnesus . 
Athens acknowledged him for her benefactor Argos , for her deliverer . 
the form of absolute government is contrary to nature . 
Both the prince and the philosopher choose , how ever to involve this eternal truth in artful and labored obscurity . 
That sentiment is expressed almost in the words of Julian himself . 
who mentions the wish and design of Julian , insinuates , in mysterious language that the emperor was restrained by some particular revelation . 
Julian in Misopogon , p . 
and the private displeasure which he affected to express , only gave a different tone to the servility of the court . 
has curiously traced the origin and progress of the word Dominus under the Imperial government . 
celebrates the auspicious day , like an elegant slave , astonished and intoxicated by the condescension of his master . 
Personal satire was condemned by the laws of the twelve tables Si male condiderit in quem quis carmina , jus est Judiciumque Horat . 
has eagerly embraced a declaration so agreeable to his own system , and , indeed , to the true spirit of the Imperial constitution . 
Yet the whole subject of the Curia , notwithstanding very ample materials , still remains the most obscure in the legal history of the empire . 
He particularly restored the city of Nicopolis and the Actiac games , which had been instituted by Augustus . 
He reigned in Mycenae at the distance of fifty stadia , or six miles from Argos but these cities , which alternately flourished , are confounded by the Greek poets . 
at a time when the Macedonian kings were obscure and unpopular in Greece . 
who distinctly mentions the orators of Homer . 
has rashly asserted that Julian was the only prince , since Julius Caesar , who harangued the senate . 
and many of his successors , possessed the faculty of speaking in public and it might be proved by various examples , that they frequently exercised it in the senate . 
has impartially stated the merits and defects of his judicial proceedings . 
has seen only the fair side , and his picture , if it flatters the person , expresses at least the duties , of the judge . 
Of the laws which Julian enacted in a reign of sixteen months , fifty four have been admitted into the codes of Theodosius and Justinian . 
has chosen one of these laws to give an idea of Julian's Latin style , which is forcible and elaborate , but less pure than his Greek . 
But the personal merit of Julian was , in some measure , independent of his fortune . 
When we inspect , with minute , or perhaps malevolent attention , the portrait of Julian , something seems wanting to the grace and perfection of the whole figure . 
His genius was less powerful and sublime than that of Caesar nor did he possess the consummate prudence of Augustus . 
The virtues of Trajan appear more steady and natural , and the philosophy of Marcus is more simple and consistent . 
Yet Julian sustained adversity with firmness , and prosperity with moderation . 
Ductor fortissimus armis Conditor et legum celeberrimus ore manuque Consultor patriae sed non consultor habendae Religionis amans tercentum millia Divum . 
Pertidus ille Deo , sed non et perfidus orbi . 
The consciousness of a generous sentiment seems to have raised the Christian post above his usual mediocrity . 
Chapter XXIII Reign Of Julian . 
Part I. The Religion Of Julian . 
He Attempts To Restore And Reform The Pagan Worship To Rebuild The Temple Of Jerusalem His Artful Persecution Of The Christians . 
The character of Apostate has injured the reputation of Julian and the enthusiasm which clouded his virtues has exaggerated the real and apparent magnitude of his faults . 
A more accurate view of the character and conduct of Julian will remove this favorable prepossession for a prince who did not escape the general contagion of the times . 
We enjoy the singular advantage of comparing the pictures which have been delineated by his fondest admirers and his implacable enemies . 
The actions of Julian are faithfully related by a judicious and candid historian , the impartial spectator of his life and death . 
The interesting nature of the events which were crowded into the short reign of this active emperor , deserve a just and circumstantial narrative . 
His motives , his counsels , and his actions , as far as they are connected with the history of religion , will be the subject of the present chapter . 
I shall transcribe some of his own expressions from a short religious discourse which the Imperial pontiff composed to censure the bold impiety of a Cynic . 
The variety and copiousness of the Greek tongue seem inadequate to the fervor of his devotion . 
) He concludes with a bold assurance , that he has erected a monument not less durable , and much more portable , than the columns of Hercules . 
See this long invective , which has been injudiciously divided into two orations in Gregory's works , tom . 
I have derived much assistance from a French version and remarks , printed at Lyons , . 
The names of Christ and of Constantius , the ideas of slavery and of religion , were soon associated in a youthful imagination , which was susceptible of the most lively impressions . 
They were even admitted to the inferior offices of the ecclesiastical order and Julian publicly read the Holy Scriptures in the church of Nicomedia . 
The study of religion , which they assiduously cultivated , appeared to produce the fairest fruits of faith and devotion . 
They prayed , they fasted , they distributed alms to the poor , gifts to the clergy , and oblations to the tombs of the martyrs and the splendid monument of St . 
Mamas , at Caesarea , was erected , or at least was undertaken , by the joint labor of Gallus and Julian . 
As the two princes advanced towards the years of manhood , they discovered , in their religious sentiments , the difference of their characters . 
The dull and obstinate understanding of Gallus embraced , with implicit zeal , the doctrines of Christianity which never influenced his conduct , or moderated his passions . 
But the independent spirit of Julian refused to yield the passive and unresisting obedience which was required , in the name of religion , by the haughty ministers of the church . 
He was educated in the Lesser Asia , amidst the scandals of the Arian controversy . 
He labored to effect that holy mark in the blood , perhaps of a Taurobolium . 
A. D. , No. , . 
till the twentieth year of his age . 
He escaped very narrowly from being a bishop , and perhaps a saint . 
Such a partial earthquake , attested by many living spectators , would form one of the clearest miracles in ecclesiastical story . 
who had forgot that man is by nature a gentle and social animal . 
The Pagan supposes , that because they had renounced the gods , they were possessed and tormented by evil daemons . 
See Julian apud Cyril , l . 
You persecute , says he , those heretics who do not mourn the dead man precisely in the way which you approve . 
He shows himself a tolerable theologian but he maintains that the Christian Trinity is not derived from the doctrine of Paul , of Jesus , or of Moses . 
As soon as Gallus was invested with the honors of the purple , Julian was permitted to breathe the air of freedom , of literature , and of Paganism . 
The deities of Olympus , as they are painted by the immortal bard , imprint themselves on the minds which are the least addicted to superstitious credulity . 
The weakness of polytheism was , in some measure , excused by the moderation of its claims and the devotion of the Pagans was not incompatible with the most licentious scepticism . 
, , , edit Commelin . 
A modern philosopher has ingeniously compared the different operation of theism and polytheism , with regard to the doubt or conviction which they produce in the human mind . 
The Idaean mother landed in Italy about the end of the second Punic war . 
The miracle of Claudia , either virgin or matron , who cleared her fame by disgracing the graver modesty of the Roman Indies , is attested by a cloud of witnesses . 
slides over the transaction with discreet ambiguity . 
I cannot refrain from transcribing the emphatical words of Julian Orat . 
This freedom of interpretation , which might gratify the pride of the Platonists , exposed the vanity of their art . 
His reasoning is less absurd than that of some modern theologians , who assert that an extravagant or contradictory doctrine must be divine since no man alive could have thought of inventing it . 
has employed much labor to illustrate their obscure lives and incomprehensible doctrines . 
He swears with the most fervent and enthusiastic devotion and trembles , lest he should betray too much of these holy mysteries , which the profane might deride with an impious Sardonic laugh . 
See the fifth oration of Julian . 
But all the allegories which ever issued from the Platonic school are not worth the short poem of Catullus on the same extraordinary subject . 
The transition of Atys , from the wildest enthusiasm to sober , pathetic complaint , for his irretrievable loss , must inspire a man with pity , a eunuch with despair . 
The theological system of Julian appears to have contained the sublime and important principles of natural religion . 
To the conduct of these divine ministers he delegated the temporal government of this lower world but their imperfect administration is not exempt from discord or error . 
The inferior gods might sometimes condescend to animate the statues , and to inhabit the temples , which were dedicated to their honor . 
They might occasionally visit the earth , but the heavens were the proper throne and symbol of their glory . 
In the system of Platonists , the visible was a type of the invisible world . 
The celestial bodies , as they were informed by a divine spirit , might be considered as the objects the most worthy of religious worship . 
The true religion of Julian may be deduced from the Caesars , p . 
, with Spanheim's notes and illustrations , from the fragments in Cyril , l . 
, , and especially from the theological oration in Solem Regem , p . 
, addressed in the confidence of friendship , to the praefect Sallust . 
See Observations de Spanheim , p . 
he calls the Sun God , and the throne of God . 
Julian believed the Platonician Trinity and only blames the Christians for preferring a mortal to an immortal Logos . 
In every age , the absence of genuine inspiration is supplied by the strong illusions of enthusiasm , and the mimic arts of imposture . 
The sophists of Eunapias perform as many miracles as the saints of the desert and the only circumstance in their favor is , that they are of a less gloomy complexion . 
Instead of devils with horns and tails , Iamblichus evoked the genii of love , Eros and Anteros , from two adjacent fountains . 
Two beautiful boys issued from the water , fondly embraced him as their father , and retired at his command , p . 
Julian imbibed the first rudiments of the Platonic doctrines from the mouth of Aedesius , who had fixed at Pergamus his wandering and persecuted school . 
By his hands , Julian was secretly initiated at Ephesus , in the twentieth year of his age . 
His residence at Athens confirmed this unnatural alliance of philosophy and superstition . 
By these voluntary fasts , he prepared his senses and his understanding for the frequent and familiar visits with which he was honored by the celestial powers . 
These sleeping or waking visions , the ordinary effects of abstinence and fanaticism , would almost degrade the emperor to the level of an Egyptian monk . 
But the useless lives of Antony or Pachomius were consumed in these vain occupations . 
The dexterous management of these sophists , who played their credulous pupil into each other's hands , is fairly told by Eunapius with unsuspecting simplicity . 
Gregory supposes that they were frightened , but the priests declared that they were indignant . 
The reader , according to the measure of his faith , will determine this profound question . 
A dark and distant view of the terrors and joys of initiation is shown by Dion Chrysostom , Themistius , Proclus , and Stobaeus . 
which he dexterously or forcibly applies to his own hypothesis . 
Julian's modesty confined him to obscure and occasional hints but Libanius expiates with pleasure on the facts and visions of the religious hero . 
The important secret of the apostasy of Julian was intrusted to the fidelity of the initiated , with whom he was united by the sacred ties of friendship and religion . 
But this religion was viewed with a hostile eye by the successor of Constantine , whose capricious passions altercately saved and threatened the life of Julian . 
The apostate soon became the presumptive heir of the monarchy , and his death could alone have appeased the just apprehensions of the Christians . 
Libanius has considered the hypocrisy of his friend as a subject , not of censure , but of praise . 
His sentiments were changed but as it would have been dangerous to have avowed his sentiments , his conduct still continued the same . 
with inhuman zeal , censures Constantius for paring the infant apostate . 
cautiously observes , that such expressions must not be prises a la lettre . 
Chapter XXIII Reign Of Julian . 
The elaborate work , which he composed amidst the preparations of the Persian war , contained the substance of those arguments which he had long revolved in his mind . 
Some fragments have been transcribed and preserved , by his adversary , the vehement Cyril of Alexandria and they exhibit a very singular mixture of wit and learning , of sophistry and fanaticism . 
But in the assiduous prosecution of these theological studies , the emperor of the Romans imbibed the illiberal prejudices and passions of a polemic divine . 
have accurately compiled all that can now be discovered of Julian's work against the Christians . 
About seventy years after the death of Julian , he executed a task which had been feebly attempted by Philip of Side , a prolix and contemptible writer . 
would undertake the refutation of Julian . 
to the writings of Porphyry . 
but Libanius cannot be accused of flattery to a dead prince . 
The Christians , who beheld with horror and indignation the apostasy of Julian , had much more to fear from his power than from his arguments . 
The reluctant victim may be dragged to the foot of the altar but the heart still abhors and disclaims the sacrilegious act of the hand . 
Julian , who understood and derided their theological disputes , invited to the palace the leaders of the hostile sects , that he might enjoy the agreeable spectacle of their furious encounters . 
and Julian declares himself a Pagan in his public manifesto to the Athenians . 
This unquestionable evidence may correct the hasty assertion of Ammianus , who seems to suppose Constantinople to be the place where he discovered his attachment to the gods Ammianus , xxii . 
Bestia moritur , tranquillitas redit . 
omnes episcopi qui de propriis sedibus fuerant exterminati per indulgentiam novi principis ad acclesias redeunt . 
The wisest of the Pagans censured this extravagant superstition , which affected to despise the restraints of prudence and decency . 
Encouraged by the example , the exhortations , the liberality , of their pious sovereign , the cities and families resumed the practice of their neglected ceremonies . 
The jurisdiction of the supreme pontiff , more especially after that office had been united with the Imperial dignity , comprehended the whole extent of the Roman empire . 
Their humility may be shown in the plainness of their domestic garb their dignity , in the pomp of holy vestments . 
The priest of the gods should never be seen in theatres or taverns . 
His studies should be suited to the sanctity of his profession . 
The same spirit of imitation might dispose the emperor to adopt several ecclesiastical institutions , the use and importance of which were approved by the success of his enemies . 
But if these imaginary plans of reformation had been realized , the forced and imperfect copy would have been less beneficial to Paganism , than honorable to Christianity . 
Had the charge been proved it was his duty , not to complain , but to punish . 
He ridicules the folly of such vain imitation and amuses himself with inquiring , what lessons , moral or theological , could be extracted from the Grecian fables . 
Julian was pronouncing an oration before the senate , when he was informed of the arrival of Maximus . 
Maximus , who soon acquired the confidence , and influenced the councils of Julian , was insensibly corrupted by the temptations of a court . 
The same sentiment is frequently inculcated by Julian , Libanius , and the rest of their party . 
The curiosity and credulity of the emperor , who tried every mode of divination , are fairly exposed by Ammianus , xxii . 
in the same style of friendship and confidence , are addressed to the philosopher Maximus . 
has minutely related these anecdotes , which he conceives to be the most important events of the age . 
Yet he fairly confesses the frailty of Maximus . 
Note Eunapius wrote a continuation of the History of Dexippus . 
Some valuable fragments of this work have been recovered by M. Mai , and reprinted in Niebuhr's edition of the Byzantine Historians . 
M. Chrysanthius , who had refused to quit Lydia , was created high priest of the province . 
His cautious and temperate use of power secured him after the revolution and he lived in peace , while Maximus , Priscus , c . 
, were persecuted by the Christian ministers . 
See the adventures of those fanatic sophists , collected by Brucker , tom ii . 
La Cour de Julien est pleine de philosphes et de gens perdus . 
The armies of the East , which had been trained under the standard of the cross , and of Constantius , required a more artful and expensive mode of persuasion . 
On the days of solemn and public festivals , the emperor received the homage , and rewarded the merit , of the troops . 
Under the reign of Lewis XIV . 
his subjects of every rank aspired to the glorious title of Convertisseur , expressive of their zea and success in making proselytes . 
The word and the idea are growing obsolete in France may they never be introduced into England . 
is desirous to magnify the Christian firmness of his brother Caesarius , physician to the Imperial court , he owns that Caesarius disputed with a formidable adversary . 
In his invectives he scarcely allows any share of wit or courage to the apostate . 
Adeo ut in dies paene singulos milites carnis distentiore sagina victitantes incultius , potusque aviditate correpti , humeris impositi transeuntium per plateas , ex publicis aedibus . 
The devout prince and the indignant historian describe the same scene and in Illyricum or Antioch , similar causes must have produced similar effects . 
The sophist owns and justifies the expense of these military conversions . 
While the devout monarch incessantly labored to restore and propagate the religion of his ancestors , he embraced the extraordinary design of rebuilding the temple of Jerusalem . 
Under the reign of Constantine , the Jews became the subjects of their revolted children nor was it long before they experienced the bitterness of domestic tyranny . 
is addressed to the community of the Jews . 
has branded it with an but this stigma is justly removed by the subsequent editors , Petavius and Spanheim . 
The Misnah denounced death against those who abandoned the foundation . 
Constantine made a law to protect Christian converts from Judaism . 
Judaeorum seditio , qui Patricium , nefarie in regni speciem sustulerunt , oppressa . 
Aurelius Victor , in Constantio , c . 
The city and synagogue of Tiberias are curiously described by Reland . 
Chapter XXIII Reign Of Julian . 
In the midst of a rocky and barren country , the walls of Jerusalem enclosed the two mountains of Sion and Acra , within an oval figure of about three English miles . 
After the final destruction of the temple by the arms of Titus and Hadrian , a ploughshare was drawn over the consecrated ground , as a sign of perpetual interdiction . 
Sion was deserted and the vacant space of the lower city was filled with the public and private edifices of the Aelian colony , which spread themselves over the adjacent hill of Calvary . 
describes , with learning and perspicuity , Jerusalem , and the face of the adjacent country . 
was stadia , or toises . 
A plan , taken on the spot , assigns no more than for the modern town . 
The circuit is defined by natural landmarks , which cannot be mistaken or removed . 
On the site of the Holy Sepulchre , compare the chapter in Professor Robinson's Travels in Palestine , which has renewed the old controversy with great vigor . 
To me , this temple of Venus , said to have been erected by Hadrian to insult the Christians , is not the least suspicious part of the whole legend . 
The emperor likewise built churches at Bethlem , the Mount of Olives , and the oa of Mambre . 
The zeal , perhaps the avarice , of the clergy of Jerusalem , cherished and multiplied these beneficial visits . 
They fixed , by unquestionable tradition , the scene of each memorable event . 
Such miracles as seemed necessary to account for its extraordinary preservation , and seasonable discovery , were gradually propagated without opposition . 
The Itinerary from Bourdeaux to Jerusalem was composed in the year , for the use of pilgrims among whom Jerom mentions the Britons and the Indians . 
The causes of this superstitious fashion are discussed in the learned and judicious preface of Wesseling . 
Much curious information on this subject is collected in the first chapter of Wilken , Geschichte der Kreuzzuge . 
has beautifully expressed the common sense of mankind . 
are the historians and champions of the miraculous invention of the cross , under the reign of Constantine . 
Their oldest witnesses are Paulinus , Sulpicius Severus , Rufinus , Ambrose , and perhaps Cyril of Jerusalem . 
The silence of Eusebius , and the Bourdeaux pilgrim , which satisfies those who think perplexes those who believe . 
See Jortin's sensible remarks , vol . 
who seems to have improved a rhetorical flourish of Cyril into a real fact . 
and other relics , which are repeated in so many different churches . 
has traced in a brief but interesting manner , the singular adventures of the true cross . 
It is curious to inquire , what authority we have , except of late tradition , for the Hill of Calvary . 
There is none in the sacred writings the uniform use of the common word , instead of any word expressing assent or acclivity , is against the notion . 
who resided in the neighboring village of Bethlem , describes the vices of Jerusalem from his personal experience . 
Nyssen , apud Wesseling , p . 
The whole epistle , which condemns either the use or the abuse of religious pilgrimage , is painful to the Catholic divines , while it is dear and familiar to our Protestant polemics . 
He renounced his orthodox ordination , officiated as a deacon , and was re ordained by the hands of the Arians . 
But Cyril afterwards changed with the times , and prudently conformed to the Nicene faith . 
The vain and ambitious mind of Julian might aspire to restore the ancient glory of the temple of Jerusalem . 
He was displeased with the spiritual worship of the synagogue but he approved the institutions of Moses , who had not disdained to adopt many of the rites and ceremonies of Egypt . 
These considerations might influence his designs but the prospect of an immediate and important advantage would not suffer the impatient monarch to expect the remote and uncertain event of the Persian war . 
the first place was assigned , by Julian himself , to the virtuous and learned Alypius . 
The desire of rebuilding the temple has in every age been the ruling passion of the children of Israel . 
Imperii sui memoriam magnitudine operum gestiens propagare Ammian . 
The temple of Jerusalem had been famous even among the Gentiles . 
but the wealth and religion of the Jewish nation was centred in one spot . 
is strongly marked with all the peculiarities which are imputed to the Warburtonian school . 
I shelter myself behind Maimonides , Marsham , Spencer , Le Clerc , Warburton , c . 
, who have fairly derided the fears , the folly , and the falsehood of some superstitious divines . 
See Divine Legation , vol . 
He doubly condemns the Christians for believing , and for renouncing , the religion of the Jews . 
Their Deity was a true , but not the only , God Apul Cyril . 
As the blood and smoke of so many hecatombs might be inconvenient , Lightfoot , the Christian Rabbi , removes them by a miracle . 
is bold enough to suspect to fidelity of the numbers . 
the Khalif Mokteder sacrificed , during his pilgrimage to Mecca , in the year of the Hejira , forty thousand camels and cows , and fifty thousand sheep . 
Barthema describes thirty thousand oxen slain , and their carcasses given to the poor . 
La Bleterie has neglected to translate the second of these epistles . 
See the zeal and impatience of the Jews in Gregory Nazianzen and Theodoret . 
But the Christians entertained a natural and pious expectation , that , in this memorable contest , the honor of religion would be vindicated by some signal miracle . 
Such authority should satisfy a believing , and must astonish an incredulous , mind . 
Yet a philosopher may still require the original evidence of impartial and intelligent spectators . 
At this important crisis , any singular accident of nature would assume the appearance , and produce the effects of a real prodigy . 
Built by Omar , the second Khalif , who died A. D. . 
This great mosque covers the whole consecrated ground of the Jewish temple , and constitutes almost a square of toises , or one Roman mile in circumference . 
See D'Anville , Jerusalem , p . 
Ammianus records the consults of the year , before he proceeds to mention the thoughts of Julian . 
Warburton has a secret wish to anticipate the design but he must have understood , from former examples , that the execution of such a work would have demanded many years . 
The subsequent witnesses , Socrates , Sozomen , Theodoret , Philostorgius , c . 
, add contradictions rather than authority . 
The bishop has ingeniously explained the miraculous crosses which appeared on the garments of the spectators by a similar instance , and the natural effects of lightning . 
to justify a bishop who had been condemned by the civil magistrate for burning a synagogue . 
Judaeos et Gentes , tom . 
, de Sto Babyla , edit . 
I have followed the common and natural supposition but the learned Benedictine , who dates the composition of these sermons in the year , is confident they were never pronounced from the pulpit . 
Cum itaque rei fortiter instaret Alypius , juvaretque provinciae rector , metuendi globi flammarum prope fundamenta crebris assultibus erumpentes fecere locum exustis aliquoties operantibus inaccessum hocque modo elemento destinatius repellente , cessavit inceptum . 
to extort a confession of the miracle from the mouths of Julian and Libanius , and to employ the evidence of a rabbi who lived in the fifteenth century . 
Such witnesses can only be received by a very favorable judge . 
It was suggested by a passage in Tacitus . 
M. The Temple itself was a kind of citadel , which had its own walls , superior in their workmanship and construction to those of the city . 
The porticos themselves , which surrounded the temple , were an excellent fortification . 
There was a fountain of constantly running water subterranean excavations under the mountain reservoirs and cisterns to collect the rain water . 
These excavations and reservoirs must have been very considerable . 
Josephus has related several incidents which show their extent . 
He was seized and carried to Rome for the triumph . 
His appearance made it be suspected that other Jews might have chosen the same asylum search was made , and a great number discovered . 
the haste with which that building was completed will not allow us to suppose that they belonged to that period . 
The Temple was destroyed A. C. the attempt of Julian to rebuild it , and the fact related by Ammianus , coincide with the year . 
There had then elapsed between these two epochs an interval of near years , during which the excavations , choked up with ruins , must have become full of inflammable air . 
This explanation is confirmed by the relation of an event nearly similar , by Josephus . 
As here there is no room for miracle , this fact may be considered as a new proof of the veracity of that related by Ammianus and the contemporary writers . 
The sudden sinking of the hill of Sion when Jerusalem was occupied by Barchocab , may have been connected with similar excavations . 
Lardner , perhaps alone of the Christian critics , presumes to doubt the truth of this famous miracle . 
The silence of Jerom would lead to a suspicion that the same story which was celebrated at a distance , might be despised on the spot . 
Note Gibbon has forgotten Basnage , to whom Warburton replied . 
M. Chapter XXIII Reign Of Julian . 
The restoration of the Jewish temple was secretly connected with the ruin of the Christian church . 
Julian still continued to maintain the freedom of religious worship , without distinguishing whether this universal toleration proceeded from his justice or his clemency . 
As he was sensible that the Christians gloried in the name of their Redeemer , he countenanced , and perhaps enjoined , the use of the less honorable appellation of Galilaeans . 
Such of these regulations as appeared necessary to check the ambition and avarice of the ecclesiastics , were soon afterwards imitated by the wisdom of an orthodox prince . 
The peculiar distinctions which policy has bestowed , or superstition has lavished , on the sacerdotal order , must be confined to those priests who profess the religion of the state . 
And this law was confirmed by the invariable practice of Julian himself . 
that the Platonists believed in the mysterious virtue of words and Julian's dislike for the name of Christ might proceed from superstition , as well as from contempt . 
and so far loses sight of the principles of toleration , as to wish . 
A just and severe censure has been inflicted on the law which prohibited the Christians from teaching the arts of grammar and rhetoric . 
The motives alleged by the emperor to justify this partial and oppressive measure , might command , during his lifetime , the silence of slaves and the applause of Gatterers . 
has collected the seeming differences of ancients and moderns . 
They may be easily reconciled . 
The Christians were directly forbid to teach , they were indirectly forbid to learn since they would not frequent the schools of the Pagans . 
de medicis et professoribus , leg . 
with Godefroy's Illustrations , tom . 
Orosius celebrates their disinterested resolution , Sicut a majori bus nostris compertum habemus , omnes ubique propemodum . 
officium quam fidem deserere maluerunt , vii . 
Proaeresius , a Christian sophist , refused to accept the partial favor of the emperor Hieronym . 
They had recourse to the expedient of composing books for their own schools . 
Pindar , Euripides , and Menander and Sozomen is satisfied , that they equalled , or excelled , the originals . 
Note Socrates , however , implies that , on the death of Julian , they were contemptuously thrown aside by the Christians . 
Under the administration of their enemies , the Christians had much to suffer , and more to apprehend . 
But the provincial ministers of his authority were placed in a less conspicuous station . 
It was the instruction of Julian to his magistrates , . 
not less prone to exaggeration , but more restrained by the actual knowledge of his contemporary readers . 
The consecrated lands , which had increased the patrimony of the sovereign or of the clergy , were clearly defined , and easily restored . 
Under the preceding reign , Mark , bishop of Arethusa , had labored in the conversion of his people with arms more effectual than those of persuasion . 
From this lofty station , Mark still persisted to glory in his crime , and to insult the impotent rage of his persecutors . 
He was at length rescued from their hands , and dismissed to enjoy the honor of his divine triumph . 
Julian spared his life but if the bishop of Arethusa had saved the infancy of Julian , posterity will condemn the ingratitude , instead of praising the clemency , of the emperor . 
we may find it difficult to persuade ourselves that the two orators are really describing the same events . 
was founded , or at least named , by Seleucus Nicator . 
Its peculiar aera dates from the year of Rome , according to the medals of the city . 
In the decline of the Seleucides , Emesa and Arethusa were usurped by the Arab Sampsiceramus , whose posterity , the vassals of Rome , were not extinguished in the reign of Vespasian . 
See D'Anville's Maps and Geographie Ancienne , tom . 
Wesseling , Itineraria , p . 
Epoch Syro Macedon , p . 
It is surprising , that Gregory and Theodoret should suppress a circumstance , which , in their eyes , must have enhanced the religious merit of the confessor . 
are confirmed by the unexceptionable and reluctant evidence of Libanius . 
how Gregory and Theodoret could mistake a Semi Arian bishop for a saint . 
is satisfied that , by saving the apostate , Mark had deserved still more than he had suffered . 
At the distance of five miles from Antioch , the Macedonian kings of Syria had consecrated to Apollo one of the most elegant places of devotion in the Pagan world . 
The ancient rites of Greece were imitated by the royal colony of Antioch . 
A stream of prophecy , which rivalled the truth and reputation of the Delphic oracle , flowed from the Castalian fountain of Daphne . 
The vigorous youth pursued , like Apollo , the object of his desires and the blushing maid was warned , by the fate of Daphne , to shun the folly of unseasonable coyness . 
The soldier and the philosopher wisely avoided the temptation of this sensual paradise where pleasure , assuming the character of religion , imperceptibly dissolved the firmness of manly virtue . 
and Casaubon illustrate this curious subject . 
Simulacrum in eo Olympiaci Jovis imitamenti aequiparans magnitudinem . 
The Olympic Jupiter was sixty feet high , and his bulk was consequently equal to that of a thousand men . 
might be easily performed by chemical preparations . 
The emperor stopped the source of such dangerous knowledge which was again opened by the devout curiosity of Julian . 
for the term of ninety Olympiads . 
But the Olympic games of Antioch were not regularly celebrated till the reign of Commodus . 
See the curious details in the Chronicle of John Malala , tom . 
, , , ) a writer whose merit and authority are confined within the limits of his native city . 
Fifteen talents of gold , bequeathed by Sosibius , who died in the reign of Augustus . 
The theatrical merits of the Syrian cities in the reign of Constantine , are computed in the Expositio totius Murd , p . 
Avidio Cassio Syriacas legiones dedi luxuria diffluentes et Daphnicis moribus . 
These are the words of the emperor Marcus Antoninus in an original letter preserved by his biographer in Hist . 
Cassius dismissed or punished every soldier who was seen at Daphne . 
quo lucus ibi spatiosior fieret delectatus amoenitate loci et aquarum abundantiz , Eutropius , vi . 
Sextus Rufus , de Provinciis , c . 
When Julian , on the day of the annual festival , hastened to adore the Apollo of Daphne , his devotion was raised to the highest pitch of eagerness and impatience . 
But the zeal of Antioch was diverted , since the reign of Christianity , into a different channel . 
The altar was deserted , the oracle had been reduced to silence , and the holy ground was profaned by the introduction of Christian and funereal rites . 
had rested near a century in his grave , his body , by the order of Caesar Gallus , was transported into the midst of the grove of Daphne . 
As soon as another revolution seemed to restore the fortune of Paganism , the church of St . 
Babylas was demolished , and new buildings were added to the mouldering edifice which had been raised by the piety of Syrian kings . 
The scene of infection was purified , according to the forms of ancient rituals the bodies were decently removed and the ministers of the church were permitted to convey the remains of St . 
Babylas to their former habitation within the walls of Antioch . 
The modest behavior which might have assuaged the jealousy of a hostile government was neglected , on this occasion , by the zeal of the Christians . 
The return of the saint was a triumph and the triumph was an insult on the religion of the emperor , who exerted his pride to dissemble his resentment . 
The Christians of Antioch asserted , with religious confidence , that the powerful intercession of St . 
discovers his own character with naivete , that unconscious simplicity which always constitutes genuine humor . 
that Apollo was disturbed by the vicinity of one dead man . 
clears and purifies the whole ground , according to the rites which the Athenians formerly practised in the Isle of Delos . 
rather insinuates , than affirms , their guilt . 
treats the imputation as levissimus rumor , and relates the story with extraordinary candor . 
et majorem ecclesiam Antiochiae claudi . 
Vie de Julien , p . 
Besides the ecclesiastical historians , who are more or less to be suspected , we may allege the passion of St . 
Theodore , in the Acta Sincera of Ruinart , p . 
The complaint of Julian gives it an original and authentic air . 
Chapter XXIII Reign Of Julian . 
This imperfect and reluctant confession may appear to confirm the ecclesiastical narratives that in the cities of Gaza , Ascalon , Caesarea , Heliopolis , c . 
, the Pagans abused , without prudence or remorse , the moment of their prosperity . 
may be considered as an original , though not impartial , witness . 
adds some tragic circumstances , of Christians who were literally sacrificed at the altars of the gods , c . 
George , from his parents or his education , surnamed the Cappadocian , was born at Epiphania in Cilicia , in a fuller's shop . 
His employment was mean he rendered it infamous . 
He accumulated wealth by the basest arts of fraud and corruption but his malversations were so notorious , that George was compelled to escape from the pursuits of justice . 
After this disgrace , in which he appears to have saved his fortune at the expense of his honor , he embraced , with real or affected zeal , the profession of Arianism . 
The entrance of the new archbishop was that of a Barbarian conqueror and each moment of his reign was polluted by cruelty and avarice . 
The primate of Egypt assumed the pomp and insolence of his lofty station but he still betrayed the vices of his base and servile extraction . 
The merchants of Alexandria were impoverished by the unjust , and almost universal , monopoly , which he acquired , of nitre , salt , paper , funerals , c . 
and the spiritual father of a great people condescended to practise the vile and pernicious arts of an informer . 
The messenger who proclaimed at Alexandria the accession of Julian , announced the downfall of the archbishop . 
George , with two of his obsequious ministers , Count Diodorus , and Dracontius , master of the mint were ignominiously dragged in chains to the public prison . 
At the end of twenty four days , the prison was forced open by the rage of a superstitious multitude , impatient of the tedious forms of judicial proceedings . 
The fears of the Pagans were just , and their precautions ineffectual . 
The meritorious death of the archbishop obliterated the memory of his life . 
The rival of Athanasius was dear and sacred to the Arians , and the seeming conversion of those sectaries introduced his worship into the bosom of the Catholic church . 
George of England , the patron of arms , of chivalry , and of the garter . 
The invectives of the two saints might not deserve much credit , unless they were confirmed by the testimony of the cool and impartial infidel . 
He praises the merit of the collection , from whence he had borrowed and transcribed several manuscripts while he pursued his studies in Cappadocia . 
Julian himself says , that they tore him to pieces like dogs , Epist . 
M. Philostorgius , with cautious malice , insinuates their guilt , l . 
Epiphanius proves to the Arians , that George was not a martyr . 
have in like manner usurped the honors of the Catholic saints and martyrs . 
The saints of Cappadocia , Basil , and the Gregories , were ignorant of their holy companion . 
Pope Gelasius , the first Catholic who acknowledges St . 
George , places him among the martyrs qui Deo magis quam hominibus noti sunt . 
He rejects his Acts as the composition of heretics . 
Some , perhaps , not the oldest , of the spurious Acts , are still extant and , through a cloud of fiction , we may yet distinguish the combat which St . 
George of Cappadocia sustained , in the presence of Queen Alexandria , against the magician Afhanasius . 
This transformation is not given as absolutely certain , but as extremely probable . 
See the Longueruana , tom . 
wrote a tract to vindicate the existence and the orthodoxy of the tutelar saint of England . 
He succeeds , I think , in tracing the worship of St . 
George up to a period which makes it improbable that so notorious an Arian could be palmed upon the Catholic church as a saint and a martyr . 
The Acts rejected by Gelasius may have been of Arian origin , and designed to ingraft the story of their hero on the obscure adventures of some earlier saint . 
See an Historical and Critical Inquiry into the Existence and Character of Saint George , in a letter to the Earl of Leicester , by the Rev . 
M. A curious history of the worship of St . 
might be extracted from Dr . 
His fame and popularity in Europe , and especially in England , proceeded from the Crusades . 
I show myself , says Julian , the true friend of the Galilaeans . 
Take care , pursued the monarch , in a more serious tone , take care how you provoke my patience and humanity . 
He allowed his friends to assuage his anger Ammian . 
His pastoral labors were not confined to the narrow limits of Egypt . 
Three years were not yet elapsed since the majority of the bishops of the West had ignorantly , or reluctantly , subscribed the Confession of Rimini . 
, who justly states the temperate zeal of the primate , as much more meritorious than his prayers , his fasts , his persecutions , c . 
I have not leisure to follow the blind obstinacy of Lucifer of Cagliari . 
and observe how the color of the narrative insensibly changes , as the confessor becomes a schismatic . 
Assensus est huic sententiae Occidens , et , per tam necessarium conilium , Satanae faucibus mundus ereptus . 
exhibits an original picture of the ecclesiastical policy of the times . 
The skill and diligence of the primate of Egypt had improved the season of tranquillity , before it was interrupted by the hostile edicts of the emperor . 
Julian , who despised the Christians , honored Athanasius with his sincere and peculiar hatred . 
For his sake alone , he introduced an arbitrary distinction , repugnant at least to the spirit of his former declarations . 
But the knowledge of their sentiments , instead of persuading him to recall his decree , provoked him to extend to all Egypt the term of the exile of Athanasius . 
The execution of the sentence was still delayed , by the caution or negligence of Ecdicius , praefect of Egypt , who was at length awakened from his lethargy by a severe reprimand . 
My intentions have been long since communicated to you . 
You know my temper I am slow to condemn , but I am still slower to forgive . 
This epistle was enforced by a short postscript , written with the emperor's own hand . 
The contempt that is shown for all the gods fills me with grief and indignation . 
There is nothing that I should see , nothing that I should hear , with more pleasure , than the expulsion of Athanasius from all Egypt . 
The abominable wretch ! Under my reign , the baptism of several Grecian ladies of the highest rank has been the effect of his persecutions . 
The death of Athanasius was not expressly commanded but the praefect of Egypt understood that it was safer for him to exceed , than to neglect , the orders of an irritated master . 
affords many important dates , which are authenticated by the computation of Egyptian months . 
I have preserved the ambiguous sense of the last word , the ambiguity of a tyrant who wished to find , or to create , guilt . 
The three epistles of Julian , which explain his intentions and conduct with regard to Athanasius , should be disposed in the following chronological order , xxvi . 
, and Tillemont , Mem . 
, who has used some materials prepared by the Bollandists . 
The sentence in the text is from Epist . 
addressed to the people of Alexandria . 
M. I have endeavored faithfully to represent the artful system by which Julian proposed to obtain the effects , without incurring the guilt , or reproach , of persecution . 
The meekness and resignation which had distinguished the primitive disciples of the gospel , was the object of the applause , rather than of the imitation of their successors . 
The acts of violence , which were no longer countenanced by the magistrates , were still committed by the zeal of the people . 
These present hardships , intolerable as they might appear , were represented as a slight prelude of the impending calamities . 
The Christians considered Julian as a cruel and crafty tyrant who suspended the execution of his revenge till he should return victorious from the Persian war . 
They still protested , that prayers and tears were their only weapons against the impious tyrant , whose head they devoted to the justice of offended Heaven . 
He praises the rioters of Caesarea . 
owns , that their behavior was not dans l'ordre commun but he is perfectly satisfied , as the great St . 
Basil always celebrated the festival of these blessed martyrs . 
pretends to speak from the information of Julian's confidants , whom Orosius could not have seen . 
charges the Apostate with secret sacrifices of boys and girls and positively affirms , that the dead bodies were thrown into the Orontes . 
, and the equivocal candor of the Abbe de la Bleterie , Vie de Julien , p . 
Chapter XXIV The Retreat And Death Of Julian . 
Part I. Residence Of Julian At Antioch . 
His Successful Expedition Against The Persians . 
Passage Of The Tigris The Retreat And Death Of Julian . 
He Saves The Roman Army By A Disgraceful Treaty . 
The philosophical fable which Julian composed under the name of the Caesars , is one of the most agreeable and instructive productions of ancient wit . 
The immortals were placed in just order on their thrones of state , and the table of the Caesars was spread below the Moon in the upper region of the air . 
The tyrants , who would have disgraced the society of gods and men , were thrown headlong , by the inexorable Nemesis , into the Tartarean abyss . 
As soon as the feast was ended , the voice of Mercury proclaimed the will of Jupiter , that a celestial crown should be the reward of superior merit . 
When the judges of this awful contest proceeded to examine the heart , and to scrutinize the springs of action , the superiority of the Imperial Stoic appeared still more decisive and conspicuous . 
is enhanced by the rank of the author . 
A prince , who delineates , with freedom , the vices and virtues of his predecessors , subscribes , in every line , the censure or approbation of his own conduct . 
See this fable or satire , p . 
of the Leipsig edition of Julian's works . 
is coarse , languid , and correct and his notes , proofs , illustrations , c . 
, are piled on each other till they form a mass of close printed quarto pages . 
has more happily expressed the spirit , as well as the sense , of the original , which he illustrates with some concise and curious notes . 
a miscellaneous composition , either in prose or verse . 
But the Caesars of Julian are of such an original cast , that the critic is perplexed to which class he should ascribe them . 
Note See also Casaubon de Satira , with Rambach's observations . 
M. This mixed character of Silenus is finely painted in the sixth eclogue of Virgil . 
Every impartial reader must perceive and condemn the partiality of Julian against his uncle Constantine , and the Christian religion . 
On this occasion , the interpreters are compelled , by a most sacred interest , to renounce their allegiance , and to desert the cause of their author . 
Julian was secretly inclined to prefer a Greek to a Roman . 
The ambassadors of the East , from the continent of India , and the Isle of Ceylon , had respectfully saluted the Roman purple . 
The nations of the West esteemed and dreaded the personal virtues of Julian , both in peace and war . 
The impatience of the emperor urged the diligence of the military preparations . 
The generals were named and Julian , marching from Constantinople through the provinces of Asia Minor , arrived at Antioch about eight months after the death of his predecessor . 
Inde nationibus Indicis certatim cum aonis optimates mittentibus . 
ab usque Divis et Serendivis . 
have magnified , above fifteen times , the real size of this new world , which they extended as far as the equator , and the neighborhood of China . 
was applied by the ancients to the whole eastern coast of the Indian Peninsula , from Ceylon to the Canges . 
The name may be traced in Devipatnam , Devidan , Devicotta , Divinelly , the point of Divy . 
, considers the freedman with his embassy from Ceylon to have been an impostor . 
M. These embassies had been sent to Constantius . 
Ammianus , who unwarily deviates into gross flattery , must have forgotten the length of the way , and the short duration of the reign of Julian . 
Gothos saepe fallaces et perfidos hostes quaerere se meliores aiebat illis enim sufficere mercators Galatas per quos ubique sine conditionis discrimine venumdantur . 
Within less than fifteen years , these Gothic slaves threatened and subdued their masters . 
The warmth of the climate disposed the natives to the most intemperate enjoyment of tranquillity and opulence and the lively licentiousness of the Greeks was blended with the hereditary softness of the Syrians . 
Fashion was the only law , pleasure the only pursuit , and the splendor of dress and furniture was the only distinction of the citizens of Antioch . 
The Satire of Julian , and the Homilies of St . 
Chrysostom , exhibit the same picture of Antioch . 
Laodicea furnished charioteers Tyre and Berytus , comedians Caesarea , pantomimes Heliopolis , singers Gaza , gladiators , Ascalon , wrestlers and Castabala , rope dancers . 
See the Expositio totius Mundi , p . 
, in the third tome of Hudson's Minor Geographers . 
Julian in Misopogon , p . 
was inflamed , while Julian resided in that city , by the indiscreet ordination of Paulinus . 
of the quarto edition , which henceforward I shall quote . 
Babylas excited an implacable opposition to the person of Julian . 
The inclemency of the season had affected the harvests of Syria and the price of bread , in the markets of Antioch , had naturally risen in proportion to the scarcity of corn . 
But the fair and reasonable proportion was soon violated by the rapacious arts of monopoly . 
The hardships of their situation were exaggerated and increased by their own impatience and anxiety and the apprehension of a scarcity gradually produced the appearances of a famine . 
With this salutary view , the emperor ventured on a very dangerous and doubtful step , of fixing , by legal authority , the value of corn . 
The consequences might have been foreseen , and were soon felt . 
The remonstrances of the municipal senate served only to exasperate his inflexible mind . 
The same grievances were still the subject of the same complaints , which were industriously circulated by the wit and levity of the Syrian Greeks . 
Though he affected to laugh , he could not forgive . 
See Arbuthnot's Tables of Coins , Weights , and Measures , p . 
de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
Smith's Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations , vol . 
This last I am proud to quote as the work of a sage and a friend . 
Nunquam a proposito declinabat , Galli similis fratris , licet incruentus . 
like a skilful advocate , severely censures the folly of the people , who suffered for the crime of a few obscure and drunken wretches . 
insinuates how severely Tarentum had expiated the insult to the Roman ambassadors . 
Ammianus very justly remarks , Coactus dissimulare pro tempore ira sufflabatur interna . 
The elaborate irony of Julian at length bursts forth into serious and direct invective . 
Ipse autem Antiochiam egressurus , Heliopoliten quendam Alexandrum Syriacae jurisdictioni praefecit , turbulentum et saevum dicebatque non illum meruisse , sed Antiochensibus avaris et contumeliosis hujusmodi judicem convenire . 
who confesses to Julian himself , that he had shared the general discontent , pretends that Alexander was a useful , though harsh , reformer of the manners and religion of Antioch . 
Julian , in Misopogon , p . 
, and Valesius , ad loc . 
Libanius , in a professed oration , invites him to return to his loyal and penitent city of Antioch . 
Yet Antioch possessed one citizen , whose genius and virtues might atone , in the opinion of Julian , for the vice and folly of his country . 
The emperor's prepossession was increased and justified by the discreet pride of his favorite . 
Near two thousand of his letters a mode of composition in which Libanius was thought to excel are still extant , and already published . 
The critics may praise their subtle and elegant brevity yet Dr . 
might justly , though quaintly observe , that you feel , by the emptiness and deadness of them , that you converse with some dreaming pedant , with his elbow on his desk . 
His birth is assigned to the year . 
and seems to allude to some events of a still later date . 
has left a concise and unfavorable account . 
have illustrated the character and writings of this famous sophist . 
Chapter XXIV The Retreat And Death Of Julian . 
The father and the son were invited to the Imperial table . 
In the hurry of military preparation , and the careless confidence of a familiar correspondence , the zeal of Julian appears to have been lively and uniform . 
He informed Libanius of his progress as far as Hierapolis , by an elegant epistle , which displays the facility of his genius , and his tender friendship for the sophist of Antioch . 
It is singular enough that the Romans should have neglected the great communication between Antioch and the Euphrates . 
Bergier , Hist des Grands Chemins , tom . 
This name , of Syriac origin , is found in the Arabic , and means a place in a valley where waters meet . 
Julian says , the name of the city is Barbaric , the situation Greek . 
speaks of it in a manner to justify the praises of Julian . 
Notes to Le Beau , iii . 
might induce a suspicion , that Heirapolis had been the royal seat of the Assyrians . 
kept a regular account of all the fortunate omens but he suppresses the inauspicious signs , which Ammianus has carefully recorded . 
The temple of the Moon attracted the devotion of Julian but the halt of a few days was principally employed in completing the immense preparations of the Persian war . 
The emperor detached an army of thirty thousand men , under the command of his kinsman Procopius , and of Sebastian , who had been duke of Egypt . 
They were ordered to direct their march towards Nisibis , and to secure the frontier from the desultory incursions of the enemy , before they attempted the passage of the Tigris . 
The alienated mind of Tiranus was exasperated by the indiscretion of Julian , who treated the king of Armenia as his slave , and as the enemy of the gods . 
! Or Bambyce , now Bambouch Manbedj Arab . 
, or Maboug , Syr . 
It was twenty four Roman miles from the Euphrates . 
which particularly illustrates the expedition of Julian . 
There are three passages within a few miles of each other . 
Zeugma , celebrated by the ancients . 
Bir , frequented by the moderns and , . 
The bridge of Menbigz , or Hierapolis , at the distance of four parasangs from the city . 
Djisr Manbedj is the same with the ancient Zeugma . 
M. Haran , or Carrhae , was the ancient residence of the Sabaeans , and of Abraham . 
a work from which I have obtained much Oriental knowledge concerning the ancient and modern geography of Syria and the adjacent countries . 
On an inedited medal in the collection of the late M. Tochon . 
of the Academy of Inscriptions , it is read Xappan . 
to the th year of Constantius . 
Arsaces Tiranus , or Diran , had ceased to reign twenty five years before , in . 
The intermediate changes in Armenia , and the character of this Arsaces , the son of Diran , are traced by M. St . 
Martin , at considerable length , in his supplement to Le Beau , ii . 
As long as his Grecian queen Olympias maintained her influence , Arsaces was faithful to the Roman and Christian alliance . 
The patriarch Narses retired from the impious court to a safe seclusion . 
Yet Pharandsem was equally hostile to the Persian influence , and Arsaces began to support with vigor the cause of Julian . 
which rests on the Armenian historians , Faustos of Byzantium , and Mezrob the biographer of the Partriarch Narses . 
In the history of Armenia by Father Chamitch , and translated by Avdall , Tiran is still king of Armenia , at the time of Julian's death . 
F. Chamitch follows Moses of Chorene , The authority of Gibbon . 
says , in general terms , that Constantius gave to his brother's widow , an expression more suitable to a Roman than a Christian . 
uses a word much too soft for the occasion , monuerat . 
Martin considers it genuine the Armenian writers mention such a letter , iii . 
M. Arsaces did not abandon the Roman alliance , but gave it only feeble support . 
M. The military dispositions of Julian were skilfully contrived to deceive the spies and to divert the attention of Sapor . 
The legions appeared to direct their march towards Nisibis and the Tigris . 
The army of Julian , the most numerous that any of the Caesars had ever led against Persia , consisted of sixty five thousand effective and well disciplined soldiers . 
A formidable body of Scythian auxiliaries had been transported from another climate , and almost from another world , to invade a distant country , of whose name and situation they were ignorant . 
The broad channel of the Euphrates was crowded by a fleet of eleven hundred ships , destined to attend the motions , and to satisfy the wants , of the Roman army . 
The custom of ancient discipline required a military oration and Julian embraced every opportunity of displaying his eloquence . 
He animated the impatient and attentive legions by the example of the inflexible courage and glorious triumphs of their ancestors . 
Yet the prudence of the emperor induced him to secure a remote frontier , perpetually exposed to the inroads of the hostile Arabs . 
A detachment of four thousand men was left at Circesium , which completed , to the number of ten thousand , the regular garrison of that important fortress . 
Kirkesia the Carchemish of the Scriptures . 
M. Latissimum flumen Euphraten artabat . 
Somewhat higher , at the fords of Thapsacus , the river is four stadia or yards , almost half an English mile , broad . 
the enormous difference must chiefly arise from the depth of the channel . 
et Euphrates ambiunt flumina , velut spatium insulare fingentes . 
From the moment that the Romans entered the enemy's country , the country of an active and artful enemy , the order of march was disposed in three columns . 
The strength of the infantry , and consequently of the whole army was placed in the centre , under the peculiar command of their master general Victor . 
On the right , the brave Nevitta led a column of several legions along the banks of the Euphrates , and almost always in sight of the fleet . 
The left flank of the army was protected by the column of cavalry . 
Hormisdas and Arinthaeus were appointed generals of the horse and the singular adventures of Hormisdas are not undeserving of our notice . 
Such was the disposition of the three principal columns . 
Bustards and ostriches , antelopes and wild asses , appeared to be the only inhabitants of the desert and the fatigues of the march were alleviated by the amusements of the chase . 
which were subject to the Sassanides . 
rately expressed the order of march . 
of an eldest and posthumous child nor do I recollect that Ammianus ever gives him that title . 
Martin conceives that he was an elder brother by another mother who had several children , ii . 
M. See the first book of the Anabasis , p . 
This pleasing work is original and authentic . 
Yet Xenophon's memory , perhaps many years after the expedition , has sometimes betrayed him and the distances which he marks are often larger than either a soldier or a geographer will allow . 
confounds the antelope with the roebuck , and the wild ass with the zebra . 
These preliminaries of the expedition of Julian appear to have employed about fifteen days and we may compute near three hundred miles from the fortress of Circesium to the wall of Macepracta . 
See Voyages de Tavernier , part i . 
, and more especially Viaggi di Pietro della Valle , tom . 
He was ignorant of the old name and condition of Annah . 
Our blind travellers seldom possess any previous knowledge of the countries which they visit . 
Shaw and Tournefort deserve an honorable exception . 
This is not a title , but the name of a great Persian family . 
M. Famosi nominis latro , says Ammianus a high encomium for an Arab . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orientale , p . 
The name of Rodosaces does not appear in the list . 
Note Rodosaces malek is king . 
Martin considers that Gibbon has fallen into an error in bringing the tribe of Gassan to the Euphrates . 
In Ammianus it is Assan . 
Martin would read Massanitarum , the same with the Mauzanitae of Malala . 
Note This Syriac or Chaldaic has relation to its position it easily bears the signification of the division of the waters . 
M. considers it the Missice of Pliny , v . 
A multitude of artificial canals , dug without much labor in a soft and yielding soil connected the rivers , and intersected the plain of Assyria . 
The uses of these artificial canals were various and important . 
They served to discharge the superfluous waters from one river into the other , at the season of their respective inundations . 
Subdividing themselves into smaller and smaller branches , they refreshed the dry lands , and supplied the deficiency of rain . 
Yet I much regret that the Irak Arabi of Abulfeda has not been translated . 
into the broad stream of the Pasitigris , or Shutul Arab . 
The Euphrates formerly reached the sea by a separate channel , which was obstructed and diverted by the citizens of Orchoe , about twenty miles to the south east of modern Basra . 
the whole subject of palm trees . 
Assyria yielded to the Persian satrap an Artaba of silver each day . 
the specific gravity of water and silver , and the value of that metal , will afford , after a short process , the annual revenue which I have stated . 
Yet the Great King received no more than Euboic , or Tyrian , talents from Assyria . 
reveals an important difference between the gross , and the net , revenue of Persia the sums paid by the province , and the gold or silver deposited in the royal treasure . 
The monarch might annually save three millions six hundred thousand pounds , of the seventeen or eighteen millions raised upon the people . 
Chapter XXIV The Retreat And Death Of Julian . 
The trembling Assyrians summoned the rivers to their assistance and completed , with their own hands , the ruin of their country . 
The roads were rendered impracticable a flood of waters was poured into the camp and , during several days , the troops of Julian were obliged to contend with the most discouraging hardships . 
Two cities of Assyria presumed to resist the arms of a Roman emperor and they both paid the severe penalty of their rashness . 
Libanius says that it was a great city of Assyria , called after the name of the reigning king . 
The orator of Antioch is not mistaken . 
The Persians and Syrians called it Fyrouz Schapour or Fyrouz Schahbour in Persian , the victory of Schahpour . 
It owed that name to Sapor the First . 
It was before called Anbar St . 
Julian checked their ardor , that he might insure their success and immediately diverted the attention of the garrison , by the tumult and clamor of a general assault . 
The city was already taken . 
History has recorded the name of a private soldier the first who ascended from the mine into a deserted tower . 
The passage was widened by his companions , who pressed forwards with impatient valor . 
Fifteen hundred enemies were already in the midst of the city . 
The fortifications were razed to the ground and not a vestige was left , that the city of Maogamalcha had ever existed . 
The neighborhood of the capital of Persia was adorned with three stately palaces , laboriously enriched with every production that could gratify the luxury and pride of an Eastern monarch . 
Julian , on this occasion , showed himself ignorant , or careless , of the laws of civility , which the prudence and refinement of polished ages have established between hostile princes . 
Yet these wanton ravages need not excite in our breasts any vehement emotions of pity or resentment . 
And as guilty of a double treachery , having first engaged to surrender the city , and afterwards valiantly defended it . 
Gibbon , perhaps , should have noticed this charge , though he may have rejected it as improbable Compare Zosimus . 
The military criticisms of the saint are devoutly copied by Tillemont , his faithful slave . 
He practised , without effort , and almost without merit , the habitual qualities of temperance and sobriety . 
According to the dictates of that artificial wisdom , which assumes an absolute dominion over the mind and body , he sternly refused himself the indulgence of the most natural appetites . 
With the same firmness that he resisted the allurements of love , he sustained the hardships of war . 
When the Romans marched through the flat and flooded country , their sovereign , on foot , at the head of his legions , shared their fatigues and animated their diligence . 
In every useful labor , the hand of Julian was prompt and strenuous and the Imperial purple was wet and dirty as the coarse garment of the meanest soldier . 
The two sieges allowed him some remarkable opportunities of signalizing his personal valor , which , in the improved state of the military art , can seldom be exerted by a prudent general . 
His just indignation was expressed in the grave and manly language of a Roman . 
Riches are the object of your desires those riches are in the hands of the Persians and the spoils of this fruitful country are proposed as the prize of your valor and discipline . 
The revenue is exhausted the cities are ruined the provinces are dispeopled . 
That glory , and that virtue , may be your own , if you will listen to the voice of Heaven and of your leader . 
But if you will rashly persist , if you are determined to renew the shameful and mischievous examples of old seditions , proceed . 
there are many chiefs whose merit and experience are equal to the conduct of the most important war . 
Libanius de ulciscenda Juliani nece , c . 
The famous examples of Cyrus , Alexander , and Scipio , were acts of justice . 
Julian's chastity was voluntary , and , in his opinion , meritorious . 
observes , that nihil corruptius moribus . 
Ex virginibus autem quae speciosae sunt captae , et in Perside , ubi faeminarum pulchritudo excellit , nec contrectare aliquam votuit nec videre . 
Either Julian or his historian were unskillful antiquaries . 
He should have given mural crowns . 
I give this speech as original and genuine . 
Ammianus might hear , could transcribe , and was incapable of inventing , it . 
I have used some slight freedoms , and conclude with the most forcibic sentence . 
The successful valor of Julian had triumphed over all the obstacles that opposed his march to the gates of Ctesiphon . 
Near the ruins of Seleucia , the camp of Julian was fixed , and secured , by a ditch and rampart , against the sallies of the numerous and enterprising garrison of Coche . 
The fleet passed from the Euphrates into an artificial derivation of that river , which pours a copious and navigable stream into the Tigris , at a small distance below the great city . 
The prudence of the emperor foresaw the danger , and provided the remedy . 
From the information of the peasants , Julian ascertained the vestiges of this ancient work , which were almost obliterated by design or accident . 
By the indefatigable labor of the soldiers , a broad and deep channel was speedily prepared for the reception of the Euphrates . 
has ascertained the true position and distance of Babylon , Seleucia , Ctesiphon , Bagdad , c . 
seems to be the most intelligent spectator of that famous province . 
He is a gentleman and a scholar , but intolerably vain and prolix . 
might be successively restored , altered , divided , c . 
and these changes may serve to explain the seeming contradictions of antiquity . 
In the time of Julian , it must have fallen into the Euphrates below Ctesiphon . 
As it became necessary to transport the Roman army over the Tigris , another labor presented itself , of less toil , but of more danger , than the preceding expedition . 
could trample with the same ease a field of corn , or a legion of Romans . 
Our fellow soldiers , he eagerly exclaimed , are already masters of the bank see they make the appointed signal let us hasten to emulate and assist their courage . 
The difficulties of a steep and lofty ascent were increased by the weight of armor , and the darkness of the night . 
Rien n'est beau que le vrai a maxim which should be inscribed on the desk of every rhetorician . 
Gibbon must have read octogenas for octogenis . 
The five vessels selected for this service were remarkably large and strong provision transports . 
The strength of the fleet remained with Julian to carry over the army M. Libanius alludes to the most powerful of the generals . 
I have ventured to name Sallust . 
Ammianus says , of all the leaders , quod acri metu territ acrimetu territi duces concordi precatu precaut fieri prohibere tentarent . 
ipse cum levis armaturae auxiliis per prima postremaque discurrens , c . 
Yet Zosimus , his friend , does not allow him to pass the river till two days after the battle . 
A similar disposition is ascribed to the wise Nestor , in the fourth book of the Iliad and Homer was never absent from the mind of Julian . 
Their avarice might dispose them to hear the advice of Victor . 
The suburbs of Ctesiphon , according to a new fragment of Eunapius , were so full of provisions , that the soldiers were in danger of suffering from excess . 
Julian exhibited warlike dances and games in his camp to recreate the soldiers Ibid . 
At the very time when he declined the siege of Ctesiphon , he rejected , with obstinacy and disdain , the most flattering offers of a negotiation of peace . 
Sapor , who had been so long accustomed to the tardy ostentation of Constantius , was surprised by the intrepid diligence of his successor . 
The pride of royalty was humbled in the dust he took his repasts on the ground and the disorder of his hair expressed the grief and anxiety of his mind . 
He was astonished by the inflexible firmness of a hero , who remembered , most unfortunately for himself and for his country , that Alexander had uniformly rejected the propositions of Darius . 
The fleet and army were formed in three divisions , of which the first only had passed during the night . 
supplies us with a national tradition , and a spurious letter . 
Civitas inexpugnabilis , facinus audax et importunum . 
His fellow soldier , Eutropius , turns aside from the difficulty , Assyriamque populatus , castra apud Ctesiphontem stativa aliquandiu habuit remeansbue victor , c . 
Zosimus is artful or ignorant , and Socrates inaccurate . 
The ecclesiastical historian imputes the refusal of peace to the advice of Maximus . 
Such advice was unworthy of a philosopher but the philosopher was likewise a magician , who flattered the hopes and passions of his master . 
Chapter XXIV The Retreat And Death Of Julian . 
He felt the insult , and he accepted the advice . 
The Christian bishops , Gregory and Augustin , insult the madness of the Apostate , who executed , with his own hands , the sentence of divine justice . 
Yet there are not wanting some specious , and perhaps solid , reasons , which might justify the resolution of Julian . 
The navigation of the Euphrates never ascended above Babylon , nor that of the Tigris above Opis . 
The course of genuine history is interrupted by a most unseasonable chasm in the text of Ammianus . 
Of these Libanius alone attempts a faint apology for his hero who , according to Ammianus , pronounced his own condemnation by a tardy and ineffectual attempt to extinguish the flames . 
A celeritate Tigris incipit vocari , ita appellant Medi sagittam . 
Recollect the successful and applauded rashness of Agathocles and Cortez , who burnt their ships on the coast of Africa and Mexico . 
The cumbersome train of artillery and wagons , which retards the operations of a modern army , were in a great measure unknown in the camps of the Romans . 
The appearance of the hostile country was far more inviting . 
But , on the approach of the Romans , the rich and smiling prospect was instantly blasted . 
The visionary conquests of Hyrcania and India , which had so long amused , now tormented , the mind of Julian . 
The desponding troops obeyed the signal of the retreat , only seventy days after they had passed the Chaboras , with the sanguine expectation of subverting the throne of Persia . 
See the judicious reflections of the author of the Essai sur la Tactique , tom . 
, and the learned remarks of M. Guichardt Nouveaux Memoires Militaires , tom . 
, on the baggage and subsistence of the Roman armies . 
The Tigris rises to the south , the Euphrates to the north , of the Armenian mountains . 
The former overflows in March , the latter in July . 
These circumstances are well explained in the Geographical Dissertation of Foster , inserted in Spelman's Expedition of Cyras , vol . 
describes , as he had felt , the inconveniency of the flood , the heat , and the insects . 
Voyage de Niebuhr , tom . 
hours of march from Bagdad to Ecbatana , or Hamadan . 
These measures cannot exceed an ordinary parasang , or three Roman miles . 
The two last seem ignorant that their conqueror was retreating and Libanius absurdly confines him to the banks of the Tigris . 
But the most certain and irreparable loss of the Romans was that of time . 
Every day , every hour , as the supply diminished , the value and price of subsistence increased in the Roman camp . 
the education and dexterity of the Persian horsemen . 
has collected the testimonies of antiquity . 
without perceiving that Mark Antony and Julian were pursued by the same enemies , and involved in the same distress . 
The sophist of Antioch appears ignorant that the troops were hungry . 
While Julian struggled with the almost insuperable difficulties of his situation , the silent hours of the night were still devoted to study and contemplation . 
The army marched through a hilly country and the hills had been secretly occupied by the Persians . 
Julian led the van with the skill and attention of a consummate general he was alarmed by the intelligence that his rear was suddenly attacked . 
The Barbarians fled and Julian , who was foremost in every danger , animated the pursuit with his voice and gestures . 
Julian attempted to draw the deadly weapon from his side but his fingers were cut by the sharpness of the steel , and he fell senseless from his horse . 
His guards flew to his relief and the wounded emperor was gently raised from the ground , and conveyed out of the tumult of the battle into an adjacent tent . 
The report of the melancholy event passed from rank to rank but the grief of the Romans inspired them with invincible valor , and the desire of revenge . 
The bloody and obstinate conflict was maintained by the two armies , till they were separated by the total darkness of the night . 
But the event of the day was adverse to the Barbarians . 
quos terror , ut fugientium molem tanquam ruinam male compositi culminis declinaret . 
Libanius , de nece Julian . 
The first words that Julian uttered , after his recovery from the fainting fit into which he had been thrown by loss of blood , were expressive of his martial spirit . 
He called for his horse and arms , and was impatient to rush into the battle . 
His remaining strength was exhausted by the painful effort and the surgeons , who examined his wound , discovered the symptoms of approaching death . 
Friends and fellow soldiers , the seasonable period of my departure is now arrived , and I discharge , with the cheerfulness of a ready debtor , the demands of nature . 
I die without remorse , as I have lived without guilt . 
Detesting the corrupt and destructive maxims of despotism , I have considered the happiness of the people as the end of government . 
Submitting my actions to the laws of prudence , of justice , and of moderation , I have trusted the event to the care of Providence . 
that I was destined to fall by the sword . 
This much I have attempted to say but my strength fails me , and I feel the approach of death . 
I shall cautiously refrain from any word that may tend to influence your suffrages in the election of an emperor . 
My choice might be imprudent or injudicious and if it should not be ratified by the consent of the army , it might be fatal to the person whom I should recommend . 
I shall only , as a good citizen , express my hopes , that the Romans may be blessed with the government of a virtuous sovereign . 
The spectators were silent and Julian entered into a metaphysical argument with the philosophers Priscus and Maximus , on the nature of the soul . 
The efforts which he made , of mind as well as body , most probably hastened his death . 
In his last moments he displayed , perhaps with some ostentation , the love of virtue and of fame , which had been the ruling passions of his life . 
The character and situation of Julian might countenance the suspicion that he had previously composed the elaborate oration , which Ammianus heard , and has transcribed . 
The version of the Abbe de la Bleterie is faithful and elegant . 
I have followed him in expressing the Platonic idea of emanations , which is darkly insinuated in the original . 
has displayed that doctrine in an agreeable tale . 
who laments with tears of blood the death of Sarpedon his son , had a very imperfect notion of happiness or glory beyond the grave . 
were exempted from the formalities of the Roman law . 
This union of the human soul with the divine aethereal substance of the universe , is the ancient doctrine of Pythagoras and Plato but it seems to exclude any personal or conscious immortality . 
See Warburton's learned and rational observations . 
Divine Legation , vol ii . 
The whole relation of the death of Julian is given by Ammianus , an intelligent spectator . 
The calumnies of Gregory , and the legends of more recent saints , may now be silently despised . 
But the situation of a famished army , encompassed on all sides by a host of Barbarians , shortened the moments of grief and deliberation . 
While they debated , a few voices saluted Jovian , who was no more than first of the domestics , with the names of Emperor and Augustus . 
The tumultuary acclamation was instantly repeated by the guards who surrounded the tent , and passed , in a few minutes , to the extremities of the line . 
The strongest recommendation of Jovian was the merit of his father , Count Varronian , who enjoyed , in honorable retirement , the fruit of his long services . 
In the obscure freedom of a private station , the son indulged his taste for wine and women yet he supported , with credit , the character of a Christian and a soldier . 
The pride of this unexpected elevation was moderated by the just apprehension , that the same day might terminate the life and reign of the new emperor . 
Honoratior aliquis miles perhaps Ammianus himself . 
The primus or primicerius enjoyed the dignity of a senator , and though only a tribune , he ranked with the military dukes . 
These privileges are perhaps more recent than the time of Jovian . 
The soldiers supposed that the acclamations proclaimed the name of Julian , restored , as they fondly thought , to health , not that of Jovian . 
ascribe to Jovian the merit of a confessor under the preceding reign and piously suppose that he refused the purple , till the whole army unanimously exclaimed that they were Christians . 
Ammianus , calmly pursuing his narrative , overthrows the legend by a single sentence . 
Hostiis pro Joviano extisque inspectis , pronuntiatum est , c . 
has drawn from the life an impartial portrait of Jovian to which the younger Victor has added some remarkable strokes . 
has composed an elaborate history of his short reign a work remarkably distinguished by elegance of style , critical disquisition , and religious prejudice . 
Chapter XXIV The Retreat And Death Of Julian . 
Part V. The esteem of an enemy is most sincerely expressed by his fears and the degree of fear may be accurately measured by the joy with which he celebrates his deliverance . 
The welcome news of the death of Julian , which a deserter revealed to the camp of Sapor , inspired the desponding monarch with a sudden confidence of victory . 
On the ensuing day , the Barbarians , instead of harassing the march , attacked the camp , of Jovian which had been seated in a deep and sequestered valley . 
It appears , from Irocopius , that the Immortals , so famous under Cyrus and his successors , were revived , if we may use that improper word , by the Sassanides . 
Brisson de Regno Persico , p . 
In the ninth century , Sumere , or Samara , became , with a slight change of name , the royal residence of the khalifs of the house of Abbas . 
Note Sormanray , called by the Arabs Samira , where D'Anville placed Samara , is too much to the south and is a modern town built by Caliph Morasen . 
Serra man rai means , in Arabic , it rejoices every one who sees it . 
A similar expedient was proposed to the leaders of the ten thousand , and wisely rejected . 
Xenophon , Anabasis , l . 
It appears , from our modern travellers , that rafts floating on bladders perform the trade and navigation of the Tigris . 
must incline us to suspect that Ammianus had been too jealous of the honor of the Roman arms . 
In this hopeless condition , the fainting spirits of the Romans were revived by the sound of peace . 
The five provinces beyond the Tigris , which had been ceded by the grandfather of Sapor , were restored to the Persian monarchy . 
He acquired , by a single article , the impregnable city of Nisibis which had sustained , in three successive sieges , the effort of his arms . 
Singara , and the castle of the Moors , one of the strongest places of Mesopotamia , were likewise dismembered from the empire . 
embraces a poor subterfuge of national vanity . 
Tanta reverentia nominis Romani fuit , ut a Persis primus de pace sermo haberetur . 
He is called Junius by John Malala the same , M. St . 
Martin conjectures , with a satrap of Gordyene named Jovianus , or Jovinianus mentioned in Ammianus Marcellinus , xviii . 
M. ! The Persian historians couch the message of Shah pour in these Oriental terms I have reassembled my numerous army . 
I am resolved to revenge my subjects , who have been plundered , made captives , and slain . 
It is for this that I have bared my arm , and girded my loins . 
These authorities do not mention the death of Julian . 
M. ! ! The Paschal chronicle , not , as M. St . 
Martin says , supported by John Malala , places the mission of this ambassador before the death of Julian . 
The king of Persia was then in Persarmenia , ignorant of the death of Julian he only arrived at the army subsequent to that event . 
Martin adopts this view , and finds or extorts support for it , from Libanius and Ammianus , iii . 
M. It is presumptuous to controvert the opinion of Ammianus , a soldier and a spectator . 
the march is the difficulty . 
M. ! ! ! Sapor availed himself , a few years after , of the dissolution of the alliance between the Romans and the Armenians . 
The last mentioned writer , who was present in military station , styles this peace necessarium quidem sed ignoblem . 
If he had stretched as far as the Euphrates the claims of his ambition , he might have been secure , says Libanius , of not meeting with a refusal . 
Without adopting in its full force this malicious insinuation , we must acknowledge , that the conclusion of so ignominious a treaty was facilitated by the private ambition of Jovian . 
The difference of their conduct and success depended much more on their character than on their situation . 
quibus cupidior regni quam gloriae Jovianus , imperio rudis , adquievit . 
Sextus Rufus de Provinciis , c . 
or great Zab , a river of Assyria , feet broad , which falls into the Tigris fourteen hours below Mosul . 
They created these animals to attend the Tiger of the East . 
The Cyropoedia is vague and languid the Anabasis circumstance and animated . 
Such is the eternal difference between fiction and truth . 
But , if Jovian presumed to solicit those equitable terms , they were sternly refused by the haughty tyrant of the East , whose clemency had pardoned the invaders of his country . 
The small vessels , which had been saved from the conflagration of the fleet , performed the most essential service . 
They first conveyed the emperor and his favorites and afterwards transported , in many successive voyages , a great part of the army . 
At Thilsaphata , the emperor most graciously received the generals of Mesopotamia and the remains of a once flourishing army at length reposed themselves under the walls of Nisibis . 
According to Rufinus , an immediate supply of provisions was stipulated by the treaty , and Theodoret affirms , that the obligation was faithfully discharged by the Persians . 
Such a fact is probable but undoubtedly false . 
who describes a similar distress of Caesar's army in Spain Saeva fames aderat Miles eget toto censu non prodigus emit Exiguam Cererem . 
Proh lucri pallida tabes ! Non deest prolato jejunus venditor auro . 
His analysis of the two campaigns in Spain and Africa is the noblest monument that has ever been raised to the fame of Caesar . 
traces their march , and assigns the true position of Hatra , Ur , and Thilsaphata , which Ammianus has mentioned . 
Ur , Kasr or Skervidgi . 
The friends of Julian had confidently announced the success of his expedition . 
Their contemplation of fancied triumphs was disturbed by the melancholy rumor of his death and they persisted to doubt , after they could no longer deny , the truth of that fatal event . 
Such were the natural hopes and wishes of a rhetorician . 
Ammianus and Eutropius may be admitted as fair and credible witnesses of the public language and opinions . 
I have never found much delight or instruction in such political metaphysics . 
He was impatient to secure an empire at the expense of a few provinces and the respectable names of religion and honor concealed the personal fears and ambition of Jovian . 
Notwithstanding the dutiful solicitations of the inhabitants , decency , as well as prudence , forbade the emperor to lodge in the palace of Nisibis but the next morning after his arrival . 
The principal citizens of Nisibis , who , till that fatal moment , had confided in the protection of their sovereign , threw themselves at his feet . 
Their arguments , their eloquence , their tears , were ineffectual . 
Ammianus has delineated in lively colors the scene of universal despair , which he seems to have viewed with an eye of compassion . 
The highways were crowded with a trembling multitude the distinctions of rank , and sex , and age , were lost in the general calamity . 
The savage insensibility of Jovian appears to have aggravated the hardships of these unhappy fugitives . 
Similar orders were despatched by the emperor for the evacuation of Singara and the castle of the Moors and for the restitution of the five provinces beyond the Tigris . 
Sapor enjoyed the glory and the fruits of his victory and this ignominious peace has justly been considered as a memorable aera in the decline and fall of the Roman empire . 
At Nisibis he performed a royal act . 
, and Zosimus , l . 
The ecclesiastical Notitie may be consulted . 
Sextus Rufus de Provinciis , c . 
This general position must be applied and interpreted with some caution . 
One party lamented the approaching ruin of their altars the other celebrated the marvellous deliverance of their church . 
The Christians applauded , in lofty and ambiguous strains , the stroke of divine vengeance , which had been so long suspended over the guilty head of Julian . 
Above sixteen years after the death of Julian , the charge was solemnly and vehemently urged , in a public oration , addressed by Libanius to the emperor Theodosius . 
His suspicions are unsupported by fact or argument and we can only esteem the generous zeal of the sophist of Antioch for the cold and neglected ashes of his friend . 
He might be edax , vino Venerique indulgens . 
celebrated at Antioch , by the emperor , his wife , and a troop of concubines . 
handsomely exposes the brutal bigotry of Baronius , who would have thrown Julian to the dogs , ne cespititia quidem sepultura dignus . 
The Christian orator faintly mutters some exhortations to modesty and forgiveness but he is well satisfied , that the real sufferings of Julian will far exceed the fabulous torments of Ixion or Tantalus . 
Some saint or angel was observed to be absent in the night , on a secret expedition , c . 
applauds the Greek doctrine of tyrannicide but the whole passage , which a Jesuit might have translated , is prudently suppressed by the president Cousin . 
Immediately after the death of Julian , an uncertain rumor was scattered , telo cecidisse Romano . 
But the flying horseman , who darted the fatal javelin , might be ignorant of its effect or he might be slain in the same action . 
Ammianus neither feels nor inspires a suspicion . 
scatters suspicions , demands an inquiry , and insinuates , that proofs might still be obtained . 
He ascribes the success of the Huns to the criminal neglect of revenging Julian's death . 
This custom was practised in the funeral of Julian . 
His various character and singular manners afforded an ample scope for pleasantry and ridicule . 
In the exercise of his uncommon talents , he often descended below the majesty of his rank . 
Alexander was transformed into Diogenes the philosopher was degraded into a priest . 
The history of princes does not very frequently renew the examples of a similar competition . 
At the funeral of Vespasian , the comedian who personated that frugal emperor , anxiously inquired how much it cost . 
Give me the tenth part of the sum , and throw my body into the Tiber . 
Sueton , in Vespasian , c . 
, with the notes of Casaubon and Gronovius . 
compares this supposed ignominy and ridicule to the funeral honors of Constantius , whose body was chanted over Mount Taurus by a choir of angels . 
The luxuriancy of his descriptions has been often censured . 
Yet it was almost the duty of the historian to describe a river , whose waters had nearly proved fatal to Alexander . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
Part I. The Government And Death Of Jovian . 
Election Of Valentinian , Who Associates His Brother Valens , And Makes The Final Division Of The Eastern And Western Empires . 
His Two Sons , Gratian And Valentinian II . 
, Succeed To The Western Empire . 
The death of Julian had left the public affairs of the empire in a very doubtful and dangerous situation . 
The Christians had forgotten the spirit of the gospel and the Pagans had imbibed the spirit of the church . 
The Christians were unanimous in the loud and sincere applause which they bestowed on the pious successor of Julian . 
The intrepid veteran of the faith , at the age of seventy , had issued from his retreat on the first intelligence of the tyrant's death . 
The acclamations of the people seated him once more on the archiepiscopal throne and he wisely accepted , or anticipated , the invitation of Jovian . 
The venerable figure of Athanasius , his calm courage , and insinuating eloquence , sustained the reputation which he had already acquired in the courts of four successive princes . 
Before his departure from Antioch , he assured Jovian that his orthodox devotion would be rewarded with a long and peaceful reign . 
Athanasius , had reason to hope , that he should be allowed either the merit of a successful prediction , or the excuse of a grateful though ineffectual prayer . 
The medals of Jovian adorn him with victories , laurel crowns , and prostrate captives . 
Flattery is a foolish suicide she destroys herself with her own hands . 
is exaggerated by Sozomen who supposes , that an amorous glance , the adultery of the heart , was punished with death by the evangelic legislator . 
, and Philostorgius , l . 
, with Godefroy's Dissertations , p . 
The word celestial faintly expresses the impious and extravagant flattery of the emperor to the archbishop . 
celebrates the friendship of Jovian and Athanasius . 
he translates the singular and original conferences of the emperor , the primate of Egypt , and the Arian deputies . 
The Abbe is not satisfied with the coarse pleasantry of Jovian but his partiality for Athanasius assumes , in his eyes , the character of justice . 
In some Mss. this indiscreet promise is omitted perhaps by the Catholics , jealous of the prophetic fame of their leader . 
The memory of this law has been preserved by the orator Themistius , who was deputed by the senate of Constantinople to express their royal devotion for the new emperor . 
magnifies the number of the orthodox , who composed the whole world . 
This assertion was verified in the space of thirty and forty years . 
expresses the living sentiments of their respective factions . 
that Sozomen has forgot the general toleration and Themistius the establishment of the Catholic religion . 
Each of them turned away from the object which he disliked , and wished to suppress the part of the edict the least honorable , in his opinion , to the emperor . 
Notwithstanding their services , their fatigues , and the approach of winter , the timid and impatient Jovian allowed only , to the men and horses , a respite of six weeks . 
The emperor could not sustain the indiscreet and malicious raillery of the people of Antioch . 
He was impatient to possess the palace of Constantinople and to prevent the ambition of some competitor , who might occupy the vacant allegiance of Europe . 
But he soon received the grateful intelligence , that his authority was acknowledged from the Thracian Bosphorus to the Atlantic Ocean . 
Malarich had declined an office to which he thought himself unequal and Lucillian was massacred at Rheims , in an accidental mutiny of the Batavian cohorts . 
But the moderation of Jovinus , master general of the cavalry , who forgave the intention of his disgrace , soon appeased the tumult , and confirmed the uncertain minds of the soldiers . 
From Tyana he continued his hasty march to Ancyra , capital of the province of Galatia where Jovian assumed , with his infant son , the name and ensigns of the consulship . 
Dadastana , an obscure town , almost at an equal distance between Ancyra and Nice , was marked for the fatal term of his journey and life . 
After indulging himself with a plentiful , perhaps an intemperate , supper , he retired to rest and the next morning the emperor Jovian was found dead in his bed . 
The cause of this sudden death was variously understood . 
According to others , he was suffocated in his sleep by the vapor of charcoal , which extracted from the walls of the apartment the unwholesome moisture of the fresh plaster . 
Her disappointment and grief were imbittered by the anxiety of maternal tenderness . 
Six weeks before the death of Jovian , his infant son had been placed in the curule chair , adorned with the title of Nobilissimus , and the vain ensigns of the consulship . 
The libels of Antioch may be admitted on very slight evidence . 
who removes the scene of action from Rheims to Sirmium . 
Quos capita scholarum ordo castrensis appellat . 
Cugus vagitus , pertinaciter reluctantis , ne in curuli sella veheretur ex more , id quod mox accidit protendebat . 
Augustus and his successors respectfully solicited a dispensation of age for the sons or nephews whom they raised to the consulship . 
But the curule chair of the first Brutus had never been dishonored by an infant . 
The pilgrim of Bourdeaux , by omitting some stages , reduces the whole space from to miles . 
Note Dadastana is supposed to be Castabat . 
We cannot expect a perfect agreement , and we shall not discuss minute differences . 
who had reigned in his time , only two died a natural death . 
Such vague consolations have never wiped away a single tear . 
After the death of Jovian , the throne of the Roman world remained ten days , without a master . 
In a solemn assembly of the civil and military powers of the empire , the diadem was again unanimously offered to the praefect Sallust . 
The person of Valentinian was tall , graceful , and majestic . 
By the habits of chastity and temperance , which restrain the appetites and invigorate the faculties , Valentinian preserved his own and the public esteem . 
Ten days appear scarcely sufficient for the march and election . 
But it may be observed , . 
That the generals might command the expeditious use of the public posts for themselves , their attendants , and messengers . 
That the troops , for the ease of the cities , marched in many divisions and that the head of the column might arrive at Nice , when the rear halted at Ancyra . 
, and Godefroy , Dissertat . 
and the younger Victor have furnished the portrait of Valentinian , which naturally precedes and illustrates the history of his reign . 
M. According to Ammianus , he wrote elegantly , and was skilled in painting and modelling . 
Scribens decore , venusteque pingens et fingens . 
The invitation of the ministers and generals at Nice was of little moment , unless it were confirmed by the voice of the army . 
Yet such was the prevalence of ancient superstition , that a whole day was voluntarily added to this dangerous interval , because it happened to be the intercalation of the Bissextile . 
Judging , from the testimony of my past life , that I deserved to reign , you have placed me on the throne . 
It is now my duty to consult the safety and interest of the republic . 
The weight of the universe is undoubtedly too great for the hands of a feeble mortal . 
I am conscious of the limits of my abilities , and the uncertainty of my life and far from declining , I am anxious to solicit , the assistance of a worthy colleague . 
But , where discord may be fatal , the choice of a faithful friend requires mature and serious deliberation . 
That deliberation shall be my care . 
Let your conduct be dutiful and consistent . 
Retire to your quarters refresh your minds and bodies and expect the accustomed donative on the accession of a new emperor . 
The astonished troops , with a mixture of pride , of satisfaction , and of terror , confessed the voice of their master . 
The emperor , who suppressed his displeasure , without altering his intention , slowly proceeded from Nice to Nicomedia and Constantinople . 
rashly supposes that he understands an astronomical question , of which his readers are ignorant . 
is derived from the repetition of the sixth day of the calends of March . 
Si tuos amas , Imperator optime , habes fratrem si Rempublicam quaere quem vestias . 
The famous Hebdomon , or field of Mars , was distant from Constantinople either seven stadia , or seven miles . 
See Valesius , and his brother , ad loc . 
, and Ducange , Const . 
Symmachus praises the liberality of Valentinian in raising his brother at once to the rank of Augustus , not training him through the slow and probationary degree of Caesar . 
Exigui animi vices munerum partiuntur , liberalitas desideriis nihil reliquit . 
Niebuhr , , reprinted from Mai . 
M. Participem quidem legitimum potestatis sed in modum apparitoris morigerum , ut progrediens aperiet textus . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
Before Valentinian divided the provinces , he reformed the administration of the empire . 
All ranks of subjects , who had been injured or oppressed under the reign of Julian , were invited to support their public accusations . 
But among the favorites of the late emperor , there were many who had abused his credulity or superstition and who could no longer hope to be protected either by favor or justice . 
In the castle , or palace , of Mediana , only three miles from Naissus , they executed the solemn and final division of the Roman empire . 
When this important business had been amicably transacted , Valentinian and Valens embraced for the last time . 
wishes to disbelieve those stories , si avantageuses a un payen . 
Eunapius celebrates and exaggerates the sufferings of Maximus . 
yet he allows that the sophist or magician , the guilty favorite of Julian , and the personal enemy of Valentinian , was dismissed on the payment of a small fine . 
Ipae supra impacati Rhen semibarbaras ripas raptim vexilla constituens Princeps creatus ad difficilem militiam revertisti . 
M. Ammianus says , in general terms , subagrestis ingenii , nec bellicis nec liberalibus studiis eruditus . 
The orator Themistius , with the genuine impertinence of a Greek , wishes for the first time to speak the Latin language , the dialect of his sovereign . 
His presence of mind procured him a longer respite , and a more splendid fate . 
At first he lurked in the villages of Bithynia , continually changing his habitation and his disguise . 
The body of the people was infected with a spirit of discontent they regretted the justice and the abilities of Sallust , who had been imprudently dismissed from the praefecture of the East . 
They despised the character of Valens , which was rude without vigor , and feeble without mildness . 
The circumstances were propitious to the designs of a usurper . 
The soldiers , who were prepared for his reception , saluted their trembling prince with shouts of joy and vows of fidelity . 
The usurper improved this unexpected success with some degree of courage and dexterity . 
He artfully propagated the rumors and opinions the most favorable to his interest while he deluded the populace by giving audience to the frequent , but imaginary , ambassadors of distant nations . 
His generals passed the Bosphorus , and subdued , without an effort , the unarmed , but wealthy provinces of Bithynia and Asia . 
The alliance of Faustina , the widow of the emperor Constantius , who intrusted herself and her daughter to the hands of the usurper , added dignity and reputation to his cause . 
The princess Constantia , who was then about five years of age , accompanied , in a litter , the march of the army . 
The mother of Procopius might be a sister of Basilina and Count Julian , the mother and uncle of the Apostate . 
He mentions the report with much hesitation susurravit obscurior fama nemo enim dicti auctor exstitit verus . 
It serves , however , to remark , that Procopius was a Pagan . 
Yet his religion does not appear to have promoted , or obstructed , his pretensions . 
One of his retreats was a country house of Eunomius , the heretic . 
It may be suspected , from a fragment of Eunapius , that the heathen and philosophic party espoused the cause of Procopius . 
or in Niebuhr's edition , p . 
M. Hormisdae maturo juveni Hormisdae regalis illius filio , potestatem Proconsulis detulit et civilia , more veterum , et bella , recturo . 
I am ignorant whether the race of Sassan was propagated . 
The infant rebel was afterwards the wife of the emperor Gratian but she died young , and childless . 
Sequimini culminis summi prosapiam , was the language of Procopius , who affected to despise the obscure birth , and fortuitous election of the upstart Pannonian . 
In the mean while Valentinian was alarmed and perplexed by the doubtful intelligence of the revolt of the East . 
The timid monarch was saved from disgrace and ruin by the firmness of his ministers , and their abilities soon decided in his favor the event of the civil war . 
The reign of Procopius was apparently supported by powerful armies and obedient provinces . 
Lupicinus advanced by hasty marches , to bring the legions of Syria to the aid of Valens . 
Arintheus , who , in strength , beauty , and valor , excelled all the heroes of the age , attacked with a small troop a superior body of the rebels . 
In the two engagements of Thyatira and Nacolia , the unfortunate Procopius was deserted by his troops , who were seduced by the instructions and example of their perfidious officers . 
After wandering some time among the woods and mountains of Phyrgia , he was betrayed by his desponding followers , conducted to the Imperial camp , and immediately beheaded . 
The Germans are the common enemies of the state , Procopius the private foe of the Emperor his first care must be victory , his second revenge . 
M. Et dedignatus hominem superare certamine despicabilem , auctoritatis et celsi fiducia corporis ipsis hostibus jussit , suum vincire rectorem atque ita turmarum , antesignanus umbratilis comprensus suorum manibus . 
The strength and beauty of Arintheus , the new Hercules , are celebrated by St . 
Basil , who supposed that God had created him as an inimitable model of the human species . 
The same field of battle is placed by Ammianus in Lycia , and by Zosimus at Thyatira , which are at the distance of miles from each other . 
and the transcribers might easily convert an obscure river into a well known province . 
Note Ammianus and Zosimus place the last battle at Nacolia in Phrygia Ammianus altogether omits the former battle near Thyatira . 
See Wagner's note , in c . 
They often illustrate , and seldom contradict , each other . 
! Symmachus joins with Themistius in praising the clemency of Valens dic victoriae moderatus est , quasi contra se nemo pugnavit . 
M. Such indeed are the common and natural fruits of despotism and rebellion . 
An imaginary cause as capable of producing the most serious and mischievous effects . 
They easily discovered that the degree of their industry and discernment was estimated , by the Imperial court , according to the number of executions that were furnished from the respective tribunals . 
From the extremity of Italy and Asia , the young , and the aged , were dragged in chains to the tribunals of Rome and Antioch . 
Senators , matrons , and philosophers , expired in ignominious and cruel tortures . 
! ! This infamous inquisition into sorcery and witchcraft has been of greater influence on human affairs than is commonly supposed . 
the names of the Gentile philosophers became almost extinct and the Christian philosophy and religion , particularly in the East , established their ascendency . 
I am surprised that Gibbon has not made this observation . 
Heyne , Note on Zosimus , l . 
The sophist deplores the public frenzy , but he does not impeach the justice of the emperors . 
rejects the existence of magic . 
See Oeuvres de Bayle , tom . 
The sceptic of Rotterdam exhibits , according to his custom , a strange medley of loose knowledge and lively wit . 
But they could not have defended this obscure distinction against the acute logic of Bayle . 
In the Jewish and Christian system , all daemons are infernal spirits and all commerce with them is idolatry , apostasy c . 
, which deserves death and damnation . 
is tedious , disgusting , but sometimes sublime . 
Genus hominum potentibus infidum , sperantibus fallax , quod in civitate nostra et vetabitur semper et retinebitur . 
de Civitate Dei , l . 
, and the Theodosian Code l . 
The persecution of Antioch was occasioned by a criminal consultation . 
has copiously and fairly examined this dark transaction of the reign of Valens . 
Limus ut hic durescit , et haec ut cera liquescit Uno eodemque igni Virgil . 
Devovet absentes , simulacraque cerea figit . 
Such vain incantations could affect the mind , and increase the disease of Germanicus . 
The coarse and undistinguishing pencil of Ammianus has delineated his bloody figures with tedious and disgusting accuracy . 
Valens was of a timid , and Valentinian of a choleric , disposition . 
An anxious regard to his personal safety was the ruling principle of the administration of Valens . 
The favorites of Valens obtained , by the privilege of rapine and confiscation , the wealth which his economy would have refused . 
They praised his inflexible love of justice and , in the pursuit of justice , the emperor was easily tempted to consider clemency as a weakness , and passion as a virtue . 
The repeated gratification of this savage justice hardened the mind of Valentinian against pity and remorse and the sallies of passion were confirmed by the habits of cruelty . 
He could behold with calm satisfaction the convulsive agonies of torture and death he reserved his friendship for those faithful servants whose temper was the most congenial to his own . 
The merit of Maximin , who had slaughtered the noblest families of Rome , was rewarded with the royal approbation , and the praefecture of Gaul . 
Two fierce and enormous bears , distinguished by the appellations of Innocence , and Mica Aurea , could alone deserve to share the favor of Maximin . 
from all antiquity their virtues and vices . 
The younger Victor asserts , that he was valde timidus yet he behaved , as almost every man would do , with decent resolution at the head of an army . 
The same historian attempts to prove that his anger was harmless . 
Ammianus observes , with more candor and judgment , incidentia crimina ad contemptam vel laesam principis amplitudinem trahens , in sanguinem saeviebat . 
Cum esset ad acerbitatem naturae calore propensior . 
poenas perignes augebat et gladios . 
I have transferred the reproach of avarice from Valens to his servant . 
Avarice more properly belongs to ministers than to kings in whom that passion is commonly extinguished by absolute possession . 
He sometimes expressed a sentence of death with a tone of pleasantry Abi , Comes , et muta ei caput , qui sibi mutari provinciam cupit . 
A boy , who had slipped too hastily a Spartan bound an armorer , who had made a polished cuirass that wanted some grains of the legitimate weight , c . 
, were the victims of his fury . 
The innocents of Milan were an agent and three apparitors , whom Valentinian condemned for signifying a legal summons . 
strangely supposes , that all who had been unjustly executed were worshipped as martyrs by the Christians . 
Note Ammianus does not say that they were worshipped as martyrs . 
Onorum memoriam apud Mediolanum colentes nunc usque Christiani loculos ubi sepulti sunt , ad innocentes appellant . 
Yet if the next paragraph refers to that transaction , which is not quite clear . 
M. Ut bene meritam in sylvas jussit abire Innoxiam . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
The good sense of an illiterate soldier founded a useful and liberal institution for the education of youth , and the support of declining science . 
The fragments of the literary edicts of Valentinian imperfectly represent the school of Constantinople , which was gradually improved by subsequent regulations . 
That school consisted of thirty one professors in different branches of learning . 
The rule of conduct , which was prescribed to the students , is the more curious , as it affords the first outlines of the form and discipline of a modern university . 
It was required , that they should bring proper certificates from the magistrates of their native province . 
Their names , professions , and places of abode , were regularly entered in a public register . 
The studious youth were severely prohibited from wasting their time in feasts , or in the theatre and the term of their education was limited to the age of twenty . 
Valentinian appears to have been less attentive and less anxious to relieve the burdens of his people . 
The subjects of the East , who enjoyed the present benefit , applauded the indulgence of their prince . 
The solid but less splendid , merit of Valentinian was felt and acknowledged by the subsequent generation . 
See the Code of Justinian , l . 
Quod si exponendam putaverit animadversioni quae constituta est subjacebit . 
These salutary institutions are explained in the Theodosian Code , l . 
De Professoribus et Medicis , and l . 
De Studiis liberalibus Urbis Romoe . 
who has treated the interesting subject with the zeal and curiosity of a man of latters who studies his domestic history . 
with Godefroy's Paratitlon , which diligently gleans from the rest of the code . 
full of adulation , pedantry , and common place morality . 
has amused himself with celebrating the virtues and genius of Themistius , who was not unworthy of the age in which he lived . 
His reformation of costly abuses might entitle him to the praise of , in provinciales admodum parcus , tributorum ubique molliens sarcinas . 
But the most honorable circumstance of the character of Valentinian , is the firm and temperate impartiality which he uniformly preserved in an age of religious contention . 
His strong sense , unenlightened , but uncorrupted , by study , declined , with respectful indifference , the subtle questions of theological debate . 
that her gentle hand is able to eradicate from the human mind the latent and deadly principle of fanaticism . 
Testes sunt leges a me in exordio Imperii mei datae quibus unicuique quod animo imbibisset colendi libera facultas tributa est . 
Comme il s'etait prescrit pour regle de ne point se meler de disputes de religion , son histoire est presque entierement degagee des affaires ecclesiastiques . 
M. The friend of toleration was unfortunately placed at a distance from the scene of the fiercest controversies . 
The monks and bishops supported their arguments by invectives and their invectives were sometimes followed by blows . 
Athanasius still reigned at Alexandria the thrones of Constantinople and Antioch were occupied by Arian prelates , and every episcopal vacancy was the occasion of a popular tumult . 
After he had taken this decisive step , it was extremely difficult for him to preserve either the virtue , or the reputation of impartiality . 
At first , he pitied their blindness by degrees he was provoked at their obstinacy and he insensibly hated those sectaries to whom he was an object of hatred . 
were obliged to pay the penalty of their own faults , and of those of their adversaries . 
The enemies of Athanasius attempted to disturb the last years of his venerable age and his temporary retreat to his father's sepulchre has been celebrated as a fifth exile . 
Eudoxus was of a mild and timid disposition . 
he must have been extremely old since he had studied theology fifty five years before , under Lucian , a learned and pious martyr . 
, with Godefroy , p , , and Tillemont , Mem . 
Through the influence of his wife say the ecclesiastical writers . 
insults the persecuting spirit of the Arians , as an infallible symptom of error and heresy . 
was published by Valens against the Athanasian sectaries and the edict which excited the most violent clamors , may not appear so extremely reprehensible . 
The ministers of Valens seem to have extended the sense of this penal statute , since they claimed a right of enlisting the young and ablebodied monks in the Imperial armies . 
A detachment of cavalry and infantry , consisting of three thousand men , marched from Alexandria into the adjacent desert of Nitria , which was peopled by five thousand monks . 
The soldiers were conducted by Arian priests and it is reported , that a considerable slaughter was made in the monasteries which disobeyed the commands of their sovereign . 
has already conceived and intimated the same suspicion . 
delays the persecution till after the death of Valentinian . 
Such contradictions diminish the evidence , and reduce the term , of the persecution of Valens . 
the most authentic circumstances from the Panegyrics of the two Gregories the brother , and the friend , of Basil . 
do not present the image of a very lively persecution . 
Basilius Caesariensis episcopus Cappadociae clarus habetur . 
qui multa continentiae et ingenii bona uno superbiae malo perdidit . 
This irreverent passage is perfectly in the style and character of St . 
It does not appear in Scaliger's edition of his Chronicle but Isaac Vossius found it in some old Mss. which had not been reformed by the monks . 
surpassed in merit , if not in greatness , the pyramids , or the walls of Babylon . 
performs the duty of a commentator and advocate . 
supposes a second law to excuse his orthodox friends , who had misrepresented the edict of Valens , and suppressed the liberty of choice . 
See D'Anville , Description de l'Egypte , p . 
Hereafter I shall consider the monastic institutions . 
The monks of Egypt performed many miracles , which prove the truth of their faith . 
but what proves the truth of those miracles . 
His edict , addressed to Damasus , bishop of Rome , was publicly read in the churches of the city . 
He admonished the ecclesiastics and monks not to frequent the houses of widows and virgins and menaced their disobedience with the animadversion of the civil judge . 
As the guardian of domestic happiness and virtue , Valentinian applied this severe remedy to the growing evil . 
They sacrificed the pleasures of dress and luxury and renounced , for the praise of chastity , the soft endearments of conjugal society . 
after the example of Baronius , impartially collects all that the fathers have said on the subject of this important law whose spirit was long afterwards revived by the emperor Frederic II . 
, Edward I. of England , and other Christian princes who reigned after the twelfth century . 
He undoubtedly possessed the affection , both of the mother and the daughter but he declares that he never abused his influence to any selfish or sensual purpose . 
Pudet dicere , sacerdotes idolorum , mimi et aurigae , et scorta , haereditates capiunt solis clericis ac monachis hac lege prohibetur . 
Et non prohibetur a persecutoribus , sed a principibus Christianis . 
Nec de lege queror sed doleo cur meruerimus hanc legem . 
discreetly insinuates the secret policy of his patron Damasus . 
The ardor of Damasus and Ursinus , to seize the episcopal seat , surpassed the ordinary measure of human ambition . 
wash away all his stains , and blind the devout eyes of Tillemont . 
But an original libel , or petition of two presbyters of the adverse party , has unaccountably escaped . 
This petition is published by the P. Sirmond , in the first volume of his work . 
The Basilica of Sicininus , or Liberius , is probably the church of Sancta Maria Maggiore , on the Esquiline hill . 
Baronius , A. D. No. and Donatus , Roma Antiqua et Nova , l . 
The enemies of Damasus styled him Auriscalpius Matronarum the ladies' ear scratcher . 
describes the pride and luxury of the prelates who reigned in the Imperial cities their gilt car , fiery steeds , numerous train , c . 
The crowd gave way as to a wild beast . 
Perpetuo Numini , verisque ejus cultoribus . 
records , in two columns , his religious and civil honors . 
In one line he was Pontiff of the Sun , and of Vesta , Augur , Quindecemvir , Hierophant , c . 
Quaestor candidatus , more probably titular . 
Corrector of Tuscany and Umbria . 
Consul elect but he died before the beginning of the year . 
des Empereurs , tom v . 
It is more than probable that Damasus would not have purchased his conversion at such a price . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
A separate view of the five great theatres of war I. Germany II . 
The East and , V. The Danube will impress a more distinct image of the military state of the empire under the reigns of Valentinian and Valens . 
They expressed , and they communicated to their countrymen , their strong sense of the national affront . 
The irascible minds of the chiefs were exasperated by the suspicion of contempt and the martial youth crowded to their standard . 
The standard was recovered but the Batavians had not redeemed the shame of their disgrace and flight in the eyes of their severe judge . 
It was the opinion of Valentinian , that his soldiers must learn to fear their commander , before they could cease to fear the enemy . 
The troops were solemnly assembled and the trembling Batavians were enclosed within the circle of the Imperial army . 
The Batavians were degraded from their rank , stripped of their arms , and condemned to be sold for slaves to the highest bidder . 
Another division , or rather army , of the enemy , after the cruel and wanton devastation of the adjacent country , reposed themselves on the shady banks of the Moselle . 
Some were bathing their huge limbs in the river others were combing their long and flaxen hair others again were swallowing large draughts of rich and delicious wine . 
On a sudden they heard the sound of the Roman trumpet they saw the enemy in their camp . 
Astonishment produced disorder disorder was followed by flight and dismay and the confused multitude of the bravest warriors was pierced by the swords and javelins of the legionaries and auxiliaries . 
The bloody and obstinate conflict lasted a whole summer's day , with equal valor , and with alternate success . 
The Romans at length prevailed , with the loss of about twelve hundred men . 
The triumph of the Romans was indeed sullied by their treatment of the captive king , whom they hung on a gibbet , without the knowledge of their indignant general . 
The domestic assassin was instigated and protected by the Romans and the violation of the laws of humanity and justice betrayed their secret apprehension of the weakness of the declining empire . 
The use of the dagger is seldom adopted in public councils , as long as they retain any confidence in the power of the sword . 
Valesius adds a long and good note on the master of the offices . 
The disgrace of the Batavians is suppressed by the contemporary soldier , from a regard for military honor , which could not affect a Greek rhetorician of the succeeding age . 
See D'Anville , Notice de l'Ancienne Gaule , p . 
who supposes Valentinian to have been present . 
Studio solicitante nostrorum , occubuit . 
Valentinian resolved to execute severe vengeance on the whole body of the nation . 
Count Sebastian , with the bands of Italy and Illyricum , was ordered to invade their country , most probably on the side of Rhaetia . 
The life of Valentinian was exposed to imminent danger by the intrepid curiosity with which he persisted to explore some secret and unguarded path . 
At the signal of the general assault , the Roman troops encompassed and ascended the mountain of Solicinium on three different sides . 
After this signal victory , Valentinian returned to his winter quarters at Treves where he indulged the public joy by the exhibition of splendid and triumphal games . 
M. ! Mannert is unable to fix the position of Solicinium . 
conjectures Schwetzingen , near Heidelberg . 
Martin , Sultz in Wirtemberg , near the sources of the Neckar St . 
who foolishly supposes , that the Romans were ignorant of the sources of the Danube . 
Immanis enim natio , jam inde ab incunabulis primis varietate casuum imminuta ita saepius adolescit , ut fuisse longis saeculis aestimetur intacta . 
ascribes the fecundity of the Alemanni to their easy adoption of strangers . 
Note This explanation , says Mr. Malthus , only removes the difficulty a little farther off . 
It makes the earth rest upon the tortoise , but does not tell us on what the tortoise rests . 
We may still ask what northern reservoir supplied this incessant stream of daring adventurers . 
It is not probable that , for two periods together , or even for one , the population within the confines of Germany ever doubled itself in twenty five years . 
At no one period could the country be called well peopled , though it was often redundant in population . 
Malthus on Population , i . 
G. ! ! ! The course of the Neckar was likewise strongly guarded . 
The hyperbolical eulogy of Symmachus asserts that the Neckar first became known to the Romans by the conquests and fortifications of Valentinian . 
Nunc primum victoriis tuis externus fluvius publicatur . 
Gaudeat servitute , captivus innotuit . 
The younger Victor mentions the mechanical genius of Valentinian , nova arma meditari fingere terra seu limo simulacra . 
That prudent emperor , who diligently practised the wise maxims of Diocletian , was studious to foment and excite the intestine divisions of the tribes of Germany . 
The most remarkable circumstance in the ancient manners of the Burgundians appears to have been the difference of their civil and ecclesiastical constitution . 
The appellation of Hendinos was given to the king or general , and the title of Sinistus to the high priest , of the nation . 
The person of the priest was sacred , and his dignity perpetual but the temporal government was held by a very precarious tenure . 
The arms and fortifications of the Gallic frontier checked the fury of their just resentment and their massacre of the captives served to imbitter the hereditary feud of the Burgundians and the Alemanni . 
Among the princes of the Alemanni , Macrianus , who , with a Roman name , had assumed the arts of a soldier and a statesman , deserved his hatred and esteem . 
All that remains of the Burgundian language is Gothic . 
Nothing in their customs indicates a different origin . 
M. Bellicosos et pubis immensae viribus affluentes et ideo metuendos finitimis universis . 
I am always apt to suspect historians and travellers of improving extraordinary facts into general laws . 
Salinarum finiumque causa Alemannis saepe jurgabant . 
Possibly they disputed the possession of the Sala , a river which produced salt , and which had been the object of ancient contention . 
, and Lipsius ad loc . 
within sixty years after the death of that hero . 
Germanorum genera quinque Vindili , quorum pars Burgundiones , c . 
and the Chronicles of Jerom and Cassiodorus , fix some dates , and add some circumstances . 
The land was covered by the fortifications of Valentinian but the sea coast of Gaul and Britain was exposed to the depredations of the Saxons . 
It should seem probable , however , that the most numerous auxiliaries of the Saxons were furnished by the nations who dwelt along the shores of the Baltic . 
confined their skill and courage within the limits of a spacious lake . 
The various troops of pirates and adventurers , who fought under the same standard , were insensibly united in a permanent society , at first of rapine , and afterwards of government . 
The keel of their large flat bottomed boats were framed of light timber , but the sides and upper works consisted only of wicker , with a covering of strong hides . 
The Saxons , surrounded and outnumbered , were forced to relinquish their spoil , and to yield a select band of their tall and robust youth to serve in the Imperial armies . 
Ptolemy fixes the remnant of the Cimbri . 
He fills the interval between the Saxons and the Cimbri with six obscure tribes , who were united , as early as the sixth century , under the national appellation of Danes . 
has marked the extensive limits of the Saxony of Charlemagne . 
was obtained by their land journeys in search of amber . 
Quin et Aremoricus piratam Saxona tractus Sperabat cui pelle salum sulcare Britannum Ludus et assuto glaucum mare findere lembo Sidon . 
The genius of Caesar imitated , for a particular service , these rude , but light vessels , which were likewise used by the natives of Britain . 
The British vessels would now astonish the genius of Caesar . 
more clearly expresses their real guilt virtute atque agilitate terribeles . 
still presumes to mention the sacred name of Socrates and philosophy . 
with less inconsistency , the human sacrifices of the Saxons . 
The present age is satisfied with the simple and rational opinion , that the islands of Great Britain and Ireland were gradually peopled from the adjacent continent of Gaul . 
The Roman Province was reduced to the state of civilized and peaceful servitude the rights of savage freedom were contracted to the narrow limits of Caledonia . 
The hand of nature had contributed to mark the ancient distinctions of the Scots and Picts . 
The former were the men of the hills , and the latter those of the plain . 
The western part of Caledonia irregularly rises into wild and barren hills , which scarcely repay the toil of the husbandman , and are most profitably used for the pasture of cattle . 
The inhabitants of a barren land were urged to seek a fresh supply of food in the waters . 
The deep lakes and bays which intersect their country , are plentifully supplied with fish and they gradually ventured to cast their nets in the waves of the ocean . 
The loose and obscure tradition has been preserved by the venerable Bede , who scattered some rays of light over the darkness of the eighth century . 
On this slight foundation , a huge superstructure of fable was gradually reared , by the bards and the monks two orders of men , who equally abused the privilege of fiction . 
Yet I am informed , that some champions of the Milesian colony may still be found among the original natives of Ireland . 
A people dissatisfied with their present condition , grasp at any visions of their past or future glory . 
Tacitus , or rather his father in law , Agricola , might remark the German or Spanish complexion of some British tribes . 
But it was their sober , deliberate opinion In universum tamen aestimanti Gallos cicinum solum occupasse credibile est . 
In the dark and doubtful paths of Caledonian antiquity , I have chosen for my guides two learned and ingenious Highlanders , whom their birth and education had peculiarly qualified for that office . 
See Critical Dissertations on the Origin and Antiquities , c . 
, of the Caledonians , by Dr . 
John Macpherson , London , in to . 
and Introduction to the History of Great Britain and Ireland , by James Macpherson , Esq . 
, London , in to . 
The Irish descent of the Scots has been revived in the last moments of its decay , and strenuously supported , by the Rev . 
were already settled in Caledonia and that the Roman authors do not afford any hints of their emigration from another country . 
That a younger branch of Caledonian princes , of the house of Fingal , acquired and possessed the monarchy of Ireland . 
After these concessions , the remaining difference between Mr. Whitaker and his adversaries is minute and obscure . 
from Ireland to Caledonia , is built on a conjectural supplement to the Erse poetry , and the feeble evidence of Richard of Cirencester , a monk of the fourteenth century . 
The lively spirit of the learned and ingenious antiquarian has tempted him to forget the nature of a question , which he so vehemently debates , and so absolutely decides . 
Note This controversy has not slumbered since the days of Gibbon . 
We have strenuous advocates of the Phoenician origin of the Irish , and each of the old theories , with several new ones , maintains its partisans . 
It would require several pages fairly to bring down the dispute to our own days , and perhaps we should be no nearer to any satisfactory theory than Gibbon was . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
Part V. Six years after the death of Constantine , the destructive inroads of the Scots and Picts required the presence of his youngest son , who reigned in the Western empire . 
A philosopher may deplore the eternal discords of the human race , but he will confess , that the desire of spoil is a more rational provocation than the vanity of conquest . 
Hyeme tumentes ac saevientes undas calcastis Oceani sub remis vestris . 
insperatam imperatoris faciem Britannus expavit . 
Julius Fermicus Maternus de Errore Profan . 
This curious passage has escaped the diligence of our British antiquaries . 
The Caledonians praised and coveted the gold , the steeds , the lights , c . 
Blair's Dissertation on Ossian , vol ii . 
and Mr. Macpherson's Introduction , p . 
when law , religion , and society must have softened their primitive manners . 
has restored their true name in the text of Jerom . 
gentem Britannicam humanis vesci carnibus et cum per silvas porcorum greges , et armentorum percudumque reperiant , pastorum nates et feminarum papillas solere abscindere et has solas ciborum delicias arbitrari . 
whose veracity I find no reason to question . 
, where he questions the propriety of Gibbon's translation of this passage . 
I confess that even to acquit them of this charge . 
I cannot agree to the new version , which , in my opinion , is directly contrary both to the meaning of the words , and the general sense of the passage . 
I must leave the hereditary pride of our northern neighbors at issue with the veracity of St . 
Severus , count of the domestics , was hastily despatched , and as suddenly recalled , by the court of Treves . 
He seized the favorable moment of navigation , and securely landed the numerous and veteran bands of the Heruli and Batavians , the Jovians and the Victors . 
The vagrant soldiers were recalled to their standard an edict of amnesty dispelled the public apprehensions and his cheerful example alleviated the rigor of martial discipline . 
In the important station of the Upper Danube , the conqueror of Britain checked and defeated the armies of the Alemanni , before he was chosen to suppress the revolt of Africa . 
the whole series of the British war . 
nec falso nomine Pictos Edomuit . 
Scotumque vago mucrone secutus , Fregit Hyperboreas remis audacibus undas . 
, c Madurunt Saxone fuso Orcades incaluit Pictorum sanguine Thule , Scotorum cumulos flevit glacialis Ierne . 
But it is not easy to appreciate the intrinsic value of flattery and metaphor . 
The prince who refuses to be the judge , instructs the people to consider him as the accomplice , of his ministers . 
The unhappy provincials implored the protection of Romanus but they soon found that their military governor was not less cruel and rapacious than the Barbarians . 
If the severity of Valentinian had been rightly directed , it would have fallen on the guilty head of Romanus . 
But the count , long exercised in the arts of corruption , had despatched a swift and trusty messenger to secure the venal friendship of Remigius , master of the offices . 
The wisdom of the Imperial council was deceived by artifice and their honest indignation was cooled by delay . 
A bloody sentence was pronounced , without hesitation , by the rash and headstrong cruelty of Valentinian . 
Ammianus frequently mentions their concilium annuum , legitimum , c . 
Leptis and Sabrata are long since ruined but the city of Oea , the native country of Apuleius , still flourishes under the provincial denomination of Tripoli . 
has discussed the chronological difficulties of the history of Count Romanus . 
His father Nabal was one of the richest and most powerful of the Moorish princes , who acknowledged the supremacy of Rome . 
But the imprudent and unhappy Africans soon discovered , that , in this rash insurrection , they had not sufficiently consulted their own strength , or the abilities of their leader . 
Theodosius imitated the example , and obtained the success , of his predecessor Metellus . 
A dark conspiracy was detected by the penetration of Theodosius and he satisfied , without much reluctance , the public indignation , which he had secretly excited . 
When Theodosius entered the extensive dominions of Igmazen , king of the Isaflenses , the haughty savage required , in words of defiance , his name , and the object of his expedition . 
seems to place the revolt of Firmus after the deaths of Valentinian and Valens . 
endeavors to pick his way . 
The patient and sure foot mule of the Alps may be trusted in the most slippery paths . 
The war was longer protracted than this sentence would lead us to suppose it was not till defeated more than once that Igmazen yielded Amm . 
is broken and corrupted and the narrative is perplexed by the want of chronological and geographical landmarks . 
The authority of Count Romanus had been suspended by the master general of the cavalry and he was committed to safe and honorable custody till the end of the war . 
His crimes were proved by the most authentic evidence and the public expected , with some impatience , the decree of severe justice . 
Beyond the utmost limits of the Moors , the vast and inhospitable desert of the South extends above a thousand miles to the banks of the Niger . 
These gloomy terrors would indeed have been dispelled by a more intimate acquaintance with the character of their African enemies . 
The inaction of the negroes does not seem to be the effect either of their virtue or of their pusillanimity . 
They indulge , like the rest of mankind , their passions and appetites and the adjacent tribes are engaged in frequent acts of hostility . 
has traced a curious picture of the people and the country which are more minutely described in the Afrique de Marmol , tom . 
This uninhabitable zone was gradually reduced by the improvements of ancient geography , from forty five to twenty four , or even sixteen degrees of latitude . 
See a learned and judicious note of Dr . 
Intra , si credere libet , vix jam homines et magis semiferi . 
Blemmyes , Satyri , c . 
one of that species might actually be shown alive at Alexandria , in the reign of Constantine . 
Yet some difficulty will still remain about the conversation which St . 
Anthony held with one of these pious savages , in the desert of Thebais . 
Anthony likewise met one of these monsters whose existence was seriously asserted by the emperor Claudius . 
and the judicious observations of Freret . 
The pygmies of India and Aethiopia were twenty seven inches high . 
Their houses were built of mud , feathers , and egg shells . 
The third and fourth volumes of the valuable Histoire des Voyages describe the present state of the Negroes . 
The nations of the sea coast have been polished by European commerce and those of the inland country have been improved by Moorish colonies . 
M. Histoire Philosophique et Politique , c . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
The city of Artogerassa was the only place of Armenia ! ! which presumed to resist the efforts of his arms . 
! ! ! The Persians were surprised and repulsed under the walls of Artogerassa , by a bold and well concerted sally of the besieged . 
The satraps , whom he was obliged to trust , embraced the first opportunity of regaining the affection of their countrymen , and of signalizing their immortal hatred to the Persian name . 
! ! ! ! Twelve legions established the authority of Sauromaces on the banks of the Cyrus . 
The Euphrates was protected by the valor of Arintheus . 
A powerful army , under the command of Count Trajan , and of Vadomair , king of the Alemanni , fixed their camp on the confines of Armenia . 
Yet these appearances of war insensibly subsided in a vain and tedious negotiation . 
The invasion of the Goths and Huns which soon afterwards shook the foundations of the Roman empire , exposed the provinces of Asia to the arms of Sapor . 
But the declining age , and perhaps the infirmities , of the monarch suggested new maxims of tranquillity and moderation . 
The remembrance of ancient injuries was lost in the enjoyment of peace . 
The kingdoms of Armenia and Iberia were permitted , by the mutual , though tacit consent of both empires , to resume their doubtful neutrality . 
have been consulted but those historians who confound distinct facts , repeat the same events , and introduce strange stories , must be used with diffidence and caution . 
Note The statement of Ammianus is more brief and succinct , but harmonizes with the more complicated history developed by M. St . 
Martin from the Armenian writers , and from Procopius , who wrote , as he states from Armenian authorities . 
M. According to M. St . 
His troops were defeated by Vasag , the high constable of the kingdom . 
But after four years' courageous defence of his kingdom , Arsaces was abandoned by his nobles , and obliged to accept the perfidious hospitality of Sapor . 
He was blinded and imprisoned in the Castle of Oblivion his brave general Vasag was flayed alive his skin stuffed and placed near the king in his lonely prison . 
in a paroxysm of excitement at his restoration to royal honors . 
Martin , Additions to Le Beau , iii . 
M. Perhaps Artagera , or Ardis under whose walls Caius , the grandson of Augustus , was wounded . 
This fortress was situate above Amida , near one of the sources of the Tigris . 
See D'Anville , Geographie Ancienue , tom . 
Martin agrees with Gibbon , that it was the same fortress with Ardis Note , p . 
M. ! ! Artaxata , Vagharschabad , or Edchmiadzin , Erovantaschad , and many other cities , in all of which there was a considerable Jewish population were taken and destroyed . 
M. ! ! ! Pharandsem , not Olympias , refusing the orders of her captive husband to surrender herself to Sapor , threw herself into Artogerassa St . 
She defended herself for fourteen months , till famine and disease had left few survivors out of , soldiers and women who had taken refuge in the fortress . 
She then threw open the gates with her own hand . 
proves , from chronology , that Olympias must have been the mother of Para . 
Note An error according to St . 
M. ! ! ! ! According to Themistius , quoted by St . 
Martin , he once advanced to the Tigris , iii . 
has described the events , without the dates , of the Persian war . 
affords some additional facts but it is extremely difficult to separate truth from fable . 
of the great Sapor and the guardian of his son , Sapor III . 
See the Universal History , vol . 
The authors of that unequal work have compiled the Sassanian dynasty with erudition and diligence but it is a preposterous arrangement to divide the Roman and Oriental accounts into two distinct histories . 
Note On the war of Sapor with the Bactrians , which diverted from Armenia , see St . 
, and Orosius , l . 
Ictumque tum foedus est , quo universus Oriens usque ad num tranquillissime fruitur . 
In the general picture of the affairs of the East under the reign of Valens , the adventures of Para form one of the most striking and singular objects . 
The noble youth , by the persuasion of his mother Olympias , had escaped through the Persian host that besieged Artogerassa , and implored the protection of the emperor of the East . 
By his timid councils , Para was alternately supported , and recalled , and restored , and betrayed . 
But they soon repented of their own rashness . 
They were confounded by the reproaches and threats of the Persian monarch . 
Para suppressed his indignation , dissembled his fears , and after secretly preparing his escape , mounted on horseback with three hundred of his faithful followers . 
Para must have yielded to superior force , if the accidental arrival of a friendly traveller had not revealed the danger and the means of escape . 
On the reconquest of Armenia by Para , or rather by Mouschegh , the Mamigonian see St . 
M. On planks floated by bladders . 
M. ! It is curious enough that the Armenian historian , Faustus of Byzandum , represents Para as a magician . 
His impious mother Pharandac had devoted him to the demons on his birth . 
M. See in Ammianus the adventures of Para . 
Note This note is a tissue of mistakes . 
Tiridates and Para are two totally different persons . 
Tiridates was the father of Gnel first husband of Pharandsem , the mother of Para . 
M. V. During a peaceful interval of thirty years , the Romans secured their frontiers , and the Goths extended their dominions . 
These domestic conquests , which increased the military power of Hermanric , enlarged his ambitious designs . 
He then marched against the Venedi unskilled in the use of arms , and formidable only by their numbers , which filled the wide extent of the plains of modern Poland . 
The victorious Goths , who were not inferior in numbers , prevailed in the contest , by the decisive advantages of exercise and discipline . 
But he reigned over a part of the globe incapable of perpetuating and adorning the glory of its heroes . 
borrowed from the Gothic histories of Ablavius , or Cassiodorus . 
investigates , with more industry than success , the nations subdued by the arms of Hermanric . 
He denies the existence of the Vasinobroncoe , on account of the immoderate length of their name . 
Yet the French envoy to Ratisbon , or Dresden , must have traversed the country of the Mediomatrici . 
exhibits the name of Aestri . 
But reason and the Ambrosian MS . 
observes , in general terms , Ermenrichi . 
nobilissimi Regis , et per multa variaque fortiter facta , vicinigentibus formidati , c . 
The Goths had contracted an hereditary attachment for the Imperial house of Constantine , of whose power and liberality they had received so many signal proofs . 
They respected the public peace and if a hostile band sometimes presumed to pass the Roman limit , their irregular conduct was candidly ascribed to the ungovernable spirit of the Barbarian youth . 
A chain of posts and fortifications , skilfully disposed by Valens , or the generals of Valens , resisted their march , prevented their retreat , and intercepted their subsistence . 
was grieved and exasperated by this national calamity . 
His ambassadors loudly complained , at the court of Valens , of the infraction of the ancient and solemn alliance , which had so long subsisted between the Romans and the Goths . 
The negotiation was interrupted and the manly exhortations of Valentinian encouraged his timid brother to vindicate the insulted majesty of the empire . 
docetur relationibus Ducum , gentem Gothorum , ea tempestate intactam ideoque saevissimam , conspirantem in unum , ad pervadenda parari collimitia Thraciarum . 
has curiously ascertained the real number of these auxiliaries . 
The of Ammianus , and the , of Zosimus , were only the first divisions of the Gothic army . 
denies that there is any authority for these numbers . 
The provincials who afterwards became familiar with the Barbarians , found that their strength was more apparent than real . 
They were tall of stature but their legs were clumsy , and their shoulders were narrow . 
Valens enim , ut consulto placuerat fratri , cujus regebatur arbitrio , arma concussit in Gothos ratione justa permotus . 
then proceeds to describe , not the country of the Goths , but the peaceful and obedient province of Thrace , which was not affected by the war . 
The third year of the war was more favorable to the Romans , and more pernicious to the Goths . 
The Danube , which separated the dominions of the two independent nations , was chosen for the scene of the conference . 
The emperor of the East , and the Judge of the Visigoths , accompanied by an equal number of armed followers , advanced in their respective barges to the middle of the stream . 
The Greek sophist must have considered as one and the same war , the whole series of Gothic history till the victories and peace of Theodosius . 
The orator Themistius was sent from the senate of Constantinople to congratulate the victorious emperor and his servile eloquence compares Valens on the Danube to Achilles in the Scamander . 
The active policy of Valentinian was continually employed in adding new fortifications to the security of the frontier but the abuse of this policy provoked the just resentment of the Barbarians . 
The Quadi were much declined from that formidable power , which , in the time of Marcus Antoninus , had spread terror to the gates of Rome . 
But they still possessed arms and courage their courage was animated by despair , and they obtained the usual reenforcement of the cavalry of their Sarmatian allies . 
They invaded Pannonia in the season of harvest unmercifully destroyed every object of plunder which they could not easily transport and either disregarded , or demolished , the empty fortifications . 
The princess Constantia , the daughter of the emperor Constantius , and the granddaughter of the great Constantine , very narrowly escaped . 
That royal maid , who had innocently supported the revolt of Procopius , was now the destined wife of the heir of the Western empire . 
She traversed the peaceful province with a splendid and unarmed train . 
Her person was saved from danger , and the republic from disgrace , by the active zeal of Messala , governor of the provinces . 
Even Sirmium might not have been secure , if the Quadi and Sarmatians had diligently advanced during the general consternation of the magistrates and people . 
Their delay allowed Probus , the Praetorian praefect , sufficient time to recover his own spirits , and to revive the courage of the citizens . 
Equitius could bring into the field no more than two legions but they contained the veteran strength of the Maesian and Pannonian bands . 
carefully mark the origin and progress of the Quadic and Sarmatian war . 
Chapter XXV Reigns Of Jovian And Valentinian , Division Of The Empire . 
When he arrived at Sirmium , he gave audience to the deputies of the Illyrian provinces who loudly congratulated their own felicity under the auspicious government of Probus , his Praetorian praefect . 
With tears and groans am I sent , replied Iphicles , by a reluctant people . 
The emperor paused but the impunity of his ministers established the pernicious maxim , that they might oppress his subjects , without injuring his service . 
A strict inquiry into their conduct would have relieved the public discontent . 
The severe condemnation of the murder of Gabinius , was the only measure which could restore the confidence of the Germans , and vindicate the honor of the Roman name . 
But the haughty monarch was incapable of the magnanimity which dares to acknowledge a fault . 
He forgot the provocation , remembered only the injury , and advanced into the country of the Quadi with an insatiate thirst of blood and revenge . 
The answer of the emperor left them but little to hope from his clemency or compassion . 
He reviled , in the most intemperate language , their baseness , their ingratitude , their insolence . 
Valentinian was about fifty four years of age and he wanted only one hundred days to accomplish the twelve years of his reign . 
who acknowledges the merit , has censured , with becoming asperity , the oppressive administration of Petronius Probus . 
represents his friend Iphicles , as a man of virtue and merit , who had made himself ridiculous and unhappy by adopting the extravagant dress and manners of the Cynics . 
Jerom , who exaggerates the misfortune of Valentinian , refuses him even this last consolation of revenge . 
There is much variety of circumstances among them and Ammianus is so eloquent , that he writes nonsense . 
The polygamy of Valentinian is seriously attested by an ecclesiastical historian . 
He was the eldest son of a monarch whose glorious reign had confirmed the free and honorable choice of his fellow soldiers . 
At the death of his father , the royal youth was in the seventeenth year of his age and his virtues already justified the favorable opinion of the army and the people . 
But Gratian resided , without apprehension , in the palace of Treves whilst , at the distance of many hundred miles , Valentinian suddenly expired in the camp of Bregetio . 
The impending dangers of a civil war were seasonably prevented by the wise and moderate conduct of the emperor Gratian . 
Yet I would preserve the natural circumstance of the bath instead of following Zosimus who represents Justina as an old woman , the widow of Magnentius . 
describes the form of this military election , and august investiture . 
Valentinian does not appear to have consulted , or even informed , the senate of Rome . 
that Gratian reignea in Italy , Africa , and Illyricum . 
I have endeavored to express his authority over his brother's dominions , as he used it , in an ambiguous style . 
Chapter XXVI Progress of The Huns . 
Part I. Manners Of The Pastoral Nations . 
Progress Of The Huns , From China To Europe . 
Defeat And Death Of Valens . 
Gratian Invests Theodosius With The Eastern Empire . 
Peace And Settlement Of The Goths . 
that it is not easy to distinguish his facts from his metaphors . 
Yet he positively affirms , that he saw the rotten carcass of a ship , ad Modon , in Peloponnesus . 
Epidaurus must have been overwhelmed , had not the prudent citizens placed St . 
Hilarion , an Egyptian monk , on the beach . 
He made the sign of the Cross the mountain wave stopped , bowed , and returned . 
Dicaearchus , the Peripatetic , composed a formal treatise , to prove this obvious truth which is not the most honorable to the human species . 
has marked the gradual progress of the name and nation . 
The Tatars , or Tartars , were a primitive tribe , the rivals , and at length the subjects , of the Moguls . 
In speaking of all , or any of the northern shepherds of Europe , or Asia , I indifferently use the appellations of Scythians or Tartars . 
according to M. Klaproth , are a tribe of the Tartar nation . 
The uniform stability of their manners is the natural consequence of the imperfection of their faculties . 
In every age , the Scythians , and Tartars , have been renowned for their invincible courage and rapid conquests . 
The thrones of Asia have been repeatedly overturned by the shepherds of the North and their arms have spread terror and devastation over the most fertile and warlike countries of Europe . 
To illustrate this observation , I shall now proceed to consider a nation of shepherds and of warriors , in the three important articles of , I. Their diet II . 
Their habitations and , III . 
Imperium Asiae ter quaesivere ipsi perpetuo ab alieno imperio , aut intacti aut invicti , mansere . 
Since the time of Justin , they have multiplied this account . 
has abridged the Tartar conquests . 
Oft o'er the trembling nations from afar , Has Scythia breathed the living cloud of war . 
M. The fourth book of Herodotus affords a curious though imperfect , portrait of the Scythians . 
represent the Moguls of the fourteenth century . 
M. The Uzbecks are the most altered from their primitive manners . 
By the profession of the Mahometan religion and . 
By the possession of the cities and harvests of the great Bucharia . 
I. The corn , or even the rice , which constitutes the ordinary and wholesome food of a civilized people , can be obtained only by the patient toil of the husbandman . 
In the military profession , and especially in the conduct of a numerous army , the exclusive use of animal food appears to be productive of the most solid advantages . 
The supply is multiplied and prolonged by the undistinguishing appetite , and patient abstinence , of the Tartars . 
They indifferently feed on the flesh of those animals that have been killed for the table , or have died of disease . 
Many are the resources of courage and poverty . 
But this extraordinary abstinence , which the Stoic would approve , and the hermit might envy , is commonly succeeded by the most voracious indulgence of appetite . 
Il est certain que les grands mangeurs de viande sont en general cruels et feroces plus que les autres hommes . 
Cette observation est de tous les lieux , et de tous les temps la barbarie Angloise est connue , c . 
Emile de Rousseau , tom . 
Whatever we may think of the general observation , we shall not easily allow the truth of his example . 
The good natured complaints of Plutarch , and the pathetic lamentations of Ovid , seduce our reason , by exciting our sensibility . 
The pastoral manners of the Scythians seem to unite the different advantages of simplicity and refinement . 
The individuals of the same tribe are constantly assembled , but they are assembled in a camp and the native spirit of these dauntless shepherds is animated by mutual support and emulation . 
The houses of the Tartars are no more than small tents , of an oval form , which afford a cold and dirty habitation , for the promiscuous youth of both sexes . 
The flocks and herds , after grazing all day in the adjacent pastures , retire , on the approach of night , within the protection of the camp . 
These manners are admirably adapted to diffuse , among the wandering tribes , the spirit of emigration and conquest . 
The connection between the people and their territory is of so frail a texture , that it may be broken by the slightest accident . 
The camp , and not the soil , is the native country of the genuine Tartar . 
These great emigrations , which have been sometimes executed with almost incredible diligence , were rendered more easy by the peculiar nature of the climate . 
a skilful and laborious interpreter of the Chinese language who has thus laid open new and important scenes in the history of mankind . 
A plain in the Chinese Tartary , only eighty leagues from the great wall , was found by the missionaries to be three thousand geometrical paces above the level of the sea . 
But this leisure , instead of being devoted to the soft enjoyments of love and harmony , is use fully spent in the violent and sanguinary exercise of the chase . 
The plains of Tartary are filled with a strong and serviceable breed of horses , which are easily trained for the purposes of war and hunting . 
The general hunting matches , the pride and delight of the Tartar princes , compose an instructive exercise for their numerous cavalry . 
Their leaders study , in this practical school , the most important lesson of the military art the prompt and accurate judgment of ground , of distance , and of time . 
represents the full glory and extent of the Mogul chase . 
The Jesuits Gerbillon and Verbiest followed the emperor Khamhi when he hunted in Tartary , Duhalde , Description de la Chine , tom . 
as a poet the pleasures which he had often enjoyed as a sportsman . 
The political society of the ancient Germans has the appearance of a voluntary alliance of independent warriors . 
acted as the independent chief of a large and separate family and the limits of their peculiar territories were gradually fixed by superior force , or mutual consent . 
But the constant operation of various and permanent causes contributed to unite the vagrant Hords into national communities , under the command of a supreme head . 
The most successful of the Tartar princes assumed the military command , to which he was entitled by the superiority , either of merit or of power . 
The immediate jurisdiction of the khan is confined within the limits of his own tribe and the exercise of his royal prerogative has been moderated by the ancient institution of a national council . 
See the second volume of the Genealogical History of the Tartars and the list of the Khans , at the end of the life of Geng's , or Zingis . 
D'Herbelot , Bibliotheque Orien tale , p . 
Such assemblies are frequently mentioned in the Persian history of Timur though they served only to countenance the resolutions of their master . 
Montesquieu labors to explain a difference , which has not existed , between the liberty of the Arabs , and the perpetual slavery of the Tartars . 
The memory of past events cannot long be preserved in the frequent and remote emigrations of illiterate Barbarians . 
The Persian monarchs had extended their western conquests to the banks of the Danube , and the limits of European Scythia . 
Abulghasi Khan , in the two first parts of his Genealogical History , relates the miserable tales and traditions of the Uzbek Tartars concerning the times which preceded the reign of Zingis . 
M In the thirteenth book of the Iliad , Jupiter turns away his eyes from the bloody fields of Troy , to the plains of Thrace and Scythia . 
He would not , by changing the prospect , behold a more peaceful or innocent scene . 
See the fourth book of Herodotus . 
They have been celebrated in an epic poem of sixty thousand rhymed couplets , by Ferdusi , the Homer of Persia . 
See the history of Nadir Shah , p . 
The public must lament that Mr. Jones has suspended the pursuit of Oriental learning . 
Note Ferdusi is yet imperfectly known to European readers . 
An abstract of the whole poem has been published by Goerres in German , under the title das Heldenbuch des Iran . 
In English , an abstract with poetical translations , by Mr. Atkinson , has appeared , under the auspices of the Oriental Fund . 
But to translate a poet a man must be a poet . 
The best account of the poem is in an article by Von Hammer in the Vienna Jahrbucher , or perhaps in a masterly article in Cochrane's Foreign Quarterly Review , No. , . 
A splendid and critical edition of the whole work has been published by a very learned English Orientalist , Captain Macan , at the expense of the king of Oude . 
states that he never saw a MS . 
containing more than , , including doubtful and spurious passages and episodes . 
M. Note The later studies of Sir W. Jones were more in unison with the wishes of the public , thus expressed by Gibbon . 
The original seat of the nation appears to have been in the Northwest of China , in the provinces of Chensi and Chansi . 
was a desert , and the Southern provinces were peopled with Indian savages . 
gave the empire its actual form and extent . 
The aera of the Chinese monarchy has been variously fixed from to years before Christ and the year has been chosen for the lawful epoch , by the authority of the present emperor . 
were observed between the years and before Christ . 
The historical period of China does not ascend above the Greek Olympiads . 
was the aera of the revival of learning . 
Ninety seven years before Christ , Sematsien published the first history of China . 
His labors were illustrated , and continued , by a series of one hundred and eighty historians . 
The substance of their works is still extant and the most considerable of them are now deposited in the king of France's library . 
China has been illustrated by the labors of the French of the missionaries at Pekin , and Messrs . 
Freret and De Guignes at Paris . 
The substance of the three preceding notes is extracted from the Chou king , with the preface and notes of M. de Guignes , Paris , . 
The Tong Kien Kang Mou , translated by P. de Mailla , under the name of Hist . 
Generale de la Chine , tom . 
the Memoires sur la Chine , Paris , , c . 
the Histoire des Huns , tom . 
and the Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
See the Histoire Generale des Voyages , tom . 
, and the Genealogical History , vol . 
Chapter XXVI Progress of The Huns . 
The Huns , who under the reign of Valens threatened the empire of Rome , had been formidable , in a much earlier period , to the empire of China . 
Their ancient , perhaps their original , seat was an extensive , though dry and barren , tract of country , immediately on the north side of the great wall . 
Their place is at present occupied by the forty nine Hords or Banners of the Mongous , a pastoral nation , which consists of about two hundred thousand families . 
On the West , near the head of the Irtish , in the valleys of Imaus , they found a more ample space , and more numerous enemies . 
On the side of the North , the ocean was assigned as the limit of the power of the Huns . 
Without enemies to resist their progress , or witnesses to contradict their vanity , they might securely achieve a real , or imaginary , conquest of the frozen regions of Siberia . 
The Northren Sea was fixed as the remote boundary of their empire . 
They spread themselves at once over the face of the country and their rapid impetuosity surprised , astonished , and disconcerted the grave and elaborate tactics of a Chinese army . 
The successors of Kaoti , whose lives were dedicated to the arts of peace , or the luxury of the palace , submitted to a more permanent disgrace . 
They too hastily confessed the insufficiency of arms and fortifications . 
But there still remained a more disgraceful article of tribute , which violated the sacred feelings of humanity and nature . 
has given the original history of the ancient Hiong nou , or Huns . 
seems to comprise a part of their conquests . 
Note The theory of De Guignes on the early history of the Huns is , in general , rejected by modern writers . 
De Guignes advanced no valid proof of the identity of the Hioung nou of the Chinese writers with the Huns , except the similarity of name . 
concur in considering the Huns as belonging to the Finnish stock , distinct from the Moguls the Mandscheus , and the Turks . 
The Hiong nou , according to Klaproth , were Turks . 
Martin does not consider it impossible that the appellation of Hioung nou may have belonged to the Huns . 
But all agree in considering the Madjar or Magyar of modern Hungary the descendants of the Huns . 
is nearly related to the Lapponian and Vogoul . 
The present state of the question is thus stated in the last edition of Malte Brun , and a new and ingenious hypothesis suggested to resolve all the difficulties of the question . 
Were the Huns Finns ? This obscure question has not been debated till very recently , and is yet very far from being decided . 
We are of opinion that it will be so hereafter in the same manner as that with regard to the Scythians . 
the Kuns of the Hungarians , the European Huns , and a race in close relationship with the Flemish stock . 
This theory is more fully and ably developed , p . 
Whoever has seen the emperor of Austria's Hungarian guard , will not readily admit their descent from the Huns described by Sidonius Appolinaris . 
a circumstantial description , with a correct map , of the country of the Mongous . 
The Igours , or Vigours , were divided into three branches hunters , shepherds , and husbandmen and the last class was despised by the two former . 
See Abulghazi , part ii . 
Note On the Ouigour or Igour characters , see the work of M. A. Remusat , Sur les Langues Tartares . 
He conceives the Ouigour alphabet of sixteen letters to have been formed from the Syriac , and introduced by the Nestorian Christians . 
M. Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions , tom . 
The comprehensive view of M. de Guignes has compared these distant events . 
The fame of Sovou , or So ou , his merit , and his singular adventurers , are still celebrated in China . 
See the Eloge de Moukden , p . 
, and notes , p . 
and Memoires sur la Chine , tom . 
See Isbrand Ives in Harris's Collection , vol . 
and Gmelin , in the Hist . 
Generale des Voyages , tom . 
They all remark the vulgar opinion that the holy sea grows angry and tempestuous if any one presumes to call it a lake . 
This grammatical nicety often excites a dispute between the absurd superstition of the mariners and the absurd obstinacy of travellers . 
It was built by Chi hoang ti of the Dynasty Thsin . 
It is from twenty to twenty five feet high . 
Ce monument , aussi gigantesque qu'impuissant , arreterait bien les incursions de quelques Nomades mais il n'a jamais empeche les invasions des Turcs , des Mongols , et des Mandchous . 
See the life of Lieoupang , or Kaoti , in the Hist , de la Chine , published at Paris , , c . 
of the Tong Kien Kang Mou , the celebrated abridgment of the great History of Semakouang and his continuators . 
supplies some curious circumstances of the manners of the Huns . 
But their pride was humbled , and their progress was checked , by the arms and policy of Vouti , the fifth emperor of the powerful dynasty of the Han . 
Instead of confining himself to the timid operations of a defensive war , his lieutenants penetrated many hundred miles into the country of the Huns . 
These losses , however , were compensated by splendid and decisive success . 
The Chinese generals improved the superiority which they derived from the temper of their arms , their chariots of war , and the service of their Tartar auxiliaries . 
One of the princes of the nation was urged , by fear and ambition , to retire towards the South with eight hords , which composed between forty and fifty thousand families . 
From the time of this fatal schism , the Huns of the North continued to languish about fifty years till they were oppressed on every side by their foreign and domestic enemies . 
The proud inscription of a column , erected on a lofty mountain , announced to posterity , that a Chinese army had marched seven hundred miles into the heart of their country . 
See the reign of the emperor Vouti , in the Kang Mou , tom . 
His various and inconsistent character seems to be impartially drawn . 
Without adopting the exaggerations of Marco Polo and Isaac Vossius , we may rationally allow for Pekin two millions of inhabitants . 
The cities of the South , which contain the manufactures of China , are still more populous . 
See the Kang Mou , tom . 
, and the subsequent events under the proper years . 
This memorable festival is celebrated in the Eloge de Moukden , and explained in a note by the P. Gaubil , p . 
has inserted a short account of the Sienpi . 
The aera of the Huns is placed , by the Chinese , years before Christ . 
The fate of the vanquished Huns was diversified by the various influence of character and situation . 
But the most warlike and powerful tribes of the Huns maintained , in their adverse fortune , the undaunted spirit of their ancestors . 
The white Huns , a name which they derived from the change of their complexions , soon abandoned the pastoral life of Scythia . 
Gorgo , which , under the appellation of Carizme , has since enjoyed a temporary splendor , was the residence of the king , who exercised a legal authority over an obedient people . 
The vicinity of the Huns to the provinces of Persia , involved them in frequent and bloody contests with the power of that monarchy . 
The second division of their countrymen , the Huns , who gradually advanced towards the North west , were exercised by the hardships of a colder climate , and a more laborious march . 
Their independent spirit soon rejected the hereditary succession of the Tanjous and while each horde was governed by its peculiar mursa , their tumultuary council directed the public measures of the whole nation . 
As late as the thirteenth century , their transient residence on the eastern banks of the Volga was attested by the name of Great Hungary . 
The march , and the return , of those wandering Tartars , whose united camp consists of fifty thousand tents or families , illustrate the distant emigrations of the ancient Huns . 
The various accidents , the downfall , and the flight of the Huns , are related in the Kang Mou , tom . 
, , , , c . 
The small numbers of each horde may be due to their losses and divisions . 
The Armenian authors often mention this people under the name of Hepthal . 
Martin considers that the name of Nepthalites is an error of a copyist . 
M. Mohammed , sultan of Carizme , reigned in Sogdiana when it was invaded by Zingis and his moguls . 
celebrate the populous cities which he ruined , and the fruitful country which he desolated . 
Their actual misery may be seen in the Genealogical History of the Tartars , p . 
has left a short abridgment of the Greek kings of Bactriana . 
The other ways , both of the land and sea , were possessed by the Seleucides and the Ptolemies . 
observed the remarkable name of Hungary , with the traces of a common language and origin , Hist . 
have described the Calmucks of the Volga in the beginning of the present century . 
This great transmigration of , Calmucks , or Torgouts , happened in the year . 
The emperor affects the smooth and specious language of the Son of Heaven , and the Father of his People . 
On the banks of the Tanais , the military power of the Huns and the Alani encountered each other with equal valor , but with unequal success . 
The Huns prevailed in the bloody contest the king of the Alani was slain and the remains of the vanquished nation were dispersed by the ordinary alternative of flight or submission . 
A colony of exiles found a secure refuge in the mountains of Caucasus , between the Euxine and the Caspian , where they still preserve their name and their independence . 
ascribes to their conquests a space of , lis . 
are equal to one degree of latitude and one English mile consequently exceeds three miles of China . 
But there are strong reasons to believe that the ancient li scarcely equalled one half of the modern . 
See the elaborate researches of M. D'Anville , a geographer who is not a stranger in any age or climate of the globe . 
of three or four Hunnic dynasties evidently proves that their martial spirit was not impaired by a long residence in China . 
Compare M. Klaproth's curious speculations on the Alani . 
The remains of the nation still exist in the Ossetae of Mount Caucasus . 
Klaproth , Tableaux Historiques de l'Asie , p . 
M. Compare Shafarik Slawische alterthumer , i . 
Utque hominibus quietis et placidis otium est voluptabile , ita illos pericula juvent et bella . 
Judicatur ibi beatus qui in proelio profuderit animam senescentes etiam et fortuitis mortibus mundo digressos , ut degeneres et ignavos , conviciis atrocibus insectantur . 
We must think highly of the conquerors of such men . 
To these real terrors they added the surprise and abhorrence which were excited by the shrill voice , the uncouth gestures , and the strange deformity of the Huns . 
to the animals who walk very awkwardly on two legs and to the misshapen figures , the Termini , which were often placed on the bridges of antiquity . 
The brothers of that unfortunate woman seized the favorable moment of revenge . 
The Ostrogoths submitted to their fate and the royal race of the Amali will hereafter be found among the subjects of the haughty Attila . 
The ordinary speed of the Huns was checked by the weight of baggage , and the encumbrance of captives but their military skill deceived , and almost destroyed , the army of Athanaric . 
Their noses were flattened by their nurses , their cheeks were gashed by an iron instrument , that the scars might look more fearful , and prevent the growth of the beard . 
Jornandes and Sidonius Apollinaris Obtundit teneras circumdata fascia nares , Ut galeis cedant . 
Yet he adds that their forms were robust and manly , their height of a middle size , but , from the habit of riding , disproportioned . 
Stant pectora vasta , Insignes humer , succincta sub ilibus alvus . 
Forma quidem pediti media est , procera sed extat Si cernas equites , sic longi saepe putantur Si sedeant . 
Prodigiosae formae , et pandi ut bipedes existimes bestias vel quales in commarginandis pontibus , effigiati stipites dolantur incompte . 
draws a strong caricature of a Calmuck face . 
quaedam deformis offa , non fecies habensque magis puncta quam lumina . 
describes with the rancor of a Goth , might be originally derived from a more pleasing fable of the Greeks . 
Note See , on the origin of the Russ , Schlozer , Nordische Geschichte , p . 
M. The text of Ammianus seems to be imperfect or corrupt but the nature of the ground explains , and almost defines , the Gothic rampart . 
Memoires de l'Academie , c . 
describe the subversion of the Gothic empire by the Huns . 
The most probable opinion as to the position of this land is that of M. Malte Brun . 
towards the Carpathian Mountains , on the side of the present Transylvania , and therefore the canton of Cacava , to the south of Hermanstadt , the capital of the principality . 
Caucaland it is evident , is the Gothic form of these different names . 
M. Chapter XXVI Progress of The Huns . 
But the attention of the emperor was most seriously engaged , by the important intelligence which he received from the civil and military officers who were intrusted with the defence of the Danube . 
These assurances were confirmed by the ambassadors of the Goths , who impatiently expected from the mouth of Valens an answer that must finally determine the fate of their unhappy countrymen . 
The Chronology of Ammianus is obscure and imperfect . 
Tillemont has labored to clear and settle the annals of Valens . 
The Isaurians , each winter , infested the roads of Asia Minor , as far as the neighborhood of Constantinople . 
Sozomen and Philostorgius say that the bishop Ulphilas was one of these ambassadors . 
The Imperial mandate was at length received for transporting over the Danube the whole body of the Gothic nation but the execution of this order was a task of labor and difficulty . 
The children of the Goths , those at least of a distinguished rank , were separated from the multitude . 
But the stipulation , the most offensive to the Goths , and the most important to the Romans , was shamefully eluded . 
The absolute refusal of Valens suspended their progress , and discovered the repentance , the suspicions , and the fears , of the Imperial council . 
The passage of the Danube is exposed by Ammianus , Zosimus , Eunapius in Excerpt . 
Ammianus declares that he means only , ispas rerum digerere summitates . 
But he often takes a false measure of their importance and his superfluous prolixity is disagreeably balanced by his unseasonable brevity . 
He admires the beauty and spontaneous plenty of Maesia , or Bulgaria . 
Quem sci scire velit , Libyci velit aequoris idem Discere quam multae Zephyro turbentur harenae . 
originally designed by the poet to express the impossibility of numbering the different sorts of vines . 
A very curious , but obscure , passage of Eunapius , appears to me to have been misunderstood by M. Mai , to whom we owe its discovery . 
The substance is as follows The Goths transported over the river their native deities , with their priests of both sexes but concerning their rites they maintained a deep and 'adamantine silence . 
To the Romans they pretended to be generally Christians , and placed certain persons to represent bishops in a conspicuous manner on their wagons . 
Thus , while they faithfully but secretly adhered to their own religion , the Romans were weak enough to suppose them perfect Christians . 
M Eunapius and Zosimus curiously specify these articles of Gothic wealth and luxury . 
An undisciplined and unsettled nation of Barbarians required the firmest temper , and the most dexterous management . 
The daily subsistence of near a million of extraordinary subjects could be supplied only by constant and skilful diligence , and might continually be interrupted by mistake or accident . 
They beheld around them the wealth and plenty of a fertile province , in the midst of which they suffered the intolerable hardships of artificial famine . 
The clamors of a multitude , untaught to disguise their sentiments , announced the first symptoms of resistance , and alarmed the timid and guilty minds of Lupicinus and Maximus . 
But the generals of Valens , while their attention was solely directed to the discontented Visigoths , imprudently disarmed the ships and the fortifications which constituted the defence of the Danube . 
The fatal oversight was observed , and improved , by Alatheus and Saphrax , who anxiously watched the favorable moment of escaping from the pursuit of the Huns . 
Decem libras the word silver must be understood . 
Jornandes betrays the passions and prejudices of a Goth . 
The servile Geeks , Eunapius and Zosimus , disguise the Roman oppression , and execrate the perfidy of the Barbarians . 
Ammianus , a patriot historian , slightly , and reluctantly , touches on the odious subject . 
Jerom , who wrote almost on the spot , is fair , though concise . 
Note A new passage from the history of Eunapius is nearer to the truth . 
'It appeared to our commanders a legitimate source of gain to be bribed by the Barbarians Edit . 
On that fatal spot , the flames of discord and mutual hatred burst forth into a dreadful conflagration . 
Lupicinus had invited the Gothic chiefs to a splendid entertainment and their martial train remained under arms at the entrance of the palace . 
A blow was imprudently given a sword was hastily drawn and the first blood that was spilt in this accidental quarrel , became the signal of a long and destructive war . 
The valor of the Goths was so ably directed by the genius of Fritigern , that they broke , by a close and vigorous attack , the ranks of the Roman legions . 
Lupicinus left his arms and standards , his tribunes and his bravest soldiers , on the field of battle and their useless courage served only to protect the ignominious flight of their leader . 
Such are the words of the Gothic historian , who celebrates , with rude eloquence , the glory of his countrymen . 
But the dominion of the Barbarians was exercised only for the purposes of rapine and destruction . 
Some time before the great emigration , a numerous body of Goths , under the command of Suerid and Colias , had been received into the protection and service of the empire . 
But the resistance of the garrison informed the Barbarians , that in the attack of regular fortifications , the efforts of unskillful courage are seldom effectual . 
Their general acknowledged his error , raised the siege , declared that he was at peace with stone walls , and revenged his disappointment on the adjacent country . 
With the assistance of such guides , nothing could remain impervious or inaccessible resistance was fatal flight was impracticable and the patient submission of helpless innocence seldom found mercy from the Barbarian conqueror . 
Vexillis de more sublatis , auditisque trisie sonantibus classicis . 
the large horns of the Uri , or wild bull such as have been more recently used by the Swiss Cantons of Uri and Underwald . 
Attendant le combat le dit cor fut corne par trois fois , tant que le vent du souffler pouvoit durer ce qui esbahit fort Monsieur de Bourgoigne car deja a Morat l'avoit ouy . 
Jornandes de Rebus Geticis , c . 
are undoubtedly transcribed from the larger histories of Priscus , Ablavius , or Cassiodorus . 
Cum populis suis longe ante suscepti . 
We are ignorant of the precise date and circumstances of their transmigration . 
An Imperial manufacture of shields , c . 
, was established at Hadrianople and the populace were headed by the Fabricenses , or workmen . 
Pacem sibi esse cum parietibus memorans . 
a revenue which paid the phalanx , and corrupted the orators of Greece . 
Godefroy's Commentary on the Theodosian Code , tom . 
D Anville , Geographie Ancienne , tom . 
As those unhappy workmen often ran away , Valens had enacted severe laws to drag them from their hiding places . 
The historian of the Gothic war loses time and space , by an unseasonable recapitulation of the ancient inroads of the Barbarians . 
In the midst of riotous intemperance , the watchful Fritigern observed the motions , and penetrated the designs , of the Romans . 
The evening was already far advanced and the two armies prepared themselves for the approaching combat , which was deferred only till the dawn of day . 
Such funeral rites , as the circumstances of time and place would admit , were piously discharged to some officers of distinguished rank but the indiscriminate vulgar was left unburied on the plain . 
expresses the nature of the soil . 
This circle of wagons , the Carrago , was the usual fortification of the Barbarians . 
The practice and the name were preserved by their descendants as late as the fifteenth century . 
The Charroy , which surrounded the Ost , is a word familiar to the readers of Froissard , or Comines . 
Indicant nunc usque albentes ossibus campi . 
The historian might have viewed these plains , either as a soldier , or as a traveller . 
But his modesty has suppressed the adventures of his own life subsequent to the Persian wars of Constantius and Julian . 
We are ignorant of the time when he quitted the service , and retired to Rome , where he appears to have composed his History of his Own Times . 
He obtained the formidable aid of the Taifalae , whose military renown was disgraced and polluted by the public infamy of their domestic manners . 
But the most powerful auxiliaries of the Goths were drawn from the camp of those enemies who had expelled them from their native seats . 
The loose subordination , and extensive possessions , of the Huns and the Alani , delayed the conquests , and distracted the councils , of that victorious people . 
Several of the hords were allured by the liberal promises of Fritigern and the rapid cavalry of Scythia added weight and energy to the steady and strenuous efforts of the Gothic infantry . 
which has given its name to these regions , over which they had ruled so long . 
The Taifalae passed with the Goths into the territory of the empire . 
A great number of them entered the Roman service , and were quartered in different provinces . 
They are mentioned in the Notitia Imperii . 
There was a considerable body in the country of the Pictavi , now Poithou . 
They long retained their manners and language , and caused the name of the Theofalgicus pagus to be given to the district they inhabited . 
Two places in the department of La Vendee , Tiffanges and La Tiffardiere , still preserve evident traces of this denomination . 
M. Hanc Taifalorum gentem turpem , et obscenae vitae flagitiis ita accipimus mersam ut apud eos nefandi concubitus foedere copulentur mares puberes , aetatis viriditatem in eorum pollutis usibus consumpturi . 
Porro , siqui jam adultus aprum exceperit solus , vel interemit ursum immanem , colluvione liberatur incesti . 
Among the Greeks , likewise , more especially among the Cretans , the holy bands of friendship were confirmed , and sullied , by unnatural love . 
enumerates the nations and marks a calamitous period of twenty years . 
Chapter XXVI Progress of The Huns . 
A soldier , of the lifeguards of Gratian , was of the nation of the Alemanni , and of the tribe of the Lentienses , who dwelt beyond the Lake of Constance . 
Some domestic business obliged him to request a leave of absence . 
The enterprise of some light detachments , who , in the month of February , passed the Rhine upon the ice , was the prelude of a more important war . 
The boldest hopes of rapine , perhaps of conquest , outweighed the considerations of timid prudence , or national faith . 
at twenty three Gallic leagues , or thirty four and a half Roman miles to the south of Strasburg . 
From its ruins the adjacent town of Colmar has arisen . 
Note It is rather Horburg , on the right bank of the River Ill , opposite to Colmar . 
From Schoepflin , Alsatia Illustrata . 
The ruin of Valens was precipitated by the deceitful arts of Fritigern , and the prudent admonitions of the emperor of the West . 
But the feeble sovereign of the East was actuated only by the fatal illusions of pride and jealousy . 
Moratus paucissimos dies , seditione popularium levium pulsus Ammian . 
supplies the dates and some circumstances . 
Note Compare fragment of Eunapius . 
Mai , , in Niebuhr , p . 
M Vivosque omnes circa Mutinam , Regiumque , et Parmam , Italica oppida , rura culturos exterminavit . 
Those cities and districts , about ten years after the colony of the Taifalae , appear in a very desolate state . 
See Muratori , Dissertazioni sopra le Antichita Italiane , tom . 
The latter expatiates on the desultory exploits of Sebastian , and despatches , in a few lines , the important battle of Hadrianople . 
His prejudice and ignorance undoubtedly render him a very questionable judge of merit . 
The Gothic cavalry had been detached to forage in the adjacent country and Fritigern still continued to practise his customary arts . 
The hasty and imprudent attack was made by Bacurius the Iberian , who commanded a body of archers and targeteers and as they advanced with rashness , they retreated with loss and disgrace . 
His faithful generals , Trajan and Victor , who perceived his danger , loudly exclaimed that all was lost , unless the person of the emperor could be saved . 
Their search could not indeed be successful , if there is any truth in the circumstances with which some historians have related the death of the emperor . 
almost alone describes the councils and actions which were terminated by the fatal battle of Hadrianople . 
who suppose a great army to be a mathematical point , without space or dimensions . 
Nec ulla annalibus , praeter Cannensem pugnam , ita ad internecionem res legitur gesta . 
is somewhat less bloody he slaughters only , horse , and , foot . 
But their united evidence , if weighed against Ammianus alone , is light and unsubstantial . 
The king himself fought and fell in the foremost ranks of the battle . 
His attendants presented him with the fleetest horses of the Imperial stable , that would soon have carried him beyond the pursuit of the enemy . 
They vainly pressed him to reserve his important life for the future service of the republic . 
He still declared that he was unworthy to survive so many of the bravest and most faithful of his subjects and the monarch was nobly buried under a mountain of the slain . 
Let none , therefore , presume to ascribe the victory of the Barbarians to the fear , the weakness , or the imprudence , of the Roman troops . 
The chiefs and the soldiers were animated by the virtue of their ancestors , whom they equalled in discipline and the arts of war . 
The indignation of the gods has been the only cause of the success of our enemies . 
, in Fabricius , Bibliot Graec . 
After the hasty and impolitic massacre of three hundred deserters , an act of justice extremely useful to the discipline of the Roman armies , the Goths indignantly raised the siege of Hadrianople . 
The tide of the Gothic inundation rolled from the walls of Hadrianople to the suburbs of Constantinople . 
Valens had gained , or rather purchased , the friendship of the Saracens , whose vexatious inroads were felt on the borders of Phoenicia , Palestine , and Egypt . 
Crinitus quidam , nudus omnia praeter pubem , subraunum et ugubre strepens . 
The Arabs often fought naked a custom which may be ascribed to their sultry climate , and ostentatious bravery . 
The description of this unknown savage is the lively portrait of Derar , a name so dreadful to the Christians of Syria . 
of the Saracens , vol . 
whom we are now reduced to cherish , misplaces the sally of the Arabs before the death of Valens . 
praises the fertility of Thrace , Macedonia , c . 
that forty thousand persons were massacred at Bourges by the just revenge of his soldiers , who spared neither age nor sex , c . 
with some apprehension of violating the dignity of history . 
ubi praeter coelum et terram , et crescentes vepres , et condensa sylvarum cuncta perierunt . 
Chapter XXVI Progress of The Huns . 
Part V. Whatever may have been the just measure of the calamities of Europe , there was reason to fear that the same calamities would soon extend to the peaceful countries of Asia . 
The urgent consideration of the public safety may undoubtedly authorize the violation of every positive law . 
How far that , or any other , consideration may operate to dissolve the natural obligations of humanity and justice , is a doctrine of which I still desire to remain ignorant . 
foolishly supposes a praeternatural growth of the young Goths , that he may introduce Cadmus's armed men , who sprang from the dragon's teeth , c . 
Such was the Greek eloquence of the times . 
mistakes the date , and labors to find the reason , why Julius did not consult the emperor Theodosius who had not yet ascended the throne of the East . 
Gratian was too late to assist , he was too weak to revenge , his unfortunate colleague and the valiant and modest youth felt himself unequal to the support of a sinking world . 
A formidable tempest of the Barbarians of Germany seemed ready to burst over the provinces of Gaul and the mind of Gratian was oppressed and distracted by the administration of the Western empire . 
In this important crisis , the government of the East , and the conduct of the Gothic war , required the undivided attention of a hero and a statesman . 
As each moment of delay diminished something of the power and resources of the future sovereign of the East , the situation of the times would not allow a tedious debate . 
to inflame the mind of the young Dauphin with Catholic zeal . 
Themistius , Zosimus , l . 
the Epitome of Victor , and the Chronicles of Prosper , Idatius , and Marcellinus , in the Thesaurus Temporum of Scaliger . 
Note Add a hostile fragment of Eunapius . 
, in Niebuhr , p M. Tillemont , Hist . 
He displayed a firm and temperate character in the ease with which he adapted himself to this new situation . 
The princes who peaceably inherit the sceptre of their fathers , claim and enjoy a legal right , the more secure as it is absolutely distinct from the merits of their personal characters . 
During the season of prosperity , he had been neglected but , in the public distress , his superior merit was universally felt and acknowledged . 
Italica , founded by Scipio Africanus for his wounded veterans of Italy . 
The ruins still appear , about a league above Seville , but on the opposite bank of the river . 
See the Hispania Illustrata of Nonius , a short though valuable treatise , c . 
in suspecting the royal pedigree , which remained a secret till the promotion of Theodosius . 
mentions this victory of Theodosius Junior Dux Maesiae , prima etiam tum lanugine juvenis , princeps postea perspectissimus . 
who adds some curious circumstances , strangely applies it to the time of the interregnum . 
prefers the rustic life of Theodosius to that of Cincinnatus the one was the effect of choice , the other of poverty . 
has fixed the situation of Caucha , or Coca , in the old province of Gallicia , where Zosimus and Idatius have placed the birth , or patrimony , of Theodosius . 
Conscious of these disadvantages , which will continue to involve a considerable portion of the decline and fall of the Roman empire , I shall proceed with doubtful and timorous steps . 
But the great Theodosius , an epithet which he honorably deserved on this momentous occasion , conducted himself as the firm and faithful guardian of the republic . 
Let us hear Ammianus himself . 
Scribant reliqua potiores aetate , doctrinisque florentes . 
Quos id , si libuerit , aggressuros , procudere linguas ad majores moneo stilos . 
Ammianus was the last subject of Rome who composed a profane history in the Latin language . 
The East , in the next century , produced some rhetorical historians , Zosimus , Olympiedorus , Malchus , Candidus c . 
See Vossius de Historicis Graecis , l . 
, de Historicis Latinis l . 
have detected an historical anecdote , in a strange medley of moral and mystic exhortations , addressed , by the preacher of Antioch , to a young widow . 
See Godefroy's Chronology of the Laws . 
As long as the superior genius of Fritigern preserved the union , and directed the motions of the Barbarians , their power was not inadequate to the conquest of a great empire . 
The death of that hero , the predecessor and master of the renowned Alaric , relieved an impatient multitude from the intolerable yoke of discipline and discretion . 
The Barbarians , who had been restrained by his authority , abandoned themselves to the dictates of their passions and their passions were seldom uniform or consistent . 
An army of conquerors was broken into many disorderly bands of savage robbers and their blind and irregular fury was not less pernicious to themselves , than to their enemies . 
A spirit of discord arose among the independent tribes and nations , which had been united only by the bands of a loose and voluntary alliance . 
The acquisition of Modar , a prince of the royal blood of the Amali , gave a bold and faithful champion to the cause of Rome . 
Athanaric , who had been a patient spectator of these extraordinary events , was at length driven , by the chance of arms , from the dark recesses of the woods of Caucaland . 
The Barbarian prince observed , with curious attention , the variety of objects which attracted his notice , and at last broke out into a sincere and passionate exclamation of wonder . 
the emperor of the Romans is a god upon earth and the presumptuous man , who dares to lift his hand against him , is guilty of his own blood . 
But the policy of Theodosius derived more solid benefit from the death , than he could have expected from the most faithful services , of his ally . 
The Chronicles of Idatius and Marcellinus allude , in general terms , to magna certamina , magna multaque praelia . 
The two epithets are not easily reconciled . 
styles him a Scythian , a name which the more recent Greeks seem to have appropriated to the Goths . 
The reader will not be displeased to see the original words of Jornandes , or the author whom he transcribed . 
Regiam urbem ingressus est , miransque , En , inquit , cerno quod saepe incredulus audiebam , famam videlicet tantae urbis . 
proceeds to mention his death and funeral . 
is compelled to approve the generosity of Theodosius , so honorable to himself , and so beneficial to the public . 
are stained with contemporary passion . 
Their destructive course was pointed towards the West but we must be satisfied with a very obscure and imperfect knowledge of their various adventures . 
The dexterity of the spies , whom he sent into the Gothic camp , allured the Barbarians into a fatal snare . 
The bravest of the Ostrogoths led the van the main body consisted of the remainder of their subjects and soldiers and the women and children securely followed in the rear . 
On this occasion , as well as on many others , it is a difficult task to reconcile the passions and prejudices of the writers of the age of Theodosius . 
The truth of history might perhaps be found in a just medium between these extreme and contradictory assertions . 
I am justified , by reason and example , in applying this Indian name to the the Barbarians , the single trees hollowed into the shape of a boat . 
Ausi Danubium quondam tranare Gruthungi In lintres fregere nemus ter mille ruebant Per fluvium plenae cuneis immanibus alni . 
He too frequently betrays his poverty of judgment by disgracing the most serious narratives with trifling and incredible circumstances . 
Odothaei Regis opima Retulit Ver . 
The original treaty which fixed the settlement of the Goths , ascertained their privileges , and stipulated their obligations , would illustrate the history of Theodosius and his successors . 
The series of their history has imperfectly preserved the spirit and substance of this single agreement . 
The ravages of war and tyranny had provided many large tracts of fertile but uncultivated land for the use of those Barbarians who might not disdain the practice of agriculture . 
The Barbarians would have deserved to feel the cruel and perfidious policy of the Imperial court , if they had suffered themselves to be dispersed through the provinces . 
A different mode of vindication or apology was opposed to the complaints of the people who loudly censured these shameful and dangerous concessions . 
The calamities of the war were painted in the most lively colors and the first symptoms of the return of order , of plenty , and security , were diligently exaggerated . 
mentions the Phrygian colony Ostrogothis colitur mistisque Gruthungis Phyrx ager and then proceeds to name the rivers of Lydia , the Pactolus , and Herreus . 
who applauds , with false or foolish joy , their bravery and discipline . 
who represents his nation as innocent , peaceable men , slow to anger , and patient of injuries . 
According to Livy , the Romans conquered the world in their own defence . 
The philosophic bishop of Cyrene was near enough to judge and he was sufficiently removed from the temptation of fear or flattery . 
composes an elaborate and rational apology , which is not , however , exempt from the puerilities of Greek rhetoric . 
Orpheus could only charm the wild beasts of Thrace but Theodosius enchanted the men and women , whose predecessors in the same country had torn Orpheus in pieces , c . 
Their rude and insolent behavior expressed their contempt of the citizens and provincials , whom they insulted with impunity . 
The public apprehensions were fortified by the strong suspicion , that these tumults were not the effect of accidental passion , but the result of deep and premeditated design . 
But the more numerous faction adhered to the fierce and faithless Priulf , who inflamed the passions , and asserted the independence , of his warlike followers . 
The emperor , who had been the reluctant witness of this extraordinary controversy , dissembled his fears and resentment , and soon dismissed the tumultuous assembly . 
Their companions flew to arms and the faithful champion of Rome would have been oppressed by superior numbers , if he had not been protected by the seasonable interposition of the Imperial guards . 
Constantinople was deprived half a day of the public allowance of bread , to expiate the murder of a Gothic soldier was the guilt of the people . 
The difference of circumstances and names must undoubtedly be applied to the same story . 
and still continued his faithful services to the eldest son of Theodosius . 
The president Montesquieu seems ignorant that the Goths , after the defeat of Valens , never abandoned the Roman territory . 
