Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
He had heard it for many years , and with every year he liked it less . 
No matter there would be an end to all this soon . 
He shuffled uneasily , but took no further notice of the call . 
Leaning with both his elbows on the balustrade of the verandah , he went on looking fixedly at the great river that flowed indifferent and hurried before his eyes . 
They would live in Europe , he and his daughter . 
They would be rich and respected . 
Nobody would think of her mixed blood in the presence of her great beauty and of his immense wealth . 
Witnessing her triumphs he would grow young again , he would forget the twenty five years of heart breaking struggle on this coast where he felt like a prisoner . 
All this was nearly within his reach . 
Let only Dain return ! And return soon he must in his own interest , for his own share . 
He was now more than a week late ! Perhaps he would return to night . 
Such were Almayer's thoughts as , standing on the verandah of his new but already decaying house that last failure of his life he looked on the broad river . 
One of those drifting trees grounded on the shelving shore , just by the house , and Almayer , neglecting his dream , watched it with languid interest . 
Almayer's interest in the fate of that tree increased rapidly . 
He leaned over to see if it would clear the low point below . 
As he lost sight of it altogether he began to wonder how far out to sea it would drift . 
It was an important epoch in his life , the beginning of a new existence for him . 
His father , a subordinate official employed in the Botanical Gardens of Buitenzorg , was no doubt delighted to place his son in such a firm . 
Almayer had left his home with a light heart and a lighter pocket , speaking English well , and strong in arithmetic ready to conquer the world , never doubting that he would . 
At that time Macassar was teeming with life and commerce . 
It was the point in the islands where tended all those bold spirits who , fitting out schooners on the Australian coast , invaded the Malay Archipelago in search of money and adventure . 
This girl , it was generally known , Lingard had adopted , was having her educated in some convent in Java , and spoke of her as my daughter . 
He had sworn a mighty oath to marry her to a white man before he went home and to leave her all his money . 
Into that river , whose entrances himself only knew , Lingard used to take his assorted cargo of Manchester goods , brass gongs , rifles and gunpowder . 
But to Almayer's ears it sounded like a quarrel of Titans a battle of the gods . 
Do all my quill driving for me . 
Months slipped by , and Lingard's friendship seemed to increase . 
He spoke of his past life , of escaped dangers , of big profits in his trade , of new combinations that were in the future to bring profits bigger still . 
Often he had mentioned his daughter , the girl found in the pirate prau , speaking of her with a strange assumption of fatherly tenderness . 
She must be a big girl now , he used to say . 
It's nigh unto four years since I have seen her ! Damme , Almayer , if I don't think we will run into Sourabaya this trip . 
And after such a declaration he always dived into his cabin muttering to himself , Something must be done must be done . 
It was the night before arriving in Sourabaya when one of those attempts at confidential communication succeeded . 
After clearing his throat he spoke . 
He spoke to some purpose . 
He wanted Almayer to marry his adopted daughter . 
And don't you kick because you're white ! he shouted , suddenly , not giving the surprised young man the time to say a word . 
None of that with me ! Nobody will see the colour of your wife's skin . 
The dollars are too thick for that , I tell you ! And mind you , they will be thicker yet before I die . 
There will be millions , Kaspar ! Millions I say ! And all for her and for you , if you do what you are told . 
Startled by the unexpected proposal , Almayer hesitated , and remained silent for a minute . 
He was always lucky , and money is powerful ! Go through it . 
Why not ? He had a vague idea of shutting her up somewhere , anywhere , out of his gorgeous future . 
Easy enough to dispose of a Malay woman , a slave , after all , to his Eastern mind , convent or no convent , ceremony or no ceremony . 
He lifted his head and confronted the anxious yet irate seaman . 
I of course anything you wish , Captain Lingard . 
Call me father , my boy . 
She does , said the mollified old adventurer . 
Damme , though , if I didn't think you were going to refuse . 
Mind you , Kaspar , I always get my way , so it would have been no use . 
But you are no fool . 
He remembered well that time the look , the accent , the words , the effect they produced on him , his very surroundings . 
He remembered it all , and he remembered his feelings of mad exultation at the thought of that fortune thrown into his hands . 
He was no fool then , and he was no fool now . 
Circumstances had been against him the fortune was gone , but hope remained . 
He had a hazy recollection of having been called some time during the evening by his wife . 
But a man busy contemplating the wreckage of his past in the dawn of new hopes cannot be hungry whenever his rice is ready . 
Time he went home , though it was getting late . 
He stepped cautiously on the loose planks towards the ladder . 
A lizard , disturbed by the noise , emitted a plaintive note and scurried through the long grass growing on the bank . 
As he turned towards the house where he lived my old house he called it his ear detected the splash of paddles away in the darkness of the river . 
He stood still in the path , attentive and surprised at anybody being on the river at this late hour during such a heavy freshet . 
Quite close , too , but it was too dark to distinguish anything under the overhanging bushes . 
Arabs , no doubt , muttered Almayer to himself , peering into the solid blackness . 
What are they up to now ? Some of Abdulla's business curse him ! The boat was very close now . 
Oh , ya ! Man ! hailed Almayer . 
The sound of voices ceased , but the paddles worked as furiously as before . 
Then the bush in front of Almayer shook , and the sharp sound of the paddles falling into the canoe rang in the quiet night . 
They were holding on to the bush now but Almayer could hardly make out an indistinct dark shape of a man's head and shoulders above the bank . 
You Abdulla ? said Almayer , doubtfully . 
A grave voice answered Tuan Almayer is speaking to a friend . 
There is no Arab here . 
Almayer's heart gave a great leap . 
At last ! at last ! I have been waiting for you every day and every night . 
I had nearly given you up . 
Nothing could have stopped me from coming back here , said the other , almost violently . 
Not even death , he whispered to himself . 
This is a friend's talk , and is very good , said Almayer , heartily . 
But you are too far here . 
Drop down to the jetty and let your men cook their rice in my campong while we talk in the house . 
There was no answer to that invitation . 
What is it ? asked Almayer , uneasily . 
But where are all your men ? There are only two with you . 
Listen , Tuan Almayer , said Dain . 
To morrow's sun shall see me in your house , and then we will talk . 
Now I must go to the Rajah . 
To the Rajah ! Why ? What do you want with Lakamba ? Tuan , to morrow we talk like friends . 
I must see Lakamba to night . 
Dain , you are not going to abandon me now , when all is ready ? asked Almayer , in a pleading voice . 
Have I not returned ? But I must see Lakamba first for your good and mine . 
The shadowy head disappeared abruptly . 
Almayer watched the canoe till it passed out of the line of light . 
Shortly after the murmur of many voices reached him across the water . 
He could see the torches being snatched out of the burning pile , and rendering visible for a moment the gate in the stockade round which they crowded . 
Then they went in apparently . 
The torches disappeared , and the scattered fire sent out only a dim and fitful glare . 
Almayer stepped homewards with long strides and mind uneasy . 
Surely Dain was not thinking of playing him false . 
Dain and Lakamba were both too much interested in the success of his scheme . 
Trusting to Malays was poor work but then even Malays have some sense and understand their own interest . 
All would be well must be well . 
At this point in his meditation he found himself at the foot of the steps leading to the verandah of his home . 
From the low point of land where he stood he could see both branches of the river . 
Further away , where the island ended in a low cliff , rose a dark mass of buildings towering above the Malay structures . 
He mounted the steps of his house slowly . 
In the middle of the verandah there was a round table . 
On it a paraffin lamp without a globe shed a hard glare on the three inner sides . 
The fourth side was open , and faced the river . 
Between the rough supports of the high pitched roof hung torn rattan screens . 
There was no ceiling , and the harsh brilliance of the lamp was toned above into a soft half light that lost itself in the obscurity amongst the rafters . 
The front wall was cut in two by the doorway of a central passage closed by a red curtain . 
The women's room opened into that passage , which led to the back courtyard and to the cooking shed . 
In one of the side walls there was a doorway . 
Half obliterated words Office Lingard and Co . 
were still legible on the dusty door , which looked as if it had not been opened for a very long time . 
A heap of common mats lay in one corner , with an old hammock slung diagonally above . 
A numerous and representative assembly of moths were holding high revels round the lamp to the spirited music of swarming mosquitoes . 
Under the palm leaf thatch lizards raced on the beams calling softly . 
The floor was uneven , with many withered plants and dried earth scattered about . 
A general air of squalid neglect pervaded the place . 
Great red stains on the floor and walls testified to frequent and indiscriminate betel nut chewing . 
The light breeze from the river swayed gently the tattered blinds , sending from the woods opposite a faint and sickly perfume as of decaying flowers . 
Under Almayer's heavy tread the boards of the verandah creaked loudly . 
The sleeper in the corner moved uneasily , muttering indistinct words . 
There was a slight rustle behind the curtained doorway , and a soft voice asked in Malay , Is it you , father ? Yes , Nina . 
Is everybody asleep in this house ? Almayer spoke jovially and dropped with a contented sigh into the armchair nearest to the table . 
After carefully placing before her master a cracked glass tumbler and a tin spoon she went away noiselessly . 
Nina stood by the table , one hand lightly resting on its edge , the other hanging listlessly by her side . 
Her face turned towards the outer darkness , through which her dreamy eyes seemed to see some entrancing picture , wore a look of impatient expectancy . 
Her firm mouth , with the lips slightly parted and disclosing a gleam of white teeth , put a vague suggestion of ferocity into the impatient expression of her features . 
Almayer attacked his rice greedily , but after a few mouthfuls he paused , spoon in hand , and looked at his daughter curiously . 
Did you hear a boat pass about half an hour ago Nina ? he asked . 
The girl gave him a quick glance , and moving away from the light stood with her back to the table . 
No , she said , slowly . 
At last ! Dain himself and he went on to Lakamba . 
I know it , for he told me so . 
I spoke to him , but he would not come here to night . 
Will come to morrow , he said . 
He swallowed another spoonful , then said I am almost happy to night , Nina . 
I can see the end of a long road , and it leads us away from this miserable swamp . 
It is bad to have to trust a Malay , he said , but I must own that this Dain is a perfect gentleman a perfect gentleman , he repeated . 
Did you ask him to come here , father ? inquired Nina , not looking at him . 
We shall start on the day after to morrow , said Almayer , joyously . 
We must not lose any time . 
I am glad , she said , very low . 
Of course , said Almayer , vivaciously , you cannot imagine what is before you . 
I myself have not been to Europe , but I have heard my mother talk so often that I seem to know all about it . 
We shall live a a glorious life . 
Again he stood silent by his daughter's side looking at that enchanting vision . 
After a while he shook his clenched hand towards the sleeping settlement . 
Well ! No thunder will keep me awake to night , I know ! Good night , little girl , he whispered , tenderly kissing her cheek . 
You do not seem to be very happy to night , but to morrow you will show a brighter face . 
The faint breeze had died out , but the distant rumble of thunder and pale flashes of lightning gave warning of the approaching storm . 
With a sigh the girl turned towards the table . 
Almayer was in his hammock now , already half asleep . 
Take the lamp , Nina , he muttered , drowsily . 
This place is full of mosquitoes . 
Go to sleep , daughter . 
But Nina put the lamp out and turned back again towards the balustrade of the verandah , standing with her arm round the wooden support and looking eagerly towards the Pantai reach . 
It came nearer and nearer , with loud thunder claps and long flashes of vivid lightning , followed by short periods of appalling blackness . 
The light night breeze fanned the brig gently to the southward , and the great blaze of light got smaller and smaller till it twinkled only on the horizon like a setting star . 
It set the heavy canopy of smoke reflected the glare of hidden flames for a short time and then disappeared also . 
She realised that with this vanishing gleam her old life departed too . 
Thenceforth there was slavery in the far countries , amongst strangers , in unknown and perhaps terrible surroundings . 
But her destiny in the rough hands of the old sea dog , acting under unreasoning impulses of the heart , took a strange and to her a terrible shape . 
She bore it all the restraint and the teaching and the new faith with calm submission , concealing her hate and contempt for all that new life . 
She learned the language very easily , yet understood but little of the new faith the good sisters taught her , assimilating quickly only the superstitious elements of the religion . 
Was he not now her master ? And during those long four years she nourished a hope of finding favour in his eyes and ultimately becoming his wife , counsellor , and guide . 
Those dreams of the future were dispelled by the Rajah Laut's fiat , which made Almayer's fortune , as that young man fondly hoped . 
For Almayer was uneasy , a little disgusted , and greatly inclined to run away . 
The old seaman himself was perfectly happy . 
Now he had done his duty by the girl . 
You know I made her an orphan , he often concluded solemnly , when talking about his own affairs to a scratch audience of shore loafers as it was his habit to do . 
And the approbative shouts of his half intoxicated auditors filled his simple soul with delight and pride . 
I carry everything right through , was another of his sayings , and in pursuance of that principle he pushed the building of house and godowns on the Pantai River with feverish haste . 
But the world had to be conquered first , and its conquest was not so easy as he thought . 
The Arabs had found out the river , had established a trading post in Sambir , and where they traded they would be masters and suffer no rival . 
Lingard returned unsuccessful from his first expedition , and departed again spending all the profits of the legitimate trade on his mysterious journeys . 
Almayer struggled with the difficulties of his position , friendless and unaided , save for the protection given to him for Lingard's sake by the old Rajah , the predecessor of Lakamba . 
It was currently believed at that time in the settlement that Lakamba's visits to Almayer's house were not limited to those official interviews . 
Almayer went on struggling desperately , but with a feebleness of purpose depriving him of all chance of success against men so unscrupulous and resolute as his rivals the Arabs . 
The trade fell away from the large godowns , and the godowns themselves rotted piecemeal . 
The old man's banker , Hudig of Macassar , failed , and with this went the whole available capital . 
The profits of past years had been swallowed up in Lingard's exploring craze . 
Lingard was in the interior perhaps dead at all events giving no sign of life . 
His wife had soon commenced to treat him with a savage contempt expressed by sulky silence , only occasionally varied by a flood of savage invective . 
He felt she hated him , and saw her jealous eyes watching himself and the child with almost an expression of hate . 
She was jealous of the little girl's evident preference for the father , and Almayer felt he was not safe with that woman in the house . 
But he was successful at last ! Untold riches were in his grasp he wanted more money only a little more torealise a dream of fabulous fortune . 
And Hudig had failed ! Almayer scraped all he could together , but the old man wanted more . 
If Almayer could not get it he would go to Singapore to Europe even , but before all to Singapore and he would take the little Nina with him . 
The child must be brought up decently . 
He had good friends in Singapore who would take care of her and have her taught properly . 
She will poison me , thought the poor wretch , well aware of that easy and final manner of solving the social , political , or family problems in Malay life . 
To his great surprise she took the news very quietly , giving only him and Lingard a furtive glance , and saying not a word . 
This , however , did not prevent her the next day from jumping into the river and swimming after the boat in which Lingard was carrying away the nurse with the screaming child . 
Almayer had to give chase with his whale boat and drag her in by the hair in the midst of cries and curses enough to make heaven fall . 
Yet after two days spent in wailing , she returned to her former mode of life , chewing betel nut , and sitting all day amongst her women in stupefied idleness . 
She aged very rapidly after that , and only roused herself from her apathy to acknowledge by a scathing remark or an insulting exclamation the accidental presence of her husband . 
He had built for her a riverside hut in the compound where she dwelt in perfect seclusion . 
Lakamba's visits had ceased when , by a convenient decree of Providence and the help of a little scientific manipulation , the old ruler of Sambir departed this life . 
Lakamba reigned in his stead now , having been well served by his Arab friends with the Dutch authorities . 
Syed Abdulla was the great man and trader of the Pantai . 
Almayer lay ruined and helpless under the close meshed net of their intrigues , owing his life only to his supposed knowledge of Lingard's valuable secret . 
He was coming back soon . 
There would be no difficulties , he wrote people would rush in with their money . 
Evidently they did not , for there was only one letter more from him saying he was ill , had found no relation living , but little else besides . 
Then came a complete silence . 
Europe had swallowed up the Rajah Laut apparently , and Almayer looked vainly westward for a ray of light out of the gloom of his shattered hopes . 
Almayer lived now alone , having even ceased to visit his debtors who would not pay , sure of Lakamba's protection . 
The faithful Sumatrese Ali cooked his rice and made his coffee , for he dared not trust any one else , and least of all his wife . 
Now the up country canoes glided past the little rotten wharf of Lingard and Co . 
, to paddle up the Pantai branch , and cluster round the new jetty belonging to Abdulla . 
Not that they loved Abdulla , but they dared not trade with the man whose star had set . 
He heard from her oftener since Abdulla bought a steamer , which ran now between Singapore and the Pantai settlement every three months or so . 
Almayer felt himself nearer his daughter . 
He longed to see her , and planned a voyage to Singapore , but put off his departure from year to year , always expecting some favourable turn of fortune . 
He did not want to meet her with empty hands and with no words of hope on his lips . 
He could not take her back into that savage life to which he was condemned himself . 
He was also a little afraid of her . 
What would she think of him ? He reckoned the years . 
A civilised woman , young and hopeful while he felt old and hopeless , and very much like those savages round him . 
He asked himself what was going to be her future . 
He could not answer that question yet , and he dared not face her . 
And yet he longed after her . 
His hesitation was put an end to by Nina's unexpected appearance in Sambir . 
She arrived in the steamer under the captain's care . 
Almayer beheld her with surprise not unmixed with wonder . 
He also feared an outbreak of temper on the part of that pest of a woman he had hitherto managed to keep tolerably quiet , thereby saving the remnants of his dilapidated furniture . 
As soon as Captain Ford had his glass before him and his cheroot lighted , Almayer asked for the explanation of his daughter's unexpected arrival . 
Ford said little beyond generalising in vague but violent terms upon the foolishness of women in general , and of Mrs. Vinck in particular . 
You know , Kaspar , said he , in conclusion , to the excited Almayer , it is deucedly awkward to have a half caste girl in the house . 
There's such a lot of fools about . 
There was that young fellow from the bank who used to ride to the Vinck bungalow early and late . 
That old woman thought it was for that Emma of hers . 
When she found out what he wanted exactly , there was a row , I can tell you . 
She would not have Nina not an hour longer in the house . 
Fact is , I heard of this affair and took the girl to my wife . 
My wife is a pretty good woman as women go and upon my word we would have kept the girl for you , only she would not stay . 
Now , then ! Don't flare up , Kaspar . 
What can you do ? It is better so . 
Let her stay with you . 
She was never happy over there . 
Those two Vinck girls are no better than dressed up monkeys . 
You can't make her white . 
It's no use you swearing at me . 
She is a good girl for all that , but she would not tell my wife anything . 
If you want to know , ask her yourself but if I was you I would leave her alone . 
You are welcome to her passage money , old fellow , if you are short now . 
And the skipper , throwing away his cigar , walked off to wake them up on board , as he expressed it . 
Almayer vainly expected to hear of the cause of his daughter's return from his daughter's lips . 
Not that day , not on any other day did she ever allude to her Singapore life . 
He got used even to that , and on those days kept quiet , although greatly alarmed by his wife's influence upon the girl . 
Otherwise Nina adapted herself wonderfully to the circumstances of a half savage and miserable life . 
built originally by Lingard for the young couple . 
The Malays eagerly discussed her arrival . 
There were at the beginning crowded levees of Malay women with their children , seeking eagerly after Ubat for all the ills of the flesh from the young Mem Putih . 
Even Lakamba came out of his stockade in a great pomp of war canoes and red umbrellas , and landed on the rotten little jetty of Lingard and Co . 
She was in one of her bad days , and remained in her mother's hut watching with her the ceremonious proceedings on the verandah . 
Under these improving circumstances Almayer brightened up a little . 
All was not lost perhaps . 
Those Arabs and Malays saw at last that he was a man of some ability , he thought . 
And he began , after his manner , to plan great things , to dream of great fortunes for himself and Nina . 
Especially for Nina ! Under these vivifying impulses he asked Captain Ford to write to his friends in England making inquiries after Lingard . 
He studied the crabbed handwriting of its pages and often grew meditative over it . 
Other things also woke him up from his apathy . 
The stir made in the whole of the island by the establishment of the British Borneo Company affected even the sluggish flow of the Pantai life . 
Great changes were expected annexation was talked of the Arabs grew civil . 
Almayer began building his new house for the use of the future engineers , agents , or settlers of the new Company . 
He spent every available guilder on it with a confiding heart . 
And his daughter seemed to accept that savage intrusion into their daily existence with wonderful equanimity . 
He did not like it , but dared say nothing . 
The claim to that part of the East Coast was abandoned , leaving the Pantai river under the nominal power of Holland . 
In Sambir there was joy and excitement . 
The smoke of the firing rose in white clouds on the green background of the forests , and he could not help comparing his own fleeting hopes to the rapidly disappearing vapour . 
They drank his health , wished him many big diamonds and a mountain of gold , expressed even an envy of the high destinies awaiting him yet . 
Encouraged by so much friendliness , the grey headed and foolish dreamer invited his guests to visit his new house . 
They went there through the long grass in a straggling procession while their boats were got ready for the return down the river in the cool of the evening . 
There are thirty miles of river from Sambir to the gem like islands of the estuary where the frigate was awaiting the return of the boats . 
For many weeks after this visit life in Sambir resumed its even and uneventful flow . 
Each day's sun shooting its morning rays above the tree tops lit up the usual scene of daily activity . 
Jim Eng , strolling before his house , greeted her with a friendly nod before climbing up indoors to seek his beloved opium pipe . 
Well founded rumour said also that the domestic squabbles of that industrious cultivator ended generally in a combined assault of all his wives upon the Siamese slave . 
The girl herself never complained perhaps from dictates of prudence , but more likely through the strange , resigned apathy of half savage womankind . 
For Mem Putih she had always a smile , but the presence of Mrs. Almayer , the very sound of her shrill voice , was the signal for a hurried departure . 
To this girl Nina often spoke the other inhabitants of Sambir seldom or never heard the sound of her voice . 
They got used to the silent figure moving in their midst calm and white robed , a being from another world and incomprehensible to them . 
, but through the agency of that potentate's prime minister , harbour master , financial adviser , and general factotum . 
That gentleman of Sulu origin was certainly endowed with statesmanlike qualities , although he was totally devoid of personal charms . 
In truth he was perfectly repulsive , possessing only one eye and a pockmarked face , with nose and lips horribly disfigured by the small pox . 
This unengaging individual often strolled into Almayer's garden in unofficial costume , composed of a piece of pink calico round his waist . 
What the subject of their discourses was might have been guessed from the subsequent domestic scenes by Almayer's hearthstone . 
Of late Almayer had taken to excursions up the river . 
In a small canoe with two paddlers and the faithful Ali for a steersman he would disappear for a few days at a time . 
All his movements were no doubt closely watched by Lakamba and Abdulla , for the man once in the confidence of Rajah Laut was supposed to be in possession of valuable secrets . 
The coast population of Borneo believes implicitly in diamonds of fabulous value , in gold mines of enormous richness in the interior . 
And so the wildest exaggerations are built up and added to on the slight basis of that fact . 
Almayer in his quality of white man as Lingard before him had somewhat better relations with the up river tribes . 
Yet even his excursions were not without danger , and his returns were eagerly looked for by the impatient Lakamba . 
But every time the Rajah was disappointed . 
Vain were the conferences by the rice pot of his factotum Babalatchi with the white man's wife . 
Why don't you go to the Rajah ? she screamed . 
Why do you go back to those Dyaks in the great forest ? They should be killed . 
You cannot kill them , you cannot but our Rajah's men are brave ! You tell the Rajah where the old white man's treasure is . 
Our Rajah is good ! He is our very grandfather , Datu Besar ! He will kill those wretched Dyaks , and you shall have half the treasure . 
It ended generally by Almayer rising slowly , his long pipe in hand , his face set into a look of inward pain , and walking away in silence . 
She followed to the head of the steps , and sent the shafts of indiscriminate abuse after the retreating form . 
And each of those scenes was concluded by a piercing shriek , reaching him far away . 
All these scenes Nina witnessed unmoved . 
She might have been deaf , dumb , without any feeling as far as any expression of opinion went . 
At that point she usually dropped the thread of her narrative , and pulling out the little brass cross , always suspended round her neck , she contemplated it with superstitious awe . 
Strangest of all , this abyss did not frighten her when she was under the influence of the witch like being she called her mother . 
She seemed to have forgotten in civilised surroundings her life before the time when Lingard had , so to speak , kidnapped her from Brow . 
Since then she had had Christian teaching , social education , and a good glimpse of civilised life . 
Unfortunately her teachers did not understand her nature , and the education ended in a scene of humiliation , in an outburst of contempt from white people for her mixed blood . 
Not even the thought of the money so painfully scraped together by Almayer , and so punctually sent for Nina's expenses , could dissuade Mrs. Vinck from her virtuous resolve . 
Nina was sent away , and in truth the girl herself wanted to go , although a little frightened by the impending change . 
She did not die from despair and disgust the first month , as she expected and almost hoped for . 
On the contrary , at the end of half a year it had seemed to her that she had known no other life . 
It seemed to Nina that there was no change and no difference . 
After all it was her life it was going to be her life , and so thinking she fell more and more under the influence of her mother . 
Almayer's difficulties were by no means diminished by the girl's presence in Sambir . 
Almayer suspected some attempt at a swindle , or at any rate something unpleasant , but of course consented with a great show of rejoicing . 
Accordingly the next evening , after sunset , Abdulla came , accompanied by several other grey beards and by his nephew . 
That young man of a very rakish and dissipated appearance affected the greatest indifference as to the whole of the proceedings . 
Almayer , surprised by the great solemnity of his visitors , perched himself on the corner of the table with a characteristic want of dignity quickly noted by the Arabs with grave disapproval . 
But Abdulla spoke now , looking straight past Almayer at the red curtain hanging in the doorway , where a slight tremor disclosed the presence of women on the other side . 
by the Dutch Commissie , and drew thence the flattering inference of Almayer's great importance amongst his own people . 
He Abdulla was also important amongst all the Arabs , and his nephew Reshid would be heir of that social position and of great riches . 
Now Reshid was a Hadji . 
He was possessor of several Malay women , went on Abdulla , but it was time he had a favourite wife , the first of the four allowed by the Prophet . 
You know , Tuan , he said , in conclusion , the other women would be her slaves , and Reshid's house is great . 
From Bombay he has brought great divans , and costly carpets , and European furniture . 
There is also a great looking glass in a frame shining like gold . 
Poor Almayer was nearly having a fit . 
Burning with the desire of taking Abdulla by the throat , he had but to think of his helpless position in the midst of lawless men to comprehend the necessity of diplomatic conciliation . 
He mastered his impulses , and spoke politely and coldly , saying the girl was young and as the apple of his eye . 
Abdulla understood the meaning of that silence , and rose to take leave with a grave salaam . 
He wished his friend Almayer a thousand years , and moved down the steps , helped dutifully by Reshid . 
The torch bearers shook their torches , scattering a shower of sparks into the river , and the cortege moved off , leaving Almayer agitated but greatly relieved by their departure . 
He dropped into a chair and watched the glimmer of the lights amongst the tree trunks till they disappeared and complete silence succeeded the tramp of feet and the murmur of voices . 
He did not move till the curtain rustled and Nina came out on the verandah and sat in the rocking chair , where she used to spend many hours every day . 
She gave a slight rocking motion to her seat , leaning back with half closed eyes , her long hair shading her face from the smoky light of the lamp on the table . 
Almayer looked at her furtively , but the face was as impassible as ever . 
She turned her head slightly towards her father , and , speaking , to his great surprise , in English , asked Was that Abdulla here ? Yes , said Almayer just gone . 
But Nina remained apparently unmoved , gazing dreamily into the black night outside . 
Be careful , Nina , said Almayer , after a short silence and rising from his chair , when you go paddling alone into the creeks in your canoe . 
That Reshid is a violent scoundrel , and there is no saying what he may do . 
Do you hear me ? She was standing now , ready to go in , one hand grasping the curtain in the doorway . 
She turned round , throwing her heavy tresses back by a sudden gesture . 
Do you think he would dare ? she asked , quickly , and then turned again to go in , adding in a lower tone , He would not dare . 
Almayer looked after her , astonished . 
He did not seek the repose of his hammock . 
He walked the floor absently , sometimes stopping by the balustrade to think . 
The first streak of dawn broke over the forest Almayer shivered in the damp air . 
I give it up , he muttered to himself , lying down wearily . 
That year , towards the breaking up of the south west monsoon , disquieting rumours reached Sambir . 
Captain Ford , coming up to Almayer's house for an evening's chat , brought late numbers of the Straits Times giving the news of Acheen war and of the unsuccessful Dutch expedition . 
To Reshid's great surprise the Rajah received his complaints very coldly , and showed no signs of vengeful disposition towards the white man . 
Almayer had now a friend . 
Through the thick fringe of bushes hiding the mouth of the creek she saw the tall spars of some European rigged sailing vessel overtopping the summits of the Nipa palms . 
A brig was being hauled out of the small creek into the main stream . 
The girl turned her canoe out of the main river into one of the many narrow channels amongst the wooded islets , and paddled vigorously over the black and sleepy backwaters towards Sambir . 
Nina had to cross the river and pass pretty close to the brig in order to reach home on the low promontory between the two branches of the Pantai . 
Up both branches , in the houses built on the banks and over the water , the lights twinkled already , reflected in the still waters below . 
, to which the strong light of the paraffin lamp shining on the whitewashed verandah of Almayer's bungalow served as a convenient guide . 
The jetty itself , under the shadow of the bank overgrown by drooping bushes , was hidden in darkness . 
She landed at the muddy head of the creek and made her way towards the house over the trodden grass of the courtyard . 
She rightly judged her mother was not near , laughter and Mrs. Almayer not being close neighbours . 
Outside the doorway , in the black shadow , stood the faithful Ali . 
Who is there ? asked Nina . 
A great Malay man has come , answered Ali , in a tone of suppressed excitement . 
He is a rich man . 
There are six men with lances . 
Real Soldat , you understand . 
And his dress is very brave . 
I have seen his dress . 
It shines ! What jewels ! Don't go there , Mem Nina . 
Tuan said not but the old Mem is gone . 
Her mother was feasting her eyes and ears with what was taking place on the front verandah , and Nina approached to take her share in the rare pleasure of some novelty . 
She was met by her mother's extended arm and by a low murmured warning not to make a noise . 
Have you seen them , mother ? asked Nina , in a breathless whisper . 
Mrs. Almayer turned her face towards the girl , and her sunken eyes shone strangely in the red half light of the passage . 
I saw him , she said , in an almost inaudible tone , pressing her daughter's hand with her bony fingers . 
A great Rajah has come to Sambir a Son of Heaven , muttered the old woman to herself . 
Go away , girl ! The two women stood close to the curtain , Nina wishing to approach the rent in the stuff , and her mother defending the position with angry obstinacy . 
The women struggled silently , when there was a shuffling noise and the shadow of Almayer's burly form fell on the curtain . 
The women ceased struggling and remained motionless . 
Almayer had stood up to answer his guest , turning his back to the doorway , unaware of what was going on on the other side . 
He spoke in a tone of regretful irritation . 
You have come to the wrong house , Tuan Maroola , if you want to trade as you say . 
I was a trader once , not now , whatever you may have heard about me in Macassar . 
And if you want anything , you will not find it here I have nothing to give , and want nothing myself . 
You should go to the Rajah here you can see in the daytime his houses across the river , there , where those fires are burning on the shore . 
He will help you and trade with you . 
Or , better still , go to the Arabs over there , he went on bitterly , pointing with his hand towards the houses of Sambir . 
Abdulla is the man you want . 
There is nothing he would not buy , and there is nothing he would not sell believe me , I know him well . 
He waited for an answer a short time , then added All that I have said is true , and there is nothing more . 
Is this not true also ? I have come , although so late , for I have something to say which you may be glad to hear . 
To morrow I will go to the Sultan a trader wants the friendship of great men . 
Then I shall return here to speak serious words , if Tuan permits . 
I shall not go to the Arabs their lies are very great ! What are they ? Chelakka ! Almayer's voice sounded a little more pleasantly in reply . 
Well , as you like . 
I can hear you to morrow at any time if you have anything to say . 
Bah ! After you have seen the Sultan Lakamba you will not want to return here , Inchi Dain . 
Only mind , I will have nothing to do with Lakamba . 
You may tell him so . 
What is your business with me , after all ? To morrow we talk , Tuan , now I know you , answered the Malay . 
Evidently Nina's strong curiosity was on the point of overcoming Mrs. Almayer's exalted sense of social proprieties . 
You shameless woman ! Are you a slave ? shouted shrilly the irate matron . 
The Malay nodded his head gravely , and his face assumed an expression of serene indifference , as etiquette demanded after such an explanation . 
He straightened himself up quickly after the low bow , putting his hand with a graceful ease on the hilt of his heavy short sword ornamented with brilliantly dyed fringes of horsehair . 
Nina , hesitating on the threshold , saw an erect lithe figure of medium height with a breadth of shoulder suggesting great power . 
It is my daughter , said Almayer , in an embarrassed manner . 
It is of no consequence . 
White women have their customs , as you know Tuan , having travelled much , as you say . 
However , it is late we will finish our talk to morrow . 
Dain bent low trying to convey in a last glance towards the girl the bold expression of his overwhelming admiration . 
The next minute he was shaking Almayer's hand with grave courtesy , his face wearing a look of stolid unconcern as to any feminine presence . 
His men filed off , and he followed them quickly , closely attended by a thick set , savage looking Sumatrese he had introduced before as the commander of his brig . 
The boat shoved off after a little while , looming large in the full light of the moon , a black shapeless mass in the slight haze hanging over the water . 
Almayer had approached his daughter , and leaning with both arms over the rail , was looking moodily down on the heap of rubbish and broken bottles at the foot of the verandah . 
What was all that noise just now ? he growled peevishly , without looking up . 
Confound you and your mother ! What did she want ? What did you come out for ? She did not want to let me come out , said Nina . 
She says the man just gone is some Rajah . 
I think she is right now . 
I believe all you women are crazy , snarled Almayer . 
What's that to you , to her , to anybody ? The man wants to collect trepang and birds' nests on the islands . 
He told me so , that Rajah of yours . 
He will come to morrow . 
I want you both to keep away from the house , and let me attend to my business in peace . 
Dain Maroola came the next day and had a long conversation with Almayer . 
Great was the curiosity in Sambir on the subject of the new trader . 
Even in more substantial buildings , in Abdulla's house , in the residences of principal traders , Arab , Chinese , and Bugis , the excitement ran high , and lasted many days . 
With inborn suspicion they would not believe the simple account of himself the young trader was always ready to give . 
Yet it had all the appearance of truth . 
He said he was a trader , and sold rice . 
Those two articles he professed himself ready to buy if there were any to be obtained in that way . 
He said he was from Bali , and a Brahmin , which last statement he made good by refusing all food during his often repeated visits to Lakamba's and Almayer's houses . 
To Lakamba he went generally at night and had long audiences . 
When questioned with languid courtesy by the grave Abdulla he sought refuge in a vacant stare of his one eye , and in the affectation of extreme simplicity . 
I am only my master's slave , murmured Babalatchi , in a hesitating manner . 
Abdulla , firmly persuaded of the existence of some more important dealings , received , however , the information with all the signs of respectful astonishment . 
Attentive eyes watched his movements . 
But Babalatchi's discretion was proof even against the combined assaults of good fellowship and of strong gin generously administered by the open hearted Chinaman . 
Ever since a reconciliation had been effected by Dain Maroola between his white friend and the Rajah , the one eyed diplomatist had again become a frequent guest in the Dutchman's house . 
He was very shy of the master himself , as if suspicious that the pent up feelings of the white man towards his person might find vent in a sudden kick . 
Almayer wanted more than once to complain to Lakamba of his Prime Minister's intrusion , but Dain dissuaded him . 
We cannot say a word here that he does not hear , growled Almayer . 
Then come and talk on board the brig , retorted Dain , with a quiet smile . 
It is good to let the man come here . 
Lakamba thinks he knows much . 
Perhaps the Sultan thinks I want to run away . 
Better let the one eyed crocodile sun himself in your campong , Tuan . 
And Almayer assented unwillingly muttering vague threats of personal violence , while he eyed malevolently the aged statesman sitting with quiet obstinacy by his domestic rice pot . 
CHAPTER V. At last the excitement had died out in Sambir . 
Slowly and languidly Babalatchi paddled , crouching low in the boat , making himself small under his as enormous sun hat to escape the scorching heat reflected from the water . 
He was not in a hurry his master , Lakamba , was surely reposing at this time of the day . 
He would have ample time to cross over and greet him on his waking with important news . 
Indeed , he had a report to make . 
He followed them , but in a short time they took to the paddles and got away from under his observant eye . 
A few minutes afterwards he saw Bulangi's slave girl paddling in a small dug out to the town with her cakes for sale . 
She also had seen them in the grey dawn . 
That little Taminah evidently admired Dain Maroola . 
That afternoon Almayer , as was his wont lately , moved about on the water side , overlooking the repairs to his boats . 
He had decided at last . 
The dangers were great , but Maroola was brave his men seemed as reckless as their chief , and with Lakamba's aid success seemed assured . 
He hardly saw Nina during these last days , although the beloved daughter was ever present in his thoughts . 
He hardly took notice of Dain , whose constant presence in his house had become a matter of course to him now they were connected by a community of interests . 
And Maroola , now the bargain was struck and there was no more business to be talked over , evidently did not care for the white man's company . 
Yet Dain was always about the house , but he seldom stayed long by the riverside . 
Avoiding that shed , with its black smoke and the warbling of soft , feminine voices , Dain would turn to the left . 
She recognised with a thrill of delicious fear the mysterious consciousness of her identity with that being . 
And they used to pass many a delicious and fast fleeting hour under the mango trees behind the friendly curtain of bushes till Mrs. Almayer's shrill voice gave the signal of unwilling separation . 
Mrs. Almayer had undertaken the easy task of watching her husband lest he should interrupt the smooth course of her daughter's love affair , in which she took a great and benignant interest . 
On the eve of the day when Babalatchi's suspicions were confirmed by ocular demonstration , Dain and Nina had remained longer than usual in their shady retreat . 
Only Almayer's heavy step on the verandah and his querulous clamour for food decided Mrs. Almayer to lift a warning cry . 
Almayer felt happy enough that evening the preparations were nearly completed to morrow he would launch his boats . 
Nina , reclining in the long chair , listened absently to the few disconnected words escaping from her father's lips . 
Expedition ! Gold ! What did she care for all that ? But at the name of Maroola mentioned by her father she was all attention . 
Dain was going down the river with his brig to morrow to remain away for a few days , said Almayer . 
It was very annoying , this delay . 
As soon as Dain returned they would have to start without loss of time , for the river was rising . 
He would not be surprised if a great flood was coming . 
And he pushed away his plate with an impatient gesture on rising from the table . 
But now Nina heard him not . 
Dain going away ! That's why he had ordered her , with that quiet masterfulness it was her delight to obey , to meet him at break of day in Bulangi's creek . 
Was there a paddle in her canoe ? she thought . 
Was it ready ? She would have to start early at four in the morning , in a very few hours . 
She rose from her chair , thinking she would require rest before the long pull in the early morning . 
The lamp was burning dimly , and her father , tired with the day's labour , was already in his hammock . 
Nina put the lamp out and passed into a large room she shared with her mother on the left of the central passage . 
Mrs. Almayer's back was bent , and her head and shoulders hidden in the deep box . 
Her hands rummaged in the interior , where a soft clink as of silver money could be heard . 
The music of tinkling silver seemed to delight her , and her eyes sparkled with the reflected gleam of freshly minted coins . 
She was muttering to herself And this , and this , and yet this ! Soon he will give more as much more as I ask . 
Have you ? she shouted , shrilly . 
That is all mine , and for you . 
It is not enough ! He will have to give more before he takes you away to the southern island where his father is king . 
You hear me ? You are worth more , granddaughter of Rajahs ! More ! More ! The sleepy voice of Almayer was heard on the verandah recommending silence . 
Mrs. Almayer extinguished the light and crept into her corner of the room . 
With quiet happiness she thought of that meeting in the great forest , far from all human eyes and sounds . 
There are some situations where the barbarian and the , so called , civilised man meet upon the same ground . 
It may be supposed that Dain Maroola was not exceptionally delighted with his prospective mother in law , nor that he actually approved of that worthy woman's appetite for shining dollars . 
He hid his canoe in the bushes and strode rapidly across the islet , pushing with impatience through the twigs of heavy undergrowth intercrossed over his path . 
From motives of prudence he would not take his canoe to the meeting place , as Nina had done . 
He had left it in the main stream till his return from the other side of the island . 
The heavy warm fog was closing rapidly round him , but he managed to catch a fleeting glimpse of a light away to the left , proceeding from Bulangi's house . 
A great log had stranded there , at right angles to the bank , forming a kind of jetty against which the swiftly flowing stream broke with a loud ripple . 
The bow of Nina's canoe loomed up close to the log , canted high out of the water by the weight of the sitter in the stern . 
Maroola laid his hand on the stem and leaped lightly in , giving it a vigorous shove off . 
Nina disengaged herself gently with a low laugh . 
You will overturn the boat , Dain , she whispered . 
She bent over him , and , shaking her head , framed both their faces in the falling locks of her long black hair . 
To those two nothing existed then outside the gunwales of the narrow and fragile craft . 
It was their world , filled with their intense and all absorbing love . 
Earth , river , and sky were wrapped up in a deep sleep , from which it seemed there would be no waking . 
Suddenly a great sheaf of yellow rays shot upwards from behind the black curtain of trees lining the banks of the Pantai . 
Great flocks of white birds wheeled screaming above the swaying tree tops . 
The sun had risen on the east coast . 
Dain was the first to return to the cares of everyday life . 
He rose and glanced rapidly up and down the river . 
His eye detected Babalatchi's boat astern , and another small black speck on the glittering water , which was Taminah's canoe . 
He moved cautiously forward , and , kneeling , took up a paddle Nina at the stern took hers . 
Without turning his head , Dain spoke . 
Somebody behind us , Nina . 
We must not let him gain . 
I think he is too far to recognise us . 
Somebody before us also , panted out Nina , without ceasing to paddle . 
I think I know , rejoined Dain . 
The sun shines over there , but I fancy it is the girl Taminah . 
She comes down every morning to my brig to sell cakes stays often all day . 
It does not matter steer more into the bank we must get under the bushes . 
My canoe is hidden not far from here . 
As he spoke his eyes watched the broad leaved nipas which they were brushing in their swift and silent course . 
Look out , Nina , he said at last there , where the water palms end and the twigs hang down under the leaning tree . 
Steer for the big green branch . 
He stood up attentive , and the boat drifted slowly in shore , Nina guiding it by a gentle and skilful movement of her paddle . 
His own boat was there anchored by a stone , and he stepped into it , keeping his hand on the gunwale of Nina's canoe . 
We must part now , said Dain , after a long silence . 
You must return at once , Nina . 
I will wait till the brig drifts down here , and shall get on board then . 
And will you be long away , Dain ? asked Nina , in a low voice . 
Would a man willingly remain long in a dark place ? When I am not near you , Nina , I am like a man that is blind . 
Apparently she found there the confirmation of the words just said , for a feeling of grateful security lightened for her the weight of sorrow at the hour of parting . 
An immense wave of gratitude and love welled forth out of her heart towards him . 
She threw her arms around Dain's neck and pressed her lips to his in a long and burning kiss . 
He must go on board now , he thought yet he was loth to leave the place where he had learned to know what happiness meant . 
They had his very last coin , and did not care whether he went or stayed . 
This caused him many sleepless nights , spent in speculating upon the kind of villainy those estimable personages were hatching now . 
Still , Dain had returned at last . 
Evidently he meant to keep to his bargain . 
Hope revived , and that night Almayer slept soundly , while Nina watched the angry river under the lash of the thunderstorm sweeping onward towards the sea . 
Dain was not long in crossing the river after leaving Almayer . 
He landed at the water gate of the stockade enclosing the group of houses which composed the residence of the Rajah of Sambir . 
The other buildings within the enclosure served only to accommodate the numerous household and the wives of the ruler . 
The building stood parallel to the river , one of its long sides facing the water gate of the stockade . 
There was a door in the short side looking up the river , and the inclined plank way led straight from the gate to that door . 
By the uncertain light of smoky torches , Dain noticed the vague outlines of a group of armed men in the dark shadows to his right . 
From that group Babalatchi stepped forward to open the door , and Dain entered the audience chamber of the Rajah's residence . 
Otherwise the room was only furnished with mats in great profusion . 
To the left of the entrance stood a rude arm rack , with three rifles with fixed bayonets in it . 
An European lamp with a green shade standing on the table made all this indistinctly visible to Dain . 
You are welcome to your rest here , said Babalatchi , looking at Dain interrogatively . 
I must speak to the Rajah at once , answered Dain . 
Babalatchi made a gesture of assent , and , turning to the brass gong suspended under the arm rack , struck two sharp blows . 
The ear splitting din woke up the guard . 
Is that the Arab trader ? No , Tuan , answered Babalatchi Dain has returned at last . 
He is here for an important talk , bitcharra if you mercifully consent . 
A short red sarong tightened hastily round his hips was his only garment . 
The merciful ruler of Sambir looked sleepy and rather sulky . 
But Dain did not seem anxious to begin . 
His heart had hungered for the sight of Dain's face , and his ears were withering for the want of the refreshing sound of his voice . 
Once or twice during this opening speech an amused expression flitted across Dain's face , soon to give way , however , to an appearance of grave concern . 
On Lakamba's brow a heavy frown had settled , and his lips moved angrily as he listened to his Prime Minister's oratory . 
After a short silence , Babalatchi , discarding now the flowers of polite eloquence , spoke again , but in short and hurried sentences and in a low voice . 
They had been very uneasy . 
Rumours of a disaster had reached Abdulla a few days ago , and since then they had been waiting for Dain's return under the apprehension of some misfortune . 
For days they had closed their eyes in fear , and woke up alarmed , and walked abroad trembling , like men before an enemy . 
And all on account of Dain . 
Babalatchi subsided into silence with a satisfied smile , while Dain , who had been watching him as if fascinated , turned with a sigh of relief towards the ruler of Sambir . 
Lakamba did not move , and , without raising his head , looked at Dain from under his eyebrows , breathing audibly , with pouted lips , in an air of general discontent . 
Speak ! O Dain ! he said at last . 
We have heard many rumours . 
Many nights in succession has my friend Reshid come here with bad tidings . 
News travels fast along the coast . 
But they may be untrue there are more lies in men's mouths in these days than when I was young , but I am not easier to deceive now . 
All my words are true , said Dain , carelessly . 
If you want to know what befell my brig , then learn that it is in the hands of the Dutch . 
Babalatchi rose quietly , and , going to the arm rack , struck the gong violently . 
Outside the door there was a shuffle of bare feet inside , the guard woke up and sat staring in sleepy surprise . 
When I saw the Dutch ship I ran the brig inside the reefs and put her ashore . 
They did not dare to follow with the ship , so they sent the boats . 
We took to ours and tried to get away , but the ship dropped fireballs at us , and killed many of my men . 
But I am left , O Babalatchi ! The Dutch are coming here . 
They are seeking for me . 
They are coming to ask their faithful friend Lakamba and his slave Babalatchi . 
Rejoice ! But neither of his hearers appeared to be in a joyful mood . 
The guard evinced some interest in the proceedings , stretching themselves full length on the mats to be nearer the speaker . 
One of them got up and now stood leaning against the arm rack , playing absently with the fringes of his sword hilt . 
Dain waited till the crash of thunder had died away in distant mutterings before he spoke again . 
You came here because of the white man's daughter , retorted Lakamba , quickly . 
Your refuge was with your father , the Rajah of Bali , the Son of Heaven , the 'Anak Agong' himself . 
What am I to protect great princes ? Only yesterday I planted rice in a burnt clearing to day you say I hold your life in my hand . 
Babalatchi glanced at his master . 
No man can escape his fate , he murmured piously . 
When love enters a man's heart he is like a child without any understanding . 
Be merciful , Lakamba , he added , twitching the corner of the Rajah's sarong warningly . 
Lakamba snatched away the skirt of the sarong angrily . 
You came here first as a trader with sweet words and great promises , asking me to look the other way while you worked your will on the white man there . 
What do you want now ? When I was young I fought . 
Now I am old , and want peace . 
It is easier for me to have you killed than to fight the Dutch . 
It is better for me . 
The squall had now passed , and , in the short stillness of the lull in the storm , Lakamba repeated softly , as if to himself , Much easier . 
Dain did not seem greatly discomposed by the Rajah's threatening words . 
Otherwise Dain was not uneasy . 
In fact , Dain knew very well that Lakamba was too deeply implicated in the gunpowder smuggling to care for an investigation the Dutch authorities into that matter . 
Lakamba would have nothing to do himself with any illegal traffic . 
Almayer , at last consenting , said the powder would be obtained , but Dain must trust him with dollars to send to Singapore in payment for it . 
He would induce Ford to buy and smuggle it in the steamer on board the brig . 
He did not want any money for himself out of the transaction , but Dain must help him in his great enterprise after sending off the brig . 
To this Almayer had to submit . 
Had Dain not seen Nina he would have probably refused to engage himself and his men in the projected expedition to Gunong Mas the mountain of gold . 
So Dain felt tolerably secure as he sat meditating quietly his answer to the Rajah's bloodthirsty speech . 
Yes , he would point out to him the aspect of his position should he Dain fall into the hands of the Dutch and should he speak the truth . 
He would have nothing more to lose then , and he would speak the truth . 
And if he did return to Sambir , disturbing thereby Lakamba's peace of mind , what then ? He came to look after his property . 
He had the right to be in Sambir . 
He spoke most , whispering earnestly , turning his head slowly from side to side so as to bring his solitary eye to bear upon each of his interlocutors in turn . 
Why should there be strife ? said he . 
Let Tuan Dain , whom he loved only less than his master , go trustfully into hiding . 
There were many places for that . 
Bulangi's house away in the clearing was best . 
Bulangi was a safe man . 
In the network of crooked channels no white man could find his way . 
White men were strong , but very foolish . 
It was undesirable to fight them , but deception was easy . 
Probably the Dutch would seek Almayer . 
Maybe they would take away their countryman if they were suspicious of him . 
After the Dutch went away Lakamba and Dain would get the treasure without any trouble , and there would be one person less to share it . 
The statesman sighed as a man accepting the inevitable would do , and pointed silently towards the other bank of the river . 
Dain bent his head slowly . 
Yes , I am going there , he said . 
Before the day comes ? asked Babalatchi . 
I am going there now , answered Dain , decisively . 
The Orang Blanda will not be here before to morrow night , perhaps , and I must tell Almayer of our arrangements . 
No say nothing , protested Babalatchi . 
I will go over myself at sunrise and let him know . 
I will see , said Dain , preparing to go . 
The thunderstorm was recommencing outside , the heavy clouds hanging low overhead now . 
Outside the door of the Rajah's house Dain and Babalatchi stood on the shaking verandah as if dazed and stunned by the violence of the storm . 
This is a great flood ! shouted Babalatchi into Dain's ear . 
The river is very angry . 
Suddenly , in a vivid white flash , the low point of land with the bending trees on it and Almayer's house , leaped into view , flickered and disappeared . 
Dain pushed Babalatchi aside and ran down to the water gate followed by his shivering boatmen . 
Babalatchi backed slowly in and closed the door , then turned round and looked silently upon Lakamba . 
The Rajah sat still , glaring stonily upon the table , and Babalatchi gazed curiously at the perplexed mood of the man he had served so many years through good and evil fortune . 
No doubt the one eyed statesman felt within his savage and much sophisticated breast the unwonted feelings of sympathy with , and perhaps even pity for , the man he called his master . 
Babalatchi sighed for the second time that night as he squatted again at his master's feet and tendered him his betel nut box in mute sympathy . 
There is a very great flood , remarked Babalatchi , sadly . 
Did Dain go ? He went , Tuan . 
He ran down to the river like a man possessed of the Sheitan himself . 
There was another long pause . 
He may get drowned , suggested Lakamba at last , with some show of interest . 
The floating logs are many , answered Babalatchi , but he is a good swimmer , he added languidly . 
He ought to live , said Lakamba he knows where the treasure is . 
Babalatchi assented with an ill humoured grunt . 
A great peace had now succeeded the turmoil of the storm . 
Lakamba roused himself from his apathy with an appearance of having grasped the situation at last . 
Babalatchi , he called briskly , giving him a slight kick . 
Ada Tuan ! I am listening . 
You are a fool , commented Lakamba , exultingly . 
He will tell them where the treasure is , so as to find mercy . 
Babalatchi looked up at his master and nodded his head with by no means a joyful surprise . 
He had not thought of this there was a new complication . 
Almayer must die , said Lakamba , decisively , to make our secret safe . 
He must die quietly , Babalatchi . 
Babalatchi assented , and rose wearily to his feet . 
To morrow ? he asked . 
Yes before the Dutch come . 
He drinks much coffee , answered Lakamba , with seeming irrelevancy . 
Babalatchi stretched himself yawning , but Lakamba , in the flattering consciousness of a knotty problem solved by his own unaided intellectual efforts , grew suddenly very wakeful . 
Babalatchi , he said to the exhausted statesman , fetch the box of music the white captain gave me . 
At this order a deep shade of melancholy settled upon Babalatchi's features . 
He went reluctantly behind the curtain and soon reappeared carrying in his arms a small hand organ , which he put down on the table with an air of deep dejection . 
Lakamba settled himself comfortably in his arm chair . 
Turn , Babalatchi , turn , he murmured , with closed eyes . 
Babalatchi's hand grasped the handle with the energy of despair , and as he turned , the deep gloom on his countenance changed into an expression of hopeless resignation . 
Through the open shutter the notes of Verdi's music floated out on the great silence over the river and forest . 
For the houses were deserted too . 
Almayer , just out of his hammock , gazed sleepily at the unwonted appearance of Sambir , wondering vaguely at the absence of life . 
But Almayer was not thinking of his furniture now . 
He was thinking of Dain's return , of Dain's nocturnal interview with Lakamba , of its possible influence on his long matured plans , now nearing the period of their execution . 
He was also uneasy at the non appearance of Dain who had promised him an early visit . 
The fellow had plenty of time to cross the river , he mused , and there was so much to be done to day . 
The settling of details for the early start on the morrow the launching of the boats the thousand and one finishing touches . 
What has happened ? he muttered half aloud , as he shuffled in his imperfectly adjusted slippers towards the balustrade of the verandah . 
Is everybody asleep or dead ? The settlement was alive and very much awake . 
Mahmat walked through the wet grass saying bourrouh , and cursing softly to himself the hard necessities of active life that drove him from his warm couch into the cold of the morning . 
Mahmat walked down to the water's edge to examine the rattan moorings of his house just as the sun cleared the trees of the forest on the opposite shore . 
It was something red , and the logs rolled over it , at times closing round it , sometimes hiding it . 
It looked to him at first like a strip of red cloth . 
The next moment Mahmat had made it out and raised a great shout . 
Ah ya ! There ! yelled Mahmat . 
There's a man amongst the logs . 
They took up the cry shrilly , and it travelled so from house to house , dying away in the distance . 
Almayer called aloud for his wife and daughter , but receiving no response , stood listening intently . 
The murmur of the crowd reached him faintly , bringing with it the assurance of some unusual event . 
He glanced at the river just as he was going to leave the verandah and checked himself at the sight of a small canoe crossing over from the Rajah's landing place . 
effected the crossing a little below the house and paddled up to the Lingard jetty in the dead water under the bank . 
Babalatchi clambered out slowly and went on fastening his canoe with fastidious care , as if not in a hurry to meet Almayer , whom he saw looking at him from the verandah . 
This delay gave Almayer time to notice and greatly wonder at Babalatchi's official get up . 
The statesman of Sambir was clad in a costume befitting his high rank . 
A loudly checkered sarong encircled his waist , and from its many folds peeped out the silver hilt of the kriss that saw the light only on great festivals or during official receptions . 
Babalatchi's head was covered by a red turban , whose fringed ends falling over the left cheek and shoulder gave to his aged face a ludicrous expression of joyous recklessness . 
Almayer waved his hand to the right towards the point of land , to him invisible , but in full view from the jetty . 
Almayer , now greatly interested , ran down the steps of the verandah . 
He could indistinctly hear Babalatchi's voice , then the crowd opened before the aged statesman and closed after him with an excited hum , ending in a loud shout . 
As Almayer approached the throng a man ran out and rushed past him towards the settlement , unheeding his call to stop and explain the cause of this excitement . 
In the midst of his gentle and slow progress he fancied suddenly he had heard his wife's voice in the thickest of the throng . 
He could not mistake very well Mrs. Almayer's high pitched tones , yet the words were too indistinct for him to understand their purport . 
For a moment Almayer remained as if turned into stone with astonishment and horror , for he was certain now that he had heard his wife wailing for the dead . 
On the point of land in a little clear space lay the body of the stranger just hauled out from amongst the logs . 
Mahmat , dripping wet , turned to Almayer , eager to tell his tale . 
In the first moment of reaction from the anguish of his fear the sunshine seemed to waver before Almayer's eyes , and he listened to words spoken around him without comprehending their meaning . 
When , by a strong effort of will , he regained the possession of his senses , Mahmat was saying That is the way , Tuan . 
His sarong was caught in the broken branch , and he hung with his head under water . 
When I saw what it was I did not want it here . 
I wanted it to get clear and drift away . 
Mahmat looked reproachfully at Babalatchi . 
In the midst of that mirth Mrs. Almayer wailed suddenly again . 
Allah ! What ails the woman ! exclaimed Mahmat , angrily . 
Here , I have touched this carcass which came from nobody knows where , and have most likely defiled myself before eating rice . 
By orders of Tuan Babalatchi I did this thing to please the white man . 
Are you pleased , O Tuan Almayer ? And what will be my recompense ? Tuan Babalatchi said a recompense there will be , and from you . 
I have been defiled , and if not defiled I may be under the spell . 
Look at his anklets ! Who ever heard of a corpse appearing during the night amongst the logs with gold anklets on its legs ? There is witchcraft there . 
However , added Mahmat , after a reflective pause , I will have the anklet if there is permission , for I have a charm against the ghosts and am not afraid . 
God is great ! A fresh outburst of noisy grief from Mrs. Almayer checked the flow of Mahmat's eloquence . 
Do you know who this is ? he asked of Babalatchi , in a low voice . 
Babalatchi , staring straight before him , hardly moved his lips , while Mrs. Almayer's persistent lamentations drowned the whisper of his murmured reply intended only for Almayer's ear . 
Look at your feet , white man . 
I can see a ring on those torn fingers which I know well . 
Saying this , Babalatchi stepped carelessly forward , putting his foot as if accidentally on the hand of the corpse and pressing it into the soft mud . 
He swung his staff menacingly towards the crowd , which fell back a little . 
Go away , he said sternly , and send your women to their cooking fires , which they ought not to have left to run after a dead stranger . 
This is men's work here . 
I take him now in the name of the Rajah . 
Let no man remain here but Tuan Almayer's slaves . 
Now go ! The crowd reluctantly began to disperse . 
The women went first , dragging away the children that hung back with all their weight on the maternal hand . 
I do not understand what you mean , Babalatchi , said Almayer . 
What is the ring you are talking about ? Whoever he is , you have trodden the poor fellow's hand right into the mud . 
Hai ! exclaimed Mahmat , who had lingered close by . 
There are his flesh and his bones , the nose , and the lips , and maybe his eyes , but nobody could tell the one from the other . 
It was written the day he was born that no man could look at him in death and be able to say , 'This is my friend's face . 
Silence , Mahmat enough ! said Babalatchi , and take thy eyes off his anklet , thou eater of pigs flesh . 
Tuan Almayer , he went on , lowering his voice , have you seen Dain this morning ? Almayer opened his eyes wide and looked alarmed . 
No , he said quickly haven't you seen him ? Is he not with the Rajah ? I am waiting why does he not come ? Babalatchi nodded his head sadly . 
He is come , Tuan . 
He left last night when the storm was great and the river spoke angrily . 
Therefore he went and now he lies here . 
And Babalatchi nodded his head towards the body . 
How can you tell ? said Almayer , excitedly , pushing his wife aside . 
He snatched the cover off and looked at the formless mass of flesh , hair , and drying mud , where the face of the drowned man should have been . 
Nobody can tell , he added , turning away with a shudder . 
Babalatchi was on his knees wiping the mud from the stiffened fingers of the outstretched hand . 
He rose to his feet and flashed before Almayer's eyes a gold ring set with a large green stone . 
You know this well , he said . 
This never left Dain's hand . 
I had to tear the flesh now to get it off . 
Do you believe now ? Almayer raised his hands to his head and let them fall listlessly by his side in the utter abandonment of despair . 
Babalatchi , looking at him curiously , was astonished to see him smile . 
A strange fancy had taken possession of Almayer's brain , distracted by this new misfortune . 
It seemed to him that for many years he had been falling into a deep precipice . 
It struck him as funny . 
He seemed somehow to himself to be standing on one side , a little way off , looking at a certain Almayer who was in great trouble . 
Poor , poor fellow ! Why doesn't he cut his throat ? He wished to encourage him he was very anxious to see him lying dead over that other corpse . 
Why does he not die and end this suffering ? He groaned aloud unconsciously and started with affright at the sound of his own voice . 
Not mad , not mad . 
He stumbled as he ran blindly up the steps repeating fast and ever faster those words wherein seemed to lie his salvation . 
He sat staring wildly at Nina , still assuring himself mentally of his own sanity and wondering why the girl shrank from him in open eyed alarm . 
What was the matter with her ? This was foolish . 
Nina returned with a tumbler half filled with gin , and found her father staring absently before him . 
Almayer felt very tired now , as if he had come from a long journey . 
He felt as if he had walked miles and miles that morning and now wanted to rest very much . 
He took the tumbler with a shaking hand , and as he drank his teeth chattered against the glass which he drained and set down heavily on the table . 
He turned his eyes slowly towards Nina standing beside him , and said steadily Now all is over , Nina . 
He is dead , and I may as well burn all my boats . 
He felt very proud of being able to speak so calmly . 
Decidedly he was not going mad . 
This certitude was very comforting , and he went on talking about the finding of the body , listening to his own voice complacently . 
And so Dain is dead , she said coldly , when her father ceased speaking . 
Almayer's elaborately calm demeanour gave way in a moment to an outburst of violent indignation . 
You stand there as if you were only half alive , and talk to me , he exclaimed angrily , as if it was a matter of no importance . 
You have no heart , and you have no mind , or you would have understood that it was for you , for your happiness I was working . 
I wanted to be rich I wanted to get away from here . 
I wanted to see white men bowing low before the power of your beauty and your wealth . 
For that I bore patiently the burden of work , of disappointment , of humiliation amongst these savages here , and I had it all nearly in my grasp . 
He looked at his daughter's attentive face and jumped to his feet upsetting the chair . 
Do you hear ? I had it all there so within reach of my hand . 
He paused , trying to keep down his rising anger , and failed . 
Have you no feeling ? he went on . 
Have you lived without hope ? Nina's silence exasperated him his voice rose , although he tried to master his feelings . 
He waited for a while for an answer , and receiving none shook his fist in his daughter's face . 
I believe you are an idiot ! he yelled . 
He looked round for the chair , picked it up and sat down stiffly . 
And now his heart was filled only with a great tenderness and love for his daughter . 
If she suffered herself she would understand and pity him but now she would not , or could not , find one word of comfort or love for him in his dire extremity . 
The sense of his absolute loneliness came home to his heart with a force that made him shudder . 
He swayed and fell forward with his face on the table , his arms stretched straight out , extended and rigid . 
Nina sighed deeply and moved away from the table . 
Her features lost the appearance of stony indifference that had exasperated her father into his outburst of anger and sorrow . 
The expression of her face , now unseen by her father , underwent a rapid change . 
And she submitted after a short and fierce struggle of her old self against the new principle of her life . 
She wrapped herself up in absolute silence , the only safeguard against some fatal admission . 
The long grass in the neglected courtyard stood very straight before her eyes in the noonday heat . 
Lay him there , said Babalatchi to Almayer's men , pointing to a pile of drying planks in front of the verandah . 
He was a Kaffir and the son of a dog , and he was the white man's friend . 
He drank the white man's strong water , he added , with affected horror . 
That I have seen myself . 
Almayer's men , after laying down their burden , dispersed themselves in quest of shady spots wherein to idle the day away . 
Babalatchi was left alone by the corpse that laid rigid under the white cloth in the bright sunshine . 
Nina came down the steps and joined Babalatchi , who put his hand to his forehead , and squatted down with great deference . 
You have a bangle there , said Nina , looking down on Babalatchi's upturned face and into his solitary eye . 
I have , Mem Putih , returned the polite statesman . 
Then turning towards Mahmat he beckoned him closer , calling out , Come here ! Mahmat approached with some hesitation . 
He avoided looking at Nina , but fixed his eyes on Babalatchi . 
Now , listen , said Babalatchi , sharply . 
The ring and the anklet you have seen , and you know they belonged to Dain the trader , and to no other . 
Dain returned last night in a canoe . 
He spoke with the Rajah , and in the middle of the night left to cross over to the white man's house . 
There was a great flood , and this morning you found him in the river . 
By his feet I dragged him out , muttered Mahmat under his breath . 
Tuan Babalatchi , there will be a recompense ! he exclaimed aloud . 
Babalatchi held up the gold bangle before Mahmat's eyes . 
What I have told you , Mahmat , is for all ears . 
What I give you now is for your eyes only . 
Mahmat took the bangle eagerly and hid it in the folds of his waist cloth . 
Am I a fool to show this thing in a house with three women in it ? he growled . 
But I shall tell them about Dain the trader , and there will be talk enough . 
He turned and went away , increasing his pace as soon as he was outside Almayer's compound . 
Babalatchi looked after him till he disappeared behind the bushes . 
Have I done well , Mem Putih ? he asked , humbly addressing Nina . 
You have , answered Nina . 
The ring you may keep yourself . 
Babalatchi touched his lips and forehead , and scrambled to his feet . 
He looked at Nina , as if expecting her to say something more , but Nina turned towards the house and went up the steps , motioning him away with her hand . 
Babalatchi picked up his staff and prepared to go . 
It was very warm , and he did not care for the long pull to the Rajah's house . 
Yet he must go and tell the Rajah tell of the event of the change in his plans of all his suspicions . 
He walked to the jetty and began casting off the rattan painter of his canoe . 
The broad expanse of the lower reach , with its shimmering surface dotted by the black specks of the fishing canoes , lay before his eyes . 
The fishermen seemed to be racing . 
Babalatchi paused in his work , and looked on with sudden interest . 
The men began to unfasten their boats , the women stood in groups looking towards the bend down the river . 
Above the trees lining the reach a slight puff of smoke appeared like a black stain on the brilliant blue of the cloudless sky . 
Babalatchi stood perplexed , the painter in his hand . 
He looked down the reach , then up towards Almayer's house , and back again at the river as if undecided what to do . 
At last he made the canoe fast again hastily , and ran towards the house and up the steps of the verandah . 
Tuan ! Tuan ! he called , eagerly . 
The man of war's boats . 
You had better get ready . 
The officers will come here , I know . 
Almayer lifted his head slowly from the table , and looked at him stupidly . 
Mem Putih ! exclaimed Babalatchi to Nina , look at him . 
You must take care , he added meaningly . 
The smile died out , and was replaced by the old look of anxious attention . 
From the hills far away the echo came back like a long drawn and mournful sigh , as if the land had sent it in answer to the voice of its masters . 
The news as to the identity of the body lying now in Almayer's compound spread rapidly over the settlement . 
During the forenoon most of the inhabitants remained in the long street discussing the mysterious return and the unexpected death of the man who had become known to them as the trader . 
And for all his trouble he had nothing . 
The ring with the green stone Tuan Babalatchi kept . 
Nothing ! Nothing ! He spat down at his feet in sign of disgust , and left that group to seek further on a fresh audience . 
Reshid , who was busy on the jetty , was summoned into his uncle's presence and found him , as usual , very calm and even cheerful , but very much surprised . 
The rumour of the capture or destruction of Dain's brig had reached the Arab's ears three days before from the sea fishermen and through the dwellers on the lower reaches of the river . 
It had been passed up stream from neighbour to neighbour till Bulangi , whose clearing was nearest to the settlement , had brought that news himself to Abdulla whose favour he courted . 
But rumour also spoke of a fight and of Dain's death on board his own vessel . 
And now all the settlement talked of Dain's visit to the Rajah and of his death when crossing the river in the dark to see Almayer . 
They could not understand this . 
Reshid thought that it was very strange . 
He felt uneasy and doubtful . 
But Abdulla , after the first shock of surprise , with the old age's dislike for solving riddles , showed a becoming resignation . 
He remarked that the man was dead now at all events , and consequently no more dangerous . 
He lingered by his uncle , pulling thoughtfully his neatly trimmed beard . 
There are many lies , he murmured . 
He has been dead once before , and came to life to die again now . 
The Dutch will be here before many days and clamour for the man . 
Shall I not believe my eyes sooner than the tongues of women and idle men ? They say that the body is being taken to Almayer's compound , said Abdulla . 
If you want to go there you must go before the Dutch arrive here . 
It should not be said that we have been seen inside that man's enclosure lately . 
Reshid assented to the truth of this last remark and left his uncle's side . 
He leaned against the lintel of the big doorway and looked idly across the courtyard through the open gate on to the main road of the settlement . 
It lay empty , straight , and yellow under the flood of light . 
Swarms of yellow butterflies rose , and settled to rise again in short flights before Reshid's half closed eyes . 
From under his feet arose the dull hum of insects in the long grass of the courtyard . 
From one of the side paths amongst the houses a woman stepped out on the road , a slight girlish figure walking under the shade of a large tray balanced on its head . 
The consciousness of something moving stirred Reshid's half sleeping senses into a comparative wakefulness . 
He recognised Taminah , Bulangi's slave girl , with her tray of cakes for sale an apparition of daily recurrence and of no importance whatever . 
She was going towards Almayer's house . 
She could be made useful . 
He roused himself up and ran towards the gate calling out , Taminah O ! The girl stopped , hesitated , and came back slowly . 
Reshid waited , signing to her impatiently to come nearer . 
When near Reshid Taminah stood with downcast eyes . 
I have heard this talk , whispered Taminah and this morning by the riverside I saw the body . 
Where it is now I do not know . 
So you have seen it ? asked Reshid , eagerly . 
Is it Dain ? You have seen him many times . 
The girl's lips quivered and she remained silent for a while , breathing quickly . 
I have seen him , not a long time ago , she said at last . 
The talk is true he is dead . 
What do you want from me , Tuan ? I must go . 
Just then the report of the gun fired on board the steam launch was heard , interrupting Reshid's reply . 
Leaving the girl he ran to the house , and met in the courtyard Abdulla coming towards the gate . 
The Orang Blanda are come , said Reshid , and now we shall have our reward . 
Abdulla shook his head doubtfully . 
The white men's rewards are long in coming , he said . 
White men are quick in anger and slow in gratitude . 
He stood at the gate stroking his grey beard and listening to the distant cries of greeting at the other end of the settlement . 
As Taminah was turning to go he called her back Listen , girl , he said there will be many white men in Almayer's house . 
You shall be there selling your cakes to the men of the sea . 
What you see and what you hear you may tell me . 
Come here before the sun sets and I will give you a blue handkerchief with red spots . 
Now go , and forget not to return . 
He gave her a push with the end of his long staff as she was going away and made her stumble . 
This slave is very slow , he remarked to his nephew , looking after the girl with great disfavour . 
Taminah walked on , her tray on the head , her eyes fixed on the ground . 
Since the very early morning she had heard much , she had also seen much that filled her heart with a joy mingled with great suffering and fear . 
Before the dawn , before she left Bulangi's house to paddle up to Sambir she had heard voices outside the house when all in it but herself were asleep . 
And now , with her knowledge of the words spoken in the darkness , she held in her hand a life and carried in her breast a great sorrow . 
And she knew nothing of it all . 
She lived like the tall palms amongst whom she was passing now , seeking the light , desiring the sunshine , fearing the storm , unconscious of either . 
The slave had no hope , and knew of no change . 
She knew of no other sky , no other water , no other forest , no other world , no other life . 
The absence of pain and hunger was her happiness , and when she felt unhappy she was simply tired , more than usual , after the day's labour . 
Then in the hot nights of the south west monsoon she slept dreamlessly under the bright stars on the platform built outside the house and over the river . 
Inside they slept too Bulangi by the door his wives further in the children with their mothers . 
She could hear their breathing Bulangi's sleepy voice the sharp cry of a child soon hushed with tender words . 
Such had been her existence before the coming of the brig with the strangers . 
She remembered well that time the uproar in the settlement , the never ending wonder , the days and nights of talk and excitement . 
The call on board then became part of her daily round . 
She walked hesitatingly up the slanting planks of the gangway amidst the encouraging shouts and more or less decent jokes of the men idling over the bulwarks . 
There she sold her wares to those men that spoke so loud and carried themselves so free . 
There was a throng , a constant coming and going calls interchanged , orders given and executed with shouts the rattle of blocks , the flinging about of coils of rope . 
She sat out of the way under the shade of the awning , with her tray before her , the veil drawn well over her face , feeling shy amongst so many men . 
She smiled at all buyers , but spoke to none , letting their jests pass with stolid unconcern . 
She heard many tales told around her of far off countries , of strange customs , of events stranger still . 
Those men were brave but the most fearless of them spoke of their chief with fear . 
Then all her life seemed to rush into her eyes , and from under her veil she gazed at him , charmed , yet fearful to attract attention . 
One day he noticed her and asked , Who is that girl ? A slave , Tuan ! A girl that sells cakes , a dozen voices replied together . 
Do not be afraid , he said . 
He never spoke to her any more . 
Somebody called out from the river bank he turned away and forgot her existence . 
Taminah saw Almayer standing on the shore with Nina on his arm . 
She heard Nina's voice calling out gaily , and saw Dain's face brighten with joy as he leaped on shore . 
She hated the sound of that voice ever since . 
After that day she left off visiting Almayer's compound , and passed the noon hours under the shade of the brig awning . 
Then she paddled home slowly in the afternoon , often letting her canoe float with the lazy stream in the quiet backwater of the river . 
Listening to that song she husked the rice at home it dulled her ears to the shrill bickerings of Bulangi's wives , to the sound of angry reproaches addressed to herself . 
And she suffered horribly the first time she saw Nina's long canoe drift silently past the sleeping house of Bulangi , bearing the two lovers into the white mist of the great river . 
Her jealousy and rage culminated into a paroxysm of physical pain that left her lying panting on the river bank , in the dumb agony of a wounded animal . 
She saw Dain many times . 
He never spoke , he never looked . 
Could his eyes see only one woman's image ? Could his ears hear only one woman's voice ? He never noticed her not once . 
And then he went away . 
She dropped back into the torpor of her former life and found consolation even a certain kind of happiness in the thought that now Nina and Dain were separated , probably for ever . 
This thought soothed the last pangs of dying jealousy that had nothing now to feed upon , and Taminah found peace . 
It was like the dreary tranquillity of a desert , where there is peace only because there is no life . 
And now he had returned . 
She had recognised his voice calling aloud in the night for Bulangi . 
She had crept out after her master to listen closer to the intoxicating sound . 
Dain was there , in a boat , talking to Bulangi . 
Taminah , listening with arrested breath , heard another voice . 
Nina spoke now , ordering and entreating in turns , and Bulangi was refusing , expostulating , at last consenting . 
He went in to take a paddle from the heap lying behind the door . 
Outside the murmur of two voices went on , and she caught a word here and there . 
She understood that he was fleeing from white men , that he was seeking a hiding place , that he was in some danger . 
But she heard also words which woke the rage of jealousy that had been asleep for so many days in her bosom . 
She could not cry , she could not move . 
With a slight splash of the paddles dipped stealthily into the water , their indistinct forms passed before her aching eyes and vanished in the darkness of the creek . 
As she approached Sambir she could see the excitement and she heard with momentary surprise of the finding of Dain's body . 
It was not true , of course . 
She regretted that he was not dead . 
She should have liked Dain to be dead , so as to be parted from that woman from all women . 
She felt a strong desire to see Nina , but without any clear object . 
She had seen her many times she had heard her voice daily for many months past . 
The short talk with Reshid , the proposal of Abdulla steadied her a little and turned her thoughts into another channel . 
Dain was in some danger . 
He was hiding from white men . 
So much she had overheard last night . 
They all thought him dead . 
She knew he was alive , and she knew of his hiding place . 
The one eyed Babalatchi who knew everything the white man's wife she was a witch . 
And then there was Nina . 
She must hurry on and see . 
In her impatience she left the path and ran towards Almayer's dwelling through the undergrowth between the palm trees . 
The thick bushes growing on the bank were hiding from her sight the large courtyard with its cooking shed . 
To the left one of Almayer's slave girls came down to the ditch and bent over the shiny water , washing a kettle . 
To the right the tops of the banana plantation , visible above the bushes , swayed and shook under the touch of invisible hands gathering the fruit . 
On the calm water several canoes moored to a heavy stake were crowded together , nearly bridging the ditch just at the place where Taminah stood . 
The slave girl finished her work , and after looking for a while curiously at Taminah , pushed her way through the dense thicket back to the courtyard . 
Round Taminah there was now a complete solitude . 
She threw herself down on the ground , and hid her face in her hands . 
Now when so close she had no courage to see Nina . 
At every burst of louder voices from the courtyard she shivered in the fear of hearing Nina's voice . 
She came to the resolution of waiting where she was till dark , and then going straight to Dain's hiding place . 
From where she was she could watch the movements of white men , of Nina , of all Dain's friends , and of all his enemies . 
Both were hateful alike to her , for both would take him away beyond her reach . 
She hid herself in the long grass to wait anxiously for the sunset that seemed so slow to come . 
On the other side of the ditch , behind the bush , by the clear fires , the seamen of the frigate had encamped on the hospitable invitation of Almayer . 
The lieutenant in command accepted his invitation to his house with the remark that in any case their business was with Almayer and perhaps not very pleasant , he added . 
He shook hands with them absently and led the way towards the house . 
He was scarcely conscious of the polite words of welcome he greeted the strangers with , and afterwards repeated several times over again in his efforts to appear at ease . 
The agitation of their host did not escape the officer's eyes , and the chief confided to his subordinate , in a low voice , his doubts as to Almayer's sobriety . 
The young sub lieutenant laughed and expressed in a whisper the hope that the white man was not intoxicated enough to neglect the offer of some refreshments . 
He does not seem very dangerous , he added , as they followed Almayer up the steps of the verandah . 
No , he seems more of a fool than a knave I have heard of him , returned the senior . 
They sat around the table . 
Ignorant of the fate of the brig he did not suspect the real object of the officer's visit . 
He had a general notion that something must have leaked out about the gunpowder trade , but apprehended nothing beyond some temporary inconveniences . 
After emptying his glass he began to chat easily , lying back in his chair with one of his legs thrown negligently over the arm . 
The young sub lieutenant , leaning with both elbows on the table , his head between his hands , looked on sleepily in the torpor induced by fatigue and the gin . 
Almayer talked on It is a great pleasure to see white faces here . 
I have lived here many years in great solitude . 
The Malays , you understand , are not company for a white man moreover they are not friendly they do not understand our ways . 
I believe I am the only white man on the east coast that is a settled resident . 
We get visitors from Macassar or Singapore sometimes traders , agents , or explorers , but they are rare . 
There was a scientific explorer here a year or more ago . 
He lived in my house drank from morning to night . 
He lived joyously for a few months , and when the liquor he brought with him was gone he returned to Batavia with a report on the mineral wealth of the interior . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Good , is it not ? He ceased abruptly and looked at his guests with a meaningless stare . 
While they laughed he was reciting to himself the old story Dain dead , all my plans destroyed . 
This is the end of all hope and of all things . 
His heart sank within him . 
He felt a kind of deadly sickness . 
Capital ! exclaimed both officers . 
Almayer came out of his despondency with another burst of talk . 
Eh ! what about the dinner ? You have got a cook with you . 
There is a cooking shed in the other courtyard . 
I can give you a goose . 
Look at my geese the only geese on the east coast perhaps on the whole island . 
Is that your cook ? Very good . 
Here , Ali , show this Chinaman the cooking place and tell Mem Almayer to let him have room there . 
My wife , gentlemen , does not come out my daughter may . 
Meantime have some more drink . 
It is a hot day . 
The lieutenant took the cigar out of his mouth , looked at the ash critically , shook it off and turned towards Almayer . 
We have a rather unpleasant business with you , he said . 
I am sorry , returned Almayer . 
It can be nothing very serious , surely . 
If you think an attempt to blow up forty men at least , not a serious matter you will not find many people of your opinion , retorted the officer sharply . 
Blow up ! What ? I know nothing about it exclaimed Almayer . 
Who did that , or tried to do it ? A man with whom you had some dealings , answered the lieutenant . 
He passed here under the name of Dain Maroola . 
You sold him the gunpowder he had in that brig we captured . 
How did you hear about the brig ? asked Almayer . 
I know nothing about the powder he may have had . 
An Arab trader of this place has sent the information about your goings on here to Batavia , a couple of months ago , said the officer . 
We were waiting for the brig outside , but he slipped past us at the mouth of the river , and we had to chase the fellow to the southward . 
When he sighted us he ran inside the reefs and put the brig ashore . 
The crew escaped in boats before we could take possession . 
As our boats neared the craft it blew up with a tremendous explosion one of the boats being too near got swamped . 
Two men drowned that is the result of your speculation , Mr. Almayer . 
Now we want this Dain . 
We have good grounds to suppose he is hiding in Sambir . 
Do you know where he is ? You had better put yourself right with the authorities as much as possible by being perfectly frank with me . 
Where is this Dain ? Almayer got up and walked towards the balustrade of the verandah . 
He seemed not to be thinking of the officer's question . 
He looked at the body laying straight and rigid under its white cover on which the sun , declining amongst the clouds to the westward , threw a pale tinge of red . 
The lieutenant waited for the answer , taking quick pulls at his half extinguished cigar . 
He had almost forgotten how to prepare the table for white men . 
He felt aggrieved Mem Nina would not help him . 
He stepped back to look at his work admiringly , feeling very proud . 
This must be right and if the master afterwards is angry and swears , then so much the worse for Mem Nina . 
Why did she not help ? He left the verandah to fetch the dinner . 
Well , Mr. Almayer , will you answer my question as frankly as it is put to you ? asked the lieutenant , after a long silence . 
Almayer turned round and looked at his interlocutor steadily . 
If you catch this Dain what will you do with him ? he asked . 
This is not an answer , he said , annoyed . 
And what will you do with me ? went on Almayer , not heeding the interruption . 
Are you inclined to bargain ? growled the other . 
It would be bad policy , I assure you . 
At present I have no orders about your person , but we expected your assistance in catching this Malay . 
Ah ! interrupted Almayer , just so you can do nothing without me , and I , knowing the man well , am to help you in finding him . 
This is exactly what we expect , assented the officer . 
You have broken the law , Mr. Almayer , and you ought to make amends . 
And save myself ? Well , in a sense yes . 
Your head is not in any danger , said the lieutenant , with a short laugh . 
Very well , said Almayer , with decision , I shall deliver the man up to you . 
Both officers rose to their feet quickly , and looked for their side arms which they had unbuckled . 
Steady , gentlemen ! he exclaimed . 
In my own time and in my own way . 
After dinner , gentlemen , you shall have him . 
This is preposterous , urged the lieutenant . 
Mr. Almayer , this is no joking matter . 
The man is a criminal . 
While we dine he may escape the rumour of our arrival Almayer walked towards the table . 
I give you my word of honour , gentlemen , that he shall not escape I have him safe enough . 
The arrest should be effected before dark , remarked the young sub . 
I shall hold you responsible for any failure . 
We are ready , but can do nothing just now without you , added the senior , with evident annoyance . 
Almayer made a gesture of assent . 
On my word of honour , he repeated vaguely . 
And now let us dine , he added briskly . 
Allow me , said Almayer , pompously . 
Nina , these gentlemen , officers of the frigate outside , have done me the honour to accept my hospitality . 
Nina answered the low bows of the two officers by a slow inclination of the head and took her place at the table opposite her father . 
The coxswain of the steam launch came up carrying some bottles of wine . 
You will allow me to have this put upon the table ? said the lieutenant to Almayer . 
What ! Wine ! You are very kind . 
Certainly , I have none myself . 
The last words of his reply were spoken by Almayer in a faltering voice . 
The thought that Dain was dead recurred to him vividly again , and he felt as if an invisible hand was gripping his throat . 
He reached for the gin bottle while they were uncorking the wine and swallowed a big gulp . 
The lieutenant , who was speaking to Nina , gave him a quick glance . 
The young sub began to recover from the astonishment and confusion caused by Nina's unexpected appearance and great beauty . 
She was very beautiful and imposing , he reflected , but after all a half caste girl . 
This thought caused him to pluck up heart and look at Nina sideways . 
Nina , with composed face , was answering in a low , even voice the elder officer's polite questions as to the country and her mode of life . 
Almayer pushed his plate away and drank his guest's wine in gloomy silence . 
Who is there here for me to deceive , O Rajah ? answered Babalatchi . 
Without you I am nothing . 
All I have told you I believe to be true . 
I have been safe for many years in the hollow of your hand . 
This is no time to harbour suspicions . 
The danger is very great . 
We should advise and act at once , before the sun sets . 
Right , muttered Lakamba , pensively . 
They were both puzzled and frightened by the unexpected turn the events had taken . 
The Rajah , sitting crosslegged on his chair , looked fixedly at the floor Babalatchi was squatting close by in an attitude of deep dejection . 
And where did you say he is hiding now ? asked Lakamba , breaking at last the silence full of gloomy forebodings in which they both had been lost for a long while . 
In Bulangi's clearing the furthest one , away from the house . 
They went there that very night . 
The white man's daughter took him there . 
She told me so herself , speaking to me openly , for she is half white and has no decency . 
She said she was waiting for him while he was here then , after a long time , he came out of the darkness and fell at her feet exhausted . 
He lay like one dead , but she brought him back to life in her arms , and made him breathe again with her own breath . 
That is what she said , speaking to my face , as I am speaking now to you , Rajah . 
She is like a white woman and knows no shame . 
He paused , deeply shocked . 
Well , and then ? he asked . 
They called the old woman , went on Babalatchi , and he told them all about the brig , and how he tried to kill many men . 
He knew the Orang Blanda were very near , although he had said nothing to us about that he knew his great danger . 
He thought he had killed many , but there were only two dead , as I have heard from the men of the sea that came in the warship's boats . 
And the other man , he that was found in the river ? interrupted Lakamba . 
That was one of his boatmen . 
When his canoe was overturned by the logs those two swam together , but the other man must have been hurt . 
Dain swam , holding him up . 
He left him in the bushes when he went up to the house . 
When they all came down his heart had ceased to beat then the old woman spoke Dain thought it was good . 
He took off his anklet and broke it , twisting it round the man's foot . 
His ring he put on that slave's hand . 
Then Dain and the white woman departed to call up Bulangi and find a hiding place . 
The old woman remained by the body . 
Yes , she has a Devil of her own to whisper counsel in her ear , assented Babalatchi . 
She dragged the body with great toil to the point where many logs were stranded . 
All these things were done in the darkness after the storm had passed away . 
At the first sign of daylight she battered the face of the dead with a heavy stone , and she pushed him amongst the logs . 
She remained near , watching . 
At sunrise Mahmat Banjer came and found him . 
They all believed I myself was deceived , but not for long . 
The white man believed , and , grieving , fled to his house . 
He must not fall into the hands of the Orang Blanda , said Lakamba but let him die , if the thing can be done quietly . 
It cannot , Tuan ! Remember there is that woman who , being half white , is ungovernable , and would raise a great outcry . 
Also the officers are here . 
They are angry enough already . 
Dain must escape he must go . 
We must help him now for our own safety . 
Are the officers very angry ? inquired Lakamba , with interest . 
The principal chief used strong words when speaking to me to me when I salaamed in your name . 
I do not think , added Babalatchi , after a short pause and looking very worried I do not think I saw a white chief so angry before . 
He said we were careless or even worse . 
He told me he would speak to the Rajah , and that I was of no account . 
Speak to the Rajah ! repeated Lakamba , thoughtfully . 
Listen , Babalatchi I am sick , and shall withdraw you cross over and tell the white men . 
Yes , said Babalatchi , I am going over at once and as to Dain ? You get him away as you can best . 
This is a great trouble in my heart , sighed Lakamba . 
Babalatchi got up , and , going close to his master , spoke earnestly . 
There is one of our praus at the southern mouth of the river . 
The Dutch warship is to the northward watching the main entrance . 
I shall send Dain off to night in a canoe , by the hidden channels , on board the prau . 
His father is a great prince , and shall hear of our generosity . 
Let the prau take him to Ampanam . 
Your glory shall be great , and your reward in powerful friendship . 
Almayer will no doubt deliver the dead body as Dain's to the officers , and the foolish white men shall say , 'This is very good let there be peace . 
And the trouble shall be removed from your heart , Rajah . 
True ! true ! said Lakamba . 
And , this being accomplished by me who am your slave , you shall reward with a generous hand . 
That I know ! The white man is grieving for the lost treasure , in the manner of white men who thirst after dollars . 
Now , when all other things are in order , we shall perhaps obtain the treasure from the white man . 
Dain must escape , and Almayer must live . 
Now go , Babalatchi , go ! said Lakamba , getting off his chair . 
I am very sick , and want medicine . 
Tell the white chief so . 
But Babalatchi was not to be got rid of in this summary manner . 
Babalatchi wanted a big canoe manned by twelve men to be sent out after dark towards Bulangi's clearing . 
Dain may have to be overpowered . 
Would the Rajah see that trusty men manned the canoe ? The thing must be done secretly . 
Perhaps the Rajah would come himself , so as to bring all the weight of his authority to bear upon Dain if he should prove obstinate and refuse to leave his hiding place . 
The Rajah would not commit himself to a definite promise , and anxiously pressed Babalatchi to go , being afraid of the white men paying him an unexpected visit . 
The aged statesman reluctantly took his leave and went into the courtyard . 
A dark shadow ran along the river , rolling over and covering up the sparkle of declining sunlight . 
A big white cloud sailed slowly across the darkening sky , and hung to the westward as if waiting for the sun to join it there . 
Men and things shook off the torpor of the hot afternoon and stirred into life under the first breath of the sea breeze . 
He had to deal with a man more dangerous than any wild beast of his experience a proud man , a man wilful after the manner of princes , a man in love . 
And he was going forth to speak to that man words of cold and worldly wisdom . 
And underlying the horror of this situation there was the danger of those meddlesome fools , the white men . 
A vision of comfortless exile in far off Madura rose up before Babalatchi . 
Wouldn't that be worse than death itself ? And there was that half white woman with threatening eyes . 
How could he tell what an incomprehensible creature of that sort would or would not do ? She knew so much that she made the killing of Dain an impossibility . 
Young women , of course . 
For Mrs. Almayer's mature wisdom , and for the easy aptitude in intrigue that comes with years to the feminine mind , he felt the most sincere respect . 
He paddled leisurely , letting the canoe drift down as he crossed towards the point . 
The sun was high yet , and nothing pressed . 
His work would commence only with the coming of darkness . 
Avoiding the Lingard jetty , he rounded the point , and paddled up the creek at the back of Almayer's house . 
There were many canoes lying there , their noses all drawn together , fastened all to the same stake . 
Babalatchi pushed his little craft in amongst them and stepped on shore . 
On the other side of the ditch something moved in the grass . 
Who's that hiding ? hailed Babalatchi . 
Come out and speak to me . 
Babalatchi crossed over , passing from boat to boat , and poked his staff viciously in the suspicious place . 
Taminah jumped up with a cry . 
What are you doing here ? he asked , surprised . 
I have nearly stepped on your tray . 
Am I a Dyak that you should hide at my sight ? I was weary , and I slept , whispered Taminah , confusedly . 
You slept ! You have not sold anything to day , and you will be beaten when you return home , said Babalatchi . 
Taminah stood before him abashed and silent . 
Babalatchi looked her over carefully with great satisfaction . 
Decidedly he would offer fifty dollars more to that thief Bulangi . 
It is late , he said sharply . 
Tell Bulangi that I shall be near his house before the night is half over , and that I want him to make all things ready for a long journey . 
You understand ? A long journey to the southward . 
Tell him that before sunset , and do not forget my words . 
Taminah made a gesture of assent , and watched Babalatchi recross the ditch and disappear through the bushes bordering Almayer's compound . 
She moved a little further off the creek and sank in the grass again , lying down on her face , shivering in dry eyed misery . 
Babalatchi walked straight towards the cooking shed looking for Mrs. Almayer . 
The courtyard was in a great uproar . 
A strange Chinaman had possession of the kitchen fire and was noisily demanding another saucepan . 
He hurled objurgations , in the Canton dialect and bad Malay , against the group of slave girls standing a little way off , half frightened , half amused , at his violence . 
From the camping fires round which the seamen of the frigate were sitting came words of encouragement , mingled with laughter and jeering . 
In the midst of this noise and confusion Babalatchi met Ali , an empty dish in his hand . 
Where are the white men ? asked Babalatchi . 
They are eating in the front verandah , answered Ali . 
Do not stop me , Tuan . 
I am giving the white men their food and am busy . 
Where's Mem Almayer ? Inside in the passage . 
She is listening to the talk . 
Ali grinned and passed on Babalatchi ascended the plankway to the rear verandah , and beckoning out Mrs. Almayer , engaged her in earnest conversation . 
He has , whispered Babalatchi . 
He will sleep heavily to night . 
But then he does not hear , nor understand , and his hand , of course , has no strength . 
We do not want him to hear to night . 
No , assented Mrs. Almayer , energetically , but in a cautiously subdued voice . 
If he hears he will kill . 
Hai Tuan , you may believe me . 
Have I not lived many years with that man ? Have I not seen death in that man's eyes more than once when I was younger and he guessed at many things . 
What do we fear ? repeated Babalatchi again . 
To keep the daughter whom he loves he would strike into your heart and mine without hesitation , said Mrs. Almayer . 
When the girl is gone he will be like the devil unchained . 
Then you and I had better beware . 
I am an old man and fear not death , answered Babalatchi , with a mendacious assumption of indifference . 
But what will you do ? I am an old woman , and wish to live , retorted Mrs. Almayer . 
She is my daughter also . 
I shall seek safety at the feet of our Rajah , speaking in the name of the past when we both were young , and he Babalatchi raised his hand . 
You shall be protected , he said soothingly . 
At last the quarrelsome shouting ceased , and the thin plaint of disturbed glass died away into reluctant quietude . 
Babalatchi and Mrs. Almayer had listened curiously , their bodies bent and their ears turned towards the passage . 
At every louder shout they nodded at each other with a ridiculous affectation of scandalised propriety , and they remained in the same attitude for some time after the noise had ceased . 
This is the devil of gin , whispered Mrs. Almayer . 
Yes he talks like that sometimes when there is nobody to hear him . 
What does he say ? inquired Babalatchi , eagerly . 
I have forgotten their talk . 
He spoke without any respect of the white ruler in Batavia , and of protection , and said he had been wronged he said that several times . 
More I did not understand . 
Listen ! Again he speaks ! Tse ! tse ! tse ! clicked Babalatchi , trying to appear shocked , but with a joyous twinkle of his solitary eye . 
There will be great trouble between those white men . 
I will go round now and see . 
You tell your daughter that there is a sudden and a long journey before her , with much glory and splendour at the end . 
And tell her that Dain must go , or he must die , and that he will not go alone . 
On the highest step he sat down quietly , his feet on the steps below , ready for flight should his presence prove unwelcome . 
He felt pretty safe so . 
disloyalty and unscrupulousness ! What have you ever done to make me loyal ? You have no grip on this country . 
I had to take care of myself , and when I asked for protection I was met with threats and contempt , and had Arab slander thrown in my face . 
I ! a white man ! Don't be violent , Almayer , remonstrated the lieutenant I have heard all this already . 
Then why do you talk to me about scruples ? I wanted money , and I gave powder in exchange . 
No more wine , he muttered discontentedly . 
You have had enough , Almayer , said the lieutenant , as he lighted a cigar . 
Is it not time to deliver to us your prisoner ? I take it you have that Dain Maroola stowed away safely somewhere . 
Still we had better get that business over , and then we shall have more drink . 
Come ! don't look at me like this . 
Almayer was staring with stony eyes , his trembling fingers fumbling about his throat . 
Gold , he said with difficulty . 
Hem ! A hand on the windpipe , you know . 
I wanted to say a little gold for a little powder . 
What's that ? I know , I know , said the lieutenant soothingly . 
No ! You don't know . 
Not one of you knows ! shouted Almayer . 
The government is a fool , I tell you . 
I am the man that knows I and another one . 
He is He checked himself with a feeble smile , and , making an unsuccessful attempt to pat the officer on the shoulder , knocked over a couple of empty bottles . 
Personally you are a fine fellow , he said very distinctly , in a patronising manner . 
His head nodded drowsily as he sat muttering to himself . 
The two officers looked at each other helplessly . 
This won't do , said the lieutenant , addressing his junior . 
Have the men mustered in the compound here . 
I must get some sense out of him . 
Hi ! Almayer ! Wake up , man . 
You gave your word of honour , you know . 
Almayer shook off the officer's hand with impatience , but his ill humour vanished at once , and he looked up , putting his forefinger to the side of his nose . 
You are very young there is time for all things , he said , with an air of great sagacity . 
The lieutenant turned towards Nina , who , leaning back in her chair , watched her father steadily . 
Really I am very much distressed by all this for your sake , he exclaimed . 
He observed with discouragement that she seemed not to take any notice of what he said sitting still with half closed eyes . 
I trust he began again . 
What is the promise you speak of ? abruptly asked Nina , leaving her seat and moving towards her father . 
Nothing that is not just and proper . 
He promised to deliver to us a man who in time of profound peace took the lives of innocent men to escape the punishment he deserved for breaking the law . 
He planned his mischief on a large scale . 
It is not his fault if it failed , partially . 
Of course you have heard of Dain Maroola . 
Your father secured him , I understand . 
We know he escaped up this river . 
Perhaps you And he killed white men ! interrupted Nina . 
I regret to say they were white . 
Yes , two white men lost their lives through that scoundrel's freak . 
Two only ! exclaimed Nina . 
The officer looked at her in amazement . 
Why ! why ! You he stammered , confused . 
There might have been more , interrupted Nina . 
And when you get this this scoundrel will you go ? The lieutenant , still speechless , bowed his assent . 
Then I would get him for you if I had to seek him in a burning fire , she burst out with intense energy . 
I hate the sight of your white faces . 
I hate the sound of your gentle voices . 
That is the way you speak to women , dropping sweet words before any pretty face . 
I have heard your voices before . 
I hoped to live here without seeing any other white face but this , she added in a gentler tone , touching lightly her father's cheek . 
Almayer ceased his mumbling and opened his eyes . 
Below , in front of the verandah , they could hear the tramp of seamen mustering there according to orders . 
The sub lieutenant came up the steps , while Babalatchi stood up uneasily and , with finger on lip , tried to catch Nina's eye . 
You are a good girl , whispered Almayer , absently , dropping his daughter's hand . 
Father ! father ! she cried , bending over him with passionate entreaty . 
See those two men looking at us . 
I cannot bear it any more . 
Do what they want and let them go . 
She caught sight of Babalatchi and ceased speaking suddenly , but her foot tapped the floor with rapid beats in a paroxysm of nervous restlessness . 
The two officers stood close together looking on curiously . 
What has happened ? What is the matter ? whispered the younger man . 
Don't know , answered the other , under his breath . 
One is furious , and the other is drunk . 
Not so drunk , either . 
Look ! Almayer had risen , holding on to his daughter's arm . 
He hesitated a moment , then he let go his hold and lurched half way across the verandah . 
There he pulled himself together , and stood very straight , breathing hard and glaring round angrily . 
Are the men ready ? asked the lieutenant . 
Now , Mr. Almayer , lead the way , said the lieutenant Almayer rested his eyes on him as if he saw him for the first time . 
Two men , he said thickly . 
The effort of speaking seemed to interfere with his equilibrium . 
He took a quick step to save himself from a fall , and remained swaying backwards and forwards . 
Two men , he began again , speaking with difficulty . 
Two white men men in uniform honourable men . 
I want to say men of honour . 
Are you ? Come ! None of that , said the officer impatiently . 
Let us have that friend of yours . 
What do you think I am ? asked Almayer , fiercely . 
You are drunk , but not so drunk as not to know what you are doing . 
Enough of this tomfoolery , said the officer sternly , or I will have you put under arrest in your own house . 
Arrest ! laughed Almayer , discordantly . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! Arrest ! Why , I have been trying to get out of this infernal place for twenty years , and I can't . 
You hear , man ! I can't , and never shall ! Never ! He ended his words with a sob , and walked unsteadily down the stairs . 
When in the courtyard the lieutenant approached him , and took him by the arm . 
The sub lieutenant and Babalatchi followed close . 
That's better , Almayer , said the officer encouragingly . 
Where are you going to ? There are only planks there . 
Here , he went on , shaking him slightly , do we want the boats ? No , answered Almayer , viciously . 
What ? Wild again ! Try to talk sense . 
Grave ! roared Almayer , struggling to get himself free . 
A hole in the ground . 
Don't you understand ? You must be drunk . 
The trunks of the trees in the forest on the east bank were lost in gloom while their highest branches swayed gently in the departing sunlight . 
The air felt heavy and cold in the breeze , expiring in slight puffs that came over the water . 
Almayer shivered as he made an effort to speak , and again with an uncertain gesture he seemed to free his throat from the grip of an invisible hand . 
His bloodshot eyes wandered aimlessly from face to face . 
There ! he said at last . 
Are you all there ? He is a dangerous man . 
He dragged at the cover with hasty violence , and the body rolled stiffly off the planks and fell at his feet in rigid helplessness . 
Cold , perfectly cold , said Almayer , looking round with a mirthless smile . 
Sorry can do no better . 
And you can't hang him , either . 
As you observe , gentlemen , he added gravely , there is no head , and hardly any neck . 
This is Dain , went on Almayer to the silent group that surrounded him . 
And I have kept my word . 
First one hope , then another , and this is my last . 
You think there is one dead man here ? Mistake , I 'sure you . 
I am much more dead . 
Why don't you hang me ? he suggested suddenly , in a friendly tone , addressing the lieutenant . 
I assure , assure you it would be a mat matter of form altog altogether . 
These last words he muttered to himself , and walked zigzaging towards his house . 
Get out ! he thundered at Ali , who was approaching timidly with offers of assistance . 
From afar , scared groups of men and women watched his devious progress . 
He dragged himself up the stairs by the banister , and managed to reach a chair into which he fell heavily . 
He muttered yet menacingly to himself , then his head fell on his breast , his eyes closed , and with a deep sigh he fell asleep . 
That night for the first time in its history the peaceful and flourishing settlement of Sambir saw the lights shining about Almayer's Folly . 
Babalatchi had regained all his importance . 
He was eloquent and persuasive , calling Heaven and Earth to witness the truth of his statements . 
There were also other witnesses . 
Mahmat Banjer and a good many others underwent a close examination that dragged its weary length far into the evening . 
A messenger was sent for Abdulla , who excused himself from coming on the score of his venerable age , but sent Reshid . 
Babalatchi's ring was also impounded for the same purpose , but the experienced statesman was resigned to that loss from the very beginning . 
He did not mind as long as he was sure , that the white men believed . 
He put that question to himself earnestly as he left , one of the last , when the proceedings came to a close . 
Still , if they believed only for a night , he would put Dain beyond their reach and feel safe himself . 
He walked away fast , looking from time to time over his shoulder in the fear of being followed , but he saw and heard nothing . 
Ten o'clock , said the lieutenant , looking at his watch and yawning . 
I shall hear some of the captain's complimentary remarks when we get back . 
Do you think all this is true ? asked the younger man . 
True ! It is just possible . 
But if it isn't true what can we do ? If we had a dozen boats we could patrol the creeks and that wouldn't be much good . 
That drunken madman was right we haven't enough hold on this coast . 
They do what they like . 
Are our hammocks slung ? Yes , I told the coxswain . 
Strange couple over there , said the sub , with a wave of his hand towards Almayer's house . 
Hem ! Queer , certainly . 
What have you been telling her ? I was attending to the father most of the time . 
I assure you I have been perfectly civil , protested the other warmly . 
She objects to civility , then , from what I understand . 
I thought you might have been tender . 
You know we are on service . 
They both laughed a little , and not feeling sleepy began to pace the verandah side by side . 
The moon rose stealthily above the trees , and suddenly changed the river into a stream of scintillating silver . 
The forest came out of the black void and stood sombre and pensive over the sparkling water . 
The breeze died away into a breathless calm . 
Seamanlike , the two officers tramped measuredly up and down without exchanging a word . 
The loose planks rattled rhythmically under their steps with obstrusive dry sound in the perfect silence of the night . 
As they were wheeling round again the younger man stood attentive . 
Did you hear that ? he asked . 
No ! said the other . 
Hear what ? I thought I heard a cry . 
Ah ! Again ! Hear it ? No , said the lieutenant , after listening awhile . 
You young fellows always hear women's voices . 
If you are going to dream you had better get into your hammock . 
The moon mounted higher , and the warm shadows grew smaller and crept away as if hiding before the cold and cruel light . 
CHAPTER X. It has set at last , said Nina to her mother pointing towards the hills behind which the sun had sunk . 
He was waiting ! In the solitude of the secluded clearing , in the vast silence of the forest he was waiting alone , a fugitive in fear of his life . 
Indifferent to his danger he was waiting for her . 
He should have his reward . 
Her woman's love and her woman's honour overcame the faltering distrust of that unknown future waiting for her in the darkness of the river . 
No , you will not return , muttered Mrs. Almayer , prophetically . 
Without you he will not go , and if he remains here She waved her hand towards the lights of Almayer's Folly , and the unfinished sentence died out in a threatening murmur . 
The two women had met behind the house , and now were walking slowly together towards the creek where all the canoes were moored . 
What have I been ? A slave all my life , and I have cooked rice for a man who had no courage and no wisdom . 
Hai ! I ! even I , was given in gift by a chief and a warrior to a man that was neither . 
Hai ! Hai ! She wailed to herself softly , lamenting the lost possibilities of murder and mischief that could have fallen to her lot had she been mated with a congenial spirit . 
I was a slave , and you shall be a queen , went on Mrs. Almayer , looking straight before her but remember men's strength and their weakness . 
Tremble before his anger , so that he may see your fear in the light of day but in your heart you may laugh , for after sunset he is your slave . 
A slave ! He ! The master of life ! You do not know him , mother . 
Mrs. Almayer condescended to laugh contemptuously . 
You speak like a fool of a white woman , she exclaimed . 
If I was white would I stand here , ready to go ? Mother , I shall return to the house and look once more at my father's face . 
No ! said Mrs. Almayer , violently . 
No , he sleeps now the sleep of gin and if you went back he might awake and see you . 
No , he shall never see you . 
When the terrible old man took you away from me when you were little , you remember It was such a long time ago , murmured Nina . 
I remember , went on Mrs. Almayer , fiercely . 
I wanted to look at your face again . 
He said no ! I heard you cry and jumped into the river . 
You were his daughter then you are my daughter now . 
Never shall you go back to that house you shall never cross this courtyard again . 
No ! no ! Her voice rose almost to a shout . 
On the other side of the creek there was a rustle in the long grass . 
The two women heard it , and listened for a while in startled silence . 
I shall go , said Nina , in a cautious but intense whisper . 
What is your hate or your revenge to me ? She moved towards the house , Mrs. Almayer clinging to her and trying to pull her back . 
Stop , you shall not go ! she gasped . 
Nina pushed away her mother impatiently and gathered up her skirts for a quick run , but Mrs. Almayer ran forward and turned round , facing her daughter with outstretched arms . 
If you move another step , she exclaimed , breathing quickly , I shall cry out . 
Do you see those lights in the big house ? There sit two white men , angry because they cannot have the blood of the man you love . 
She could not see her daughter's face , but the white figure before her stood silent and irresolute in the darkness . 
Mrs. Almayer pursued her advantage . 
Give up your old life ! Forget ! she said in entreating tones . 
Forget that you ever looked at a white face forget their words forget their thoughts . 
And they think lies because they despise us that are better than they are , but not so strong . 
Forget their friendship and their contempt forget their many gods . 
But she did not wish it now . 
At the bottom of that passing desire to look again at her father's face there was no strong affection . 
She felt no scruples and no remorse at leaving suddenly that man whose sentiment towards herself she could not understand , she could not even see . 
For years she had stood between her mother and her father , the one so strong in her weakness , the other so weak where he could have been strong . 
Between those two beings so dissimilar , so antagonistic , she stood with mute heart wondering and angry at the fact of her own existence . 
Mrs. Almayer unmoored Nina's own canoe and , straightening herself painfully , stood , painter in hand , looking at her daughter . 
Quick , she said get away before the moon rises , while the river is dark . 
I am afraid of Abdulla's slaves . 
The wretches prowl in the night often , and might see and follow you . 
There are two paddles in the canoe . 
Nina approached her mother and hesitatingly touched lightly with her lips the wrinkled forehead . 
Mrs. Almayer snorted contemptuously in protest against that tenderness which she , nevertheless , feared could be contagious . 
Shall I ever see you again , mother ? murmured Nina . 
No , said Mrs. Almayer , after a short silence . 
Why should you return here where it is my fate to die ? You will live far away in splendour and might . 
When I hear of white men driven from the islands , then I shall know that you are alive , and that you remember my words . 
And if he lingers , give him his kriss yourself and bid him go , as the wife of a mighty prince should do when the enemies are near . 
Let him slay the white men that come to us to trade , with prayers on their lips and loaded guns in their hands . 
Nina put the point of the paddle against the bank , ready to shove off into the stream . 
What is it , mother ? she asked , in a low voice . 
Do you hear anything ? No , said Mrs. Almayer , absently . 
Mrs. Almayer fell on her knees on the bank and leaned over the gunwale so as to bring her own face close to her daughter's . 
Hide your anger , and do not let him see on your face the pain that will eat your heart . 
Meet him with joy in your eyes and wisdom on your lips , for to you he will turn in sadness or in doubt . 
Do not speak so , mother it could not be . 
Then , went on Mrs. Almayer , steadily , to that woman , Nina , show no mercy . 
She moved the canoe down towards the stream by the gunwale , and gripped it with both her hands , the bow pointing into the river . 
Are you crying ? she asked sternly of her daughter , who sat still with covered face . 
Arise , and take your paddle , for he has waited long enough . 
And remember , Nina , no mercy and if you must strike , strike with a steady hand . 
She put out all her strength , and swinging her body over the water , shot the light craft far into the stream . 
After listening for a while intently on her knees , Mrs. Almayer rose with a deep sigh , while two tears wandered slowly down her withered cheeks . 
Who is there ? she asked , in an unsteady voice , while her imagination peopled the solitude of the riverside with ghost like forms . 
Who is there ? she repeated faintly . 
Mrs. Almayer shook her head as if in answer to her own thoughts , and walked quickly away from the bushes , looking to the right and left watchfully . 
As she approached , Babalatchi , who had been squatting in the warm glow , rose and met her in the shadow outside . 
Is she gone ? asked the anxious statesman , hastily . 
Yes , answered Mrs. Almayer . 
What are the white men doing ? When did you leave them ? They are sleeping now , I think . 
May they never wake ! exclaimed Babalatchi , fervently . 
Oh ! but they are devils , and made much talk and trouble over that carcase . 
The chief threatened me twice with his hand , and said he would have me tied up to a tree . 
Tie me up to a tree ! Me ! he repeated , striking his breast violently . 
And you salaamed and asked for mercy . 
Men with arms by their side acted otherwise when I was young . 
And where are they , the men of your youth ? You mad woman ! retorted Babalatchi , angrily . 
Aha ! But I shall live to deceive them . 
A man knows when to fight and when to tell peaceful lies . 
You would know that if you were not a woman . 
But Mrs. Almayer did not seem to hear him . 
With bent body and outstretched arm she appeared to be listening to some noise behind the shed . 
There are strange sounds , she whispered , with evident alarm . 
I have heard in the air the sounds of grief , as of a sigh and weeping . 
That was by the riverside . 
And now again I heard Where ? asked Babalatchi , in an altered voice . 
What did you hear ? Close here . 
It was like a breath long drawn . 
I wish I had burnt the paper over the body before it was buried . 
But the white men had him thrown into a hole at once . 
You know he found his death on the river , he added cheerfully , and his ghost may hail the canoes , but would leave the land alone . 
Mrs. Almayer , who had been craning her neck to look round the corner of the shed , drew back her head . 
There is nobody there , she said , reassured . 
Is it not time for the Rajah war canoe to go to the clearing ? I have been waiting for it here , for I myself must go , explained Babalatchi . 
I think I will go over and see what makes them late . 
When will you come ? The Rajah gives you refuge . 
I shall paddle over before the break of day . 
I cannot leave my dollars behind , muttered Mrs. Almayer . 
Mrs. Almayer lighted the cocoanut lamp , and lifting cautiously the red curtain , gazed upon her husband , shading the light with her hand . 
At his feet lay the overturned table , amongst a wreck of crockery and broken bottles . 
Only Nina's big rocking chair , standing black and motionless on its high runners , towered above the chaos of demoralised furniture , unflinchingly dignified and patient , waiting for its burden . 
With a last scornful look towards the sleeper , Mrs. Almayer passed behind the curtain into her own room . 
Almayer's head rolled from shoulder to shoulder in the oppression of his dream the heavens had descended upon him like a heavy mantle , and trailed in starred folds far under him . 
And what were the voices saying ? Urging him to move ! Why ? Move to destruction ! Not likely ! The absurdity of the thing filled him with indignation . 
He got a firmer foothold and stiffened his muscles in heroic resolve to carry his burden to all eternity . 
With terror he felt an irresistible hand shaking him by the shoulder , while the chorus of voices swelled louder into an agonised prayer to go , go before it is too late . 
He felt himself slipping , losing his balance , as something dragged at his legs , and he fell . 
With a faint cry he glided out of the anguish of perishing creation into an imperfect waking that seemed to be still under the spell of his dream . 
What ? What ? he murmured sleepily , without moving or opening his eyes . 
His head still felt heavy , and he had not the courage to raise his eyelids . 
In his ears there still lingered the sound of entreating whisper . 
Am I awake ? Why do I hear the voices ? he argued to himself , hazily . 
I cannot get rid of the horrible nightmare yet . 
I have been very drunk . 
What is that shaking me ? I am dreaming yet I must open my eyes and be done with it . 
I am only half awake , it is evident . 
He made an effort to shake off his stupor and saw a face close to his , glaring at him with staring eyeballs . 
He closed his eyes again in amazed horror and sat up straight in the chair , trembling in every limb . 
What was this apparition ? His own fancy , no doubt . 
His nerves had been much tried the day before and then the drink ! He would not see it again if he had the courage to look . 
Get a little steadier first . 
The shadowy woman seemed to shrink and recede a little from him towards the doorway , and there was a shriek . 
Exasperated by the incomprehensible nature of his torment , Almayer made a rush upon the apparition , which eluded his grasp , and he brought up heavily against the wall . 
Quick as lightning he turned round and pursued fiercely the mysterious figure fleeing from him with piercing shrieks that were like fuel to the flames of his anger . 
Over the furniture , round the overturned table , and now he had it cornered behind Nina's chair . 
Oh ! the fiendish noise that split his head and seemed to choke his breath . 
The last shriek died out under him in a faint gurgle , and he had secured the relief of absolute silence . 
He looked at the woman's face under him . 
A real woman ! He knew her . 
By all that is wonderful ! Taminah ! He jumped up ashamed of his fury and stood perplexed , wiping his forehead . 
The girl struggled to a kneeling posture and embraced his legs in a frenzied prayer for mercy . 
Don't be afraid , he said , raising her . 
I shall not hurt you . 
There are no women in your house any more , Tuan . 
I saw the old Mem go away before I tried to wake you . 
I did not want your women , I wanted you . 
Old Mem ! repeated Almayer . 
Do you mean my wife ? She nodded her head . 
But of my daughter you are not afraid ? said Almayer . 
Have you not heard me ? she exclaimed . 
Have I not spoken for a long time when you lay there with eyes half open ? She is gone too . 
Can you not tell when a man is sleeping and when awake ? Sometimes , answered Taminah in a low voice sometimes the spirit lingers close to a sleeping body and may hear . 
I spoke a long time before I touched you , and I spoke softly for fear it would depart at a sudden noise and leave you sleeping for ever . 
I took you by the shoulder only when you began to mutter words I could not understand . 
Have you not heard , then , and do you know nothing ? Nothing of what you said . 
What is it ? Tell again if you want me to know . 
He took her by the shoulder and led her unresisting to the front of the verandah into a stronger light . 
She wrung her hands with such an appearance of grief that he began to be alarmed . 
You made noise enough to wake even dead men . 
And yet nobody living came , he added to himself in an uneasy whisper . 
Are you mute ? Speak ! he repeated . 
In a rush of words which broke out after a short struggle from her trembling lips she told him the tale of Nina's love and her own jealousy . 
For so many years ! So many years ! And now to the accompaniment of that murmur he listened to the slow and painful beating of his heart . 
He listened attentively , wondering at the regularity of its beats . 
He began to count mechanically . 
Why count ? At the next beat it must stop . 
No heart could suffer so and beat so steadily for long . 
Those regular strokes as of a muffled hammer that rang in his ears must stop soon . 
Still beating unceasing and cruel . 
Was her revenge to fail her ? This white man was like a senseless stone . 
Too late ! Too late ! And you saw her go ? Almayer's voice sounded harshly above her head . 
Did I not tell you ? she sobbed , trying to wriggle gently out from under his grip . 
Did I not tell you that I saw the witchwoman push the canoe ? I lay hidden in the grass and heard all the words . 
And she obeyed , she shouted out in a half laugh , half cry of pain . 
Let me go , Tuan . 
Why are you angry with me ? Hasten , or you shall be too late to show your anger to the deceitful woman . 
Almayer dragged her up to her feet and looked close into her face while she struggled , turning her head away from his wild stare . 
Who sent you here to torment me ? he asked , violently . 
I do not believe you . 
Oh ! Nina ! whispered Almayer , in a voice in which reproach and love spoke together in pained tenderness . 
Oh ! Nina ! I do not believe . 
The curtain in the women's doorway blew out and instantly collapsed with startling helplessness . 
He stared at the fluttering stuff . 
Where are you , Nina ? The wind passed out of the empty house in a tremulous sigh , and all was still . 
Almayer hid his face in his hands as if to shut out a loathsome sight . 
When , hearing a slight rustle , he uncovered his eyes , the dark heap by the door was gone . 
The pathway ended at the foot of the piles on which the hut was built , in a circular space covered with ashes and bits of burnt wood . 
In the middle of that space , by the dim fire , lay Dain . 
He turned over on his side with an impatient sigh , and , pillowing his head on his bent arm , lay quietly with his face to the dying fire . 
His body was weary with the exertion of the past few days , his mind more weary still with the strain of solitary waiting for his fate . 
Never before had he felt so helpless . 
He had heard the report of the gun fired on board the launch , and he knew that his life was in untrustworthy hands , and that his enemies were very near . 
He feared not death , yet he desired ardently to live , for life to him was Nina . 
She had promised to come , to follow him , to share his danger and his splendour . 
But with her by his side he cared not for danger , and without her there could be no splendour and no joy in existence . 
With eyes shut tight , his teeth hard set , he tried in a great effort of passionate will to keep his hold on that vision of supreme delight . 
Startled by the vividness of his fancy , he would open his eyes , and , leaping out into the sunlight , resume his aimless wanderings around the clearing . 
As he bent down to look through he heard angry grunting , and a sounder of wild pig crashed away in the undergrowth . 
The very air seemed dead in there heavy and stagnating , poisoned with the corruption of countless ages . 
He went on , staggering on his way , urged by the nervous restlessness that made him feel tired yet caused him to loathe the very idea of immobility and repose . 
He knew how a Malay chief should die . 
They would come from there . 
In imagination he saw them now . 
He saw the bearded faces and the white jackets of the officers , the light on the levelled barrels of the rifles . 
He would speak friendly words come nearer yet yet nearer so near that they could touch him with their hands and stretch them out to make him a captive . 
He lay as if stunned in the sudden reaction from his exaltation , thinking that , even if he died thus gloriously , it would have to be before he saw Nina . 
If he saw her again he felt that death would be too terrible . 
With horror he , the descendant of Rajahs and of conquerors , had to face the doubt of his own bravery . 
His desire of life tormented him in a paroxysm of agonising remorse . 
He had not the courage to stir a limb . 
He had lost faith in himself , and there was nothing else in him of what makes a man . 
The suffering remained , for it is ordered that it should abide in the human body even to the last breath , and fear remained . 
Dimly he could look into the depths of his passionate love , see its strength and its weakness , and felt afraid . 
The sun went down slowly . 
The sun lingered for a while amongst the light tracery of the higher branches , as if in friendly reluctance to abandon the body stretched in the green paddy field . 
Then Dain , revived by the cool of the evening breeze , sat up and stared round him . 
Dain walked slowly towards the creek , and , divesting himself of his torn sarong , his only garment , entered the water cautiously . 
He had had nothing to eat that day , and had not dared show himself in daylight by the water side to drink . 
Now , as he swam silently , he swallowed a few mouthfuls of water that lapped about his lips . 
This did him good , and he walked with greater confidence in himself and others as he returned towards the fire . 
Had he been betrayed by Lakamba all would have been over by this . 
He made up a big blaze , and while it lasted dried himself , and then lay down by the embers . 
He could not sleep , but he felt a great numbness in all his limbs . 
Dreamily he assured himself over and over again that she would come , till the certitude crept into his heart and filled him with a great peace . 
Yes , when the next day broke , they would be together on the great blue sea that was like life away from the forests that were like death . 
A chorus of loud roars and plaintive calls rose from the mud along the line of bushes . 
He laughed heartily doubtless it was their love song . 
He felt affectionate towards the frogs and listened , pleased with the noisy life near him . 
When the moon peeped above the trees he felt the old impatience and the old restlessness steal over him . 
Why was she so late ? True , it was a long way to come with a single paddle . 
Wonderful ! He lost himself lovingly in the contemplation of this tremendous mystery , and when he looked at the moon again it had risen a hand's breadth above the trees . 
Would she come ? He forced himself to lay still , overcoming the impulse to rise and rush round the clearing again . 
He turned this way and that at last , quivering with the effort , he lay on his back , and saw her face among the stars looking down on him . 
The croaking of frogs suddenly ceased . 
With the watchfulness of a hunted man Dain sat up , listening anxiously , and heard several splashes in the water as the frogs took rapid headers into the creek . 
He knew that they had been alarmed by something , and stood up suspicious and attentive . 
A slight grating noise , then the dry sound as of two pieces of wood struck against each other . 
Somebody was about to land ! He took up an armful of brushwood , and , without taking his eyes from the path , held it over the embers of his fire . 
He waited , undecided , and saw something gleam amongst the bushes then a white figure came out of the shadows and seemed to float towards him in the pale light . 
His heart gave a great leap and stood still , then went on shaking his frame in furious beats . 
He was regaining his senses in a slight tremor that ran upwards along his rigid body and hung about his trembling lips . 
It has the same meaning for the man of the forests and the sea as for the man threading the paths of the more dangerous wilderness of houses and streets . 
They wish to live under that look for ever . 
It is the look of woman's surrender . 
Never before had he felt so proud as now , when at the feet of that woman that half belonged to his enemies . 
Her fingers played with his hair in an absent minded caress as she stood absorbed in thought . 
The man was her slave . 
As she glanced down at his kneeling form she felt a great pitying tenderness for that man she was used to call even in her thoughts the master of life . 
She lifted her eyes and looked sadly at the southern heavens under which lay the path of their lives her own , and that man's at her feet . 
A very woman ! In the sublime vanity of her kind she was thinking already of moulding a god from the clay at her feet . 
A god for others to worship . 
She was content to see him as he was now , and to feel him quiver at the slightest touch of her light fingers . 
And while her eyes looked sadly at the southern stars a faint smile seemed to be playing about her firm lips . 
He was hers with all his qualities and all his faults . 
His strength and his courage , his recklessness and his daring , his simple wisdom and his savage cunning all were hers . 
With a rhythmical swing of their bodies they walked through the light towards the outlying shadows of the forests that seemed to guard their happiness in solemn immobility . 
They walked slowly back to the fire . 
Their voices rose and fell , tender or animated as they spoke of their love and of their future . 
He spoke to her of his own island , where the gloomy forests and the muddy rivers were unknown . 
He spoke of vast horizons swept by fierce winds that whistled high above the summits of burning mountains . 
He spoke of his forefathers that conquered ages ago the island of which he was to be the future ruler . 
While he talked , Nina's head had been gradually sinking lower , and her face almost touched his now . 
Her hair was over his eyes , her breath was on his forehead , her arms were about his body . 
Over their heads a film of dark , thread like clouds , looking like immense cobwebs drifting under the stars , darkened the sky with the presage of the coming thunderstorm . 
From the invisible hills the first distant rumble of thunder came in a prolonged roll which , after tossing about from hill to hill , lost itself in the forests of the Pantai . 
Dain and Nina stood up , and the former looked at the sky uneasily . 
It is time for Babalatchi to be here , he said . 
The night is more than half gone . 
Our road is long , and a bullet travels quicker than the best canoe . 
He will be here before the moon is hidden behind the clouds , said Nina . 
I heard a splash in the water , she added . 
Did you hear it too ? Alligator , answered Dain shortly , with a careless glance towards the creek . 
Dain , interposed Nina , earnestly , it was no alligator . 
I heard the bushes rustling near the landing place . 
Yes , said Dain , after listening awhile . 
It cannot be Babalatchi , who would come in a big war canoe , and openly . 
Those that are coming , whoever they are , do not wish to make much noise . 
But you have heard , and now I can see , he went on quickly . 
It is but one man . 
Stand behind me , Nina . 
If he is a friend he is welcome if he is an enemy you shall see him die . 
He laid his hand on his kriss , and awaited the approach of his unexpected visitor . 
The fire was burning very low , and small clouds precursors of the storm crossed the face of the moon in rapid succession , and their flying shadows darkened the clearing . 
The man stopped at some little distance , and Dain expected him to speak , but all he could hear was his deep breathing . 
Through a break in the flying clouds a sudden and fleeting brightness descended upon the clearing . 
At the appearance of Nina , Almayer's arm fell by his side , and he made a step forward . 
Dain pushed the girl gently aside . 
Am I a wild beast that you should try to kill me suddenly and in the dark , Tuan Almayer ? said Dain , breaking the strained silence . 
The two men stood close together , breathing hard . 
The replenished fire threw out an unsteady circle of light and shone on the terrified face of Nina , who looked at them with outstretched hands . 
It is easy to send out death , but can your wisdom recall the life ? She might have been harmed , he continued , indicating Nina . 
Your hand shook much for myself I was not afraid . 
Nina ! exclaimed Almayer , come to me at once . 
Dain took Nina by the arm and led her towards her father . 
Speak to him in the language of his people , he said . 
He released her , and , stepping back a few paces out of the circle of light , stood in the darkness looking at them with calm interest . 
You thief ! shouted the exasperated Almayer . 
A deep silence succeeded this outburst , then the voice of Dain was heard again . 
Nay , Tuan , he said in a gentle tone , that is not true also . 
The girl came of her own will . 
Almayer groaned in his extremity of rage and shame . 
Nina laid her hand lightly on his shoulder , and the contact , light as the touch of a falling leaf , seemed to calm him . 
He spoke quickly , and in English this time . 
Between him and you there is a barrier that nothing can remove . 
I can see in your eyes the look of those who commit suicide when they are mad . 
If I were to see you drowning before my eyes , and I without the power to help you , I could not suffer a greater torment . 
Have you forgotten the teaching of so many years ? No , she interrupted , I remember it well . 
I remember how it ended also . 
Scorn for scorn , contempt for contempt , hate for hate . 
I am not of your race . 
Between your people and me there is also a barrier that nothing can remove . 
You ask why I want to go , and I ask you why I should stay . 
He staggered as if struck in the face , but with a quick , unhesitating grasp she caught him by the arm and steadied him . 
Why you should stay ! he repeated slowly , in a dazed manner , and stopped short , astounded at the completeness of his misfortune . 
You told me yesterday , she went on again , that I could not understand or see your love for me it is so . 
How can I ? No two human beings understand each other . 
They can understand but their own voices . 
You wanted me to dream your dreams , to see your own visions the visions of life amongst the white faces of those who cast me out from their midst in angry contempt . 
But while you spoke I listened to the voice of my own self then this man came , and all was still there was only the murmur of his love . 
You call him a savage ! What do you call my mother , your wife ? Nina ! cried Almayer , take your eyes off my face . 
She looked down directly , but continued speaking only a little above a whisper . 
In time , she went on , both our voices , that man's and mine , spoke together in a sweetness that was intelligible to our ears only . 
You were speaking of gold then , but our ears were filled with the song of our love , and we did not hear you . 
Then I found that we could see through each other's eyes that he saw things that nobody but myself and he could see . 
We entered a land where no one could follow us , and least of all you . 
Then I began to live . 
With her eyes still fixed on the ground she began speaking again . 
And I mean to live . 
I mean to follow him . 
I have been rejected with scorn by the white people , and now I am a Malay ! He took me in his arms , he laid his life at my feet . 
He is brave he will be powerful , and I hold his bravery and his strength in my hand , and I shall make him great . 
His name shall be remembered long after both our bodies are laid in the dust . 
I love you no less than I did before , but I shall never leave him , for without him I cannot live . 
If he understood what you have said , answered Almayer , scornfully , he must be highly flattered . 
You want him as a tool for some incomprehensible ambition of yours . 
You cannot escape from this clearing , for I have cast adrift your canoe . 
If the Dutch catch this hero of yours they will hang him as sure as I stand here . 
He made a step towards his daughter and laid hold of her by the shoulder , his other hand pointing down the path to the landing place . 
Beware ! exclaimed Dain this woman belongs to me ! Nina wrenched herself free and looked straight at Almayer's angry face . 
No , I will not go , she said with desperate energy . 
If he dies I shall die too ! You die ! said Almayer , contemptuously . 
Only a few days ago you were selling the powder for their destruction now you want to give up to them the man that yesterday you called your friend . 
For you it is to say yes or no . 
Babalatchi cannot be far now . 
No ! Kill me ! Then perhaps he will let you go . 
You do not know the mind of a white man . 
He would rather see me dead than standing where I am . 
Forgive me , your slave , but you must not . 
She fell at his feet sobbing violently and repeating , Kill me ! Kill me ! I want you alive , said Almayer , speaking also in Malay , with sombre calmness . 
You go , or he hangs . 
Hai , look ! It was easy for me to turn the point the other way , he said in his even voice . 
Go , Tuan Putih , he added with dignity . 
I give you your life , my life , and her life . 
I am the slave of this woman's desire , and she wills it so . 
Every outline had disappeared in the intense blackness that seemed to have destroyed everything but space . 
Almayer stood looking down at them in gloomy thoughtfulness . 
As he was opening his lips to speak they were startled by a cry of warning by the riverside , followed by the splash of many paddles and the sound of voices . 
Babalatchi ! shouted Dain , lifting up Nina as he got upon his feet quickly . 
Ada ! Ada ! came the answer from the panting statesman who ran up the path and stood amongst them . 
Run to my canoe , he said to Dain excitedly , without taking any notice of Almayer . 
Run ! we must go . 
That woman has told them all ! What woman ? asked Dain , looking at Nina . 
Just then there was only one woman in the whole world for him . 
The she dog with white teeth the seven times accursed slave of Bulangi . 
She yelled at Abdulla's gate till she woke up all Sambir . 
Now the white officers are coming , guided by her and Reshid . 
If you want to live , do not look at me , but go ! How do you know this ? asked Almayer . 
Oh , Tuan ! what matters how I know ! I have only one eye , but I saw lights in Abdulla's house and in his campong as we were paddling past . 
I have ears , and while we lay under the bank I have heard the messengers sent out to the white men's house . 
Then kill me and escape yourself , sobbed out Nina . 
No woman is worth a man's life . 
I am an old man , and I know . 
He picked up his staff , and , turning to go , looked at Dain as if offering him his last chance of escape . 
But Dain's face was hidden amongst Nina's black tresses , and he did not see this last appealing glance . 
Babalatchi vanished in the darkness . 
Shortly after his disappearance they heard the war canoe leave the landing place in the swish of the numerous paddles dipped in the water together . 
Almost at the same time Ali came up from the riverside , two paddles on his shoulder . 
Our canoe is hidden up the creek , Tuan Almayer , he said , in the dense bush where the forest comes down to the water . 
I took it there because I heard from Babalatchi's paddlers that the white men are coming here . 
Wait for me there , said Almayer , but keep the canoe hidden . 
He remained silent , listening to Ali's footsteps , then turned to Nina . 
Nina , he said sadly , will you have no pity for me ? There was no answer . 
She did not even turn her head , which was pressed close to Dain's breast . 
He made a movement as if to leave them and stopped . 
By the dim glow of the burning out fire he saw their two motionless figures . 
The woman's back turned to him with the long black hair streaming down over the white dress , and Dain's calm face looking at him above her head . 
I cannot , he muttered to himself . 
After a long pause he spoke again a little lower , but in an unsteady voice , It would be too great a disgrace . 
I am a white man . 
He broke down completely there , and went on tearfully , I am a white man , and of good family . 
Very good family , he repeated , weeping bitterly . 
It would be a disgrace . 
all over the islands , . 
the only white man on the east coast . 
No , it cannot be . 
white men finding my daughter with this Malay . 
My daughter ! he cried aloud , with a ring of despair in his voice . 
I shall try to forget . 
There used to be a half caste woman in my house , but she is going even now . 
You , Dain , or whatever your name may be , I shall take you and that woman to the island at the mouth of the river myself . 
He led the way , following the bank as far as the forest . 
Ali answered to his call , and , pushing their way through the dense bush , they stepped into the canoe hidden under the overhanging branches . 
Dain laid Nina in the bottom , and sat holding her head on his knees . 
Almayer and Ali each took up a paddle . 
As they were going to push out Ali hissed warningly . 
In the great stillness before the bursting out of the thunderstorm they could hear the sound of oars working regularly in their row locks . 
The sound approached steadily , and Dain , looking through the branches , could see the faint shape of a big white boat . 
Way enough ! Stand by to jump on shore ! He is alone and unarmed , was the quiet order in a man's voice , and in Dutch . 
Somebody else whispered I think I can see a glimmer of a fire through the bush . 
And then the boat floated past them , disappearing instantly in the darkness . 
Now , whispered Ali , eagerly , let us push out and paddle away . 
The little canoe swung into the stream , and as it sprung forward in response to the vigorous dig of the paddles they could hear an angry shout . 
He is not by the fire . 
We will wait for that boat there . 
Almayer , who was steering , nodded without speaking , and by a slight sweep of his paddle laid the head of the canoe in the required direction . 
The bottom of the canoe grated upon the sand as the little craft ran upon the beach . 
Ali leaped on shore and held on while Dain stepped out carrying Nina in his arms , exhausted by the events and the long travelling during the night . 
Almayer was the last to leave the boat , and together with Ali ran it higher up on the beach . 
Then Ali , tired out by the long paddling , laid down in the shade of the canoe , and incontinently fell asleep . 
Almayer sat sideways on the gunwale , and with his arms crossed on his breast , looked to the southward upon the sea . 
These tears and this sorrow were for him a profound and disquieting mystery . 
Doubtless she had the wisdom of perfect beings . 
He felt something invisible that stood between them , something that would let him approach her so far , but no farther . 
No desire , no longing , no effort of will or length of life could destroy this vague feeling of their difference . 
With awe but also with great pride he concluded that it was her own incomparable perfection . 
She was his , and yet she was like a woman from another world . 
His ! His ! He exulted in the glorious thought nevertheless her tears pained him . 
With a wisp of her own hair which he took in his hand with timid reverence he tried in an access of clumsy tenderness to dry the tears that trembled on her eyelashes . 
He rose and walked towards Almayer , who still sat absorbed in his contemplation of the sea . 
It was a very , very long time since he had seen the sea that sea that leads everywhere , brings everything , and takes away so much . 
He had almost forgotten why he was there , and dreamily he could see all his past life on the smooth and boundless surface that glittered before his eyes . 
Dain's hand laid on Almayer's shoulder recalled him with a start from some country very far away indeed . 
He turned round , but his eyes seemed to look rather at the place where Dain stood than at the man himself . 
Dain felt uneasy under the unconscious gaze . 
She is crying , murmured Dain , softly . 
She is crying ! Why ? asked Almayer , indifferently . 
I came to ask you . 
My Ranee smiles when looking at the man she loves . 
It is the white woman that is crying now . 
Almayer shrugged his shoulders and turned away again towards the sea . 
Go , Tuan Putih , urged Dain . 
Go to her her tears are more terrible to me than the anger of gods . 
Are they ? You will see them more than once . 
And you go when the sun is overhead ? he said . 
Then we go , answered Dain . 
I have not long to wait , muttered Almayer . 
It is most important for me to see you go . 
Most important , he repeated , stopping short and looking at Dain fixedly . 
He went on again towards Nina , and Dain remained behind . 
Almayer approached his daughter and stood for a time looking down on her . 
She did not open her eyes , but hearing footsteps near her , murmured in a low sob , Dain . 
Almayer hesitated for a minute and then sank on the sand by her side . 
She , not hearing a responsive word , not feeling a touch , opened her eyes saw her father , and sat up suddenly with a movement of terror . 
Oh , father ! she murmured faintly , and in that word there was expressed regret and fear and dawning hope . 
I shall never forgive you , Nina , said Almayer , in a dispassionate voice . 
You have torn my heart from me while I dreamt of your happiness . 
Your eyes that for me were like truth itself lied to me in every glance for how long ? You know that best . 
He looked at it also , but his features had lost all expression , and life in his eyes seemed to have gone out . 
The face was a blank , without a sign of emotion , feeling , reason , or even knowledge of itself . 
What is there to forgive ? asked Nina , not addressing Almayer directly , but more as if arguing with herself . 
Can I not live my own life as you have lived yours ? The path you would have wished me to follow has been closed to me by no fault of mine . 
You never told me , muttered Almayer . 
You never asked me , she answered , and I thought you were like the others and did not care . 
I bore the memory of my humiliation alone , and why should I tell you that it came to me because I am your daughter ? I knew you could not avenge me . 
And yet I was thinking of that only , interrupted Almayer , and I wanted to give you years of happiness for the short day of your suffering . 
I only knew of one way . 
Ah ! but it was not my way ! she replied . 
Could you give me happiness without life ? Life ! she repeated with sudden energy that sent the word ringing over the sea . 
Life that means power and love , she added in a low voice . 
That ! said Almayer , pointing his finger at Dain standing close by and looking at them in curious wonder . 
Yes , that ! she replied , looking her father full in the face and noticing for the first time with a slight gasp of fear the unnatural rigidity of his features . 
He asked himself who spoke , and , after looking slowly round as if expecting to see somebody , turned again his eyes towards the sea . 
You say that because you do not understand the meaning of my words , she said sadly . 
Between you and my mother there never was any love . 
When I returned to Sambir I found the place which I thought would be a peaceful refuge for my heart , filled with weariness and hatred and mutual contempt . 
I have listened to your voice and to her voice . 
A thunderbolt has fallen from that sky , and suddenly all is still and dark around me for ever . 
To him it seemed of the utmost importance that he should assure her of his intention of never forgiving . 
And now his faith was gone , destroyed by her own hands destroyed cruelly , treacherously , in the dark in the very moment of success . 
And this must be made clear to her and to himself by frequent repetition . 
That was his idea of his duty to himself to his race to his respectable connections to the whole universe unsettled and shaken by this frightful catastrophe of his life . 
He saw it clearly and believed he was a strong man . 
He had always prided himself upon his unflinching firmness . 
And yet he was afraid . 
She had been all in all to him . 
What if he should say that his love for her was greater than . 
I will never forgive you , Nina ! he shouted , leaping up madly in the sudden fear of his dream . 
This was the last time in his life that he was heard to raise his voice . 
Henceforth he spoke always in a monotonous whisper like an instrument of which all the strings but one are broken in a last ringing clamour under a heavy blow . 
She rose to her feet and looked at him . 
She put both her hands on Almayer's shoulders , and looking at him half tenderly , half playfully , she said You speak so because you love me . 
Yes , you do , she insisted softly then after a short pause she added , and you will never forget me . 
She could not have said a more cruel thing . 
Here is the boat coming now , said Dain , his arm outstretched towards a black speck on the water between the coast and the islet . 
They all looked at it and remained standing in silence till the little canoe came gently on the beach and a man landed and walked towards them . 
He stopped some distance off and hesitated . 
What news ? asked Dain . 
We have had orders secretly and in the night to take off from this islet a man and a woman . 
Which of you is the man ? Come , delight of my eyes , said Dain to Nina . 
Now we go , and your voice shall be for my ears only . 
You have spoken your last words to the Tuan Putih , your father . 
Goodbye , she whispered , and remained irresolute till he pushed her suddenly into Dain's arms . 
If you have any pity for me , murmured Almayer , as if repeating some sentence learned by heart , take that woman away . 
He looked at the line of their footsteps marked in the sand . 
He followed their figures moving in the crude blaze of the vertical sun , in that light violent and vibrating , like a triumphal flourish of brazen trumpets . 
He looked at the man's brown shoulders , at the red sarong round his waist at the tall , slender , dazzling white figure he supported . 
He looked at the white dress , at the falling masses of the long black hair . 
The canoe disappeared , and Almayer stood motionless with his eyes fixed on its wake . 
Ali from under the shade of his hand examined the coast curiously . 
As the sun declined , the sea breeze sprang up from the northward and shivered with its breath the glassy surface of the water . 
Dapat ! exclaimed Ali , joyously . 
Got him , master ! Got prau ! Not there ! Look more Tanah Mirrah side . 
Aha ! That way ! Master , see ? Now plain . 
See ? Almayer followed Ali's forefinger with his eyes for a long time in vain . 
At last he sighted a triangular patch of yellow light on the red background of the cliffs of Tanjong Mirrah . 
It was the sail of the prau that had caught the sunlight and stood out , distinct with its gay tint , on the dark red of the cape . 
The yellow triangle crept slowly from cliff to cliff , till it cleared the last point of land and shone brilliantly for a fleeting minute on the blue of the open sea . 
Round the little islet the air was full of the talk of the rippling water . 
Above , the white clouds sailed rapidly southwards as if intent upon overtaking something . 
Master , he said timidly , time to get house now . 
Long way off to pull . 
Now she was gone his business was to forget , and he had a strange notion that it should be done systematically and in order . 
To Ali's great dismay he fell on his hands and knees , and , creeping along the sand , erased carefully with his hand all traces of Nina's footsteps . 
He piled up small heaps of sand , leaving behind him a line of miniature graves right down to the water . 
Ali watching him uneasily saw only his lips move , but heard no sound . 
He brought his foot down with a stamp . 
He was a firm man firm as a rock . 
He never had a daughter . 
Ali approached him again , insisting on immediate departure , and this time he consented , and they went together towards their canoe , Almayer leading . 
He whispered into Almayer's ear a childish prattle of many years ago . 
Almayer walked straight to the house , and Ali followed , paddles on shoulder , thinking that he would like to eat something . 
As they crossed the front courtyard they noticed the abandoned look of the place . 
Ali looked in at the different servants' houses all were empty . 
In the back courtyard there was the same absence of sound and life . 
In the cooking shed the fire was out and the black embers were cold . 
A tall , lean man came stealthily out of the banana plantation , and went away rapidly across the open space looking at them with big , frightened eyes over his shoulder . 
Some vagabond without a master there were many such in the settlement , and they looked upon Almayer as their patron . 
Finally he picked up the table and sat on it while the monkey let itself down from the roof stick by its chain and perched on his shoulder . 
When the bananas came they had their breakfast together both hungry , both eating greedily and showering the skins round them recklessly , in the trusting silence of perfect friendship . 
Ali went away , grumbling , to cook some rice himself , for all the women about the house had disappeared he did not know where . 
Almayer did not seem to care , and , after he finished eating , he sat on the table swinging his legs and staring at the river as if lost in thought . 
After some time he got up and went to the door of a room on the right of the verandah . 
The office of Lingard and Co . 
He very seldom went in there . 
There was no business now , and he did not want an office . 
The door was locked , and he stood biting his lower lip , trying to think of the place where the key could be . 
Suddenly he remembered in the women's room hung upon a nail . 
A great square of sunshine entering through the window lay on the floor . 
A few of Nina's dresses hung on wooden pegs , stiffened in a look of offended dignity at their abandonment . 
He remembered making the pegs himself and noticed that they were very good pegs . 
Where was the key ? He looked round and saw it near the door where he stood . 
It was red with rust . 
He felt very much annoyed at that , and directly afterwards wondered at his own feeling . 
What did it matter ? There soon would be no key no door nothing ! He paused , key in hand , and asked himself whether he knew well what he was about . 
He went out again on the verandah and stood by the table thinking . 
The monkey jumped down , and , snatching a banana skin , absorbed itself in picking it to shreds industriously . 
Forget ! muttered Almayer , and that word started before him a sequence of events , a detailed programme of things to do . 
He knew perfectly well what was to be done now . 
First this , then that , and then forgetfulness would come easy . 
He had a fixed idea that if he should not forget before he died he would have to remember to all eternity . 
Certain things had to be taken out of his life , stamped out of sight , destroyed , forgotten . 
For a long time he stood in deep thought , lost in the alarming possibilities of unconquerable memory , with the fear of death and eternity before him . 
Eternity ! he said aloud , and the sound of that word recalled him out of his reverie . 
The monkey started , dropped the skin , and grinned up at him amicably . 
He went towards the office door and with some difficulty managed to open it . 
He entered in a cloud of dust that rose under his feet . 
Books open with torn pages bestrewed the floor other books lay about grimy and black , looking as if they had never been opened . 
In those books he had intended to keep day by day a record of his rising fortunes . 
The revolving office chair stood in its place , but he found the pivot set fast when he tried to turn it . 
He desisted , and his eyes wandered slowly from object to object . 
All those things had cost a lot of money at the time . 
The desk , the paper , the torn books , and the broken shelves , all under a thick coat of dust . 
The very dust and bones of a dead and gone business . 
He looked at all these things , all that was left after so many years of work , of strife , of weariness , of discouragement , conquered so many times . 
And all for what ? He stood thinking mournfully of his past life till he heard distinctly the clear voice of a child speaking amongst all this wreck , ruin , and waste . 
This done he went back slowly to the table , called the monkey down , unhooked its chain , and induced it to remain quiet in the breast of his jacket . 
Then he sat again on the table and looked fixedly at the door of the room he had just left . 
The monkey struggled under his coat . 
Ali appeared with his eyes starting out of his head . 
Master ! House burn ! he shouted . 
Almayer stood up holding by the table . 
He could hear the yells of alarm and surprise in the settlement . 
Ali wrung his hands , lamenting aloud . 
Stop this noise , fool ! said Almayer , quietly . 
Pick up my hammock and blankets and take them to the other house . 
Quick , now ! The smoke burst through the crevices of the door , and Ali , with the hammock in his arms , cleared in one bound the steps of the verandah . 
It has caught well , muttered Almayer to himself . 
Be quiet , Jack , he added , as the monkey made a frantic effort to escape from its confinement . 
The door split from top to bottom , and a rush of flame and smoke drove Almayer away from the table to the front rail of the verandah . 
He held on there till a great roar overhead assured him that the roof was ablaze . 
Then he ran down the steps of the verandah , coughing , half choked with the smoke that pursued him in bluish wreaths curling about his head . 
On the other side of the ditch , separating Almayer's courtyard from the settlement , a crowd of the inhabitants of Sambir looked at the burning house of the white man . 
In the calm air the flames rushed up on high , coloured pale brick red , with violet gleams in the strong sunshine . 
In that manner did Almayer move into his new house . 
He took possession of the new ruin , and in the undying folly of his heart set himself to wait in anxiety and pain for that forgetfulness which was so slow to come . 
He had done all he could . 
He wanted to be alone . 
Ali did not see anything , but he also was aware of the presence of a child in the house . 
In his long talks by the evening fires of the settlement he used to tell his intimate friends of Almayer's strange doings . 
His master had turned sorcerer in his old age . 
Ali said that often when Tuan Putih had retired for the night he could hear him talking to something in his room . 
Ali thought that it was a spirit in the shape of a child . 
He knew his master spoke to a child from certain expressions and words his master used . 
His master spoke in Malay a little , but mostly in English , which he , Ali , could understand . 
Master spoke to the child at times tenderly , then he would weep over it , laugh at it , scold it , beg of it to go away curse it . 
It was a bad and stubborn spirit . 
Ali thought his master had imprudently called it up , and now could not get rid of it . 
His master was very brave he was not afraid to curse this spirit in the very Presence and once he fought with it . 
Ali had heard a great noise as of running about inside the room and groans . 
His master was brave , but foolish . 
You cannot hurt a spirit . 
Ali expected to find his master dead next morning , but he came out very early , looking much older than the day before , and had no food all day . 
So far Ali to the settlement . 
To Captain Ford he was much more communicative , for the good reason that Captain Ford had the purse and gave orders . 
On each of Ford's monthly visits to Sambir Ali had to go on board with a report about the inhabitant of Almayer's Folly . 
On his first visit to Sambir , after Nina's departure , Ford had taken charge of Almayer's affairs . 
The shed for the storage of goods was empty , the boats had disappeared , appropriated generally in night time by various citizens of Sambir in need of means of transport . 
During a great flood the jetty of Lingard and Co . 
Ford did not often visit Almayer , for visiting Almayer was not a pleasant task . 
Then gradually he became more silent not sulkily but as if he was forgetting how to speak . 
He used also to hide in the darkest rooms of the house , where Ford had to seek him out guided by the patter of the monkey galloping before him . 
The monkey was always there to receive and introduce Ford . 
One morning Ford found him sitting on the floor of the verandah , his back against the wall , his legs stretched stiffly out , his arms hanging by his side . 
As Ford came up the steps he turned his head slowly . 
Ford , he murmured from the floor , I cannot forget . 
Can't you ? said Ford , innocently , with an attempt at joviality I wish I was like you . 
I am losing my memory age , I suppose only the other day my mate He stopped , for Almayer had got up , stumbled , and steadied himself on his friend's arm . 
Hallo ! You are better to day . 
Soon be all right , said Ford , cheerfully , but feeling rather scared . 
Almayer let go his arm and stood very straight with his head up and shoulders thrown back , looking stonily at the multitude of suns shining in ripples of the river . 
His jacket and his loose trousers flapped in the breeze on his thin limbs . 
Let her go ! he whispered in a grating voice . 
To morrow I shall forget . 
I am a firm man , . 
Ford looked at his face and fled . 
The skipper was a tolerably firm man himself as those who had sailed with him could testify but Almayer's firmness was altogether too much for his fortitude . 
Next time the steamer called in Sambir Ali came on board early with a grievance . 
He complained to Ford that Jim Eng the Chinaman had invaded Almayer's house , and actually had lived there for the last month . 
And they both smoke , added Ali . 
Phew ! Opium , you mean ? Ali nodded , and Ford remained thoughtful then he muttered to himself , Poor devil ! The sooner the better now . 
In the afternoon he walked up to the house . 
What are you doing here ? he asked of Jim Eng , whom he found strolling about on the verandah . 
So , being an old friend for many , many years , he took his money , his opium , and two pipes , and came to live in this big house . 
There is plenty of room . 
He smokes , and I live here . 
He will not smoke long , he concluded . 
Where is he now ? asked Ford . 
He sleeps , answered Jim Eng , wearily . 
Ford glanced in through the doorway . 
He shuddered and turned away . 
As he was leaving he noticed a long strip of faded red silk , with some Chinese letters on it , which Jim Eng had just fastened to one of the pillars . 
What's that ? he asked . 
That , said Jim Eng , in his colourless voice , that is the name of the house . 
All the same like my house . 
Ford looked at him for awhile and went away . 
He did not know what the crazy looking maze of the Chinese inscription on the red silk meant . 
Had he asked Jim Eng , that patient Chinaman would have informed him with proper pride that its meaning was House of heavenly delight . 
In the evening of the same day Babalatchi called on Captain Ford . 
The captain's cabin opened on deck , and Babalatchi sat astride on the high step , while Ford smoked his pipe on the settee inside . 
The steamer was leaving next morning , and the old statesman came as usual for a last chat . 
We had news from Bali last moon , remarked Babalatchi . 
A grandson is born to the old Rajah , and there is great rejoicing . 
Yes , went on Babalatchi , in answer to Ford's look . 
That was before he began to smoke . 
Well , and what ? asked Ford . 
I escaped with my life , said Babalatchi , with perfect gravity , because the white man is very weak and fell as he rushed upon me . 
Then , after a pause , he added , She is mad with joy . 
Mrs. Almayer , you mean ? Yes , she lives in our Rajah's house . 
She will not die soon . 
Such women live a long time , said Babalatchi , with a slight tinge of regret in his voice . 
She has dollars , and she has buried them , but we know where . 
We had much trouble with those people . 
We had to pay a fine and listen to threats from the white men , and now we have to be careful . 
He sighed and remained silent for a long while . 
Then with energy There will be fighting . 
There is a breath of war on the islands . 
Shall I live long enough to see ? . 
Ah , Tuan ! he went on , more quietly , the old times were best . 
Even I have sailed with Lanun men , and boarded in the night silent ships with white sails . 
That was before an English Rajah ruled in Kuching . 
Then we fought amongst ourselves and were happy . 
Now when we fight with you we can only die ! He rose to go . 
Tuan , he said , you remember the girl that man Bulangi had ? Her that caused all the trouble ? Yes , said Ford . 
What of her ? She grew thin and could not work . 
Then Bulangi , who is a thief and a pig eater , gave her to me for fifty dollars . 
I sent her amongst my women to grow fat . 
I wanted to hear the sound of her laughter , but she must have been bewitched , and . 
she died two days ago . 
And he went off looking very sad . 
Abdulla walked first , supported by Reshid and followed by all the Arabs in Sambir . 
As they entered the lane made by the respectful throng there was a subdued murmur of voices , where the word Mati was the only one distinctly audible . 
Abdulla stopped and looked round slowly . 
Is he dead ? he asked . 
May you live ! answered the crowd in one shout , and then there succeeded a breathless silence . 
Abdulla made a few paces forward and found himself for the last time face to face with his old enemy . 
Whatever he might have been once he was not dangerous now , lying stiff and lifeless in the tender light of the early day . 
The only white man on the east coast was dead , and his soul , delivered from the trammels of his earthly folly , stood now in the presence of Infinite Wisdom . 
Abdulla looked down sadly at this Infidel he had fought so long and had bested so many times . 
Such was the reward of the Faithful ! Yet in the Arab's old heart there was a feeling of regret for that thing gone out of his life . 
He was leaving fast behind him friendships , and enmities , successes , and disappointments all that makes up a life and before him was only the end . 
Prayer would fill up the remainder of the days allotted to the True Believer ! He took in his hand the beads that hung at his waist . 
I found him here , like this , in the morning , said Ali , in a low and awed voice . 
Abdulla glanced coldly once more at the serene face . 
Let us go , he said , addressing Reshid . 
