But if the Indians have been there before me , you shall have their name , which is always beautifully fit and does not originate in the poor human desire for perpetuity . 
Guided by these you may reach my country and find or not find , according as it lieth in you , much that is set down here . 
The earth is no wanton to give up all her best to every comer , but keeps a sweet , separate intimacy for each . 
But if you do not find it all as I write , think me not less dependable nor yourself less clever . 
There is a sort of pretense allowed in matters of the heart , as one should say by way of illustration , I know a man who . 
and so give up his dearest experience without betrayal . 
The best of all ways is over the Sierra passes by pack and trail , seeing and believing . 
But the real heart and core of the country are not to be come at in a month's vacation . 
One must summer and winter with the land and wait its occasions . 
THE LAND OF LITTLE RAIN East away from the Sierras , south from Panamint and Amargosa , east and south many an uncounted mile , is the Country of Lost Borders . 
Ute , Paiute , Mojave , and Shoshone inhabit its frontiers , and as far into the heart of it as a man dare go . 
Not the law , but the land sets the limit . 
Desert is the name it wears upon the maps , but the Indian's is the better word . 
Desert is a loose term to indicate land that supports no man whether the land can be bitted and broken to that purpose is not proven . 
Void of life it never is , however dry the air and villainous the soil . 
This is the nature of that country . 
There are hills , rounded , blunt , burned , squeezed up out of chaos , chrome and vermilion painted , aspiring to the snowline . 
Between the hills lie high level looking plains full of intolerable sun glare , or narrow valleys drowned in a blue haze . 
The hill surface is streaked with ash drift and black , unweathered lava flows . 
After rains water accumulates in the hollows of small closed valleys , and , evaporating , leaves hard dry levels of pure desertness that get the local name of dry lakes . 
Where the mountains are steep and the rains heavy , the pool is never quite dry , but dark and bitter , rimmed about with the efflorescence of alkaline deposits . 
A thin crust of it lies along the marsh over the vegetating area , which has neither beauty nor freshness . 
In the broad wastes open to the wind the sand drifts in hummocks about the stubby shrubs , and between them the soil shows saline traces . 
The sculpture of the hills here is more wind than water work , though the quick storms do sometimes scar them past many a year's redeeming . 
Here you find the hot sink of Death Valley , or high rolling districts where the air has always a tang of frost . 
Here are the long heavy winds and breathless calms on the tilted mesas where dust devils dance , whirling up into a wide , pale sky . 
Here you have no rain when all the earth cries for it , or quick downpours called cloud bursts for violence . 
A land of lost rivers , with little in it to love yet a land that once visited must be come back to inevitably . 
If it were not so there would be little told of it . 
This is the country of three seasons . 
The desert floras shame us with their cheerful adaptations to the seasonal limitations . 
Their whole duty is to flower and fruit , and they do it hardly , or with tropical luxuriance , as the rain admits . 
It is recorded in the report of the Death Valley expedition that after a year of abundant rains , on the Colorado desert was found a specimen of Amaranthus ten feet high . 
A year later the same species in the same place matured in the drought at four inches . 
One hopes the land may breed like qualities in her human offspring , not tritely to try , but to do . 
Seldom does the desert herb attain the full stature of the type . 
Very fertile are the desert plants in expedients to prevent evaporation , turning their foliage edge wise toward the sun , growing silky hairs , exuding viscid gum . 
The wind , which has a long sweep , harries and helps them . 
There are many areas in the desert where drinkable water lies within a few feet of the surface , indicated by the mesquite and the bunch grass . 
It is this nearness of unimagined help that makes the tragedy of desert deaths . 
It is related that the final breakdown of that hapless party that gave Death Valley its forbidding name occurred in a locality where shallow wells would have saved them . 
The angle of the slope , the frontage of a hill , the structure of the soil determines the plant . 
South looking hills are nearly bare , and the lower tree line higher here by a thousand feet . 
Canons running east and west will have one wall naked and one clothed . 
Around dry lakes and marshes the herbage preserves a set and orderly arrangement . 
Most species have well defined areas of growth , the best index the voiceless land can give the traveler of his whereabouts . 
If you have any doubt about it , know that the desert begins with the creosote . 
This immortal shrub spreads down into Death Valley and up to the lower timberline , odorous and medicinal as you might guess from the name , wandlike , with shining fretted foliage . 
Its vivid green is grateful to the eye in a wilderness of gray and greenish white shrubs . 
In the spring it exudes a resinous gum which the Indians of those parts know how to use with pulverized rock for cementing arrow points to shafts . 
Trust Indians not to miss any virtues of the plant world ! Nothing the desert produces expresses it better than the unhappy growth of the tree yuccas . 
The yucca bristles with bayonet pointed leaves , dull green , growing shaggy with age , tipped with panicles of fetid , greenish bloom . 
After death , which is slow , the ghostly hollow network of its woody skeleton , with hardly power to rot , makes the moonlight fearful . 
So it is that in those parts where man inhabits one sees young plants of Yucca arborensis infrequently . 
Other yuccas , cacti , low herbs , a thousand sorts , one finds journeying east from the coastwise hills . 
There is neither poverty of soil nor species to account for the sparseness of desert growth , but simply that each plant requires more room . 
So much earth must be preempted to extract so much moisture . 
The real struggle for existence , the real brain of the plant , is underground above there is room for a rounded perfect growth . 
In Death Valley , reputed the very core of desolation , are nearly two hundred identified species . 
There is no special preponderance of self fertilized or wind fertilized plants , but everywhere the demand for and evidence of insect life . 
Now where there are seeds and insects there will be birds and small mammals and where these are , will come the slinking , sharp toothed kind that prey on them . 
Go as far as you dare in the heart of a lonely land , you cannot go so far that life and death are not before you . 
Painted lizards slip in and out of rock crevices , and pant on the white hot sands . 
Birds , hummingbirds even , nest in the cactus scrub woodpeckers befriend the demoniac yuccas out of the stark , treeless waste rings the music of the night singing mockingbird . 
If it be summer and the sun well down , there will be a burrowing owl to call . 
Strange , furry , tricksy things dart across the open places , or sit motionless in the conning towers of the creosote . 
The poet may have named all the birds without a gun , but not the fairy footed , ground inhabiting , furtive , small folk of the rainless regions . 
They are too many and too swift how many you would not believe without seeing the footprint tracings in the sand . 
They are nearly all night workers , finding the days too hot and white . 
Nothing so large as a man can move unspied upon in that country , and they know well how the land deals with strangers . 
There are hints to be had here of the way in which a land forces new habits on its dwellers . 
The quick increase of suns at the end of spring sometimes overtakes birds in their nesting and effects a reversal of the ordinary manner of incubation . 
It becomes necessary to keep eggs cool rather than warm . 
None other than this long brown land lays such a hold on the affections . 
The rainbow hills , the tender bluish mists , the luminous radiance of the spring , have the lotus charm . 
They trick the sense of time , so that once inhabiting there you always mean to go away without quite realizing that you have not done it . 
Men who have lived there , miners and cattlemen , will tell you this , not so fluently , but emphatically , cursing the land and going back to it . 
For one thing there is the divinest , cleanest air to be breathed anywhere in God's world . 
Some day the world will understand that , and the little oases on the windy tops of hills will harbor for healing its ailing , house weary broods . 
There was a line of shallow graves along that road they used to count on dropping a man or two of every new gang of coolies brought out in the hot season . 
But when he lost his swamper , smitten without warning at the noon halt , Salty quit his job he said it was too durn hot . 
The land had called him . 
The palpable sense of mystery in the desert air breeds fables , chiefly of lost treasure . 
Old miners drifting about the desert edges , weathered into the semblance of the tawny hills , will tell you tales like these convincingly . 
After a little sojourn in that land you will believe them on their own account . 
I , who must have drunk of it in my twice seven years' wanderings , am assured that it is worth while . 
For all the toll the desert takes of a man it gives compensations , deep breaths , deep sleep , and the communion of the stars . 
It comes upon one with new force in the pauses of the night that the Chaldeans were a desert bred people . 
It is hard to escape the sense of mastery as the stars move in the wide clear heavens to risings and settings unobscured . 
They look large and near and palpitant as if they moved on some stately service not needful to declare . 
Wheeling to their stations in the sky , they make the poor world fret of no account . 
Of no account you who lie out there watching , nor the lean coyote that stands off in the scrub from you and howls and howls . 
But however faint to man sight , they are sufficiently plain to the furred and feathered folk who travel them . 
It needs but a slender thread of barrenness to make a mouse trail in the forest of the sod . 
To the little people the water trails are as country roads , with scents as signboards . 
It seems that man height is the least fortunate of all heights from which to study trails . 
It is better to go up the front of some tall hill , say the spur of Black Mountain , looking back and down across the hollow of the Ceriso . 
Strange how long the soil keeps the impression of any continuous treading , even after grass has overgrown it . 
Afoot in the Ceriso one looks in vain for any sign of it . 
So all the paths that wild creatures use going down to the Lone Tree Spring are mapped out whitely from this level , which is also the level of the hawks . 
In the dry season there is no water else for a man's long journey of a day . 
East to the foot of Black Mountain , and north and south without counting , are the burrows of small rodents , rat and squirrel kind . 
Many water holes are no more than this detected by the lean hobo of the hills in localities where not even an Indian would look for it . 
It is very still in the Ceriso by day , so that were it not for the evidence of those white beaten ways , it might be the desert it looks . 
The sun is hot in the dry season , and the days are filled with the glare of it . 
Now and again some unseen coyote signals his pack in a long drawn , dolorous whine that comes from no determinate point , but nothing stirs much before mid afternoon . 
It is a sign when there begin to be hawks skimming above the sage that the little people are going about their business . 
We have fallen on a very careless usage , speaking of wild creatures as if they were bound by some such limitation as hampers clockwork . 
And their accustomed performance is very much a matter of keen eye , keener scent , quick ear , and a better memory of sights and sounds than man dares boast . 
Watch a coyote come out of his lair and cast about in his mind where be will go for his daily killing . 
You cannot very well tell what decides him , but very easily that he has decided . 
And along with this the deer have learned that Charley's Butte is almost the only possible ford , and all the shortest crossing of the valley . 
It seems that the wild creatures have learned all that is important to their way of life except the changes of the moon . 
The moon in its wanderings must be a sort of exasperation to cunning beasts , likely to spoil by untimely risings some fore planned mischief . 
The rabbits begin it , taking the trail with long , light leaps , one eye and ear cocked to the hills from whence a coyote might descend upon them at any moment . 
Rabbits are a foolish people . 
They do not fight except with their own kind , nor use their paws except for feet , and appear to have no reason for existence but to furnish meals for meat eaters . 
In flight they seem to rebound from the earth of their own elasticity , but keep a sober pace going to the spring . 
It is the young watercress that tempts them and the pleasures of society , for they seldom drink . 
But drink they must , as I have often seen them mornings and evenings at the rill that goes by my door . 
Wait long enough at the Lone Tree Spring and sooner or later they will all come in . 
But here their matings are accomplished , and though they are fearful of so little as a cloud shadow or blown leaf , they contrive to have some playful hours . 
At the spring the bobcat drops down upon them from the black rock , and the red fox picks them up returning in the dark . 
By day the hawk and eagle overshadow them , and the coyote has all times and seasons for his own . 
In these half wild spotted steers the habits of an earlier lineage persist . 
It must be long since they have made beds for themselves , but before lying down they turn themselves round and round as dogs do . 
They choose bare and stony ground , exposed fronts of westward facing hills , and lie down in companies . 
Usually by the end of the summer the cattle have been driven or gone of their own choosing to the mountain meadows . 
There was no knowing how far he had come , but if he came again the second night he found that the coyotes had left him very little of his kill . 
Nobody ventures to say how infrequently and at what hour the small fry visit the spring . 
There are such numbers of them that if each came once between the last of spring and the first of winter rains , there would still be water trails . 
I have seen badgers drinking about the hour when the light takes on the yellow tinge it has from coming slantwise through the hills . 
They find out shallow places , and are loath to wet their feet . 
Rats and chipmunks have been observed visiting the spring as late as nine o'clock mornings . 
The larger spermophiles that live near the spring and keep awake to work all day , come and go at no particular hour , drinking sparingly . 
At long intervals on half lighted days , meadow and field mice steal delicately along the trail . 
Now owls do not love water greatly on its own account . 
Not to my knowledge have I caught one drinking or bathing , though on night wanderings across the mesa they flit up from under the horse's feet along stream borders . 
Their presence near the spring in great numbers would indicate the presence of the things they feed upon . 
All night the rustle and soft hooting keeps on in the neighborhood of the spring , with seldom small shrieks of mortal agony . 
The crested quail that troop in the Ceriso are the happiest frequenters of the water trails . 
There is no furtiveness about their morning drink . 
One summer there came a road runner up from the lower valley , peeking and prying , and he had never any patience with the water baths of the sparrows . 
Then suddenly he would go tilting and balancing down the gully in fine disdain , only to return in a day or two to make sure the foolish bodies were still at it . 
It is the old , indubitable water mark of the Shoshones . 
One still finds it in the desert ranges in Salt Wells and Mesquite valleys , and along the slopes of Waban . 
On the other side of Ceriso , where the black rock begins , about a mile from the spring , is the work of an older , forgotten people . 
The rock hereabout is all volcanic , fracturing with a crystalline whitish surface , but weathered outside to furnace blackness . 
After three hours they had only clapped their wings , or exchanged posts . 
The season's end in the vast dim valley of the San Joaquin is palpitatingly hot , and the air breathes like cotton wool . 
Through it all the buzzards sit on the fences and low hummocks , with wings spread fanwise for air . 
There is no end to them , and they smell to heaven . 
Their heads droop , and all their communication is a rare , horrid croak . 
The increase of wild creatures is in proportion to the things they feed upon the more carrion the more buzzards . 
The end of the third successive dry year bred them beyond belief . 
The first year quail mated sparingly the second year the wild oats matured no seed the third , cattle died in their tracks with their heads towards the stopped watercourses . 
And that year the scavengers were as black as the plague all across the mesa and up the treeless , tumbled hills . 
On clear days they betook themselves to the upper air , where they hung motionless for hours . 
That year there were vultures among them , distinguished by the white patches under the wings . 
All their offensiveness notwithstanding , they have a stately flight . 
They must also have what pass for good qualities among themselves , for they are social , not to say clannish . 
It is a very squalid tragedy , that of the dying brutes and the scavenger birds . 
Death by starvation is slow . 
The heavy headed , rack boned cattle totter in the fruitless trails they stand for long , patient intervals they lie down and do not rise . 
There is fear in their eyes when they are first stricken , but afterward only intolerable weariness . 
I suppose the dumb creatures know nearly as much of death as do their betters , who have only the more imagination . 
Their even breathing submission after the first agony is their tribute to its inevitableness . 
It needs a nice discrimination to say which of the basket ribbed cattle is likest to afford the next meal , but the scavengers make few mistakes . 
One stoops to the quarry and the flock follows . 
Cattle once down may be days in dying . 
They stretch out their necks along the ground , and roll up their slow eyes at longer intervals . 
The buzzards have all the time , and no beak is dropped or talon struck until the breath is wholly passed . 
He could hear the beat of their wings , Tom said , and trod on their shadows , but O'Shea was past recalling what he thought about things after the second day . 
There are three kinds of noises buzzards make , it is impossible to call them notes , raucous and elemental . 
There is a short croak of alarm , and the same syllable in a modified tone to serve all the purposes of ordinary conversation . 
The old birds make a kind of throaty chuckling to their young , but if they have any love song I have not heard it . 
The young yawp in the nest a little , with more breath than noise . 
It is seldom one finds a buzzard's nest , seldom that grown ups find a nest of any sort it is only children to whom these things happen by right . 
It is probable that the buzzard is gregarious , but it seems unlikely from the small number of young noted at any time that every female incubates each year . 
The young birds are easily distinguished by their size when feeding , and high up in air by the worn primaries of the older birds . 
The little ones would be amusing as they tug and tussle , if one could forget what it is they feed upon . 
One never comes any nearer to the vulture's nest or nestlings than hearsay . 
They keep to the southerly Sierras , and are bold enough , it seems , to do killing on their own account when no carrion is at hand . 
They dog the shepherd from camp to camp , the hunter home from the hill , and will even carry away offal from under his hand . 
The vulture merits respect for his bigness and for his bandit airs , but he is a sombre bird , with none of the buzzard's frank satisfaction in his offensiveness . 
The least objectionable of the inland scavengers is the raven , frequenter of the desert ranges , the same called locally carrion crow . 
He is handsomer and has such an air . 
He is nice in his habits and is said to have likable traits . 
A tame one in a Shoshone camp was the butt of much sport and enjoyed it . 
He could all but talk and was another with the children , but an arrant thief . 
And never a coyote comes out of his lair for killing , in the country of the carrion crows , but looks up first to see where they may be gathering . 
Probably we never fully credit the interdependence of wild creatures , and their cognizance of the affairs of their own kind . 
Pinos , buzzards materialized out of invisible ether , and hawks came trooping like small boys to a street fight . 
Rabbits sat up in the chaparral and cocked their ears , feeling themselves quite safe for the once as the hunt swung near them . 
Nothing happens in the deep wood that the blue jays are not all agog to tell . 
The hawk follows the badger , the coyote the carrion crow , and from their aerial stations the buzzards watch each other . 
What would be worth knowing is how much of their neighbor's affairs the new generations learn for themselves , and how much they are taught of their elders . 
So wide is the range of the scavengers that it is never safe to say , eyewitness to the contrary , that there are few or many in such a place . 
Where the carrion is , there will the buzzards be gathered together , and in three days' journey you will not sight another one . 
The way up from Mojave to Red Butte is all desertness , affording no pasture and scarcely a rill of water . 
In a year of little rain in the south , flocks and herds were driven to the number of thousands along this road to the perennial pastures of the high ranges . 
It is a long , slow trail , ankle deep in bitter dust that gets up in the slow wind and moves along the backs of the crawling cattle . 
In the worst of times one in three will pine and fall out by the way . 
In the defiles of Red Rock , the sheep piled up a stinking lane it was the sun smiting by day . 
All that summer the dead mummified in the open or dropped slowly back to earth in the quagmires of the bitter springs . 
Meanwhile from Red Rock to Coyote Holes , and from Coyote Holes to Haiwai the scavengers gorged and gorged . 
Very clean and handsome , quite belying his relationship in appearance , is Clark's crow , that scavenger and plunderer of mountain camps . 
It is permissible to call him by his common name , Camp Robber he has earned it . 
All the while he does not neglect to vituperate the chipmunks and sparrows that whisk off crumbs of comfort from under the camper's feet . 
High as the camp may be , so it is not above timberline , it is not too high for the coyote , the bobcat , or the wolf . 
It is the complaint of the ordinary camper that the woods are too still , depleted of wild life . 
Man is a great blunderer going about in the woods , and there is no other except the bear makes so much noise . 
Being so well warned beforehand , it is a very stupid animal , or a very bold one , that cannot keep safely hid . 
The cunningest hunter is hunted in turn , and what he leaves of his kill is meat for some other . 
That is the economy of nature , but with it all there is not sufficient account taken of the works of man . 
There is no scavenger that eats tin cans , and no wild thing leaves a like disfigurement on the forest floor . 
THE POCKET HUNTER I remember very well when I first met him . 
Walking in the evening glow to spy the marriages of the white gilias , I sniffed the unmistakable odor of burning sage . 
It is a smell that carries far and indicates usually the nearness of a campoodie , but on the level mesa nothing taller showed than Diana's sage . 
He sat tailorwise in the sand , with his coffee pot on the coals , his supper ready to hand in the frying pan , and himself in a mood for talk . 
His pack burros in hobbles strayed off to hunt for a wetter mouthful than the sage afforded , and gave him no concern . 
We came upon him often after that , threading the windy passes , or by water holes in the desert hills , and got to know much of his way of life . 
He traveled far and took a long time to it , but the simplicity of his kitchen arrangements was elemental . 
He used no gun , but he would set snares by the water holes for quail and doves , and in the trout country he carried a line . 
Burros he kept , one or two according to his pack , for this chief excellence , that they would eat potato parings and firewood . 
I suppose no man becomes a pocket hunter by first intention . 
He must be born with the faculty , and along comes the occasion , like the tap on the test tube that induces crystallization . 
My friend had been several things of no moment until he struck a thousand dollar pocket in the Lee District and came into his vocation . 
A pocket , you must know , is a small body of rich ore occurring by itself , or in a vein of poorer stuff . 
Nearly every mineral ledge contains such , if only one has the luck to hit upon them without too much labor . 
The sensible thing for a man to do who has found a good pocket is to buy himself into business and keep away from the hills . 
The logical thing is to set out looking for another one . 
My friend the Pocket Hunter had been looking twenty years . 
His working outfit was a shovel , a pick , a gold pan which he kept cleaner than his plate , and a pocket magnifier . 
I think he said the best indication of small pockets was an iron stain , but I could never get the run of miner's talk enough to feel instructed for pocket hunting . 
But he came to no harm in it the land tolerated him as it might a gopher or a badger . 
Of all its inhabitants it has the least concern for man . 
There was more color to his reminiscences than the faded sandy old miners kyoteing , that is , tunneling like a coyote in the core of a lonesome hill . 
He wanted nothing of you and maintained a cheerful preference for his own way of life . 
It was an excellent way if you had the constitution for it . 
The Pocket Hunter had gotten to that point where he knew no bad weather , and all places were equally happy so long as they were out of doors . 
I do not know just how long it takes to become saturated with the elements so that one takes no account of them . 
But prospectors and Indians get a kind of a weather shell that remains on the body until death . 
He had been in Grape vine Canon the year of storms that changed the whole front of the mountain . 
All day he had come down under the wing of the storm , hoping to win past it , but finding it traveling with him until night . 
It kept on after that , he supposed , a steady downpour , but could not with certainty say , being securely deep in sleep . 
But the weather instinct does not sleep . 
It went on against the cabin of Bill Gerry and laid Bill stripped and broken on a sand bar at the mouth of the Grape vine , seven miles away . 
The journeyings of the Pocket Hunter led him often into that mysterious country beyond Hot Creek where a hidden force works mischief , mole like , under the crust of the earth . 
Whatever agency is at work in that neighborhood , and it is popularly supposed to be the devil , it changes means and direction without time or season . 
It will break up sometimes blue hot and bubbling , in the midst of a clear creek , or make a sucking , scalding quicksand at the ford . 
Woodcutters and prospectors had brought me word of that , but the Pocket Hunter was accessory to the fact . 
About the opening of winter , when one looks for sudden big storms , he had attempted a crossing by the nearest path , beginning the ascent at noon . 
According to the Pocket Hunter's account , he knew where he was , but couldn't exactly say . 
That is the only thing to do in a snowstorm in any case . 
If the flock stirred in the night he stirred drowsily to keep close and let the storm go by . 
That was all until morning woke him shining on a white world . 
They had moved a little away from him with the coming of the light , but paid him no more heed . 
The light broadened and the white pavilions of the snow swam in the heavenly blueness of the sea from which they rose . 
The cloud drift scattered and broke billowing in the canons . 
He believed in the venom of toads , and charms for snake bites , and for this I could never forgive him had all the miner's prejudices against my friend the coyote . 
Thief , sneak , and son of a thief were the friendliest words he had for this little gray dog of the wilderness . 
He had been all over the Tonopah country , and brought away float without happening upon anything that gave promise of what that district was to become in a few years . 
It seemed so incongruous a reminder in this untenanted West that I dropped down beside the trail overlooking the vast dim valley , to hear about the green canvas . 
He had gotten it , he said , in London years before , and that was the first I had known of his having been abroad . 
This last was nothing less than to strike it rich and set himself up among the eminently bourgeois of London . 
The land seemed not to miss him any more than it had minded him , but I missed him and could not forget the trick of expecting him in least likely situations . 
I was not surprised to find it was the Pocket Hunter . 
No man can be stronger than his destiny . 
Once a Shoshone always a Shoshone . 
Winnenap' lived gingerly among the Paiutes and in his heart despised them . 
But he could speak a tolerable English when he would , and he always would if it were of Shoshone Land . 
He had seen his children's children in the borders of the Paiutes , but loved best his own miles of sand and rainbow painted hills . 
After the hills the black rock , after the craters the spewed lava , ash strewn , of incredible thickness , and full of sharp , winding rifts . 
There are picture writings carved deep in the face of the cliffs to mark the way for those who do not know it . 
On the very edge of the black rock the earth falls away in a wide sweeping hollow , which is Shoshone Land . 
South the land rises in very blue hills , blue because thickly wooded with ceanothus and manzanita , the haunt of deer and the border of the Shoshones . 
It is the country of the bighorn , the wapiti , and the wolf , nesting place of buzzards , land of cloud nourished trees and wild things that live without drink . 
Above all , it is the land of the creosote and the mesquite . 
The mesquite is God's best thought in all this desertness . 
It grows in the open , is thorny , stocky , close grown , and iron rooted . 
Long winds move in the draughty valleys , blown sand fills and fills about the lower branches , piling pyramidal dunes , from the top of which the mesquite twigs flourish greenly . 
Fifteen or twenty feet under the drift , where it seems no rain could penetrate , the main trunk grows , attaining often a yard's thickness , resistant as oak . 
In Shoshone Land one digs for large timber that is in the southerly , sandy exposures . 
Higher on the table topped ranges low trees of juniper and pinon stand each apart , rounded and spreading heaps of greenness . 
Between them , but each to itself in smooth clear spaces , tufts of tall feathered grass . 
This is the sense of the desert hills , that there is room enough and time enough . 
Trees grow to consummate domes every plant has its perfect work . 
Noxious weeds such as come up thickly in crowded fields do not flourish in the free spaces . 
Live long enough with an Indian , and he or the wild things will show you a use for everything that grows in these borders . 
The manner of the country makes the usage of life there , and the land will not be lived in except in its own fashion . 
The Shoshones live like their trees , with great spaces between , and in pairs and in family groups they set up wattled huts by the infrequent springs . 
More wickiups than two make a very great number . 
Their shelters are lightly built , for they travel much and far , following where deer feed and seeds ripen , but they are not more lonely than other creatures that inhabit there . 
The year's round is somewhat in this fashion . 
Here the Shoshones winter flockwise , weaving baskets and hunting big game driven down from the country of the deep snow . 
And this brief intercourse is all the use they have of their kind , for now there are no wars , and many of their ancient crafts have fallen into disuse . 
The solitariness of the life breeds in the men , as in the plants , a certain well roundedness and sufficiency to its own ends . 
Any Shoshone family has in itself the man seed , power to multiply and replenish , potentialities for food and clothing and shelter , for healing and beautifying . 
They are morning and evening bloomers chiefly , and strong seeders . 
Years of scant rains they lie shut and safe in the winnowed sands , so that some species appear to be extinct . 
Years of long storms they break so thickly into bloom that no horse treads without crushing them . 
These years the gullies of the hills are rank with fern and a great tangle of climbing vines . 
Just as the mesa twilights have their vocal note in the love call of the burrowing owl , so the desert spring is voiced by the mourning doves . 
Welcome and sweet they sound in the smoky mornings before breeding time , and where they frequent in any great numbers water is confidently looked for . 
Still by the springs one finds the cunning brush shelters from which the Shoshones shot arrows at them when the doves came to drink . 
According to their traditions and all proper evidence , they were a great people occupying far north and east of their present bounds , driven thence by the Paiutes . 
Between the two tribes is the residuum of old hostilities . 
And they two burned to rob those nests . 
As for food , that appears to be chiefly a matter of being willing . 
Desert Indians all eat chuckwallas , big black and white lizards that have delicate white flesh savored like chicken . 
It seems that most seeds are foodful in the arid regions , most berries edible , and many shrubs good for firewood with the sap in them . 
Fermented in water with wild honey and the honeycomb , it makes a pleasant , mildly intoxicating drink . 
Next to spring , the best time to visit Shoshone Land is when the deer star hangs low and white like a torch over the morning hills . 
Go up past Winnedumah and down Saline and up again to the rim of Mesquite Valley . 
But there was never any but Winnenap' who could tell and make it worth telling about Shoshone Land . 
And Winnenap' will not any more . 
He died , as do most medicine men of the Paiutes . 
Where the lot falls when the campoodie chooses a medicine man there it rests . 
It is an honor a man seldom seeks but must wear , an honor with a condition . 
When three patients die under his ministrations , the medicine man must yield his life and his office . 
Wounds do not count broken bones and bullet holes the Indian can understand , but measles , pneumonia , and smallpox are witchcraft . 
Winnenap' was medicine man for fifteen years . 
Besides considerable skill in healing herbs , he used his prerogatives cunningly . 
It is permitted the medicine man to decline the case when the patient has had treatment from any other , say the white doctor , whom many of the younger generation consult . 
But this must not be pushed too far . 
All else failing , he can hide . 
Winnenap' did this the time of the measles epidemic . 
It is possible the tale of Winnenap''s patients had not been strictly kept . 
There had not been a medicine man killed in the valley for twelve years , and for that the perpetrators had been severely punished by the whites . 
Even the drugs of the white physician had no power . 
After two weeks of this plague the Paiutes drew to council to consider the remissness of their medicine men . 
They were sore with grief and afraid for themselves as a result of the council , one in every campoodie was sentenced to the ancient penalty . 
But schooling and native shrewdness had raised up in the younger men an unfaith in old usages , so judgment halted between sentence and execution . 
At Three Pines the government teacher brought out influential whites to threaten and cajole the stubborn tribes . 
At Tunawai the conservatives sent into Nevada for that pacific old humbug , Johnson Sides , most notable of Paiute orators , to harangue his people . 
Citizens of the towns turned out with food and comforts , and so after a season the trouble passed . 
But here at Maverick there was no school , no oratory , and no alleviation . 
One third of the campoodie died , and the rest killed the medicine men . 
When finally three men came and sat at his fire without greeting he knew his time . 
He turned a little from them , dropped his chin upon his knees , and looked out over Shoshone Land , breathing evenly . 
The women went into the wickiup and covered their heads with their blankets . 
So much has the Indian lost of savageness by merely desisting from killing , that the executioners braved themselves to their work by drinking and a show of quarrelsomeness . 
In the end a sharp hatchet stroke discharged the duty of the campoodie . 
That summer they told me all except the names of the Three . 
He should have gone to Jimville . 
There he would have found cast up on the ore ribbed hills the bleached timbers of more tales , and better ones . 
Not that Jimville is old , but it has an atmosphere favorable to the type of a half century back , if not forty niners , of that breed . 
Any way you go at it , Jimville is about three days from anywhere in particular . 
North or south , after the railroad there is a stage journey of such interminable monotony as induces forgetfulness of all previous states of existence . 
This is to comfort you when the driver stops to rummage for wire to mend a failing bolt . 
There is enough of this sort of thing to quite prepare you to believe what the driver insists , namely , that all that country and Jimville are held together by wire . 
So in still weather and when the wind blows there is occupation enough for the passengers , shifting seats to hold down the windward side of the wagging coach . 
This is a mere trifle . 
In time you learn to engage the high seat beside the driver , where you get good air and the best company . 
Beyond the desert rise the lava flats , scoriae strewn sharp cutting walls of narrow canons league wide , frozen puddles of black rock , intolerable and forbidding . 
Beyond the lava the mouths that spewed it out , ragged lipped , ruined craters shouldering to the cloud line , mostly of red earth , as red as a red heifer . 
These have some comforting of shrubs and grass . 
Beyond the craters rise worn , auriferous hills of a quiet sort , tumbled together a valley full of mists whitish green scrub and bright , small , panting lizards then Jimville . 
The town looks to have spilled out of Squaw Gulch , and that , in fact , is the sequence of its growth . 
It began around the Bully Boy and Theresa group of mines midway up Squaw Gulch , spreading down to the smelter at the mouth of the ravine . 
The freight wagons dumped their loads as near to the mill as the slope allowed , and Jimville grew in between . 
Above the Gulch begins a pine wood with sparsely grown thickets of lilac , azalea , and odorous blossoming shrubs . 
All between the ore dumps and solitary small cabins , pieced out with tin cans and packing cases , run footpaths drawing down to the Silver Dollar saloon . 
There are three hundred inhabitants in Jimville and four bars , though you are not to argue anything from that . 
Hear now how Jimville came by its name . 
Jim Calkins discovered the Bully Boy , Jim Baker located the Theresa . 
When Jim Jenkins opened an eating house in his tent he chalked up on the flap , Best meals in Jimville , . 
, and the name stuck . 
There was more human interest in the origin of Squaw Gulch , though it tickled no humor . 
It was Dimmick's squaw from Aurora way . 
If Dimmick had been anything except New Englander he would have called her a mahala , but that would not have bettered his behavior . 
Dimmick made a strike , went East , and the squaw who had been to him as his wife took to drink . 
That was the bald way of stating it in the Aurora country . 
The milk of human kindness , like some wine , must not be uncorked too much in speech lest it lose savor . 
This is what they did . 
The woman would have returned to her own people , being far gone with child , but the drink worked her bane . 
By the river of this ravine her pains overtook her . 
There Jim Calkins , prospecting , found her dying with a three days' babe nozzling at her breast . 
Then he came back to Squaw Gulch , so named from that day , and discovered the Bully Boy . 
Jim humbly regarded this piece of luck as interposed for his reward , and I for one believed him . 
If it had been in mediaeval times you would have had a legend or a ballad . 
Bret Harte would have given you a tale . 
You see in me a mere recorder , for I know what is best for you you shall blow out this bubble from your own breath . 
You could never get into any proper relation to Jimville unless you could slough off and swallow your acquired prejudices as a lizard does his skin . 
Once wanting some womanly attentions , the stage driver assured me I might have them at the Nine Mile House from the lady barkeeper . 
The phrase tickled all my after dinner coffee sense of humor into an anticipation of Poker Flat . 
The stage driver proved himself really right , though you are not to suppose from this that Jimville had no conventions and no caste . 
They work out these things in the personal equation largely . 
Almost every latitude of behavior is allowed a good fellow , one no liar , a free spender , and a backer of his friends' quarrels . 
You are respected in as much ground as you can shoot over , in as many pretensions as you can make good . 
By his own account and the evidence of his manners he had been bred for a clergyman , and he certainly has gifts for the part . 
You find him always in possession of your point of view , and with an evident though not obtrusive desire to stand well with you . 
For an account of his killings , for his way with women and the way of women with him , I refer you to Brown of Calaveras and some others of that stripe . 
His improprieties had a certain sanction of long standing not accorded to the gay ladies who wore Mr. Fanshawe's favors . 
There were perhaps too many of them . 
On the whole , the point of the moral distinctions of Jimville appears to be a point of honor , with an absence of humorous appreciation that strangers mistake for dullness . 
At Jimville they see behavior as history and judge it by facts , untroubled by invention and the dramatic sense . 
You glimpse a crude equity in their dealings with Wilkins , who had shot a man at Lone Tree , fairly , in an open quarrel . 
Rumor of it reached Jimville before Wilkins rested there in flight . 
I saw Wilkins , all Jimville saw him in fact , he came into the Silver Dollar when we were holding a church fair and bought a pink silk pincushion . 
I have often wondered what became of it . 
When the sheriff arrived Wilkins had moved on , and Jimville organized a posse and brought him back , because the sheriff was a Jimville man and we had to stand by him . 
I said we had the church fair at the Silver Dollar . 
We had most things there , dances , town meetings , and the kinetoscope exhibition of the Passion Play . 
The Silver Dollar had been built when the borders of Jimville spread from Minton to the red hill the Defiance twisted through . 
Side Winder Smith scrubbed the floor for us and moved the bar to the back room . 
The fair was designed for the support of the circuit rider who preached to the few that would hear , and buried us all in turn . 
He was the symbol of Jimville's respectability , although he was of a sect that held dancing among the cardinal sins . 
The management took no chances on offending the minister at . 
they tendered him the receipts of the evening in the chairman's hat , as a delicate intimation that the fair was closed . 
The company filed out of the front door and around to the back . 
Then the dance began formally with no feelings hurt . 
These were the sort of courtesies , common enough in Jimville , that brought tears of delicate inner laughter . 
Says Three Finger , relating the history of the Mariposa , I took it off'n Tom Beatty , cheap , after his brother Bill was shot . 
Why didn't he work it himself ? Him ? Oh , he was laying for Abe and calculated to have to leave the country pretty quick . 
Huh ! says Jim Jenkins , and the tale flows smoothly on . 
They develop prospects and grow rich , develop others and grow poor but never embittered . 
Say the hills , It is all one , there is gold enough , time enough , and men enough to come after you . 
And at Jimville they understand the language of the hills . 
Jimville does not know a great deal about the crust of the earth , it prefers a hunch . 
I have never heard that the failure of any particular hunch disproved the principle . 
Somehow the rawness of the land favors the sense of personal relation to the supernatural . 
There is not much intervention of crops , cities , clothes , and manners between you and the organizing forces to cut off communication . 
All this begets in Jimville a state that passes explanation unless you will accept an explanation that passes belief . 
Western writers have not sensed it yet they smack the savor of lawlessness too much upon their tongues , but you have these to witness it is not mean spiritedness . 
It is pure Greek in that it represents the courage to sheer off what is not worth while . 
Beyond that it endures without sniveling , renounces without self pity , fears no death , rates itself not too great in the scheme of things so do beasts , so did St . 
Jerome in the desert , so also in the elder day did gods . 
Life , its performance , cessation , is no new thing to gape and wonder at . 
Here you have the repose of the perfectly accepted instinct which includes passion and death in its perquisites . 
I suppose that the end of all our hammering and yawping will be something like the point of view of Jimville . 
The only difference will be in the decorations . 
North and south it is fenced by low old glacial ridges , boulder strewn and untenable . 
Eastward it butts on orchard closes and the village gardens , brimming over into them by wild brier and creeping grass . 
Edswick , Roeder , Connor , and Ruffin owned the field before it fell to my neighbor . 
But Edswick died and Roeder became master of the field . 
Roeder owned cattle on a thousand hills , and made it a recruiting ground for his bellowing herds before beginning the long drive to market across a shifty desert . 
He kept the field fifteen years , and afterward falling into difficulties , put it out as security against certain sums . 
Connor , who held the securities , was cleverer than Roeder and not so busy . 
The money fell due the winter of the Big Snow , when all the trails were forty feet under drifts , and Roeder was away in San Francisco selling his cattle . 
At the set time Connor took the law by the forelock and was adjudged possession of the field . 
Eighteen days later Roeder arrived on snowshoes , both feet frozen , and the money in his pack . 
Curiously , all this human occupancy of greed and mischief left no mark on the field , but the Indians did , and the unthinking sheep . 
Round its corners children pick up chipped arrow points of obsidian , scattered through it are kitchen middens and pits of old sweat houses . 
But the berries of both were food for the Paiutes , eagerly sought and traded for as far south as Shoshone Land . 
By the fork of the creek where the shepherds camp is a single clump of mesquite of the variety called screw bean . 
Naboth has put a fence about the best of the field , but neither the Indians nor the shepherds can quite forego it . 
They make camp and build their wattled huts about the borders of it , and no doubt they have some sense of home in its familiar aspect . 
Once the pines possessed the field , as the worn stumps of them along the streamside show , and it would seem their secret purpose to regain their old footing . 
Now and then some seedling escapes the devastating sheep a rod or two down stream . 
It is interesting to watch this retaking of old ground by the wild plants , banished by human use . 
In stony places where no grass grows , wild olives sprawl close twigged , blue gray patches in winter , more translucent greenish gold in spring than any aureole . 
Along with willow and birch and brier , the clematis , that shyest plant of water borders , slips down season by season to within a hundred yards of the village street . 
Convinced after three years that it would come no nearer , we spent time fruitlessly pulling up roots to plant in the garden . 
The first summer in the new place , a clump of cypripediums came up by the irrigating ditch at the bottom of the lawn . 
But the clematis will not come inside , nor the wild almond . 
It is not easy always to be attentive to the maturing of wild fruit . 
Plants are so unobtrusive in their material processes , and always at the significant moment some other bloom has reached its perfect hour . 
One can never fix the precise moment when the rosy tint the field has from the wild almond passes into the inspiring blue of lupines . 
One notices here and there a spike of bloom , and a day later the whole field royal and ruffling lightly to the wind . 
Part of the charm of the lupine is the continual stir of its plumes to airs not suspected otherwhere . 
The time to plant cucumbers and set out cabbages may be set down in the almanac , but never seed time nor blossom in Naboth's field . 
Certain winged and mailed denizens of the field seem to reach their heyday along with the plants they most affect . 
In June the leaning towers of the white milkweed are jeweled over with red and gold beetles , climbing dizzily . 
The white butterfly crop comes on with the bigelovia bloom , and on warm mornings makes an airy twinkling all across the field . 
In September young linnets grow out of the rabbit brush in the night . 
All the nests discoverable in the neighboring orchards will not account for the numbers of them . 
Somewhere , by the same secret process by which the field matures a million more seeds than it needs , it is maturing red hooded linnets for their devouring . 
All the purlieus of bigelovia and artemisia are noisy with them for a month . 
Suddenly as they come as suddenly go the fly by nights , that pitch and toss on dusky barred wings above the field of summer twilights . 
Never one of these nighthawks will you see after linnet time , though the hurtle of their wings makes a pleasant sound across the dusk in their season . 
For two summers a great red tailed hawk has visited the field every afternoon between three and four o'clock , swooping and soaring with the airs of a gentleman adventurer . 
What he finds there is chiefly conjectured , so secretive are the little people of Naboth's field . 
No , certainly not happier . 
It begins , I say , at the campoodie , and goes on toward the twilight hills and the borders of Shoshone Land . 
The mesa holds very level here , cut across at intervals by the deep washes of dwindling streams , and its treeless spaces uncramp the soul . 
Mesa trails were meant to be traveled on horseback , at the jigging coyote trot that only western bred horses learn successfully . 
A foot pace carries one too slowly past the units in a decorative scheme that is on a scale with the country round for bigness . 
It takes days' journeys to give a note of variety to the country of the social shrubs . 
It would be worth knowing how much the devastating sheep have had to do with driving the tender plants to the shelter of the prickle bushes . 
In the shrub shelter , in the season , flock the little stemless things whose blossom time is as short as a marriage song . 
The larkspurs make the best showing , being tall and sweet , swaying a little above the shrubbery , scattering pollen dust which Navajo brides gather to fill their marriage baskets . 
This were an easier task than to find two of them of a shade . 
This is the gilia the children call evening snow , and it is no use trying to improve on children's names for wild flowers . 
From the height of a horse you look down to clean spaces in a shifty yellow soil , bare to the eye as a newly sanded floor . 
Then as soon as ever the hill shadows begin to swell out from the sidelong ranges , come little flakes of whiteness fluttering at the edge of the sand . 
They keep awake all night , and all the air is heavy and musky sweet because of them . 
Farther south on the trail there will be poppies meeting ankle deep , and singly , peacock painted bubbles of calochortus blown out at the tops of tall stems . 
But before the season is in tune for the gayer blossoms the best display of color is in the lupin wash . 
They look in fullest leaf , except for color , most like the huddled huts of the campoodie , and the largest of them might be a man's length in diameter . 
The rumor of tumult grows and dies in passing , as from open doors gaping on a village street , but does not impinge on the effect of solitariness . 
In quiet weather mesa days have no parallel for stillness , but the night silence breaks into certain mellow or poignant notes . 
It is not possible to disassociate the call of the burrowing owl from the late slant light of the mesa . 
If the fine vibrations which are the golden violet glow of spring twilights were to tremble into sound , it would be just that mellow double note breaking along the blossom tops . 
While the glow holds one sees the thistle down flights and pouncings after prey , and on into the dark hears their soft pus ssh ! clearing out of the trail ahead . 
Both the red fox and the coyote are free of the night hours , and both killers for the pure love of slaughter . 
The fox is no great talker , but the coyote goes garrulously through the dark in twenty keys at once , gossip , warning , and abuse . 
Not so bold , however , as the badger and not so much of a curmudgeon . 
This short legged meat eater loves half lights and lowering days , has no friends , no enemies , and disowns his offspring . 
Very likely if he knew how hawk and crow dog him for dinners , he would resent it . 
But the badger is not very well contrived for looking up or far to either side . 
Dull afternoons he may be met nosing a trail hot foot to the home of ground rat or squirrel , and is with difficulty persuaded to give the right of way . 
The badger is a pot hunter and no sportsman . 
Once at the hill , he dives for the central chamber , his sharp clawed , splayey feet splashing up the sand like a bather in the surf . 
No burrower is so unwise as not to have several exits from his dwelling under protecting shrubs . 
When the badger goes down , as many of the furry people as are not caught napping come up by the back doors , and the hawks make short work of them . 
I suspect that the crows get nothing but the gratification of curiosity and the pickings of some secret store of seeds unearthed by the badger . 
Between the coyote and the birds of carrion the mesa is kept clear of miserable dead . 
It takes man to leave unsightly scars on the face of the earth . 
Here on the mesa the abandoned campoodies of the Paiutes are spots of desolation long after the wattles of the huts have warped in the brush heaps . 
The campoodies are near the watercourses , but never in the swale of the stream . 
The Paiute seeks rising ground , depending on air and sun for purification of his dwelling , and when it becomes wholly untenable , moves . 
A campoodie at noontime , when there is no smoke rising and no stir of life , resembles nothing so much as a collection of prodigious wasps' nests . 
The huts are squat and brown and chimneyless , facing east , and the inhabitants have the faculty of quail for making themselves scarce in the underbrush at the approach of strangers . 
But they are really not often at home during midday , only the blind and incompetent left to keep the camp . 
Mornings and late afternoons one meets the men singly and afoot on unguessable errands , or riding shaggy , browbeaten ponies , with game slung across the saddle bows . 
This might be deer or even antelope , rabbits , or , very far south towards Shoshone Land , lizards . 
Now and then a palm's breadth of the trail gathers itself together and scurries off with a little rustle under the brush , to resolve itself into sand again . 
Men have their season on the mesa as much as plants and four footed things , and one is not like to meet them out of their time . 
As early as February bands of sheep work up from the south to the high Sierra pastures . 
It appears that shepherds have not changed more than sheep in the process of time . 
The shy hairy men who herd the tractile flocks might be , except for some added clothing , the very brethren of David . 
Of necessity they are hardy , simple livers , superstitious , fearful , given to seeing visions , and almost without speech . 
It needs the bustle of shearings and copious libations of sour , weak wine to restore the human faculty . 
A flock's journey is seven miles , ten if pasture fails , in a windless blur of dust , feeding as it goes , and resting at noons . 
At night , wherever he may be , there Pete camps , and fortunate the trail weary traveler who falls in with him . 
But one feels by day anything but good will to note the shorn shrubs and cropped blossom tops . 
Out West , the west of the mesas and the unpatented hills , there is more sky than any place in the world . 
There are some odors , too , that get into the blood . 
And last the smell of the salt grass country , which is the beginning of other things that are the end of the mesa trail . 
THE BASKET MAKER A man , says Seyavi of the campoodie , must have a woman , but a woman who has a child will do very well . 
No doubt she was often put to it in the beginning to find food for them both . 
In the interim , while the tribes swallowed their defeat , and before the rumor of war died out , they must have come very near to the bare core of things . 
That was the time Seyavi learned the sufficiency of mother wit , and how much more easily one can do without a man than might at first be supposed . 
To understand the fashion of any life , one must know the land it is lived in and the procession of the year . 
Hereabouts the ranges have no foothills , but rise up steeply from the bench lands above the river . 
In the river are mussels , and reeds that have edible white roots , and in the soddy meadows tubers of joint grass all these at their best in the spring . 
On the slope the summer growth affords seeds up the steep the one leafed pines , an oily nut . 
That was really all they could depend upon , and that only at the mercy of the little gods of frost and rain . 
For the rest it was cunning against cunning , caution against skill , against quacking hordes of wild fowl in the tulares , against pronghorn and bighorn and deer . 
You can guess , however , that all this warring of rifles and bowstrings , this influx of overlording whites , had made game wilder and hunters fearful of being hunted . 
You can surmise also , for it was a crude time and the land was raw , that the women became in turn the game of the conquerors . 
I have thought Seyavi might have had days like that , and have had perfect leave to think , since she will not talk of it . 
Paiutes have the art of reducing life to its lowest ebb and yet saving it alive on grasshoppers , lizards , and strange herbs and that time must have left no shift untried . 
It lasted long enough for Seyavi to have evolved the philosophy of life which I have set down at the beginning . 
She had gone beyond learning to do for her son , and learned to believe it worth while . 
In our kind of society , when a woman ceases to alter the fashion of her hair , you guess that she has passed the crisis of her experience . 
If she goes on crimping and uncrimping with the changing mode , it is safe to suppose she has never come up against anything too big for her . 
The Indian woman gets nearly the same personal note in the pattern of her baskets . 
Not that she does not make all kinds , carriers , water bottles , and cradles , these are kitchen ware , but her works of art are all of the same piece . 
In this fashion she made them when , after pillage , it was possible to reinstate the housewifely crafts . 
Seyavi made baskets for love and sold them for money , in a generation that preferred iron pots for utility . 
Every Indian woman is an artist , sees , feels , creates , but does not philosophize about her processes . 
The weaver and the warp lived next to the earth and were saturated with the same elements . 
It never quite reached the river except in far between times of summer flood , but it always tried , and the willows encouraged it as much as they could . 
You nearly always found them a little farther down than the trickle of eager water . 
The Paiute fashion of counting time appeals to me more than any other calendar . 
So they get nearer the sense of the season , which runs early or late according as the rains are forward or delayed . 
But whenever Seyavi cut willows for baskets was always a golden time , and the soul of the weather went into the wood . 
If you had ever owned one of Seyavi's golden russet cooking bowls with the pattern of plumed quail , you would understand all this without saying anything . 
Before Seyavi made baskets for the satisfaction of desire , for that is a house bred theory of art that makes anything more of it , she danced and dressed her hair . 
They sang what the heart prompted , what the flower expressed , what boded in the mating weather . 
So sang Seyavi of the campoodie before she made baskets , and in her later days laid her arms upon her knees and laughed in them at the recollection . 
But it was not often she would say so much , never understanding the keen hunger I had for bits of lore and the fool talk of her people . 
What good will your dead get , Seyavi , of the baskets you burn ? said I , coveting them for my own collection . 
Thus Seyavi , As much good as yours of the flowers you strew . 
These first , you understand , are the Paiute's walls , the other his furnishings . 
Not the wattled hut is his home , but the land , the winds , the hill front , the stream . 
These he cannot duplicate at any furbisher's shop as you who live within doors , who , if your purse allows , may have the same home at Sitka and Samarcand . 
So it was when the government reached out for the Paiutes , they gathered into the Northern Reservation only such poor tribes as could devise no other end of their affairs . 
Here , all along the river , and south to Shoshone Land , live the clans who owned the earth , fallen into the deplorable condition of hangers on . 
Then the children lie with their toes in the ashes to hear tales then they are merry , and have the joys of repletion and the nearness of their kind . 
They have their hills , and though jostled are sufficiently free to get some fortitude for what will come . 
For now you shall hear of the end of the basket maker . 
In her best days Seyavi was most like Deborah , deep bosomed , broad in the hips , quick in counsel , slow of speech , esteemed of her people . 
This was that Seyavi who reared a man by her own hand , her own wit , and none other . 
Indian women do not often live to great age , though they look incredibly steeped in years . 
They have the wit to win sustenance from the raw material of life without intervention , but they have not the sleek look of the women whom the social organization conspires to nourish . 
Seyavi had somehow squeezed out of her daily round a spiritual ichor that kept the skill in her knotted fingers along after the accustomed time , but that also failed . 
And in time she paid the toll of the smoky huts and became blind . 
This is a thing so long expected by the Paiutes that when it comes they find it neither bitter nor sweet , but tolerable because common . 
There were three other blind women in the campoodie , withered fruit on a bough , but they had memory and speech . 
By noon of the sun there were never any left in the campoodie but these or some mother of weanlings , and they sat to keep the ashes warm upon the hearth . 
If it were cold , they burrowed in the blankets of the hut if it were warm , they followed the shadow of the wickiup around . 
But suppose you find Seyavi retired into the privacy of her blanket , you will get nothing for that day . 
There is no other privacy possible in a campoodie . 
All the processes of life are carried on out of doors or behind the thin , twig woven walls of the wickiup , and laughter is the only corrective for behavior . 
Very early the Indian learns to possess his countenance in impassivity , to cover his head with his blanket . 
Something to wrap around him is as necessary to the Paiute as to you your closet to pray in . 
THE STREETS OF THE MOUNTAINS All streets of the mountains lead to the citadel steep or slow they go up to the core of the hills . 
Any trail that goes otherwhere must dip and cross , sidle and take chances . 
They have a better name in the Rockies for these hill fenced open glades of pleasantness they call them parks . 
Here and there in the hill country one comes upon blind gullies fronted by high stony barriers . 
These head also for the heart of the mountains their distinction is that they never get anywhere . 
All mountain streets have streams to thread them , or deep grooves where a stream might run . 
You would do well to avoid that range uncomforted by singing floods . 
You will find it forsaken of most things but beauty and madness and death and God . 
The streets of the west Sierras sloping toward the San Joaquin are long and winding , but from the east , my country , a day's ride carries one to the lake regions . 
The passes are steep and windy ridges , though not the highest . 
By two and three thousand feet the snow caps overtop them . 
It is even possible to wind through the Sierras without having passed above timber line , but one misses a great exhilaration . 
The shape of a new mountain is roughly pyramidal , running out into long shark finned ridges that interfere and merge into other thunder splintered sierras . 
You get the saw tooth effect from a distance , but the near by granite bulk glitters with the terrible keen polish of old glacial ages . 
I say terrible so it seems . 
When those glossy domes swim into the alpenglow , wet after rain , you conceive how long and imperturbable are the purposes of God . 
And here is a hint if you would attempt the stateliest approaches travel light , and as much as possible live off the land . 
Mulligatawny soup and tinned lobster will not bring you the favor of the woodlanders . 
First , near the canon mouth you get the low heading full branched , one leaf pines . 
That is the sort of tree to know at sight , for the globose , resin dripping cones have palatable , nourishing kernels , the main harvest of the Paiutes . 
That perhaps accounts for their growing accommodatingly below the limit of deep snows , grouped sombrely on the valleyward slopes . 
The real procession of the pines begins in the rifts with the long leafed Pinus jeffreyi , sighing its soul away upon the wind . 
And it ought not to sigh in such good company . 
Wild life is likely to be busiest about the lower pine borders . 
One looks in hollow trees and hiving rocks for wild honey . 
The drone of bees , the chatter of jays , the hurry and stir of squirrels , is incessant the air is odorous and hot . 
The roar of the stream fills up the morning and evening intervals , and at night the deer feed in the buckthorn thickets . 
It is worth watching the year round in the purlieus of the long leafed pines . 
One month or another you set sight or trail of most roving mountain dwellers as they follow the limit of forbidding snows , and more bloom than you can properly appreciate . 
Whatever goes up or comes down the streets of the mountains , water has the right of way it takes the lowest ground and the shortest passage . 
Pine woods , the short leafed Balfour and Murryana of the high Sierras , are sombre , rooted in the litter of a thousand years , hushed , and corrective to the spirit . 
The trail passes insensibly into them from the black pines and a thin belt of firs . 
You look back as you rise , and strain for glimpses of the tawny valley , blue glints of the Bitter Lake , and tender cloud films on the farther ranges . 
For such pictures the pine branches make a noble frame . 
Presently they close in wholly they draw mysteriously near , covering your tracks , giving up the trail indifferently , or with a secret grudge . 
You get a kind of impatience with their locked ranks , until you come out lastly on some high , windy dome and see what they are about . 
The spring winds lift clouds of pollen dust , finer than frankincense , and trail it out over high altars , staining the snow . 
No doubt they understand this work better than we in fact they know no other . 
Come , say the churches of the valleys , after a season of dry years , let us pray for rain . 
They would do better to plant more trees . 
It is a pity we have let the gift of lyric improvisation die out . 
Sitting islanded on some gray peak above the encompassing wood , the soul is lifted up to sing the Iliad of the pines . 
They have no voice but the wind , and no sound of them rises up to the high places . 
Well up from the valley , at the confluence of canons , are delectable summer meadows . 
Fireweed flames about them against the gray boulders streams are open , go smoothly about the glacier slips and make deep bluish pools for trout . 
Whitney cries it from his vantage tower it flashes from Oppapago to the front of Williamson LeConte speeds it to the westering peaks . 
The high rills wake and run , the birds begin . 
But down three thousand feet in the canon , where you stir the fire under the cooking pot , it will not be day for an hour . 
Who shall say what another will find most to his liking in the streets of the mountains . 
As for me , once set above the country of the silver firs , I must go on until I find white columbine . 
Around the amphitheatres of the lake regions and above them to the limit of perennial drifts they gather flock wise in splintered rock wastes . 
The crowds of them , the airy spread of sepals , the pale purity of the petal spurs , the quivering swing of bloom , obsesses the sense . 
One must learn to spare a little of the pang of inexpressible beauty , not to spend all one's purse in one shop . 
There is always another year , and another . 
Lingering on in the alpine regions until the first full snow , which is often before the cessation of bloom , one goes down in good company . 
First snows are soft and clogging and make laborious paths . 
Then it is the roving inhabitants range down to the edge of the wood , below the limit of early storms . 
But when the ice crust is firm above the twenty foot drifts , they range far and forage where they will . 
But the bighorn , the wild sheep , able to bear the bitterest storms with no signs of stress , cannot cope with the loose shifty snow . 
Never such a storm goes over the mountains that the Indians do not catch them floundering belly deep among the lower rifts . 
There is always more life abroad in the winter hills than one looks to find , and much more in evidence than in summer weather . 
Light feet of hare that make no print on the forest litter leave a wondrously plain track in the snow . 
Busy little grosbeaks picked about the kitchen doors , and woodpeckers tapped the eaves of the farm buildings , but we saw hardly any other of the frequenters of the summer canons . 
After a while when we grew bold to tempt the snow borders we found them in the street of the mountains . 
Ground inhabiting species seek the dim snow chambers of the chaparral . 
Consider how it must be in a hill slope overgrown with stout twigged , partly evergreen shrubs , more than man high , and as thick as a hedge . 
Not all the canon's sifting of snow can fill the intricate spaces of the hill tangles . 
Here and there an overhanging rock , or a stiff arch of buckthorn , makes an opening to communicating rooms and runways deep under the snow . 
But you think of these things afterward . 
They give almost no tokens of distress , and even if the winter tries them too much you are not to pity them . 
You of the house habit can hardly understand the sense of the hills . 
No doubt the labor of being comfortable gives you an exaggerated opinion of yourself , an exaggerated pain to be set aside . 
Whether the wild things understand it or not they adapt themselves to its processes with the greater ease . 
The business that goes on in the street of the mountain is tremendous , world formative . 
Here go birds , squirrels , and red deer , children crying small wares and playing in the street , but they do not obstruct its affairs . 
Summer is their holiday Come now , says the lord of the street , I have need of a great work and no more playing . 
But they are left borders and breathing space out of pure kindness . 
They are not pushed out except by the exigencies of the nobler plan which they accept with a dignity the rest of us have not yet learned . 
WATER BORDERS I like that name the Indians give to the mountain of Lone Pine , and find it pertinent to my subject , Oppapago , The Weeper . 
From twin gray lakes under its noble brow stream down incessant white and tumbling waters . 
Mahala all time cry , said Winnenap' , drawing furrows in his rugged , wrinkled cheeks . 
The origin of mountain streams is like the origin of tears , patent to the understanding but mysterious to the sense . 
They are always at it , but one so seldom catches them in the act . 
Here in the valley there is no cessation of waters even in the season when the niggard frost gives them scant leave to run . 
They make the most of their midday hour , and tinkle all night thinly under the ice . 
But that leaves the lakes to be accounted for . 
The lake is the eye of the mountain , jade green , placid , unwinking , also unfathomable . 
Whatever goes on under the high and stony brows is guessed at . 
It is always a favorite local tradition that one or another of the blind lakes is bottomless . 
Often they lie in such deep cairns of broken boulders that one never gets quite to them , or gets away unhurt . 
One such drops below the plunging slope that the Kearsarge trail winds over , perilously , nearing the pass . 
It lies still and wickedly green in its sharp lipped cap , and the guides of that region love to tell of the packs and pack animals it has swallowed up . 
But the lakes of Oppapago are perhaps not so deep , less green than gray , and better befriended . 
The ousel haunts them , while still hang about their coasts the thin undercut drifts that never quite leave the high altitudes . 
In and out of the bluish ice caves he flits and sings , and his singing heard from above is sweet and uncanny like the Nixie's chord . 
One finds butterflies , too , about these high , sharp regions which might be called desolate , but will not by me who love them . 
This is above timber line but not too high for comforting by succulent small herbs and golden tufted grass . 
A granite mountain does not crumble with alacrity , but once resolved to soil makes the best of it . 
Every handful of loose gravel not wholly water leached affords a plant footing , and even in such unpromising surroundings there is a choice of locations . 
There is never going to be any communism of mountain herbage , their affinities are too sure . 
Soppy little plants of the portulaca and small , fine ferns shiver under the drip of falls and in dribbling crevices . 
The bleaker the situation , so it is near a stream border , the better the cassiope loves it . 
On Oppapago , which is also called Sheep Mountain , one finds not far from the beds of cassiope the ice worn , stony hollows where the big horns cradle their young . 
No other animal of any pretensions makes a habitat of the alpine regions . 
If there is an open stream the trout go up the lake as far as the water breeds food for them , but the ousel goes farthest , for pure love of it . 
What one has to get used to in flowers at high altitudes is the bleaching of the sun . 
Hardly do they hold their virgin color for a day , and this early fading before their function is performed gives them a pitiful appearance not according with their hardihood . 
Here is the fashion in which a mountain stream gets down from the perennial pastures of the snow to its proper level and identity as an irrigating ditch . 
Meadows , little strips of alpine freshness , begin before the timberline is reached . 
Here one treads on a carpet of dwarf willows , downy catkins of creditable size and the greatest economy of foliage and stems . 
No other plant of high altitudes knows its business so well . 
Dipping over banks in the inlets of the creeks , the fortunate find the rosy apples of the miniature manzanita , barely , but always quite sufficiently , borne above the spongy sod . 
It does not do to be anything but humble in the alpine regions , but not fearful . 
One comes soon after this to shrubby willows , and where willows are trout may be confidently looked for in most Sierra streams . 
There is no accounting for their distribution though provident anglers have assisted nature of late , one still comes upon roaring brown waters where trout might very well be , but are not . 
The highest limit of conifers in the middle Sierras , the white bark pine is not along the water border . 
They come to it about the level of the heather , but they have no such affinity for dampness as the tamarack pines . 
The trunk of the tree had quite closed over them , and the skull bones crumbled away from the weathered horn cases . 
We hoped it was not too far out of the running of night prowlers to have put a speedy end to the long agony , but we could not be sure . 
I never liked the spit of Windy Lake again . 
It seems that all snow nourished plants count nothing so excellent in their kind as to be forehanded with their bloom , working secretly to that end under the high piled winters . 
The heathers begin by the lake borders , while little sodden drifts still shelter under their branches . 
blooming , and with well formed fruit , a foot away from a snowbank from which it could hardly have emerged within a week . 
Somehow the soul of the heather has entered into the blood of the English speaking . 
And oh ! is that heather ? they say and the most indifferent ends by picking a sprig of it in a hushed , wondering way . 
One must suppose that the root of their respective races issued from the glacial borders at about the same epoch , and remember their origin . 
Among the pines where the slope of the land allows it , the streams run into smooth , brown , trout abounding rills across open flats that are in reality filled lake basins . 
These are the displaying grounds of the gentians blue blue eye blue , perhaps , virtuous and likable flowers . 
One is not surprised to learn that they have tonic properties . 
At about the nine thousand foot level and in the summer there will be hosts of rosy winged dodecatheon , called shooting stars , outlining the crystal tunnels in the sod . 
Single flowers have often a two inch spread of petal , and the full , twelve blossomed heads above the slender pedicels have the airy effect of wings . 
Here in wet coves of the hills harbors that crowd of bloom that makes the wonder of the Sierra canons . 
Lilies come up out of fern beds , columbine swings over meadowsweet , white rein orchids quake in the leaning grass . 
, tall , branched candelabra of greenish bloom above the sessile , sheathing , boat shaped leaves , semi translucent in the sun . 
A stately plant of the lily family , but why false ? It is frankly offensive in its character , and its young juices deadly as any hellebore that ever grew . 
Like most mountain herbs , it has an uncanny haste to bloom . 
We have more than three hundred species from Kearsarge Canon alone , and if that does not include them all it is because they were already collected otherwhere . 
One expects to find lakes down to about nine thousand feet , leading into each other by comparatively open ripple slopes and white cascades . 
Below the lakes are filled basins that are still spongy swamps , or substantial meadows , as they get down and down . 
Here begin the stream tangles . 
The firs hold on almost to the mesa levels , there are no foothills on this eastern slope , and whoever has firs misses nothing else . 
It goes without saying that a tree that can afford to take fifty years to its first fruiting will repay acquaintance . 
It keeps , too , all that half century , a virginal grace of outline , but having once flowered , begins quietly to put away the things of its youth . 
Years by year the lower rounds of boughs are shed , leaving no scar year by year the star branched minarets approach the sky . 
A fir tree loves a water border , loves a long wind in a draughty canon , loves to spend itself secretly on the inner finishings of its burnished , shapely cones . 
Broken open in mid season the petal shaped scales show a crimson satin surface , perfect as a rose . 
The birch the brown bark western birch characteristic of lower stream tangles is a spoil sport . 
It grows thickly to choke the stream that feeds it grudges it the sky and space for angler's rod and fly . 
The willows do better painted cup , cypripedium , and the hollow stalks of span broad white umbels , find a footing among their stems . 
But in general the steep plunges , the white swirls , green and tawny pools , the gliding hush of waters between the meadows and the mesas afford little fishing and few flowers . 
OTHER WATER BORDERS It is the proper destiny of every considerable stream in the west to become an irrigating ditch . 
It would seem the streams are willing . 
They go as far as they can , or dare , toward the tillable lands in their own boulder fenced gullies but how much farther in the man made waterways . 
It is difficult to come into intimate relations with appropriated waters like very busy people they have no time to reveal themselves . 
Amos owned the half of Tule Creek and the other half pertained to the neighboring Greenfields ranch . 
That was the Homeric age of settlement and passed into tradition . 
Twelve years later one of the Clarks , holding Greenfields , not so very green by now , shot one of the Judsons . 
Perhaps he hoped that also might become classic , but the jury found for manslaughter . 
Every subsequent owner of Greenfields bought it with Amos in full view . 
The last of these was Diedrick . 
Along in August of that year came a week of low water . 
Judson's ditch failed and he went out with his rifle to learn why . 
It was all up with Amos he was too much of a gentleman to fight a lady that was the way he expressed it . 
She was a very large lady , and a longhandled shovel is no mean weapon . 
The next year Judson and Diedrick put in a modern water gauge and took the summer ebb in equal inches . 
It is the repose of the completely accepted instinct . 
With the water runs a certain following of thirsty herbs and shrubs . 
The willows go as far as the stream goes , and a bit farther on the slightest provocation . 
They will strike root in the leak of a flume , or the dribble of an overfull bank , coaxing the water beyond its appointed bounds . 
Given a new waterway in a barren land , and in three years the willows have fringed all its miles of banks three years more and they will touch tops across it . 
It is perhaps due to the early usurpation of the willows that so little else finds growing room along the large canals . 
The birch beginning far back in the canon tangles is more conservative it is shy of man haunts and needs to have the permanence of its drink assured . 
It stops far short of the summer limit of waters , and I have never known it to take up a position on the banks beyond the ploughed lands . 
There is something almost like premeditation in the avoidance of cultivated tracts by certain plants of water borders . 
On the other hand , the horehound , the common European species imported with the colonies , hankers after hedgerows and snug little borders . 
It is more widely distributed than many native species , and may be always found along the ditches in the village corners , where it is not appreciated . 
The irrigating ditch is an impartial distributer . 
It gathers all the alien weeds that come west in garden and grass seeds and affords them harbor in its banks . 
spreading out to the streets with the summer overflow , and every spring a dandelion or two , brought in with the blue grass seed , uncurls in the swardy soil . 
Farther than either of these have come the lilies that the Chinese coolies cultivate in adjacent mud holes for their foodful bulbs . 
The seegoo establishes itself very readily in swampy borders , and the white blossom spikes among the arrow pointed leaves are quite as acceptable to the eye as any native species . 
This last is native to wet meadows and distinguished enough to have a family all to itself . 
Where the irrigating ditches are shallow and a little neglected , they choke quickly with watercress that multiplies about the lowest Sierra springs . 
The joint grass of soggy pastures produces edible , nut flavored tubers , called by the Indians taboose . 
, a very stately , whispering reed , light and strong for shafts or arrows , affords sweet sap and pith which makes a passable sugar . 
It seems the secrets of plant powers and influences yield themselves most readily to primitive peoples , at least one never hears of the knowledge coming from any other source . 
The Indian never concerns himself , as the botanist and the poet , with the plant's appearances and relations , but with what it can do for him . 
, which looks to have no juice in it of any sort , is efficacious in stomachic disorders . 
But they so understand and so use . 
One believes it to be a sort of instinct atrophied by disuse in a complexer civilization . 
I remember very well when I came first upon a wet meadow of yerba mansa , not knowing its name or use . 
It looked potent the cool , shiny leaves , the succulent , pink stems and fruity bloom . 
A little touch , a hint , a word , and I should have known what use to put them to . 
So I felt , unwilling to leave it until we had come to an understanding . 
So a musician might have felt in the presence of an instrument known to be within his province , but beyond his power . 
It was with the relieved sense of having shaped a long surmise that I watched the Senora Romero make a poultice of it for my burned hand . 
On , down from the lower lakes to the village weirs , the brown and golden disks of helenum have beauty as a sufficient excuse for being . 
The plants anchor out on tiny capes , or mid stream islets , with the nearly sessile radicle leaves submerged . 
Although of wide range the helenum never makes itself common through profusion , and may be looked for in the same places from year to year . 
Another lake dweller that comes down to the ploughed lands is the red columbine . 
It requires no encouragement other than shade , but grows too rank in the summer heats and loses its wildwood grace . 
, one that springs up by any water where there is sufficient growth of other sorts to give it countenance . 
It seems to thrive best in an atmosphere of suffocation . 
The middle Sierras fall off abruptly eastward toward the high valleys . 
Peaks of the fourteen thousand class , belted with sombre swathes of pine , rise almost directly from the bench lands with no foothill approaches . 
Here the plant world resembles a little the lake gardens , modified by altitude and the use the town folk put it to for pasture . 
Here are cress , blue violets , potentilla , and , in the damp of the willow fence rows , white false asphodels . 
I am sure we make too free use of this word FALSE in naming plants false mallow , false lupine , and the like . 
Native to the mesa meadows is a pale iris , gardens of it acres wide , that in the spring season of full bloom make an airy fluttering as of azure wings . 
A very poet's flower , I thought not fit for gathering up , and proving a nuisance in the pastures , therefore needing to be the more loved . 
And one day I caught Winnenap' drawing out from mid leaf a fine strong fibre for making snares . 
The borders of the iris fields are pure gold , nearly sessile buttercups and a creeping stemmed composite of a redder hue . 
I am convinced that English speaking children will always have buttercups . 
If they do not light upon the original companion of little frogs they will take the next best and cherish it accordingly . 
I find five unrelated species loved by that name , and as many more and as inappropriately called cowslips . 
By every mesa spring one may expect to find a single shrub of the buckthorn , called of old time Cascara sagrada the sacred bark . 
Up in the canons , within the limit of the rains , it seeks rather a stony slope , but in the dry valleys is not found away from water borders . 
In all the valleys and along the desert edges of the west are considerable areas of soil sickly with alkali collecting pools , black and evil smelling like old blood . 
Very little grows hereabout but thick leaved pickle weed . 
Curiously enough , in this stiff mud , along roadways where there is frequently a little leakage from canals , grows the only western representative of the true heliotropes . 
It has flowers of faded white , foliage of faded green , resembling the live for ever of old gardens and graveyards , but even less attractive . 
After so much schooling in the virtues of water seeking plants , one is not surprised to learn that its mucilaginous sap has healing powers . 
Last and inevitable resort of overflow waters is the tulares , great wastes of reeds in sickly , slow streams . 
The tules grow inconceivably thick in places , standing man high above the water cattle , no , not any fish nor fowl can penetrate them . 
Old stalks succumb slowly the bed soil is quagmire , settling with the weight as it fills and fills . 
Too slowly for counting they raise little islands from the bog and reclaim the land . 
The waters pushed out cut deeper channels , gnaw off the edges of the solid earth . 
The tulares are full of mystery and malaria . 
That is why we have meant to explore them and have never done so . 
It must be a happy mystery . 
So you would think to hear the redwinged blackbirds proclaim it clear March mornings . 
Flocks of them , and every flock a myriad , shelter in the dry , whispering stems . 
They make little arched runways deep into the heart of the tule beds . 
Miles across the valley one hears the clamor of their high , keen flutings in the mating weather . 
Wild fowl , quacking hordes of them , nest in the tulares . 
Any day's venture will raise from open shallows the great blue heron on his hollow wings . 
Chill evenings the mallard drakes cry continually from the glassy pools , the bittern's hollow boom rolls along the water paths . 
Strange and farflown fowl drop down against the saffron , autumn sky . 
All day wings beat above it hazy with speed long flights of cranes glimmer in the twilight . 
By night one wakes to hear the clanging geese go over . 
One wishes for , but gets no nearer speech from those the reedy fens have swallowed up . 
What they do there , how fare , what find , is the secret of the tulares . 
NURSLINGS OF THE SKY Choose a hill country for storms . 
There all the business of the weather is carried on above your horizon and loses its terror in familiarity . 
When you come to think about it , the disastrous storms are on the levels , sea or sand or plains . 
The terrible mewings and mouthings of a Kansas wind have the added terror of viewlessness . 
You are lapped in them like uprooted grass suspect them of a personal grudge . 
But the storms of hill countries have other business . 
They have habits to be learned , appointed paths , seasons , and warnings , and they leave you in no doubt about their performances . 
One who builds his house on a water scar or the rubble of a steep slope must take chances . 
So they did in Overtown who built in the wash of Argus water , and at Kearsarge at the foot of a steep , treeless swale . 
The first effect of cloud study is a sense of presence and intention in storm processes . 
It is the visible manifestation of the Spirit moving itself in the void . 
Hardly anybody takes account of the fact that John Muir , who knows more of mountain storms than any other , is a devout man . 
Days when the hollows are steeped in a warm , winey flood the clouds came walking on the floor of heaven , flat and pearly gray beneath , rounded and pearly white above . 
If their meeting or parting takes place at sunrise or sunset , as it often does , one gets the splendor of the apocalypse . 
But be it day or night , once they have settled to their work , one sees from the valley only the blank wall of their tents stretched along the ranges . 
To get the real effect of a mountain storm you must be inside . 
You might suppose that if you took any account of plant contrivances to save their pollen powder against showers . 
Note how many there are deep throated and bell flowered like the pentstemons , how many have nodding pedicels as the columbine , how many grow in copse shelters and grow there only . 
There is keen delight in the quick showers of summer canons , with the added comfort , born of experience , of knowing that no harm comes of a wetting at high altitudes . 
The day is warm a white cloud spies over the canon wall , slips up behind the ridge to cross it by some windy pass , obscures your sun . 
Next you hear the rain drum on the broad leaved hellebore , and beat down the mimulus beside the brook . 
You shelter on the lee of some strong pine with shut winged butterflies and merry , fiddling creatures of the wood . 
Runnels of rain water from the glacier slips swirl through the pine needles into rivulets the streams froth and rise in their banks . 
The sky is white with cloud the sky is gray with rain the sky is clear . 
The summer showers leave no wake . 
Such as these follow each other day by day for weeks in August weather . 
Sometimes they chill suddenly into wet snow that packs about the lake gardens clear to the blossom frills , and melts away harmlessly . 
Sometimes one has the good fortune from a heather grown headland to watch a rain cloud forming in mid air . 
Out over meadow or lake region begins a little darkling of the sky , no cloud , no wind , just a smokiness such as spirits materialize from in witch stories . 
It rays out and draws to it some floating films from secret canons . 
Such rains relieve like tears . 
The same season brings the rains that have work to do , ploughing storms that alter the face of things . 
These come with thunder and the play of live fire along the rocks . 
They come with great winds that try the pines for their work upon the seas and strike out the unfit . 
They shake down avalanches of splinters from sky line pinnacles and raise up sudden floods like battle fronts in the canons against towns , trees , and boulders . 
They would be kind if they could , but have more important matters . 
Such storms , called cloud bursts by the country folk , are not rain , rather the spillings of Thor's cup , jarred by the Thunderer . 
After such a one the water that comes up in the village hydrants miles away is white with forced bubbles from the wind tormented streams . 
All that storms do to the face of the earth you may read in the geographies , but not what they do to our contemporaries . 
But there were trout enough for what was left of the lake next year and the beginning of a meadow about its upper rim . 
After a time you get the point of view of gods about these things to save you from being too pitiful . 
The great snows that come at the beginning of winter , before there is yet any snow except the perpetual high banks , are best worth while to watch . 
These come often before the late bloomers are gone and while the migratory birds are still in the piney woods . 
Down in the valley you see little but the flocking of blackbirds in the streets , or the low flight of mallards over the tulares , and the gathering of clouds behind Williamson . 
First there is a waiting stillness in the wood the pine trees creak although there is no wind , the sky glowers , the firs rock by the water borders . 
The noise of the creek rises insistently and falls off a full note like a child abashed by sudden silence in the room . 
This changing of the stream tone following tardily the changes of the sun on melting snows is most meaningful of wood notes . 
After it runs a little trumpeter wind to cry the wild creatures to their holes . 
Sometimes the warning hangs in the air for days with increasing stillness . 
Only Clark's crow and the strident jays make light of it only they can afford to . 
The cattle get down to the foothills and ground inhabiting creatures make fast their doors . 
It increases , is wet and clogging , and makes a white night of midday . 
There is seldom any wind with first snows , more often rain , but later , when there is already a smooth foot or two over all the slopes , the drifts begin . 
The late snows are fine and dry , mere ice granules at the wind's will . 
Keen mornings after a storm they are blown out in wreaths and banners from the high ridges sifting into the canons . 
Once in a year or so we have a big snow . 
The cloud tents are widened out to shut in the valley and an outlying range or two and are drawn tight against the sun . 
Such a storm begins warm , with a dry white mist that fills and fills between the ridges , and the air is thick with formless groaning . 
Now for days you get no hint of the neighboring ranges until the snows begin to lighten and some shouldering peak lifts through a rent . 
Mornings after the heavy snows are steely blue , two edged with cold , divinely fresh and still , and these are times to go up to the pine borders . 
There you may find floundering in the unstable drifts tainted wethers of the wild sheep , faint from age and hunger easy prey . 
Even the deer make slow going in the thick fresh snow , and once we found a wolverine going blind and feebly in the white glare . 
No tree takes the snow stress with such ease as the silver fir . 
When the snows are particularly wet and heavy they spread over the young firs in green ribbed tents wherein harbor winter loving birds . 
All storms of desert hills , except wind storms , are impotent . 
In summer the sky travails with thunderings and the flare of sheet lightnings to win a few blistering big drops , and once in a lifetime the chance of a torrent . 
But you have not known what force resides in the mindless things until you have known a desert wind . 
One expects it at the turn of the two seasons , wet and dry , with electrified tense nerves . 
One supposes the Indians might have learned the use of smoke signals from these dust pillars as they learn most things direct from the tutelage of the earth . 
The air begins to move fluently , blowing hot and cold between the ranges . 
Far south rises a murk of sand against the sky it grows , the wind shakes itself , and has a smell of earth . 
The cloud of small dust takes on the color of gold and shuts out the neighborhood , the push of the wind is unsparing . 
Only man of all folk is foolish enough to stir abroad in it . 
But being in a house is really much worse no relief from the dust , and a great fear of the creaking timbers . 
There is no looking ahead in such a wind , and the bite of the small sharp sand on exposed skin is keener than any insect sting . 
It is hot , dry , fretful work , but by going along the ground with the wind behind , one may come upon strange things in its tumultuous privacy . 
I like these truces of wind and heat that the desert makes , otherwise I do not know how I should come by so many acquaintances with furtive folk . 
I like the smother of sand among the dunes , and finding small coiled snakes in open places , but I never like to come in a wind upon the silly sheep . 
The wind robs them of what wit they had , and they seem never to have learned the self induced hypnotic stupor with which most wild things endure weather stress . 
I have never heard that the desert winds brought harm to any other than the wandering shepherds and their flocks . 
Once below Pastaria Little Pete showed me bones sticking out of the sand where a flock of two hundred had been smothered in a bygone wind . 
In many places the four foot posts of a cattle fence had been buried by the wind blown dunes . 
It is enough occupation , when no storm is brewing , to watch the cloud currents and the chambers of the sky . 
In the clean , smooth paths of the middle sky and highest up in air , drift , unshepherded , small flocks ranging contrarily . 
It is astonishing the trouble men will be at to find out when to plant potatoes , and gloze over the eternal meaning of the skies . 
And not necessarily then do you live up to it . 
I mean in particular El Pueblo de Las Uvas . 
Where it lies , how to come at it , you will not get from me rather would I show you the heron's nest in the tulares . 
Below the Town of the Grape Vines , which shortens to Las Uvas for common use , the land dips away to the river pastures and the tulares . 
It shrouds under a twilight thicket of vines , under a dome of cottonwood trees , drowsy and murmurous as a hive . 
Hereabouts are some strips of tillage and the headgates that dam up the creek for the village weirs upstream you catch the growl of the arrastra . 
Wild vines that begin among the willows lap over to the orchard rows , take the trellis and roof tree . 
They pour out piercing , unendurably sweet cavatinas above the fragrance of bloom and musky smell of fruit . 
Singing is in fact the business of the night at Las Uvas as sleeping is for midday . 
And always they dance at dusk on the smooth adobe floors , afternoons under the trellises where the earth is damp and has a fruity smell . 
A betrothal , a wedding , or a christening , or the mere proximity of a guitar is sufficient occasion and if the occasion lacks , send for the guitar and dance anyway . 
Antonio Sevadra , drifting this way from Old Mexico with the flood that poured into the Tappan district after the first notable strike , discovered La Golondrina . 
There you have the beginning of a pretty considerable town . 
To these accrued much of the Spanish California float swept out of the southwest by eastern enterprise . 
They slacked away again when the price of silver went down , and the ore dwindled in La Golondrina . 
Nobody comes nowadays to the town of the grape vines except , as we say , with the breath of crying , but of these enough . 
All the low sills run over with small heads . 
So great a blessing as marriage is easily come by . 
Of what account is it to lack meal or meat when you may have it of any neighbor ? Besides , there is sometimes a point of honor in these things . 
Jesus Romero , father of ten , had a job sacking ore in the Marionette which he gave up of his own accord . 
Eh , why ? said Jesus , for my fam'ly . 
It is so , senora , he said solemnly , I go to the Marionette , I work , I eat meat pie frijoles good , ver' good . 
I come home sad'day nigh' I see my fam'ly . 
I play lil' game poker with the boys , have lil' drink wine , my money all gone . 
My fam'ly have no money , nothing eat . 
All time I work at mine I eat , good , ver' good grub . 
I think sorry for my fam'ly . 
No , no , senora , I no work no more that Marionette , I stay with my fam'ly . 
The wonder of it is , I think , that the family had the same point of view . 
You will have wine which every man makes for himself , of good body and inimitable bouquet , and sweets that are not nearly so nice as they look . 
There are two occasions when you may count on that kind of a meal always on the Sixteenth of September , and on the two yearly visits of Father Shannon . 
After that you have dinner and a bottle of wine that ripened on the sunny slope of Escondito . 
All the week Father Shannon has shriven his people , who bring clean conscience to the betterment of appetite , and the Father sets them an example . 
Father Shannon is rather big about the middle to accommodate the large laugh that lives in him , but a most shrewd searcher of hearts . 
It is reported that one derives comfort from his confessional , and I for my part believe it . 
The celebration of the Sixteenth , though it comes every year , takes as long to prepare for as Holy Communion . 
The senoritas have each a new dress apiece , the senoras a new rebosa . 
The young gentlemen have new silver trimmings to their sombreros , unspeakable ties , silk handkerchiefs , and new leathers to their spurs . 
Perhaps you need to be told that this is the anniversary of the Republic , when liberty awoke and cried in the provinces of Old Mexico . 
The sun over Pine Mountain greets the eagle of Montezuma before it touches the vineyards and the town , and the day begins with a great shout . 
At midnight the flag comes down . 
Count yourself at a loss if you are not moved by that performance . 
Pine Mountain watches whitely overhead , shepherd fires glow strongly on the glooming hills . 
The plaza , the bare glistening pole , the dark folk , the bright dresses , are lit ruddily by a bonfire . 
It leaps up to the eagle flag , dies down , the music begins softly and aside . 
They play airs of old longing and exile slowly out of the dark the flag drops down , bellying and falling with the midnight draught . 
Sometimes a hymn is sung , always there are tears . 
The flag is down Tony Sevadra has received it in his arms . 
Every youth who has the blood of patriots in him lays ahold on Tony Sevadra's flag , happiest if he can get a corner of it . 
The music goes before , the folk fall in two and two , singing . 
The flag goes to Dona Ina's , with the candlesticks and the altar cloths , then Las Uvas eats tamales and dances the sun up the slope of Pine Mountain . 
You are not to suppose that they do not keep the Fourth , Washington's Birthday , and Thanksgiving at the town of the grape vines . 
These make excellent occasions for quitting work and dancing , but the Sixteenth is the holiday of the heart . 
On Memorial Day the graves have garlands and new pictures of the saints tacked to the headboards . 
There is great virtue in an Ave said in the Camp of the Saints . 
Sometimes the speech of simple folk hints at truth the understanding does not reach . 
I am persuaded only a complex soul can get any good of a plain religion . 
Your earthborn is a poet and a symbolist . 
Such as these go to church to be edified , but at Las Uvas they go for pure worship and to entreat their God . 
The logical conclusion of the faith that every good gift cometh from God is the open hand and the finer courtesy . 
The meal done without buys a candle for the neighbor's dead child . 
You do foolishly to suppose that the candle does no good . 
They speak a purer Castilian than obtains in like villages of Mexico , and the way they count relationship everybody is more or less akin . 
There is not much villainy among them . 
Eh , what ! shall a man be a saint before he is dead ? And besides , Holy Church takes it out of you one way or another before all is done . 
