THE LOST CITY BY JOSEPH E. BADGER , JR . 
CHAPTER I. NATURE IN TRAVAIL II . 
PROFESSOR FEATHERWIT TAKING NOTES III . 
THE PROFESSOR'S LITTLE EXPERIMENT V. THE PROFESSOR'S UNKNOWN LAND VI . 
A BRACE OF UNWELCOME VISITORS VII . 
THE PROFESSOR'S GREAT ANTICIPATIONS VIII . 
A DUEL TO THE DEATH IX . 
GRAPPLING A QUEER FISH X. RESCUED AND RESCUERS XI . 
ANOTHER SURPRISE FOR THE PROFESSOR XII . 
THE STORY OF A BROKEN LIFE XIII . 
THE LOST CITY OF THE AZTECS XIV . 
ASTOUNDING , YET TRUE XVI . 
CAN IT BE TRUE ? XVII . 
AN ENIGMA FOR THE BROTHERS XVIII . 
SOMETHING LIKE A WHITE ELEPHANT XIX . 
THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN GOD XX . 
THE PROFESSOR AND THE AZTEC XXI . 
DISCUSSING WAYS AND MEANS XXII . 
THE SUN CHILDREN'S PERIL XXV . 
DOWN AMONG THE DEAD XXVII . 
BROUGHT BEFORE THE GODS XXIX . 
BENEATH THE SACRIFICIAL STONE XXX . 
DEFENDING THE SUN CHILDREN XXXII . 
ADIEU TO THE LOST CITY THE LOST CITY . 
CHAPTER I. NATURE IN TRAVAIL . 
I say , professor ? Very well , Waldo proceed . 
member of that little party , drawing a curved forefinger across his forehead , then flirting aside sundry drops of moisture . 
At sea , literally as well as metaphorically , my dear Bruno for , correctly speaking , the ocean alone can give birth to the cyclone . 
Why can't you remember anything , boy ? sternly cut in the roguish eyed youngster , with admonitory forefinger , coming to the front . 
Bruno laughed outright at this characteristic anticlimax , while Professor Featherwit was obliged to smile , even while compelled to correct . 
Tornado , please , nephew not cyclone . 
Well , uncle Phaeton , have it your own way . 
So long as I knew myself to be in the wrong , coolly finished the youngster , face grave , but eyes twinkling , as they turned towards his mistaken mentor . 
Far away towards the northeast , rising above the distant hill , now showed an ugly looking cloud bank which almost certainly portended a storm of no ordinary dimensions . 
Well , well , that looks ugly , decidedly ugly , I must confess , the wiry little professor spoke , after that keen scrutiny . 
Really , now ? drawled Waldo , who was nothing if not contrary on the surface . 
Hurrah ! shrilly screamed Waldo , as he dashed out into the storm , fairly revelling in the sudden change . 
Faster fell the drops , both of rain and of ice , clattering against the shanty and its adjoining shed with an uproar audible even above the sullenly rolling peals of heavy thunder . 
Talk about your California fruit ! what's the matter with good old Washington Territory ? he cried , tightly clenching one fist and holding a hailstone alongside by way of comparison . 
Look at that , will you ? Isn't it a beauty ? See the different shaded rings of white and clear ice . 
Having performed this duty to his own satisfaction , the professor came back to where the brothers were standing , viewing with them such of the storm as could be itemised . 
Good thing we've got a shelter ! cried Waldo , involuntarily shrinking as the plank roof was hammered by several mammoth stones of ice . 
Isn't that pretty nearly what people call a cloudburst , uncle Phaeton ? asked Bruno , curiously watching that receding mass of what from their present standpoint looked like vapour . 
Precisely , my dear boy , blandly agreed their mentor , rubbing his hands briskly , while peering through rain dampened glasses , after that departing storm . 
And I have scarcely a doubt but that a tornado of no ordinary magnitude will be the final outcome of this remarkable display . 
I always laughed at tales of hailstones large as hen's eggs , but now I know better . 
I hardly believe we have anything to fear from this tornado , my lads , he said , taking note of their uneasiness . 
But , do they always move towards the northeast , uncle Phaeton ? As a rule , yes but there are exceptions , of course . 
And unless this should prove to be one of those rare ex er Look ! cried Waldo , with swift gesticulation . 
To the house ! cried the professor , raising his voice to overcome yonder sullen roar , which was now beginning to come their way . 
See ! The storm is drifting our way in deadly earnest ! And so it seemed , in good sooth . 
That roar was now as of a thousand heavily laden trains rumbling over hollow bridges , and the professor could only nod his approval when thus aroused from the dangerous fascination . 
Another minute , and the air ship was floating towards the rear of the balloon shaped cloud itself , each second granting the passengers a varying view of the wonder . 
And at the same instant the machine itself recoiled , shivering and creaking in all its cunning joints under a gust of wind which seemed composed of both ice and fire . 
Oh , I say ! gasped Waldo , when he could rally from the sudden blow . 
Air ! I'm choking ! gasped Bruno , tearing open his shirt collar with a spasmodic motion . 
Hold me fast ! echoed Waldo , clinging desperately to the life line . 
Sort of a hop , step , and jump , and that's a fact , agreed Waldo , now a bit more at his ease since that awful sense of suffocation was lacking . 
I thought all cyclones Tornado , my DEAR boy ! expostulated the professor . 
I thought they all went in holy hurry , like they were sent for and had mighty little time in which to get there . 
Take the destructive storm at Mount Carmel , Illinois , in June of . 
Trees were twisted off and doubled up like blades of dry grass . 
Mighty rocks were torn apart from the rugged hills , and huge boulders were tossed into air as though composed of paper . 
Just think of it , lads ! he cried , almost beside himself with enthusiasm . 
Is it surely this is not safe , uncle Phaeton ? ventured Bruno , as another retrograde gust of air smote their apparently frail conveyance with sudden force . 
Let's call it a day's work , and knock off , chimed in Waldo . 
Not any of that in mine , thank you ! I can wait . 
Did you ever witness the like ! awesomely cried Bruno , gazing like one fascinated . 
Once again the trio cleared their eyes and stared about , only to utter simultaneous cries of alarm . 
We will be sucked in and hasten , for life ! I can't , we're already in the suction ! CHAPTER III . 
Further sight was denied them . 
They were powerless to move a limb , save as jerked painfully by those shrieking currents . 
Breath was taken away , and an enormous weight bore down upon them , threatening to produce a fatal collapse through their ribs giving way . 
And then the marvellous truth flashed upon the brain of Phaeton Featherwit , almost robbing him of all power of speech . 
Once more came that awful sense of suffocation . 
In vain they struggled , fighting for breath , as a fish gasps when swung from its native element . 
While that horrid pressure endured , man , youth , and boy alike were powerless . 
There was little room left for doubting the wondrous truth , and yet belief was past their powers during those first few minutes . 
Swaying drunkenly from side to side , then tossing up and down , turning in unison with those fiercely whirling clouds , the aeromotor seemed at the point of wreck and ruin . 
Fortunately that ordeal did not long endure , and again relief came to those so sorely oppressed . 
To think that we are the ones selected for I say , uncle Phaeton . 
It may come far sooner than you think , and with results more disastrous than feeble words can tell . 
Just then came a rush of icy air , and Bruno pantingly cried I'm swelling up like Aesop's bullfrog ! CHAPTER IV . 
Sand and dirt and fragments of shattered rock whistled by in an apparently unending shower , only with reversed motion , flying upward in place of shooting downward to earth itself . 
Speech was utterly impossible under the circumstances , and the fate tossed voyagers could only cling fast to the hand rail , and hold those precious air tubes in readiness for the worst . 
A few seconds thus , then the tornado conquered , or else rose higher in partial defeat , for their progress was resumed , and comparative quiet reigned again . 
What is it , uncle Phaeton ? asked Bruno , rising to his knees in natural anxiety . 
Yes , hesitated Bruno , with an involuntary shiver , as he glanced around them upon those furiously boiling clouds , then cast an eye upward , towards yonder clear sky . 
Yes , but in what manner ? What'll we do when the cyclone goes bu'st ? cut in Waldo , with disagreeable bluntness . 
I only wish I could ensure your perfect safety by giving my own poor remnant of life No , no , uncle Phaeton ! cried the brothers , in a single breath . 
How cheerfully , if I only might ! insisted the professor , his homely face wearing an expression of blended regret and unbounded affection . 
But for me you would never have encountered these perils , nor ever Again he was interrupted by the brothers , and forced to leave that regret unspoken to the end . 
If nothing else , we have exploded one fallacy which has never met with contradiction , so far as my poor knowledge goes . 
And that is what , uncle Phaeton ? Observe , my lads , with a wave of his hand towards those whirling walls , and then making a downward motion . 
You see that we are floating in a partial vacuum , yet where there is air sufficient to preserve life under difficulties . 
Precisely the aerostat rests upon an air cushion amply solid enough to sustain far more than our combined weight . 
But what is the generally accepted view , my dear boys ? You tell , for we don't know how , frankly acknowledged Waldo . 
Well , it might be done yes , it might be done , and that with no very serious difficulty , my lad . 
How ? Why not try it on , then ? To meet with instant death outside ? sharply queried Bruno . 
It would be suicidal to make the attempt , even if we could which I doubt . 
If we were only like that ! the lad cried , longingly . 
Shall we take our chances , dear boys ? the professor was saying , in earnest tones . 
I believe there is a method of escaping from this hell chamber , although of what may lie beyond It can't well be worse than this ! huskily gasped Bruno . 
Anything everything just to get out o' here ! supplemented Waldo , for once all spirits subdued . 
It may be death for us all , even if we do get outside , gravely warned the professor . 
Bear that in mind , dear boys . 
It may be that not one of us will escape with life , after How much better to remain here ? interrupted Bruno . 
CHAPTER V. THE PROFESSOR'S UNKNOWN LAND . 
All around them raged and roared the mighty winds , while missiles of almost every description pelted and pounded both machine and inmates during those few seconds of extraordinary peril . 
Through it all the brothers were dimly aware of one fact uncle Phaeton was shrilly bidding them cling fast and have courage . 
Saved , saved , my lads ! screamed the professor , as his heart pet soared upward once more until well past the danger line . 
And we were in it ! huskily muttered Bruno , his lids closing with a shiver , as he averted his face , unwilling to see more . 
Heap sight worse than being in the soup , too , if anybody asks you , declared Waldo , beginning to rally both in strength and in spirit . 
No need , my gallant boy ! assured the professor , an instant later . 
Bruno and Waldo imitated his action , and , though no audible words were spoken , never were more heartfelt prayers sent upward , never more grateful thanks given unto the Most High . 
Is that so ? Then you really reckon For one thing , my lad , we are now fairly entered upon a terra incognita , so far as our own race is concerned . 
In other words , behold , the Olympics ! Both Bruno and Waldo cast their eyes around , but only a circumscribed view was theirs . 
The shades of evening were settling fast , and on all sides they could see but mighty trees , rugged rocks , a mountain stream from whose pebbly bed came a soothing murmur . 
Nothing so mighty much to brag of , anyway , irreverently quoth Waldo , after that short lived scrutiny . 
Professor Featherwit took from the locker a supply of tinned goods , together with a patent coffee pot and frying pan , so convenient where space is scarce and stowage room precious . 
More to take his thoughts away from that loss than through actual curiosity in the subject offered by way of substitute , Bruno asked for further light upon the so called terra incognita . 
Of course it isn't really an unknown land , though , uncle Phaeton ? he added , almost apologetically . 
In this age , and upon our own continent , such a thing is among the impossibilities . 
This irregular range is known upon the map as the Olympics , and , rising to the height of from six to eight thousand feet , shut in a vast unexplored area . 
One of the Lost Tribes of Israel , shouldn't wonder , drawlingly volunteered Waldo , stifling a yawn , and forced to rub his inflamed eyes with a surreptitious paw . 
A BRACE OF UNWELCOME VISITORS . 
What is it ? What can it mean ? asked Bruno and Waldo , almost in the same breath , as those fierce echoes died away in the distance . 
Professor Featherwit made no immediate reply , but by the glow of yonder camp fire he fumbled inside the magic locker , fetching forth firearms , then speaking in hushed tones Wait . 
Prepared though they now were , neither brother could refrain from shrinking and shuddering , so hideously that cry sounded in their ears . 
But their uncle spoke in cool , clear tones There is nothing supernatural about that , my lads . 
A panther or mountain lion , I dare say , scenting the fumes of our cookery , and coming to claim a share . 
Then it isn't Nothing spookish , uncle Phaeton ? ventured Waldo , in slightly unsteady tones . 
Then followed a period of utter silence , during which their eyes roved restlessly around , striving to sight the four footed enemy ere an actual attack could be made . 
One mad wrestle , in which both lads were overthrown , then the gaunt and muscular brute stretched its length in a shivering throe , dead even while it strove to slay . 
No fault of his , though ! giving that carcass a kick as he spoke . 
An ugly customer , indeed , if we had given him anything like a fair show , gravely uttered the professor . 
Only for your prompt assistance , my dear boys , what would have become of poor me ? We acted on our own account , as well , please remember , uncle . 
It was a headless body upon which he gazed , ragged fragments of skin and a few splinters of bone alone remaining to tell that a solid skull had so recently been thereon . 
Although I am rather puny myself , boys , with this neat little contrivance I could fairly well hold my own against man or beast , he modestly averred . 
He means well , uncle Phaeton , assured Bruno , in lowered tones . 
He would not knowingly hurt your feelings , sir , but may I speak out ? Why not ? quickly . 
And , after all , what has happened to us thus far may not seem so utterly incredible after our explorations are completed . 
Waldo took greater pleasure in viewing the mountain lion towards whose destruction he had so liberally contributed , but when he spoke of removing the skin , Bruno objected . 
Why take so much trouble for nothing , Waldo ? Even if we could stow the pelts away on board , they would make a far from agreeable burden . 
Then you believe that uncle Phaeton is really in earnest about exploring this region , Bruno ? He most assuredly is . 
And yet the worthy professor had no more enthusiastic acolyte than this same reckless speaking youngster , when the truth was all told . 
Beginning to feel as though you could turn in for all night , eh , my boys ? came his cheery greeting . 
Well , somehow I do feel as though 'the sandman' had been making his rounds rather earlier than customary , dryly said Waldo , winking rapidly . 
I believe there must have been a bit more wind astir to day than common , although neither of you may have noticed the fact . 
Professor Featherwit chuckled softly while at work , but neither he nor Bruno made reply in words . 
You've had a rough bit of experience this day , and there may be still further trouble in store , here in this unknown land . 
Better make sure of a full night's rest , and thus have a reserve fund to draw upon in case of need . 
Even a ghost , or a goblin , do you reckon , uncle Phaeton ? Should such attempt to intrude , yes . 
Go to sleep , you young rascal ! But that proved to be far more readily spoken than lived up to . 
Tried to ram its nose in one of my pockets , and of course I had to take him in out of the wet . 
I'll put a tin ear on you , Amerigo Vespucius ! All right we'll have a merry go together , after you've cleaned the trout for cooking , lad , laughed his elder . 
And then , with deft touch , that same hand held his garment far enough for its mate to let slip a wriggling trout adown his brother's back . 
Why , just think of it , will you ? he declaimed , as well as might be with mouth full of crisply fried mountain trout . 
Button up , or you'll turn to be a Sorry cus tomer , old man , came the swift retort , with a portentous frown . 
But , joking aside , why not ? With such hunting and fishing , I'd be willing to sign a contract for a round year in this region . 
And it was with an eye single to this very adventure that I laboured to devise and perfect yonder machine . 
A marvel in itself , uncle Phaeton . 
Only for that , where would we have been , yesterday ? seriously spoke the elder Gillespie . 
And where you'll catch a precious hiding , without you let up harping on that old string it's way out of tune already , old man , Tit for tat . 
Excuse us , please , uncle Phaeton . 
We're like colts in fresh pasture , this morning , brightly apologised Bruno , for both . 
It is an undisputed fact that there are hundreds upon hundreds of square miles of terra incognita , lying in this corner of Washington Territory . 
No white man ever fairly penetrated these wilds , even so far as we may have been carried while riding the tornado . 
Or , if so , he assuredly has never returned , or made known his discoveries . 
Provided there was anything beyond the ordinary to see or experience , shouldn't we add , uncle ? suggested Waldo , modestly . 
There is , there must be ! No matter how wildly improbable their traditions may seem in our judgment , it only takes calm investigation to bring a fair foundation to light . 
Of course there may be something of exaggeration in all this , admitted the enthusiastic professor . 
Undoubtedly , there is at least a fair spice of that but , even so , enough remains to both waken and hold our keenest interest . 
Listen , and take heed , my good lads . 
That might serve , but unfortunately , we have only the one , and we are three in number , boy . 
Only two , now I'm squelched ! sighed the jester , faintly . 
If the professor heard , he heeded not . 
Bruno , ever sensitive through his affectionate reverence for their uncle , caught the youngster , and cast him to earth , whereupon Waldo pantingly cried Go on , please , uncle Phaeton . 
But Professor Featherwit declined , his foxy face wrinkling in a bashful laugh . 
Whether so intended or not , he had been brought down to earth from that dizzy flight , and now was fairly himself again . 
So it is said , and so follows the almost universal belief . 
Yet I have seen , felt , cooked , tasted , and ate to its last morsel a steak from a mammoth . 
And so , if we should happen to discover one or all of those supposedly extinct creatures here in this terra incognita , I would be overjoyed rather than astounded . 
May I give you my idea of it all ? CHAPTER VIII . 
A DUEL TO THE DEATH . 
You will have to clear up , lads , for I must make such few repairs as are necessary to restore the aerostat to a state of efficiency . 
So long as that remains in serviceable condition , we will always have a method of advance or retreat . 
Without it well , I'd rather not think of the alternative . 
That dry tone and quiet sentence did more than all else to impress the brothers with a sense of their unique position . 
Times beyond counting they had been assured by the natives that no mortal could fairly penetrate that vast wilderness . 
And yet the inland sea sounds natural enough . 
We know , too , that there are such things as underground rivers , outside of Jules Verne's yarns . 
But those animals , or reptiles , which ? Both , I believe , answered Bruno , with a subdued laugh . 
That's all right , old man . 
I never was worth a continental when it came to such things . 
A rumbling roar broke forth from the further side of that mountain stream , and as the dense bushes beyond were violently agitated , the hill buffalo wheeled that way with marvellous rapidity . 
Although this was their first glimpse of Old Eph in his native wilds , both brothers entertained a very respectful opinion of his prowess . 
The boys quickly reached the flying machine and gripped the Winchester rifles which Professor Featherwit had drawn forth from the locker at first sight of the dangerous game . 
Thus armed , they felt ready for whatever might come , and stood watching yonder rivals with growing interest . 
It means a fight unto the death , I think , whispered the professor . 
It's dollars to doughnuts on the bear , predicted Waldo . 
With marvellous activity for a brute of his enormous bulk and weight , the grizzly recovered its feet , then lumbered forward with clashing teeth and resounding growls . 
For that this was destined to be a duel to the very death not one of those spectators could really doubt . 
That encounter may have been purely accidental , but the creatures fought like enemies of long standing . 
A brief pause , then Professor Featherwit swiftly reloaded his gun , sending another shell across the stream , this time more as a boon than as punishment . 
Smitten fairly in the forehead , the bull dropped as though beneath a bolt of lightning , life going out without so much as a single struggle or a single pang . 
Twas better thus , declared the professor , as Waldo gave a little ejaculation of dismay . 
He must have bled to death in a short time , and this was true mercy . 
Besides , buffalo meat is very good eating , and the day may come when we shall need all we can get . 
Just as soon as we can put all in readiness , he continued , I am going to leave this spot . 
My first wish is to thoroughly test the aerostat , to make certain it has received no serious injury . 
Without raising any objections , the brothers fell to work , Bruno looking after the flesh , while Waldo undertook to supply the fish . 
That was but fair , since he had been cheated out of catching the first mess . 
Grim and forbidding those mountains looked as the air ship sailed swiftly over them , opening up a wider view when the bare , rugged crest was once left fairly to the rear . 
All at once he gave a half stifled cry , partly rising in his excitement , then crying aloud in thrilling tones The sea , an inland sea ! CHAPTER IX . 
This proved to be considerable , although it needed but a single look into the professor's face to learn that his eager hopes and exalted anticipations fell far short of realisation . 
Well , it's a sea all right , generously declared Waldo , giving a vigorous sniff by way of strengthening his words . 
I can smell the salt clear from this . 
Barring the salty scent , my dear boy , which probably finds birth in your kindly imagination . 
So , on the whole , perhaps 'twould be just as well to term it a lake . 
One of no mean dimensions , at any rate , uncle Phaeton . 
True , Bruno , with a nod of agreement , yet with forehead contracting into a network of troubled lines . 
Well , that's all right . 
It ought to've been one , even if it isn't . 
Professor Featherwit had resumed his scrutiny of yonder body of water , slowly turning his glasses while holding the air ship on a true course and even keel . 
Bruno took note of all this , and , failing to see aught to account for the symptoms with unaided eyes , at length ventured to speak . 
Yonder towards the lower end of the the lake , please . 
What is it all about , bless you , boy ? demanded Waldo , unable longer to curb his hot impatience . 
He had seen sufficient to catch the right angle , and then gave a suppressed snort as he took in the view . 
What is it you see , then , boy ? demanded Bruno , itching to take the glasses , yet straining his own vision towards that as yet far distant spot . 
Another floating tree trunk for Waldo ! he cried , with a short laugh , feeling far from unpleased that the intense strain upon his nerves should be thus lessened . 
A man ! And living , too ! Of course reckon I'd make such a howl about a floater ? bluntly interjected Waldo . 
But I'll do my crowing later on . 
Help ! For love of God , save me ! White , an American , too ! exploded Waldo , taking action as by brilliant inspiration . 
Hang over him , uncle , for I'm going to go fishing for a man ! Waldo was tugging at the grapnel and long drag rope . 
Make a jump and grab it , if you can't do better ! cried Waldo , intensely excited now that the crisis was at hand . 
Then , with a desperate grasp , a death clutch , he caught one arm of the grapnel , holding fast as the shock came . 
He was carried clear of the tree , and partly submerged in the water as his added weight brought the flying machine so much lower . 
Up , up , uncle Phaeton ! fairly howled Waldo , at the same time tugging at the now taut rope , in which he was ably seconded by his brother . 
CHAPTER X. RESCUED AND RESCUERS . 
Despite their very natural excitement , caused by this peril and its foiling , Professor Featherwit retained nearly all his customary coolness and presence of mind . 
This took but a few seconds , comparatively speaking , though , doubtless , each moment seemed an age to the rescued stranger . 
Then the professor slowed his ship , looking around in order to determine upon the wisest route to take . 
For one thing , it would be severe work to draw the stranger bodily up and into the aerostat . 
For another , unless he should grow weak , or suffer from vertigo , both time and labour would be saved by taking him direct to the shore of this broad lake . 
Sucked in by Jonah's whale , for ducats ! screamed Waldo , excitedly . 
More nearly , perhaps , than either of the boys , he realised what an awful peril this stranger had so narrowly escaped . 
It was far too early to turn that escape into jest , even for one naturally light of heart . 
He leaned over the hand rail , peering downward . 
Stand ready to let go when we come low enough , please , warned the professor , deftly managing his pet machine for that purpose . 
The stranger easily landed , then watched the flying machine with painfully eager gaze , hands clasped almost as though in prayer . 
In vain these were set aside . 
He seemed like one half insane from joy , and none who saw and heard could think that all this emotion arose from the simple rescue from the whirlpool . 
Wildly , far from coherently , the poor fellow spoke , yet something of the awful truth was to be gleaned even from those broken , disjointed sentences . 
For ten years an exile in these horrible wilds . 
For ten years not a single glimpse of white face or figure . 
For ten ages no intelligible voice , save his own and that , through long disuse , had threatened to desert him ! Ten years ! echoed Waldo , in amazement . 
Ten years , ten thousand years , I could almost swear , only for keeping the record so carefully , so religiously . 
One that would have cost me dearly had not you come to my aid so opportunely . 
Even Waldo was just a bit awed , and the stranger was first to break that silence with words . 
How did the mishap come about , is it , young gentleman ? he said , a wan smile creeping into his face , and relaxing those tensely drawn muscles once more . 
While I was trying to replenish my stock of provisions , and after this fashion , good friends . 
I was fishing from a small canoe , and as the bait was not taken well , I must have fallen into a day dream , thinking of no matter , now . 
Why didn't you let it go free , then ? The line was fastened to the prow , and I could not loosen it in time . 
I drew my knife , one of flint , but keen enough to serve , only to have it jerked out of my hand and into the water . 
Then , just as the fish must have plunged into the suck , I abandoned my canoe , jumping overboard . 
That's just what I was wondering about , declared Waldo , with a vigorous nod of his head . 
Yet we found you there ? Because I am a wretchedly poor swimmer . 
I managed to reach a drift which had not yet fairly entered the whirl , but I could do nothing more towards saving myself . 
Then you can guess the rest , gentlemen . 
And the canoe ? demanded Waldo , content only when all points were made manifest . 
I saw it dragged down the centre of the suck , with an involuntary shiver . 
The fish must have plunged into the underground river , whether willingly or not I can only surmise . 
A tremulous sigh escaped those bearded lips , and their owner drew closer to the wiry little aeronaut , plainly drawing great comfort from that mere contact . 
And with like ease uncle Phaeton lifted one of those hairy arms to rest it over his own shoulders , speaking briskly the while . 
There is only one way of demonstrating the truth more clearly , my youthful inquisitor , and that is by sending you on a voyage of exploration . 
Are you willing to make the attempt , Waldo ? Not this evening some other evening , maybe ! drawing back a bit , with a shake of his curly pate to match . 
But , I say , uncle Phaeton Allow me to complete my say , first , dear boy , with a bland smile . 
That is easily done , though , for it merely consists of this yonder sink , or whirlpool , is certainly the method this lake has of relieving itself of all surplus water . 
Everything points to a subterranean river which connects this lake with the Pacific Ocean . 
Wonder how long I'd have to hold my breath to make the trip ? CHAPTER XI . 
ANOTHER SURPRISE FOR THE PROFESSOR . 
The stranger laughed aloud at this , then seemed surprised that aught of mirth could be awakened where grief and despair had so long reigned supreme . 
More than ever to be guarded now , since the words spoken by this exile . 
But uncle Phaeton was a fairly keen judge of human nature , and possessed no small degree of tact . 
Divining the real cause of that dread , he took the easiest method of allaying it , speaking briskly as he moved across to the aerostat . 
Bear the gentleman company , my lads , while I manage the ship . 
You will know what signals to make , and I can contrive the rest . 
Again the recluse laughed , but now it was through pure joy , such as he had not experienced for long years gone by . 
He was not to be deserted by his rescuers from the whirlpool , and that was comfort enough for the moment . 
It will be perfectly safe here , the exile hastened to give assurance , as that landing was made . 
Then , too , this is the only spot nigh at hand from which a hasty ascent could well be made , even with such an admirable machine as yours . 
Ah , me ! with a long breath which lacked but little of being a sigh , as he keenly , eagerly examined the aerostat . 
What ? with undisguised surprise in face as in voice . 
Give the poor fellow his own way until he has had time to rally , boys , muttered uncle Phaeton , in lowered tones , before following that lead . 
Mr. Edgecombe vanished , but not for long . 
Then , showing a light , formed of fat and twisted wick in a hollowed bit of hardwood , he begged his rescuers to enter . 
With only that smoky lamp to shed light around the place , critical investigation was a matter of time and painstaking , although a general idea of the cavern was readily formed . 
High overhead arched the rocky roof , blackened by smoke , and looking more gloomy than nature had intended . 
Professor Edgecombe ! he again exclaimed , grasping those roughened hands to press them cordially . 
I ought to have recognised you at sight , no doubt , since I have watched your ascents time and time again . 
The exile smiled faintly , shaking his head and giving another sigh . 
Ah , me ! 'twas vastly different , then . 
I only marvel that you should give me credit when I lay claim to that name , so long it has long faded from the public's memory , sir . 
But uncle Phaeton shook his head , decidedly . 
No , no , I assure you , my friend far from it . 
Whenever the topic is brought to the front whenever aerostatics are discussed , your name and fame are sure to play a prominent part . 
Then , more hearts than one felt sore and sad at thoughts of your untimely fate . 
A fate infinitely worse than ordinary death such as was credited me , huskily muttered the exile . 
Professor Featherwit thoroughly appreciated the interruption which came through Waldo's lips just at that moment . 
And attached to this weapon was another , hardly less curious a knife formed of copper , with heft and blade all from one piece of metal . 
Here is the rest of the outfit , said Edgecombe , holding forth a bow and several feathered arrows with obsidian heads . 
Professor Featherwit gave a low , eager cry as he handled the various articles , both face and manner betraying intense delight , which found partial vent in words a little later . 
The bow and arrows I could manage fairly well , after busy practice . 
They have saved me from more than one hungry night . 
But as for the rest You might have worn the Is it a ghost dance shirt , though ? hesitatingly asked Waldo , gingerly fingering the wadded tunic . 
Waldo , I'm ashamed of you , boy ! almost harshly reproved the professor . 
I took these all from an Indian I was forced to kill in order to save my own life . 
Cooper Edgecombe turned away , and the professor improved the opportunity by muttering to the brothers Careful , lads . 
This happened in Washington Territory . 
THE STORY OF A BROKEN LIFE . 
Uncle Phaeton , intensely chagrined , hastened to apologise for his luckless break , but Cooper Edgecombe cut him short , asking that the matter be let drop for the time being . 
I will talk I feel that I must tell you all , or lose what few wits I have left , he declared , huskily . 
Bruno remained behind , in obedience to a hint from the professor , lest the exile should dread desertion , after all . 
Take these in and open them , Waldo , said the professor , selecting several cans from the stock in the locker . 
Poor fellow ! 'Twill be like a foretaste of civilisation , just to see and smell , much less taste , the fruit . 
Killed the redskin , he said , and I really reckon he meant it . 
Why not , pray ? But an Aztec , boy ! exclaimed the bewildered savant , unable to pass that point . 
Professor Featherwit followed shortly after , finding the exile busy preparing food , looking and acting far more naturally than he had since his rescue from the whirlpool . 
Taken all in all , that was far from a pleasant or enjoyable meal . 
A sense of restraint rested upon each one of that little company , and not one succeeded in fairly breaking it away , though each tried in turn . 
No need to ask what was the matter , for that eager gaze , those quivering fingers , were enough . 
And , as covert glances told them , never before had their eyes rested upon mortal being so intensely happy as was the long lost aeronaut then and there . 
At a sign from the professor , Bruno and Waldo silently arose and left the cavern , bearing their guardian company to where the air ship was resting . 
And there they busied themselves with making preparations for the night , which was just settling over that portion of the earth . 
Presently Cooper Edgecombe appeared , the empty pipe in hand , held as one might caress an inestimable treasure , a dreamy , almost blissful expression upon his sun browned face . 
I thank you , sir , more than tongue can tell , he said , quietly , as he restored the pipe to its owner . 
I can sympathise with you , at least in part , my friend . 
But Waldo never lacked for words , and spoke out That's all right , sir we can listen as long as you can chin chin . 
Tell us all about well , what's the matter with that big Injun ? Quiet , Waldo . 
Say what best pleases you , my friend . 
You can be sure of one thing , sympathetic listeners , if nothing better . 
With a curious shiver , as though afflicted with a sudden chill , Edgecombe turned partly away , figure drawn rigidly erect , hands tightly clasped behind his back . 
A brief silence , then he spoke in tones of forced composure . 
Let that pass , though . 
The day was beautiful , but almost oppressively warm , and , as they so frequently wished , I let my dear ones up in the balloon , securely fastening it below . 
And then God forgive me ! I went back to town for something I forget just what , now . 
A sudden storm came up . 
Knowing how vain must be any attempt to offer consolation , the trio of air voyagers said nothing , and presently Cooper Edgecombe spoke . 
They dragged me away , but 'twas too late to cheat my miserable vengeance . 
That hound was dead , but my darlings were gone , for ever ! Another pause , then quieter , more coherent speech . 
God alone knows whither my wife and child were taken . 
No mortal man could succeed , even when urged on by such a motive as mine . 
Then I determined upon another course . 
I worked and slaved until I could procure another balloon , as nearly like the one I lost as might be constructed . 
Perhaps I was little wonder if so , admitted Edgecombe , turning that way , with a wan smile lighting up his visage . 
I could no longer reason . 
I had but that one grim hope , to eventually discover what time and exposure to the weather might have left of my lost loves . 
Then , after so long waiting , the storm came , blowing in the same direction as that other . 
I cut my balloon loose , and let it drift . 
I looked and waited , hoping , longing , yet failing ! I was wrecked , here in this wilderness . 
My balloon was carried away . 
I failed to find aught ! Cooper Edgecombe turned towards the air ship , with a sigh of regret . 
If one had something like this then , I might have found them , even alive ! But now too late eternally too late ! CHAPTER XIII . 
THE LOST CITY OF THE AZTECS . 
Uncle Phaeton was more than willing to do the honours of his pet invention , and this afforded a most happy diversion , although the deepening twilight hindered any very extensive examination . 
Well , if he's looney , it's only on some points , not as the whole porker , anyway , confidentially asserted Waldo , when an opportunity offered . 
Coax him to tell how he knocked the redskin out , uncle Phaeton . 
Only for that nearly impassable wall , the entire earth would be overrun and dominated by these monsters in human guise . 
You may possibly find something of interest in these , too , dear sir , although I have given them rather rough usage . 
Uncle Phaeton rubbed his hands briskly , shifting his weight hurriedly from one foot to its mate , then back again , the very personification of eager interest and growing conviction . 
Not a word , my dear boys , he hastened to plead . 
I had to do something or or explode ! I feel better , now . 
I can behave myself , I hope . 
And their garb , the weapons they bore ? asked the professor . 
Worse than those blessed 'sour us' and cousins , he confided to his brother , in a whisper . 
Reckon it's all right , Bruno ? Uncle isn't eh ? But uncle Phaeton paid them no attention , so deeply was he stirred by this wondrous revelation . 
By some it was claimed that this ancient city owed its primal existence to a fragment of the Aztecs , driven from their native quarters in Old Mexico . 
And words fell rapidly from his lips the while , only a portion of which need be placed upon record in this connection , however . 
I never ate drugs in that shape , sir . 
I have but one excuse this wondrous Good night ! I'm going to bed before I add to my new reputation as a blessed idiot , no less ! CHAPTER XIV . 
Not alive I have long since abandoned that faint hope . 
Edgecombe flinched , as one might when a rude hand touches a still raw wound . 
But they , my wife , my baby girl , they could never have lived as I have existed . 
Nevertheless , there was one good effect following that talk . 
Still , nothing was definitely settled that evening , and at a fairly respectable hour before the turn of night , the air voyagers were wrapped in their blankets and soundly slumbering . 
Of course we'll keep in touch with you , here , friend , and take no decisive move without your knowledge and consent . 
Our fate shall be yours , and your fate shall be ours . 
No I don't mean just that . 
And then the wondrous truth ! Behold ! he cried , shrilly , pointing as he spoke . 
Hurrah ! he cried , snatching off his cap and waving it enthusiastically , as the air ship floated onward at ease . 
At last ! Found we've discovered it at last ! And all is true , all is true ! Found what , uncle Phaeton ? asked Waldo , a bit doubtfully . 
The professor gave a great start at this almost reluctant suggestion , shrinking back with a look which fell not far short of being horrified . 
But then he rallied , forcing a laugh before speaking . 
No , no , Bruno . 
All conditions are lacking to form the mirage of the desert . 
And , too everything was so distinct and clearly outlined that one could Fairly feel those blessed bow arrows tickling a fellow in the short ribs , vigorously declared the younger Gillespie . 
Both boys and girls galore , I expect , Kid but you needn't borrow trouble on either score . 
Are we going to land , uncle Phaeton ? queried Bruno , taking note of that preoccupation , which might easily prove dangerous under existing circumstances . 
That question served to recall the professor to more material points , and , after a keen , sweeping look around , he nodded assent . 
Yes , as soon as I can discover or secure a fair chance . 
I wish to see more I must secure a fairer view of the of yonder place . 
Time enough , lad , time enough , since we are going to land , coolly assured the professor , deftly manipulating the steering gear and still curying around those tree crowned hills . 
Not until the landing was effected and all made secure , did Professor Featherwit speak again . 
Then it was with gravely earnest speech which suitably affected his nephews . 
Above all things , my dear lads , bear ever in mind this one fact , we are not here to fight . 
We do not come as conquerors , weapons in hand , hearts filled with lust of blood . 
That's what's the matter with Hannah's cat ! cheerfully chipped in the irrepressible Waldo . 
To all seeming , the human foot had never ventured here , nor were any marks or spoor of wild beasts perceptible on either side . 
Behold ! huskily gasped the professor , intensely excited , yet still able to control the field glass through which he was eagerly scanning yonder marvels . 
Of course they couldn't distinguish our faces , and our bodies were fairly well hidden . 
And , even more , of course , they must be totally ignorant of all such things as flying machines and the like . 
Poor , ignorant devils ! sympathetically sighed the youngster . 
Bruno listened with greater interest than his brother could summon at will . 
No sign of a white face , male or female , rewarded his efforts , and he turned an inquiring gaze upon the youngster . 
Waldo was peering from beneath the shade of his hand , but now drew back with a long breath , to slowly shake his head . 
He smilingly shook his head , while gazing kindly , then spoke I myself might have made the same error , Waldo , but you surely were in error , for once . 
And , no doubt , Waldo , you saw just such another a bit ago . 
But the youngster was not so easily shaken in his own opinion . 
There were a couple of 'em , not just such another , uncle . 
In vain the field glass was fixed upon that particular point . 
Could it actually be they ? muttered Bruno , face pale and eyes glittering with intense interest . 
And that means a complete host so long as we are backed up by the air ship , declared Waldo , in his turn . 
Those fellows ! with a sniff of true boyish scorn for aught that was not fully up to date . 
You forget how the Aztecans fought Cortez and his mailed hosts . 
Yet these are one and identical , so far as valour and training and blood can go . 
There must be no fighting , for or against . 
Thus they were given a better opportunity for thinking of and then discussing the new marvel . 
Again did Waldo vow that his eyes had not befooled him . 
Again he positively asserted that he had seen two white women , wearing blonde hair in loose waves far adown their backs . 
It is possible , though scarcely credible , admitted uncle Phaeton , in grave tones , as he wrinkled his brows after his peculiar fashion when ill at ease in his mind . 
Edgecombe lived through just such another experience though , to be sure , he was a man of iron constitution , while they were far more delicate , as a matter of course . 
Still , it may have happened so ? persisted Bruno , taking a strong interest in the matter . 
You would not call it too far fetched , uncle ? No. It may have happened . 
I would rather call it marvellous , yet still possible . 
And if so There is but a single answer to that supposition , uncle they must be rescued from captivity ! forcibly declared Bruno . 
That's right , confirmed Waldo . 
Of course all women and girls I mean other people's kin are a tremendous sight of bother and worry , and all that but we're white , and so are they . 
We must rescue them there's nothing else to do , again emphasised the elder Gillespie . 
That is no doubt the proper caper , speaking from your boyish point of view , my generous hearted nephews but just how ? dryly queried the professor . 
Have you arranged all that , as well , Bruno ? You surely would not abandon them , uncle Phaeton ? asked the young man , something abashed by that veiled reproof . 
To such a horrible fate , too ? A fate which they must have endured for fifteen years , provided your theory is correct , Bruno , with a fleeting smile . 
Don't mistake me , lads . 
I am ready and willing to do all that a man of my powers may , provided I see just and sufficient cause for taking decisive action . 
We are not certain that there are white women yonder . 
Or , if white women , that they are captives . 
Or , if captives , that they would thank us for aiding them to escape . 
Why , uncle Phaeton ! Think of Mr. Edgecombe , and how I am thinking of him , and I wish to think yet a little longer , quietly spoke the professor . 
keep a lookout , lads , and if you see aught of Waldo's fair women , pray notify me . 
I will do it ! were his first words . 
Yes , I will do it ! Do what , uncle Phaeton ? asked Waldo , with poorly suppressed eagerness , as he turned towards his relative . 
Go after Cooper Edgecombe , bringing him here in order that he may , sooner or later , solve this perplexing enigma . 
Come , boys , we may as well start back towards the aerostat . 
AN ENIGMA FOR THE BROTHERS . 
In place of the indulgent smile for which he was playing , Waldo received a frown , and directly thereafter the professor spoke in tones which could by no possibility be mistaken . 
Come with me , both of you . 
I am going back to the aerostat , and I dare not leave you boys behind . 
Not until the trio was fairly within the gulch did the professor speak again , and then but a brief sentence or two . 
Give me time to weigh the matter , lads . 
Possibly I may agree , but don't try to hurry my cooler judgment , please . 
Waldo gave his brother an eager nudge at this , gestures and grimaces being made to supply the lack of words . 
Never touched me ! he cried , scrambling to his feet ere a hand could come to his aid . 
In fact , it might be dangerous to start while so many of the Aztecs are upon the lookout , came the unexpected addition . 
I believe it would be vastly better not to leave here until shortly before dawn , to morrow . 
Professor Featherwit had resolved to fetch Cooper Edgecombe to the scene of interest , in order to give him at least a fair chance to solve the enigma which was perplexing them all . 
But bear ever in mind the conditions , lads , was his earnest conclusion . 
I place you upon your honour to take all possible precautions against being discovered , or even running the least unnecessary risk during my absence . 
Don't let that bother you , uncle Phaeton , Waldo hastened to give assurance . 
so well , he feared to draw the reins too tightly lest they give way entirely . 
So it was decided , and at a fairly early hour the trio lay down to sleep . 
Touch and go ! cried Waldo , with a vast inhalation as he watched the aeromotor sail away with the swiftness of a bird on wing . 
As a matter of course , he would not attempt to return except under cover of night , or in the early dawn of another day . 
All that had been thoroughly discussed and provided for the evening before , and was barely touched upon by the brothers now . 
The sun was in your eyes , and you let mad fancy run away with your better judgment , boy , he decided , at length . 
If not , why what now ? For Waldo gave a low , eager exclamation , gripping the field glass as though he would crush in the reinforced leather case . 
And more than that , even . 
Fair lovely as a painter's dream ! almost painfully breathed the elder Gillespie . 
I never saw such a lovely Injun squaw , of course . 
Nobody but a fool would ever think different . 
No need of your playing the porker on legs , though , as I see . 
Give another fellow a chance to squint . 
were more than ordinarily fair and comely of both face and person . 
For the better part of an hour that slow promenade lasted , and until the women finally passed beyond their range of vision , the brothers took eager and copious notes . 
Then , in spite of the fact that scores of other figures still came within their field of vision , curiosity lagged . 
It's like watching a street medicine show , after hearing Patti or seeing Irving , muttered Bruno , drawing back and stretching his wearied limbs beyond possible discovery . 
Shortly after this , Bruno suggested a retreat to the rendezvous , and for a wonder his brother agreed without amendment . 
The brothers passed down to the gulch , which formed the easiest route to their refuge , saying very little , and that in lowered tones . 
The confirmation so recently won served to stir their hearts deeply , and neither boy could as yet see a way out of the labyrinth that discovery most assuredly opened up before them . 
Of course we can't leave them there to drag on such a wretched existence , declared Bruno . 
We couldn't do that , even though we learned they held no relationship to Mr. Edgecombe . 
What was to be done ? Disobey their uncle , or leave this lad to perish ? CHAPTER XVIII . 
SOMETHING LIKE A WHITE ELEPHANT . 
Its enormous weight would prove more than sufficient to end the contest ere it fairly began , while a slight stroke from those taloned paws would both slay and mutilate . 
A suicidal act it certainly appeared , yet one which could scarcely make his position more perilous . 
An awful roar burst from bruin as he felt that thrust , the blade sinking deep and biting shrewdly but then he plunged forward , striking savagely as he dropped . 
The Indian strove to leap backward an instant after delivering his stroke , but still clung to the spear shaft . 
This hampered his action to a certain degree , yet in all probability that stout ashen shaft preserved his life , which that wound would otherwise have forfeited . 
The stroke but brushed a shoulder , nor did a claw take fair effect , yet the stripling was felled to earth as though smitten by a thunderbolt . 
The grizzly was stone dead . 
The Indian seemed but a trifle better , though that came through compression rather than any actual wounds from tooth or talon . 
And the brothers themselves were fairly dismayed . 
Not until that rescue was finally accomplished did either lad give thought to what might follow but now they drew back a bit , interchanging looks of puzzled doubt and worry . 
True , there was a certain odd accent , a curious dwelling upon each syllable , but the words themselves were distinctly pronounced and beyond misapprehension . 
Bruno Gillespie , too , was recalling his uncle's earnest cautions , and now took prompt action . 
He quickly secured the weapons which had been scattered as the Indian fell before the grizzly's paw , then the brothers drew a little apart to consult together . 
What'll we do about it ? whisperingly demanded Waldo , keeping a wary eye upon yonder redskin . 
In like manner he saluted Waldo , after which he drew back a bit , still smiling genially , to add , in slowly spoken words You save Ixtli . 
Bear kill no you kill yes ! Ixtli glad . 
Sun Children great big heart full of love . 
Play we swallow it all , but keep your best eye peeled , old man , guardedly whispered Waldo . 
Fetch him along , yes or no , for it may be growing worse than dangerous right here , after so much shooting . 
You mean for us to Take the fellow along , and keep him with us , until uncle Phaeton comes back to finally decide upon his case , promptly explained Waldo . 
Of course we ought to've let him die ought , but didn't ! We couldn't then , wouldn't now , if it was all to do over . 
So watch him so closely that he can't play tricks even if he wishes . 
There was nothing better to propose , and though the job promised to be an awkward one to manage , Ixtli himself rendered it more easy . 
Victo , Glady , too . 
Ixtli know little , not much his heart feel big for Sun Children , all time . 
The sooner we're back where uncle Phaeton left us , where we can see a bit more of what may be coming , the safer my precious scalp will feel . 
This Injun No scalp , quickly interposed the Aztec , with a deprecatory gesture to match his words . 
Ixtli say no hurt white brothers . 
And Bruno brought up the rear as guard , eyes and rifle ready . 
THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN GOD . 
Nor were the Gillespie brothers worried by sound , sign , or token of more serious trouble from others of that strangely surviving race . 
That's plenty good luck for one soup bunch , quoth Waldo , yet adding a dubious shake of the head as he gazed upon their bronzed companion . 
And if it wasn't for this gentleman in masquerade costume Ixtli friend . 
Ixtli feel like heart brother , came in low , mellow accents from those smiling lips . 
There certainly was naught of guile or of evil craft to be read in either eyes or visage , just then but the brothers could not feel entirely at ease , even yet . 
Still , a fellow can't find the stomach to bowl him over like a hare , without a weenty bit of excuse , at least . 
That's it ! If he'd try to bolt , or would even jump on one of us , it would come far more easy . 
Pity if a couple of us can't keep him out of mischief without going that far . 
Then you really think That there's more ways than one of skinning a cat , oracularly observed Waldo . 
And , at the same time , we can be hugging up to him just as sweetly as though we knew he was on the dead level . 
Having reached this fair understanding , the brothers dropped their aside , and moved nearer the young Aztec . 
Ixtli gazed keenly into first one face , then the other , plainly enough endeavouring to read the truth as might be expressed therein , as related to himself . 
Ixtli was the only son of a famed warrior and chieftain of the Aztecan clans , by name Aztotl , or the Red Heron . 
Then followed more thanks and broken expressions of gratitude , all of which Waldo magnanimously waved aside as wholly unnecessary . 
Don't work up a sweat for a little thing like that , old man . 
Ixtli apparently thought in English pretty much as he spoke it , slowly , and with care . 
When hurried , his brain and tongue naturally fell back upon his native language . 
Sounds issued through his lips , but , despite all their animation , these proved to be but empty sounds to the eager brothers . 
And , divining the truth , Bruno checked his brother , himself acting as questioner , pretty soon striking the right chord , after which Ixtli fared very well . 
With this as starting point , the rest formed a mere question of time and perseverance . 
Struck by lightning , eh ? interpreted Waldo , who seemed born without the influence of poetry . 
That was long ago , and when Ixtli was but a child . 
The fair faced God must come soon , or too late ! sighed the Aztec , bowing his head in joined palms the better to conceal his evident grief . 
He has promised to come , but hurry ! They die they die ! This was hardly an acceptable stopping point , but questioning was of little avail just then . 
Well , we'll hold a tight grip on him , anyway , until uncle Phaeton gets back , finally decided Waldo , speaking for his brother as well . 
THE PROFESSOR AND THE AZTEC . 
Fortunately for all concerned , there proved to be no serious difficulty attached to that same holding . 
So far as outward semblance went , Ixtli was very well content with both present quarters and present companionship . 
He's white , even if he is red ! confidentially declared Waldo , at his first opportunity . 
As the night waned , preparations were made for sleeping , although it was agreed between the brothers that one or the other should stand guard in regular order . 
Not that I really believe the fellow would play us dirt , even with every chance laid open , Waldo admitted . 
Still , it's what uncle Phaeton would advise , and we can't well do less than follow his will , Bruno . 
Since we broke it so completely by tackling the grizzly , with a brief laugh . 
That's all right , too . 
Of course we'd ought to've skulked away like a couple of egg sucking curs , but we didn't , and I'm mightily glad of it , too . 
And after this light even the cautious Bruno began to regard him ere the first stroke of coming dawn could be seen above the eastern hills . 
But it was not until the early dawn that Bruno caught sight of the air ship , just skimming the tree tops , the better to escape observation by any Indian lookout . 
After that the rest came easily enough . 
Professor Featherwit took a keen , eager look at the slumbering redskin , then drew silently back , to whisper in Bruno's ear Guard well your tongue , lad . 
I have told him nothing , as yet , and we must consult together before breaking the news . 
For now we have had no rest , so I believe we would better lie down for an hour or two . 
Mr. Edgecombe appeared to be perfectly willing to do this , and soon the wearied men were wrapped in blankets and sleeping peacefully . 
At a covert sign from the professor , Bruno came to join in the talk , and his sympathy made the young Aztec even more communicative . 
And , through revenge for having their suit frowned upon , these wicked knaves had joined hands with the priest in trying to drag the Sun Children down from their lofty pedestal . 
Bruno gave a little exclamation at sight of the articles , then in eager tones he made known the daring idea which then flashed across his busy brain . 
We ought to make sure before taking action , uncle Phaeton . 
That would be too risky that would be almost suicidal ! And no use talking , with an obstinate shake of his head , as Bruno attempted to edge in an expostulation . 
I will never give my consent never ! Or hardly ever , supplied Waldo , coming that way like one who feels the proprieties have been more than sufficiently outraged . 
Of course , if you would rather remain here to watch the aerostat Let Bruno do that , uncle . 
He grew thoroughly disgusted with what he saw over yonder , yesterday , placidly observed the youngster . 
His anger took the shape of pride and of heart love . 
Cooper Edgecombe seemed as wax in their hands , not utterly deprived of consciousness , but rather like one dazed by some totally unexpected blow . 
He made not the slightest resistance , yielding to each impulse given , shivering and weak as one just rallying from an almost mortal illness . 
With each minute that elapsed Cooper Edgecombe gained in bodily powers , and while his mental strength was slower to respond , that proved to be a blessing rather than otherwise . 
Only when fairly well assured that the sufferer would not attract unwelcome attention their way through too boisterous shouting , did the professor draw far enough away for quiet consultation with his nephews . 
Professor Featherwit now gleaned from his nephews pretty much all they could tell him concerning sights and events since his departure in quest of the exile . 
That proved to be very little more than he had already learned , and contained still less which seemed of especial benefit to that particular enigma awaiting solution . 
No the young Aztec might prove true at heart , even as indications went , but the risk of so trusting him would prove far too great . 
That's just because you haven't known and slept with him , like we have , declared Waldo . 
He's red on the outside , but he's got just as white a soul as the best of us , bar none . 
By so doing , we could make certain of their identity , the young man argued , earnestly . 
That , it appears to me , is the first step to be taken . 
For , in spite of the apparent recognition by Mr. Edgecombe , it is possible that no actual relationship exists . 
What of that ? bluntly cut in the younger Gillespie . 
Don't you reckon strangers'd like to take a little walk , just as well as any other people ? Patience , my lad , interposed the professor . 
While we seem in duty bound to lend aid and assistance to women in actual distress , we can only serve them with their own free will and accord . 
He spoke of the mighty chieftain , Prince Hua , and of the high priest , Tlacopa , who was , to all seeming , playing directly into the hands of the 'Tzin . 
But we could get to see and speak with them , Ixtli ? asked Bruno , eager to reach some fair understanding as to the future course of action . 
Keen eye , dem people . 
Find 'nother white skin bad ! You hear that , Bruno ? asked the professor , really relieved at such positive evidence in conflict with the rash proposition made by the young man . 
And if I wore the clothes you brought from the cavern , uncle Phaeton ? That's the ticket ! broke in Waldo , eagerly . 
Then , side by side , two Indian braves silently approached the aerostat , causing Professor Featherwit to make a hasty dive for his dynamite gun to repel a fancied onslaught . 
I could never find forgiveness should harm come to your mother's son , boy , he huskily murmured , his arm stealing about Bruno's middle . 
I'd far rather venture myself , and why not , pray ? as Waldo burst into an involuntary laugh . 
Then he turned upon Ixtli , a hand resting upon each shoulder while he gazed keenly into those lustrous dark orbs for a full minute in perfect silence . 
He shook off those far from steady hands , drawing his knife and with free fingers tearing open his dress above the heart . 
Strike you , Ixtli ? I'd just as soon smite my brother by birth ! And that's mighty right , too ! cried Waldo , impetuously . 
I really begin to believe that you are all in the right , while I alone am left in the wrong , frankly admitted the professor . 
Meantime , partly for the purpose of keeping the youngsters employed and thus out of the way of less harmless things , the professor suggested that the huge grizzly be flayed . 
I know that my loved ones are yonder . 
I would joyfully suffer ten thousand deaths by torture for the chance to speak one word to to them . 
And yet I know any such attempt would prove fatal to us all . 
The mere sight of I would go crazy with joy ! There is no necessity for repeating the various arguments used , pro and con , before the final agreement was reached . 
Tremulous , almost incapable of coherent speech , so intense was his agitation , Cooper Edgecombe sent many messages to his loved ones , begging for one word in return . 
And if nothing less would serve His voice choked , and only his feverishly burning eyes could say the rest . 
It was well past sunset ere the youngsters set forth from the rendezvous , accompanied a short distance by both Waldo and the professor but the parting came in good time . 
It would be worse than folly to add to the existent perils that of possible discovery by some prowling Aztec who might work serious injury to them one and all . 
A low voiced call sounded upon the night air , and Ixtli responded in much the same tone . 
The Aztec brave appeared to be explaining his unusually protracted absence , for he proudly displayed the great grizzly pelt , then exhibited the spear head from which protruded the tooth marked wood . 
Like one who was already familiar with the details , Bruno slowly lounged forward a pace or two , then in silence awaited the pleasure of his companion on that night jaunt . 
Ixtli was not many minutes in shaking off the Indian , and , almost staggering beneath his shaggy burden , moved away as though in haste to rejoin his family circle . 
Ixtli expressed great surprise when this fact became evident , and he showed uneasiness as to the welfare of his beloved patroness and kindly teacher . 
Now , if the usual guards were lacking , surely it portended evil , treachery , no doubt , at the bottom of which the paba and the 'Tzin almost certainly lurked . 
Dat good ! Him see first , dat bad ! Eye , ear , two both . 
You know , brother ? You mean that we are to listen and play spy , first , Ixtli ? asked Bruno , scarcely catching the real meaning of those hurried words . 
Come step like snow falls , brother . 
Who is it , first ? Victo , she one . 
Odder man , not know sure , but think Huatzin . 
He bad all bad ! Kill him , some day . 
If this was actually the Prince Hua , then he was a most brutal sample of Aztecan aristocracy , and at first sight Gillespie felt a fierce hatred for the harsh toned chieftain . 
That proved to be the cap sheaf , for Bruno could stand no more . 
Only the young man's unfamiliarity with the weapon preserved Prince Hua from certain death . 
As it was , he reeled , to fall in a nerveless heap upon the floor , while , with a startled cry , another Aztec broke away in flight . 
That sudden appearance and flight of another man took Ixtli even more by surprise than it did Bruno , for he never even suspected such a possibility , knowing Prince Hua so well . 
Still , the young brave was swift to rally , swift to pursue , sending a menace of certain death in case the fleeing cur should not yield himself . 
Just then Bruno had eyes and thoughts for the Sun Children alone , who quite naturally shrunk back in mingled surprise and alarm at his unceremonious entrance . 
All this rolled in swift words over Ixtli's lips , his warning finding completion before either of the women could fairly interrupt the young brave . 
But then the one whom Ixtli termed Victo spoke rapidly in his musical tongue , one strong white hand waving towards the now somewhat embarrassed Gillespie . 
He friend come save you , like save Ixtli , the Aztec hurriedly made reply , with generous tact speaking so that Bruno could comprehend as well as the women . 
He good all good ! Paba bad 'Tzin more bad be worse bad if stay here , Victo Glady . 
Thus given the proper cue , Bruno took fresh courage and , in as few words as might be , explained his mission . 
He wrote you that here it is , and Make hurry , quick ! sharply interposed Ixtli , as ominous sounds began to arise without the Temple of the Sun God . 
Dog git 'way , howl for more . 
Come here kill like gods be glad . 
With an evident effort Victo rallied , tones far from steady as she begged both young men to save themselves without thought of them . 
If found here 'twill be our ruin as well as your own . 
Go , and at once I fear that Lord Hua may He 'live yet , pronounced Ixtli , rising from a hasty examination o f the fallen chieftain . 
He will be wild for revenge , and I fear Go , and directly , Ixtli ! Bruno Gillespie was only too well assured that this latest fear had foundation on truth . 
hand wood , Huatzin had sufficient time to sight his assailant , and almost certainly had divined at least a portion of the truth . 
Come , brother , or too late , urged Ixtli , almost sternly . 
Save you , or Glass eyes call Ixtli dog liar . 
Come must run , no fight too big many for that . 
And so it seemed , when the young men rushed away from the lighted interior and gained the uncovered space beyond . 
Loud cries came soaring through the night from different directions , and dim , phantom like shapes could be glimpsed in hurrying confusion . 
Dat stop go back way came . 
Come ! Bruno roused himself with an effort , then yielded to the Aztec's guidance , crouching low as the brief bit of clear moonlight had to be traversed . 
A whispered word urged Bruno to imitate this action , and those friendly hands caught and steadied Gillespie as he took the drop . 
Ixtli show how play fool dat dog yes ! All right , my hearty . 
Is it a break for the hills ? I reckon I can break through . 
If not well , I'll leave some marks behind me , anyway ! No , no , dat bad ! Can't go to hills must hide , positively declared the young Aztec . 
Me show good place all dead but we . 
That proved to be a low , unpretending structure which was of no great extent , so far as Bruno's hasty look could ascertain . 
It was more of a scramble than a deliberate descent , for the gloom was complete , and Bruno had no time in which to feel for steps or stairs . 
Only for the aiding touch of his guide , he must have taken more than one awkward tumble ere that lower level was attained . 
Then a hand struck down the match , and a swift voice breathed Dey come dis way . 
See us hide come hunt , now , to kill ! CHAPTER XXIV . 
drew her child farther away , her right hand reaching forth to pluck a light yet effective spear from where it lay against the wall . 
Mother , mother ! faintly panted the maiden , plainly at a loss to comprehend all that had so recently transpired . 
Far differently acted the maiden , her figure trembling with fear and wonder commingled , her lips slightly blanched as she clung closer to her mother . 
Yet through all ran a touch of girlish curiosity which helped shape the words now crossing her lips . 
Gladys rallied more speedily than one might have expected , and she spoke with even greater interest than at first . 
And those awful warriors ! shivering as the war cries followed the muffled roar of the great drum . 
I would rather trust him than many another of thrice his years and warlike experience . 
With a low cry , Victo drew back a bit , weapon lowering as she recognised friend in place of enemy . 
It is you , Aztotl ? she spoke , in mellow tones . 
Not justly , nor through fault of your own , my good and true friend , the elder woman made haste to give assurance . 
Not even thy lips shall speak slander of Aztotl the True heart , my brother . 
With a swift advance the Red Heron caught the unarmed hand , to bend over it until his lips barely brushed the soft , perfumed skin . 
Then he sank to one knee , bowing his head until his brow touched the floor beneath her sandalled feet . 
Victo flushed warmly and drew back a little farther , for the memory of those words let fall by Gladys came back with unpleasant distinctness . 
It may be that Tezcatl lost his wits through strong waters , Sun Child , or even that he took evil pay from still more vile hands . 
You have seen the last of him , though , Child of Quetzal'l . 
Tezcatl sinned he has paid full forfeit . 
Almost as swiftly , Victo and the maiden followed , one through fear , the other through utter lack of fear , for herself . 
Venture no closer , on thy peril , chief ! Huatzin recoiled a bit , though that might have been more through surprise than because he feared this proud warrior . 
He gripped his knife hilt , and partly drew the blade from its supporting sash . 
A hissing oath escaped his lips , and he crouched a trifle , as a wild beast gathers its deadliest force prior to making a death leap . 
Darest thou bar my path , Aztotl ? he cried , hoarsely . 
What care I for laws ? Or for such as thou , Red Heron ? I will that such a thing shall be , and it comes to pass . 
And thou dare to bar my way , Aztotl ? Ay . 
By words if they prove sufficient . 
By force if called for . 
By death if worst must come even the death of a mighty chieftain like Lord Hua would not be too great a feat . 
For a brief space it seemed as though Huatzin would make a leap to which there could be but one termination , death to one or to both . 
But Aztotl coldly spoke on I have given you fair and friendly warning , Lord Hua . 
Go , now , while the path of peace lies open . 
Go , else I sound the call , and my guard will take you in charge , just as they would any other rascally intruder . 
Your precious son , for instance ? retorted the 'Tzin , viciously . 
The response was prompt indeed , an armed force advancing with weapons held ready , awaiting only word from commander to punish that rash intruder by hurling him to death over the terraces . 
As by a miracle they escaped disaster through rushing into a bushy treetop , and that fact served to steady the aeronaut's nerves . 
On guard , uncle Phaeton ! cried Waldo , making a lucky snatch at his cap , which one of the stiff boughs brushed off his head . 
That was the very lesson I needed . 
What in time is that , anyway ? As briefly as might be , the professor explained , and almost for the first time Waldo felt a thrill of dread . 
He beheld hundreds of armed shapes rushing to and fro , plainly looking for some intruder or other enemy , yet almost as certainly failing as yet to make the longed for discovery . 
Not until that moment had uncle Phaeton dared indulge in even the shadow of a hope . 
The awful alarm seemed proof conclusive that poor Bruno had been taken , through the treachery of Ixtli . 
Surely they cannot have captured Bruno , as yet ? huskily muttered uncle Phaeton , hungrily straining his eyes without reward . 
Phaeton Featherwit just then felt himself little less than a cold blooded assassin . 
Mr. Edgecombe was but little less deeply stirred , although his feelings were more of a mixture . 
I promise to save him if yet alive , and let me try , professor I beg of you , give me this chance to show my heartfelt gratitude . 
But Professor Featherwit shook his head in negation . 
That would only add to our trouble , friend . 
Knowing nothing of the dialect , you would be wholly at a loss . 
And , looking so entirely different in every respect , how could you hope to pass inspection ? All seems so confused , that I might surely it is worth trying . 
I could not wait longer , knowing that my loved ones You forgot that the lives of all depend upon our remaining at liberty , coldly interrupted Featherwit . 
Promise , sir ! I will , I do . 
Enough bear in mind that the rescue of your loved ones depend on our efforts . 
But no fish ever sent forth so wild a screech of mingled rage and terror as split the air just then . 
Although hardly realising what was happening , Professor Featherwit sent the aeromotor upward with a mighty jerk . 
The shock proving too much for that sash , Lord Hua fell back to earth , literally biting the dust , although he met with no bodily harm beyond sundry bruises . 
And , worse than all else , the air demon was now the target for both eyes and arrows , and , perforce , sailed swiftly away into the night . 
Ixtli spoke with a degree of earnestness which left no room for doubt , even if the young man's own keen sense of hearing had not given warning but an instant later . 
Gillespie heard the heavy doors open , then clang to again . 
He was fairly confident that some of the Aztecs had entered , although as yet the utter darkness hindered further recognition . 
What next , Ixtli ? he whispered , lips almost touching the face of his young guide , as they stood close together in the mirk . 
They can't take me alive ! Is it fight , or No fight yet , gently breathed the Aztec in turn . 
Dey look , dat not make sure find . 
Dey try see we try not see all time . 
Bruno felt convinced that there were other chambers turning at right angles to their present course , though it might have bothered the young man to give entirely satisfactory reasons for such belief . 
Ixtli did not flee fast nor far , in that first spurt , pausing shortly to turn face towards the rear , a low , musical chuckle coming through his lips . 
Dey come look , got no eyes for see in dark , he explained , barely loud enough for Bruno to catch his meaning . 
That warned them of added peril , and Ixtli's chuckle died abruptly away . 
They'll fetch us now , grimly muttered Bruno , shaking his fairly athletic shoulders and fingering the knife at his belt as though making preparations for an inevitable struggle . 
Dey look , we hide . 
No matter how vast the odds might show against him , he would put up a gallant fight as long as he could lift his hand or strike a blow . 
Still , he was by no means anxious for the crisis to arrive . 
There was little room left for doubting the truth . 
Perhaps Gillespie might have been better able to appreciate Ixtli's amusement had he even an inkling as to how this game of hide and go seek was fated to end . 
That an end must come , eventually , was a foregone conclusion . 
Best hide mebbe no find dat best try first . 
After like fashion , the Aztec sought cover on the opposite side of the passage . 
None too quickly , either for now the single searcher drew dangerously nigh , peering into every practicable hiding place on either side , before moving onward . 
In all probability , Ixtli's bold ruse would have proved a complete success , for the Aztec warrior showed no suspicion as he drew nearer but it was not to be thus . 
Human flesh and blood could endure no more , and Bruno flung the snake violently off , striking forcibly against that mass of dry bones as he did so . 
With a rattling clatter , the skeleton lost its frail coherence and tumbled outward , leaving Bruno fairly exposed within the niche . 
There is no sign here . 
If he saw aught , 'twas in a dream , I think . 
They have found the strange dog without ! he cried , sharply . 
Dis way , brother , the Aztec spoke , moving in the opposite direction , followed willingly enough by the now pretty well bewildered paleface . 
Whither are we going ? Bruno felt impelled to ask , after a few moments more of blind obedience . 
Not cat , assured Ixtli , in a soft toned whisper , as he divined the expectations entertained by his comrade in peril . 
All gone see what noise 'bout , yonder . 
You , me , all right . 
Best mek no big talk , dough . 
Nothing further was said until Ixtli again came to a halt , Gillespie giving a low exclamation as he felt what appeared to be a blank wall before them . 
Escape from the catacomb by the same route they had taken in seeking refuge there was entirely out of the question . 
This much Bruno gathered , then took his turn at the verbal oars . 
But we can't stay here , man , dear . 
Nothing to eat or to drink , and my friends worrying over us , outside . 
We've got to get out I have , at any rate . 
The only question is , just how , and where ? Dere one way go , Ixtli made reply , even his lowered tones betraying more than ordinary impressiveness , Bruno fancied . 
Mebbe easy , mebbe hard . 
Find dat , when try . 
Best be still , dough ! Bruno was ready enough to promise all that , just so action was being taken , his uneasiness being by far too deep for rest or repose . 
More on account of his uncle and his brother , though , than for his own safety . 
He had not yet lost hope of extrication from the perils which surely surrounded them , not quite abandoned hope of rescuing the Children of the Sun as well . 
Why ? What's going on up yonder ? And where are we , anyway ? Beneath the great teocalli , Ixtli made answer in his disjointed way of speaking . 
There the evil minded paba , Tlacopa , reigned supreme . 
Bruno thrilled to his centre with fierce indignation as he , little by little , gathered this information . 
Now their way was barred , and they could only wait . 
Unless would Bruno keep close guard over his tongue ? Yes . 
Anything , rather than remain wholly idle , like this . 
Stand up in teocalli , look on kill stone . 
And , too , a most abominable stench appeared to rise from the altar of death , and Bruno shrunk back with a shiver of disgust . 
No talk loud ! softly breathed Ixtli , gripping an arm with force . 
Dey kill , if find now . 
Look , dat one Tlacopa big priest , you call . 
And Ixtli certainly caught enough of their talk to alter his manner most materially . 
Come , quick ! he fiercely whispered in Bruno's ear , gripping an arm , and fairly forcing the young man to accompany his retreat . 
Not another word was spoken before the lower level was reached , and then Gillespie broke the ice , asking what was the matter . 
Never , while I live and draw breath ! CHAPTER XXVIII . 
Aztotl glanced upwards for a moment , then slowly spoke Such are the commands laid upon thy captain of guards , Daughter of Quetzal' , the Fair God . 
It must be thus , my good friend , she spoke , in low , even tones . 
The word hath come to a soldier , and obedience is his first duty . 
Not when obedience means leading to sacrifice That may never come , good Aztotl . 
We have committed no sin , in deed or in thought . 
The Mother of Gods will not lay claim to an innocent victim . 
Little by little , the maiden's terrors were calmed , and then she took position by her parent's side with a greater display of nerve than might have been anticipated . 
Through all , Aztotl waited , fiercely silent , held from open rebellion only by the influence of the woman whose very life was now menaced . 
And as the Sun Children stood before him , in readiness to comply with the commands issued by those in high authority , the Red Heron broke bonds . 
But Victo shook her head in slow negation . 
She was still cool of brain enough to realise how fatal such course would be in the end . 
If one deadly blow should be dealt , the end could be but one , annihilation to both defended and defenders . 
Then , too , she recalled the wondrous tidings brought the evening before by Ixtli and his comrade . 
In awed silence a vast number of Aztecs followed that little procession , silent as they , yet clearly anticipating events of far more than ordinary importance . 
And thus the foredoomed women were taken before the great stone of sacrifice , whereupon lay a snow white lamb , bound past the possibility of struggling . 
Not far distant stood Huatzin , head bandaged and face none the better looking for his floundering fall when his sash gave way the evening before . 
And as he caught the passing gaze of the woman whom he had so basely persecuted , a repulsive smile showed itself , the grin of a veritable fiend in human guise . 
Sternly cold , and outwardly unmoved , the captain of guards performed his sworn duty , then in grim silence awaited the end . 
And in like manner each man of that carefully selected band rested upon his arms . 
A brief pause , during which the utter silence grew actually oppressive , then the head priest lifted a hand as though commanding full attention before he should speak . 
To their evil influence he attributed the comparative failure of crops which had now cursed their fair people throughout the past years . 
Unto them , he claimed , belonged the evil credit of many untimely deaths which had covered so many proud heads with the ashes of mourning and of despair . 
To their door might be traced all of misfortune with which the favourite children of the mighty gods had been so sorely afflicted . 
In proud silence Victo listened to this deliberate arraignment , not deigning to interpose denial , or offer plea in self defence , until the paba was clearly at an end . 
And even then she gazed upon Tlacopa with eyes of scorn , and lips which curled with contempt . 
Who dares accuse us of wrong doing ? again demanded the Amazonian mother , speaking for her child as well , around whose waist her left arm was clinging as a needed support . 
Dropping his knife , Tlacopa grasped this vital organ , fiercely tearing it away , drawing back where all might see as be lifted the heart on high for inspection . 
Contrary to the expectations of Ixtli escape by way of the War God's temple was barred throughout the remainder of that eventful night . 
Slowly enough the time passed , yet it could hardly be called monotonous . 
In this manner Ixtli contrived to pick up quite a little fund of information , mainly through the confidences reposed in a certain favoured few of the brotherhood by the chief paba . 
And this , in turn , filtered through his lips after the chums once again retreated to the lower regions for both safety and comfort . 
He tell slave what say . 
He die for dem , easy ! But he not know all . 
He think drop from sun , to lead people back to light . 
Keeping thus upon the alert throughout the remainder of that night , the young men were able to take prompt action when the crisis drew nigh . 
Ixtli caught the first inkling of what was coming , and hastily sent Bruno away from the peepholes , dropping a word in his ear as they both prepared for clean work . 
As Ixtli truly said , such discovery would end in the paba's being slain by his befooled people . 
Their patience was sorely tried , even then , though a goodly portion of the blame belonged to their fears for the Sun Children , rather than to the actual length of waiting . 
Behold ! the gods hath marked their own ! cried the high priest , his harsh tones fairly filling the Hall of Sacrifice . 
They are guilty of all crimes laid at their door . 
They merit death , a thousandfold . 
She hath spoken unto me , as her worthy representative on earth . 
She who hath spoken once may deign to speak again . 
Yet , the oracle was not wholly silenced ! Talk out , or I will ! fiercely muttered Bruno , giving Ixtli a violent punch in the side . 
talk out for the Sun Children ! The young Aztec needed no further prompting , loving Victo and Glady as he did , hating and despising the high priest . 
How much more Ixtli might have said , had he been granted further grace , will never be known . 
This double appearance for Ixtli kept fair pace with his hot headed white brother caused no little stir , and added considerable to the partial bewilderment which had fallen over that audience . 
Prince Hua shouted forth savage threats , but he , as well as the paba , was fairly demoralised for the moment by the totally unexpected failure of their carefully laid schemes . 
For one of his fierce temper the Red Heron showed a marvellous coolness throughout that perilous retreat , and never more than during the first few seconds . 
Then a single injudicious word or too hasty movement might easily have precipitated a fight , where the vast audience would surely have brought disaster , whether the majority so willed or not . 
He could not help seeing that the danger was great . 
He felt certain that they could not retreat much farther without coming to blows , when the odds would be overwhelmingly against them . 
Yet never for an instant did he regret having taken such a decided step not for one moment did he give thought to himself . 
The crisis came , and the dogs of war were let loose . 
An arrow whizzed narrowly past the feathered helmet worn by the captain of the guards . 
So far not a single blow had been struck by the retreating party , although great provocation had been given them . 
More than one of their number was bleeding , yet all were afoot , and still capable of holding ranks . 
Then Bravest of the brave , a man among men in spite of his tender years , Ixtli laid down his life in defence of his idolised Victo . 
From one of that maddened rabble came a heavy stone , flung with all the power of a sinewy arm and great sling . 
Smitten fairly between the eyes , the poor lad's skull was crushed , as a giant hand might mash an eggshell . 
One gasping sigh , then the lad sunk to earth , dead ere he could fairly measure his length thereupon . 
Full in the throat Tlacopa was stricken , the broad blade of copper tearing a passage through , and the shaft following after for the greater portion of its length . 
Too late , save to show his comradeship . 
That heavy stone had only too surely performed its grim mission . 
Then came an awful outcry from the people , whom the sight of their high priest reeling in death had , for a few fleeting seconds , fairly stupefied . 
Cries which meant much to the living , and before which even that band of true hearts receded with slightly quickened pace . 
The fierce lust of vengeance now seized upon him , heart and brain . 
Entirely without firearms themselves , and in all probability ignorant of such an instrument of destruction , this might have produced a far more beneficial result under other circumstances . 
Louder than ever rose the voice of Lord Hua , after witnessing the fall of his ally , the high priest . 
In spite of the great odds against the body guards , he began to fear lest his intended prey should even yet slip through his evil clutches . 
Fiercer than ever rang forth his curses and imprecations upon the head of the Aztec who thus dared the vengeance of all the gods by lifting hand in arms against the anointed . 
Once again the heathen involuntarily recoiled , as death claimed a high victim . 
Once more the band of true hearts slightly quickened their pace towards the temple , now nigh at hand . 
Yet those lessened numbers never once betrayed fear , or doubt , or faltering . 
They knew their sworn duty , and like true hearts they trod that narrow path unto the very end . 
Although with gradually lessening numbers , the body guard remained practically the same . 
Up another flight of steps , then yet another , although the crazed rabble was not pressing them so very hard , just now . 
Five times the blood lapping mob dashed against the band of brothers . 
Five times they were hurled back , leaving more dead and dying there to mark the savage struggle . 
For the Sun Children , my brothers ! he cried , his voice rising even above that awful tumult and turmoil . 
Guard them with your lives ! Little need to waste breath in so adjuring . 
Of all thus enlisted , not one of the true hearts but proved worthy the trust . 
Not one brave who took care for his own life . 
Not one but was ready to die in order to save and thus far not a single wound had won so far as either Child of the Fair God . 
Time and again Aztotl warded away winged death as it sought to claim Victo for its prey . 
Those broad terraces bore ugly pools and irregular patches of red blood . 
The various flights of stone steps grew slippery and uncertain as they likewise began to steam . 
Yet forward and upward pressed the howling mob , and desperately fought the doomed body guard above . 
Faster fly the deadly missiles , too many by far for even the keenest eye to guard against them all . 
One and another of those gallant defenders drop away only because death had claimed them , not because of fear or of bodily anguish . 
Aztotl staggers , an arrow is quivering in his broad bosom , but still he fights on , dealing death with each blow of his blood dripping hand wood . 
A stone lays open his brow , but heavier and faster plays his terrible weapon . 
A javelin flashes briefly , then the red copper vanishes from sight , while the ashen shaft slowly dyes crimson , as the hot life blood issues . 
An awful melee , where the odds were momentarily increasing where one man was forced to do the work of a score where death inevitable awaited all , unless a miracle should intervene . 
ADIEU TO THE LOST CITY . 
Thus it came that no halt was made until the inland reservoir was reached , where there could be no possible danger in making a temporary landing . 
And then Bruno stole away in hot haste , both to wash his person and to reclothe it in garments not quite so ridiculous as he now felt that savage rig must appear . 
Just as though the little woman wasn't used to see fit outs like that , old man , mocked Waldo , the irrepressible . 
Naturally enough , Cooper Edgecombe seemed fairly crazed by his joy . 
Neither Aztotl the noble , nor Ixtli the gallant , could so soon be forgotten . 
And , luckily as it appeared , they were just in time to see that big suck drag another huge tree down into its ever hungry maw . 
Still , the air ship was inconveniently crowded , and that helped to cut explorations short . 
There is now a State of Washington . 
Within that State may be found a range , or system of mountains , known to the world as the Olympics . 
After all , I don't believe there is any such place or people , declared Doubting Thomas , nodding his head vigorously . 
Is that so ? mildly queried our good friend , Waldo . 
Let me give you a little pointer , old man . 
Once upon a time , a man by the name of John Smith was being tried for stealing a fat hog . 
So moral We six fairly honest people saw both the Lost City and its inhabitants . 
Scores of equally reliable persons never saw either . 
