This etext was prepared by Donald Lainson , charlie idirect . 
Lorna Doone , A Romance of Exmoor by R. D. Blackmore Preface This work is called a 'romance , because the incidents , characters , time , and scenery , are alike romantic . 
And in shaping this old tale , the Writer neither dares , nor desires , to claim for it the dignity or cumber it with the difficulty of an historic novel . 
more warmly coloured and quickened , than a reader would expect to find in what is called a 'legend . 
the exploits of Tom Faggus . 
CONTENTS I. ELEMENTS OF EDUCATION II . 
THE WARPATH OF THE DOONES IV . 
A VERY RASH VISIT V. AN ILLEGAL SETTLEMENT VI . 
HARD IT IS TO CLIMB VIII . 
A BOY AND A GIRL IX . 
THERE IS NO PLACE LIKE HOME X. A BRAVE RESCUE AND A ROUGH RIDE XI . 
TOM DESERVES HIS SUPPER XII . 
A MAN JUSTLY POPULAR XIII . 
MASTER HUCKABACK COMES IN XIV . 
A MOTION WHICH ENDS IN A MULL XV . 
MASTER HUCKABACK FAILS OF WARRANT XVI . 
JOHN IS CLEARLY BEWITCHED XVIII . 
WITCHERY LEADS TO WITCHCRAFT XIX . 
LORNA BEGINS HER STORY XXI . 
LORNA ENDS HER STORY XXII . 
A LONG SPRING MONTH XXIII . 
A SAFE PASS FOR KING'S MESSENGER XXV . 
A GREAT MAN ATTENDS TO BUSINESS XXVI . 
JOHN IS DRAINED AND CAST ASIDE XXVII . 
HOME AGAIN AT LAST XXVIII . 
JOHN HAS HOPE OF LORNA XXIX . 
REAPING LEADS TO REVELLING XXX . 
ANNIE GETS THE BEST OF IT XXXI . 
FEEDING OF THE PIGS XXXIII . 
AN EARLY MORNING CALLING XXXIV . 
TWO NEGATIVES MAKE AN AFFIRMATIVE XXXV . 
RUTH IS NOT LIKE LORNA XXXVI . 
JOHN RETURNS TO BUSINESS XXXVII . 
A VERY DESPERATE VENTURE XXXVIII . 
A GOOD TURN FOR JEREMY XXXIX . 
A TROUBLED STATE AND A FOOLISH JOKE XL . 
BROUGHT HOME AT LAST XLV . 
A CHANGE LONG NEEDED XLVI . 
SQUIRE FAGGUS MAKES SOME LUCKY HITS XLVII . 
EVERY MAN MUST DEFEND HIMSELF XLIX . 
MAIDEN SENTINELS ARE BEST L. A MERRY MEETING A SAD ONE LI . 
A VISIT FROM THE COUNSELLOR LII . 
THE WAY TO MAKE THE CREAM RISE LIII . 
JEREMY FINDS OUT SOMETHING LIV . 
JOHN BECOMES TOO POPULAR LVII . 
LORNA KNOWS HER NURSE LVIII . 
ANNIE LUCKIER THAN JOHN LXI . 
THEREFORE HE SEEKS COMFORT LXII . 
THE KING MUST NOT BE PRAYED FOR LXIII . 
JOHN IS WORSTED BY THE WOMEN LXIV . 
SLAUGHTER IN THE MARSHES LXV . 
LORNA STILL IS LORNA LXVIII . 
JOHN IS JOHN NO LONGER LXIX . 
NOT TO BE PUT UP WITH LXX . 
A LONG ACCOUNT SETTLED LXXII . 
THE COUNSELLOR AND THE CARVER LXXIII . 
HOW TO GET OUT OF CHANCERY LXXIV . 
, save what I may have won from the Bible or Master William Shakespeare , whom , in the face of common opinion , I do value highly . 
In short , I am an ignoramus , but pretty well for a yeoman . 
is a worthy grammar school , the largest in the west of England , founded and handsomely endowed in the year by Master Peter Blundell , of that same place , clothier . 
Some even said that I might , before manhood , rise almost to the third form , being of a perservering nature albeit , by full consent of all , thick headed . 
I know that he hath more head than I though never will he have such body and am thankful to have stopped betimes , with a meek and wholesome head piece . 
But if you doubt of my having been there , because now I know so little , go and see my name , 'John Ridd , graven on that very form . 
This hole should be left with the middle exalted , and the circumfere dug more deeply . 
Then let him fill it with saltpetre , all save a little space in the midst , where the boss of the wood is . 
he sticks the end of his candle of tallow , or 'rat's tail , as we called it , kindled and burning smoothly . 
The school house stands beside a stream , not very large , called Lowman , which flows into the broad river of Exe , about a mile below . 
in a manner they put their mouths up . 
But , lo ! I am dwelling on little things and the pigeons' eggs of the infancy , forgetting the bitter and heavy life gone over me since then . 
If I am neither a hard man nor a very close one , God knows I have had no lack of rubbing and pounding to make stone of me . 
Let that matter be as it will . 
It is beyond me to unfold , and mayhap of my grandson's grandson . 
All I know is that wheat is better than when I began to sow it . 
CHAPTER II AN IMPORTANT ITEM Now the cause of my leaving Tiverton school , and the way of it , were as follows . 
According to custom we drove the day boys in brave rout down the causeway from the school porch even to the gate where Cop has his dwelling and duty . 
, neither did we much inquire what their lineage was . 
In consumption of these we would help them , for our fare in hall fed appetite and while we ate their victuals , we allowed them freely to talk to us . 
Nevertheless , we could not feel , when all the victuals were gone , but that these boys required kicking from the premises of Blundell . 
And some of them were shopkeepers' sons , young grocers , fellmongers , and poulterers , and these to their credit seemed to know how righteous it was to kick them . 
But to do them justice , even these knew that they must be kicked for not paying . 
Now Mr. Faggus was my first cousin and an honour to the family , being a Northmolton man of great renown on the highway from Barum town even to London . 
Therefore of course , I hoped that he would catch the packmen , and the boys were asking my opinion as of an oracle , about it . 
A certain boy leaning up against me would not allow my elbow room , and struck me very sadly in the stomach part , though his own was full of my parliament . 
And this I felt so unkindly , that I smote him straightway in the face without tarrying to consider it , or weighing the question duly . 
, and a red faced man on the bigger nag . 
'Zhow un up , then , says John Fry poking his whip through the bars at us 'Zhow un up , and putt un aowt . 
The other little chaps pointed at me , and some began to hallo but I knew what I was about . 
'Oh , us knaws that wull enough , Maister Jan reckon every Oare man knaw that , without go to skoo ull , like you doth . 
Your moother have kept arl the apples up , and old Betty toorned the black puddens , and none dare set trap for a blagbird . 
Arl for thee , lad every bit of it now for thee ! He checked himself suddenly , and frightened me . 
I knew that John Fry's way so well . 
'And father , and father oh , how is father ? I pushed the boys right and left as I said it . 
'John , is father up in town ! He always used to come for me , and leave nobody else to do it . 
'Vayther'll be at the crooked post , tother zide o' telling house . 
Her coodn't lave 'ouze by raison of the Chirstmas bakkon comin' on , and zome o' the cider welted . 
The 'telling houses' on the moor are rude cots where the shepherds meet to 'tell' their sheep at the end of the pasturing season . 
He looked at the nag's ears as he said it and , being up to John Fry's ways , I knew that it was a lie . 
And my heart fell like a lump of lead , and I leaned back on the stay of the gate , and longed no more to fight anybody . 
A sort of dull power hung over me , like the cloud of a brooding tempest , and I feared to be told anything . 
But whatever lives or dies , business must be attended to and the principal business of good Christians is , beyond all controversy , to fight with one another . 
'Come up , Jack , said one of the boys , lifting me under the chin 'he hit you , and you hit him , you know . 
'Pay your debts before you go , said a monitor , striding up to me , after hearing how the honour lay 'Ridd , you must go through with it . 
, I looked from one to other of them , seeking any cure for it . 
Unless they be very good boys , and afraid of one another . 
But I took little heed of them , looking in dull wonderment at John Fry , and Smiler , and the blunderbuss , and Peggy . 
'Shall I fight , John ? I said at last 'I would an you had not come , John . 
Best wai to begin gude taime laike . 
had been well in over his withers , and none would have deemed him a piebald , save of red mire and black mire . 
The great blunderbuss , moreover , was choked with a dollop of slough cake and John Fry's sad coloured Sunday hat was indued with a plume of marish weed . 
All this I saw while he was dismounting , heavily and wearily , lifting his leg from the saddle cloth as if with a sore crick in his back . 
I had never told my mother a word about these frequent strivings , because she was soft hearted neither had I told by father , because he had not seen it . 
But I told him that now it was much too late to cry off so he said , 'The Lord be with thee , Jan , and turn thy thumb knuckle inwards . 
The great boys stood in a circle around , being gifted with strong privilege , and the little boys had leave to lie flat and look through the legs of the great boys . 
I marvel how Robin Snell felt . 
Very likely he thought nothing of it , always having been a boy of a hectoring and unruly sort . 
But I felt my heart go up and down as the boys came round to strip me and greatly fearing to be beaten , I blew hot upon my knuckles . 
Thomas Hooper was his name , and I remember how he looked at me . 
My mother had made that little cut jerkin , in the quiet winter evenings . 
And taken pride to loop it up in a fashionable way , and I was loth to soil it with blood , and good filberds were in the pocket . 
, and he stood very square , and looking at me , and I lacked not long to look at him . 
Round his waist he had a kerchief busking up his small clothes , and on his feet light pumpkin shoes , and all his upper raiment off . 
And he danced about in a way that made my head swim on my shoulders , and he stood some inches over me . 
But I , being muddled with much doubt about John Fry and his errand , was only stripped of my jerkin and waistcoat , and not comfortable to begin . 
'Come now , shake hands , cried a big boy , jumping in joy of the spectacle , a third former nearly six feet high 'shake hands , you little devils . 
Keep your pluck up , and show good sport , and Lord love the better man of you . 
Robin took me by the hand , and gazed at me disdainfully , and then smote me painfully in the face , ere I could get my fence up . 
'Whutt be 'bout , lad ? cried John Fry 'hutt un again , Jan , wull 'e ? Well done then , our Jan boy . 
, and the strife began in a serious style , and the boys looking on were not cheated . 
But to these we paid no heed or hap , being in the thick of swinging , and devoid of judgment . 
All I know is , I came to my corner , when the round was over , with very hard pumps in my chest , and a great desire to fall away . 
'Time is up , cried head monitor , ere ever I got my breath again and when I fain would have lingered awhile on the knee of the boy that held me . 
John Fry had come up , and the boys were laughing because he wanted a stable lanthorn , and threatened to tell my mother . 
'Time is up , cried another boy , more headlong than head monitor . 
'If we count three before the come of thee , thwacked thou art , and must go to the women . 
I felt it hard upon me . 
For I had found seat on the knee of a boy sage and skilled to tutor me , who knew how much the end very often differs from the beginning . 
A rare ripe scholar he was and now he hath routed up the Germans in the matter of criticism . 
Sure the clever boys and men have most love towards the stupid ones . 
But I was not so to be finished off , though feeling in my knuckles now as if it were a blueness and a sense of chilblain . 
Nothing held except my legs , and they were good to help me . 
With that it was all up with me . 
A simmering buzzed in my heavy brain , and a light came through my eyeplaces . 
At once I set both fists again , and my heart stuck to me like cobbler's wax . 
Either Robin Snell should kill me , or I would conquer Robin Snell . 
So I went in again with my courage up , and Bob came smiling for victory , and I hated him for smiling . 
He let at me with his left hand , and I gave him my right between his eyes , and he blinked , and was not pleased with it . 
I feared him not , and spared him not , neither spared myself . 
My breath came again , and my heart stood cool , and my eyes struck fire no longer . 
Only I knew that I would die sooner than shame my birthplace . 
How the rest of it was I know not only that I had the end of it , and helped to put Robin in bed . 
There is nothing I have striven at more than doing my duty , way warden over Exmoor . 
, it was a sad and sorry business to find where lay the highway . 
And I thought , perhaps father had sent for me because he had a good harvest , and the rats were bad in the corn chamber . 
It was high noon before we were got to Dulverton that day , near to which town the river Exe and its big brother Barle have union . 
In a hearty black frost they look small , until the snow falls over them . 
, we could easily keep in front , as far as you may hear a laugh . 
But now , at Dulverton , we dined upon the rarest and choicest victuals that ever I did taste . 
Even now , at my time of life , to think of it gives me appetite , as once and awhile to think of my first love makes me love all goodness . 
Fifty years have passed me quicker than the taste of that gravy . 
It is the manner of all good boys to be careless of apparel , and take no pride in adornment . 
But God forbid any man to be a fool to love , and be loved , as I have been . 
Else would he have prevented it . 
Fine heaven ! how blue your eyes are , and your skin like snow but some naughty man has beaten it black . 
Oh , leetle boy , let me feel it . 
Ah , how then it must have hurt you ! There now , and you shall love me . 
'If you please , madam , I must go . 
John Fry is waiting by the tapster's door , and Peggy neighing to me . 
If you please , we must get home to night and father will be waiting for me this side of the telling house . 
'There , there , you shall go , leetle dear , and perhaps I will go after you . 
I have taken much love of you . 
But the baroness is hard to me . 
How far you call it now to the bank of the sea at Wash Wash 'At Watchett , likely you mean , madam . 
Oh , a very long way , and the roads as soft as the road to Oare . 
'Oh ah , oh ah I shall remember that is the place where my leetle boy live , and some day I will come seek for him . 
Now make the pump to flow , my dear , and give me the good water . 
The baroness will not touch unless a nebule be formed outside the glass . 
By her side was a little girl , dark haired and very wonderful , with a wealthy softness on her , as if she must have her own way . 
I could not look at her for two glances , and she did not look at me for one , being such a little child , and busy with the hedges . 
But in the honourable place sate a handsome lady , very warmly dressed , and sweetly delicate of colour . 
And close to her was a lively child , two or it may be three years old , bearing a white cockade in his hat , and staring at all and everybody . 
Now , he saw Peggy , and took such a liking to her , that the lady his mother if so she were was forced to look at my pony and me . 
Soon I overtook John Fry , and asked him all about them , and how it was that we had missed their starting from the hostel . 
We saw no more of them after that , but turned into the sideway and soon had the fill of our hands and eyes to look to our own going . 
For the road got worse and worse , until there was none at all , and perhaps the purest thing it could do was to be ashamed to show itself . 
But we pushed on as best we might , with doubt of reaching home any time , except by special grace of God . 
The fog came down upon the moors as thick as ever I saw it and there was no sound of any sort , nor a breath of wind to guide us . 
The little stubby trees that stand here and there , like bushes with a wooden leg to them , were drizzled with a mess of wet , and hung their points with dropping . 
But soon it was too dark to see that , or anything else , I may say , except the creases in the dusk , where prisoned light crept up the valleys . 
'Mercy of God ! where be us now ? said John Fry , waking suddenly 'us ought to have passed hold hash , Jan . 
Zeen it on the road , have 'ee ? 'No indeed , John no old ash . 
Nor nothing else to my knowing nor heard nothing , save thee snoring . 
'Watt a vule thee must be then , Jan and me myzell no better . 
Harken , lad , harken ! We drew our horses up and listened , through the thickness of the air , and with our hands laid to our ears . 
'Doon't 'e be a vule , Jan ! Vaine moozick as iver I 'eer . 
God bless the man as made un doo it . 
'Have they hanged one of the Doones then , John ? 'Hush , lad niver talk laike o' thiccy . 
Hang a Doone ! God knoweth , the King would hang pretty quick if her did . 
But , of course , they were born to hanging , when they set themselves so high . 
'It be nawbody , said John , 'vor us to make a fush about . 
Belong to t'other zide o' the moor , and come staling shape to our zide . 
Red Jem Hannaford his name . 
Thank God for him to be hanged , lad and good cess to his soul for craikin' zo . 
'Vamous job this here , cried John , looking up to be sure of it , because there were so many 'here be my own nick on the post . 
Red Jem , too , and no doubt of him he do hang so handsome like , and his ribs up laike a horse a'most . 
God bless them as discoovered the way to make a rogue so useful . 
Good naight to thee , Jem , my lad and not break thy drames with the craikin' . 
John Fry shook his bridle arm , and smote upon Smiler merrily , as he jogged into the homeward track from the guiding of the body . 
But John would talk no more about it and perhaps he was moved with a lonesome feeling , as the creaking sound came after us . 
'Hould thee tongue , lad , he said sharply 'us be naigh the Doone track now , two maile from Dunkery Beacon hill , the haighest place of Hexmoor . 
So happen they be abroad to naight , us must crawl on our belly places , boy . 
I knew at once what he meant those bloody Doones of Bagworthy , the awe of all Devon and Somerset , outlaws , traitors , murderers . 
My little legs began to tremble to and fro upon Peggy's sides , as I heard the dead robber in chains behind us , and thought of the live ones still in front . 
Zober , lad , goo zober now , if thee wish to see thy moother . 
But even then I wondered why he talked of my mother so , and said not a word of father . 
We were come to a long deep 'goyal , as they call it on Exmoor , a word whose fountain and origin I have nothing to do with . 
And another time a Welshman told me that it must be something like the thing they call a 'pant' in those parts . 
Whether it be straight or crooked , makes no difference to it . 
We rode very carefully down our side , and through the soft grass at the bottom , and all the while we listened as if the air was a speaking trumpet . 
It was the sound of horses' feet knocking up through splashy ground , as if the bottom sucked them . 
Then a grunting of weary men , and the lifting noise of stirrups , and sometimes the clank of iron mixed with the wheezy croning of leather and the blowing of hairy nostrils . 
'God's sake , Jack , slip round her belly , and let her go where she wull . 
I crept to John's side very softly , with the bridle on my arm . 
'Let goo braidle let goo , lad . 
Plaise God they take them for forest ponies , or they'll zend a bullet through us . 
I saw what he meant , and let go the bridle for now the mist was rolling off , and we were against the sky line to the dark cavalcade below us . 
John bleated like a sheep to cover it a sheep very cold and trembling . 
Then just as the foremost horseman passed , scarce twenty yards below us , a puff of wind came up the glen , and the fog rolled off before it . 
All around it was hung with red , deep in twisted columns , and then a giant beard of fire streamed throughout the darkness . 
The sullen hills were flanked with light , and the valleys chined with shadow , and all the sombrous moors between awoke in furrowed anger . 
But most of all the flinging fire leaped into the rocky mouth of the glen below me , where the horsemen passed in silence , scarcely deigning to look round . 
Some had carcasses of sheep swinging with their skins on , others had deer , and one had a child flung across his saddle bow . 
Whether the child were dead , or alive , was more than I could tell , only it hung head downwards there , and must take the chance of it . 
I longed in my heart to know most sadly what they would do with the little thing , and whether they would eat it . 
Two of them turned round , and one set his carbine at me , but the other said it was but a pixie , and bade him keep his powder . 
Little they knew , and less thought I , that the pixie then before them would dance their castle down one day . 
'Small thanks to thee , Jan , as my new waife bain't a widder . 
And who be you to zupport of her , and her son , if she have one ? Zarve thee right if I was to chuck thee down into the Doone track . 
Zim thee'll come to un , zooner or later , if this be the zample of thee . 
lacks , and is better without , self reliance . 
Then I thought he had guests perhaps people lost upon the moors whom he could not leave unkindly , even for his son's sake . 
And yet about that I was jealous , and ready to be vexed with him , when he should begin to make much of me . 
And I felt in my pocket for the new pipe which I had brought him from Tiverton , and said to myself , 'He shall not have it until to morrow morning . 
Woe is me ! I cannot tell . 
How I knew I know not now only that I slunk away , without a tear , or thought of weeping , and hid me in a saw pit . 
There the timber , over head , came like streaks across me and all I wanted was to lack , and none to tell me anything . 
By and by , a noise came down , as of woman's weeping and there my mother and sister were , choking and holding together . 
Although they were my dearest loves , I could not bear to look at them , until they seemed to want my help , and put their hands before their eyes . 
CHAPTER IV A VERY RASH VISIT My dear father had been killed by the Doones of Bagworthy , while riding home from Porlock market , on the Saturday evening . 
The robbers had no grudge against him for he had never flouted them , neither made overmuch of outcry , because they robbed other people . 
And so , while his gossips doffed their hats , and shook with what was left of them , he set his staff above his head , and rode at the Doone robber . 
With a trick of his horse , the wild man escaped the sudden onset , although it must have amazed him sadly that any durst resist him . 
, the outlaw whistled upon his thumb , and plundered the rest of the yeoman . 
Nevertheless , he smote lustily , so far as he could see and being of great size and strength , and his blood well up , they had no easy job with him . 
Now , whether this were an honest fight , God judge betwixt the Doones and me . 
It was more of woe than wonder , being such days of violence , that mother knew herself a widow , and her children fatherless . 
Of children there were only three , none of us fit to be useful yet , only to comfort mother , by making her to work for us . 
I , John Ridd , was the eldest , and felt it a heavy thing on me next came sister Annie , with about two years between us and then the little Eliza . 
In the early afternoon she came to the hollow and barren entrance , where in truth there was no gate , only darkness to go through . 
If I get on with this story , I shall have to tell of it by and by , as I saw it afterwards and will not dwell there now . 
Enough that no gun was fired at her , only her eyes were covered over , and somebody led her by the hand , without any wish to hurt her . 
A very rough and headstrong road was all that she remembered , for she could not think as she wished to do , with the cold iron pushed against her . 
At the end of this road they delivered her eyes , and she could scarce believe them . 
By her side a little river glided out from underground with a soft dark babble , unawares of daylight then growing brighter , lapsed away , and fell into the valley . 
But further down , on either bank , were covered houses built of stone , square and roughly cornered , set as if the brook were meant to be the street between them . 
Fourteen cots my mother counted , all very much of a pattern , and nothing to choose between them , unless it were the captain's . 
Yet not a single house stood there but was the home of murder . 
And there at the door they left her trembling , strung as she was , to speak her mind . 
Now , after all , what right had she , a common farmer's widow , to take it amiss that men of birth thought fit to kill her husband . 
Therefore my mother was half ashamed that she could not help complaining . 
Only in his mouth and eyes , his gait , and most of all his voice , even a child could know and feel that here was no ditch labourer . 
Good cause he has found since then , perhaps , to wish that he had been one . 
With his white locks moving upon his coat , he stopped and looked down at my mother , and she could not help herself but curtsey under the fixed black gazing . 
'Good woman , you are none of us . 
Who has brought you hither ? Young men must be young but I have had too much of this work . 
And he scowled at my mother , for her comeliness and yet looked under his eyelids as if he liked her for it . 
But as for her , in her depth of love grief , it struck scorn upon her womanhood and in the flash she spoke . 
'What you mean I know not . 
Traitors ! cut throats ! cowards ! I am here to ask for my husband . 
She could not say any more , because her heart was now too much for her , coming hard in her throat and mouth but she opened up her eyes at him . 
'Madam , said Sir Ensor Doone being born a gentleman , although a very bad one 'I crave pardon of you . 
My eyes are old , or I might have known . 
Now , if we have your husband prisoner , he shall go free without ransoms , because I have insulted you . 
'Sir , said my mother , being suddenly taken away with sorrow , because of his gracious manner , 'please to let me cry a bit . 
He stood away , and seemed to know that women want no help for that . 
And by the way she cried he knew that they had killed her husband . 
Then , having felt of grief himself , he was not angry with her , but left her to begin again . 
All the herbs he left to me , and all the bacon curing , and when it was best to kill a pig , and how to treat the maidens . 
Not that I would ever wish oh , John , it seems so strange to me , and last week you were everything . 
Here mother burst out crying again , not loudly , but turning quietly , because she knew that no one now would ever care to wipe the tears . 
And fifty or a hundred things , of weekly and daily happening , came across my mother , so that her spirit fell like slackening lime . 
'This matter must be seen to it shall be seen to at once , the old man answered , moved a little in spite of all his knowledge . 
'Madam , if any wrong has been done , trust the honour of a Doone I will redress it to my utmost . 
Come inside and rest yourself , while I ask about it . 
My husband's name was John Ridd , sir , as everybody knows and there was not a finer or better man in Somerset or Devon . 
And so she wiped her eyes and smiled , and looked for something . 
'Madam , this is a serious thing , Sir Ensor Doone said graciously , and showing grave concern 'my boys are a little wild , I know . 
And yet I cannot think that they would willingly harm any one . 
And yet and yet , you do look wronged . 
Send Counsellor to me , he shouted , from the door of his house and down the valley went the call , 'Send Counsellor to Captain . 
, he carried a long grey beard descending to the leather of his belt . 
Great eyebrows overhung his face , like ivy on a pollard oak , and under them two large brown eyes , as of an owl when muting . 
And he had a power of hiding his eyes , or showing them bright , like a blazing fire . 
He stood there with his beaver off , and mother tried to look at him , but he seemed not to descry her . 
'Counsellor , said Sir Ensor Doone , standing back in his height from him , 'here is a lady of good repute 'Oh , no , sir only a woman . 
'Allow me , madam , by your good leave . 
Oh , sir ! oh , sir ! you know it . 
'The perfect rights and truth of the case is all I wish to know , said the old man , very loftily 'and justice shall be done , madam . 
'Oh , I pray you pray you , sirs , make no matter of business of it . 
God from Heaven , look on me ! 'Put the case , said the Counsellor . 
Madam , amend me if I am wrong . 
'No longer , indeed , indeed , sir . 
Sometimes it seems a twelvemonth , and sometimes it seems an hour . 
'Cite his name , said the Counsellor , with his eyes still rolling inwards . 
'Master John Ridd , as I understand . 
Counsellor , we have heard of him often a worthy man and a peaceful one , who meddled not with our duties . 
Now , if any of our boys have been rough , they shall answer it dearly . 
And yet I can scarce believe it . 
For the folk about these parts are apt to misconceive of our sufferings , and to have no feeling for us . 
Counsellor , you are our record , and very stern against us tell us how this matter was . 
'Oh , Counsellor ! my mother cried 'Sir Counsellor , you will be fair I see it in your countenance . 
Only tell me who it was , and set me face to face with him , and I will bless you , sir , and God shall bless you , and my children . 
'Few words will be enow for this . 
Four or five of our best behaved and most peaceful gentlemen went to the little market at Porlock with a lump of money . 
They bought some household stores and comforts at a very high price , and pricked upon the homeward road , away from vulgar revellers . 
His arrogance and hardihood at the first amazed them , but they would not give up without a blow goods which were on trust with them . 
He had smitten three of them senseless , for the power of his arm was terrible whereupon the last man tried to ward his blow with a pistol . 
Carver , sir , it was , our brave and noble Carver , who saved the lives of his brethren and his own and glad enow they were to escape . 
Notwithstanding , we hoped it might be only a flesh wound , and not to speed him in his sins . 
But the only thing that opened was the great brown eyes of the Counsellor , which rested on my mother's face with a dew of sorrow , as he spoke of sins . 
The cock tailed beetle has earned this name in the West of England . 
a smile on his lips , and a sense of quiet enjoyment . 
'All the Doones are gentlemen , answered the old man gravely , and looking as if he had never smiled since he was a baby . 
Is it not so , Counsellor ? 'Without doubt his land is attainted unless is mercy you forbear , sir . 
'Counsellor , we will forbear . 
Madam , we will forgive him . 
Like enough he knew not right from wrong , at that time of night . 
The waters are strong at Porlock , and even an honest man may use his staff unjustly in this unchartered age of violence and rapine . 
The Doones to talk of rapine ! Mother's head went round so that she curtseyed to them both , scarcely knowing where she was , but calling to mind her manners . 
All the time she felt a warmth , as if the right was with her , and yet she could not see the way to spread it out before them . 
With that , she dried her tears in haste and went into the cold air , for fear of speaking mischief . 
'Captain sends you this , he whispered 'take it to the little ones . 
In bar of such prejudice , many of us ask leave to explain how and why it was the robbers came to that head in the midst of us . 
We would rather not have had it so , God knows as well as anybody but it grew upon us gently , in the following manner . 
Only let all who read observe that here I enter many things which came to my knowledge in later years . 
One of the joint owners was Sir Ensor Doone , a gentleman of brisk intellect and the other owner was his cousin , the Earl of Lorne and Dykemont . 
The nobleman was still well to do , though crippled in his expenditure but as for the cousin , he was left a beggar , with many to beg from him . 
He thought that the other had wronged him , and that all the trouble of law befell through his unjust petition . 
In this he may have been quite wrong probably , perhaps , he was so but I am not convinced at all but what most of us would have done the same . 
Others say that he bearded King Charles the First himself , in a manner beyond forgiveness . 
One thing , at any rate , is sure Sir Ensor was attainted , and made a felon outlaw , through some violent deed ensuing upon his dispossession . 
All good people of either persuasion , royalty or commonalty , knowing his kitchen range to be cold , no longer would play turnspit . 
And this , it may be , seared his heart more than loss of land and fame . 
, but that it was known to be rugged , and large , and desolate . 
I assure them I am good inside , and not a bit of rue in me only queer knots , as of marjoram , and a stupid manner of bursting . 
There was not more than a dozen of them , counting a few retainers who still held by Sir Ensor but soon they grew and multiplied in a manner surprising to think of . 
At first they had brought some ladies with them , of good repute with charity and then , as time went on , they added to their stock by carrying . 
They carried off many good farmers' daughters , who were sadly displeased at first but took to them kindly after awhile , and made a new home in their babies . 
For women , as it seems to me , like strong men more than weak ones , feeling that they need some staunchness , something to hold fast by . 
, and show them what a cross buttock means , because we are so stuggy but in regard of stature , comeliness , and bearing , no woman would look twice at us . 
Not but what I myself , John Ridd , and one or two I know of but it becomes me best not to talk of that , although my hair is gray . 
For the sons and grandsons of Sir Ensor grew up in foul liberty , and haughtiness , and hatred , to utter scorn of God and man , and brutality towards dumb animals . 
There was only one good thing about them , if indeed it were good , to wit , their faith to one another , and truth to their wild eyry . 
But this only made them feared the more , so certain was the revenge they wreaked upon any who dared to strike a Doone . 
The youth had been struck , but would not complain , and perhaps took little heed of the wound , while he was bleeding inwardly . 
His brothers and cousins laid him softly on a bank of whortle berries , and just rode back to the lonely hamlet where he had taken his death wound . 
No man nor woman was left in the morning , nor house for any to dwell in , only a child with its reason gone . 
This vile deed was done , beyond all doubt . 
, and no more than two of their following ever failed of that test , and relapsed to the difficult ways of honesty . 
Not one word do I believe of Robin Hood splitting peeled wands at seven score yards , and such like . 
Whoever wrote such stories knew not how slippery a peeled wand is , even if one could hit it , and how it gives to the onset . 
Now , let him stick one in the ground , and take his bow and arrow at it , ten yards away , or even five . 
They would all have had to ride home that night , and who could say what might betide them . 
Least said soonest mended , because less chance of breaking . 
There is not much of company there for anybody's tombstone , because the parish spreads so far in woods and moors without dwelling house . 
'Bad job for he as her had not got thiccy the naight as her coom acrass them Doones . 
Rackon Varmer Jan 'ood a zhown them the wai to kingdom come , 'stead of gooin' herzel zo aisy . 
And a maight have been gooin' to market now , 'stead of laying banked up over yanner . 
Maister Jan , thee can zee the grave if thee look alang this here goon barryel . 
Buy now , whutt be blubberin' at ? Wish I had never told thee . 
'John Fry , I am not blubbering you make a great mistake , John . 
You are thinking of little Annie . 
I cough sometimes in the winter weather , and father gives me lickerish I mean I mean he used to . 
Now let me have the gun , John . 
'Thee have the goon , Jan ! Thee isn't fit to putt un to thy zhoulder . 
What a weight her be , for sure ! 'Me not hold it , John ! That shows how much you know about it . 
Get out of the way , John you are opposite the mouth of it , and likely it is loaded . 
But I never found it kick very hard , and firmly set to the shoulder , unless it was badly loaded . 
Mother thought it wrong of them , selfish and ungrateful and yet sometimes she was proud that none had such call as herself to grieve for him . 
Only Annie seemed to go softly in and out , and cry , with nobody along of her , chiefly in the corner where the bees are and the grindstone . 
But somehow she would never let anybody behold her being set , as you may say , to think it over by herself , and season it with weeping . 
Many times I caught her , and many times she turned upon me , and then I could not look at her , but asked how long to dinner time . 
I had never fired a shot without thinking , 'This for father's murderer' and John Fry said that I made such faces it was a wonder the gun went off . 
But what is it for , dear heart , dear heart ? 'To buy something over at Porlock , mother . 
Perhaps I will tell you afterwards . 
If I tell not it will be for your good , and for the sake of the children . 
'Bless the boy , one would think he was threescore years of age at least . 
Give me a little kiss , you Jack , and you shall have the shilling . 
For I hated to kiss or be kissed in those days and so all honest boys must do , when God puts any strength in them . 
But now I wanted the powder so much that I went and kissed mother very shyly , looking round the corner first , for Betty not to see me . 
In very quick time I ran away with the shilling in my pocket , and got Peggy out on the Porlock road without my mother knowing it . 
For mother was frightened of that road now , as if all the trees were murderers , and would never let me go alone so much as a hundred yards on it . 
But this time I was very bold , having John Fry's blunderbuss , and keeping a sharp look out wherever any lurking place was . 
Now Timothy Pooke was a peaceful man , glad to live without any enjoyment of mind at danger , and I was tall and large already as most lads of a riper age . 
It made me feel rather hot and queer to be taken for a robber and yet methinks I was proud of it . 
Put 'un down , for good , now and thee shall have the very best of all is in the shop . 
But in spite of all assurances , he showed himself desirous only to see the last of my gun and me . 
I dare say 'villainous saltpetre , as the great playwright calls it , was never so cheap before nor since . 
For my shilling Master Pooke afforded me two great packages over large to go into my pockets , as well as a mighty chunk of lead , which I bound upon Peggy's withers . 
There was still some daylight here and there as I rose the hill above Porlock , wondering whether my mother would be in a fright , or would not know it . 
As for me , I had tried it once , from a kind of curiosity and I could not walk for two or three days , the leather galled my knees so . 
I was ready at any moment to shoot at anybody , having great faith in my blunderbuss , but hoping not to prove it . 
However , there was not a soul to be seen , until we came home to the old farmyard , and there was my mother crying sadly , and Betty Muxworthy scolding . 
'Come along , now , I whispered to Annie , the moment supper was over 'and if you can hold your tongue , Annie , I will show you something . 
She lifted herself on the bench so quickly , and flushed so rich with pleasure , that I was obliged to stare hard away , and make Betty look beyond us . 
Betty thought I had something hid in the closet beyond the clock case , and she was the more convinced of it by reason of my denial . 
Meanwhile , dear mother was falling asleep , having been troubled so much about me and Watch , my father's pet dog , was nodding closer and closer up into her lap . 
Some folk purtends to laugh and cry over them . 
Annie was her love and joy . 
For Annie she would do anything , even so far as to try to smile , when the little maid laughed and danced to her . 
And in truth I know not how it was , but every one was taken with Annie at the very first time of seeing her . 
She had such pretty ways and manners , and such a look of kindness , and a sweet soft light in her long blue eyes full of trustful gladness . 
Everybody who looked at her seemed to grow the better for it , because she knew no evil . 
And then the turn she had for cooking , you never would have expected it and how it was her richest mirth to see that she had pleased you . 
I have been out on the world a vast deal as you will own hereafter , and yet have I never seen Annie's equal for making a weary man comfortable . 
We always managed our evening's work in the chimney of the back kitchen , where there was room to set chairs and table , in spite of the fire burning . 
Then she came back with foolish tears , at thinking of that necessity and I , being soft in a different way , would make up my mind against bacon . 
But , Lord bless you ! it was no good . 
Whenever it came to breakfast time , after three hours upon the moors , I regularly forgot the pigs , but paid good heed to the rashers . 
For ours is a hungry county , if such there be in England a place , I mean , where men must eat , and are quick to discharge the duty . 
Almost everybody knows , in our part of the world at least , how pleasant and soft the fall of the land is round about Plover's Barrows farm . 
All above it is strong dark mountain , spread with heath , and desolate , but near our house the valleys cove , and open warmth and shelter . 
Here are trees , and bright green grass , and orchards full of contentment , and a man may scarce espy the brook , although he hears it everywhere . 
And indeed a stout good piece of it comes through our farm yard , and swells sometimes to a rush of waves , when the clouds are on the hill tops . 
But all below , where the valley bends , and the Lynn stream comes along with it , pretty meadows slope their breast , and the sun spreads on the water . 
And nearly all of this is ours , till you come to Nicholas Snowe's land . 
But about two miles below our farm , the Bagworthy water runs into the Lynn , and makes a real river of it . 
For of all the things I learned at Blundell's , only two abode with me , and one of these was the knack of fishing , and the other the art of swimming . 
Then the little boys , falling on their naked knees , blubber upwards piteously but the large boys know what is good for them , and will not be entreated . 
Nevertheless , I learnt to swim there , as all the other boys did for the greatest point in learning that is to find that you must do it . 
But whether we were afraid or not , I am sure I cannot tell , because it is so long ago but I think that had something to do with it . 
For Bagworthy water ran out of Doone valley , a mile or so from the mouth of it . 
And it came about in this wise . 
My mother had long been ailing , and not well able to eat much and there is nothing that frightens us so much as for people to have no love of their victuals . 
And mother had said that in all her life she had never tasted anything fit to be compared with them . 
There are many people , even now , who have not come to the right knowledge what a loach is , and where he lives , and how to catch and pickle him . 
And I will not tell them all about it , because if I did , very likely there would be no loaches left ten or twenty years after the appearance of this book . 
Being resolved to catch some loaches , whatever trouble it cost me , I set forth without a word to any one , in the forenoon of St . 
Valentine's day , , I think it must have been . 
But let me be of any age , I never could forget that day , and how bitter cold the water was . 
A long way down that limpid water , chill and bright as an iceberg , went my little self that day on man's choice errand destruction . 
Now let not any one suppose that I thought of these things when I was young , for I knew not the way to do it . 
, and he would liefer have a good apple , or even a bad one , if he stole it . 
Hereupon I drew up and thought , and reason was much inside me because the water was bitter cold , and my little toes were aching . 
So on the bank I rubbed them well with a sprout of young sting nettle , and having skipped about awhile , was kindly inclined to eat a bit . 
Now all the turn of all my life hung upon that moment . 
And please to recollect that I was only a boy in those days , fond enough of anything new , but not like a man to meet it . 
I found it strongly over woven , turned , and torn with thicket wood , but not so rocky as the Lynn , and more inclined to go evenly . 
And here and there the sun came in , as if his light was sifted , making dance upon the waves , and shadowing the pebbles . 
For now the day was falling fast behind the brown of the hill tops , and the trees , being void of leaf and hard , seemed giants ready to beat me . 
And every moment as the sky was clearing up for a white frost , the cold of the water got worse and worse , until I was fit to cry with it . 
at the sides , till I saw it was only foam froth . 
But soon I saw the reason of the stir and depth of that great pit , as well as of the roaring sound which long had made me wonder . 
However , there was no side rail , nor any place to walk upon , only the channel a fathom wide , and the perpendicular walls of crag shutting out the evening . 
But nothing would come of wishing that I had long found out and it only made one the less inclined to work without white feather . 
So I laid the case before me in a little council not for loss of time , but only that I wanted rest , and to see things truly . 
Then says I to myself 'John Ridd , these trees , and pools , and lonesome rocks , and setting of the sunlight are making a gruesome coward of thee . 
I felt nothing except that here was another matter to begin upon and it might be worth while , or again it might not , to have another fight for it . 
And in this manner I won a footing , leaning well forward like a draught horse , and balancing on my strength as it were , with the ashen stake set behind me . 
Then I said to my self , 'John Ridd , the sooner you get yourself out by the way you came , the better it will be for you . 
To me it seemed half a mile at least of sliding water above me , but in truth it was little more than a furlong , as I came to know afterwards . 
It would have been a hard ascent even without the slippery slime and the force of the river over it , and I had scanty hope indeed of ever winning the summit . 
And then came thought of my father also , and the pain of my feet abated . 
Here I fell very piteously , and was like to have broken my knee cap , and the torrent got hold of my other leg while I was indulging the bruised one . 
And then a vile knotting of cramp disabled me , and for awhile I could only roar , till my mouth was full of water , and all of my body was sliding . 
But the fright of that brought me to again , and my elbow caught in a rock hole and so I managed to start again , with the help of more humility . 
was the first primrose of the season . 
And since that day I think of her , through all the rough storms of my life , when I see an early primrose . 
Not that I had any beauty , or ever pretended to have any , only a solid healthy face , which many girls have laughed at . 
But she clapped her hands , and made a trifling dance around my back , and came to me on the other side , as if I were a great plaything . 
But I will give you some , if you like . 
'Dear me , how much you think of them ! Why , they are only fish . 
But how your feet are bleeding ! oh , I must tie them up for you . 
'Why , they are quite as wet as your feet and I cannot bear to see your feet . 
Oh , please to let me manage them I will do it very softly . 
'Oh , I don't think much of that , I replied 'I shall put some goose grease to them . 
But how you are looking at me ! I never saw any one like you before . 
My name is John Ridd . 
Then I stood up and touched her hand , and tried to make her look at me but she only turned away the more . 
Young and harmless as she was , her name alone made guilt of her . 
Nevertheless I could not help looking at her tenderly , and the more when her blushes turned into tears , and her tears to long , low sobs . 
'Don't cry , I said , 'whatever you do . 
I am sure you have never done any harm . 
I will give you all my fish Lorna , and catch some more for mother only don't be angry with me . 
She flung her little soft arms up in the passion of her tears , and looked at me so piteously , that what did I do but kiss her . 
It seemed to be a very odd thing , when I came to think of it , because I hated kissing so , as all honest boys must do . 
, and the sweetest flowers of spring . 
, and drew away , and smoothed her dress , as if I had used a freedom . 
Then I felt my cheeks grow burning red , and I gazed at my legs and was sorry . 
, yet I knew that she was by birth a thousand years in front of me . 
The colours were bright and rich indeed , and the substance very sumptuous , yet simple and free from tinsel stuff , and matching most harmoniously . 
, made it seem yet whiter , as if it were done on purpose . 
They could never beat you , 'No . 
They would kill us both outright , and bury us here by the water and the water often tells me that I must come to that . 
'But what should they kill me for ? 'Because you have found the way up here , and they never could believe it . 
Now , please to go oh , please to go . 
They will kill us both in a moment . 
And when your feet are well , you know , you can come and tell me how they are . 
'But I tell you , Lorna , I like you very much indeed nearly as much as Annie , and a great deal more than Lizzie . 
There is not a dog in the valley . 
'Hush ! A shout came down the valley , and all my heart was trembling , like water after sunset , and Lorna's face was altered from pleasant play to terror . 
A tingle went through all my bones , and I only longed for my carbine . 
The little girl took courage from me , and put her cheek quite close to mine . 
'Come with me down the waterfall . 
I can carry you easily and mother will take care of you . 
'No , no , she cried , as I took her up 'I will tell you what to do . 
They are only looking for me . 
You see that hole , that hole there ? She pointed to a little niche in the rock which verged the meadow , about fifty yards away from us . 
In the fading of the twilight I could just descry it . 
'Yes , I see it but they will see me crossing the grass to get there . 
'Look ! look ! She could hardly speak . 
'There is a way out from the top of it they would kill me if I told it . 
Oh , here they come , I can see them . 
But I drew her behind the withy bushes , and close down to the water , where it was quiet and shelving deep , ere it came to the lip of the chasm . 
Luckily I had picked up my fish and taken my three pronged fork away . 
'Stop , said I 'now I see what to do . 
I must get into the water , and you must go to sleep . 
'To be sure , yes , away in the meadow there . 
that the water began to gurgle round me , and to lap upon the pebbles . 
And then I knew that for her sake I was bound to be brave and hide myself . 
She was lying beneath a rock , thirty or forty yards from me , feigning to be fast asleep , with her dress spread beautifully , and her hair drawn over her . 
Presently one of the great rough men came round a corner upon her and there he stopped and gazed awhile at her fairness and her innocence . 
Then he caught her up in his arms , and kissed her so that I heard him and if I had only brought my gun , I would have tried to shoot him . 
and when I got over my thriftless fright , I longed to have more to say to her . 
Her voice to me was so different from all I had ever heard before , as might be a sweet silver bell intoned to the small chords of a harp . 
But I had no time to think about this , if I hoped to have any supper . 
I crept into a bush for warmth , and rubbed my shivering legs on bark , and longed for mother's fagot . 
Therefore , wringing my sodden breaches , I managed to crawl from the bank to the niche in the cliff which Lorna had shown me . 
It was no good to catch the sides , the whole thing seemed to go with me . 
Then , without knowing how , I was leaning over a night of water . 
in the brown fern and ivy behind me . 
, and gathering quick warm comfort , sprang up the steep way towards the starlight . 
, that I scrambled back to the mouth of that pit as if the evil one had been after me . 
How I kept that resolution we shall see hereafter . 
It is enough for me now to tell how I escaped from the den that night . 
But in less than half a minute I was ashamed of that idea , and remembered how she was vexed to think that even a loach should lose his life . 
Therefore I began to search with the utmost care and diligence , although my teeth were chattering , and all my bones beginning to ache with the chilliness and the wetness . 
Herein was small encouragement and at first I was minded to lie down and die but it seemed to come amiss to me . 
God has His time for all of us but He seems to advertise us when He does not mean to do it . 
, and clung to the rock with my nails , and worked to make a jump into the second stirrup . 
Nevertheless , some parts grew clearer , as one by one I remembered them , having taken a little soft cordial , because the memory frightens me . 
, and by the fire was Betty Muxworthy , scolding , and cooking , and tasting her work , all in a breath , as a man would say . 
And indeed , one of our old sayings is , For pleasure's sake I would liefer wet , Than ha' ten lumps of gold for each one of my sweat . 
And again , which is not a bad proverb , though unthrifty and unlike a Scotsman's , God makes the wheat grow greener , While farmer be at his dinner . 
, ever thinks of working harder than God likes to see him . 
It is wonderful how time runs away , when all these things and a great many others come in to load him down the hill and prevent him from stopping to look about . 
For in those days I had a firm belief , as many other strong boys have , of being born for a seaman . 
But Betty Muxworthy spoke her mind quite in a different way about it , the while she was wringing my hosen , and clattering to the drying horse . 
'Zailor , ees fai ! ay and zarve un raight . 
How wil un ever baide aboard zhip , wi' the watter zinging out under un , and comin' up splash when the wind blow . 
Latt un goo , missus , latt un goo , zay I for wan , and old Davy wash his clouts for un . 
And this discourse of Betty's tended more than my mother's prayers , I fear , to keep me from going . 
For I hated Betty in those days , as children always hate a cross servant , and often get fond of a false one . 
Now let that question pass . 
, but hurries to know what the people did , and how they got on about it . 
And this I can tell , if any one can , having been myself in the thick of it . 
Annie was of a pleasing face , and very gentle manner , almost like a lady some people said but without any airs whatever , only trying to give satisfaction . 
And if she failed , she would go and weep , without letting any one know it , believing the fault to be all her own , when mostly it was of others . 
what there was for dinner . 
that the ducks in the court made a terrible quacking , instead of marching off to their pen , one behind another . 
Thereupon Annie and I ran out to see what might be the sense of it . 
, not I mean twenty three in all , but ten white and three brown striped ones and without being nice about their colour , they all quacked very movingly . 
And then they shook their tails together , and looked grave , and went round and round again . 
Therefore I knew at once , by the way they were carrying on , that there must be something or other gone wholly amiss in the duck world . 
There is always a hurdle six feet long and four and a half in depth , swung by a chain at either end from an oak laid across the channel . 
and to fence strange cattle , or Farmer Snowe's horses , from coming along the bed of the brook unknown , to steal our substance . 
But now this hurdle , which hung in the summer a foot above the trickle , would have been dipped more than two feet deep but for the power against it . 
with the drift stuff , was going see saw , with a sulky splash on the dirty red comb of the waters . 
, a gaze of appealing sorrow , and then a loud quack to second it . 
But the quack came out of time , I suppose , for his throat got filled with water , as the hurdle carried him back again . 
'Ho , there , he cried 'get thee back , boy . 
The flood will carry thee down like a straw . 
I will do it for thee , and no trouble . 
She answered him kindly with her soft eyes , and smiled at him very lovingly , and they understood one another . 
Then he took from his waistcoat two peppercorns , and made the old drake swallow them , and tried him softly upon his legs , where the leading gap in the hedge was . 
that it was safer to tickle than buffet him . 
'Well , young uns , what be gaping at ? He gave pretty Annie a chuck on the chin , and took me all in without winking . 
'Your mare , said I , standing stoutly up , being a tall boy now 'I never saw such a beauty , sir . 
Will you let me have a ride of her ? 'Think thou couldst ride her , lad ? She will have no burden but mine . 
Thou couldst never ride her . 
Tut ! I would be loath to kill thee . 
'Ride her ! I cried with the bravest scorn , for she looked so kind and gentle 'there never was horse upon Exmoor foaled , but I could tackle in half an hour . 
Only I never ride upon saddle . 
Take them leathers off of her . 
He looked at me with a dry little whistle , and thrust his hands into his breeches pockets , and so grinned that I could not stand it . 
And Annie laid hold of me in such a way that I was almost mad with her . 
And he laughed , and approved her for doing so . 
And the worst of all was he said nothing . 
'Get away , Annie , will you ? Do you think I'm a fool , good sir ! Only trust me with her , and I will not override her . 
'For that I will go bail , my son . 
She is liker to override thee . 
But the ground is soft to fall upon , after all this rain . 
Now come out into the yard , young man , for the sake of your mother's cabbages . 
And the mellow straw bed will be softer for thee , since pride must have its fall . 
I am thy mother's cousin , boy , and am going up to house . 
Tom Faggus is my name , as everybody knows and this is my young mare , Winnie . 
And these come of any colour and form you never can count what they will be , and are lucky to get four legs to them . 
Then Winnie trod lightly upon the straw , because it had soft muck under it , and her delicate feet came back again . 
'Up for it still , boy , be ye ? Tom Faggus stopped , and the mare stopped there and they looked at me provokingly . 
'Is she able to leap , sir ? There is good take off on this side of the brook . 
Mr. Faggus laughed very quietly , turning round to Winnie so that she might enter into it . 
And she , for her part , seemed to know exactly where the fun lay . 
'Good tumble off , you mean , my boy . 
Well , there can be small harm to thee . 
I am akin to thy family , and know the substance of their skulls . 
'Let me get up , said I , waxing wroth , for reasons I cannot tell you , because they are too manifold 'take off your saddle bag things . 
I will try not to squeeze her ribs in , unless she plays nonsense with me . 
Then Mr. Faggus was up on his mettle , at this proud speech of mine and John Fry was running up all the while , and Bill Dadds , and half a dozen . 
Tom Faggus gave one glance around , and then dropped all regard for me . 
'Not too hard , my dear , he said 'led him gently down on the mixen . 
That will be quite enough . 
Then he turned the saddle off , and I was up in a moment . 
With that I plugged my heels into her , and Billy Dadds flung his hat up . 
'Mux me , I cried , for my breeches were broken , and short words went the furthest 'if you kill me , you shall die with me . 
I never had dreamed of such delicate motion , fluent , and graceful , and ambient , soft as the breeze flitting over the flowers , but swift as the summer lightning . 
She was so slippery 'Boy , thou art right . 
She hath given many the slip . 
Ha , ha ! Vex not , Jack , that I laugh at thee . 
She is like a sweetheart to me , and better , than any of them be . 
It would have gone to my heart if thou hadst conquered . 
None but I can ride my Winnie mare . 
Oh , my boy , my boy ! What could I do without thee ? Put up the other arm , Johnny . 
All the time mother was scolding so , she was feeling me , and wiping me while Faggus tried to look greatly ashamed , having sense of the ways of women . 
Everybody looked at mother , to hear her talk like that , knowing how quiet she was day by day and how pleasant to be cheated . 
And the men began to shoulder their shovels , both so as to be away from her , and to go and tell their wives of it . 
Winnie too was looking at her , being pointed at so much , and wondering if she had done amiss . 
And then she came to me , and trembled , and stooped her head , and asked my pardon , if she had been too proud with me . 
'Young man , said Tom Faggus , still preparing sternly to depart , 'you know more about a horse than any man on Exmoor . 
Your mother may well be proud of you , but she need have had no fear . 
I knew you could ride when I saw you , and rarely you have conquered . 
But women don't understand us . 
Good bye , John I am proud of you , and I hoped to have done you pleasure . 
And indeed I came full of some courtly tales , that would have made your hair stand up . 
With that he fetched a heavy sigh , as if it had been for my father and feebly got upon Winnie's back , and she came to say farewell to me . 
You have beaten her so , that she cannot leap it , poor thing . 
But before he was truly gone out of our yard , my mother came softly after him , with her afternoon apron across her eyes , and one hand ready to offer him . 
Nevertheless , he made as if he had not seen her , though he let his horse go slowly . 
'Stop , Cousin Tom , my mother said , 'a word with you , before you go . 
'Come here , he used to say , 'Tom , come here , when you are worried , and my wife shall take good care of you . 
'Yes , dear John , I used to answer , 'I know she promised my mother so but people have taken to think against me , and so might Cousin Sarah . 
Ah , he was a man , a man ! If you only heard how he answered me . 
But let that go , I am nothing now , since the day I lost Cousin Ridd . 
And with that he began to push on again but mother would not have it so . 
'Oh , Tom , that was a loss indeed . 
And I am nothing either . 
And you should try to allow for me though I never found any one that did . 
And mother began to cry , though father had been dead so long and I looked on with a stupid surprise , having stopped from crying long ago . 
'Hush , Tom , hush , for God's sake ! And mother meant me , without pointing at me at least I thought she did . 
For she ever had weaned me from thoughts of revenge , and even from longings for judgment . 
'God knows best , boy , she used to say , 'let us wait His time , without wishing it . 
No food or shelter this side of Exeford , and the night will be black as pitch , I trow . 
But it serves me right for indulging the lad , being taken with his looks so . 
We cannot entertain you , as the lordly inns on the road do and we have small change of victuals . 
But the men will go home , being Saturday and so you will have the fireside all to yourself and the children . 
And if none of those be to your liking , we could roast two woodcocks in half an hour , and Annie would make the toast for them . 
I fear there is something unrighteous about it . 
But what can a poor widow do ? John Fry would have taken it , but for our Jack . 
Our Jack was a little too sharp for him . 
Ay , that I was John Fry had got it , like a billet under his apron , going away in the gray of the morning , as if to kindle his fireplace . 
'Why , John , I said , 'what a heavy log ! Let me have one end of it . 
'Thank'e , Jan , no need of thiccy , he answered , turning his back to me 'waife wanteth a log as will last all day , to kape the crock a zimmerin . 
And he banged his gate upon my heels to make me stop and rub them . 
'Why , John , said I , 'you'm got a log with round holes in the end of it . 
Who has been cutting gun wads ? Just lift your apron , or I will . 
, nor man enough to fill them . 
And in truth my mother was very glad that he refused , when I offered them . 
But John was over proud to have it in his power to say that such a famous man had ever dwelt in any clothes of his and afterwards he made show of them . 
For Mr. Faggus's glory , then , though not so great as now it is , was spreading very fast indeed all about our neighbourhood , and even as far as Bridgewater . 
Tom Faggus was a jovial soul , if ever there has been one , not making bones of little things , nor caring to seek evil . 
There was about him such a love of genuine human nature , that if a traveller said a good thing , he would give him back his purse again . 
was bitterly moved against him , although he could quote precedent . 
, that I scarcely know , as here we say , one crow's foot from the other . 
Loyal , too , to the King am I , as behoves churchwarden and ready to make the best of him , as he generally requires . 
, was liege lord , and paramount owner with everybody to thank him kindly for accepting tribute . 
Now she must be grieving for me , and I never let her grieve long . 
I was too glad to go with him , and Annie came slyly after us . 
, and without so much as a headstall on , for he would not have her fastened . 
'Do you take my mare for a dog ? he had said when John Fry brought him a halter . 
And now she ran to him like a child , and her great eyes shone at the lanthorn . 
'Hit me , Jack , and see what she will do . 
I will not let her hurt thee . 
He was rubbing her ears all the time he spoke , and she was leaning against him . 
'What think you of that , boy ? Have you horse or dog that would do that for you ? Ay , and more than that she will do . 
If I were to whistle , by and by , in the tone that tells my danger , she would break this stable door down , and rush into the room to me . 
Nothing will keep her from me then , stone wal or church tower . 
Ah , Winnie , Winnie , you little witch , we shall die together . 
Then he turned away with a joke , and began to feed her nicely , for she was very dainty . 
Not a husk of oat would she touch that had been under the breath of another horse , however hungry she might be . 
And with her oats he mixed some powder , fetching it from his saddle bags . 
What this was I could not guess , neither would he tell me , but laughed and called it 'star shavings . 
Afterwards by the fireside he kept us very merry , sitting in the great chimney corner , and making us play games with him . 
I wanted him to let me do it , but he said , 'No , my son it is not meant for boys . 
One breath , however , was quite enough , for it made her cough so violently that Lizzie and I must thump her back until she was almost crying . 
Without halting once for a word or a deed , his tales flowed onward as freely and brightly as the flames of the wood up the chimney , and with no smaller variety . 
And indeed I think that the sway of the balance hung upon the company we were in . 
For instance , with the boys at Brendon for there is no village at Oare I was exceeding proud to talk of him , and would freely brag of my Cousin Tom . 
, I will tell the history of him , just as if he were not my cousin , and hoping to be heeded . 
And I defy any man to say that a word of this is either false , or in any way coloured by family . 
Much cause he had to be harsh with the world and yet all acknowledged him very pleasant , when a man gave up his money . 
And often and often he paid the toll for the carriage coming after him , because he had emptied their pockets , and would not add inconvenience . 
he began to work right early , and made such a fame at the shoeing of horses , that the farriers of Barum were like to lose their custom . 
And indeed he won a golden Jacobus for the best shod nag in the north of Devon , and some say that he never was forgiven . 
As to that , I know no more , except that men are jealous . 
And Betsy's things were ready too for which they accused him afterwards , as if he could help that when suddenly , like a thunderbolt , a lawyer's writ fell upon him . 
It is said that they even gave him notice to pay for Betsy's wedding clothes , now that he was too poor to marry her . 
God help me now to prey on the world . 
to the very best fare of the hostel . 
And so the landlords did and he always paid them handsomely , so that all of them were kind to him , and contended for his visits . 
One of his earliest meetings was with Sir Robert Bampfylde himself , who was riding along the Barum road with only one serving man after him . 
Tom Faggus put a pistol to his head , being then obliged to be violent , through want of reputation while the serving man pretended to be along way round the corner . 
Then the baronet pulled out his purse , quite trembling in the hurry of his politeness . 
Then he turned to the unfaithful knave , and trounced him right well for his cowardice , and stripped him of all his property . 
But now Mr. Faggus kept only one horse , lest the Government should steal them and that one was the young mare Winnie . 
Everybody cursed the Doones , who lived apart disdainfully . 
But mother would not let me have the gun , until he averred upon his honour that he had bought it honestly . 
And so he had , no doubt , so far as it is honest to buy with money acquired rampantly . 
Scarce could I stop to make my bullets in the mould which came along with it , but must be off to the Quarry Hill , and new target I had made there . 
And he taught me then how to ride bright Winnie , who was grown since I had seen her , but remembered me most kindly . 
Now I feel that of those boyish days I have little more to tell , because everything went quietly , as the world for the most part does with us . 
Let that pass what odds to any how tall or wide I be ? There is no Doone's door at Plover's Barrows and if there were I could never go through it . 
But mother was very proud , and said she never could have too much of me . 
, but that her wit was full of corners , jagged , and strange , and uncomfortable . 
You never could tell what she might say next and I like not that kind of women . 
Now God forgive me for talking so of my own father's daughter , and so much the more by reason that my father could not help it . 
The right way is to face the matter , and then be sorry for every one . 
My mother fell grievously on a slide , which John Fry had made nigh the apple room door , and hidden with straw from the stable , to cover his own great idleness . 
My father laid John's nose on the ice , and kept him warm in spite of it but it was too late for Eliza . 
She was born next day with more mind than body the worst thing that can befall a man . 
But Annie , my other sister , was now a fine fair girl , beautiful to behold . 
I could look at her by the fireside , for an hour together , when I was not too sleepy , and think of my dear father . 
And she would do the same thing by me , only wait the between of the blazes . 
Her hair was done up in a knot behind , but some would fall over her shoulders and the dancing of the light was sweet to see through a man's eyelashes . 
There never was a face that showed the light or the shadow of feeling , as if the heart were sun to it , more than our dear Annie's did . 
God knows that I try to be simple enough , to keep to His meaning in me , and not make the worst of His children . 
As for the Doones , they were thriving still , and no one to come against them except indeed by word of mouth , to which they lent no heed whatever . 
, and once or twice in the highest of all , to wit , the King himself . 
, and was so much pleased with himself thereupon , that he quite forgave the mischief . 
Therefore the Doones went on as they listed , and none saw fit to meddle with them . 
ought to do something against those Doones , and show what I was made of . 
And I doubt but men of true English birth are stouter than so to be twisted , though some of the women may take that turn , if their own life runs unkindly . 
Let that pass I am never good at talking of things beyond me . 
Now a strange thing came to pass that winter , when I was twenty one years old , a very strange thing , which affrighted the rest , and made me feel uncomfortable . 
Not that there was anything in it , to do harm to any one , only that none could explain it , except by attributing it to the devil . 
but vast lonely birds , that cried at night , and moved the whole air with their pinions yet no man ever saw them . 
But the danger of course was far less in this than in losing of the track , and falling into the mires , or over the brim of a precipice . 
And beside this folly and wildness of youth , perchance there was something , I know not what , of the joy we have in uncertainty . 
It reminded me , too , of Blundell's bell , and the grief to go into school again . 
, the saddest and the heaviest thing was to stand beside the sea . 
said that our strange winter arose from a thing he called the 'Gulf stream' , rushing up Channel suddenly . 
I was fond of going to Lynmouth on Sunday to hear this old man talk , for sometimes he would discourse with me , when nobody else could move him . 
As for nuts he winked awhile , and chewed a piece of tobacco yet did I not comprehend him . 
too much astray to learn its duty . 
But De Whichehalse , our great magistrate , certified that there was no proof of unlawful importation neither good cause to suspect it , at a time of Christian charity . 
Let that be , it is none of my business to speak evil of dignities duly we common people joked of the 'Gulp stream , as we called it . 
That which made as crouch in by the fire , or draw the bed clothes over us , and try to think of something else , was a strange mysterious sound . 
And then there was rushing of something by , and melancholy laughter , and the hair of a man would stand on end before he could reason properly . 
There were many stories about it , of course , all over the breadth of the moorland . 
To that , however , I paid no heed , when anybody was with me only we drew more close together , and barred the doors at sunset . 
CHAPTER XIII MASTER HUCKABACK COMES IN Mr. Reuben Huckaback , whom many good folk in Dulverton will remember long after my time , was my mother's uncle , being indeed her mother's brother . 
He owned the very best shop in the town , and did a fine trade in soft ware , especially when the pack horses came safely in at Christmas time . 
, mother beheld it a Christian duty to keep as well as could be with him , both for love of a nice old man , and for the sake of her children . 
to send safe home to Dulverton , and what was more , with their loads quite safe , a goodly string of packhorses . 
Nearly half of their charge was for Uncle Reuben , and he knew how to make the most of it . 
It had been settled between us that we should expect him soon after noon on the last day of December . 
'Get out of that now , Betty , I said in my politest manner , for really Betty was now become a great domestic evil . 
She would have her own way so , and of all things the most distressful was for a man to try to reason . 
'A rare good dinner , you mean , Betty . 
Well , and I have a rare good appetite . 
With that I wanted to go and smell it , and not to stop for Betty . 
'Troost thee for thiccy , Jan Ridd . 
But thee must keep it bit langer , I reckon . 
Her baint coom , Maister Ziderpress . 
Only I tell 'e , her baint coom . 
Rackon them Dooneses hath gat 'un . 
But I misliking so to be treated , strode through the kitchen indignantly , for Betty behaved to me even now , as if I were only Eliza . 
There is something sadly amiss , Johnny . 
but simply for her children's sake , because Uncle Ben had given them . 
'Well , mother , what is the matter , then ? 'I am sure you need not be angry , Johnny . 
I only hope it is nothing to grieve about , instead of being angry . 
He would set up a shop by the river side , and come away with all their money . 
But let us have our dinner . 
You know we promised not to wait for him after one o'clock and you only make us hungry . 
That is to say , unless you think' for she looked very grave about it 'unless you really think , mother , that I ought to go without dinner . 
If one of them had bolted away , no doubt I had let go at him . 
was full of great drops and prickly , whereat I was very proud . 
'Girt Jan Ridd , I was called already , and folk grew feared to wrestle with me though I was tired of hearing about it , and often longed to be smaller . 
And most of all upon Sundays , when I had to make way up our little church , and the maidens tittered at me . 
Therefore I went on again , making company of myself , and keeping my gun quite ready . 
Against that stone I set my gun , trying my spirit to leave it so , but keeping with half a hand for it and then what to do next was the wonder . 
, and between them there was nothing more than waiting for the next one . 
Then everything went out of sight , and glad was I of the stone behind me , and view of mine own shoes . 
Then a distant noise went by me , as of many horses galloping , and in my fright I set my gun and said , 'God send something to shoot at . 
Yet nothing came , and my gun fell back , without my will to lower it . 
I listened , and feared , and yet listened again , though I wanted not to hear it . 
For being in haste of the homeward road , and all my heart having heels to it , loath I was to stop in the dusk for the sake of an aged wether . 
Yet partly my love of all animals , and partly my fear of the farmer's disgrace , compelled me to go to the succour , and the noise was coming nearer . 
A dry short wheezing sound it was , barred with coughs and want of breath but thus I made the meaning of it . 
I made towards the sound , as nigh as ever I could guess , and presently was met , point blank , by the head of a mountain pony . 
Upon its back lay a man bound down , with his feet on the neck and his head to the tail , and his arms falling down like stirrups . 
The wild little nag was scared of its life by the unaccustomed burden , and had been tossing and rolling hard , in desire to get ease of it . 
'Good and worthy sir , I said to the man who was riding so roughly 'fear nothing no harm shall come to thee . 
And to tell the truth he snored so loudly , that I could almost believe that fearful noise in the fog every night came all the way from Dulverton . 
Very little as yet , very little indeed and ever so much gone to day along of them rascal robbers . 
'But , I said , 'you shall have him , sir , and welcome , if you will only ride him home as first I found you riding him . 
And with that he dropped it . 
I had a great mind to give him the pony , because he thought himself cheated in that case only he would conclude that I did it with some view to a legacy . 
Now Mr. Huckaback growing able to walk in a few days' time , became thereupon impatient , and could not be brought to understand why he should have been robbed at all . 
But say what we would , it was all as one . 
Uncle Ben stuck fast to it , that he had nothing to thank God for . 
and thorough good honest girls they were , fit helpmates either for shop or farm . 
All of which was meant for me but I stuck to my platter and answered not . 
, was mightily pleased and very pleasant , according to his town bred ways . 
Farmer Snowe sat up in the corner , caring little to bear about anything , but smoking slowly , and nodding backward like a sheep dog dreaming . 
Howsoever , he kept his breath from speech , giving privilege , as was due , to mother . 
'Zettle the pralimbinaries , spoke Farmer Snowe , on appeal from us , 'virst zettle the pralimbinaries and then us knows what be drivin' at . 
'Preliminaries be damned , sir , cried Uncle Ben , losing his temper . 
But Uncle Ben took it in a different way . 
He thought that we all were afraid of him , and that Oare parish was but as Moab or Edom , for him to cast his shoe over . 
'Well , uncle , I made answer , 'I will grease your boots all the same for that , so long as you be our guest , sir . 
Now , that answer , made without a thought , stood me for two thousand pounds , as you shall see , by and by , perhaps . 
'As for the parish , my mother cried , being too hard set to contain herself , 'the parish can defend itself , and we may leave it to do so . 
But our Jack is not like that , sir and I will not have him spoken of . 
'That they are not and never will be and you ought to know it , Uncle Reuben , if any one in the world ought . 
Other people's children ! 'Well , well ! Uncle Reuben answered , 'I know very little of children except my little Ruth , and she is nothing wonderful . 
'I never said that my children were wonderful Uncle Ben nor did I ever think it . 
But Farmer Snowe came forward now , for he had some sense sometimes and he thought it was high time for him to say a word for the parish . 
For we , in our rude part of the world , counted it one of the worst disgraces that could befall a man , to receive the lie from any one . 
But Uncle Ben , as it seems was used to it , in the way of trade , just as people of fashion are , by a style of courtesy . 
But now let us hear from Uncle Reuben what he would have us do to remove this disgrace from amongst us , and to satisfy him of his goods . 
'I care not for my goods , woman , Master Huckaback answered grandly 'although they were of large value , about them I say nothing . 
But what I demand is this , the punishment of those scoundrels . 
'Zober , man , zober ! cried Farmer Nicholas 'we be too naigh Badgery 'ood , to spake like that of they Dooneses . 
Pack of cowards , cried Uncle Ben , rising and shaking his lappets at us 'don't pretend to answer me . 
, Uncle Reuben began to think that he might have been too hard with us . 
Moreover , he was beginning now to respect Farmer Nicholas bravely , because of the way he had smoked his pipes , and the little noise made over them . 
, Master Huckaback stood up , without much aid from the crock saw , and looked at mother and all of us . 
'Let no one leave this place , said he , 'until I have said what I want to say for saving of ill will among us and growth of cheer and comfort . 
May be I have carried things too far , even to the bounds of churlishness , and beyond the bounds of good manners . 
If you folks upon Exmoor here are loath and wary at fighting , yet you are brave at better stuff the best and kindest I ever knew , in the matter of feeding . 
Here he sat down with tears in his eyes , and called for a little mulled bastard . 
All the maids , who were now come back , raced to get it for him , but Annie of course was foremost . 
And herein ended the expedition , a perilous and a great one , against the Doones of Bagworthy an enterprise over which we had all talked plainly more than was good for us . 
managed to whisper to Annie . 
to see Uncle Reuben through with it and it added much to my self esteem to be the guard of so rich a man . 
But for divers reasons I held my peace , partly from youth and modesty , partly from desire to see whatever please God I should see , and partly from other causes . 
When we arrived at Ley Manor , we were shown very civilly into the hall , and refreshed with good ale and collared head , and the back of a Christmas pudding . 
before and it pleased me greatly to be so kindly entreated by high born folk . 
After that , we were called to the Justice room , where the Baron himself was sitting with Colonel Harding , another Justiciary of the King's peace , to help him . 
And indeed he was kind to everybody , and all our people spoke well of him and so much the more because we knew that the house was in decadence . 
For the first De Whichehalse had come from Holland , where he had been a great nobleman , some hundred and fifty years agone . 
Being persecuted for his religion , when the Spanish power was everything , he fled to England with all he could save , and bought large estates in Devonshire . 
And so about fifty years before the time of which I am writing , there were few names in the West of England thought more of than De Whichehalse . 
But now they had lost a great deal of land , and therefore of that which goes with land , as surely as fame belongs to earth I mean big reputation . 
How they had lost it , none could tell except that as the first descendants had a manner of amassing , so the later ones were gifted with a power of scattering . 
Whether this came of good Devonshire blood opening the sluice of Low Country veins , is beyond both my province and my power to inquire . 
Anyhow , all people loved this last strain of De Whichehalse far more than the name had been liked a hundred years agone . 
, and thin lips curving delicately , this gentleman rose as we entered the room while Colonel Harding turned on his chair , and struck one spur against the other . 
I am sure that , without knowing aught of either , we must have reverenced more of the two the one who showed respect to us . 
Of him Uncle Reuben took no notice , but addressed himself to De Whichehalse . 
The Baron smiled very gently , so soon as he learned the cause of this visit , and then he replied quite reasonably . 
'A warrant against the Doones , Master Huckaback . 
Which of the Doones , so please you and the Christian names , what be they ? 'My lord , I am not their godfather and most like they never had any . 
But we all know old Sir Ensor's name , so that may be no obstacle . 
'Sir Ensor Doone and his sons so be it . 
'A warrant against Sir Ensor Doone , and seven sons of Sir Ensor Doone , Christian names unknown , and doubted if they have any . 
So far so good Master Huckaback . 
I have it all down in writing . 
Moreover , I can pay for any mistake I make . 
Therein need be no obstacle . 
'Oh , yes , he can pay he can pay well enough , said Colonel Harding shortly . 
'I am heartily glad to hear it , replied the Baron pleasantly 'for it proves after all that this robbery was not so very ruinous . 
Sometimes people think they are robbed , and then it is very sweet afterwards to find that they have not been so for it adds to their joy in their property . 
stole , or took , or even borrowed anything at all from you ? 'My lord , do you think that I was drunk ? 'Not for a moment , Master Huckaback . 
Although excuse might be made for you at this time of the year . 
But how did you know that your visitors were of this particular family ? 'Because it could be nobody else . 
Because , in spite of the fog 'Fog ! cried Colonel Harding sharply . 
'Fog ! said the Baron , with emphasis . 
'Ah , that explains the whole affair . 
To be sure , now I remember , the weather has been too thick for a man to see the head of his own horse . 
could never have come abroad that is as sure as simony . 
Master Huckaback , for your good sake , I am heartily glad that this charge has miscarried . 
I thoroughly understand it now . 
The fog explains the whole of it . 
'Go back , my good fellow , said Colonel Harding 'and if the day is clear enough , you will find all your things where you left them . 
I know , from my own experience , what it is to be caught in an Exmoor fog . 
Uncle Reuben , by this time , was so put out , that he hardly knew what he was saying . 
to mention what need be an obstacle , and , I fear , would prove a fatal one , even if satisfactory proof were afforded of a felony . 
'Depend upon it you were wrong , John , was all I could get out of her though what had I done but listen , and touch my forelock , when called upon . 
'John , you may take my word for it , you have not done as you should have done . 
Your father would have been shocked to think of going to Baron de Whichehalse , and in his own house insulting him ! And yet it was very brave of you John . 
Just like you , all over . 
I am proud of you for doing it . 
All throughout the homeward road , Uncle Ben had been very silent , feeling much displeased with himself and still more so with other people . 
But before he went to bed that night , he just said to me , 'Nephew Jack , you have not behaved so badly as the rest to me . 
And because you have no gift of talking , I think that I may trust you . 
Now , mark my words , this villain job shall not have ending here . 
I have another card to play . 
No , I will go to the King himself , or a man who is bigger than the King , and to whom I have ready access . 
I will not tell thee his name at present , only if thou art brought before him , never wilt thou forget it . 
That was true enough , by the bye , as I discovered afterwards , for the man he meant was Judge Jeffreys . 
Only remember my words , Jack , and when you see the man I mean , look straight at him , and tell no lie . 
He will make some of your zany squires shake in their shoes , I reckon . 
Now , I have been in this lonely hole far longer than I intended , by reason of this outrage yet I will stay here one day more upon a certain condition . 
'Upon what condition , Uncle Ben ? I grieve that you find it so lonely . 
We will have Farmer Nicholas up again , and the singers , and 'The fashionable milkmaids . 
I thank you , let me be . 
The wenches are too loud for me . 
Nanny is a good child , and she shall come and visit me . 
Uncle Reuben would always call her 'Nanny' he said that 'Annie' was too fine and Frenchified for us . 
Can you do this for me ? I will pay you well , boy . 
I promised very readily to do my best to serve him , but , of course , would take no money for it , not being so poor as that came to . 
I could see that he was half amiss with his mind about the business , and not so full of security as an elderly man should keep himself . 
Therefore , out I spake , and said , 'Uncle Reuben , have no fear . 
I know every inch of the ground , sir and there is no danger nigh us . 
'Fear , boy ! Who ever thought of fear ? 'Tis the last thing would come across me . 
At once I thought of Lorna Doone , the little maid of six years back , and how my fancy went with her . 
For we were come to Bagworthy forest , the blackest and the loneliest place of all that keep the sun out . 
Even now , in winter time , with most of the wood unriddled , and the rest of it pinched brown , it hung around us like a cloak containing little comfort . 
I kept quite close to Peggy's head , and Peggy kept quite close to me , and pricked her ears at everything . 
And we knew that we could not go astray , so long as we breasted the hill before us inasmuch as it formed the rampart , or side fence of Glen Doone . 
And now far the first time I was amazed at the appearance of the Doones's stronghold , and understood its nature . 
The chine of highland , whereon we stood , curved to the right and left of us , keeping about the same elevation , and crowned with trees and brushwood . 
One of these clefts was the Doone gate , with a portcullis of rock above it , and the other was the chasm by which I had once made entrance . 
It looked as if no frost could enter neither wind go ruffling only spring , and hope , and comfort , breathe to one another . 
Even now the rays of sunshine dwelt and fell back on one another , whenever the clouds lifted and the pale blue glimpse of the growing day seemed to find young encouragement . 
But for all that , Uncle Reuben was none the worse nor better . 
'See what a pack of fools they be ? 'Of course I do , Uncle Ben . 
All rogues are fools , was my first copy , beginning of the alphabet . 
Though true enough , and very good for young people . 
'Three culverins on yonder hill , and three on the top of this one , and we have them under a pestle . 
For I had long ago descried that little opening in the cliff through which I made my exit , as before related , on the other side of the valley . 
Now gazing at it with full thought of all that it had cost me , I saw a little figure come , and pause , and pass into it . 
Something very light and white , nimble , smooth , and elegant , gone almost before I knew that any one had been there . 
, weal or woe , in Lorna Doone . 
CHAPTER XVI LORNA GROWING FORMIDABLE Having reconnoitred thus the position of the enemy , Master Huckaback , on the homeward road , cross examined me in a manner not at all desirable . 
For he had noted my confusion and eager gaze at something unseen by him in the valley , and thereupon he made up his mind to know everything about it . 
Thus much however , he learned aright , that I had been in the Doone valley several years before , and might be brought upon strong inducement to venture there again . 
Upon one point , however , he succeeded more easily than he expected , viz . 
in making me promise to visit the place again , as soon as occasion offered , and to hold my own counsel about it . 
But I could not help smiling at one thing , that according to his point of view my own counsel meant my own and Master Reuben Huckaback's . 
how badly they would take the water . 
What with urging of the tailor , and my own misgivings , the time was now come round again to the high day of St . 
Valentine , when all our maids were full of lovers , and all the lads looked foolish . 
And what of all things scared me most was the thought of my own size , and knowledge of my strength , which came like knots upon me daily . 
Not being now so much afraid , I struck across the thicket land between the meeting waters , and came upon the Bagworthy stream near the great black whirlpool . 
Nothing amazed me so much as to find how shallow the stream now looked to me , although the pool was still as black and greedy as it used to be . 
And still the great rocky slide was dark and difficult to climb though the water , which once had taken my knees , was satisfied now with my ankles . 
After some labour , I reached the top and halted to look about me well , before trusting to broad daylight . 
had been a very mild one and now the spring was toward so that bank and bush were touched with it . 
The valley into which I gazed was fair with early promise , having shelter from the wind and taking all the sunshine . 
The willow bushes over the stream hung as if they were angling with tasseled floats of gold and silver , bursting like a bean pod . 
Between them came the water laughing , like a maid at her own dancing , and spread with that young blue which never lives beyond the April . 
daisy bud or celandine , or a shy glimpse now and then of the love lorn primrose . 
I feel with every blade of grass , as if it had a history and make a child of every bud as though it knew and loved me . 
And being so , they seem to tell me of my own delusions , how I am no more than they , except in self importance . 
The words were of an ancient song , fit to laugh or cry at . 
Love , an if there be one , Come my love to be , My love is for the one Loving unto me . 
Not for me the show , love , Of a gilded bliss Only thou must know , love , What my value is . 
If in all the earth , love , Thou hast none but me , This shall be my worth , love To be cheap to thee . 
But , if so thou ever Strivest to be free , 'Twill be my endeavour To be dear to thee . 
So shall I have plea , love , Is thy heart andbreath Clinging still to thee , love , In the doom of death . 
, but for the power and richness , and softness of the singing , which seemed to me better than we ever had even in Oare church . 
should be alarmed , and flee away . 
But presently I ventured to look forth where a bush was and then I beheld the loveliest sight one glimpse of which was enough to make me kneel in the coldest water . 
The pale gleam over the western cliffs threw a shadow of light behind her , as if the sun were lingering . 
Never do I see that light from the closing of the west , even in these my aged days , without thinking of her . 
To me it was a thing of terror to behold such beauty , and feel myself the while to be so very low and common . 
But scarcely knowing what I did , as if a rope were drawing me , I came from the dark mouth of the chasm and stood , afraid to look at her . 
'Yes , the poor boy who was frightened so , and obliged to hide here in the water . 
But you seem not to remember , sir , how perilous this place is . 
Unless themselves should fill with love , which is the spring of all things . 
And so I could not answer her , but was overcome with thinking and feeling and confusion . 
Neither could I look again only waited for the melody which made every word like a poem to me , the melody of her voice . 
But she had not the least idea of what was going on with me , any more than I myself had . 
'Yes , I know enough of that and I am frightened greatly , all the time , when I do not look at you . 
She was too young to answer me in the style some maidens would have used the manner , I mean , which now we call from a foreign word 'coquettish . 
And more than that , she was trembling from real fear of violence , lest strong hands might be laid on me , and a miserable end of it . 
And to tell the truth , I grew afraid perhaps from a kind of sympathy , and because I knew that evil comes more readily than good to us . 
it struck me that I had better go , and have no more to say to her until next time of coming . 
So would she look the more for me and think the more about me , and not grow weary of my words and the want of change there is in me . 
For , of course , I knew what a churl I was compared to her birth and appearance but meanwhile I might improve myself and learn a musical instrument . 
'The wind hath a draw after flying straw' is a saying we have in Devonshire , made , peradventure , by somebody who had seen the ways of women . 
'Mistress Lorna , I will depart' mark you , I thought that a powerful word 'in fear of causing disquiet . 
If any rogue shot me it would grieve you I make bold to say it , and it would be the death of mother . 
Few mothers have such a son as me . 
Try to think of me now and then , and I will bring you some new laid eggs , for our young blue hen is beginning . 
'I thank you heartily , said Lorna 'but you need not come to see me . 
You can put them in my little bower , where I am almost always I mean whither daily I repair to read and to be away from them . 
'Only show me where it is . 
And she smiled with a light that made me care to cry out for no other way , except to her dear heart . 
But only to myself I cried for anything at all , having enough of man in me to be bashful with young maidens . 
to think she would condescend so and then , for the rest of the homeward road , was mad with every man in the world who would dare to think of having her . 
how I loved my Lorna . 
Perhaps I have two farrows of pigs ready for the chapman perhaps I have ten stones of wool waiting for the factor . 
It is all the same . 
Of course , I fetch my wit , if it be worth the fetching , back again to business . 
But there my heart is and must be and all who like to try can cheat me , except upon parish matters . 
That week I could do little more than dream and dream and rove about , seeking by perpetual change to find the way back to myself . 
I cared not for the people round me , neither took delight in victuals but made believe to eat and drink and blushed at any questions . 
For that was the way they looked at it , not being able to comprehend the greatness and the loftiness . 
Neither do I blame them much for the wisest thing is to laugh at people when we cannot understand them . 
I , for my part , took no notice but in my heart despised them as beings of a lesser nature , who never had seen Lorna . 
This seems little to me now and so it might to any one but , at the time , it worked me up to a fever of indignity . 
Afterwards he went home , too tired to tell his wife the meaning of it but it proved of service to both of them , and an example for their children . 
Lest we should be like the Southerns , for whom the sky does everything , and men sit under a wall and watch both food and fruit come beckoning . 
Their sky is a mother to them but ours a good stepmother to us fearing to hurt by indulgence , and knowing that severity and change of mood are wholesome . 
The spring being now too forward , a check to it was needful and in the early part of March there came a change of weather . 
All the young growth was arrested by a dry wind from the east , which made both face and fingers burn when a man was doing ditching . 
In the hedges any man , unless his eyes were very dull , could see the mischief doing . 
The russet of the young elm bloom was fain to be in its scale again but having pushed forth , there must be , and turn to a tawny colour . 
the shuddering of everything and the shivering sound among them toward the feeble sun such as we make to a poor fireplace when several doors are open . 
And if it did he might strike his breast , and try to think he was warmer . 
Every ridge of new turned earth looked like an old man's muscles , honeycombed , and standing out void of spring , and powdery . 
Every plant that had rejoiced in passing such a winter now was cowering , turned away , unfit to meet the consequence . 
Flowing sap had stopped its course fluted lines showed want of food , and if you pinched the topmost spray , there was no rebound or firmness . 
And he got those grafts by sheltering a poor Italian soldier , in the time of James the First , a man who never could do enough to show his grateful memories . 
How he came to our place is a very difficult story , which I never understood rightly , having heard it from my mother . 
And among these buds were gray green blades , scarce bigger than a hair almost , yet curving so as if their purpose was to shield the blossom . 
These buds , at a distance , looked as if the sky had been raining cream upon them . 
Now all this fair delight to the eyes , and good promise to the palate , was marred and baffled by the wind and cutting of the night frosts . 
And there the little stalk of each , which might have been a pear , God willing , had a ring around its base , and sought a chance to drop and die . 
Now this I have not told because I know the way to do it , for that I do not , neither yet have seen a man who did know . 
, not indeed , what the maiden was like , but how she differed from others . 
to eat my share of victuals , and cuff a man for laziness , and see that a ploughshare made no leaps , and sleep of a night without dreaming . 
, my mother gave me little rest , when I was in the room with her . 
This was , that I could not settle , turn and twist as I might , how soon I ought to go again upon a visit to Glen Doone . 
, the creeping out of sight , and hiding , and feeling as a spy might . 
And even more than this . 
However , I could not bring myself to consult any one upon this point , at least in our own neighbourhood , nor even to speak of it near home . 
Now the wisest person in all our parts was reckoned to be a certain wise woman , well known all over Exmoor by the name of Mother Melldrum . 
Her real name was Maple Durham , as I learned long afterwards and she came of an ancient family , but neither of Devon nor Somerset . 
Mother Melldrum had two houses , or rather she had none at all , but two homes wherein to find her , according to the time of year . 
by Satan , for a wager . 
But throughout the winter , she found sea air agreeable , and a place where things could be had on credit , and more occasion of talking . 
in the neighbourhood of Tarr steps only there was no one handy owning things worth taking . 
Our homefolk always call it the Danes , or the Denes , which is no more , they tell me , than a hollow place , even as the word 'den' is . 
It is a green rough sided hollow , bending at the middle , touched with stone at either crest , and dotted here and there with slabs in and out the brambles . 
On the right hand is an upward crag , called by some the Castle , easy enough to scale , and giving great view of the Channel . 
was like to such an implement , if Satan eat cheese untoasted . 
But all the middle of this valley was a place to rest in to sit and think that troubles were not , if we would not make them . 
To know the sea outside the hills , but never to behold it only by the sound of waves to pity sailors labouring . 
And then to fall asleep and dream that the fern was all asparagus . 
Alas , I was too young in those days much to care for creature comforts , or to let pure palate have things that would improve it . 
Anything went down with me , as it does with most of us . 
Too late we know the good from bad the knowledge is no pleasure then being memory's medicine rather than the wine of hope . 
Under eaves of lichened rock she had a winding passage , which none that ever I knew of durst enter but herself . 
And to this place I went to seek her , in spite of all misgivings , upon a Sunday in Lenten season , when the sheep were folded . 
The parson , who always sat next to mother , was afraid that he might have vexed us , and would not have the best piece of meat , according to his custom . 
But soon we put him at his ease , and showed him we were proud of him and then he made no more to do , but accepted the best of the sirloin . 
CHAPTER XVIII WITCHERY LEADS TO WITCHCRAFT Although wellnigh the end of March , the wind blew wild and piercing , as I went on foot that afternoon to Mother Melldrum's dwelling . 
she should put a spell upon him as had been done to Farmer Snowe's stable by the wise woman of Simonsbath . 
In patches underneath the crags , a few wild goats were browsing then they tossed their horns , and fled , and leaped on ledges , and stared at me . 
Moreover , the sound of the sea came up , and went the length of the valley , and there it lapped on a butt of rocks , and murmured like a shell . 
shook so much that it came out , and I could not get it in again . 
'This serves me right , I said to myself , 'for tampering with Beelzebub . 
But upon that remembrance , my conscience took me by the leg , so that I could not go forward . 
All this while , the fearful woman was coming near and more near to me and I was glad to sit down on a rock because my knees were shaking so . 
I tried to think of many things , but none of them would come to me and I could not take my eyes away , though I prayed God to be near me . 
But when she was come so nigh to me that I could descry her features , there was something in her countenance that made me not dislike her . 
She looked as if she had been visited by many troubles , and had felt them one by one , yet held enough of kindly nature still to grieve for others . 
Long white hair , on either side , was falling down below her chin and through her wrinkles clear bright eyes seemed to spread themselves upon me . 
Give me forth thy hand , John Ridd and tell why thou art come to me . 
But I was so much amazed at her knowing my name and all about me , that I feared to place my hand in her power , or even my tongue by speaking . 
'Have no fear of me , my son I have no gift to harm thee and if I had , it should be idle . 
Now , if thou hast any wit , tell me why I love thee . 
'I never had any wit , mother , I answered in our Devonshire way 'and never set eyes on thee before , to the furthest of my knowledge . 
'And yet I know thee as well , John , as if thou wert my grandson . 
And we did not seek to ask her more as our manner is with visitors . 
Therefore I stood up and said , though scarcely yet established in my power against hers , 'Good mother , the shoe she lost was in the mire , and not with us . 
And we could not match it , although we gave her a pair of sister Lizzie's . 
'My son , what care I for her shoe ? How simple thou art , and foolish ! according to the thoughts of some . 
Now tell me , for thou canst not lie , what has brought thee to me . 
Being so ashamed and bashful , I was half inclined to tell her a lie , until she said that I could not do it and then I knew that I could not . 
'I am come to know , I said , looking at a rock the while , to keep my voice from shaking , 'when I may go to see Lorna Doone . 
No more could I say , though my mind was charged to ask fifty other questions . 
But although I looked away , it was plain that I had asked enough . 
I felt that the wise woman gazed at me in wrath as well as sorrow and then I grew angry that any one should seem to make light of Lorna . 
, 'of whom art thou speaking ? Is it a child of the men who slew your father ? 'I cannot tell , mother . 
I waited for her to speak again , because she had spoken so sadly that it took my breath away . 
'John Ridd , if thou hast any value for thy body or thy soul , thy mother , or thy father's name , have nought to do with any Doone . 
If it were God's will for me to have no more of Lorna , let a sign come out of the rocks , and I would try to believe it . 
But no sign came , and I turned to the woman , and longed that she had been a man . 
John the Baptist and his cousins , with the wool and hyssop , are for mares , and ailing dogs , and fowls that have the jaundice . 
Look at me now , Mother Melldrum , am I like a fool ? 'That thou art , my son . 
Alas that it were any other ! Now behold the end of that John Ridd , mark the end of it . 
She pointed to the castle rock , where upon a narrow shelf , betwixt us and the coming stars , a bitter fight was raging . 
A fine fat sheep , with an honest face , had clomb up very carefully to browse on a bit of juicy grass , now the dew of the land was upon it . 
To him , from an upper crag , a lean black goat came hurrying , with leaps , and skirmish of the horns , and an angry noise in his nostrils . 
The goat had grazed the place before , to the utmost of his liking , cropping in and out with jerks , as their manner is of feeding . 
Nevertheless he fell on the sheep with fury and great malice . 
The simple wether was much inclined to retire from the contest , but looked around in vain for any way to peace and comfort . 
His enemy stood between him and the last leap he had taken there was nothing left him but to fight , or be hurled into the sea , five hundred feet below . 
'Lie down , lie down , John Ridd ! cried Mother Melldrum , mocking me , but without a sign of smiling . 
But just as my head topped the platform of rock , I saw him flung from it backward , with a sad low moan and a gurgle . 
, and although I ran most part of the way , it was very late for farm house time upon a Sunday evening before I was back at Plover's Barrows . 
My mother had great desire to know all about the matter but I could not reconcile it with my respect so to frighten her . 
These indeed had some effect , and helped to pass a week or two , with more pain of hand than heart to me . 
For now the fields were spread with growth , and the waters clad with sunshine , and light and shadow , step by step , wandered over the furzy cleves . 
All the sides of the hilly wood were gathered in and out with green , silver grey , or russet points , according to the several manner of the trees beginning . 
, and all the sprays above were rasped and trembling with a redness . 
And so I stopped beneath the tree , and carved L. D. upon it , and wondered at the buds of thought that seemed to swell inside me . 
It lay upon my conscience often that I had not made dear Annie secret to this history although in all things I could trust her , and she loved me like a lamb . 
And then I would remember too that I had no right to speak of Lorna as if she were common property . 
Therefore I was armed with nothing but a good stout holly staff , seasoned well for many a winter in our back kitchen chimney . 
There was that power all round , that power and that goodness , which make us come , as it were , outside our bodily selves , to share them . 
Over and beside us breathes the joy of hope and promise under foot are troubles past in the distance bowering newness tempts us ever forward . 
We quicken with largesse of life , and spring with vivid mystery . 
And , in good sooth , I had to spring , and no mystery about it , ere ever I got to the top of the rift leading into Doone glade . 
For the stream was rushing down in strength , and raving at every corner a mort of rain having fallen last night and no wind come to wipe it . 
However , I reached the head ere dark with more difficulty than danger , and sat in a place which comforted my back and legs desirably . 
Yet before their carkled edges bent more than a driven saw , down the water came again with heavy drops and pats of running , and bright anger at neglect . 
This was very pleasant to me , now and then , to gaze at , blinking as the water blinked , and falling back to sleep again . 
Suddenly my sleep was broken by a shade cast over me between me and the low sunlight Lorna Doone was standing . 
'Master Ridd , are you mad ? she said , and took my hand to move me . 
'Not mad , but half asleep , I answered , feigning not to notice her , that so she might keep hold of me . 
'Come away , come away , if you care for life . 
The patrol will be here directly . 
Be quick , Master Ridd , let me hide thee . 
'I will not stir a step , said I , though being in the greatest fright that might be well imagined , unless you call me John . 
'Well , John , then Master John Ridd , be quick , if you have any to care for you . 
Without another word she led me , though with many timid glances towards the upper valley , to , and into , her little bower , where the inlet through the rock was . 
of a certain deep and perilous pit , in which I was like to drown myself through hurry and fright of boyhood . 
And even then I wondered greatly , and was vexed with Lorna for sending me in that heedless manner into such an entrance . 
But now it was clear that she had been right and the fault mine own entirely for the entrance to the pit was only to he found by seeking it . 
To the right side of this was the mouth of the pit , still looking very formidable though Lorna laughed at my fear of it , for she drew her water thence . 
But on the left was a narrow crevice , very difficult to espy , and having a sweep of grey ivy laid , like a slouching beaver , over it . 
A man here coming from the brightness of the outer air , with eyes dazed by the twilight , would never think of seeing this and following it to its meaning . 
Lorna raised the screen for me , but I had much ado to pass , on account of bulk and stature . 
Lorna laughed so quietly that I was ready to knock my head or elbows against anything , and say no more about it . 
However , I got through at last without a word of compliment , and broke into the pleasant room , the lone retreat of Lorna . 
The chamber was of unhewn rock , round , as near as might be , eighteen or twenty feet across , and gay with rich variety of fern and moss and lichen . 
Overhead there was no ceiling but the sky itself , flaked with little clouds of April whitely wandering over it . 
The floor was made of soft low grass , mixed with moss and primroses and in a niche of shelter moved the delicate wood sorrel . 
Then , after going round a little , with surprise of daylight , the water overwelled the edge , and softly went through lines of light to shadows and an untold bourne . 
'Here be some , I answered , speaking as if in spite of her . 
'I would have brought thee twice as many , but that I feared to crush them in the narrow ways , Mistress Lorna . 
And so I laid her out two dozen upon the moss of the rock ledge , unwinding the wisp of hay from each as it came safe out of my pocket . 
Moreover , you have been too kind and I am not used to kindness . 
Therefore I abstained from speech , as I would in my own pain . 
And as it happened , this was the way to make her tell me more about it . 
Her eyes were soft with trouble's shadow , and the proud lift of her neck was gone , and beauty's vanity borne down by woman's want of sustenance . 
She seemed to know what I would be at , and to doubt very greatly about it , whether as a child of old she might permit the usage . 
All sorts of things went through my head , as I made myself look away from her , for fear of being tempted beyond what I could bear . 
And the upshot of it was that I said , within my heart and through it , 'John Ridd , be on thy very best manners with this lonely maiden . 
Lorna liked me all the better for my good forbearance because she did not love me yet , and had not thought about it at least so far as I knew . 
some great power in them , as if she would not have a thing , unless her judgment leaped with it . 
Therefore let her tell the story , with her own sweet voice and manner and if ye find it wearisome , seek in yourselves the weariness . 
I know not where the beginning was , nor where the middle ought to be , nor even how at the present time I feel , or think , or ought to think . 
, I meet sometimes with laughter , and at other times with anger . 
he seems to know what is right and wrong , but not to want to think of it . 
'And among the women there are none with whom I can hold converse , since my Aunt Sabina died , who took such pains to teach me . 
In vain she strove , from year to year , to make the young men hearken , to teach them what became their birth , and give them sense of honour . 
It was her favourite word , poor thing ! and they called her Old Aunt Honour . 
And so they call me heiress to this little realm of violence and in sorry sport sometimes , I am their Princess or their Queen . 
'Many people living here , as I am forced to do , would perhaps be very happy , and perhaps I ought to be so . 
Perhaps such questions never spring in any wholesome spirit . 
But they are in the depths of mine , and I cannot be quit of them . 
'Meantime , all around me is violence and robbery , coarse delight and savage pain , reckless joke and hopeless death . 
Then thinking that might be bad manners , I went to wipe her eyes for her . 
'Master Ridd , she began again , 'I am both ashamed and vexed at my own childish folly . 
what a lonely nature is . 
How it leaps in mirth sometimes , with only heaven touching it and how it falls away desponding , when the dreary weight creeps on . 
'It does not happen many times that I give way like this more shame now to do so , when I ought to entertain you . 
They used to boast to Aunt Sabina of pillage and of cruelty , on purpose to enrage her but they never boast to me . 
'But I am talking now of things which never come across me when any work is toward . 
For , being left with none I think and nothing ever comes of it . 
Nothing , I mean , which I can grasp and have with any surety nothing but faint images , and wonderment , and wandering . 
Whether from the rustling wind , or sound of distant music , or the singing of a bird , like the sun on snow it strikes me with a pain of pleasure . 
This so moves and hurries me , in the eagerness and longing , that straightway all my chance is lost and memory , scared like a wild bird , flies . 
the heiress of this mad domain , the sanctuary of unholiness . 
Well , honour among thieves , they say and mine is the first honour although among decent folk perhaps , honesty is better . 
'We should not be so quiet here , and safe from interruption but that I have begged one privilege rather than commanded it . 
Therefore none beside the sentries ever trespass on me here , unless it be my grandfather , or the Counsellor or Carver . 
'By your face , Master Ridd , I see that you have heard of Carver Doone . 
For strength and courage and resource he bears the first repute among us , as might well be expected from the son of the Counsellor . 
But he differs from his father , in being very hot and savage , and quite free from argument . 
The Counsellor , who is my uncle , gives his son the best advice commending all the virtues , with eloquence and wisdom yet himself abstaining from them accurately and impartially . 
'You must be tired of this story , and the time I take to think , and the weakness of my telling but my life from day to day shows so little variance . 
Among the riders there is none whose safe return I watch for I mean none more than other and indeed there seems no risk , all are now so feared of us . 
neither of the women any whom I like to deal with , unless it be a little maiden whom I saved from starving . 
'A little Cornish girl she is , and shaped in western manner , not so very much less in width than if you take her lengthwise . 
of more than average excellence , and better than any two men to be found in Devonshire , or any four in Somerset . 
Very few things can have been beyond his power of performance , and yet he left his daughter to starve upon a peat rick . 
She does not know how this was done , and looks upon it as a mystery , the meaning of which will some day be clear , and redound to her father's honour . 
His name was Simon Carfax , and he came as the captain of a gang from one of the Cornish stannaries . 
Gwenny Carfax , my young maid , well remembers how her father was brought up from Cornwall . 
Her mother had been buried , just a week or so before and he was sad about it , and had been off his work , and was ready for another job . 
Then people came to him by night , and said that he must want a change , and everybody lost their wives , and work was the way to mend it . 
And from that day to this he never came above the ground again so far as we can hear of . 
, dwelt three days near the mouth of the hole and then it was closed over , the while that she was sleeping . 
With weakness and with want of food , she lost herself distressfully , and went away for miles or more , and lay upon a peat rick , to die before the ravens . 
I was allowed to visit her , for even we durst not refuse the wishes of the dying and if a priest had been desired , we should have made bold with him . 
Black root stuff was in her mouth , and a piece of dirty sheep's wool , and at her feet an old egg shell of some bird of the moorland . 
'I tried to raise her , but she was too square and heavy for me and so I put food in her mouth , and left her to do right with it . 
And this she did in a little time for the victuals were very choice and rare , being what I had taken over to tempt poor Aunt Sabina . 
Gwenny ate them without delay , and then was ready to eat the basket and the ware that contained them . 
I brought her home with me , so far as this can be a home , and she made herself my sole attendant , without so much as asking me . 
She has beaten two or three other girls , who used to wait upon me , until they are afraid to come near the house of my grandfather . 
She seems to have no kind of fear even of our roughest men and yet she looks with reverence and awe upon the Counsellor . 
As for the wickedness , and theft , and revelry around her , she says it is no concern of hers , and they know their own business best . 
Being so wide , and short , and flat , she has none to pay her compliments and , were there any , she would scorn them , as not being Cornishmen . 
another chance of finding her , and she comes back not a wit defeated , or discouraged , or depressed , but confident that he is only waiting for the proper time . 
'Herein she sets me good example of a patience and contentment hard for me to imitate . 
'Of all this golden ease I hear , but never saw the like of it and , haply , I shall never do so , being born to turbulence . 
Be content now , Master Ridd ask me nothing more about it , so your sleep be sounder . 
Therefore she went on again . 
'As yet I had not truly learned the evil of our living , the scorn of law , the outrage , and the sorrow caused to others . 
It even was a point with all to hide the roughness from me , to show me but the gallant side , and keep in shade the other . 
My grandfather , Sir Ensor Doone , had given strictest order , as I discovered afterwards , that in my presence all should be seemly , kind , and vigilant . 
And though Sir Ensor Doone is now so old and growing feeble , his own way he will have still , and no one dare deny him . 
Even our fiercest and most mighty swordsmen , seared from all sense of right or wrong , yet have plentiful sense of fear , when brought before that white haired man . 
as if I slept beneath the roof of the King's Lord Justiciary . 
'But now , at the time I speak of , one evening of last summer , a horrible thing befell , which took all play of childhood from me . 
For I must be home at the supper time , or grandfather would be exceeding wrath and the worst of his anger is that he never condescends to show it . 
'It was more almost than dusk , down below the tree leaves , and I was eager to go through , and be again beyond it . 
For the gray dark hung around me , scarcely showing shadow and the little light that glimmered seemed to come up from the ground . 
I , for my part , hastened shyly , ready to draw back and run from hare , or rabbit , or small field mouse . 
I tried to shriek , but my voice was still I could only hear my heart . 
Now , Cousin Lorna , my good cousin , he said , with ease and calmness your voice is very sweet , no doubt , from all that I can see of you . 
But I pray you keep it still , unless you would give to dusty death your very best cousin and trusty guardian , Alan Brandir of Loch Awe . 
You my guardian ! I said , for the idea was too ludicrous and ludicrous things always strike me first , through some fault of nature . 
I have in truth that honour , madam , he answered , with a sweeping bow unless I err in taking you for Mistress Lorna Doone . 
You have not mistaken me . 
My name is Lorna Doone . 
Then I am your faithful guardian , Alan Brandir of Loch Awe called Lord Alan Brandir , son of a worthy peer of Scotland . 
You , my ward , are not sixteen . 
I , your worshipful guardian , am almost nineteen years of age . 
'Upon hearing this I looked at him , for that seemed then a venerable age but the more I looked the more I doubted , although he was dressed quite like a man . 
Now am I to your liking , cousin ? he asked , when I had gazed at him , until I was almost ashamed , except at such a stripling . 
yet do I assure you , cousin , that I am not without some prowess and many a master of defence hath this good sword of mine disarmed . 
Hush ! I said talk not so loudly , or thou mayst have to do both thyself , and do them both in vain . 
, a chill of fear crept over me because he had no strength or substance , and would be no more than a pin cushion before the great swords of the Doones . 
I pray you be not vexed with me , he answered , in a softer voice for I have travelled far and sorely , for the sake of seeing you . 
I know right well among whom I am , and that their hospitality is more of the knife than the salt stand . 
Once I mind some years agone , when I was quite a stripling lad Worshipful guardian , I said , there is no time now for history . 
If thou art in no haste , I am , and cannot stay here idling . 
Only tell me how I am akin and under wardship to thee , and what purpose brings thee here . 
In order , cousin all things in order , even with fair ladies . 
But first your leave , young Mistress Lorna I cannot lay down legal maxims , without aid of smoke . 
I had never seen this done before , though acquainted with tobacco pipes and it made me laugh , until I thought of the peril that must follow it . 
Cousin , have no fear , he said this makes me all the safer they will take me for a glow worm , and thee for the flower it shines upon . 
But to return of law I learned as you may suppose , but little although I have capacities . 
But the thing was far too dull for me . 
All I care for is adventure , moving chance , and hot encounter therefore all of law I learned was how to live without it . 
There is scarce a man worth a cross of butter , but what you may find a hole in his shield within four generations . 
And so I struck our own escutcheon , and it sounded hollow . 
What noble family but springs from a captain among robbers ? Trade alone can spoil our blood robbery purifies it . 
The robbery of one age is the chivalry of the next . 
We may start anew , and vie with even the nobility of France , if we can once enrol but half the Doones upon our lineage . 
are not the best for young gentlewomen . 
, it is not meet for young gentlewomen to go away with young gentlemen , though fifty times their guardians . 
But if you will only come with me , and explain your tale to my grandfather , he will listen to you quietly , and take no advantage of you . 
I thank you much , kind Mistress Lorna , to lead the goose into the fox's den ! But , setting by all thought of danger , I have other reasons against it . 
Now , come with your faithful guardian , child . 
I will pledge my honour against all harm , and to bear you safe to London . 
By the law of the realm , I am now entitled to the custody of your fair person , and of all your chattels . 
But , sir , all that you have learned of law , is how to live without it . 
Fairly met , fair cousin mine ! Your wit will do me credit , after a little sharpening . 
And there is none to do that better than your aunt , my mother . 
Although she knows not of my coming , she is longing to receive you . 
Come , and in a few months' time you shall set the mode at Court , instead of pining here , and weaving coronals of daisies . 
'I turned aside , and thought a little . 
that Doone Glen was no place for me or any proud young maiden . 
'This minded me of my grandfather , and all the care I owed him . 
Moreover , now the storm was rising and I began to grow afraid for of all things awful to me thunder is the dreadfulest . 
I listened now for the distant rolling of the great black storm , and heard it , and was hurried by it . 
I should have thought these Exmoor hills too small to gather thunder . 
I cannot go , I will not go with you , Lord Alan Brandir , I answered , being vexed a little by those words of his . 
You are not grave enough for me , you are not old enough for me . 
My Aunt Sabina would not have wished it nor would I leave my grandfather , without his full permission . 
I would my mother had been here , soon would she have persuaded you . 
Down the cliffs I came , and up them I must make way back again . 
Now adieu , fair Cousin Lorna , I see you are in haste tonight but I am right proud of my guardianship . 
That thou never shalt , sir , cried a voice as loud as a culverin and Carver Doone had Alan Brandir as a spider hath a fly . 
Very bravely he strove and struggled , to free one arm and grasp his sword but as well might an infant buried alive attempt to lift his gravestone . 
, he lifted the youth from his feet , and bore him away into the darkness . 
I am older now older by ten years , in thought , although it is not a twelvemonth since . 
If that black deed were done again , I could follow , and could combat it , could throw weak arms on the murderer , and strive to be murdered also . 
I am now at home with violence and no dark death surprises me . 
'But , being as I was that night , the horror overcame me . 
The crash of thunder overhead , the last despairing look , the death piece framed with blaze of lightning my young heart was so affrighted that I could not gasp . 
My breath went from me , and I knew not where I was , or who , or what . 
Only that I lay , and cowered , under great trees full of thunder and could neither count , nor moan , nor have my feet to help me . 
No unmanly shriek came with it , neither cry for mercy . 
Carver Doone knows what it was and so did Alan Brandir . 
Here Lorna Doone could tell no more , being overcome with weeping . 
I could not press her any more with questions , or for clearness although I longed very much to know whether she had spoken of it to her grandfather or the Counsellor . 
, this , I say , so brought her round , that all her fear was now for me , and how to get me safely off , without mischance to any one . 
CHAPTER XXII After hearing that tale from Lorna , I went home in sorry spirits , having added fear for her , and misery about , to all my other ailments . 
for Lorna , without any invitation and we farmers love not trespass . 
Still , if I had seen the thing , I must have tried to save him . 
Thinking of which , I used to double my great fist , without knowing it , and keep it in my pocket ready . 
And this , being brought to practice , meant that I was not to show myself within the precincts of Glen Doone , for at least another month . 
anything should happen to increase her present trouble and every day's uneasiness . 
conspicuous from the height where I stood with Uncle Reuben . 
And it needs must happen also that there should be none to give it to him but my sister Annie . 
I more than suspect that he had heard some report of our Annie's comeliness , and had a mind to satisfy himself upon the subject . 
, he let his fingers dwell on Annie's , by some sort of accident , while he lifted his beaver gallantly , and gazed on her face in the light from the west . 
or in the mere fall of the twilight . 
Marwood de Whichehalse was not so alarmed but what he saw a fine opportunity . 
, whether in breathing his comfort to her he tried to take some from her pure lips . 
I hope he did not , because that to me would seem not the deed of a gentleman , and he was of good old family . 
I entered the house with some wrath upon me at seeing the gazehounds in the yard for it seems a cruel thing to me to harass the birds in the breeding time . 
He would have had my fist , I doubt , but for having been at school with me and after that it is like enough he would never have spoken another word . 
However , I would not allow it , because I hate sudden changes . 
Also he begged permission to come and see me , as an old schoolfellow , and set everything straight between us , as should be among honest Blundellites . 
Only one thing I resolved upon , that come when he would he should not see Annie . 
And to do my sister justice , she had no desire to see him . 
So young Squire Marwood came again , as though I had never smitten him , and spoke of it in as light a way as if we were still at school together . 
It was not in my nature , of course , to keep any anger against him and I knew what a condescension it was for him to visit us . 
Meanwhile the work of the farm was toward , and every day gave us more ado to dispose of what itself was doing . 
Many a spring have I seen since then , but never yet two springs alike , and never one so beautiful . 
There the lambs came bleating to her , and the orchis lifted up , and the thin dead leaves of clover lay for the new ones to spring through . 
There the stiffest things that sleep , the stubby oak , and the saplin'd beech , dropped their brown defiance to her , and prepared for a soft reply . 
But all this made it much harder for us , plying the hoe and rake , to keep the fields with room upon them for the corn to tiller . 
The winter wheat was well enough , being sturdy and strong sided but the spring wheat and the barley and the oats were overrun by ill weeds growing faster . 
And this went so far at last that I was forced to take two of them and knock their heads together after which they worked with a better will . 
Not that we kept any fire now , after the crock was emptied but that we loved to see the ashes cooling , and to be together . 
But strange to say my mother dreamed not , even for an instant , that it was possible for Annie to be thinking of such a thing . 
felt no certainty about this , and even had another opinion , as was said before . 
, and having won the esteem of all whose purses were in his power . 
All the beauty of the spring went for happy men to think of all the increase of the year was for other eyes to mark . 
Not a sign of any sunrise for me from my fount of life , not a breath to stir the dead leaves fallen on my heart's Spring . 
But my conscience told me that Betty Muxworthy had some reason upon her side . 
Do 'un good to starve a bit and takk zome on's wackedness out ov un . 
what he meant by not mending the swing hurdle where the Lynn stream flows from our land into his , and which he is bound to maintain . 
But he looked at me in a superior manner , and said , 'Business , young man , in business time . 
I had other reason for being vexed with Farmer Nicholas just now , viz . 
Mother used to answer 'Oh fie , Mistress Fry ! be good enough to mind your own business . 
to say a word in private to him , before he entered his own house . 
'Wi' all the plaisure in laife , my zon , he answered very graciously , thinking perhaps that I was prepared to speak concerning Sally . 
'Vaxed wi' thee ! Noo , noo , my lad . 
I 'ave a knowed thee too long for that . 
And thy veyther were my best friend , afore thee . 
Never wronged his neighbours , never spak an unkind word , never had no maneness in him . 
Tuk a vancy to a nice young 'ooman , and never kep her in doubt about it , though there wadn't mooch to zettle on her . 
Spak his maind laike a man , he did , and right happy he were wi' her . 
Ah , well a day ! Ah , God knoweth best . 
I never shall zee his laike again . 
And he were the best judge of a dung heap anywhere in this county . 
'Well , Master Snowe , I answered him , 'it is very handsome of you to say so . 
And now I am going to be like my father , I am going to speak my mind . 
'Raight there , lad raight enough , I reckon . 
Us has had enough of pralimbinary . 
'Then what I want to say is this I won't have any one courting my mother . 
And you know best who comes doing it . 
'Wull , wull ! What will boys be up to next ? Zhud a' thought herzelf wor the proper judge . 
No thank 'ee , lad , no need of thy light . 
Know the wai to my own door , at laste and have a raight to goo there . 
And he shut me out without so much as offering me a drink of cider . 
So I crossed the court yard to speak with him . 
'Service of the King ! he saith 'service of our lord the King ! Come hither , thou great yokel , at risk of fine and imprisonment . 
'Plover Barrows farm ! said he 'God only knows how tired I be . 
Now tell me that , and I fain would thwack thee if thou wert not thrice my size . 
'Sir , I replied , 'you shall not have the trouble . 
This is Plover's Barrows farm , and you are kindly welcome . 
Sheep's kidneys is for supper , and the ale got bright from the tapping . 
But why do you think ill of us ? We like not to be cursed so . 
'Nay , I think no ill , he said 'sheep's kidneys is good , uncommon good , if they do them without burning . 
But I be so galled in the saddle ten days , and never a comely meal of it . 
And when they hear King's service cried , they give me the worst of everything . 
He could go three miles to my one though he never changed his horse . 
He might have robbed me at any minute , if I had been worth the trouble . 
A red mare he rideth , strong in the loins , and pointed quite small in the head . 
I shall live to see him hanged yet . 
All this time he was riding across the straw of our courtyard , getting his weary legs out of the leathers , and almost afraid to stand yet . 
A coarse grained , hard faced man he was , some forty years of age or so , and of middle height and stature . 
He was dressed in a dark brown riding suit , none the better for Exmoor mud , but fitting him very differently from the fashion of our tailors . 
Across the holsters lay his cloak , made of some red skin , and shining from the sweating of the horse . 
for a mere ignoramus and country bumpkin . 
There is a gentleman come to sup , Annie . 
And fetch the hops out of the tap with a skewer that it may run more sparkling . 
You are the right sort , and no error therein . 
All this shall go in your favour greatly , when I make deposition . 
At least , I mean , if it be as good in the eating as in the hearing . 
'Tis a supper quite fit for Tom Faggus himself , the man who hath stolen my victuals so . 
I have heard that the flavour is marvellous . 
Some of them came and scared me so , in the fog of the morning , that I hungered for them ever since . 
Ha , ha , I saw their haunches . 
But the young lady will not forget art sure she will not forget it ? 'You may trust her to forget nothing , sir , that may tempt a guest to his comfort . 
'In faith , then , I will leave my horse in your hands , and be off for it . 
Half the pleasure of the mouth is in the nose beforehand . 
But stay , almost I forgot my business , in the hurry which thy tongue hath spread through my lately despairing belly . 
God grant that he be not far away I must eat my saddle , if it be so . 
'Have no fear , good sir , I answered 'you have seen and touched John Ridd . 
I am he , and not one likely to go beneath a bushel . 
'It would take a large bushel to hold thee , John Ridd . 
It was tied across with cord , and fastened down in every corner with unsightly dabs of wax . 
Stare not at me so , thou fool thou art big enough to eat me read , read , read . 
'If you please , sir , what is your name ? I asked though why I asked him I know not , except from fear of witchcraft . 
'Jeremy Stickles is my name , lad , nothing more than a poor apparitor of the worshipful Court of King's Bench . 
And at this moment a starving one , and no supper for me unless thou wilt read . 
describing me ever so much better than I knew myself 'by these presents , greeting . 
Underneath was added in a different handwriting 'Charges will be borne . 
The matter is full urgent . 
The messenger watched me , while I read so much as I could read of it and he seemed well pleased with my surprise , because he had expected it . 
There was scarcely any sense left in me , only that the thing was come by power of Mother Melldrum , because I despised her warning , and had again sought Lorna . 
But the officer was grieved for me , and the danger to his supper . 
'My son , be not afraid , he said 'we are not going to skin thee . 
'We do our best , sir , without bargain , said I , 'to please our visitors . 
'It was useless to tell her she knew what it was , and so should all the parish know . 
And if he did that' here mother went off into a fit of crying and Annie minded her face , while Lizzie saw that her gown was in comely order . 
laid it clearly before my mother that the King on his throne was unhappy , until he had seen John Ridd . 
That the fame of John had gone so far , and his size , and all his virtues that verily by the God who made him , the King was overcome with it . 
'His Majesty shall have my John His Majesty is very good but only for a fortnight . 
I want no titles for him . 
Johnny is enough for me and Master John for the working men . 
Now though my mother was so willing that I should go to London , expecting great promotion and high glory for me , I myself was deeply gone into the pit of sorrow . 
snored loud enough to spare me some . 
For I felt myself to be , as it were , in a place of some importance in a situation of trust , I may say and bound not to depart from it . 
I were to violate his faith in me as a churchwarden's son , and falsely spread his words abroad ? Perhaps I was not wise in building such a wall of scruples . 
Nevertheless , all that was there , and weighed upon me heavily . 
was very uneasy about it . 
But Master Stickles assured her that the King's writ often had that effect , and the symptom was a good one . 
'In a few more years , replied the King's officer , contemplating me with much satisfaction ''twill be a cruelty to any horse to put thee on his back , John . 
'That will be as God pleases , sir , I answered him , rather sharply 'and the horse that suffers will not be thine . 
But I wish to know when we must start upon our long travel to London town . 
I perceive that the matter is of great despatch and urgency . 
'To be sure , so it is , my son . 
But I see a yearling turkey there , him I mean with the hop in his walk , who would roast well to morrow . 
Thy mother must have preparation it is no more than reasonable . 
There be too many for the sow , and one of them needeth roasting . 
And now I think on it , Friday is not a day upon which pious people love to commence an enterprise . 
I will choose the young pig to morrow at noon , at which time they are wont to gambol and we will celebrate his birthday by carving him on Friday . 
After that we will gird our loins , and set forth early on Saturday . 
Now this was little better to me than if we had set forth at once . 
Sunday being the very first day upon which it would be honourable for me to enter Glen Doone . 
And nothing else but love of us and of our hospitality would have so persuaded him to remain with us till then . 
Therefore now my only chance of seeing Lorna , before I went , lay in watching from the cliff and espying her , or a signal from her . 
This , however , I did in vain , until my eyes were weary and often would delude themselves with hope of what they ached for . 
CHAPTER XXIV A SAFE PASS FOR KING'S MESSENGER A journey to London seemed to us in those bygone days as hazardous and dark an adventure as could be forced on any man . 
But nowadays it is very different . 
has turned our ancient ideas of distance almost upside down and I doubt whether God be pleased with our flying so fast away from Him . 
And now I felt most bitterly how the very arrangements which seemed so wise , and indeed ingenious , may by the force of events become our most fatal obstacles . 
For lo ! I was blocked entirely from going to see Lorna whereas we should have fixed it so that I as well might have the power of signalling my necessity . 
And indeed , more hearts than mine were heavy for when it came to the tug of parting , my mother was like , and so was Annie , to break down altogether . 
But bless your heart , I could no more have done so than flown all the way to London if Jeremy Stickles had not been there . 
at the strange things Master Stickles told me , and his strange way of telling them . 
And so we became very excellent friends , for he was much pleased with my laughing . 
Not wishing to thrust myself more forward than need be in this narrative , I have scarcely thought it becoming or right to speak of my own adornments . 
And for three days they had worked their best , without stint of beer or cider , according to the constitution of each . 
The result , so they all declared , was such as to create admiration , and defy competition in London . 
And to me it seemed that they were quite right though Jeremy Stickles turned up his nose , and feigned to be deaf in the business . 
Now be that matter as you please for the point is not worth arguing certain it is that my appearance was better than it had been before . 
up to the quality of them . 
Not only for the fear of soiling them , but that they enlarge a man's perception of his value . 
And it strikes me that our sins arise , partly from disdain of others , but mainly from contempt of self , both working the despite of God . 
But men of mind may not be measured by such paltry rule as this . 
By dinner time we arrived at Porlock , and dined with my old friend , Master Pooke , now growing rich and portly . 
For though we had plenty of victuals with us we were not to begin upon them , until all chance of victualling among our friends was left behind . 
Thence we hired to Bridgwater and from Bridgwater on to Bristowe , breaking the journey between the two . 
However , one thing , in common justice to a person who has been traduced , I am bound to mention . 
, had procured from Master Faggus . 
'I will keep this close , my son Jack , he said , having stripped it off with a carving knife 'your flag is the best to fly . 
The man who starved me on the way down , the same shall feed me fat going home . 
, and to induce him , for the general good , to return to his proper ministry . 
'God save you , gentlemen , he cried , lifting his hat politely 'many and many a happy day I have worked this road with him . 
Such times will never be again . 
But commend me to his love and prayers . 
King my name is , and King my nature . 
Say that , and none will harm you . 
And so he made off down the hill , being a perfect gentleman , and a very good horse he was riding . 
I for my part was nothing loth , and preferred to see London by daylight . 
And after all , it was not worth seeing , but a very hideous and dirty place , not at all like Exmoor . 
Some of the shops were very fine , and the signs above them finer still , so that I was never weary of standing still to look at them . 
They were welcome to the wall for me , as I took care to tell them , for I could stand without the wall , which perhaps was more than they could do . 
This caused some little disturbance but none of the rest saw fit to try how the matter might be with them . 
, was quite resolved to be supreme in the appointment of the chief officers of the corporation . 
this right lay entirely with themselves upon which a writ was issued against them for forfeiture of their charter and the question was now being tried in the court of His Majesty's bench . 
was put off from time to time , while the Court and the City contended . 
Hence the courtiers and the citizens scarce could meet in the streets with patience , or without railing and frequent blows . 
And yet he always considered himself to be a good , sound Royalist . 
, things came to a dreadful pass between the King and all the people who dared to have an opinion . 
Scarcely was this judgment forth , and all men hotly talking of it , when a far worse thing befell . 
by the hundreds of people around me . 
Such a commotion was astir , such universal sense of wrong , and stern resolve to right it , that each man grasped his fellow's hand , and led him into the vintner's . 
not to be drunk at intervals without coarse discourtesy . 
is neither here nor there . 
that Lord Russell should be tried neither at Westminster nor at Lincoln's Inn , but at the Court of Old Bailey , within the precincts of the city . 
has specially mentioned , when not expected , among the many ills of life . 
, and the milk must have come from cows driven to water . 
And the purport of it was , that on pain of a heavy fine or escheatment , I would hold myself ready and present , to give evidence when called upon . 
Many people hurried past me , chiefly of the more tender sort , revolting at the butchery . 
In Westminster Hall I found nobody not even the crowd of crawling varlets , who used to be craving evermore for employment or for payment . 
And at last an old man told me that all the lawyers were gone to see the result of their own works , in the fields of Lincoln's Inn . 
I followed him very gladly , being confident that he came to me with a message from the Justiciaries . 
'Enough , John quite enough , he cried , 'I can read it in thy countenance . 
Honesty is written there , and courage and simplicity . 
But I fear that , in this town of London , thou art apt to be taken in by people of no principle . 
Ah me ! Ah me ! The world is bad , and I am too old to improve it . 
I felt myself bound to walk up and down , being under a thing called 'recognisance . 
, and that I was out of money . 
Nothing short of a Royal Commission could be warranty for it . 
This is not only illegal , sir , but most gravely unconstitutional . 
'I had not told you , worthy sir , I answered him , in a lower tone , 'if I could have thought that your sense of right would be moved so painfully . 
But now I must beg to leave you , sir for I see that the door again is open . 
'To accept , kind sir , my very best thanks , and most respectful remembrances . 
And with that , I laid my hand in his . 
will do our best to make you comfortable with our poor hospitality . 
With this I was hasting away from him , but he held my hand and looked round at me . 
And he spoke without cordiality . 
'Young man , a general invitation is no entry for my fee book . 
I have spent a good hour of business time in mastering thy case , and stating my opinion of it . 
And being a member of the bar , called six and thirty years agone by the honourable society of the Inner Temple , my fee is at my own discretion albeit an honorarium . 
Now I will enter it two , my son , and half a crown for my clerk's fee . 
he had entered on a page of it , 'To consideration of ease as stated by John Ridd , and advising thereupon , two guineas . 
I never thought of it in that way . 
'A lawyer like thee , young curmudgeon ! A lawyer afford to feel compassion gratis ! Either thou art a very deep knave , or the greenest of all greenhorns . 
Well , I suppose , I must let thee off for one guinea , and the clerk's fee . 
But when he used harsh language so , knowing that I did not deserve it , I began to doubt within myself whether he deserved my money . 
Therefore I answered him with some readiness , such as comes sometimes to me , although I am so slow . 
'Sir , I am no curmudgeon if a young man had called me so , it would not have been well with him . 
This money shall be paid , if due , albeit I had no desire to incur the debt . 
You have advised me that the Court is liable for my expenses , so far as they be reasonable . 
five , for the counsel you have given me to deny his jurisdiction . 
With these words , I took his arm to lead him , for the door was open still . 
'In the name of God , boy , let me go . 
Worthy sir , pray let me go . 
My wife is sick , and my daughter dying in the name of God , sir , let me go . 
'Nay , nay , I said , having fast hold of him , 'I cannot let thee go unpaid , sir . 
Right is right and thou shalt have it . 
'Ruin is what I shall have , boy , if you drag me before that devil . 
He will strike me from the bar at once , and starve me , and all my family . 
Here , lad , good lad , take these two guineas . 
Thou hast despoiled the spoiler . 
Never again will I trust mine eyes for knowledge of a greenhorn . 
'Learned sir , I answered him , 'twice you spoke , unless I err , of the necessity of a clerk's fee , as a thing to be lamented . 
'To be sure , to be sure , my son . 
You have a clerk as much as I have . 
Now I pray thee , take to the study of the law . 
Possession is nine points of it , which thou hast of me . 
Self possession is the tenth , and that thou hast more than the other nine . 
, and he was out of sight in a second of time , wig , blue bag , and family . 
came out , and wanted to know who I was . 
he frowned at me very heavily , as if I had done him an injury . 
'Then , John , thou shalt be . 
But mind one thing , not a word of thy long detention , or thou mayst get into trouble . 
'Now , if my Lord cross question you , the gentleman whispered to me , 'answer him straight out truth at once , for he will have it out of thee . 
And mind , he loves not to be contradicted , neither can he bear a hang dog look . 
Take little heed of the other two but note every word of the middle one and never make him speak twice . 
I thanked him for his good advice , as he moved the curtain and thrust me in , but instead of entering withdrew , and left me to bear the brunt of it . 
The chamber was not very large , though lofty to my eyes , and dark , with wooden panels round it . 
At the further end were some raised seats , such as I have seen in churches , lined with velvet , and having broad elbows , and a canopy over the middle seat . 
Each man had an oak desk before him , set at a little distance , and spread with pens and papers . 
By reason of their great perukes it was hard to tell how old they were but the one who was speaking seemed the youngest , although he was the chief of them . 
There is no fear of losing thee , John , any more than the Tower of London . 
I grieve for His Majesty's exchequer , after keeping thee two months or more . 
'Nay , my lord , I crave your pardon . 
My mother hath been keeping me . 
Not a groat have I received . 
'I will overlook thy head , foul Spank , on a spike from Temple Bar , if ever I hear of the like again . 
Vile varlet , what art thou paid for ? Thou hast swindled the money thyself , foul Spank I know thee , though thou art new to me . 
Bitter is the day for thee that ever I came across thee . 
Answer me not one word more and I will have thee on a hurdle . 
And he swung himself to and fro on his bench , with both hands on his knees and every man waited to let it pass , knowing better than to speak to him . 
Now be off boy thy name is Ridd , and we are well rid of thee . 
I was only too glad to go , after all this tempest as you may well suppose . 
'Good Master Ridd , take it all , take it all , and say a good word for me to his lordship . 
He hath taken a strange fancy to thee and thou must make the most of it . 
We never saw man meet him eye to eye so , and yet not contradict him , and that is just what he loveth . 
Abide in London , Master Ridd , and he will make thy fortune . 
His joke upon thy name proves that . 
And I pray you remember , Master Ridd , that the Spanks are sixteen in family . 
how much it had stood me in board and lodging , since Master Stickles had rendered me up for until that time he had borne my expenses . 
'If that is thy way of using opportunity , said Spank , looking at me with some contempt , 'thou wilt never thrive in these times , my lad . 
Even the Lord Chief Justice can be little help to thee unless thou knowest better than that how to help thyself It mattered not to me . 
The word 'approver' stuck in my gorge , as used by the Lord Chief Justice for we looked upon an approver as a very low thing indeed . 
I would rather pay for every breakfast , and even every dinner , eaten by me since here I came , than take money as an approver . 
And indeed I was much disappointed at being taken in that light , having understood that I was sent for as a trusty subject , and humble friend of His Majesty . 
In the morning I met Mr. Spank waiting for me at the entrance , and very desirous to see me . 
He hath been promised the handling of poor Master Algernon Sidney , and he says he will soon make republic of him for his state shall shortly be headless . 
He is chuckling over his joke , like a pig with a nut and that always makes him pleasant . 
John Ridd , my lord ! With that he swung up the curtain bravely , and according to special orders , I stood , face to face , and alone with Judge Jeffreys . 
Meanwhile I stood waiting to make my bow afraid to begin upon him , and wondering at his great bull head . 
'May it please your worship , I said , 'here I am according to order , awaiting your good pleasure . 
'Thou art made to weight , John , more than order . 
How much dost thou tip the scales to ? 'Only twelvescore pounds , my lord , when I be in wrestling trim . 
And sure I must have lost weight here , fretting so long in London . 
'Ha , ha ! Much fret is there in thee ! Hath His Majesty seen thee ? 'Yes , my lord , twice or even thrice and he made some jest concerning me . 
'A very bad one , I doubt not . 
His humour is not so dainty as mine , but apt to be coarse and unmannerly . 
Now John , or Jack , by the look of thee , thou art more used to be called . 
'Yes , your worship , when I am with old Molly and Betty Muxworthy . 
'Peace , thou forward varlet ! There is a deal too much of thee . 
We shall have to try short commons with thee , and thou art a very long common . 
Ha , ha ! Where is that rogue Spank ? Spank must hear that by and by . 
It is beyond thy great thick head , Jack . 
'Not so , my lord I have been at school , and had very bad jokes made upon me . 
'Ha , ha ! It hath hit thee hard . 
And faith , it would be hard to miss thee , even with harpoon . 
And thou lookest like to blubber , now . 
Capital , in faith ! I have thee on every side , Jack , and thy sides are manifold many folded at any rate . 
Thou shalt have double expenses , Jack , for the wit thou hast provoked in me . 
'Heavy goods lack heavy payment , is a proverb down our way , my lord . 
'Ah , I hurt thee , I hurt thee , Jack . 
The harpoon hath no tickle for thee . 
Now , Jack Whale , having hauled thee hard , we will proceed to examine thee . 
'I am ready to answer , my lord , I replied , 'if he asks me nought beyond my knowledge , or beyond my honour . 
'Hadst better answer me everything , lump . 
At least , I believe some of them be robbers , and all of them are outlaws . 
They are of good birth , and reckless and their place is very strong . 
'Good birth ! What was Lord Russell of , Lord Essex , and this Sidney ? 'Tis the surest heirship to the block to be the chip of a good one . 
What is the name of this pestilent race , and how many of them are there ? 'They are the Doones of Bagworthy forest , may it please your worship . 
And we reckon there be about forty of them , beside the women and children . 
Before the great war broke out they came , longer back than I can remember . 
'Ay , long before thou wast born , John . 
Good , thou speakest plainly . 
Woe betide a liar , whenso I get hold of him . 
Ye want me on the Western Circuit by God , and ye shall have me , when London traitors are spun and swung . 
And in truth I was much astonished . 
'Yes , my lord , there is . 
At least , not so very far from us . 
Baron de Whichehalse , of Ley Manor . 
'Baron , ha ! of the Exchequer eh , lad ? And taketh dues instead of His Majesty . 
Somewhat which halts there ought to come a little further , I trow . 
It shall be seen to , as well as the witch which makes it so to halt . 
Riotous knaves in West England , drunken outlaws , you shall dance , if ever I play pipe for you . 
John Ridd , I will come to Oare parish , and rout out the Oare of Babylon . 
'Although your worship is so learned , I answered seeing that now he was beginning to make things uneasy 'your worship , though being Chief Justice , does little justice to us . 
The idea was so new to me that it set my wits all wandering and looking into me , he saw that I was groping for the truth . 
'John Ridd , thine eyes are enough for me . 
I see thou hast never dreamed of it . 
Now hast thou ever seen a man whose name is Thomas Faggus ? 'Yes , sir , many and many a time . 
He is my own worthy cousin and I fear he that hath intentions' here I stopped , having no right there to speak about our Annie . 
Nevertheless , we must tax his costs , as of any other solicitor . 
'To be sure , to be sure , my lord ! was all that I could say , not understanding what all this meant . 
'I fear he will come to the gallows , said the Lord Chief Justice , sinking his voice below the echoes 'tell him this from me , Jack . 
He shall never be condemned before me but I cannot be everywhere , and some of our Justices may keep short memory of his dinners . 
Tell him to change his name , turn parson , or do something else , to make it wrong to hang him . 
Parson is the best thing , he hath such command of features , and he might take his tithes on horseback . 
Now a few more things , John Ridd and for the present I have done with thee . 
All my heart leaped up at this , to get away from London so and yet I could hardly trust to it . 
'Is there any sound round your way of disaffection to His Majesty , His most gracious Majesty ? 'No , my lord no sign whatever . 
We pray for him in church perhaps , and we talk about him afterwards , hoping it may do him good , as it is intended . 
But after that we have naught to say , not knowing much about him at least till I get home again . 
'That is as it should be , John . 
And the less you say the better . 
I see that you know naught of them . 
Nevertheless , it will not be long before all England hears of them . 
Now , John , I have taken a liking to thee , for never man told me the truth , without fear or favour , more thoroughly and truly than thou hast done . 
Keep thou clear of this , my son . 
It will come to nothing yet many shall swing high for it . 
Even I could not save thee , John Ridd , if thou wert mixed in this affair . 
Keep from the Doones , keep from De Whichehalse , keep from everything which leads beyond the sight of thy knowledge . 
I meant to use thee as my tool but I see thou art too honest and simple . 
I will send a sharper down but never let me find thee , John , either a tool for the other side , or a tube for my words to pass through . 
I shall remember thee and I trow , thou wilt'st not for many a day forget me . 
Not men , nor women neither , are better than they need be . 
Therefore I made a low bow , and went in doubt as to which had the right of it . 
He who will not when he may , when he will , he shall have nay . 
From this I concluded that I had lost favour in the sight of Chief Justice Jeffreys . 
Perhaps because my evidence had not proved of any value ! perhaps because he meant to let the matter lie , till cast on him . 
Anyhow , it was a reason of much grief , and some anger to me , and very great anxiety , disappointment , and suspense . 
I took him back to my little room mine at least till to morrow morning and told him all my story , and how much I felt aggrieved by it . 
But he surprised me very much , by showing no surprise at all . 
'It is the way of the world , Jack . 
Nay , we do not victual him upon the day of killing which they have done to thee . 
Thou art a lucky man , John thou hast gotten one day's wages , or at any rate half a day , after thy work was rendered . 
God have mercy on me , John ! The things I see are manifold and so is my regard of them . 
And if it comes to that , no man has any right to be called a 'liar' for smoothing over things unwitting , through duty to his neighbour . 
Ten I would have made it , John , but for bad luck lately . 
Put back your bits of paper , lad I will have no acknowledgment . 
It was not the five pounds that moved me , but the way of giving it and after so much bitter talk , the great trust in my goodness . 
CHAPTER XXVII HOME AGAIN AT LAST It was the beginning of wheat harvest , when I came to Dunster town , having walked all the way from London , and being somewhat footsore . 
But of this he took no heed , because I only nodded at him and he could not make it out . 
For it takes an old man , or at least a middle aged one , to nod and wink , with any power on the brains of other men . 
For being much distraught in mind , and desperate in body , I had made all the way from London to Dunster in six days , and no more . 
The tanner had some excellent daughters , I forget how many very pretty damsels , and well set up , and able to make good pastry . 
And even so , I had not to climb them , at least by my own labour . 
Accordingly he sent me forth on the very strongest nag he had , and the maidens came to wish me God speed , and kissed their hands at the doorway . 
, I do assure you my spirit leaped , and all my sight came to my eyes . 
And when I was passed he set off at full gallop , to call the rest of the J. R. 's together , and tell them young master was come home at last . 
I touched my horse with no spur nor whip , feeling that my slow wits would go , if the sights came too fast over them . 
Here was the pool where we washed the sheep , and there was the hollow that oozed away , where I had shot three wild ducks . 
And there I saw but let me go Annie was too much for me . 
She nearly pulled me off my horse , and kissed the very mouth of the carbine . 
I knew you would come . 
Now I may cry as much as I like , and you need not try to stop me , John , because I am so happy . 
But you mustn't cry yourself , John what will mother think of you ? She will be so jealous of me . 
However , dear mother was ashamed of that afterwards , and asked Mrs. Fry's humble pardon and perhaps I ought not to have mentioned it . 
he flung up his hind feet and galloped straight home , and set every dog wild with barking . 
And even of those who have done so , not one in a hundred can have such a home as I had to come home to . 
And then she kissed me , almost like Annie , and vowed that she thought very little of captains . 
And happier people could not be found than the whole of us were that evening . 
Some of them cried that the King must be mazed , not to keep me for his protection , in these violent times of Popery . 
, or smarter , or a whit more fashionable , for all the great company I had seen , and all the wondrous things wasted upon me . 
But though I may have been none the wiser by reason of my stay in London , at any rate I was much the better in virtue of coming home again . 
, for their indulgence to us . 
, yet all alike with toss of horns , and spread of udders ready . 
From them without a word , we turn to the farm yard proper , seen on the right , and dryly strawed from the petty rush of the pitch paved runnel . 
But while the cock is crowing still , and the pullet world admiring him , who comes up but the old turkey cock , with all his family round him . 
I knew that my first day's task on the farm would be strictly watched by every one , even by my gentle mother , to see what I had learned in London . 
Often and often , I had longed to do this , and have done with it . 
But the thought of my father's terrible death , at the hands of the Doones , prevented me . 
And it seemed to me foolish and mean to grieve mother , without any chance of my suit ever speeding . 
, and I might have been fitted up with a sweetheart , in spite of my west country twang , and the smallness of my purse if only I had said the word . 
, fitted into one to day , sitting bravely on the breast plucked out on the morrow morn , and the place that knew it , gone . 
Now , what did I do but take my chance reckless whether any one heeded me or not , only craving Lorna's heed , and time for ten words to her . 
And first I went , I know not why , to the crest of the broken highland , whence I had agreed to watch for any mark or signal . 
that the white stone had been covered over with a cloth or mantle , the sign that something had arisen to make Lorna want me . 
Many birds came twittering round me in the gold of August many trees showed twinkling beauty , as the sun went lower and the lines of water fell , from wrinkles into dimples . 
This makes a man grow thoughtful unless , as some low fellows do , he believe all women hypocrites . 
Therefore I went slowly towards her , taken back in my impulse and said all I could come to say , with some distress in doing it . 
'Mistress Lorna , I had hope that you were in need of me . 
'Oh , yes but that was long ago two months ago , or more , sir . 
And saying this she looked away , as if it all were over . 
And I tried to turn away , without another word , and go . 
Then she held out both hands to me and I took and looked at them . 
'Master Ridd , I did not mean , she whispered , very softly , 'I did not mean to vex you . 
'Come away from this bright place , she answered , trembling in her turn 'I am watched and spied of late . 
Come beneath the shadows , John . 
, only to hear her call me 'John' though Apollyon were lurking there , and Despair should lock me in . 
She stole across the silent grass but I strode hotly after her fear was all beyond me now , except the fear of losing her . 
I could not but behold her manner , as she went before me , all her grace , and lovely sweetness , and her sense of what she was . 
All that in my presence dwelt , all that in my heart was felt , was the maiden moving gently , and afraid to look at me . 
I left her quite alone though close , though tingling to have hold of her . 
Even her right hand was dropped and lay among the mosses . 
Neither did I try to steal one glimpse below her eyelids . 
Life and death to me were hanging on the first glance I should win yet I let it be so . 
Any look with so much in it never met my gaze before . 
'Darling , do you love me ? was all that I could say to her . 
'Yes , I like you very much , she answered , with her eyes gone from me , and her dark hair falling over , so as not to show me things . 
'But do you love me , Lorna , Lorna do you love me more than all the world ? 'No , to be sure not . 
Now why should I ? 'In truth , I know not why you should . 
Only I hoped that you did , Lorna . 
Either love me not at all , or as I love you for ever . 
'John I love you very much and I would not grieve you . 
'That will not do for me , Lorna . 
Not almost every day I think , but every instant of my life , of you . 
'But you have not married Carver yet ? Say quick ! Why keep me waiting so ? 'Of course I have not , Master Ridd . 
'Did they want you to marry Carver ? Tell me all the truth of it . 
'Not yet , not yet . 
They are not half so impetuous as you are , John . 
It seems that something frightened them . 
Here Lorna blushed so that I was frightened , and began to hate this Charlie more , a great deal more , than even Carver Doone . 
'He had better not , said I 'I will fling him over it , if he dare . 
He shall see thee through the roof , Lorna , if at all he see thee . 
'Master Ridd , you are worse than Carver ! I thought you were so kind hearted . 
that I would wed my eldest cousin , this same Carver Doone , who is twice as old as I am , being thirty five and upwards . 
That was why I gave the token that I wished to see you , Master Ridd . 
And now I am watched , and spied , and followed , and half my little liberty seems to be taken from me . 
I could not be here speaking with you , even in my own nook and refuge , but for the aid , and skill , and courage of dear little Gwenny Carfax . 
She is now my chief reliance , and through her alone I hope to baffle all my enemies , since others have forsaken me . 
, she let the gentle tears flow fast , and came and sat so close beside me , that I trembled like a folded sheep at the bleating of her lamb . 
My wonder seemed to please her much , herself so well accustomed to it , and not fond of watching it . 
No wonder you can catch the fish , as when first I saw you . 
As for hopeless angling , John that all others shall have until I tell you otherwise . 
'John , I dare not take it now else I should be cheating you . 
I will try to love you dearly , even as you deserve and wish . 
Keep it for me just till then . 
Something tells me I shall earn it in a very little time . 
Perhaps you will be sorry then , sorry when it is all too late , to be loved by such as I am . 
'You are not rude and unlettered , John . 
, can compare with you in this . 
'Then I shall never vex you , John . 
Never , I mean , by saying that . 
However , I was dashed with that , and pretended not to mean it only to pluck some lady fern , whose elegance did me no good . 
'Now , John , said Lorna , being so quick that not even a lover could cheat her , and observing my confusion more intently than she need have done . 
'Master John Ridd , it is high time for you to go home to your mother . 
I love your mother very much from what you have told me about her , and I will not have her cheated . 
'If you truly love my mother , said I , very craftily 'the only way to show it is by truly loving me . 
For she was safe I knew that daily by a mode of signals well contrived between us now , on the strength of our experience . 
Therefore do not squeeze my hand , John I am safe without it , and you do not know your strength . 
Ah , I knew my strength right well . 
The love of all things was upon me , and a softness to them all , and a sense of having something even such as they had . 
Then the golden harvest came , waving on the broad hill side , and nestling in the quiet nooks scooped from out the fringe of wood . 
A wealth of harvest such as never gladdened all our country side since my father ceased to reap , and his sickle hung to rust . 
There had not been a man on Exmoor fit to work that reaping hook since the time its owner fell , in the prime of life and strength , before a sterner reaper . 
But now I took it from the wall , where mother proudly stored it , while she watched me , hardly knowing whether she should smile or cry . 
After us , the maidens came , milkmaids and the rest of them , with Betty Muxworthy at their head , scolding even now , because they would not walk fitly . 
But they only laughed at her and she knew it was no good to scold , with all the men behind them . 
After the Snowes came Jasper Kebby , with his wife , new married and a very honest pair they were , upon only a hundred acres , and a right of common . 
And after these men and their wives came all the children toddling , picking flowers by the way , and chattering and asking questions , as the children will . 
There must have been threescore of us , take one with another , and the lane was full of people . 
All this time the rest were huddling outside the gate , and along the lane , not daring to interfere with parson , but whispering how well he did it . 
We , the men , kept marching onwards down the flank of the yellow wall , with knees bent wide , and left arm bowed and right arm flashing steel . 
Then all returned to the other end , with reaping hooks beneath our arms , and dogs left to mind jackets . 
Even now I could descry , like high waves in the distance , the rounded heads and folded shadows of the wood of Bagworthy . 
Perhaps she was walking in the valley , and softly gazing up at them . 
Oh , to be a bird just there ! I could see a bright mist hanging just above the Doone Glen . 
Perhaps it was shedding its drizzle upon her . 
Oh , to be a drop of rain ! The very breeze which bowed the harvest to my bosom gently , might have come direct from Lorna , with her sweet voice laden . 
So I let him come down , and I must confess that he had reason on his side . 
I was glad enough to accept the ladle full of fried batatas , and to make the best of things , which is generally done by letting men have their own way . 
Therefore I managed to dine with them , although it was so early . 
For according to all that I can find , in a long life and a varied one , twelve o'clock is the real time for a man to have his dinner . 
Then is the balance of east and west , and then the right and left side of a man are in due proportion , and contribute fairly with harmonious fluids . 
Whish , the wheat falls ! Whirl again ye have had good dinners give your master and mistress plenty to supply another year . 
And in truth we did reap well and fairly , through the whole of that afternoon , I not only keeping lead , but keeping the men up to it . 
Seeing this we wiped our sickles , and our breasts and foreheads , and soon were on the homeward road , looking forward to good supper . 
Of course all the reapers came at night to the harvest supper , and Parson Bowden to say the grace as well as to help to carve for us . 
And some help was needed there , I can well assure you for the reapers had brave appetites , and most of their wives having babies were forced to eat as a duty . 
All the while our darling Annie , with her sleeves tucked up , and her comely figure panting , was running about with a bucket of taties mashed with lard and cabbage . 
Even Lizzie had left her books , and was serving out beer and cider while mother helped plum pudding largely on pewter plates with the mutton . 
Then having eaten all they could , they prepared themselves , with one accord , for the business now of drinking . 
Some were in the middle of one verse , and some at the end of the next one yet somehow all managed to get together in the mighty roar of the burden . 
, although the parson was gone then , and the clerk not fit to compare with him in the matter of keeping time . 
And in truth , there was much excuse for them because it was a noble harvest , fit to thank the Lord for , without His thinking us hypocrites . 
, I knew by the sadness in her eyes that she was thinking just as I was . 
, and crossing the courtyard in the moonlight , I went , just to cool myself , as far as my father's tombstone . 
still entertained some evil will , and longing for a punishment . 
, to see our Annie sitting there as motionless as the tombstone , and with all her best fallals upon her , after stowing away the dishes . 
What are you doing here , Annie ? I inquired rather sternly , being vexed with her for having gone so very near to frighten me . 
Nothing at all , said our Annie shortly . 
And indeed it was truth enough for a woman . 
purely and perfectly true and transparent , except only my Lorna and even so , I might not have loved her , if she had been ugly . 
But she jumped up , and caught me by the hand , and threw herself upon my bosom , with her face all wet with tears . 
'Oh , John , I will tell you . 
Only don't be angry , John . 
'And so there are upon mine , John . 
Oh , John , I will tell you everything , if you will look at me kindly , and promise to forgive me . 
'Yes , I will stop , said Annie , panting 'you are very hard on me , John but I know you mean it for the best . 
Now this was so exactly what I had tried to do to Lorna , that my breath was almost taken away at Annie's so describing it . 
'From your knowledge of these things , Annie , you must have had them done to you . 
I demand to know this very moment who has taken such liberties . 
'Then , John , you shall never know , if you ask in that manner . 
'Alas , I feared it would come to this , I answered very sadly 'I know he has been here many a time , without showing himself to me . 
There is nothing meaner than for a man to sneak , and steal a young maid's heart , without her people knowing it . 
But Betty was as lively as ever , bustling about with every one , and looking out for the chance of groats , which the better off might be free with . 
And over the kneading pan next day , she dropped three and sixpence out of her pocket and Lizzie could not tell for her life how much more might have been in it . 
Moreover , it was only right that I should learn , for Lorna's sake , how far Annie , or any one else , had penetrated our secret . 
Poor Annie was gone back again to our father's grave , and there she sat upon the turf , sobbing very gently , and not wishing to trouble any one . 
Annie was very grateful to me , and kissed me many times , and begged my pardon ever so often for her rudeness to me . 
Upon this I brought her back again to Tom Faggus and his doings . 
I wish just to know the truth about you and Tom Faggus . 
'She is not half so pretty as Sally Snowe I will answer for that , said Annie . 
'She is ten thousand times as pretty as ten thousand Sally Snowes , I replied with great indignation . 
'Oh , but look at Sally's eyes ! cried my sister rapturously . 
'Look at Lorna Doone's , said I 'and you would never look again at Sally's . 
Ah , I shall remember it because it is so queer a name . 
But stop , I had better write it down . 
Lend me your hat , poor boy , to write on . 
As it is , I shall keep it for Master Faggus , and add interest for keeping . 
'Oh no , John oh no , John , she begged me earnestly , being sobered in a moment . 
'Your hand is so terribly heavy , John and he never would forgive you although he is so good hearted , he cannot put up with an insult . 
Promise me , dear John , that you will not strike him and I will promise you faithfully to keep your secret , even from mother , and even from Cousin Tom himself . 
'And from Lizzie most of all , from Lizzie , I answered very eagerly , knowing too well which of my relations would be hardest with me . 
'Of course from little Lizzie , said Annie , with some contempt 'a young thing like her cannot be kept too long , in my opinion , from the knowledge of such subjects . 
And besides , I should be very sorry if Lizzie had the right to know your secrets , as I have , dearest John . 
Not a soul shall be the wiser for your having trusted me , John although I shall be very wretched when you are late away at night , among those dreadful people . 
'Well , I replied , 'it is no use crying over spilt milk Annie . 
You have my secret , and I have yours and I scarcely know which of the two is likely to have the worst time of it , when it comes to mother's ears . 
I could put up with perpetual scolding but not with mother's sad silence . 
'That is exactly how I feel , John . 
and as Annie said it she brightened up , and her soft eyes shone upon me 'but now I shall be much happier , dear because I shall try to help you . 
No doubt the young lady deserves it , John . 
She is not after the farm , I hope ? 'She ! I exclaimed and that was enough , there was so much scorn in my voice and face . 
'And the things that walk upon it , she answered me with another kiss 'Sally has taken a wonderful fancy to our best cow , Nipple pins . 
I must kiss you for only thinking of it . 
Dear me , it seems as if you had known all about us for a twelvemonth . 
'She loves you , with all her heart , John . 
No doubt about that of course . 
And Annie looked up at me , as much as to say she would like to know who could help it . 
But I hope she will come to it by and by . 
'Of course she must , replied my sister , 'it will be impossible for her to help it . 
'Ah well ! I don't know , for I wanted more assurance of it . 
But you must not let her alone too long that is my advice to you . 
What a simpleton you must have been not to tell me long ago . 
I would have made Lorna wild about you , long before this time , Johnny . 
But now you go into the parlour , dear , while I do your collop . 
Faith Snowe is not come , but Polly and Sally . 
Sally has made up her mind to conquer you this very blessed evening , John . 
Only look what a thing of a scarf she has on I should be quite ashamed to wear it . 
But you won't strike poor Tom , will you ? 'Not I , my darling , for your sweet sake . 
And so dear Annie , having grown quite brave , gave me a little push into the parlour , where I was quite abashed to enter after all I had heard about Sally . 
My mother led me to Uncle Ben , and he took my hand without rising , muttering something not over polite , about my being bigger than ever . 
I asked him heartily how he was , and he said , 'Well enough , for that matter but none the better for the noise you great clods have been making . 
'I am sorry if we have disturbed you , sir , I answered very civilly 'but I knew not that you were here even and you must allow for harvest time . 
'So it seems , he replied 'and allow a great deal , including waste and drunkenness . 
this is my granddaughter , and my heiress' here he glanced at mother 'my heiress , little Ruth Huckaback . 
And if ever any one looked unlike the heiress to great property , it was the little girl before me . 
But Uncle Reuben burst out laughing and Ruth turned away with a deep rich colour . 
'Do you know how old she is , you numskull ? said Uncle Ben , in his dryest drawl 'she was seventeen last July , sir . 
'On the first of July , grandfather , Ruth whispered , with her back still to me 'but many people will not believe it . 
We have only been waiting for you , dear John , to have a little harvest dance , with the kitchen door thrown open . 
Lizzie will play us the virginal . 
Won't you , Lizzie dear ? 'But who is to dance with you , madam ? Uncle Ben asked , very politely . 
'I think you must rearrange your figure . 
I have not danced for a score of years and I will not dance now , while the mistress and the owner of the harvest sits aside neglected . 
'Nay , Master Huckaback , cried Sally Snowe , with a saucy toss of her hair 'Mistress Ridd is too kind a great deal , in handing you over to me . 
You take her and I will fetch Annie to be my partner this evening . 
I like dancing very much better with girls , for they never squeeze and rumple one . 
Now begin and I will join you . 
Although of course I knew that I deserved it all , but I could not well say that . 
Then Annie came sailing down the dance , with her beautiful hair flowing round her the lightest figure in all the room , and the sweetest , and the loveliest . 
She was blushing , with her fair cheeks red beneath her dear blue eyes , as she met my glance of surprise and grief at the partner she was leaning on . 
It was Squire Marwood de Whichehalse . 
I would sooner have seen her with Tom Faggus , as indeed I had expected , when I heard of Parson Bowden . 
No , but let us both enjoy ourselves . 
You are not dancing with Lorna , John . 
But you seem uncommonly happy . 
Moreover , after my dwelling in town , where I had felt like a horse on a lime kiln , I could not for a length of time have enough of country life . 
The mooing of a calf was music , and the chuckle of a fowl was wit , and the snore of the horses was news to me . 
'Wult have thee own wai , I reckon , said Betty , being cross with sleepiness , for she had washed up everything 'slape in hog pound , if thee laikes , Jan . 
I stood in the court , and wondered awhile at the glory of the harvest moon , and the yellow world it shone upon . 
and to keep watch there another night , back I returned to the tallatt ladder , and slept without leaving off till morning . 
and when we could not attend to him properly by reason of our occupation . 
Mother gazed hard upon Lizzie at this , having formed a very different opinion but Annie and myself agreed that it was worth looking into . 
by means of observing him in his cups , is a thing which even the lowest of people would regard with abhorrence . 
And he always wore his meanest clothes as if expecting to be robbed , or to disarm the temptation thereto and he never took his golden chronometer neither his bag of money . 
and they very craftily spurred me on , having less noble ideas perhaps , to hit upon Uncle Reuben's track , and follow , and see what became of him . 
For he never returned until dark or more , just in time to be in before us , who were coming home from the harvest . 
And then Dolly always seemed very weary , and stained with a muck from beyond our parish . 
, a guest moreover of our own , and a relative through my mother . 
'Once for all , I said , 'it is below me , and I won't do it . 
'Oh , very well , I answered , 'John knows what he is doing . 
For John Fry was a kind of foreman now , and it would not do to say anything that might lessen his authority . 
However , I made up my mind to rope him , when I should catch him by himself , without peril to his dignity . 
'Well done , John , my sister was saying , 'capitally done , John Fry . 
How very brave you have been , John . 
Now quick , let us hear the rest of it . 
John made no answer , but scratched his head , and looked at the maidens to take his part . 
But Annie caught hold of me by the arm , and little Ruth stood in the doorway and Lizzie said , 'Don't be a fool , John . 
We know things of you , you know a great deal more than you dream of . 
Now , John , sit down , and you shall know all that we have done , though I doubt whether you will approve of it . 
Upon this I kissed Annie , and so did Ruth and John Fry looked a deal more comfortable , but Lizzie only made a face at us . 
He never vouchsafed any explanation , neither gave any reason , true or false , which shows his entire ignorance of all feminine nature . 
But darling Ruth knew no more than we did , and indeed I must do her the justice to say that she has been quite as inquisitive . 
If there is law in the land he shall not . 
Surely , John , you will not let him ? 'That I won't , said I , 'except upon the conditions which I offered him once before . 
If we owe him the pony , we owe him the straps . 
Sweet Annie laughed , like a bell , at this , and then she went on with her story . 
'Well , John , we were perfectly miserable . 
But never having belonged to Balaam , darling Dolly was quite unsuccessful , though often she strove to tell me , with her ears down , and both eyes rolling . 
But Uncle Ben was too deep for that he cut off the ribbon before he started , saying he would have no Doones after him . 
'But though we were dashed to the ground for a time , we were not wholly discomfited . 
Our determination to know all about it seemed to increase with the difficulty . 
So we sent him to bed at the earliest moment , and held a small council upon him . 
, had gone forth grumbling about your bad supper and not taking it as a good lesson . 
'Why , Annie , I cried , in amazement at this , 'I will never trust you again for a supper . 
I thought you were so sorry . 
'And so I was , dear very sorry . 
But still we must do our duty . 
'Not for money , plaize , miss , said John Fry , taking a pull at the beer 'but for the love of your swate face . 
'To be sure , John with the King's behind it . 
'Ay and raight wull a doo'd un , John cried , with his mouth in the bullock's horn . 
'Well , and what did you see , John ? I asked , with great anxiety though I meant to have shown no interest . 
'John was just at the very point of it , Lizzie answered me sharply , 'when you chose to come in and stop him . 
'Then let him begin again , said I 'things being gone so far , it is now my duty to know everything , for the sake of you girls and mother . 
'Hem ! cried Lizzie , in a nasty way but I took no notice of her , for she was always bad to deal with . 
Therefore John Fry began again , being heartily glad to do so , that his story might get out of the tumble which all our talk had made in it . 
I will take it from his mouth altogether , and state in brief what happened . 
It was a long flat sweep of moorland over which he was gazing , with a few bogs here and there , and brushy places round them . 
At least , our cows have gotten this trick , and I have heard other people complain of it . 
to venture across that moor alone , even with a fast pony under him , and some whisky by his side . 
, either for the sake of Annie's sweet face , or of the golden guinea , which the three maidens had subscribed to reward his skill and valour . 
But the truth was that he could not resist his own great curiosity . 
For all about there it is adders' ground , and large black serpents dwell in the marshes , and can swim as well as crawl . 
John knew that the man who was riding there could be none but Uncle Reuben , for none of the Doones ever passed that way , and the shepherds were afraid of it . 
Moreover , John so throbbed with hope to find some wealthy secret , that come what would of it he resolved to go to the end of the matter . 
Therefore he only waited awhile for fear of being discovered , till Master Huckaback turned to the left and entered a little gully , whence he could not survey the moor . 
And now it behoved him to be most wary for Uncle Ben might have stopped in there , either to rest his horse or having reached the end of his journey . 
And in either case , John had little doubt that he himself would be pistolled , and nothing more ever heard of him . 
Therefore he made his pony come to the mouth of it sideways , and leaned over and peered in around the rocky corner , while the little horse cropped at the briars . 
Some yellow sand lay here and there between the starving grasses , and this he examined narrowly for a trace of Master Huckaback . 
At last he saw that , beyond all doubt , the man he was pursuing had taken the course which led down hill and down the hill he must follow him . 
And this John did with deep misgivings , and a hearty wish that he had never started upon so perilous an errand . 
For now he knew not where he was , and scarcely dared to ask himself , having heard of a horrible hole , somewhere in this neighbourhood , called the Wizard's Slough . 
Therefore John rode down the slope , with sorrow , and great caution . 
And these grew more as he went onward , and his pony reared against him , being scared , although a native of the roughest moorland . 
For there was the Wizard's Slough itself , as black as death , and bubbling , with a few scant yellow reeds in a ring around it . 
Outside these , bright water grass of the liveliest green was creeping , tempting any unwary foot to step , and plunge , and founder . 
And on the marge were blue campanula , sundew , and forget me not , such as no child could resist . 
And not a bird was seen or heard , neither rail nor water hen , wag tail nor reed warbler . 
And now he proved how well it is to be wary and wide awake , even in lonesome places . 
He knew that a man had been hanged last week , and that this was the ninth day after it . 
And he took good care to be home before dark , having followed a well known sheep track . 
I firmly believe that you fell asleep at the top of the black combe , after drinking all your whisky , and never went on the moor at all . 
You know what a liar you are , John . 
The girls were exceedingly angry at this , and laid their hands before my mouth but I waited for John to answer , with my eyes fixed upon him steadfastly . 
I wush to God it wor , boy a maight slape this naight the better . 
'I believe you speak the truth , John and I ask your pardon . 
Now not a word to any one , about this strange affair . 
There is mischief brewing , I can see and it is my place to attend to it . 
Several things come across me now onlyI will not tell you . 
Too much of this matter is known already . 
It is for your own dear sakes that I am bound to be cautious . 
I have an opinion of my own but it may be a very wrong one I will not ask you to share it with me neither will I make you inquisitive . 
Annie pouted , and Lizzie frowned , and Ruth looked at me with her eyes wide open , but no other mark of regarding me . 
could be trusted to keep a secret , that one was Ruth Huckaback . 
We knew for certain that at Taunton , Bridgwater , and even Dulverton , there was much disaffection towards the King , and regret for the days of the Puritans . 
On the other hand , they were not likely to entertain much affection for the son of the man who had banished them and confiscated their property . 
Whence it will be clear that we were not the sort of people to be safe among disturbances . 
, a difference came again upon it , and a change of chances . 
For he begged her to see to his young grand daughter , until he could find opportunity of fetching her safely to Dulverton . 
Mother was overjoyed at this , as she could not help displaying and Ruth was quite as much delighted , although she durst not show it . 
Truly she was an altered girl from the day she came to us catching our unsuspicious manners , and our free goodwill , and hearty noise of laughing . 
I had begged my sister Annie to let Sally Snowe know , once for all , that it was not in my power to have any thing more to do with her . 
Sally changed colour a little at this , and then went on about a red cow which had passed seven needles at milking time . 
And another thing occurred as well , which vexed me more than it need have done , for so small a matter . 
And this was that my little offering of the trout and the new laid eggs was carried off in the coolest manner by that vile Carver Doone . 
, and while I was turning the ring in my pocket , having just seen the new moon , I became aware of a great man coming eisurely down the valley . 
Nothing playful , nothing pleasant , nothing with a track of smiles nothing which a friend could like , and laugh at him for having . 
I say that he might have seemed a good man , but for the cold and cruel hankering of his steel blue eyes . 
, I almost longed that he might thrust his head in to look after me . 
However , he suspected nothing of my dangerous neighbourhood , but walked his round like a sentinel , and turned at the brink of the water . 
Then as he marched back again , along the margin of the stream , he espied my little hoard , covered up with dog leaves . 
He saw that the leaves were upside down , and this of course drew his attention . 
It was better to bear this trifling loss , however ignominious and goading to the spirit , than to risk my love and Lorna's welfare , and perhaps be shot into the bargain . 
And I think that all will agree with me , that I acted for the wisest , in withdrawing to my shelter , though deprived of eggs and fishes . 
until there was no chance whatever of my love appearing , I hastened homeward very sadly and the wind of early autumn moaned across the moorland . 
All the beauty of the harvest , all the gaiety was gone , and the early fall of dusk was like a weight upon me . 
Nevertheless , I went every evening thenceforward for a fortnight hoping , every time in vain to find my hope and comfort . 
And meanwhile , what perplexed me most was that the signals were replaced , in order as agreed upon , so that Lorna could scarcely be restrained by any rigour . 
One time I had a narrow chance of being shot and settled with and it befell me thus . 
I was waiting very carelessly , being now a little desperate , at the entrance to the glen , instead of watching through my sight hole , as the proper practice was . 
Suddenly a ball went by me , with a whizz and whistle , passing through my hat and sweeping it away all folded up . 
Sore trouble had I to keep close quarters , from the slipperiness of the stone beneath me with the water sliding over it . 
Then at the foot of the waterslide , my black hat suddenly appeared , tossing in white foam , and fluttering like a raven wounded . 
Now I had doubted which hat to take , when I left home that day till I thought that the black became me best , and might seem kinder to Lorna . 
'Have I killed thee , old bird , at last ? my enemy cried in triumph ''tis the third time I have shot at thee , and thou wast beginning to mock me . 
No more of thy cursed croaking now , to wake me in the morning . 
Ha , ha ! there are not many who get three chances from Carver Doone and none ever go beyond it . 
For to tell the truth , I was heartily tired of lurking and playing bo peep so long to which nothing could have reconciled me , except my fear for Lorna . 
Now that same night I think it was , or at any rate the next one , that I noticed Betty Muxworthy going on most strangely . 
She made the queerest signs to me , when nobody was looking , and laid her fingers on her lips , and pointed over her shoulder . 
But presently she poked me with the heel of a fire bundle , and passing close to my ear whispered , so that none else could hear her , 'Larna Doo un . 
'Oh , Betty , let me help you ! That work is much too hard for you , I cried with a sudden chivalry , which only won rude answer . 
'Zeed me adooing of thic , every naight last ten year , Jan , wiout vindin' out how hard it wor . 
But if zo bee thee wants to help , carr peg's bucket for me . 
Massy , if I ain't forgotten to fade the pegs till now . 
Favouring me with another wink , to which I now paid the keenest heed , Betty went and fetched the lanthorn from the hook inside the door . 
, she said to me as quietly as a maiden might ask one to carry a glove , 'Jan Ridd , carr thic thing for me . 
So I carried it for her , without any words wondering what she was up to next , and whether she had ever heard of being too hard on the willing horse . 
And when we came to hog pound , she turned upon me suddenly , with the lanthorn she was bearing , and saw that I had the bock by one hand very easily . 
'Jan Ridd , she said , 'there be no other man in England cud a' dood it . 
Now thee shalt have Larna . 
They had resigned themselves , as even pigs do , to a kind of fast , hoping to break their fast more sweetly on the morrow morning . 
Wish they wud gie thee a good baite , mak thee hop a bit vaster , I reckon . 
Hit that there girt ozebird over's back wi' the broomstick , he be robbing of my young zow . 
Choog , choog , choog ! and a drap more left in the dripping pail . 
, 'come now , Betty , how much longer am I to wait for your message ? Surely I am as good as a pig . 
'Dunno as thee be , Jan . 
No straikiness in thy bakkon . 
And now I come to think of it , Jan , thee zed , a wake agone last Vriday , as how I had got a girt be ard . 
Wull 'e stick to that now , Maister Jan ? 'No , no , Betty , certainly not I made a mistake about it . 
I should have said a becoming mustachio , such as you may well be proud of . 
'Then thee be a laiar , Jan Ridd . 
Zay so , laike a man , lad . 
'Not with all England for her dowry . 
Oh , Betty , you know better . 
'Ah's me ! I know much worse , Jan . 
Break thy poor mother's heart it will . 
And to think of arl the danger ! Dost love Larna now so much ? 'With all the strength of my heart and soul . 
I will have her , or I will die , Betty . 
Thee will die in either case . 
But it baint for me to argify . 
And do her love thee too , Jan ? 'I hope she does , Betty I hope she does . 
What do you think about it ? 'Ah , then I may hold my tongue to it . 
Knaw what boys and maidens be , as well as I knew young pegs . 
I myzell been o' that zort one taime every bit so well as you be . 
'No odds , no odds about that , she continued 'mak a fool of myzell to spake of it . 
But it be a lucky foolery for thee , my boy , I can tull 'ee . 
For I love to see the love in thee . 
Coom'th over me as the spring do , though I be naigh three score . 
Now , Jan , I will tell thee one thing , can't abear to zee thee vretting so . 
Hould thee head down , same as they pegs do . 
So I bent my head quite close to her and she whispered in my ear , 'Goo of a marning , thee girt soft . 
Her can't get out of an avening now , her hath zent word to me , to tull 'ee . 
But then she fell back , like a broom on its handle , and stared at me , feigning anger . 
'Oh fai , oh fai ! Lunnon impudence , I doubt . 
I vear thee hast gone on zadly , Jan . 
Then the woods arose in folds , like drapery of awakened mountains , stately with a depth of awe , and memory of the tempests . 
Who maketh His sun to rise upon both the just and the unjust . 
And surely but for the saving clause , Doone Glen had been in darkness . 
The bar of rock , with the water cleft breaking steeply through it , stood bold and bare , and dark in shadow , grey with red gullies down it . 
But the sun was beginning to glisten over the comb of the eastern highland , and through an archway of the wood hung with old nests and ivy . 
The lines of many a leaning tree were thrown , from the cliffs of the foreland , down upon the sparkling grass at the foot of the western crags . 
And through the dewy meadow's breast , fringed with shade , but touched on one side with the sun smile , ran the crystal water , curving in its brightness like diverted hope . 
On either bank , the blades of grass , making their last autumn growth , pricked their spears and crisped their tuftings with the pearly purity . 
The tenderness of their green appeared under the glaucous mantle while that grey suffusion , which is the blush of green life , spread its damask chastity . 
And yet all this with maiden shame , a conscious dream of things unknown , and a sense of fate about them . 
to expect me yet awhile or at least she told herself so . 
In the joy of awakened life and brightness of the morning , she had cast all care away , and seemed to float upon the sunrise , like a buoyant silver wave . 
'At last then , you are come , John . 
I thought you had forgotten me . 
I could not make you understand they have kept me prisoner every evening but come into my house you are in danger here . 
Meanwhile I could not answer , being overcome with joy , but followed to her little grotto , where I had been twice before . 
I knew that the crowning moment of my life was coming that Lorna would own her love for me . 
'This is not what I came to know , I whispered very softly , 'you know what I am come to ask . 
'If you are come on purpose to ask anything , why do you delay so ? She turned away very bravely , but I saw that her lips were trembling . 
As I spoke these words of passion in a low soft voice , Lorna trembled more and more but she made no answer , neither yet looked up at me . 
I have waited long and long and though I am so far below you I can wait no longer but must have my answer . 
'You have been very faithful , John , she murmured to the fern and moss 'I suppose I must reward you . 
'That will not do for me , I said 'I will not have reluctant liking , nor assent for pity's sake which only means endurance . 
I must have all love , or none , I must have your heart of hearts even as you have mine , Lorna . 
While I spoke , she glanced up shyly through her fluttering lashes , to prolong my doubt one moment , for her own delicious pride . 
I shall never be my own again . 
I am yours , my own one , for ever and for ever . 
I am sure I know not what I did , or what I said thereafter , being overcome with transport by her words and at her gaze . 
'That will do , said Lorna gently , but violently blushing 'for the present that will do , John . 
And now remember one thing , dear . 
All the kindness is to be on my side and you are to be very distant , as behoves to a young maiden except when I invite you . 
But you may kiss my hand , John oh , yes , you may kiss my hand , you know . 
'Every time you cry , said I , drawing her closer to me 'I shall consider it an invitation not to be too distant . 
There now , none shall make you weep . 
CHAPTER XXXIV TWO NEGATIVES MAKE AN AFFIRMATIVE There was , however , no possibility of depressing me at such a time . 
Unluckily for my designs , who should be sitting down at breakfast with my mother and the rest but Squire Faggus , as everybody now began to entitle him . 
I noticed something odd about him , something uncomfortable in his manner , and a lack of that ease and humour which had been wont to distinguish him . 
I feared in my heart what was coming on , and felt truly sorry for poor mother . 
And presently no doubt was left for Lizzie came running to meet me , at the bottom of the woodrick , and cried , 'Oh , John , there is such a business . 
Mother is in such a state of mind , and Annie crying her eyes out . 
What do you think ? You would never guess , though I have suspected it , ever so long . 
'No need for me to guess , I replied , as though with some indifference , because of her self important air 'I knew all about it long ago . 
You have not been crying much , I see . 
I should like you better if you had . 
'Why should I cry ? I like Tom Faggus . 
He is the only one I ever see with the spirit of a man . 
This was a cut , of course , at me . 
'Oh , John ! speak one good word for me , she cried with both hands laid in mine , and her tearful eyes looking up at me . 
'Oh , John , dear John , you won't tell her about Lorna oh , not to day , dear . 
'Yes , to day , and at once , Annie . 
I want to have it over , and be done with it . 
'Oh , but think of her , dear . 
I am sure she could not bear it , after this great shock already . 
'She will bear it all the better , said I 'the one will drive the other out . 
I know exactly what mother is . 
'Now , John , how on earth can you know all that ? exclaimed my sister , wiping her eyes , and gazing at me with a soft bright smile . 
But tell me , darling John , how you learned all this . 
'Never you mind , I replied , with a nod of some conceit , I fear 'I must be a fool if I did not know what mother is by this time . 
but rather because it is not well , when people repent of hasty speech , to enter it against them . 
That is said to be the angels' business and I doubt if they can attend to it much , without doing injury to themselves . 
, and her right arm round our Annie's waist , and scarcely knowing which of us she ought to make the most of , or which deserved most pity . 
in better share than the visible . 
, and a neck as white as snow but Lizzie was not gifted with our gait and port , and bounding health . 
Now , while we sat on the garden bench , under the great ash tree , we left dear mother to take her own way , and talk at her own pleasure . 
Children almost always are more wide awake than their parents . 
The fathers and the mothers laugh but the young ones have the best of them . 
'Darling John , my mother said , 'your case is a very hard one . 
John , you are very wise in kissing me but perhaps you would not be so wise in bringing Lorna for an afternoon , just to see what she thinks of me . 
What do you say , Annie ? 'She will eat whatever John desires , I should hope , said Annie gravely 'particularly as I made them . 
'Oh that I could only get the chance of trying her ! I answered , 'if you could once behold her , mother , you would never let her go again . 
And she would love you with all her heart , she is so good and gentle . 
I see now that my time is over . 
Lizzie and I will seek our fortunes . 
'Now , mother , I cried 'will you have the kindness not to talk any nonsense ? Everything belongs to you and so , I hope , your children do . 
And you , in turn , belong to us as you have proved ever since oh , ever since we can remember . 
Why do you make Annie cry so ? You ought to know better than that . 
Mother upon this went over all the things she had done before how many times I know not neither does it matter . 
Only she seemed to enjoy it more , every time of doing it . 
pulled her one grey hair out . 
Now my mother , as might be expected , began at once to cast about for some means of relieving me from all further peril , and herself from great anxiety . 
except to keep a careful watch upon Lorna from safe distance , observe the policy of the Doones , and wait for a tide in their affairs . 
with a certain more peaceful heiress , although of inferior blood , who would be daily at my elbow . 
Likings will not come to order otherwise I should not be where I am this day . 
And of one thing I am rather glad Uncle Reuben well deserves that his pet scheme should miscarry . 
, I shall be careful not to tell him your opinion of him , lest I should thwart any schemes you may have upon his property . 
I thank you all for your kindness to me , which has been very great , far more than a little dwarfish creature could , for her own sake , expect . 
I will only add for your further guidance one more little truth . 
It is by no means certain that my grandfather will settle any of his miserable money upon me . 
And I often wish it were so . 
'Impudent little dwarf ! said my mother , recovering her breath after ever so long . 
I would have been glad to have married her to morrow , if I had never seen my Lorna . 
'And a nice nobody I should have been , in my own house ! cried mother 'I never can be thankful enough to darling Lorna for saving me . 
Did you see how her eyes flashed ? 'That I did and very fine they were . 
Now nine maidens out of ten would have feigned not to have heard one word that was said , and have borne black malice in their hearts . 
'So you would , replied my mother 'so any daughter of mine would have done , instead of railing and reviling . 
However , I am very sorry that any words of mine which the poor little thing chose to overhear should have made her so forget herself . 
I shall beg her pardon before she goes , and I shall expect her to beg mine . 
'That she will never do , said I 'a more resolute little maiden never yet had right upon her side although it was a mere accident . 
I might have said the same thing myself , and she was hard upon you , mother dear . 
After this , we said no more , at least about that matter and little Ruth , the next morning , left us , in spite of all that we could do . 
She vowed an everlasting friendship to my younger sister Eliza but she looked at Annie with some resentment , when they said good bye , for being so much taller . 
At any rate so Annie fancied , but she may have been quite wrong . 
, and I begged for one more to take to our mother , and before leaving , I obtained it . 
that any one cared to know it , being more and more peculiar to ourselves and no one else . 
But even if God would allow me this , in lieu of my wild inheritance , it is quite certain that the Doones never can and never will . 
But I will bind you to me , you dearest , with the very poorest and plainest thing that ever you set eyes on . 
This old ring must have been a giant's therefore it will fit you perhaps , you enormous John . 
ever since I can remember and long before that , as some woman told me . 
'Then you will never take me , that is all . 
I will have nothing to do with a gentleman' 'No gentleman , dear a yeoman . 
'Very well , a yeoman nothing to do with a yeoman who will not accept my love gage . 
So , if you please , give it back again , and take your lovely ring back . 
from chiding me 'Mistress Lorna , this is not the ring of any giant . 
I will accept it , my own one love and it shall go to my grave with me . 
And so it shall , unless there be villains who would dare to rob the dead . 
because it holds an important part in the history of my Lorna . 
And so she always had been , and now from her sweet breast she took it , and it became John Ridd's delight . 
Only she was quite certain , as indeed I myself was , that it must have belonged to an ancient race of great consideration , and high rank , in their time . 
Upon which I was for taking it off , lest it should be degraded by a common farmer's finger . 
, and it looked very queer , for a length of time , upon my great hard working hand . 
in London , and had earned my mother's gratitude , so far as ever he chose to have it . 
Now Master Jeremy Stickles , of course , knowing well what women are , durst not open to any of them the nature of his instructions . 
But at this present time of writing , all is over long ago ay and forgotten too , I ween , except by those who suffered . 
Therefore may I tell the whole without any breach of confidence . 
'John , he said , 'you have some right to know the meaning of all this , being trusted as you were by the Lord Chief Justice . 
But he found you scarcely supple enough , neither gifted with due brains . 
'Thank God for that same , I answered , while he tapped his head , to signify his own much larger allowance . 
This last hath fallen to my share , and a very thankless gift it is , although a rare and choice one . 
Much of peril too attends it daring courage and great coolness are as needful for the work as ready wit and spotless honour . 
Therefore His Majesty's advisers have chosen me for this high task , and they could not have chosen a better man . 
Although you have been in London , Jack , much longer than you wished it , you are wholly ignorant , of course , in matters of state , and the public weal . 
'Well , said I , 'no doubt but I am , and all the better for me . 
Although I heard a deal of them for everybody was talking , and ready to come to blows if only it could be done without danger . 
'Right , John , thou art right as usual . 
Let the King go his own gait . 
He hath too many mistresses to be ever England's master . 
'Things are changed since you were in town . 
The Whigs are getting up again , through the folly of the Tories killing poor Lord Russell and now this Master Sidney will make it worse again . 
There is much disaffection everywhere , and it must grow to an outbreak . 
Now , do you understand me , John ? 'In truth , not I. I see not what Tangier hath to do with Exmoor nor the Duke of Monmouth with Jeremy Stickles . 
'Thou great clod , put it the other way . 
Jeremy Stickles may have much to do about the Duke of Monmouth . 
The Whigs having failed of Exclusion , and having been punished bitterly for the blood they shed , are ripe for any violence . 
And the turn of the balance is now to them . 
See saw is the fashion of England always and the Whigs will soon be the top sawyers . 
'But , said I , still more confused , The King is the top sawyer , according to our proverb . 
How then can the Whigs be ? 'Thou art a hopeless ass , John . 
Better to sew with a chestnut than to teach thee the constitution . 
Let it be so , let it be . 
I have seen a boy of five years old more apt at politics than thou . 
Nay , look not offended , lad . 
It is my fault for being over deep to thee . 
I should have considered thy intellect . 
'Nay , Master Jeremy , make no apologies . 
It is I that should excuse myself but , God knows , I have no politics . 
'Stick to that , my lad , he answered 'so shalt thou die easier . 
, I am here to watch the gathering of a secret plot , not so much against the King as against the due succession . 
'Now I understand at last . 
But , Master Stickles , you might have said all that an hour ago almost . 
Blows , blows , are thy business , Jack . 
There thou art in thine element . 
And , haply , this business will bring thee plenty even for thy great head to take . 
Now hearken to one who wishes thee well , and plainly sees the end of it stick thou to the winning side , and have naught to do with the other one . 
Then I left him , and went to work at the sacks upon the corn floor , to take my evil spirit from me before I should see mother . 
For the present there was a little breach between Master Stickles and me , for which I blamed myself very sorely . 
When people say that , the truth often is that they can forgive nothing . 
But now my own affairs were thrown into such disorder that I could think of nothing else , and had the greatest difficulty in hiding my uneasiness . 
However , even that oppressed me with a heavy heart , which grew heavier , as I found from day to day no token . 
It seemed as if my love was dead , and the winds were at her funeral . 
Once I sought far up the valley , where I had never been before , even beyond the copse where Lorna had found and lost her brave young cousin . 
Following up the river channel , in shelter of the evening fog , I gained a corner within stone's throw of the last outlying cot . 
This was a gloomy , low , square house , without any light in the windows , roughly built of wood and stone , as I saw when I drew nearer . 
, I was led by curiosity , and perhaps by jealousy , to have a closer look at it . 
Therefore , I crept up the stream , losing half my sense of fear , by reason of anxiety . 
And in truth there was not much to fear , the sky being now too dark for even a shooter of wild fowl to make good aim . 
And nothing else but guns could hurt me , as in the pride of my strength I thought , and in my skill of single stick . 
Nevertheless , I went warily , being now almost among this nest of cockatrices . 
The back of Carver's house abutted on the waves of the rushing stream and seeing a loop hole , vacant for muskets , I looked in , but all was quiet . 
Then I took a careful survey of the dwelling , and its windows , and its door , and aspect , as if I had been a robber meaning to make privy entrance . 
It was well for me that I did this , as you will find hereafter . 
But a bar of red light across the river , some forty yards on above me , and crossing from the opposite side like a chain , prevented me . 
In that second house there was a gathering of loud and merry outlaws , making as much noise as if they had the law upon their side . 
Some , indeed , as I approached , were laying down both right and wrong , as purely , and with as high a sense , as if they knew the difference . 
Cold and troubled as I was , I could hardly keep from laughing . 
Not but what I might have entered from my unsuspected channel , as so often I had done but that I saw fearful need for knowing something more than that . 
It was no time for shilly shally , for the balance of this and that , or for a man with blood and muscle to pat his nose and ponder . 
Rudely rolling these ideas in my heavy head and brain I resolved to let the morrow put them into form and order , but not contradict them . 
, I slept , and there was no stopping me . 
At last , indeed , I flattered myself that I had baffled old Tape's curiosity but his wrinkled smile and his speech at parting made me again uneasy . 
'A very excellent will , young sir . 
Ha , ha ! Yes , yes ! Few young men are so free from exceptionable entanglements . 
Two guineas is my charge , sir and a rare good will for the money . 
Very prudent of you , sir . 
Does you credit in every way . 
Well , well we all must die and often the young before the old . 
Nevertheless I still abode in my fixed resolve to go , and find out , if I died for it , what was become of Lorna . 
, but started betimes in the evening , so as not to hurry , or waste any strength upon the way . 
And thus I came to the robbers' highway , walking circumspectly , scanning the sky line of every hill , and searching the folds of every valley , for any moving figure . 
As the road approached the entrance , it became more straight and strong , like a channel cut from rock , with the water brawling darkly along the naked side of it . 
like an enemy broke upon me , topping the eastward ridge of rock , and filling all the open spaces with the play of wavering light . 
I shrank back into the shadowy quarter on the right side of the road and gloomily employed myself to watch the triple entrance , on which the moonlight fell askew . 
All across and before the three rude and beetling archways hung a felled oak overhead , black , and thick , and threatening . 
This , as I heard before , could be let fall in a moment , so as to crush a score of men , and bar the approach of horses . 
And the access to this portcullis place if I may so call it , being no portcullis there was through certain rocky chambers known to the tenants only . 
However , I knew one thing for certain , to wit , that the longer I stayed debating the more would the enterprise pall upon me , and the less my relish be . 
, at the pleasure of the warders . 
a very fine line in the Latin grammar , whose emphasis and meaning is 'middle road is safest . 
Therefore , without more hesitation , I plunged into the middle way , holding a long ash staff before me , shodden at the end with iron . 
, but standing close beside him . 
Therefore it behoved me now to be exceedingly careful , and even that might scarce avail , without luck in proportion . 
One was sitting with his knees up , and left hand on his thigh and this one had his back to me , and seemed to be the stouter . 
The other leaned more against the rock , half sitting and half astraddle , and wearing leathern overalls , as if newly come from riding . 
And yet my only chance of slipping by them unperceived was to wait till they quarrelled more , and came to blows about it . 
, Charlie , or Charleworth Doone , the younger and taller man , reached forth his hand to seize the money , which he swore he had won that time . 
and then went out completely . 
At this , one swore , and the other laughed and before they had settled what to do , I was past them and round the corner . 
And then , too late , I knew my madness , for if either of them had fired , no doubt but what all the village would have risen and rushed upon me . 
Will the brimstone catch from your pipe , my lad ? 'My pipe is out , Phelps , ever so long . 
Damn it , I am not afraid of an owl , man . 
Give me the lanthorn , and stay here . 
I'm not half done with you yet , my friend . 
'Well said , my boy , well said ! Go straight to Carver's , mind you . 
The other sleepy heads be snoring , as there is nothing up to night . 
No dallying now under Captain's window . 
Queen will have nought to say to you and Carver will punch your head into a new wick for your lanthorn . 
'Will he though ? Two can play at that . 
coming toward me , with a loose and not too sober footfall . 
, his braided coat came against my thumb , and his leathern gaiters brushed my knee . 
If he had turned or noticed it , he would have been a dead man in a moment but his drunkenness saved him . 
Therefore I followed him without any especial caution and soon I had the pleasure of seeing his form against the moonlit sky . 
that be might not turn and espy me . 
that great deity preserved Charlie , his pious worshipper , from regarding consequences . 
So he led me very kindly to the top of the meadow land , where the stream from underground broke forth , seething quietly with a little hiss of bubbles . 
Hence I had fair view and outline of the robbers' township , spread with bushes here and there , but not heavily overshadowed . 
The moon , approaching now the full , brought the forms in manner forth , clothing each with character , as the moon does , to an eye accustomed . 
The tune that he whistled was strange to me , and lingered in my ears , as having something very new and striking , and fantastic in it . 
And I repeated it softly to myself , while I marked the position of the houses and the beauty of the village . 
As I passed Sir Ensor's house , my heart leaped up , for I spied a window , higher than the rest above the ground , and with a faint light moving . 
This could hardly fail to be the room wherein my darling lay for here that impudent young fellow had gazed while he was whistling . 
Warm with this idea , I hurried after Charleworth Doone , being resolved not to harm him now , unless my own life required it . 
I could see his great black chest , and arms , by the light of the lamp he bore . 
'Who wants me this time of night ? he grumbled , in a deep gruff voice 'any young scamp prowling after the maids shall have sore bones for his trouble . 
'All the fair maids are for thee , are they , Master Carver ? Charlie answered , laughing 'we young scamps must be well content with coarser stuff than thou wouldst have . 
'Would have ? Ay , and will have , the great beast muttered angrily . 
'I bide my time but not very long . 
Only one word for thy good , Charlie . 
I will fling thee senseless into the river , if ever I catch thy girl face there again . 
'Mayhap , Master Carver , it is more than thou couldst do . 
But I will not keep thee thou art not pleasant company to night . 
All I want is a light for my lanthorn , and a glass of schnapps , if thou hast it . 
'What is become of thy light , then ? Good for thee I am not on duty . 
'Likely tale , or likely lie , Charles ! We will have the truth to morrow . 
Here take thy light , and be gone with thee . 
All virtuous men are in bed now . 
Be off ! my patience is done with . 
My heart was in my mouth , as they say , when I stood in the shade by Lorna's window , and whispered her name gently . 
The Doones had been their own builders , for no one should know their ins and outs and of course their work was clumsy . 
As for their windows , they stole them mostly from the houses round about . 
And I durst not speak aloud because I saw another watchman posted on the western cliff , and commanding all the valley . 
espied me against the wall of the house , and advanced to the brink , and challenged me . 
'Who are you there ? Answer ! One , two , three and I fire at thee . 
My mouth would scarcely frame the notes , being parched with terror but to my surprise , the man fell back , dropped his gun , and saluted . 
, which Charleworth Doone had imitated , for decoy of Lorna . 
The watchman , perceiving the danger perhaps of intruding on Carver's privacy , not only retired along the cliff , but withdrew himself to good distance . 
Meanwhile he had done me the kindest service for Lorna came to the window at once , to see what the cause of the shout was , and drew back the curtain timidly . 
Then she opened the rough lattice and then she watched the cliff and trees and then she sighed very sadly . 
'Oh , Lorna , don't you know me ? I whispered from the side , being afraid of startling her by appearing over suddenly . 
Quick though she always was of thought , she knew me not from my whisper , and was shutting the window hastily when I caught it back , and showed myself . 
'John ! she cried , yet with sense enough not to speak aloud 'oh , you must be mad , John . 
'As mad as a March hare , said I , 'without any news of my darling . 
You knew I would come of course you did . 
'Well , I thought , perhaps you know now , John , you need not eat my hand . 
Do you see they have put iron bars across ? 'To be sure . 
Do you think I should be contented , even with this lovely hand , but for these vile iron bars . 
I will have them out before I go . 
Now , darling , for one moment just the other hand , for a change , you know . 
So I got the other , but was not honest for I kept them both , and felt their delicate beauty trembling , as I laid them to my heart . 
'Oh , John , you will make me cry directly' she had been crying long ago 'if you go on in that way . 
You know we can never have one another every one is against it . 
Why should I make you miserable ? Try not to think of me any more . 
'And will you try the same of me , Lorna ? 'Oh yes , John if you agree to it . 
At least I will try to try it . 
And if we do our best , Lorna , God alone can prevent us . 
She crossed herself , with one hand drawn free as I spoke so boldly and something swelled in her little throat , and prevented her from answering . 
The Counsellor and his son are now the masters of the valley and I dare not venture forth , for fear of anything they might do to me . 
When I went forth , to signal for you , Carver tried to seize me but I was too quick for him . 
Little Gwenny is not allowed to leave the valley now so that I could send no message . 
I have been so wretched , dear , lest you should think me false to you . 
The tyrants now make sure of me . 
You must watch this house , both night and day , if you wish to save me . 
He is a very strange old man and few have ever loved him . 
I hear the old nurse moving . 
Grandfather is sure to send for me . 
Keep back from the window . 
However , it was only Gwenny Carfax , Lorna's little handmaid my darling brought her to the window and presented her to me , almost laughing through her grief . 
'Oh , I am so glad , John Gwenny , I am so glad you came . 
I have wanted long to introduce you to my young man , as you call him . 
It is rather dark , but you can see him . 
I wish you to know him again , Gwenny . 
'Twadn't fair play nohow no , no don't tell me , 'twadn't fair play nohow . 
By that answer , or rather by the construction she put upon it , the heart of the Cornish girl was won , more than by gold and silver . 
'I shall knoo thee again , young man no fear of that , she answered , nodding with an air of patronage . 
'Now , missis , gae on coortin' , and I wall gae outside and watch for 'ee . 
Though expressed not over delicately , this proposal arose , no doubt , from Gwenny's sense of delicacy and I was very thankful to her for taking her departure . 
'She is the best little thing in the world , said Lorna , softly laughing 'and the queerest , and the truest . 
Nothing will bribe her against me . 
If she seems to be on the other side , never , never doubt her . 
Now no more of your coortin' , John ! I love you far too well for that . 
Yes , yes , ever so much ! If you will take a mean advantage of me . 
And as much as ever you like to imagine and then you may double it , after that . 
Only go , do go , good John kind , dear , darling John if you love me , go . 
'How can I go without settling anything ? I asked very sensibly . 
'How shall I know of your danger now ? Hit upon something you are so quick . 
Anything you can think of and then I will go , and not frighten you . 
'Gwenny can climb like any cat . 
She has been up there in the summer , watching the young birds , day by day , and daring the boys to touch them . 
There are neither birds , nor eggs there now , of course , and nothing doing . 
If you see but six rooks' nests I am in peril and want you . 
If you see but five , I am carried off by Carver . 
'Good God ! said I , at the mere idea in a tone which frightened Lorna . 
'Fear not , John , she whispered sadly , and my blood grew cold at it 'I have means to stop him or at least to save myself . 
If you can come within one day of that man's getting hold of me , you will find me quite unharmed . 
After that you will find me dead , or alive , according to circumstances , but in no case such that you need blush to look at me . 
I only said , 'God bless you , darling ! and she said the same to me , in a very low sad voice . 
nor up the cliffs at Lorna's bower but a way of my own inventing , which there is no need to dwell upon . 
A weight of care was off my mind though much of trouble hung there still . 
One thing was quite certain if Lorna could not have John Ridd , no one else should have her . 
And my mother , who sat up for me , and with me long time afterwards , agreed that this was comfort . 
for this reason only that without it there was no explaining John's dealings with Jeremy Stickles . 
in case of his meddling with my affairs , he had more and more allied himself with simple minded John , as he was pleased to call him . 
However , it appears that John related , for a certain consideration , all that he had seen , and doubtless more which had accrued to it . 
Upon this Master Stickles was much astonished at Uncle Reuben's proceedings , having always accounted him a most loyal , keen , and wary subject . 
All this I learned upon recovering Jeremy's good graces , which came to pass in no other way than by the saving of his life . 
One day Squire Faggus had dropped in upon us , just in time for dinner and very soon he and King's messenger were as thick as need be . 
Tom had brought his beloved mare to show her off to Annie , and he mounted his pretty sweetheart upon her , after giving Winnie notice to be on her very best behaviour . 
They could only say that Master Faggus , being attainted of felony , was not a capable grantee . 
'I will soon cure that , quoth Tom , 'my pardon has been ready for months and months , so soon as I care to sue it . 
And now he would go to London at once , and sue out his pardon , and then would his lovely darling Annie , etc . 
things which I had no right to hear , and in which I was not wanted . 
, yet heartily glad for Annie's sake only remembering now and then the old proverb 'Wrong never comes right . 
And all the lesser I bound in faggots , to come home on the sledd to the woodrick . 
It is not to be supposed that I did all this work , without many peeps at the seven rooks' nests , which proved my Lorna's safety . 
Fresh cut spars are not so good as those of a little seasoning especially if the sap was not gone down at the time of cutting . 
Therefore we always find it needful to have plenty still in stock . 
It was very pleasant there in the copse , sloping to the west as it was , and the sun descending brightly , with rocks and banks to dwell upon . 
All by the hedge ran a little stream , a thing that could barely name itself , flowing scarce more than a pint in a minute , because of the sunny weather . 
napped with moss all around the sides and hung with corded grasses . 
was in no little jeopardy . 
With the swiftness of terror I concluded that my visits to Glen Doone were known , and now my life was the forfeit . 
For I had seen the light gleam on their gun barrels , and knowing the faults of the neighbourhood , would fain avoid swelling their number . 
Then the three men came to the gap in the hedge , where I had been in and out so often and stood up , and looked in over . 
It is all very well for a man to boast that , in all his life , he has never been frightened , and believes that he never could be so . 
There may be men of that nature I will not dare to deny it only I have never known them . 
'Somebody been at work here it was the deep voice of Carver Doone 'jump up , Charlie , and look about we must have no witnesses . 
'Give me a hand behind , said Charlie , the same handsome young Doone I had seen that night 'this bank is too devilish steep for me . 
'Nonsense , man ! cried Marwood de Whichehalse , who to my amazement was the third of the number 'only a hind cutting faggots and of course he hath gone home long ago . 
Blind man's holiday , as we call it . 
I can see all over the place and there is not even a rabbit there . 
At that I drew my breath again , and thanked God I had gotten my coat on . 
, 'there is nobody there now , captain and lucky for the poor devil that he keepeth workman's hours . 
Even his chopper is gone , I see . 
'There is a big young fellow upon this farm , Carver Doone muttered sulkily , 'with whom I have an account to settle , if ever I come across him . 
He hath a cursed spite to us , because we shot his father . 
He was going to bring the lumpers upon us , only he was afeared , last winter . 
And he hath been in London lately , for some traitorous job , I doubt . 
'Oh , you mean that fool , John Ridd , answered the young squire 'a very simple clod hopper . 
No treachery in him I warrant he hath not the head for it . 
All he cares about is wrestling . 
As strong as a bull , and with no more brains . 
'A bullet for that bull , said Carver and I could see the grin on his scornful face 'a bullet for ballast to his brain , the first time I come across him . 
'Nonsense , captain ! I won't have him shot , for he is my old school fellow , and hath a very pretty sister . 
But his cousin is of a different mould , and ten times as dangerous . 
'We shall see , lads , we shall see , grumbled the great black bearded man . 
'Ill bodes for the fool that would hinder me . 
But come , let us onward . 
No lingering , or the viper will be in the bush from us . 
Body and soul , if he give us the slip , both of you shall answer it . 
Remember , I claim to be his confessor , because he hath insulted me . 
But in spite of all my fear , I was not wise enough to do that . 
, for in front where the brook ran out of the copse was a good stiff hedge of holly . 
I heard them , for I durst not look and could scarce keep still for trembling I heard them trampling outside the gap , uncertain which track they should follow . 
This holly hedge is too far away . 
Thy life for his , if we fail of it . 
'After me then , right into the hollow thy legs are growing stiff , captain . 
'So shall thy body be , young man , if thou leadest me astray in this . 
And then I knew who it was they were come on purpose to murder a thing which I might have guessed long before , but for terror and cold stupidity . 
And yet , I thank God that I have not any of these . 
It was no time to dwell upon that , only to try , if might be , to prevent the crime they were bound upon . 
To follow the armed men down the hill would have been certain death to me , because there was no covert there , and the last light hung upon it . 
Then I crossed Bagworthy stream , not far below Doone valley , and breasted the hill towards Slocombslade , with my heart very heavily panting . 
with a great horse pistol at my head as I seized upon his bridle . 
'Jeremy , Jerry , was all I could say , being so fearfully short of breath for I had crossed the ground quicker than any horse could . 
'Spoken just in time , John Ridd ! cried Master Stickles , still however pointing the pistol at me 'I might have known thee by thy size , John . 
What art doing here ? 'Come to save your life . 
For God's sake , go no farther . 
Three men in the covert there , with long guns , waiting for thee . 
'Ha ! I have been watched of late . 
That is why I pointed at thee , John . 
Back round this corner , and get thy breath , and tell me all about it . 
I never saw a man so hurried . 
I could beat thee now , John . 
'We will let them cool their heels , John Ridd , said Jeremy , after thinking a little . 
'I cannot fetch my musketeers either from Glenthorne or Lynmouth , in time to seize the fellows . 
And three desperate Doones , well armed , are too many for you and me . 
One result this attempt will have , it will make us attack them sooner than we had intended . 
And one more it will have , good John , it will make me thy friend for ever . 
Shake hands my lad , and forgive me freely for having been so cold to thee . 
Mayhap , in the troubles coming , it will help thee not a little to have done me this good turn . 
CHAPTER XXXIX TROUBLED STATE AND A FOOLISH JOKE Stickles took me aside the next day , and opened all his business to me , whether I would or not . 
Now what he said lay in no great compass and may be summed in smaller still especially as people know the chief part of it already . 
through that natural tide in all political channels , which verily moves as if it had the moon itself for its mistress . 
, but immediately the waters retire , lest they should undo it and every one says how fine it is , but leaves other people to walk on it . 
Against this rash and random current nearly all the ancient mariners of the State were set not to allow the brave ship to drift there , though some little boats might try it . 
be so far emboldened as to make public profession of the faith which he held . 
And as a Tory watchman or spy , as the Whigs would call him Jeremy Stickles was now among us and his duty was threefold . 
And indeed there had been no officer appointed to take toll , until one had been sent to Minehead , not so very long before . 
had been little heeded by the people hereabouts . 
, and politics , whether true to the King and the Pope , or otherwise . 
any importation of gunpowder , of which there had been some rumour in a word , to observe and forestall the enemy . 
Now in providing for this last mentioned service , the Government had made a great mistake , doubtless through their anxiety to escape any public attention . 
, for any political object although he might use them against the Doones as private criminals , if found needful and supposing that he could get them . 
'So you see , John , he said in conclusion , 'I have more work than tools to do it with . 
I am heartily sorry I ever accepted such a mixed and meagre commission . 
not only the desire to keep things quiet , but the paltry jealousy of the military people . 
The only thing that I can do with any chance of success , is to rout out these vile Doone fellows , and burn their houses over their heads . 
But after awhile you might get used to the dullness of being safe in your beds , and not losing your sisters and sweethearts . 
Surely , on the whole , it is as pleasant not to be robbed as to be robbed . 
For we always like to see our way and a sudden change upsets us . 
And beside all this , I was thinking , of course , and thinking more than all the rest , about the troubles that might ensue to my own beloved Lorna . 
The reason why is no odds of thine , nor in any way disloyal . 
Only in thy plans remember that I will not strike a blow , neither give any counsel , neither guard any prisoners . 
It was a foul and dastard deed , yet not done in cold blood neither in cold blood will I take God's task of avenging it . 
'Very well , John , answered Master Stickles , 'I know thine obstinacy . 
When thy mind is made up , to argue with thee is pelting a rock with peppercorns . 
But thou hast some other reason , lad , unless I am much mistaken , over and above thy merciful nature and Christian forgiveness . 
Anyhow , come and see it , John . 
There will be good sport , I reckon especially when we thrust our claws into the nest of the ravens . 
Many a yeoman will find his daughter , and some of the Porlock lads their sweethearts . 
'Good , my lord so be it . 
But one thing I tell thee in earnest . 
We will have thy old double dealing uncle , Huckaback of Dulverton , and march him first to assault Doone Castle , sure as my name is Stickles . 
I hear that he hath often vowed to storm the valley himself , if only he could find a dozen musketeers to back him . 
Now , we will give him chance to do it , and prove his loyalty to the King , which lies under some suspicion of late . 
I made bold , however , to ask Master Stickles at what time he intended to carry out this great and hazardous attempt . 
All this made me very uncomfortable , for many and many reasons , the chief and foremost being of course my anxiety about Lorna . 
as defenders of the public weal , and heroes of the universe . 
Among all these troubles , there was , however , or seemed to be , one comfort . 
The Squire himself acknowledged cheerfully that he could sooner take fifty purses than read a single line of it . 
Some people indeed went so far as to say that the parchment was made from a sheep Tom had stolen , and that was why it prevaricated so in giving him a character . 
But I , knowing something by this time , of lawyers , was able to contradict them affirming that the wolf had more than the sheep to do with this matter . 
For , according to our old saying , the three learned professions live by roguery on the three parts of a man . 
The doctor mauls our bodies the parson starves our souls , but the lawyer must be the adroitest knave , for he has to ensnare our minds . 
Therefore he takes a careful delight in covering his traps and engines with a spread of dead leaf words , whereof himself knows little more than half the way to spell them . 
in my own words and manner . 
because no man knows much of his sweetheart's tongue , until she has borne him a child or two . 
We always liked John's stories , not for any wit in them but because we laughed at the man , rather than the matter . 
and went over the brink of laughter . 
, came into the house that December evening , with every inch of him full of a tale . 
Meesus have got a quare vancy vor un , from wutt her have heer'd of the brade . 
Now zit quite , wull 'e Miss Luzzie , or a 'wunt goo on no vurder . 
Vaine little tayl I'll tull' ee , if so be thee zits quite . 
Wull , as I coom down the hill , I zeed a saight of volks astapping of the ro udwai . 
Arl on 'em wi' girt goons , or two men out of dree wi' 'em . 
Rackon there wor dree score on 'em , tak smarl and beg togather laike latt aloun the women and chillers zum on em wi' matches blowing , tothers wi' flint lacks . 
Shutt 'un wi'out a warrant ! says I sure 'ee knaws better nor thic , Bill ! A man mayn't shutt to another man , wi'out have a warrant , Bill . 
Warship zed so , last taime I zeed un , and nothing to the contrairy . 
Haw , haw ! Never frout about that , saith Bill , zame as I be tullin you us has warrants and warships enow , dree or vour on 'em . 
And more nor a dizzen warranties fro'ut I know to contrairy . 
Shutt any man I would myzell as intervared wi' my trade laike . 
Lucky for thee , said Bill Blacksmith , as thee bee'st so shart and fat , Jan . 
Dree on us wor a gooin' to shutt 'ee , till us zeed how fat thee waz , Jan . 
'Wull done then , Jan Vry , said the woman , who had entered quietly , but was only our old Molly . 
Wull , here was all these here men awaitin' , zum wi' harses , zum wi'out the common volk wi' long girt guns , and tha quarlity wi' girt broad swords . 
Who wor there ? Whay latt me zee . 
Thee cas'n goo no vurder , Bill Blacksmith saith to me nawbody 'lowed to crass the vord , until such time as Faggus coom plaise God us may mak sure of 'un . 
Amen , zo be it , says I God knoweth I be never in any hurry , and would zooner stop nor goo on most taimes . 
'Wi' that I pulled my vittles out , and zat a horsebarck , atin' of 'em , and oncommon good they was . 
Won't us have 'un this taime just , saith Tim Potter , as keepeth the bull there and yet I be zorry for 'un . 
But a man must kape the law , her must zo be her can only learn it . 
And now poor Tom will swing as high as the tops of they girt hashes there . 
Just thee kitch 'un virst , says I maisure rope , wi' the body to maisure by . 
Hurrah ! here be another now , saith Bill Blacksmith , grinning another coom to help us . 
Coort o' King's Bench , saith one man Checker and Plays , saith another Spishal Commission , I doubt , saith Bill Blacksmith backed by the Mayor of Taunton . 
Any Justice of the King's Peace , good people , to be found near here ? said the gentleman , lifting his hat to us , and very gracious in his manner . 
Your honour , saith Bill , with his hat off his head there be sax or zeven warships here arl on 'em very wise 'uns . 
Squaire Maunder there be the zinnyer . 
Sir , said he , good and worshipful sir , I am here to claim your good advice and valour for purposes of justice . 
I hold His Majesty's commission , to make to cease a notorious rogue , whose name is Thomas Faggus . 
With that he offered his commission but Squire Maunder told the truth , that he could not rade even words in print , much less written karakters . 
Then the other magistrates rode up , and put their heads together , how to meet the London gentleman without loss of importance . 
'plez to zen me the aks relatting to A GUSTUS PAKS , Ed . 
Your warships have posted the men right well , saith he with anather bow all round surely that big rogue will have no chance left among so many valiant musketeers . 
Ha ! what see I there , my friend ? Rust in the pan of your gun ! That gun would never go off , sure as I am the King's Commissioner . 
And I see another just as bad and lo , there the third ! Pardon me , gentlemen , I have been so used to His Majesty's Ordnance yards . 
But I fear that bold rogue would ride through all of you , and laugh at your worship's beards , by George . 
But what shall us do ? Squire Maunder axed I vear there be no oil here . 
Discharge your pieces , gentlemen , and let the men do the same or at least let us try to discharge them , and load again with fresh powder . 
It is the fog of the morning hath spoiled the priming . 
Bill Blacksmith , tell all the men to be ready to shoot up into the air , directly I give the word . 
Now , are you ready there , Bill ? All ready , your worship , saith Bill , saluting like a soldier . 
Then , one , two , dree , and shutt ! cries Squire Maunder , standing up in the irons of his stirrups . 
'Thereupon they all blazed out , and the noise of it went all round the hills with a girt thick cloud arising , and all the air smelling of powder . 
Good morning to your warships now , and a merry Christmas all of you ! And the merrier both for rich and poor , when gentlemen see their almsgiving . 
Lest you deny yourselves the pleasure , I will aid your warships . 
And to save you the trouble of following me , when your guns be loaded this is my strawberry mare , gentlemen , only with a little cream on her . 
Gentlemen all , in the name of the King , I thank you . 
The truth of this story is well established by first rate tradition . 
But I knew , and so Lizzie knew John Fry being now out of hearing that this was not sound argument . 
'Tom Faggus hath done wrong herein wrong to himself , and to our Annie . 
All he need have done was to show his pardon , and the magistrates would have rejoiced with him . 
He might have led a most godly life , and have been respected by everybody and knowing how brave Tom is , I thought that he would have done as much . 
'What word , Lizzie ? What does the wench mean ? I asked , in the saddest vexation seeing no good to ask Annie at all , for she carried on most dreadfully . 
, I even went out into the courtyard , and smoked a pipe , and wondered what on earth is the meaning of women . 
But that I was forced to do at this time , and in the manner following . 
For me to enter the valley now , during the broad daylight , could have brought no comfort , but only harm to the maiden , and certain death to myself . 
However , no impatience of mine made any difference in the scene upon which I was gazing . 
without blunting his razor on hard gray ice . 
, he must have seen almost a harder frost and perhaps it put an end to him for then he would be some fourscore years old . 
But tradition makes him 'keep yatt , as he says , up to fivescore years . 
foretold a very bitter winter this year . 
It was lucky for me , while I waited here , that our very best sheep dog , old Watch , had chosen to accompany me that day . 
For otherwise I must have had no dinner , being unpersuaded , even by that , to quit my survey of the valley . 
It was the same figure I had seen once before in the moonlight , at Plover's Barrows and proved , to my great delight , to be the little maid Gwenny Carfax . 
'Young man , she said , 'you must come with me . 
I was gwain' all the way to fetch thee . 
Old man be dying and her can't die , or at least her won't , without first considering thee . 
That vexed he was about thy low blood , a' thought her would come to life again , on purpose for to bate 'ee . 
But after all , there can't be scarcely such bad luck as that . 
Now , if her strook thee , thou must take it there be no denaying of un . 
Fire I have seen afore , hot and red , and raging but I never seen cold fire afore , and it maketh me burn and shiver . 
For the first time of my life , I thought that she had not acted fairly . 
, while she deceived him about herself , and the life she had undertaken . 
Here at the bottom , she entered a thicket of gray ash stubs and black holly , with rocks around it gnarled with roots , and hung with masks of ivy . 
, and in that there was some comfort . 
We came out soon at the other end , and were at the top of Doone valley . 
In the chilly dusk air , it looked most untempting , especially during that state of mind under which I was labouring . 
As we crossed towards the Captain's house , we met a couple of great Doones lounging by the waterside . 
Gwenny said something to them , and although they stared very hard at me , they let me pass without hindrance . 
It is not too much to say that when the little maid opened Sir Ensor's door , my heart thumped , quite as much with terror as with hope of Lorna's presence . 
But in a moment the fear was gone , for Lorna was trembling in my arms , and my courage rose to comfort her . 
But Lorna took me by the hand as bravely as she could , and led me into a little passage where I could hear the river moaning and the branches rustling . 
At last my Lorna came back very pale , as I saw by the candle she carried , and whispered , 'Now be patient , dearest . 
Never mind what he says to you neither attempt to answer him . 
Look at him gently and steadfastly , and , if you can , with some show of reverence but above all things , no compassion it drives him almost mad . 
Now come walk very quietly . 
She led me into a cold , dark room , rough and very gloomy , although with two candles burning . 
I took little heed of the things in it , though I marked that the window was open . 
Only in his great black eyes , fixed upon me solemnly , all the power of his body dwelt , all the life of his soul was burning . 
I could not look at him very nicely , being afeared of the death in his face , and most afeared to show it . 
And to tell the truth , my poor blue eyes fell away from the blackness of his , as if it had been my coffin plate . 
Therefore I made a low obeisance , and tried not to shiver . 
Only I groaned that Lorna thought it good manners to leave us two together . 
, he took on himself to make good the deficiency with a very bitter smile . 
'I would not answer for that , John , Sir Ensor replied , very quietly , when I expected fury . 
'If it be so , thy family is the very oldest in Europe . 
Now hearken to me , boy , or clown , or honest fool , or whatever thou art hearken to an old man's words , who has not many hours to live . 
There is nothing in this world to fear , nothing to revere or trust , nothing even to hope for least of all , is there aught to love . 
'I hope your worship is not quite right , I answered , with great misgivings 'else it is a sad mistake for anybody to live , sir . 
to your happiness , when I forbid you ever to see that foolish child again . 
But when they are not so matched , the farce would become a long , dull tragedy , if anything were worth lamenting . 
There , I have reasoned enough with you I am not in the habit of reasoning . 
Though I have little confidence in man's honour , I have some reliance in woman's pride . 
You will pledge your word in Lorna's presence never to see or to seek her again never even to think of her more . 
Now call her , for I am weary . 
, and pointed to the door . 
Although my heart rebelled and kindled at his proud disdain , I could not disobey him freely but made a low salute , and went straightway in search of Lorna . 
Lorna Doone was crying softly at a little window , and listening to the river's grief . 
To my arm she made no answer , neither to my seeking eyes but to my heart , once for all , she spoke with her own upon it . 
Not a word , nor sound between us not even a kiss was interchanged but man , or maid , who has ever loved hath learned our understanding . 
Therefore it came to pass , that we saw fit to enter Sir Ensor's room in the following manner . 
Lorna , with her right hand swallowed entirely by the palm of mine , and her waist retired from view by means of my left arm . 
I , for my part , was too far gone to lag behind in the matter but carried my love bravely , fearing neither death nor hell , while she abode beside me . 
Old Sir Ensor looked much astonished . 
For forty years he had been obeyed and feared by all around him and he knew that I had feared him vastly , before I got hold of Lorna . 
And indeed I was still afraid of him only for loving Lorna so , and having to protect her . 
But though we be , we are well content , so long as we may be two fools together . 
I mean , nobody except me , dear . 
And here she turned to me again , and rose upon tiptoe , and kissed me . 
It is more fit for southern climates than for the fogs of Exmoor . 
CHAPTER XLI COLD COMFORT All things being full of flaw , all things being full of holes , the strength of all things is in shortness . 
But now I longed to see and know a great deal more about him , and hoped that he might not go to Heaven for at least a week or more . 
and I verily believe his heart was not a bad one , after all . 
, let us own that he was , at least , a brave and courteous gentleman . 
, but from true admiration of his strong will , and sympathy with his misfortunes . 
his consent to my resolve about Lorna . 
This he never did , except by his speech last written down from which as he mentioned grandchildren , a lawyer perhaps might have argued it . 
Not but what he may have meant to bestow on us his blessing only that he died next day , without taking the trouble to do it . 
He called indeed for his box of snuff , which was a very high thing to take and which he never took without being in very good humour , at least for him . 
And though it would not go up his nostrils , through the failure of his breath , he was pleased to have it there , and not to think of dying . 
his white mostacchio but he seemed to shake his head and I thought it kept his spirits up . 
, it does not take a man very long to enter into another man's death , and bring his own mood to suit it . 
He knows that his own is sure to come and nature is fond of the practice . 
to the death bed of Sir Ensor . 
, and others making great to do , and talking of their own time to come , telling their own age , and so on . 
But every one seemed to think , or feel , that I had a right to be there because the women took that view of it . 
to come near the dying man . 
Only the chief of the women said that from his face she believed and knew that he liked to have me at one side of his bed , and Lorna upon the other . 
Lorna hoped that he wanted to bless us but he only frowned at that , and let his hand drop downward , and crooked one knotted finger . 
'He wants something out of the bed , dear , Lorna whispered to me 'see what it is , upon your side , there . 
I followed the bent of his poor shrunken hand , and sought among the pilings and there I felt something hard and sharp , and drew it forth and gave it to him . 
It flashed , like the spray of a fountain upon us , in the dark winter of the room . 
He could not take it in his hand , but let it hang , as daisies do only making Lorna see that he meant her to have it . 
'Why , it is my glass necklace ! Lorna cried , in great surprise 'my necklace he always promised me and from which you have got the ring , John . 
But grandfather kept it , because the children wanted to pull it from my neck . 
May I have it now , dear grandfather ? Not unless you wish , dear . 
that she was doing what he wished . 
Then she gave to me the trinket , for the sake of safety and I stowed it in my breast . 
He seemed to me to follow this , and to be well content with it . 
Before Sir Ensor Doone was buried , the greatest frost of the century had set in , with its iron hand , and step of stone , on everything . 
I can hear what people tell me and I can see before my eyes . 
The ancient outlaw's funeral was a grand and moving sight more perhaps from the sense of contrast than from that of fitness . 
After all was over , I strode across the moors very sadly trying to keep the cold away by virtue of quick movement . 
The fog of the last three weeks was gone , neither did any rime remain but all things had a look of sameness , and a kind of furzy colour . 
It was freezing hard and sharp , with a piercing wind to back it and I had observed that the holy water froze upon Sir Ensor's coffin . 
, and that was how the birds were going , rather than flying as they used to fly . 
, partly running , partly flying , partly fluttering along silently , and without a voice , neither pricking head nor tail . 
And all the time their great black eyes , set with gold around them , seemed to look at any man , for mercy and for comfort . 
And I do believe they would eat from her hand things unnatural to them , lest she should he grieved and hurt by not knowing what to do for them . 
One of them was a noble bird , such as I never had seen before , of very fine bright plumage , and larger than a missel thrush . 
He was the hardest of all to please and yet he tried to do his best . 
Another little bird there was , whom I longed to welcome home , and protect from enemies , a little bird no native to us , but than any native dearer . 
such a snow set in as killed half of the sheep and many even of the red deer and the forest ponies . 
Hereupon mother nodded at him , having heard from her father about it , and how three men had been frozen to death , and how badly their stockings came off from them . 
I went to the window at once , of course and at first I could not understand what was doing outside of it . 
, with the walnut tree partly sheltering it and generally I could see the yard , and the woodrick , and even the church beyond . 
, at least a peck of snow had entered , following its own bend and fancy light as any cobweb . 
All the earth was flat with snow , all the air was thick with snow more than this no man could see , for all the world was snowing . 
I shut the window and dressed in haste and when I entered the kitchen , not even Betty , the earliest of all early birds , was there . 
I raked the ashes together a little , just to see a spark of warmth and then set forth to find John Fry , Jem Slocombe , and Bill Dadds . 
However , I found my way to the woodrick , and there got hold of a fine ash stake , cut by myself not long ago . 
CHAPTER XLII THE GREAT WINTER It must have snowed most wonderfully to have made that depth of covering in about eight hours . 
For one of Master Stickles' men , who had been out all the night , said that no snow began to fall until nearly midnight . 
However , we trudged along in a line I first , and the other men after me trying to keep my track , but finding legs and strength not up to it . 
Most of all , John Fry was groaning certain that his time was come , and sending messages to his wife , and blessings to his children . 
where the grooving chisel of the wind swept round . 
yet for us , with our flock beneath it , this great mount had but little charm . 
Watch began to scratch at once , and to howl along the sides of it he knew that his charge was buried there , and his business taken from him . 
But we four men set to in earnest , digging with all our might and main , shovelling away at the great white pile , and fetching it into the meadow . 
, and all converging towards the middle , held our tools and listened . 
The other men heard nothing at all or declared that they heard nothing , being anxious now to abandon the matter , because of the chill in their feet and knees . 
But I said , 'Go , if you choose all of you . 
And then we all fell to again and very soon we hauled him out . 
Also the churned snow beneath their feet was as yellow as gamboge . 
'No manner of maning to draive 'un , drough all they girt driftnesses . 
No other man should meddle with them I was resolved to try my strength against the strength of the elements and try it I did , ay , and proved it . 
A certain fierce delight burned in me , as the struggle grew harder but rather would I die than yield and at last I finished it . 
People talk of it to this day but none can tell what the labour was , who have not felt that snow and wind . 
, but from the pure impossibility of finding them at all . 
, a brilliant sun broke forth and showed the loss of all our customs . 
All our house was quite snowed up , except where we had purged a way , by dint of constant shovellings . 
The kitchen was as dark and darker than the cider cellar , and long lines of furrowed scollops ran even up to the chimney stacks . 
Several windows fell right inwards , through the weight of the snow against them and the few that stood , bulged in , and bent like an old bruised lanthorn . 
Long drawn alleys of white haze seemed to lead towards him , yet such as he could not come down , with any warmth remaining . 
Broad white curtains of the frost fog looped around the lower sky , on the verge of hill and valley , and above the laden trees . 
Only round the sun himself , and the spot of heaven he claimed , clustered a bright purple blue , clear , and calm , and deep . 
That night such a frost ensued as we had never dreamed of , neither read in ancient books , or histories of Frobisher . 
The kettle by the fire froze , and the crock upon the hearth cheeks many men were killed , and cattle rigid in their head ropes . 
, the sharp yet solemn sound of trees burst open by the frost blow . 
Our great walnut lost three branches , and has been dying ever since though growing meanwhile , as the soul does . 
And the ancient oak at the cross was rent , and many score of ash trees . 
will only make faces , and disbelieve till such another frost comes which perhaps may never be . 
I mean the red and painful chapping of my face and hands , from working in the snow all day , and lying in the frost all night . 
might take this for a proof of low and rustic blood and breeding . 
And this I say was the smallest thing for it was far more serious that we were losing half our stock , do all we would to shelter them . 
had long icicles from their muzzles , almost every morning . 
But of all things the very gravest , to my apprehension , was the impossibility of hearing , or having any token of or from my loved one . 
It mattered not what way the wind was . 
in the course of every day , following where the sun should be , as if to make a mock of him . 
And this of course immensely added to the peril of the drifts because they shifted every day and no skill or care might learn them . 
, she positively kissed me , for the sake of warming her lips perhaps , or because she had something proud to say . 
'Amen , I cried out 'are you parson or clerk ? Whichever you are , good morning . 
I was almost frozen in bed last night and Annie like an icicle . 
Feel how cold my hands are . 
Now attend to mother's hot coffee . 
She looked a little disappointed , but she knew what I had to do and after all she was not so utterly unreasonable although she did read books . 
And when I had done my morning's work , I listened to her patiently and it was out of my power to think that all she said was foolish . 
For I knew common sense pretty well , by this time , whether it happened to be my own , or any other person's , if clearly laid before me . 
And Lizzie had a particular way of setting forth very clearly whatever she wished to express and enforce . 
, yet they managed to get along , and make the time of the year to each other , by a little cleverness . 
But she did not tell me , nor did I give it a moment's thought myself , how hard it was to walk upon them without early practice . 
Then she told me another thing equally useful to me although I would not let her see how much I thought about it . 
But God shapes all our fitness , and gives each man his meaning , even as he guides the wavering lines of snow descending . 
a man's young love is very pleasant , very sweet , and tickling and takes him through the core of heart without his knowing how or why . 
Then he dwells upon it sideways , without people looking , and builds up all sorts of fancies , growing hot with working so at his own imaginings . 
, the lover makes it a sacred rite either to kick or to stick him . 
I am not speaking of me and Lorna , but of common people . 
lo ! or I will not say lo ! for no one can behold it only feel , or but remember , what a real mother is . 
faintest decimal of promise , even in her vilest child . 
at a wandering syllable of Gospel for her lost one . 
And she was as grateful and delighted as if she had no more claim upon me than a stranger's sheep might have . 
without so much as falling once , or getting my staff entangled . 
And likely enough I would have abandoned any further trial , but for Lizzie's ridicule , and pretended sympathy asking if the strong John Ridd would have old Betty to lean upon . 
Therefore I set to again , with a fixed resolve not to notice pain or stiffness , but to warm them out of me . 
And sure enough , before dark that day , I could get along pretty freely especially improving every time , after leaving off and resting . 
, that I had stolen Mother Melldrum's sieves , on which she was said to fly over the foreland at midnight every Saturday . 
Upon the following day , I held some council with my mother not liking to go without her permission , yet scarcely daring to ask for it . 
However my sense of duty kept me , and my knowledge of the catechism , from saying such a thing as that , or even thinking twice of it . 
, the utmost I could hope to do was to gain the crest of hills , and look into the Doone Glen . 
Hence I might at least descry whether Lorna still was safe , by the six nests still remaining , and the view of the Captain's house . 
Moor and highland , field and common , cliff and vale , and watercourse , over all the rolling folds of misty white were flung . 
There was nothing square or jagged left , there was nothing perpendicular all the rugged lines were eased , and all the breaches smoothly filled . 
Curves , and mounds , and rounded heavings , took the place of rock and stump and all the country looked as if a woman's hand had been on it . 
For although there had been such violent frost , every night , upon the snow , the snow itself , having never thawed , even for an hour , had never coated over . 
Hence it was as soft and light as if all had fallen yesterday . 
, although I never should have known it but for what it looked on . 
And even to know this last again required all the eyes of love , soever sharp and vigilant . 
now was besnowed half up the sides , and at either end so , that it was more like the white basins wherein we boil plum puddings . 
, and perhaps her window would not shut , any more than mine would and perhaps she wanted blankets . 
, I even resolved to slide the cliffs , and bravely go to Lorna . 
Therefore I took my neatsfoot oil , which now was clogged like honey , and rubbed it hard into my leg joints , so far as I could reach them . 
And then I set my back and elbows well against a snowdrift , hanging far adown the cliff , and saying some of the Lord's Prayer , threw myself on Providence . 
Before there was time to think or dream , I landed very beautifully upon a ridge of run up snow in a quiet corner . 
, being now afraid of nobody . 
in red , just between my shoulders , but covered now in snow flakes . 
The house was partly drifted up , though not so much as ours was and I crossed the little stream almost without knowing that it was under me . 
But mind thee , if it be the wrong one , thou shalt never draw it back again . 
Laughing at Gwenny's mighty threat , I showed my finger in the opening upon which she let me in , and barred the door again like lightning . 
'Maning enough , and bad maning too , the Cornish girl made answer . 
Us be shut in here , and starving , and durstn't let anybody in upon us . 
I wish thou wer't good to ate , young man I could manage most of thee . 
I was so frightened by her eyes , full of wolfish hunger , that I could only say 'Good God ! having never seen the like before . 
Then drew I forth a large piece of bread , which I had brought in case of accidents , and placed it in her hands . 
I meanwhile was occupied , to the best of my ability , in taking my snow shoes off , yet wondering much within myself why Lorna did not come to me . 
In betwixt her delicate lips , Gwenny was thrusting with all her strength the hard brown crust of the rye bread , which she had snatched from me so . 
Eat a piece I have got some more . 
Leave my darling now to me . 
'I never expected to see you again . 
I had made up my mind to die , John and to die without your knowing it . 
She gave me one little shrunken hand , and I could not help a tear for it . 
'And shall , afore I have done , young man , Gwenny answered laughing 'you come in here with they red chakes , and make us think o' sirloin . 
'Eat up your bit of brown bread , Gwenny . 
It is not good enough for your mistress . 
Bless her heart , I have something here such as she never tasted the like of , being in such appetite . 
Look here , Lorna smell it first . 
I have had it ever since Twelfth Day , and kept it all the time for you . 
That is enough to warrant it good cooking . 
But Lorna would not touch a morsel until she had thanked God for it , and given me the kindest kiss , and put a piece in Gwenny's mouth . 
I have eaten many things myself , with very great enjoyment , and keen perception of their merits , and some thanks to God for them . 
exactly as I told her . 
For I was afraid lest she should be too fast in going through it , and cause herself more damage so , than she got of nourishment . 
But I had no need to fear at all , and Lorna could not help laughing at me for thinking that she had no self control . 
, and some can do with a very little making , no doubt , the best of it . 
And I have often noticed that the plumpest and most perfect women never eat so hard and fast as the skinny and three cornered ones . 
These last be often ashamed of it , and eat most when the men be absent . 
, ate up hers without winking , after finishing the brown loaf and then I begged to know the meaning of this state of things . 
'The meaning is sad enough , said Lorna 'and I see no way out of it . 
We are both to be starved until I let them do what they like with me . 
'That is to say until you choose to marry Carver Doone , and be slowly killed by him ? 'Slowly ! No , John , quickly . 
I hate him so intensely , that less than a week would kill me . 
'Not a doubt of that , said Gwenny 'oh , she hates him nicely then but not half so much as I do . 
I told them that this state of things could be endured no longer , on which point they agreed with me , but saw no means to help it . 
'Gwenny , have you courage for it ? Will you come with your young mistress ? 'Will I stay behind ? cried Gwenny , in a voice that settled it . 
And so we began to arrange about it and I was much excited . 
It was useless now to leave it longer if it could be done at all , it could not be too quickly done . 
It was the Counsellor who had ordered , after all other schemes had failed , that his niece should have no food until she would obey him . 
He had strictly watched the house , taking turns with Carver , to ensure that none came nigh it bearing food or comfort . 
And Gwenny said that nothing made her so nearly mad with appetite as the account she received from a woman of all the dishes preparing . 
Don't you think it is high time to put on your snow shoes , John ? 'Certainly not , I answered , 'till we have settled something more . 
I was so cold when I came in and now I am as warm as a cricket . 
And so are you , you lively soul though you are not upon my hearth yet . 
'Remember , John , said Lorna , nestling for a moment to me 'the severity of the weather makes a great difference between us . 
And you must never take advantage . 
'I quite understand all that , dear . 
And the harder it freezes the better , while that understanding continues . 
Now do try to be serious . 
Come , Gwenny , imitate him . 
'Come to this frozen window , John , and see them light the stack fire . 
They will little know who looks at them . 
Now be very good , John . 
You stay in that corner , dear , and I will stand on this side and try to breathe yourself a peep hole through the lovely spears and banners . 
Oh , you don't know how to do it . 
I must do it for you . 
Breathe three times , like that , and that and then you rub it with your fingers , before it has time to freeze again . 
Perhaps the jealous heart is loath to own a life worth twice its own . 
Be that as it may , I know that we thawed the window nicely . 
, a little form of fire arising , red , and dark , and flickering . 
Presently it caught on something , and went upward boldly and then it struck into many forks , and then it fell , and rose again . 
'Do you know what all that is , John ? asked Lorna , smiling cleverly at the manner of my staring . 
'How on earth should I know ? Papists burn Protestants in the flesh and Protestants burn Papists in effigy , as we mock them . 
Lorna , are they going to burn any one to night ? 'No , you dear . 
I must rid you of these things . 
I see that you are bigoted . 
The Doones are firing Dunkery beacon , to celebrate their new captain . 
'But how could they bring it here through the snow ? If they have sledges , I can do nothing . 
'They brought it before the snow began . 
The moment poor grandfather was gone , even before his funeral , the young men , having none to check them , began at once upon it . 
They had always borne a grudge against it not that it ever did them harm but because it seemed so insolent . 
Can't a gentleman go home , without a smoke behind him ? I have often heard them saying . 
Ah , now look ! The tar is kindled . 
And one of the men who attended to it , or at least who was paid for doing so , was our Jem Slocombe's grandfather . 
However , in spite of all my regrets , the fire went up very merrily , blazing red and white and yellow , as it leaped on different things . 
And the light danced on the snow drifts with a misty lilac hue . 
And now they had a mighty pile , which must have covered five land yards square , heaped up to a goodly height , and eager to take fire . 
In this I saw great obstacle to what I wished to manage . 
As for the fire , it must sink in about three hours or more , and only cast uncertain shadows friendly to my purpose . 
'Sweetest , in two hours' time , I shall be again with you . 
Keep the bar up , and have Gwenny ready to answer any one . 
You are safe while they are dining , dear , and drinking healths , and all that stuff and before they have done with that , I shall be again with you . 
Have everything you care to take in a very little compass , and Gwenny must have no baggage . 
I shall knock loud , and then wait a little and then knock twice , very softly . 
For when I had promised to take my love from the power of those wretches , the only way of escape apparent lay through the main Doone gate . 
, it was snowed up long ago to the level of the hills around . 
, they could scarcely have discovered me . 
But , to my very great surprise , there was scarcely any snow there at all , though plenty curling high overhead from the cliff , like bolsters over it . 
Probably the sweeping of the north east wind up the narrow chasm had kept the showers from blocking it , although the water had no power under the bitter grip of frost . 
And here and there the ice was fibred with the trail of sludge weed , slanting from the side , and matted , so as to make resting place . 
Lo it was easy track and channel , as if for the very purpose made , down which I could guide my sledge with Lorna sitting in it . 
Against this danger I made provision , by fixing a stout bar across but of the other we must take our chance , and trust ourselves to Providence . 
Dear mother smiled softly at my excitement , though her own was not much less , I am sure , and enhanced by sore anxiety . 
Then I gave very strict directions to Annie , and praised her a little , and kissed her and I even endeavoured to flatter Eliza , lest she should be disagreeable . 
'Oh , John , here is the most wonderful thing ! Mother has never shown it before and I can't think how she could make up her mind . 
She had gotten it in a great well of a cupboard , with camphor , and spirits , and lavender . 
Lizzie says it is a most magnificent sealskin cloak , worth fifty pounds , or a farthing . 
'At any rate it is soft and warm , said I , very calmly flinging it into the bottom of the sledd . 
'Tell mother I will put it over Lorna's feet . 
'Lorna's feet ! Oh , you great fool , cried Annie , for the first time reviling me 'over her shoulders and be proud , you very stupid John . 
'It is not good enough for her feet , I answered , with strong emphasis 'but don't tell mother I said so , Annie . 
Only thank her very kindly . 
, and the sledd came after me as lightly as a dog might follow and Annie , with the lanthorn , seemed to be left behind and waiting like a pretty lamp post . 
In the great white desolation , distance was a mocking vision hills looked nigh , and valleys far when hills were far and valleys nigh . 
However , I went on quietly , and at a very tidy speed being only too thankful that the snow had ceased , and no wind as yet arisen . 
Nevertheless , I had work enough to keep me warm if I managed it . 
All these I passed , without the smallest risk or difficulty , walking up the channel of drift which I spoke of once before . 
And then I crossed , with more of care , and to the door of Lorna's house , and made the sign , and listened , after taking my snow shoes off . 
But no one came , as I expected , neither could I espy a light . 
And I seemed to hear a faint low sound , like the moaning of the snow wind . 
Then I knocked again more loudly , with a knocking at my heart and receiving no answer , set all my power at once against the door . 
In a moment it flew inwards , and I glided along the passage with my feet still slippery . 
There in Lorna's room I saw , by the moonlight flowing in , a sight which drove me beyond sense . 
Lorna was behind a chair , crouching in the corner , with her hands up , and a crucifix , or something that looked like it . 
In the middle of the room lay Gwenny Carfax , stupid , yet with one hand clutching the ankle of a struggling man . 
Another man stood above my Lorna , trying to draw the chair away . 
Then I took the other man by the neck and he could not plead for mercy . 
I bore him out of the house as lightly as I would bear a baby , yet squeezing his throat a little more than I fain would do to an infant . 
By the bright moonlight I saw that I carried Marwood de Whichehalse . 
Then I looked for the other fellow , tossed through Lorna's window , and found him lying stunned and bleeding , neither able to groan yet . 
Charleworth Doone , if his gushing blood did not much mislead me . 
She knew that I was with her and when I told her not to speak , she touched my hand in silence . 
Gwenny was in a much greater fright , having never seen such a thing before , neither knowing what it is to yield to pure love's confidence . 
I could hardly keep her quiet , without making a noise myself . 
Unpursued , yet looking back as if some one must be after us , we skirted round the black whirling pool , and gained the meadows beyond it . 
Here there was hard collar work , the track being all uphill and rough and Gwenny wanted to jump out , to lighten the sledd and to push behind . 
But I would not hear of it because it was now so deadly cold , and I feared that Lorna might get frozen , without having Gwenny to keep her warm . 
Gwenny's nose was touched with frost , before we had gone much farther , because she would not keep it quiet and snug beneath the sealskin . 
and rub it with a clove of snow , as Eliza had taught me and Gwenny scolding all the time , as if myself had frozen it . 
And so in about an hour's time , in spite of many hindrances , we came home to the old courtyard , and all the dogs saluted us . 
Upon the former subject my anxiety was wasted , for Lorna neither saw a thing , nor even opened her heavy eyes . 
And as to what mother would think of her , she was certain not to think at all , until she had cried over her . 
And so indeed it came to pass . 
Even at this length of time , I can hardly tell it , although so bright before my mind , because it moves my heart so . 
, and behind them , mother , looking as if she wanted to come first , but doubted how the manners lay . 
In the distance Lizzie stood , fearful of encouraging , but unable to keep out of it . 
'You shall see her first , I said 'is she not your daughter ? Hold the light there , Annie . 
'Us may tich of her now , I rackon , said Betty in her most jealous way 'Annie , tak her by the head , and I'll tak her by the toesen . 
No taime to stand here like girt gawks . 
Don'ee tak on zo , missus . 
Therefore I went and brought Gwenny in , and gave her a potful of bacon and peas , and an iron spoon to eat it with , which she did right heartily . 
and after that two little knocks . 
but feebly , and making two of it . 
Whereupon up jumped Lorna , and declared that her John was there . 
Thereupon I could have kissed her as a sort of tribute , liking to be appreciated yet the peas upon her lips made me think about it and thought is fatal to action . 
So I went to see my dear . 
That sight I shall not forget till my dying head falls back , and my breast can lift no more . 
I know not whether I were then more blessed , or harrowed by it . 
For in the settle was my Lorna , propped with pillows round her , and her clear hands spread sometimes to the blazing fireplace . 
In her eyes no knowledge was of anything around her , neither in her neck the sense of leaning towards anything . 
Only both her lovely hands were entreating something , to spare her , or to love her and the lines of supplication quivered in her sad white face . 
'All go away , except my mother , I said very quietly , but so that I would be obeyed and everybody knew it . 
Then mother came to me alone and she said , 'The frost is in her brain I have heard of this before , John . 
'Mother , I will have it out , was all that I could answer her 'leave her to me altogether only you sit there and watch . 
For I felt that Lorna knew me , and no other soul but me and that if not interfered with , she would soon come home to me . 
Therefore I sat gently by her , leaving nature , as it were , to her own good time and will . 
But the small entreating hands found their way , as if by instinct , to my great projecting palms and trembled there , and rested there . 
And then a little sob disturbed us , and mother tried to make believe that she was only coughing . 
CHAPTER XLV A CHANGE LONG NEEDED Jeremy Stickles was gone south , ere ever the frost set in , for the purpose of mustering forces to attack the Doone Glen . 
And to tell the truth I cared not how long this weather lasted , so long as we had enough to eat , and could keep ourselves from freezing . 
, after helping to strip the beacon , that young Squire was almost certain to have recognised me , and to have told the vile Carver . 
And it gave me no little pleasure to think how mad that Carver must be with me , for robbing him of the lovely bride whom he was starving into matrimony . 
However , I was not pleased at all with the prospect of the consequences but set all hands on to thresh the corn , ere the Doones could come and burn the ricks . 
And hundreds of the forest ponies died in this hard weather , some being buried in the snow , and more of them starved for want of grass . 
that she was not only welcome , but as gladdening to our eyes as the flowers of May . 
Of course , so far as regarded myself , this was not a hundredth part of the real truth and even as regarded others , I might have said it ten times over . 
As for John Fry , and Betty , and Molly , they were a perfect plague when Lorna came into the kitchen . 
And the worst of it was that Lorna took the strangest of all strange fancies for this very kitchen and it was hard to keep her out of it . 
, the very surest place to find her was our own old kitchen . 
to light it up , and make life and colour out of all the dullness as I have seen the breaking sun do among brown shocks of wheat . 
, he should just have seen my Lorna , after a fortnight of our life , and freedom from anxiety . 
, else I could not hope at all to get our corn into such compass that a good gun might protect it . 
and gifted with a leap of thought too swift for me to follow and hence you may find fault with much , when I report her sayings . 
But through the whole had always run , as a black string goes through pearls , something dark and touched with shadow , coloured as with an early end . 
But , now , behold ! there was none of this ! There was no getting her , for a moment , even to be serious . 
All her bright young wit was flashing , like a newly awakened flame , and all her high young spirits leaped , as if dancing to its fire . 
And yet she never spoke a word which gave more pain than pleasure . 
And even in her outward look there was much of difference . 
But this is neither here nor there and I must on with my story . 
, to me it was the very shortest and the most delicious and verily I do believe it was the same to Lorna . 
lo , there were increasing signals of a change of weather . 
Our people said that it was a witch cursing all the country from the caverns by the sea , and that frost and snow would last until we could catch and drown her . 
had the caverns all to herself , for there was no getting at her . 
vanished , and the shrouded hills shone forth with brightness manifold . 
So it was pleasant to behold , after that monotony , the fickle sky which suits our England , though abused by foreign folk . 
Neither was the heart more sluggish in its thankfulness to God . 
And hereby I may note a thing which some one may explain perhaps in the after ages , when people come to look at things . 
This is that in desperate cold all the trees were pulled awry , even though the wind had scattered the snow burden from them . 
Of some sorts the branches bended downwards , like an archway of other sorts the boughs curved upwards , like a red deer's frontlet . 
This I know no reason for but am ready to swear that I saw it . 
The reason is very simple , as all nature's reasons are though the subject has not yet been investigated thoroughly . 
are constricted , some have more power of contraction on the upper side , and some upon the under . 
, knowing at once the difference from the short sharp thud of snow , we all ran out , and filled our eyes and filled our hearts with gazing . 
mother fell upon my breast , and sobbed that I was the cleverest fellow ever born of woman . 
And this because I had condemned the prophets for a pack of fools not seeing how business could go on , if people stopped to hearken to them . 
This referred to some stupid joke made by John Fry or somebody , that in this weather a man had no legs , and a horse had only two . 
Neither was it a trifling thing , let whoso will say the contrary , to behold the ducks and geese marching forth in handsome order from their beds of fern and straw . 
'Oh , no , John ! Not for a minute , if you please , good John . 
I want to see the snow go away , and the green meadows coming forth . 
And here comes our favourite robin , who has lived in the oven so long , and sang us a song every morning . 
that I found myself unable to go very fast along the passage . 
Now my advice was never much , as everybody knew quite well but that was the way they always put it , when they wanted me to work for them . 
And in truth it was time for me to work not for others , but myself , and for Lorna . 
now was choked with lumps of ice , as big as a man's body . 
, of keeping all rooms underground , so that you step down to them . 
We say that thus we keep them warmer , both for cattle and for men , in the time of winter , and cooler in the summer time . 
Let that question still abide , for men who study ancient times to inform me , if they will all I know is , that now we had no blessings for the system . 
And I do assure you , I loved some horses , and even some cows for that matter , as if they had been my blood relations knowing as I did their virtues . 
And some of these were lost to us and I could not bear to think of them . 
Therefore I worked hard all night to try and save the rest of them . 
There we might see a hundred of them almost any morning , come for warmth , and food , and comfort , and scarce willing to move away . 
The drifts that had been so white and fair , looked yellow , and smirched , and muddy , and lost their graceful curves , and moulded lines , and airiness . 
But the strangest sight of all to me was in the bed of streams , and brooks , and especially of the Lynn river . 
It was worth going miles to behold such a thing , for a man might never have the chance again . 
Vast drifts of snow had filled the valley , and piled above the river course , fifty feet high in many places , and in some as much as a hundred . 
These had frozen over the top , and glanced the rain away from them , and being sustained by rock and tree , spanned the water mightily . 
But meanwhile the waxing flood , swollen from every moorland hollow and from every spouting crag , had dashed away all icy fetters , and was rolling gloriously . 
I was half inclined to jump in and swim through such glorious scenery for nothing used to please me more than swimming in a flooded river . 
it was all so soaked and sodden , and as we call it , 'mucksy , that to meddle with it in any way was to do more harm than good . 
Nevertheless , there was yard work , and house work , and tendence of stock , enough to save any man from idleness . 
As for Lorna , she would come out . 
There was no keeping her in the house . 
if any one assured her that she could do no good at all . 
She even began upon mother's garden before the snow was clean gone from it , and sowed a beautiful row of peas , every one of which the mice ate . 
mother's garden lay exposed to a dark deceitful coppice , where a man might lurk and watch all the fair gardener's doings . 
It was true that none could get at her thence , while the brook which ran between poured so great a torrent . 
Still the distance was but little for a gun to carry , if any one could be brutal enough to point a gun at Lorna . 
I thought that none could be found to do it but mother , having more experience , was not so certain of mankind . 
Now in spite of the floods , and the sloughs being out , and the state of the roads most perilous , Squire Faggus came at last , riding his famous strawberry mare . 
There was a great ado between him and Annie , as you may well suppose , after some four months of parting . 
And so we left them alone awhile , to coddle over their raptures . 
But when they were tired of that , or at least had time enough to do so , mother and I went in to know what news Tom had brought with him . 
Though he did not seem to want us yet , he made himself agreeable and so we sent Annie to cook the dinner while her sweetheart should tell us everything . 
Tom Faggus had very good news to tell , and he told it with such force of expression as made us laugh very heartily . 
He had taken up his purchase from old Sir Roger Bassett of a nice bit of land , to the south of the moors , and in the parish of Molland . 
When the lawyers knew thoroughly who he was , and how he had made his money , they behaved uncommonly well to him , and showed great sympathy with his pursuits . 
And so they made old Squire Bassett pay the bill for both sides and all he got for three hundred acres was a hundred and twenty pounds though Tom had paid five hundred . 
It is true that the land was poor and wild , and the soil exceeding shallow lying on the slope of rock , and burned up in hot summers . 
we generally have more moisture , especially in July , than we well know what to do with . 
I have known a fog for a fortnight at the summer solstice , and farmers talking in church about it when they ought to be praying . 
But it always contrives to come right in the end , as other visitations do , if we take them as true visits , and receive them kindly . 
was of the very finest pasture , when it got good store of rain . 
And Tom , who had ridden the Devonshire roads with many a reeking jacket , knew right well that he might trust the climate for that matter . 
The herbage was of the very sweetest , and the shortest , and the closest , having perhaps from ten to eighteen inches of wholesome soil between it and the solid rock . 
Tom saw at once what it was fit for the breeding of fine cattle . 
he had actually turned to his own advantage that extraordinary weather which had so impoverished every one around him . 
Of course Tom would get them all into his pound in about five minutes , for he himself could neigh in a manner which went to the heart of the wildest horse . 
And then he fed them well , and turned them into his great cattle pen , to abide their time for breaking , when the snow and frost should be over . 
And this was just the thing he loved to mystify honest people , and be a great deal too knowing . 
However , I may judge him harshly , because I myself tell everything . 
I asked him what he meant to do with all that enormous lot of horses , and why he had not exerted his wits to catch the red deer as well . 
He would break them , when the spring weather came on , and deal with them as they required , and keep the handsomest for breeding . 
I told him I wished that he might get it but as it proved afterwards , he did . 
Then he pressed us both on another point , the time for his marriage to Annie and mother looked at me to say when , and I looked back at mother . 
And this I spoke with a very bad grace , being perhaps of an ancient cast , and over fond of honesty I mean , of course , among lower people . 
And seeing that it would be awkward to provoke my anger , he left the room , before more words , to submit himself to Annie . 
But I rather wished that she might choose not to sit in Tom's company , though she might be introduced to him . 
Not but what he could behave quite as well as could , and much better , as regarded elegance and assurance , only that his honesty had not been as one might desire . 
Against this I had not a word to say and could not help acknowledging in my heart that she was right , as well as wise , in her decision . 
And afterwards I discovered that mother would have been much displeased , if she had decided otherwise . 
And truth to tell , when she came to dinner , everything about her was the neatest and prettiest that can possibly be imagined . 
The two objects of his close regard , were first , and most worthily , Lorna's face , and secondly , the ancient necklace restored to her by Sir Ensor Doone . 
And a very good dinner we made , I remember , and a very happy one attending to the women first , as now is the manner of eating except among the workmen . 
should be served first , and make the utmost of his time for feeding , while the women may go on , as much as ever they please , afterwards . 
And so we always arranged it . 
Indeed , she appeared to dine as if it were a matter of no consequence , and as if she could think of other things more than of her business . 
For it strikes me that of all human dealings , satire is the very lowest , and most mean and common . 
It is the equivalent in words of what bullying is in deeds and no more bespeaks a clever man , than the other does a brave one . 
'That is not at all like me , mother , I replied rather sadly 'you know almost every word about Lorna , quite as well as I do . 
'Almost every word , I believe , John for you never tell a falsehood . 
But the few unknown may be of all the most important to me . 
To this I made no answer , for fear of going beyond the truth , or else of making mischief . 
Not that I had , or wished to have , any mystery with mother neither was there in purest truth , any mystery in the matter to the utmost of my knowledge . 
'Come , come , said Master Faggus , smiling very pleasantly , 'you two understand each other , if any two on earth do . 
So I took it , and watched what he did with his own , lest I might go wrong about mine . 
He could not be mistaken , he said , for he had noticed her eyes especially and had never seen such eyes before , neither again , until this day . 
I asked him if he had ever ventured into the Doone valley but he shook his head , and replied that he valued his life a deal too much for that . 
Then we put it to him , whether anything might assist his memory but he said that he knew not of aught to do so , unless it were another glass of schnapps . 
This being provided , he grew very wise , and told us clearly and candidly that we were both very foolish . 
Nevertheless , in the name of God , don't let that helpless child go about with a thing worth half the county on her . 
'Tush , the ring ! Tom Faggus cried , with a contempt that moved me 'I would never have stopped a man for that . 
'Surely , cried mother , now flushing as red as Tom's own cheeks with excitement , 'you must be wrong , or the young mistress would herself have known it . 
I would have stopped an eight horse coach , with four carabined out riders , for such a booty as that . 
But alas , those days are over those were days worth living in . 
Ah , I never shall know the like again . 
Annie is my eldest daughter , and the child of a most upright man . 
I would have taken Tom by the nose , and thrown him , and Winnie after him , over our farm yard gate . 
For I am violent when roused and freely hereby acknowledge it though even my enemies will own that it takes a great deal to rouse me . 
of my dearest friends , to be a great deal to rouse me . 
, in a word as Mr. William Shakespeare , in every one of his works insists , with a humoured melancholy . 
But suddenly something fell on my head and at first I was afraid to look , especially as it weighed heavily . 
This I promised readily , never wishing to make mischief and I said , 'Good sir , now take the book I will go on to my business . 
And so I did in part at least . 
For I did not put the book under my coat , but went along with it openly , looking for any to challenge it . 
Now , as nothing very long abides , it cannot be expected that a woman's anger should last very long , if she be at all of the proper sort . 
However , her reasoning was too much for mother to hold out against and Tom was replaced , and more than that , being regarded now as an injured man . 
To prove herself right in the conclusion , she went herself to fetch Lorna , that the trinket might be examined , before the day grew dark . 
and I waved it towards her , as much as to say , 'you see that I can do it . 
And then mother led her up to the light , for Tom to examine her necklace . 
On the shapely curve of her neck it hung , like dewdrops upon a white hyacinth and I was vexed that Tom should have the chance to see it there . 
But even if she had read my thoughts , or outrun them with her own , Lorna turned away , and softly took the jewels from the place which so much adorned them . 
And as she turned away , they sparkled through the rich dark waves of hair . 
Then she laid the glittering circlet in my mother's hands and Tom Faggus took it eagerly , and bore it to the window . 
'Don't you go out of sight , I said 'you cannot resist such things as those , if they be what you think them . 
'Jack , I shall have to trounce thee yet . 
I am now a man of honour , and entitled to the duello . 
What will you take for it , Mistress Lorna ? At a hazard , say now . 
It is very bright , and very pretty but it cannot be worth five pounds , I am sure . 
'What a chance for a bargain ! Oh , if it were not for Annie , I could make my fortune . 
'But , sir , I would not sell it to you , not for twenty times five pounds . 
My grandfather was so kind about it and I think it belonged to my mother . 
'There are twenty five rose diamonds in it , and twenty five large brilliants that cannot be matched in London . 
But even before my sigh was finished , I had cause to condemn myself . 
Mother knew not what to say . 
Of course she would never dream of taking such a gift as that and yet she saw how sadly Lorna would be disappointed . 
Therefore , mother did , from habit , what she almost always did , she called me to help her . 
a dissertation on precious stones , and his sentiments about those in his hand . 
He said that the work was very ancient , but undoubtedly very good the cutting of every line was true , and every angle was in its place . 
And this he said , made all the difference in the lustre of the stone , and therefore in its value . 
To wit , that a trinket of this kind never could have belonged to any ignoble family , but to one of the very highest and most wealthy in England . 
And looking at Lorna , I felt that she must have come from a higher source than the very best of diamonds . 
We said no more about the necklace for a long time afterwards neither did my darling wear it , now that she knew its value , but did not know its history . 
to take charge of it again , as I once had done before , and not even to let her know in what place I stored it . 
Therefore it should dwell for the present in the neighbourhood of my heart and so could not be far from her . 
At this she smiled her own sweet smile , and touched my forehead with her lips . 
and wished that she could only learn how to deserve such love as mine . 
Tom Faggus took his good departure , which was a kind farewell to me , on the very day I am speaking of , the day after his arrival . 
Tom was a thoroughly upright man , according to his own standard and you might rely upon him always , up to a certain point I mean , to be there or thereabouts . 
But sometimes things were too many for Tom , especially with ardent spirits , and then he judged , perhaps too much , with only himself for the jury . 
At any rate , I would trust him fully , for candour and for honesty , in almost every case in which he himself could have no interest . 
And so we got on very well together and he thought me a fool and I tried my best not to think anything worse of him . 
, when in came Master Jeremy Stickles , splashed with mud from head to foot , and not in the very best of humours , though happy to get back again . 
'Hush ! cried Annie , quite shocked with her 'how would you like to be used to it ? Now , Betty , be quick with the things for me . 
Pork , or mutton , or deer's meat , sir ? We have some cured since the autumn . 
'Oh , deer's meat , by all means , Jeremy Stickles answered 'I have tasted none since I left you , though dreaming of it often . 
Well , this is better than being chased over the moors for one's life , John . 
All the way from Landacre Bridge , I have ridden a race for my precious life , at the peril of my limbs and neck . 
Three great Doones galloping after me , and a good job for me that they were so big , or they must have overtaken me . 
Just go and see to my horse , John , that's an excellent lad . 
He deserves a good turn this day , from me and I will render it to him . 
He had only a single trooper with him , a man not of the militia but of the King's army , whom Jeremy had brought from Exeter . 
As these two descended towards the bridge they observed that both the Kensford water and the River Barle were pouring down in mighty floods from the melting of the snow . 
The trooper did not like the look of it , and proposed to ride back again , and round by way of Simonsbath , where the stream is smaller . 
Then Jeremy did a gallant thing , for which I doubt whether I should have had the presence of mind in danger . 
He saw that to swim his horse back again would be almost certain death as affording such a target , where even a wound must be fatal . 
Therefore he struck the spurs into the nag , and rode through the water straight at the man who was pointing the long gun at him . 
If the horse had been carried off his legs , there must have been an end of Jeremy for the other men were getting ready to have another shot at him . 
But luckily the horse galloped right on without any need for swimming , being himself excited , no doubt , by all he had seen and heard of it . 
And Jeremy lay almost flat on his neck , so as to give little space for good aim , with the mane tossing wildly in front of him . 
He tried his other great pistol at one of the horses tethered there , so as to lessen the number of his pursuers . 
But the powder again failed him and he durst not stop to cut the bridles , bearing the men coming up the hill . 
So he even made the most of his start , thanking God that his weight was light , compared at least to what theirs was . 
And then he knew that his only chance lay in the stoutness of his steed . 
Therefore Stickles encouraged his nag , and put him into a good hard gallop , heading away towards Withycombe . 
The horse had broken through the crust of moss and sedge and marishweed , and could do nothing but wallow and sink , with the black water spirting over him . 
And Jeremy , struggling with all his might , saw the three villains now topping the crest , less than a furlong behind him and heard them shout in their savage delight . 
With the calmness of despair , he yet resolved to have one more try for it and scrambling over the horse's head , gained firm land , and tugged at the bridle . 
The poor nag replied with all his power to the call upon his courage , and reared his forefeet out of the slough , and with straining eyeballs gazed at him . 
One more spring , and he was on earth again , instead of being under it and Jeremy leaped on his back , and stooped , for he knew that they would fire . 
The Exe , though a much smaller stream than the Barle , now ran in a foaming torrent , unbridged , and too wide for leaping . 
But Jeremy's horse took the water well and both he and his rider were lightened , as well as comforted by it . 
And as they passed towards Lucott hill , and struck upon the founts of Lynn , the horses of the three pursuers began to tire under them . 
He acknowledged it with a wave of his hat , and laid one thumb to his nose , in the manner fashionable in London for expression of contempt . 
However , they followed him yet farther hoping to make him pay out dearly , if he should only miss the track , or fall upon morasses . 
'But was the poor soldier drowned ? asked Annie 'and you never went to look for him ! Oh , how very dreadful ! 'Shot , or drowned I know not which . 
Thank God it was only a trooper . 
But they shall pay for it , as dearly as if it had been a captain . 
You are apt , I perceive , at romances . 
The brand of it now is upon my back . 
must not he informed of any of his doings . 
Master Stickles complained that the weather had been against him bitterly , closing all the roads around him even as it had done with us . 
It had taken him eight days , he said , to get from Exeter to Plymouth whither he found that most of the troops had been drafted off from Exeter . 
Therefore , although they would gladly have come for a brush with the celebrated Doones , it was more than they durst attempt , in the face of their instructions . 
To these authorities Master Stickles now was forced to address himself , although he would rather have had one trooper than a score from the very best trained bands . 
Upon this matter I held long council with my good friend Stickles telling him all about Lorna's presence , and what I knew of her history . 
He agreed with me that we could not hope to escape an attack from the outlaws , and the more especially now that they knew himself to be returned to us . 
Also he praised me for my forethought in having threshed out all our corn , and hidden the produce in such a manner that they were not likely to find it . 
to Lynmouth , if a horse could pass the valley , and fetch every one of his mounted troopers , who might now be quartered there . 
Also if any men of courage , though capable only of handling a pitchfork , could be found in the neighbourhood , I was to try to summon them . 
, and thence galloped up and along the hills . 
But when I descended the hill towards Lynmouth , I feared that my journey was all in vain . 
was ramping and roaring frightfully , lashing whole trunks of trees on the rocks , and rending them , and grinding them . 
And into it rushed , from the opposite side , a torrent even madder upsetting what it came to aid shattering wave with boiling billow , and scattering wrath with fury . 
It was certain death to attempt the passage and the little wooden footbridge had been carried away long ago . 
And the men I was seeking must be , of course , on the other side of this deluge , for on my side there was not a single house . 
Though I could not make him hear a word , from the deafening roar of the torrent , I got him to understand at last that I wanted to cross over . 
Upon this he fetched another man , and the two of them launched a boat and paddling well out to sea , fetched round the mouth of the frantic river . 
The other man proved to be Stickles's chief mate and so he went back and fetched his comrades , bringing their weapons , but leaving their horses behind . 
It was lucky that I came home so soon for I found the house in a great commotion , and all the women trembling . 
When I asked what the matter was , Lorna , who seemed the most self possessed , answered that it was all her fault , for she alone had frightened them . 
And this in the following manner . 
The elder was smoothing its wrinkled leaves , being at least two months behind time and among them this calm cruel face appeared and she knew it was the face of Carver Doone . 
, lost all presence of mind hereat , and could neither shriek nor fly , but only gaze , as if bewitched . 
Then Carver Doone , with his deadly smile , gloating upon her horror , lifted his long gun , and pointed full at Lorna's heart . 
In vain she strove to turn away fright had stricken her stiff as stone . 
When it pointed to the ground , between her delicate arched insteps , he pulled the trigger , and the bullet flung the mould all over her . 
, fell away on a bank of grass , and wept at her own cowardice and trembled , and wondered where I was and what I would think of this . 
Good God ! What could I think of it ? She over rated my slow nature , to admit the question . 
Very likely , be thought that she would thank him for his kindness to her . 
But she was now recovering the power of her nimble limbs and ready to be off like hope , and wonder at her own cowardice . 
'I have spared you this time , he said , in his deep calm voice , 'only because it suits my plans and I never yield to temper . 
But you may take this as a general rule , that a woman likes praise from the man whom she loves , and cannot stop always to balance it . 
For we would almost surrender rather than keep our garrison hungry . 
And all our men were exceedingly brave and counted their rounds of the house in half pints . 
'My child , are you unhappy here ? mother asked her , very gently , for she had begun to regard her now as a daughter of her own . 
'Oh , no ! Too happy , by far too happy , Mrs. Ridd . 
I never knew rest or peace before , or met with real kindness . 
But I cannot be so ungrateful , I cannot be so wicked , as to bring you all into deadly peril , for my sake alone . 
Let me go you must not pay this great price for my happiness . 
'Dear child , we are paying no price at all , replied my mother , embracing her 'we are not threatened for your sake only . 
Ask John , he will tell you . 
He knows every bit about politics , and this is a political matter . 
'No , I used to say 'I can give you no reason , why it may not have been so , mother . 
But the question is , if it was so , or not rather than what it might have been . 
'There you are again , John , mother would reply , 'all about men , and not a single word about women . 
If you had any argument at all , you would own that marriage is a question upon which women are the best judges . 
'Oh ! I would groan in my spirit , and go leaving my dearest mother quite sure , that now at last she must have convinced me . 
However , she knew that something was doing and something of importance and she trusted in God for the rest of it . 
Only she used te tell me , very seriously , of an evening , 'The very least they can give you , dear John , is a coat of arms . 
Be sure you take nothing less , dear and the farm can well support it . 
But lo ! I have left Lorna ever so long , anxious to consult me upon political matters . 
She came to me , and her eyes alone asked a hundred questions , which I rather had answered upon her lips than troubled her pretty ears with them . 
On no account , whatever she did , was she to go to the window . 
'Shall I tell you what I think , John ? It is only a fancy of mine , and perhaps it is not worth telling . 
'Let us have it , dear , by all means . 
You know so much about their ways . 
'What I believe is this , John . 
You know how high the rivers are , higher than ever they were before , and twice as high , you have told me . 
I believe that Glen Doone is flooded , and all the houses under water . 
'You little witch , I answered 'what a fool I must be not to think of it ! Of course it is it must be . 
The torrent from all the Bagworthy forest , and all the valleys above it , and the great drifts in the glen itself , never could have outlet down my famous waterslide . 
The valley must be under water twenty feet at least . 
Well , if ever there was a fool , I am he , for not having thought of it . 
But you think that the floods are higher now , I believe I heard you say , John . 
'I don't think about it , my treasure , I answered 'you may trust me for understanding floods , after our work at Tiverton . 
And I know that the deluge in all our valleys is such that no living man can remember , neither will ever behold again . 
You may take my word for it , Mistress Lorna , that your pretty bower is six feet deep . 
'Well , my bower has served its time' , said Lorna , blushing as she remembered all that had happened there 'and my bower now is here , John . 
But I am so sorry to think of all the poor women flooded out of their houses and sheltering in the snowdrifts . 
However , there is one good of it they cannot send many men against us , with all this trouble upon them . 
'You are right , I replied 'how clever you are ! and that is why there were only three to cut off Master Stickles . 
And now we shall beat them , I make no doubt , even if they come at all . 
And I defy them to fire the house the thatch is too wet for burning . 
We sent all the women to bed quite early , except Gwenny Carfax and our old Betty . 
These two we allowed to stay up , because they might be useful to us , if they could keep from quarreling . 
For my part , I had little fear , after what Lorna had told me , as to the result of the combat . 
These five could not be trusted much for any valiant conduct , although they spoke very confidently over their cans of cider . 
Neither were their weapons fitted for much execution , unless it were at close quarters , which they would be likely to avoid . 
, and the parish clerk had brought his pitch pipe , which was enough to break any man's head . 
And being so well used to wrestling , and to judge antagonists , I felt that here I had found my match . 
By the bye , these Doones had got the worst of this pleasant trick one time . 
For happening to fire the ricks of a lonely farm called Yeanworthy , not far above Glenthorne , they approached the house to get people's goods , and to enjoy their terror . 
betwixt her and the flaming rick . 
Upon which she pulled the trigger with all the force of her thumb , and a quarter of a pound of duck shot went out with a blaze on the dancers . 
You may suppose what their dancing was , and their reeling how changed to staggering , and their music none of the sweetest . 
The flow of water was in my ears , and in my eyes a hazy spreading , and upon my brain a closure , as a cobbler sews a vamp up . 
Now this was very vile of me , and against all good resolutions , even such as I would have sworn to an hour ago or less . 
, and upon that a stout supper , mayhap you would not be so hard on my sleep though you felt it your duty to wake me . 
And but for this consideration , I must have striven harder against the stealthy approach of slumber . 
But even so , it was very foolish to abandon watch , especially in such as I , who sleep like any dormouse . 
Moreover , I had chosen the very worst place in the world for such employment , with a goodly chance of awakening in a bed of solid fire . 
And so it might have been , nay , it must have been , but for Lorna's vigilance . 
Her light hand upon my arm awoke me , not too readily and leaping up , I seized my club , and prepared to knock down somebody . 
'Who's that ? I cried 'stand back , I say , and let me have fair chance at you . 
I saw at once the truth of this . 
The moon was high and clearly lighting all the watered valleys . 
To sleep any longer might be death , not only to myself , but all . 
I think the women ought to be the watch , because they have had no travelling . 
Where do you suppose little Gwenny is ? 'Surely not gone to Glen Doone ? I was not sure , however for I could believe almost anything of the Cornish maiden's hardihood . 
'No , replied Lorna , 'although she wanted even to do that . 
But of course I would not hear of it , on account of the swollen waters . 
But she is perched on yonder tree , which commands the Barrow valley . 
If they cross , she is sure to see them , and in good time to let us know . 
Go to bed , my best and dearest I will take good care not to sleep again . 
'Please not to send me away , dear John , she answered very mournfully 'you and I have been together through perils worse than this . 
I shall only be more timid , and more miserable , indoors . 
'I cannot let you stay here , I said 'it is altogether impossible . 
At this idea Lorna laughed , as I could see by the moonlight and then she said , 'You are right , John . 
I should only do more harm than good and of all things I hate fighting most , and disobedience next to it . 
Therefore I will go indoors , although I cannot go to bed . 
But promise me one thing , dearest John . 
You will keep yourself out of the way , now won't you , as much as you can , for my sake ? 'Of that you may be quite certain , Lorna . 
I will shoot them all through the hay ricks . 
'That is right , dear , she answered , never doubting but what I could do it 'and then they cannot see you , you know . 
But don't think of climbing that tree , John it is a great deal too dangerous . 
It is all very well for Gwenny she has no bones to break . 
'None worth breaking , you mean , I suppose . 
Very well I will not climb the tree , for I should defeat my own purpose , I fear being such a conspicuous object . 
Now go indoors , darling , without more words . 
The more you linger , the more I shall keep you . 
And thereupon I shouldered arms , and resolved to tramp till morning . 
For I was vexed at my own neglect , and that Lorna should have to right it . 
I could shutt dree on 'em from the bar of the gate , if so be I had your goon , young man . 
'There is no time to lose , Gwenny . 
Run to the house and fetch Master Stickles , and all the men while I stay here , and watch the rick yard . 
Perhaps I was wrong in heeding the ricks at such a time as that especially as only the clover was of much importance . 
But it seemed to me like a sort of triumph that they should be even able to boast of having fired our mow yard . 
Therefore I stood in a nick of the clover , whence we had cut some trusses , with my club in hand , and gun close by . 
The robbers rode into our yard as coolly as if they had been invited , having lifted the gate from the hinges first on account of its being fastened . 
Then they actually opened our stable doors , and turned our honest horses out , and put their own rogues in the place of them . 
At this my breath was quite taken away for we think so much of our horses . 
By this time I could see our troopers , waiting in the shadow of the house , round the corner from where the Doones were , and expecting the order to fire . 
But Jeremy Stickles very wisely kept them in readiness , until the enemy should advance upon them . 
'Two of you lazy fellows go , it was the deep voice of Carver Doone , 'and make us a light , to cut their throats by . 
Only one thing , once again . 
If any man touches Lorna , I will stab him where he stands . 
There are two other young damsels here , whom you may take away if you please . 
And the mother , I hear , is still comely . 
We have borne too long the insolence of these yokels . 
Kill every man , and every child , and burn the cursed place down . 
The aim was sure as death itself . 
Carver Doone would breathe no more . 
And yet will you believe me ? I could not pull the trigger . 
Therefore I dropped my carbine , and grasped again my club , which seemed a more straight forward implement . 
Presently two young men came towards me , bearing brands of resined hemp , kindled from Carver's lamp . 
The foremost of them set his torch to the rick within a yard of me , and smoke concealing me from him . 
With a roar of pain he fell on the ground , and his torch dropped there , and singed him . 
The other man stood amazed at this , not having yet gained sight of me till I caught his firebrand from his hand , and struck it into his countenance . 
, a blaze of fire lit up the house , and brown smoke hung around it . 
Six of our men had let go at the Doones , by Jeremy Stickles' order , as the villains came swaggering down in the moonlight ready for rape or murder . 
Two of them fell , and the rest hung back , to think at their leisure what this was . 
They were not used to this sort of thing it was neither just nor courteous . 
None had ever dared , I suppose , to look at him in that way and he saw that he had met his equal , or perhaps his master . 
And then he tried a pistol at me , but I was too quick for him . 
'Now , Carver Doone , take warning , I said to him , very soberly 'you have shown yourself a fool by your contempt of me . 
I may not be your match in craft but I am in manhood . 
You are a despicable villain . 
Lie low in your native muck . 
, unless he were a wrestler . 
, and strode away with a train of curses enough to poison the light of the moon . 
We gained six very good horses , by this attempted rapine , as well as two young prisoners , whom I had smitten by the clover rick . 
, I for my part was most thankful that I had not killed . 
of over confidence and carelessness . 
I scarcely know who made the greatest fuss about my little wound , mother , or Annie , or Lorna . 
I was heartily ashamed to be so treated like a milksop but most unluckily it had been impossible to hide it . 
For the ball had cut along my temple , just above the eyebrow and being fired so near at hand , the powder too had scarred me . 
, that I was the luckiest of all mortals in having a mother , and a sister , and a sweetheart , to make much of me . 
For his part , he said , he was just as well off in not having any to care for him . 
For now he might go and get shot , or stabbed , or knocked on the head , at his pleasure , without any one being offended . 
I made bold , upon this , to ask him what was become of his wife for I had heard him speak of having one . 
He said that he neither knew nor cared and perhaps I should be like him some day . 
That Lorna should hear such sentiments was very grievous to me . 
But she looked at me with a smile , which proved her contempt for all such ideas and lest anything still more unfit might be said , I dismissed the question . 
But Master Stickles told me afterwards , when there was no one with us , to have no faith in any woman , whatever she might seem to be . 
Now I did not like to hear such things and to me they appeared to be insolent , as well as narrow minded . 
And upon the whole , I prefer them much to the people of my own sex , as goodness of heart is more important than to show good reason for having it . 
A woman whom I never struck , never wronged in any way , never even let her know that I like another better . 
Come , let's have another onion . 
Master Stickles's view of the matter was so entirely unromantic , that I scarcely wondered at Mistress Stickles for having run away from him to an adventurous moss trooper . 
, the love itself is apt to languish unless its bloom be well replaced by the budding hopes of children . 
Now Master Stickles neither had , nor wished to have , any children . 
However , his foresight proved too correct for both those poor fellows were executed , soon after the next assizes . 
Lorna had done her very best to earn another chance for them even going down on her knees to that common Jeremy , and pleading with great tears for them . 
However , although much moved by her , he vowed that he durst do nothing else . 
For before any surgeon could arrive , they were off with a well armed escort . 
Therefore it was resolved to wait and keep a watch upon the valley , and let the floods go down again . 
was to marry Lorna as soon as might be , if she had no objection , and then to work the farm so well , as to nourish all our family . 
And I might have said the happier , except for the sorrow which we felt at the failures among our neighbours . 
And another difficulty was , that as we had all been Protestants from the time of Queen Elizabeth , the maiden must be converted first , and taught to hate all Papists . 
Now Lorna had not the smallest idea of ever being converted . 
However , Lorna was not troubled partly because of her natural dignity and gentleness partly because she never dreamed that the people were come to look at her . 
I touched her hand , and she pressed mine and we felt that we were close together , and God saw no harm in it . 
, he scarcely knew what he was doing , without the clerk to help him . 
a little annoyed and vexed with things . 
, a head dress with a feather never seen before upon Exmoor , to the best of every one's knowledge . 
with her former timid glance which I knew so well , and which had first enslaved me . 
Never fear , darling Lorna , it is nothing about you . 
It is something about our John , I am sure for she never worries herself very much about anybody but him . 
And here Annie made a look at me , such as I had had five hundred of . 
'You keep your opinions to yourself , I replied because I knew the dear , and her little bits of jealousy 'it happens that you are quite wrong , this time . 
Lorna , come with me , my darling . 
My angel did come , with a sigh , and then with a smile , when we were alone but without any unangelic attempt at snapping her sweet white fingers . 
, should be entirely lost to us . 
'It is our duty , my dear children , she said more than once about it , 'to forgive and forget , as freely as we hope to have it done to us . 
If dear little Ruth has not behaved quite as we might have expected , great allowance should be made for a girl with so much money . 
Ruth can be very useful to us in a number of little ways and I consider it quite a duty to pardon her freak of petulance . 
All this , however , I kept to myself , intending to trust Ruth Huckaback , and no one else in the matter . 
Now though it is part of my life to heed , it is no part of my tale to tell , how the wheat was coming on . 
, will say , 'Tush ! What is his wheat to us ? We are not wheat we are human beings and all we care for is human doings . 
This may be very good argument , and in the main , I believe that it is so . 
And more than my own clothes to me , ay , and as much as my own skin , are the works of nature round about , whereof a man is the smallest . 
because thereafter all others know how much of the milk be had and he can suck no longer and they value him accordingly , for the nourishment he is to them . 
Even as when we keep a roaster of the sucking pigs , we choose , and praise at table most , the favourite of its mother . 
Fifty times have I seen this , and smiled , and praised our people's taste , and offered them more of the vitals . 
, when all the while I ought to be riding as hard as I can to Dulverton . 
These things grow upon a man if once he stops to notice them . 
It wanted yet two hours to noon , when I came to Master Huckaback's door , and struck the panels smartly . 
Ruth herself came and let me in , blushing very heartily for which colour I praised her health , and my praises heightened it . 
That little thing had lovely eyes , and could be trusted thoroughly . 
I do like an obstinate little woman , when she is sure that she is right . 
And therewith I bussed her well , and put my arm around her waist , being so terribly restricted in the matter of Lorna , and knowing the use of practice . 
Not that I had any warmth all that was darling Lorna's only out of pure gallantry , and my knowledge of London fashions . 
Only my mother had told me , when the girls were out of the way , to do all I could to please darling Ruth , and I had gone about it accordingly . 
what was become of Uncle Ben , and how it was that we never heard anything of or from him now . 
She replied that she hardly knew what to make of her grandfather's manner of carrying on , for the last half year or more . 
He was apt to leave his home , she said , at any hour of the day or night going none knew whither , and returning no one might say when . 
But the worst of all things was , as she confessed with tears in her eyes , that the poor old gentleman had something weighing heavily on his mind . 
And the business he used to take such pride in is now left almost entirely to the foreman , and to me . 
It must depend , I suppose , upon dear grandfather's pleasure about me . 
'It must rather depend , said I , though having no business to say it , 'upon your own good pleasure , Ruth for all the world will pay court to you . 
'That is the very thing which I never could endure . 
I have begged dear grandfather to leave no chance of that . 
But I cannot make him believe it . 
Only think how strange , Cousin Ridd , I cannot make him believe it . 
'It is not strange at all , I answered 'considering how he values money . 
Neither would any one else believe you , except by looking into your true , and very pretty eyes , dear . 
What I had always liked in Ruth , was the calm , straightforward gaze , and beauty of her large brown eyes . 
to her own , for truth and light , but never for depth and softness . 
But now the little maiden dropped them , and turned away , without reply . 
'I will go and see to my horse , I said 'the boy that has taken him seemed surprised at his having no horns on his forehead . 
Perhaps he will lead him into the shop , and feed him upon broadcloth . 
But you must be back in half an hour , at the latest , Cousin Ridd . 
You see I remember what you are when once you get among horses , or cows , or things of that sort . 
'Things of that sort ! Well done , Ruth ! One would think you were quite a Cockney . 
Uncle Reuben did not come home to his dinner and his granddaughter said she had strictest orders never to expect him . 
Therefore we had none to dine with us , except the foreman of the shop , a worthy man , named Thomas Cockram , fifty years of age or so . 
He seemed to me to have strong intentions of his own about little Ruth , and on that account to regard me with a wholly undue malevolence . 
And hereupon , I spread my chest , to show him an example . 
Ruth could not keep her countenance but I saw that she thought it wrong of me and would scold me , if ever I gave her the chance of taking those little liberties . 
However , he deserved it all , according to my young ideas , for his great impertinence in aiming at my cousin . 
But what I said was far less grievous to a man of honest mind than little Ruth's own behaviour . 
Thomas Cockram winked at me , with the worst of his two wrong eyes as much as to say , 'I understand it but I cannot help myself . 
Only you look out , if ever' and before he had finished winking , the door was shut behind him . 
Then Ruth said to me in the simplest manner , 'You have ridden far today , Cousin Ridd and have far to ride to get home again . 
Suppose we try wine of Oporto . 
The good little creature went and fetched a black bottle of an ancient cast , covered with dust and cobwebs . 
These I was anxious to shake aside and indeed I thought that the wine would be better for being roused up a little . 
Ruth , however , would not hear a single word to that purport and seeing that she knew more about it , I left her to manage it . 
And the result was very fine indeed , to wit , a sparkling rosy liquor , dancing with little flakes of light , and scented like new violets . 
Now it is useless to say no . 
These bottles hold almost nothing . 
Dear grandfather will not come home , I fear , until long after you are gone . 
What will Aunt Ridd think of me , I am sure ? You are all so dreadfully hospitable . 
Now not another no , Cousin Ridd . 
We must have another bottle . 
'Well , must is must , I answered , with a certain resignation . 
I thought that you would eat me . 
But I have come to know , since then , how very kind and good you are . 
I mean to be married as soon as I can . 
Will you come and help us ? 'To be sure I will , Cousin Ridd unless , unless , dear grandfather cannot spare me from the business . 
She went away and her breast was heaving , like a rick of under carried hay . 
And she stood at the window long , trying to make yawns of sighs . 
For my part , I knew not what to do . 
And yet I could think about it , as I never could with Lorna with whom I was always in a whirl , from the power of my love . 
So I thought some time about it and perceived that it was the manliest way , just to tell her everything except that I feared she liked me . 
But it seemed to me unaccountable that she did not even ask the name of my intended wife . 
Perhaps she thought that it must be Sally or perhaps she feared to trust her voice . 
'Come and sit by me , dear Ruth and listen to a long , long story , how things have come about with me . 
But I would rather stay where I am , and have the air or rather be able to watch for dear grandfather coming home . 
He is so kind and good to me . 
And many other little things I mentioned , which there is no need for me again to dwell upon . 
Ruth heard it all without a word , and without once looking at me and only by her attitude could I guess that she was weeping . 
Now how I have been neglecting you ! I am quite ashamed of myself for thinking only of grandfather and it makes me so low spirited . 
You have told me a very nice romance , and I have never even helped you to a glass of wine . 
Here , pour it for yourself , dear cousin I shall be back again directly . 
Only her hands were cold and trembling and she made me help myself . 
, now discovered , before I left , that she must not think of doing so . 
Perhaps she was right in deciding thus at any rate it had now become improper for me to press her . 
And yet I now desired tenfold that she should consent to come , thinking that Lorna herself would work the speediest cure of her passing whim . 
For such , I tried to persuade myself , was the nature of Ruth's regard for me and upon looking back I could not charge myself with any misconduct towards the little maiden . 
, and being so engrossed with my own love , I had scarcely ever thought of her . 
And the maiden would never have thought of me , except as a clumsy yokel , but for my mother's and sister's meddling , and their wily suggestions . 
I believe they had told the little soul that I was deeply in love with her although they both stoutly denied it . 
'In the name of Moses , I inquired , having picked up that phrase at Dulverton 'what are you at about me now ? There is no peace for a quiet fellow . 
'It is nothing we are at , she answered 'neither may you make light of it . 
It is something very important about Mistress Lorna Doone . 
'Let us have it at once , I cried 'I can bear anything about Lorna , except that she does not care for me . 
'It has nothing to do with that , John . 
And I am quite sure that you never need fear anything of that sort . 
She perfectly wearies me sometimes , although her voice is so soft and sweet , about your endless perfections . 
'Bless her little heart ! I said 'the subject is inexhaustible . 
'No doubt replied Lizzie , in the driest manner 'especially to your sisters . 
However this is no time to joke . 
I fear you will get the worst of it , John . 
He never can comb it , that is quite certain , with any comb yet invented . 
'Then you go and offer your services . 
There are few things you cannot scarify . 
I know the man from your description , although I have never seen him . 
Now where is my Lorna ? 'Your Lorna is with Annie , having a good cry , I believe and Annie too glad to second her . 
She knows that this great man is here , and knows that he wants to see her . 
But she begged to defer the interview , until dear John's return . 
'What a nasty way you have of telling the very commonest piece of news ! I said , on purpose to pay her out . 
'What man will ever fancy you , you unlucky little snapper ? Now , no more nursery talk for me . 
I will go and settle this business . 
You had better go and dress your dolls if you can give them clothes unpoisoned . 
Hereupon Lizzie burst into a perfect roar of tears feeling that she had the worst of it . 
And I took her up , and begged her pardon although she scarcely deserved it for she knew that I was out of luck , and she might have spared her satire . 
I was almost sure that the man who was come must be the Counsellor himself of whom I felt much keener fear than of his son Carver . 
was encouraged to deliver it . 
My dear mother stood gazing at him , spell bound by his eloquence , and only hoping that he would stop . 
He was shaking his hair upon his shoulders , in the power of his words , and his wrath at some little thing , which he declared to be quite illegal . 
Then I ventured to show myself , in the flesh , before him although he feigned not to see me but he advanced with zeal to Lorna holding out both hands at once . 
'My darling child , my dearest niece how wonderfully well you look ! Mistress Ridd , I give you credit . 
This is the country of good things . 
I never would have believed our Queen could have looked so royal . 
Surely of all virtues , hospitality is the finest , and the most romantic . 
Dearest Lorna , kiss your uncle it is quite a privilege . 
'Perhaps it is to you , sir , said Lorna , who could never quite check her sense of oddity 'but I fear that you have smoked tobacco , which spoils reciprocity . 
'You are right , my child . 
How keen your scent is ! It is always so with us . 
Your grandfather was noted for his olfactory powers . 
'With your good leave sir , I broke in , 'Master Milton could never have written so sweet and simple a line as that . 
It is one of the great Shakespeare . 
'Woe is me for my neglect ! said the Counsellor , bowing airily 'this must be your son , Mistress Ridd , the great John , the wrestler . 
Here the old villain bowed to my mother and she blushed , and made another curtsey , and really did look very nice . 
, I can hardly be wrong in assuming that this young armiger must be the too attractive cynosure to our poor little maiden . 
And for my part , she is welcome to him . 
In early youth , I may have thought so , and been full of that little pride . 
'Never mind , madam I will be slower . 
But your son's intelligence is so quick 'I see , sir you thought that mine must be . 
But no it all comes from his father , sir . 
His father was that quick and clever 'Ah , I can well suppose it , madam . 
And a credit he is to both of you . 
Her father was the eldest son of Sir Ensor Doone and I happened to be the second son and as young maidens cannot be baronets , I suppose I am Sir Counsellor . 
'Good , madam ! I may look upon that as your sanction and approval and the College of Heralds shall hear of it . 
And in return , as Lorna's guardian , I give my full and ready consent to her marriage with your son , madam . 
'Madam , that is a great sentiment . 
He has always been brought up so honest 'Hem ! that makes a difference . 
A decided disqualification for domestic life among the Doones . 
But , surely , he might get over those prejudices , madam ? 'Oh no , sir ! he never can he never can indeed . 
When he was only that high , sir , he could not steal even an apple , when some wicked boys tried to mislead him . 
'Ah , replied the Counsellor , shaking his white head gravely 'then I greatly fear that his case is quite incurable . 
I have known such cases violent prejudice , bred entirely of education , and anti economical to the last degree . 
And when it is so , it is desperate no man , after imbibing ideas of that sort , can in any way be useful . 
'Oh yes , sir , John is very useful . 
He can do as much work as three other men and you should see him load a sledd , sir . 
'I was speaking , madam , of higher usefulness , power of the brain and heart . 
The main thing for us upon earth is to take a large view of things . 
'For what am I to thank you , uncle ? 'My dear niece , I have told you . 
For removing the heaviest obstacle , which to a mind so well regulated could possibly have existed , between your dutiful self and the object of your affections . 
'What fact do you mean , sir ? Is it one that I ought to know ? 'In my opinion it is , good niece . 
It forms , to my mind , so fine a basis for the invariable harmony of the matrimonial state . 
And perfect justice meted out mutual goodwill resulting , from the sense of reciprocity . 
'I do not understand you , sir . 
Why can you not say what you mean , at once ? 'My dear child , I prolong your suspense . 
Curiosity is the most powerful of all feminine instincts and therefore the most delightful , when not prematurely satisfied . 
However , if you must have my strong realities , here they are . 
Your father slew dear John's father , and dear John's father slew yours . 
Having said thus much , the Counsellor leaned back upon his chair , and shaded his calm white bearded eyes from the rays of our tallow candles . 
He was a man who liked to look , rather than to be looked at . 
But Lorna came to me for aid and I went up to Lorna and mother looked at both of us . 
, I took my darling round the waist , and led her up to the Counsellor while she tried to bear it bravely yet must lean on me , or did . 
'you know right well , Sir Counsellor , that Sir Ensor Doone gave approval . 
I cannot tell what made me think of this but so it came upon me . 
'Approval to what , good rustic John ? To the slaughter so reciprocal ? 'No , sir , not to that even if it ever happened which I do not believe . 
But to the love betwixt me and Lorna which your story shall not break , without more evidence than your word . 
And even so , shall never break if Lorna thinks as I do . 
The maiden gave me a little touch , as much as to say , 'You are right , darling give it to him , again , like that . 
However , I held my peace , well knowing that too many words do mischief . 
Then mother looked at me with wonder , being herself too amazed to speak and the Counsellor looked , with great wrath in his eyes , which he tried to keep from burning . 
Up to that time none heard of harm except of taking a purse , maybe , or cutting a strange sheep's throat . 
And the poor folk who did this were hanged , with some benefit of clergy . 
But ever since the Doones came first , we are used to anything . 
'Young people of the present age , said the Counsellor severely , 'have no right feeling of any sort , upon the simplest matter . 
Lorna Doone , stand forth from contact with that heir of parricide and state in your own mellifluous voice , whether you regard this slaughter as a pleasant trifle . 
You think it a happy basis for our future concord . 
I do not quite think that , my uncle neither do I quite believe that a word of it is true . 
In our happy valley , nine tenths of what is said is false and you were always wont to argue that true and false are but a blind turned upon a pivot . 
Without any failure of respect for your character , good uncle , I decline politely to believe a word of what you have told me . 
And even if it were proved to me , all I can say is this , if my John will have me , I am his for ever . 
This long speech was too much for her she had overrated her strength about it , and the sustenance of irony . 
So at last she fell into my arms , which had long been waiting for her and there she lay with no other sound , except a gurgling in her throat . 
Meanwhile the Counsellor stood back , and seemed a little sorry although of course it was not in his power to be at all ashamed of himself . 
You and John were made by God and meant for one another , whatever falls between you . 
Little lamb , look up and speak here is your own John and I and the devil take the Counsellor . 
I was amazed at mother's words , being so unlike her while I loved her all the more because she forgot herself so . 
that something was astir , belonging to the world of women , yet foreign to the eyes of men . 
but what these women will fly out . 
Saying this , he looked at his puff of smoke as if it contained more reason . 
'Not at all , sir , I answered 'not at all , your worship . 
Let me mix you another glass . 
We rarely have a great gentleman by the side of our embers and oven . 
could not wait upon you this evening and I fear they have done it with dripping instead , and in a pan with the bottom burned . 
But old Betty quite loses her head sometimes , by dint of over scolding . 
, but through your simple way of taking me , as a man to be believed combined with the comfort of this place , and the choice tobacco and cordials . 
Of all the things that please and lead us into happy sleep at night , the first and chiefest is to think that we have pleased a visitor . 
'Then , John , thou hast deserved good sleep for I am not pleased easily . 
But although our family is not so high now as it hath been , I have enough of the gentleman left to be pleased when good people try me . 
My father , Sir Ensor , was better than I in this great element of birth , and my son Carver is far worse . 
Aetas parentum , what is it , my boy ? I hear that you have been at a grammar school . 
'So I have , your worship , and at a very good one but I only got far enough to make more tail than head of Latin . 
'Let that pass , said the Counsellor 'John , thou art all the wiser . 
And the old man shook his hoary locks , as if Latin had been his ruin . 
I looked at him sadly , and wondered whether it might have so ruined me , but for God's mercy in stopping it . 
followed our Annie into the dairy , to see how we managed the clotted cream , of which he had eaten a basinful . 
And thereupon they talked a little and Annie thought him a fine old gentleman , and a very just one for he had nobly condemned the people who spoke against Tom Faggus . 
But coral will not do , my child , neither will anything coloured . 
The beads must be of plain common glass but the brighter they are the better . 
'Then I know the very thing , cried Annie 'as bright as bright can be , and without any colour in it , except in the sun or candle light . 
Dearest Lorna has the very thing , a necklace of some old glass beads , or I think they called them jewels she will be too glad to lend it to us . 
I will go for it , in a moment . 
'My dear , it cannot be half so bright as your own pretty eyes . 
Bring it here , without a word if you know where she keeps it . 
'To be sure I do , she answered 'John used to keep it for her . 
It will help to raise the cream and you may take my word for it , young maiden , none can do good in this world , without in turn receiving it . 
could scarce forbear from kissing him , yet feared to take the liberty . 
Therefore , she only ran away to fetch my Lorna's necklace . 
, might form designs against my health , to win the bauble from me . 
'Oh , that old thing ! said the gentleman , in a tone of some contempt 'I remember that old thing well enough . 
However , for want of a better , no doubt it will answer our purpose . 
Three times three , I pass it over . 
'Oh , sir , it is too horrible . 
Whether the old man wished to scare her , or whether he was trying not to laugh , is more than I can tell you . 
By that time the charm will have done its work the pan will be cream to the bottom and you will bless me for a secret which will make your fortune . 
Put the bauble under this pannikin which none must lift for a day and a night . 
'Go to your room , without so much as a single word to any one . 
Bolt yourself in , and for three hours now , read the Lord's Prayer backwards . 
Meanwhile the Counsellor was gone . 
, that when he was gone , dear mother fell back on the chair which he had used last night , as if it would teach her the graces . 
And for more than an hour she made believe not to know what there was for dinner . 
'You had better marry him , madam , said I , coming in very sternly though I knew I ought not to say it 'he can repay your adoration . 
He has stolen a hundred thousand pounds . 
'John , cried my mother , 'you are mad ! And yet she turned as pale as death for women are so quick at turning and she inkled what it was . 
'Of course I am , mother mad about the marvels of Sir Galahad . 
He has gone off with my Lorna's necklace . 
Fifty farms like ours can never make it good to Lorna . 
But Lorna came up to me softly , as a woman should always come and she laid one hand upon my shoulder and she only looked at me . 
She even seemed to fear to look , and dropped her eyes , and sighed at me . 
Without a word , I knew by that , how I must have looked like Satan and the evil spirit left my heart when she had made me think of it . 
I saw that she was right though how she knew it is beyond me and I asked her just to go in front , and bring my mother round a little . 
For I must let my passion pass it may drop its weapons quickly but it cannot come and go , before a man has time to think . 
And to fret will kill me , mother . 
They have always told me so . 
Poor mother bent on Lorna's shoulder , without thought of attitude , and laid her cheek on Lorna's breast , and sobbed till Lizzie was jealous , and came with two pocket handkerchiefs . 
than it had been since the day on which Tom Faggus discovered the value of that blessed and cursed necklace . 
None could say that I wanted Lorna for her money now . 
And perhaps the Doones would let me have her now that her property was gone . 
But who shall tell of Annie's grief ? The poor little thing would have staked her life upon finding the trinket , in all its beauty , lying under the pannikin . 
She proudly challenged me to lift it which I had done , long ere that , of course if only I would take the risk of the spell for my incredulity . 
I told her not to talk of spells , until she could spell a word backwards and then to look into the pan where the charmed cream should be . 
My love , who was as fond of her , as if she had known her for fifty years , hereupon ran up and caught her , and abused all diamonds . 
I will dwell no more upon Annie's grief , because we felt it all so much . 
But I could not help telling her , if she wanted a witch , to seek good Mother Melldrum , a legitimate performer . 
came back , with all equipment ready for the grand attack . 
Now the Doones knew , quite as well as we did , that this attack was threatening and that but for the wonderful weather it would have been made long ago . 
, were sure to meet with a good resistance , and due preparation . 
Jeremy Stickles laughed heartily about Annie's new manner of charming the cream but he looked very grave at the loss of the jewels , so soon as he knew their value . 
'My son , he exclaimed , 'this is very heavy . 
It will go ill with all of you to make good this loss , as I fear that you will have to do . 
'What ! cried I , with my blood running cold . 
'It would cut me to the heart , he answered , laying his hand on mine , 'to hear of such a deadly blow to you and your good mother . 
At any rate , a Ridd was with him throughout all his hiding time . 
Keep it to yourself , my boy , and try to think but little of it . 
After all , I may be wrong at any rate , least said best mended . 
Let me talk , and know the worst of it . 
'Very well , replied Master Stickles , seeing that both the doors were closed 'I thought that nothing could move you , John or I never would have told you . 
Likely enough I am quite wrong and God send that I be so . 
But what I guessed at some time back seems more than a guess , now that you have told me about these wondrous jewels . 
Now will you keep , as close as death , every word I tell you ? 'By the honour of a man , I will . 
Until you yourself release me . 
'That is quite enough , John . 
From you I want no oath which , according to my experience , tempts a man to lie the more , by making it more important . 
I know you now too well to swear you , though I have the power . 
Now , my lad , what I have to say will scare your mind in one way , and ease it in another . 
I think that you have been hard pressed I can read you like a book , John by something which that old villain said , before he stole the necklace . 
'It would have done so , Jeremy Stickles , if I could once have believed it . 
And even without much belief , it is so against our manners , that it makes me miserable . 
Now look at it in Lorna's way as well as in your own way . 
How one sided all men are ! 'I may look at it in fifty ways , and yet no good will come of it . 
But to you in secret , I am not ashamed to say that a woman may look over this easier than a man may . 
'Because her nature is larger , my son , when she truly loves although her mind be smaller . 
, to search this neighbourhood narrowly , and learn everything about everybody . 
Now the neighbourhood itself is queer and people have different ways of thinking from what we are used to in London . 
That this is so , you may take my word for I know the law pretty thoroughly . 
'Very well I need not say any more about that , for I have shown that you are all quite wrong . 
It also explains your toleration of these outlaw Doones so long . 
'Now , Stickles , I cried , 'this is too bad ! he was delivering himself so grandly . 
However , if you wish to hear my story , no more interruptions . 
Well , I was a little weary perhaps , having been plagued at Dulverton with the grossness of the people . 
'turned suddenly down from the higher land to the very brink of the sea and rounding a little jut of cliff , I met the roar of the breakers . 
My horse was scared , and leaped aside for a northerly wind was piping , and driving hunks of foam across , as children scatter snow balls . 
But he only sank to his fetlocks in the dry sand , piled with pop weed and I tried to make him face the waves and then I looked about me . 
'Watchett town was not to be seen , on account of a little foreland , a mile or more upon my course , and standing to the right of me . 
, for horse and man to get along , although the tide was running high with a northerly gale to back it . 
'You know that I am not luxurious , neither in any way given to the common lusts of the flesh , John . 
Air and light are good for people who have any lack of them and if a man once talks about them , 'tis enough to prove his need of them . 
'Seeing therefore that this same inn had four windows , and no more , I thought to myself how snug it was , and how beautiful I could sleep there . 
Some one came and peeped at me through the lattice overhead , which was full of bulls' eyes and then the bolt was drawn back , and a woman met me very courteously . 
A dark and foreign looking woman , very hot of blood , I doubt , but not altogether a bad one . 
And she waited for me to speak first , which an Englishwoman would not have done . 
Yes , sir , you can rest and welcome . 
But of food , I fear , there is but little , unless of the common order . 
Our fishers would have drawn the nets , but the waves were violent . 
However , we have what you call it ? I never can remember , it is so hard to say the flesh of the hog salted . 
Bacon ! said I what can be better ? And half dozen of eggs with it , and a quart of fresh drawn ale . 
You make me rage with hunger , madam . 
In that way I shall astonish you even more than by my intellect . 
'She laughed aloud , and swung her shoulders , as your natives cannot do and then she called a little maid to lead my horse to stable . 
However , I preferred to see that matter done myself , and told her to send the little maid for the frying pan and the egg box . 
my ready and permanent appetite , and appreciation of garlic I leave you to decide , John but perhaps all three combined to recommend me to the graces of my charming hostess . 
hers had ceased to cause distress , for I cannot say how many years . 
She said that it was the climate for even upon that subject she requested my opinion and I answered , if there be a change , let madam blame the seasons . 
Many and many a day , she had longed for some one both skilful and trustworthy , most of all for some one bearing warrant from a court of justice . 
But the magistrates of the neighbourhood would have nothing to say to her , declaring that she was a crack brained woman , and a wicked , and even a foreign one . 
It was so the very night when first her evil fortune brought her there and so no doubt it would be , long after it had killed her . 
But if I wished to know the reason of her being there , she would tell me in few words , which I will repeat as briefly . 
'By birth she was an Italian , from the mountains of Apulia , who had gone to Rome to seek her fortunes , after being badly treated in some love affair . 
Her Christian name was Benita as for her surname , that could make no difference to any one . 
Being a quick and active girl , and resolved to work down her troubles , she found employment in a large hotel and rising gradually , began to send money to her parents . 
It was not , however , their fervent longing for the Holy Father which had brought them to St . 
Peter's roof but rather their own bad luck in making their home too hot to hold them . 
For although in the main good Catholics , and pleasant receivers of anything , one of their number had given offence , by the folly of trying to think for himself . 
It was something about dividing land Benita knew not what it was . 
This made her sigh at the starting time and after that what could you hope for ? 'However , at first all things went well . 
My Lord was as gay as gay could be and never would come inside the carriage , when a decent horse could be got to ride . 
He would gallop in front , at a reckless pace , without a weapon of any kind , delighted with the pure blue air , and throwing his heart around him . 
Benita had never seen any man so admirable , and so childish . 
As innocent as an infant and not only contented , but noisily happy with anything . 
Only other people must share his joy and the shadow of sorrow scattered it , though it were but the shade of poverty . 
'Here Benita wept a little and I liked her none the less , and believed her ten times more in virtue of a tear or two . 
, and Benita began to think that omens must not be relied upon . 
But suddenly her faith in omens was confirmed for ever . 
He kissed his hand to his wife , and said that he would save her the trouble of coming . 
For those two were so one in one , that they could make each other know whatever he or she had felt . 
And so my Lord went round the corner , with a fine young horse leaping up at the steps . 
scarcely able to believe that all her fright was not a dream . 
She would not wear a piece or shape of any mourning clothes she would not have a person cry , or any sorrow among us . 
She simply disbelieved the thing , and trusted God to right it . 
The Protestants , who have no faith , cannot understand this feeling . 
Enough that so it was and so my Lady went to heaven . 
And the strongest plea of all was this , that now she bore another hope of repeating her husband's virtues . 
So at the end of October , when wolves came down to the farm lands , the little English family went home towards their England . 
when he heard of his new infant . 
, the party set forth from Exeter , and lay the first night at Bampton . 
'On the following morn they started bravely , with earnest hope of arriving at their journey's end by daylight . 
But her ladyship would not hear of it she must be home that night , she said , and her husband would be waiting . 
mounted upon the outside and upon the horses three Exeter postilions . 
Much had been said at Dulverton , and even back at Bampton , about some great freebooters , to whom all Exmoor owed suit and service , and paid them very punctually . 
Both the serving men were scared , even over their ale , by this . 
But the lady only said , Drive on I know a little of highwaymen they never rob a lady . 
However , they went on till dark as well as might be expected . 
they met their fate , and could not fly it . 
It showed them also a troop of horsemen , waiting under a rock hard by , and ready to dash upon them . 
Meanwhile the drivers drove into the sea , till the leading horses were swimming . 
'But before the waves came into the coach , a score of fierce men were round it . 
They cursed the postilions for mad cowards , and cut the traces , and seized the wheel horses , all wild with dismay in the wet and the dark . 
'What followed Benita knew not , as one might well suppose , herself being stunned by a blow on the head , beside being palsied with terror . 
Each man whispered his fellow to go , but each hung back himself , and muttered that it was too awful to meddle with . 
Surely these men are the best . 
'Before the light of the morning came along the tide to Watchett my Lady had met her husband . 
came over swiftly upon her . 
, lies in Watchett little churchyard , with son and heir at her right hand , and a little babe , of sex unknown , sleeping on her bosom . 
'This is a miserable tale , said Jeremy Stickles brightly 'hand me over the schnapps , my boy . 
What fools we are to spoil our eyes for other people's troubles ! Enough of our own to keep them clean , although we all were chimney sweeps . 
There is nothing like good hollands , when a man becomes too sensitive . 
Restore the action of the glands that is my rule , after weeping . 
Let me make you another , John . 
You are quite low spirited . 
Benita stayed in that blessed place , because she could not get away from it . 
The Doones if Doones indeed they were , about which you of course know best took every stiver out of the carriage wet or dry they took it . 
And Benita could never get her wages for the whole affair is in Chancery , and they have appointed a receiver . 
'Whew ! said I , knowing something of London , and sorry for Benita's chance . 
There they are , and have three children and there you may go and visit them . 
'I understand all that , Jeremy , though you do tell things too quickly , and I would rather have John Fry's style for he leaves one time for his words to melt . 
Now for my second question . 
'If I knew , I should not ask you . 
Jeremy Stickles , do try to be neither conceited nor thick headed . 
'I will when you are neither , answered Master Jeremy 'but you occupy all the room , John . 
No one else can get in with you there . 
'Very well then , let me out . 
Take me down in both ways . 
'If ever you were taken down you must have your double joints ready now . 
And yet in other ways you will be as proud and set up as Lucifer . 
As certain sure as I stand here , that little maid is Lorna Doone . 
CHAPTER LIV MUTUAL DISCOMFITURE It must not be supposed that I was altogether so thick headed as Jeremy would have made me out . 
who in simple heart approached me , with no gauge of intellect . 
, why , it naturally happens , that we knuckle under , with an ounce of indignation . 
Then I remembered my own mad shout of boyish indignation , and marvelled at the strange long way by which the events of life come round . 
Not that she would give me up that I never dreamed of . 
But that others would interfere or indeed I myself might find it only honest to relinquish her . 
That last thought was a dreadful blow , and took my breath away from me . 
It would have taken you fifty years to put two and two together so , as I did , like a clap of thunder . 
Ah , God has given some men brains and others have good farms and money , and a certain skill in the lower beasts . 
Each must use his special talent . 
You work your farm I work my brains . 
In the end , my lad , I shall beat you . 
'Not a whit , my son . 
Two men always thresh better than one . 
And here I have you bound to use your flail , one two , with mine , and yet in strictest honour bound not to bushel up , till I tell you . 
'So you shall , my boy , he answered , 'if we can only cheat those confounded knaves of Equity . 
You shall take the beauty , my son , and the elegance , and the love , and all that and , my boy , I will take the money . 
'Now , Jeremy , how if I refuse to keep this half as tight as wax . 
You bound me to no such partnership , before you told the story and I am not sure , by any means , of your right to do so afterwards . 
'Tush ! he replied 'I know you too well , to look for meanness in you . 
If from pure goodwill , John Ridd , and anxiety to relieve you , I made no condition precedent , you are not the man to take advantage , as a lawyer might . 
I do not even want your promise . 
, so surely will you be bound to me , until I do release you . 
Tush ! I know men well by this time a mere look of trust from one is worth another's ten thousand oaths . 
'Jeremy , you are right , I answered 'at least as regards the issue . 
Although perhaps you were not right in leading me into a bargain like this , without my own consent or knowledge . 
Nay , nay , the yellows shall go in front we attack on the Somerset side , I think . 
I from a hill will reconnoitre , as behoves a general , you shall stick behind a tree , if we can only find one big enough to hide you . 
'But when one comes to think of it , he continued , smiling at himself 'some provision should be made for even that unpleasant chance . 
I will leave the whole in writing , with orders to be opened , etc . 
Now no more of that , my boy a cigarro after schnapps , and go to meet my yellow boys . 
There was one good point about these men , that having no discipline at all , they made pretence to none whatever . 
Nay , rather they ridiculed the thing , as below men of any spirit . 
The Doones will make riddles of all of us . 
However , he had better hopes when the sons of Devon appeared , as they did in about an hour's time fine fellows , and eager to prove themselves . 
These had not discarded their officers , but marched in good obedience to them , and were quite prepared to fight the men of Somerset in addition to the Doones . 
And there was scarcely a man among them but could have trounced three of the yellow men , and would have done it gladly too , in honour of the red facings . 
Kill your sheep at famine prices , and knead your bread at a figure expressing the rigours of last winter . 
Let Annie make out the bill every day , and I at night will double it . 
You may take my word for it , Master John , this spring harvest shall bring you in three times as much as last autumn's did . 
If they cheated you in town , my lad , you shall have your change in the country . 
Take thy bill , and write down quickly . 
Be a man and a half which , according to her judgment , ruled beyond dispute the law of the present question . 
would have been worse than useless . 
Therefore I just told Annie to make the bills at a third below the current market prices so that the upshot would be fair . 
She promised me honestly that she would but with a twinkle in her bright blue eyes , which she must have caught from Tom Faggus . 
It always has appeared to me that stern and downright honesty upon money matters is a thing not understood of women be they as good as good can be . 
The yellows and the reds together numbered a hundred and twenty men , most of whom slept in our barns and stacks and besides these we had fifteen troopers of the regular army . 
The officers too of the Devonshire hand were such a torment to us , that we almost wished their men had dismissed them , as the Somerset troop had done with theirs . 
For we could not keep them out of our house , being all young men of good family , and therefore not to be met with bars . 
, mother and I were at wit's ends , on account of those blessed officers . 
I never got a wink of sleep they came whistling under the window so and directly I went out to chase them , there was nothing but a cat to see . 
, when Jeremy Stickles gave orders to march , and we began to try to do it . 
A good deal of boasting went overhead , as our men defiled along the lane and the thick broad patins of pennywort jutted out between the stones , ready to heal their bruises . 
The parish choir came part of the way , and the singing loft from Countisbury and they kept our soldiers' spirits up with some of the most pugnacious Psalms . 
Parson Bowden marched ahead , leading all our van and file , as against the Papists and promising to go with us , till we came to bullet distance . 
Therefore we marched bravely on , and children came to look at us . 
, if Stickles could only have found him and then I thought of little Ruth and without any fault on my part , my heart went down within me . 
However , they pulled their very best as all our horses always do and the culverins went up the hill , without smack of whip , or swearing . 
And here they were not to show themselves but keep their culverin in the woods , until their cousins of Devon appeared on the opposite parapet of the glen . 
And with this force went Jeremy Stickles , and with it went myself , as knowing more about the passage than any other stranger did . 
to strike down their meals before tasting them . 
And then Colonel Stickles asked me , whether I myself could stand fire he knew that I was not a coward , but this was a different question . 
I told him that I had been shot at , once or twice before but nevertheless disliked it , as much as almost anything . 
Upon that he said that I would do for that when a man got over the first blush of diffidence , he soon began to look upon it as a puff of destiny . 
Now we five and thirty men lay back a little way round the corner , in the hollow of the track which leads to the strong Doone gate . 
Our culverin was in amongst us , loaded now to the muzzle , and it was not comfortable to know that it might go off at any time . 
, some of us had horses there besides the horses who dragged the cannon , and now were sniffing at it . 
Therefore we shouted a loud hurrah , as for an easy victory . 
Several of our men rolled over , but the rest rushed on like Britons , Jeremy and myself in front , while we heard the horses plunging at the loaded gun behind us . 
'Now , my lads , cried Jeremy , 'one dash , and we are beyond them ! For he saw that the foe was overhead in the gallery of brushwood . 
Our men with a brave shout answered him , for his courage was fine example and we leaped in under the feet of the foe , before they could load their guns again . 
The trunk of the tree had been launched overhead , and crashed into the very midst of us . 
Our cannon was under it , so were two men , and a horse with his poor back broken . 
Another horse vainly struggled to rise , with his thigh bone smashed and protruding . 
Now I lost all presence of mind at this , for I loved both those good horses , and shouting for any to follow me , dashed headlong into the cavern . 
So utterly were my senses gone , and naught but strength remaining , that I caught up the cannon with both hands , and dashed it , breech first , at the doorway . 
The solid oak burst with the blow , and the gun stuck fast , like a builder's putlog . 
But here I looked round in vain for any one to come and follow up my success . 
The scanty light showed me no figure moving through the length of the tunnel behind me only a heavy groan or two went to my heart , and chilled it . 
So I hurried back to seek Jeremy , fearing that he must be smitten down . 
And so indeed I found him , as well as three other poor fellows , struck by the charge of the culverin , which had passed so close beside me . 
Two of the four were as dead as stones , and growing cold already , but Jeremy and the other could manage to groan , just now and then . 
So I turned my attention to them , and thought no more of fighting . 
And he looked up at me pitifully , being perhaps in a haze of thought , as a calf looks at a butcher . 
The shot had taken him in the mouth about that no doubt could be , for two of his teeth were in his beard , and one of his lips was wanting . 
I laid his shattered face on my breast , and nursed him , as a woman might . 
But he looked at me with a jerk at this and I saw that he wanted coolness . 
Zoomerzett and Devon a vighting and the Doones have drashed 'em both . 
Maister Ridd , even thee be drashed . 
We few , who yet remained of the force which was to have won the Doone gate , gazed at one another , like so many fools , and nothing more . 
For we still had some faint hopes of winning the day , and recovering our reputation , by means of what the other men might have done without us . 
And we could not understand at all how Devonshire and Somerset , being embarked in the same cause , should be fighting with one another . 
And in this opinion the women joined , being only too glad and thankful to see us home alive again . 
Now , this enterprise having failed so , I prefer not to dwell too long upon it only just to show the mischief which lay at the root of the failure . 
And this mischief was the vile jealousy betwixt red and yellow uniform . 
Now I try to speak impartially , belonging no more to Somerset than I do to Devonshire , living upon the borders , and born of either county . 
The tale was told me by one side first and then quite to a different tune by the other and then by both together , with very hot words of reviling . 
and a desire to fight it out again . 
Now I need not tell the rest of it , for the tale makes a man discontented . 
Enough that both sides waxed hotter and hotter with the fire of destruction . 
and fell on the rear of the Somerset men , and slew four beside their cannon . 
Then while the survivors ran away , the outlaws took the hot culverin , and rolled it down into their valley . 
This last word always seems to me to settle everything when said , because nobody understands it , and yet all can puzzle their neighbours . 
went home and our Somerset friends only stayed for two days more to backbite them . 
but from the pain and anguish caused by death , and wounds , and mourning . 
Jeremy Stickles lay and tossed , and thrust up his feet in agony , and bit with his lipless mouth the clothes , and was proud to see blood upon them . 
, how brave he was , and not the man to knock under in a hurry , and how he should have the victory yet and how well he looked , considering . 
These things cheered him a little now , and a little more next time and every time we went on so , he took it with less impatience . 
And after that he came round gently though never to the man he had been , and never to speak loud again . 
Master Stickles's authority , and manner of levying duties , had not been taken kindly by the people round our neighbourhood . 
these three , having their rights impugned , or even superseded , as they declared by the quartering of soldiers in their neighbourhood , united very kindly to oppose the King's Commissioner . 
do not believe to belong to themselves , if only they could get their rights . 
And it did seem natural enough that if the Doones were ousted , and a nice collection of prey remained , this should be parted among the people having ancient rights of plunder . 
Nevertheless , Master Jeremy knew that the soldiers would have the first of it , and the King what they could not carry . 
Jeremy's wound was a great misfortune , in more ways than one . 
that a certain difference was growing betwixt them both , and betwixt them and me . 
And so dear mother and darling Lorna now had been for many a day thinking , worrying , and wearing , about the matter between us . 
And the saddest and most hurtful thing was that neither could ask the other of the shadow falling between them . 
And so it went on , and deepened . 
In the next place Colonel Stickles's illness was a grievous thing to us , in that we had no one now to command the troopers . 
Ten of these were still alive , and so well approved to us , that they could never fancy aught , whether for dinner or supper , without its being forth coming . 
Even the wounded men ate nobly all except poor Jeremy , who was forced to have a young elder shoot , with the pith drawn , for to feed him . 
, I took up my boyish sport again , and pronged them a good jarful . 
Therefore , none of them could complain and yet they were not satisfied perhaps for want of complaining . 
all our house , and all our goods , ay , and our own precious lives , would and must be at the mercy of embittered enemies . 
Offerings poured in at the Doone gate , faster than Doones could away with them , and the sympathy both of Devon and Somerset became almost oppressive . 
But yet another cause arose , and this the strongest one of all , to prove the need of Stickles's aid , and calamity of his illness . 
And this came to our knowledge first , without much time to think of it . 
For two men appeared at our gate one day , stripped to their shirts , and void of horses , and looking very sorrowful . 
And this they were glad enough to do as men who have been maltreated almost always are . 
And it was not for us to contradict them , lest our victuals should go amiss . 
His Majesty's Court of Chancery , if that be what it called itself , gained scent of poor Lorna's life , and of all that might be made of it . 
and led them kindly down the valley , and told them then to serve their writ . 
We however comforted and cheered them so considerably , that , in gratitude , they showed their writs , to which they had stuck like leeches . 
And this last threatened and exhorted , and held out hopes of recompense , if she were rendered truly . 
My mother and I held consultation , over both these documents , with a mixture of some wrath and fear , and a fork of great sorrow to stir them . 
However , now the question was , how to act about these writs . 
And firstly of the first I said , 'We have rogues to deal with but try we not to rogue them . 
And then I said , 'Now we are bound to tell Lorna , and to serve her citation upon her , which these good fellows have given us . 
'Then go , and do it thyself , my son , mother replied with a mournful smile , misdoubting what the end might be . 
So I took the slip of brown parchment , and went to seek my darling . 
Lorna was in her favourite place , the little garden which she tended with such care and diligence . 
Seeing how the maiden loved it , and was happy there , I had laboured hard to fence it from the dangers of the wood . 
And here she had corrected me , with better taste , and sense of pleasure , and the joys of musing . 
Now partly with her own white hands , and partly with Gwenny's red ones , Lorna had made of this sunny spot a haven of beauty to dwell in . 
But so it shall for ever be . 
is nothing at the well spring but a bubble without reason . 
Feeling many things , but thinking without much to guide me , over the grass plats laid between , I went up to Lorna . 
She in a shower of damask roses , raised her eyes and looked at me . 
Oh , Lorna , if you can think that so quickly as you seem to have done , now you have every prospect and strong temptation to it . 
You are far , far above me in the world , and I have no right to claim you . 
Perhaps , when you have heard these tidings you will say , John Ridd , begone your life and mine are parted . 
You must never look at me with anything but pity now . 
If it be so , I will go . 
My life matters little to any one . 
Here the great bright tears arose but the maiden was too proud to sob . 
And she being of the same opinion , nothing was said between us . 
'Now , Lorna , said I , as she hung on my arm , willing to trust me anywhere , 'come to your little plant house , and hear my moving story . 
'It is of your poor mother , darling . 
Can you bear to hear it ? And yet I wondered why she did not say as much of her father . 
'Yes , I can bear anything . 
But although I cannot see her , and have long forgotten , I could not bear to hear ill of her . 
'There is no ill to hear , sweet child , except of evil done to her . 
Lorna , you are of an ill starred race . 
'You are not a Doone , my Lorna , for that , at least , I can answer though I know not what your name is . 
'And my father your father what I mean is 'Your father and mine never met one another . 
Your father was killed by an accident in the Pyrenean mountains , and your mother by the Doones or at least they caused her death , and carried you away from her . 
And yet she pressed my hand with hers , that I might tell her all of it . 
Thus my Lorna hearkened softly , almost without word or gesture , yet with sighs and glances telling , and the pressure of my hand , how each word was moving her . 
When at last my tale was done , she turned away , and wept bitterly for the sad fate of her parents . 
But to my surprise she spoke not even a word of wrath or rancour . 
She seemed to take it all as fate . 
'It can never matter now , when there are none to share it . 
'Dearest , I have you , she cried 'you , and only you , love . 
Having you I want no other . 
All my life is one with yours . 
You know it you know it , Lorna . 
'It is true that I do , 'she answered in a tone of deepest sadness 'and it is this power of your love which has made me love you so . 
No good can come of it , no good . 
God's face is set against selfishness . 
not with love and wonder only , but with a strange new sense of awe . 
'Darling , I said , 'come nearer to me . 
Give me surety against that . 
For God's sake never frighten me with the thought that He would part us . 
'Does it then so frighten you ? she whispered , coming close to me 'I know it , dear I have known it long but it never frightens me . 
It makes me sad , and very lonely , till I can remember . 
'Till you can remember what ? I asked , with a long , deep shudder for we are so superstitious . 
'Until I do remember , love , that you will soon come back to me , and be my own for ever . 
This is what I always think of , this is what I hope for . 
Although her eyes were so glorious , and beaming with eternity , this distant sort of beatitude was not much to my liking . 
I wanted to have my love on earth and my dear wife in my own home and children in good time , if God should please to send us any . 
And then I would be to them , exactly what my father was to me . 
And beside all this , I doubted much about being fit for heaven where no ploughs are , and no cattle , unless sacrificed bulls went thither . 
Therefore I said , 'Now kiss me , Lorna and don't talk any nonsense . 
And the darling came and did it being kindly obedient , as the other world often makes us . 
Now you know my entire want and want must be my comfort . 
'But surely if I have money , sir , and birth , and rank , and all sorts of grandeur , you would never dare to think of me . 
But now I do with all my heart . 
Will you never know what I am , love ? 'No , Lorna , that I never shall . 
'Then never try to understand me , if the result is that , dear John . 
And yet I am the very simplest of all foolish simple creatures . 
Nay , I am wrong therein I yield the palm to you , my dear . 
To think that I can act so ! No wonder they want me in London , as an ornament for the stage , John . 
However , for the moment , I was very proud and showed it . 
Hope of course is nothing more than desire with a telescope , magnifying distant matters , overlooking near ones opening one eye on the objects , closing the other to all objections . 
And if hope be the future tense of desire , the future of fear is religion at least with too many of us . 
And so I hoped that Lorna might be proved of blameless family , and honourable rank and fortune and yet none the less for that , love me and belong to me . 
So I led her into the house , and she fell into my mother's arms and I left them to have a good cry of it , with Annie ready to help them . 
as the invention of the evil one , and Pharoah's especial property . 
And the fault of this lay not with us , but purely with himself and his unquiet constitution . 
pronounced , being under seal of secrecy . 
And all might have gone well with it , if the author could only have held his tongue , when near the ears of women . 
But this was beyond his sense as it seems , although so good a writer . 
, he could not contain himself , but must have her opinion upon his work . 
Lizzie sat on a log of wood , and listened with all her ears up , having made proviso that no one else should be there to interrupt her . 
Therefore let me seek his grace , and get back , and just begin again . 
could do no harm to nobody , and might set them upon their legs again . 
And knowing , although they were London men , that fish do live in water , these two fellows went fishing all day , but never landed anything . 
We had not time to like them much , and so we did not miss them , especially in our great anxiety about poor Master Stickles . 
Jeremy lay between life and death , for at least a fortnight . 
it lodged in his leather collar . 
And after that his fever and the inflammation of his wound , diminished very rapidly . 
I rode alone , being fully primed , and having no misgivings . 
in the thickest of their fire , both of gun and cannon , that I must bear a charmed life , proof against ball and bullet . 
However , I knew that Carver Doone was not a likely man to hold any superstitious opinions and of him I had an instinctive dread , although quite ready to face him . 
had greatly puzzled both of us . 
And that Lorna's father had been a foe to the house of Doone I gathered from her mother's cry when she beheld their leader . 
And since I was come to know Lorna better , and she to know me thoroughly many things had been outspoken , which her early bashfulness had kept covered from me . 
Attempts I mean to pledge her love to this one , or that other some of which perhaps might have been successful , if there had not been too many . 
Here too may the explanation of a thing which seemed to be against the laws of human nature , and upon which I longed , but dared not to cross question Lorna . 
For any proven violence would have utterly vitiated all claim upon her grand estate at least as those claims must be urged before a court of equity . 
kept strict watch on the youngers , who confined their views to her personality . 
Far be it from me to deceive you so . 
No doubt my thoughts were then dark and hazy , like an oil lamp full of fungus and I have trimmed them , as when they burned , with scissors sharpened long afterwards . 
The boy that lives at oh ah and some day you would come seek for him . 
'Oh , yes , I remember certainly . 
My leetle boy , with the fair white skin . 
I have desired to see him , oh many , yes , many times . 
She was opening the door , while saying this , and then she started back in affright that the little boy should have grown so . 
'You cannot be that leetle boy . 
'Come in , you very great leetle boy , she answered , with her dark eyes brightened . 
And I went in , and looked at her . 
She was altered by time , as much as I was . 
Now her time for walking so was past , and transmitted to her children . 
Yet her face was comely still , and full of strong intelligence . 
I gazed at her , and she at me and we were sure of one another . 
'I will tell you by and by , I answered , misliking this satire upon us 'but I might begin with a quart of ale , to enable me to speak , madam . 
One quevart of be or she called out to a little maid , who was her eldest child , no doubt . 
'It is to be expected , sir . 
Be or , be or , be or , all day long , with you Englishmen ! 'Nay , I replied , 'not all day long , if madam will excuse me . 
Only a pint at breakfast time , and a pint and a half at eleven o'clock , and a quart or so at dinner . 
And then no more till the afternoon and half a gallon at supper time . 
No one can object to that . 
'Well , I suppose it is right , she said , with an air of resignation 'God knows . 
But I do not understand it . 
It is good for business , as you say , to preclude everything . 
'At any rate , you are , young man . 
If beer has made you grow so large , I will put my children upon it it is too late for me to begin . 
The smell to me is hateful . 
Now I only set down that to show how perverse those foreign people are . 
This is very well for them and as good as they deserve , no doubt , and meant perhaps by the will of God , for those unhappy natives . 
and sell it at ten times the price , as a cure for British bile , and a great enlightenment this I say is the vilest feature of the age we live in . 
This she had a right to do and I , having all my clothes on now , was not disconcerted . 
And she asked me whether I had ever got rid of the black marks on my breast . 
I led her back to that fearful night of the day when first I had seen her . 
And her strong hot nature kindled , as she dwelled upon these things and my wrath waxed within me and we forgot reserve and prudence under the sense of so vile a wrong . 
the very same story which she had told to Master Jeremy Stickles only she dwelled upon it more , because of my knowing the outset . 
And being a woman , with an inkling of my situation , she enlarged upon the little maid , more than to dry Jeremy . 
Nevertheless I could not stop to argue that matter with her . 
'The little maid has not been devoured , I said to Mistress Odam 'and now she is a tall young lady , and as beautiful as can be . 
This country is so barbarous . 
that I nearly lost good manners for she really seemed to suspect even me of cannibal inclinations . 
This , however , proved otherwise . 
For Lord Dugal had never lived at Watchett Grange , as their place was called neither had his name become familiar as its owner . 
And upon news of his death , John Jones , a rich gentleman from Llandaff , had taken possession , as next of right , and hushed up all the story . 
without a tear , except from the hired Italian woman . 
Surely my poor Lorna came of an ill starred family . 
that my wits almost went out of me . 
And what vexed me yet more about it was , that I saw my own mistake , in coming myself to seek out the matter , instead of sending some unknown person . 
to nine people out of every ten living in forty miles of me . 
Not through any excellence , or anything of good desert , in either the one or the other , but simply because folks will be fools on the rivalry of wrestling . 
through their loss of temper . 
to their own private life . 
I was led to every public house , instead of to the churchyard and twenty tables were ready for me , in lieu of a single gravestone . 
'Zummerzett thou bee'st , Jan Ridd , and Zummerzett thou shalt be . 
Thee carl theezell a Davonsheer man ! Whoy , thee lives in Zummerzett and in Zummerzett thee wast barn , lad . 
And so it went on , till I was weary though very much obliged to them . 
As for the churchyard , none would hear of it and I grieved for broaching the matter . 
Least of all could I say that every one in Watchett knew John Ridd while none had heard of the Countess of Dugal . 
And yet that was about the truth , as I hinted very delicately to Mistress Odam that evening . 
made a poor unwitting face at me . 
Nevertheless Master Odam restored me to my self respect for he stared at me till I went to bed and he broke his hose with excitement . 
For being in the leg line myself , I wanted to know what the muscles were of a man who turned a wheel all day . 
, and it touched me much to learn whether it were good exercise . 
And herein , from what I saw of Odam , I incline to think that it does great harm as moving the muscles too much in a line , and without variety . 
And so , without interruption , I was in the churchyard at sunrise . 
In the farthest and darkest nook , overgrown with grass , and overhung by a weeping tree a little bank of earth betokened the rounding off of a hapless life . 
I gathered a little grass for Lorna and a sprig of the weeping tree , and then returned to the Forest Cat , as Benita's lonely inn was called . 
Therefore , we set out pretty early , three of us and a baby , who could not well be left behind . 
Mistress Benita was delighted with the change from her dull hard life and she made many excellent observations , such as seem natural to a foreigner looking at our country . 
but her beautiful hair shed round her and wearing a sweet white frock tucked in , and showing her figure perfectly . 
In her joy she ran straight up to the cart and then stopped and gazed at Benita . 
Lorna , on the other hand , looked at her with some doubt and wonder , as though having right to know much about her , and yet unable to do so . 
This being so , there could be no doubt as to the power of proving Lady Lorna's birth , and rights , both by evidence and token . 
had pledged herself to me . 
A wild and headstrong race they were , and must have everything their own way . 
waned and fell among themselves , by continual quarrelling . 
should fall out with the Earl of Lorne , the last but one of that title . 
The daughter of this nobleman had married Sir Ensor Doone but this , instead of healing matters , led to fiercer conflict . 
I never could quite understand all the ins and outs of it which none but a lawyer may go through , and keep his head at the end of it . 
The motives of mankind are plainer than the motions they produce . 
sits to judge the former , and is never weary of it while reason does not care to trace the latter complications , except for fee or title . 
Only Lorna was of the stock and Lorna they must marry . 
Even if they had murdered people of a good position , it would only cost about twice as much to prove their motives loyal . 
Pure pleasure it is to any man , to reflect upon all these things . 
How truly we discern clear justice , and how well we deal it . 
, to the gallows with him . 
While we were full of all these things , and wondering what would happen next , or what we ought ourselves to do , another very important matter called for our attention . 
This was no less than Annie's marriage to the Squire Faggus . 
We had tried to put it off again for in spite of all advantages , neither my mother nor myself had any real heart for it . 
Not that we dwelled upon Tom's short comings or rather perhaps his going too far , at the time when he worked the road so . 
All that was covered by the King's pardon , and universal respect of the neighbourhood . 
But our scruple was this and the more we talked the more it grew upon us that we both had great misgivings as to his future steadiness . 
And while she was gone , we used to say the same thing over and over again but without perceiving a cure for it . 
And we almost always finished up with the following reflection , which sometimes came from mother's lips , and sometimes from my own 'Well , well , there is no telling . 
None can say how a man may alter when he takes to matrimony . 
And at last Tom Faggus came , and spoke as if he were on the King's road , with a pistol at my head , and one at mother's . 
'No more fast and loose , he cried . 
'either one thing or the other . 
I love the maid , and she loves me and we will have one another , either with your leave , or without it . 
Just treat me as I would treat you now . 
Now I will be as straight forward with you , as even a Ridd is supposed to be . 
My son and myself have all along disliked your marriage with Annie . 
Not for what you have been so much , as for what we fear you will be . 
Have patience , one moment , if you please . 
We do not fear your taking to the highway life again for that you are too clever , no doubt , now that you have property . 
But we fear that you will take to drinking , and to squandering money . 
There are many examples of this around us and we know what the fate of the wife is . 
It has been hard to tell you this , under our own roof , and with our own Here mother hesitated . 
'Spirits , and cider , and beer , I broke in 'out with it , like a Ridd , mother as he will have all of it . 
But instead of that , Master Faggus replied , with a pleasant smile , 'I know that I am welcome , good mother and to prove it , I will have some more . 
And thereupon be mixed himself another glass of hollands with lemon and hot water , yet pouring it very delicately . 
'Oh , I have been so miserable take a little more , Tom , said mother , handing the bottle . 
'Yes , take a little more , I said 'you have mixed it over weak , Tom . 
'If ever there was a sober man , cried Tom , complying with our request 'if ever there was in Christendom a man of perfect sobriety , that man is now before you . 
Shall we say to morrow week , mother ? It will suit your washing day . 
'How very thoughtful you are , Tom ! Now John would never have thought of that , in spite of all his steadiness . 
'Certainly not , I answered proudly 'when my time comes for Lorna , I shall not study Betty Muxworthy . 
In this way the Squire got over us and Farmer Nicholas Snowe was sent for , to counsel with mother about the matter and to set his two daughters sewing . 
When the time for the wedding came , there was such a stir and commotion as had never been known in the parish of Oare since my father's marriage . 
For Annie's beauty and kindliness had made her the pride of the neighbourhood and the presents sent her , from all around , were enough to stock a shop with . 
, clubbed together , and must have given at least a week's pay apiece , to have turned out what they did for her . 
This was no less than a silver pot , well designed , but suited surely rather to the bridegroom's taste than bride's . 
In a word , everybody gave her things . 
'What is it , little darling ? I asked , as I saw her breath come fast for the smallest emotion moved her form . 
Here she looked up at me , with horror at the grandeur of the sum , and not knowing what I could think of it . 
But I kept my eyes from her . 
'That may be as may be , I answered in a judicial manner 'ten pounds , or twenty , you shall have . 
But I must know the purport . 
'Then that you never shall know , John . 
I am very sorry for asking you . 
It is not of the smallest consequence . 
Oh , dear , no . 
Herewith she was running away . 
'Oh , dear , yes , I replied 'it is of very great consequence and I understand the whole of it . 
And you shall do it , darling because it is so good of you . 
Don't you know your title , love ? How humble you are with us humble folk . 
You are Lady Lorna something , so far as I can make out yet and you ought not even to speak to us . 
You will go away and disdain us . 
'If you please , talk not like that , John . 
I will have nothing to do with it , if it comes between you and me , John . 
'You cannot help yourself , said I. And then she vowed that she could and would . 
And rank and birth were banished from between our lips in no time . 
How I shall miss her , to be sure ! By the bye , you seem to think , John , that I shall be rich some day . 
As rich as the French King who keeps ours . 
Would the Lord Chancellor trouble himself about you , if you were poor ? 'Then if I am rich , perhaps you would lend me twenty pounds , dear John . 
Ten pounds would be very mean for a wealthy person to give her . 
To this I agreed , upon condition that I should make the purchase myself , whatever it might be . 
For nothing could be easier than to cheat Lorna about the cost , until time should come for her paying me . 
And this was better than to cheat her for the benefit of our family . 
To my dear mother , who had partly outlived the exceeding value of trifles , the most important matter seemed to ensure Uncle Reuben's countenance and presence at the marriage . 
And if I succeeded in this , I might well forget all the maidens' trumpery . 
But if he was surprised , I was more than that I was utterly astonished at the change in his appearance since the last time I had seen him . 
From a hale , and rather heavy man , gray haired , but plump , and ruddy , he was altered to a shrunken , wizened , trembling , and almost decrepit figure . 
Instead of curly and comely locks , grizzled indeed , but plentiful , he had only a few lank white hairs scattered and flattened upon his forehead . 
But the greatest change of all was in the expression of his eyes , which had been so keen , and restless , and bright , and a little sarcastic . 
Bright indeed they still were , but with a slow unhealthy lustre their keenness was turned to perpetual outlook , their restlessness to a haggard want . 
it had been succeeded by stares of terror , and then mistrust , and shrinking . 
There was none of the interest in mankind , which is needful even for satire . 
It is cold out here and it is too light . 
Come inside , John Ridd , boy . 
I followed him into a little dark room , quite different from Ruth Huckaback's . 
It was closed from the shop by an old division of boarding , hung with tanned canvas and the smell was very close and faint . 
Here there was a ledger desk , and a couple of chairs , and a long legged stool . 
'Take the stool , said Uncle Reuben , showing me in very quietly , 'it is fitter for your height , John . 
Wait a moment there is no hurry . 
Then he slipped out by another door , and closing it quickly after him , told the foreman and waiting men that the business of the day was done . 
They had better all go home at once and he would see to the fastenings . 
Of course they were only too glad to go but I wondered at his sending them , with at least two hours of daylight left . 
Uncle Ben came reeling in , not from any power of liquor , but because he was stiff from horseback , and weak from work and worry . 
Do you , John ? 'Come , said I , 'don't ask such nonsense . 
You know better than that , Uncle Ben . 
Or else , I am sorry for you . 
I want you to live as long as possible , for the sake of Here I stopped . 
'For the sake of what , John ? I knew it is not for my own sake . 
For the sake of what , my boy ? 'For the sake of Ruth , I answered 'if you must have all the truth . 
Here he eyed me as if a speck of dust in my eyes should not escape him . 
'You are wrong , Uncle Ben altogether wrong . 
For all the gold ever heard or dreamed of , not a wish would cross my heart to rob you of one day of life . 
At last he moved his eyes from mine but without any word , or sign , to show whether he believed , or disbelieved . 
Then he went to a chair , and sat with his chin upon the ledger desk as if the effort of probing me had been too much for his weary brain . 
'Dreamed of ! All the gold ever dreamed of ! As if it were but a dream ! he muttered and then he closed his eyes to think . 
'Good Uncle Reuben , I said to him , 'you have been a long way to day , sir . 
Let me go and get you a glass of good wine . 
Cousin Ruth knows where to find it . 
'How do you know how far I have been ? he asked , with a vicious look at me . 
'And Cousin Ruth ! You are very pat with my granddaughter's name , young man ! 'It would be hard upon me , sir , not to know my own cousin's name . 
You have behaved very badly to Ruth . 
She loves you and you love her not . 
'You may well be ashamed , young man , he cried , with some triumph over me , 'you are the biggest of all fools , as well as a conceited coxcomb . 
And as for quality , and value bots ! one inch of Ruth is worth all your seven feet put together . 
It cost me hard to hold my tongue which luckily is not in proportion to my stature . 
And only for Ruth's sake I held it . 
was vexed by not having any answer , almost as much as a woman is . 
'You want me to go on , he continued , with a look of spite at me , 'about my poor Ruth's love for you , to feed your cursed vanity . 
who is not in love with you . 
I believe you are as deep as you are long , John Ridd . 
Shall I ever get to the bottom of your character ? This was a little too much for me . 
from a white haired man , and one who was my relative unless it touched my love for Lorna , or my conscious modesty . 
Now both of these were touched to the quick by the sentences of the old gentleman . 
Therefore , without a word , I went only making a bow to him . 
the mothers of all mischief , also nurse that babe to sleep , when he is too noisy . 
, poor little Ruth was at the bridle , and rusting all the knops of our town going harness with tears . 
And now he is so weak and poorly , that he is always repenting . 
In the next place I shall scold him first , until he admits his sorrow and when he has admitted it , I shall scold myself for scolding him . 
And then he will come round again , and think that I was hard on him and end perhaps by hating you for he is like a woman now , John . 
'There is something in this child , I thought , 'very different from other girls . 
What it is I cannot tell for one very seldom gets at it . 
At any rate the upshot was that the good horse went back to stable , and had another feed of corn , while my wrath sank within me . 
fitted beyond any others to take hot tempers out of us . 
I told him how sorry I was for having in some way offended him and he answered that I did well to grieve for one at least of my offences . 
To this I made no reply , as behoves a man dealing with cross and fractious people and presently he became better tempered , and sent little Ruth for a bottle of wine . 
She gave me a beautiful smile of thanks for my forbearance as she passed and I knew by her manner that she would bring the best bottle in all the cellar . 
we were forced to take our wine with promptitude and rapidity and whether this loosened my uncle's tongue , or whether he meant beforehand to speak , is now almost uncertain . 
But true it is that he brought his chair very near to mine , after three or four glasses , and sent Ruth away upon some errand which seemed of small importance . 
At this I was vexed , for the room always looked so different without her . 
'Come , Jack , he said , 'here's your health , young fellow , and a good and obedient wife to you . 
Not that your wife will ever obey you though you are much too easy tempered . 
Even a bitter and stormy woman might live in peace with you , Jack . 
But never you give her the chance to try . 
Marry some sweet little thing , if you can . 
If not , don't marry any . 
Ah , we have the maid to suit you , my lad , in this old town of Dulverton . 
'Have you so , sir ? But perhaps the maid might have no desire to suit me . 
'That you may take my word she has . 
The colour of this wine will prove it . 
The little sly hussy has been to the cobwebbed arch of the cellar , where she has no right to go , for any one under a magistrate . 
However , I am glad to see it , and we will not spare it , John . 
After my time , somebody , whoever marries little Ruth , will find some rare wines there , I trow , and perhaps not know the difference . 
Thinking of this the old man sighed , and expected me to sigh after him . 
infectious and we are all more prone to be sent to sleep than to sorrow by one another . 
Not but what a sigh sometimes may make us think of sighing . 
'Curia vult advisari , as the lawyers say which means , 'Let us have another glass , and then we can think about it . 
Don't interrupt me now you have and to deny it will only provoke me . 
'I do like Ruth , sir , I said boldly , for fear of misunderstanding 'but I do not love her . 
'Very well that makes no difference . 
when the maid has money to help her . 
'But if there be , as there is in my case 'Once for all , John , not a word . 
if no such engagement should ever be . 
The first is that it wears me out to dwell upon it , all alone , and the second is that I can trust you to fulfil a promise . 
Moreover , you are my next of kin , except among the womankind and you are just the man I want , to help me in my enterprise . 
'And I will help you , sir , I answered , fearing some conspiracy , 'in anything that is true , and loyal , and according to the laws of the realm . 
Disaffection at Taunton , signs of insurrection at Dulverton , revolutionary tanner at Dunster ! We set it all abroad , right well . 
And not even you to suspect our work though we thought at one time that you watched us . 
'Nay , old Uncle Reuben ! Saying this , Master Huckaback cast back his coat , and stood up , and made the most of himself . 
I will trust you now with everything . 
I will take no oath from you only your word to keep silence and most of all from your mother . 
'I will give you my word , I said , although liking not such pledges which make a man think before he speaks in ordinary company , against his usual practices . 
However , I was now so curious , that I thought of nothing else and scarcely could believe at all that Uncle Ben was quite right in his head . 
Come and see our rebellion , my boy you are a made man from to night . 
I am free to admit that the name of the place bore a feeling of uneasiness , and a love of distance , in some measure to my heart . 
I am well aware that some people now begin to doubt about witchcraft or at any rate feign to do so being desirous to disbelieve whatever they are afraid of . 
in the destruction of all religion . 
And as regards witchcraft , a man is bound either to believe in it , or to disbelieve the Bible . 
Hence let no one tell me that witchcraft is done away with for I will meet him with St . 
Paul , than whom no better man , and few less superstitious , can be found in all the Bible . 
There were several spots , upon that Down , cursed and smitten , and blasted , as if thunderbolts had fallen there , and Satan sat to keep them warm . 
not to wander there too much even with a doctor of divinity on one arm and of medicine upon the other . 
, preferred a course of roundabout and starting about eight o'clock , without mentioning my business , arrived at the mouth of the deep descent , such as John Fry described it . 
was not my first time of being there . 
, having less fear of witch or wizard , with a man of Uncle Reuben's wealth to take my part , and see me through . 
And along one side , a little spring was getting rid of its waters . 
Any man might stop and think or he might go on and think and in either case , there was none to say that he was making a fool of himself . 
Therefore , I sat in a niche of rock , gazing at the slough , and pondering the old tradition about it . 
They say that , in the ancient times , a mighty necromancer lived in the wilderness of Exmoor . 
Any moving creature , at which that book was pointed , must obey the call , and come from whatever distance , if sighted once by the wizard . 
was beginning to get a bad reputation , and all through that vile wizard . 
And this went on for many years though they prayed to God to abate it . 
But at last , when the wizard was getting fat and haughty upon his high stomach , a mighty deliverance came to Exmoor , and a warning , and a memory . 
For one day the sorcerer gazed from his window facing the southeast of the compass , and he yawned , having killed so many men that now he was weary of it . 
Ifackins , he cried , or some such oath , both profane and uncomely , 'I see a man on the verge of the sky line , going along laboriously . 
A pilgrim , I trow , or some such fool , with the nails of his boots inside them . 
Too thin to be worth eating but I will have him for the fun of the thing and most of those saints have got money . 
With these words he stretched forth his legs on a stool , and pointed the book of heathenish spells back upwards at the pilgrim . 
Now this good pilgrim was plodding along , soberly and religiously , with a pound of flints in either boot , and not an ounce of meat inside him . 
He felt the spell of the wicked book , but only as a horse might feel a 'gee wug ! addressed to him . 
It was in the power of this good man , either to go on , or turn aside , and see out the wizard's meaning . 
And for a moment he halted and stood , like one in two minds about a thing . 
'By our Lady , he cried , 'I must see to this although my poor feet have no skin below them . 
I will teach this heathen miscreant how to scoff at Glastonbury . 
Thereupon he turned his course , and ploughed along through the moors and bogs , towards the eight sided palace . 
The wizard sat on his chair of comfort , and with the rankest contempt observed the holy man ploughing towards him . 
Then he cried , 'Come in , come in , good sir , as he always did to every one . 
'Bad sir , I will not come in , said the pilgrim 'neither shall you come out again . 
Here are the bones of all you have slain and here shall your own bones be . 
'Hurry me not , cried the sorcerer 'that is a thing to think about . 
Therefore he answered , as truly as need be , 'By the grace of our Lady , nine . 
Now nine is the crossest of all cross numbers , and full to the lip of all crochets . 
'One will do one is quite enough be quick before the ground opens . 
The name of one and this cross will save you . 
Lay your thumb on the end of it . 
'Nay , that I cannot do , great saint . 
The devil have mercy upon me . 
All this while the palace was sinking , and blackness coming over them . 
'Thou hast all but done for thyself , said the saint , with a glory burning round his head 'by that last invocation . 
Yet give us the name of the one , my friend , if one there be it will save thee , with the cross upon thy breast . 
All is crashing round us dear brother , who is that one ? 'My own self , cried the wretched wizard . 
'Then there is no help for thee . 
both my Lorna's Aunt Sabina , and her guardian Ensor Doone . 
Then I left my chair of rock , and waved my hat and shouted to him , and the sound of my voice among the crags and lonely corners frightened me . 
beckoned me to come to him . 
There was just room between the fringe of reed and the belt of rock around it , for a man going very carefully to escape that horrible pit hole . 
And so I went round to the other side , and there found open space enough , with stunted bushes , and starveling trees , and straggling tufts of rushes . 
And after what I heard of the battle at Glen Doone , I thought I might trust you for courage . 
'So you may , said I , 'wherever I see mine enemy but not where witch and wizard be . 
'Tush , great fool ! cried Master Huckaback 'the only witch or wizard here is the one that bewitcheth all men . 
Now fasten up my horse , John Ridd , and not too near the slough , lad . 
Ah , we have chosen our entrance wisely . 
down this good wizard's bog hole . 
I offered a hand , but he was vexed , and would have nought to do with it . 
, but many parts are treacherous , I know it well by this time . 
Without any more ado , he led me in and out the marshy places , to a great round hole or shaft , bratticed up with timber . 
I never had seen the like before , and wondered how they could want a well , with so much water on every side . 
He was frightened half out of his life , I believe , and never ventured to come again . 
But we put the blame of that upon you . 
And I see that we were wrong , John . 
Here he looked at me with keen eyes , though weak . 
'You were altogether wrong , I answered . 
'Am I mean enough to spy upon any one dwelling with us ? And more than that , Uncle Reuben , it was mean of you to suppose it . 
I take things as I have known them , going on for seventy years . 
'I will first descend , he said 'your weight is too great for safety . 
When the bucket comes up again , follow me , if your heart is good . 
However , at last up came the bucket and with a short sad prayer I went into whatever might happen . 
The scoopings of the side grew black , and the patch of sky above more blue , as with many thoughts of Lorna , a long way underground I sank . 
Then I was fetched up at the bottom with a jerk and rattle and but for holding by the rope so , must have tumbled over . 
And he seemed to look upon my entrance as an interloping . 
For my part , I had nought to do , after rubbing my bruised leg , except to look about me , so far as the dullness of light would help . 
And herein I seemed , like a mouse in a trap , able no more than to run to and fro , and knock himself , and stare at things . 
So I waited for somebody to speak first , not seeing my way to anything . 
'You are wrong , I replied 'but I did expect to see something better than dirt and darkness . 
'Come on then , my lad and we will show you some thing better . 
We want your great arm on here , for a job that has beaten the whole of us . 
Beside it were several sledge hammers , battered , and some with broken helves . 
'Thou great villain ! cried Uncle Ben , giving the boulder a little kick 'I believe thy time is come at last . 
Now , John , give us a sample of the things they tell of thee . 
Take the biggest of them sledge hammers and crack this rogue in two for us . 
We have tried at him for a fortnight , and he is a nut worth cracking . 
But we have no man who can swing that hammer , though all in the mine have handled it . 
'Ay , that her wull , grunted Master Carfax 'lack'th a Carnishman , and a beg one too , not a little charp such as I be . 
There be no man outside Carnwall , as can crack that boolder . 
'Bless my heart , I answered 'but I know something of you , my friend , or at any rate of your family . 
Well , I have beaten most of your Cornish men , though not my place to talk of it . 
But mind , if I crack this rock for you , I must have some of the gold inside it . 
So I begged him to stoop his torch a little , that I might examine my subject . 
To me there appeared to be nothing at all remarkable about it , except that it sparkled here and there , when the flash of the flame fell upon it . 
The roof above rang mightily , and the echo went down delven galleries , so that all the miners flocked to know what might be doing . 
But Master Carfax only smiled , although the blow shook him where he stood , for behold the stone was still unbroken , and as firm as ever . 
Then I smote it again , with no better fortune , and Uncle Ben looked vexed and angry , but all the miners grinned with triumph . 
'This little tool is too light , I cried 'one of you give me a piece of strong cord . 
Then I took two more of the weightiest hammers , and lashed them fast to the back of mine , not so as to strike , but to burden the fall . 
and me with my hammer hammering . 
Crashing and crushed the great stone fell over , and threads of sparkling gold appeared in the jagged sides of the breakage . 
Get your rollers , my lads , and lead it to the crushing engine . 
I was glad to have been of some service to them for it seems that this great boulder had been too large to be drawn along the gallery and too hard to crack . 
But now they moved it very easily , taking piece by piece , and carefully picking up the fragments . 
But we must not do it more than once , for the time of day is the wrong one . 
He led me through small passages , to a hollow place near the descending shaft , where I saw a most extraordinary monster fitted up . 
In form it was like a great coffee mill , such as I had seen in London , only a thousand times larger , and with heavy windlass to work it . 
'Put in a barrow load of the smoulder , said Uncle Ben to Carfax , 'and let them work the crank , for John to understand a thing or two . 
'Enough , enough ! shouted Uncle Ben by the time I was nearly deafened 'we will digest our goodly boulder after the devil is come abroad for his evening work . 
Now , John , not a word about what you have learned but henceforth you will not be frightened by the noise we make at dusk . 
I could not deny but what this was very clever management . 
had put into the earth more gold than they had taken out of it . 
kept folk from being too inquisitive where they had no business . 
Now if he had ridden alone , most likely he would have discovered everything but he feared to venture so , having suspicion of a trap . 
could not help espying them , miles distant , over the moorland . 
He watched them under the shade of his hand , and presently ran down the hill , and raised a great commotion . 
Only Simon himself was left behind , ensconced in a hole of the crags , to observe the doings of the enemy . 
Captain Stickles rode very bravely , with all his men clattering after him , down the rocky pass , and even to the margin of the slough . 
Then they spurred across the rough boggy land , farther away than the shaft was . 
Here the ground lay jagged and shaggy , wrought up with high tufts of reed , or scragged with stunted brushwood . 
green covered places tempted the foot , and black bog holes discouraged it . 
In and out of the tufts they went , with their eyes dilating , wishing to be out of harm , if conscience were but satisfied . 
And of this tufty flaggy ground , pocked with bogs and boglets , one especial nature is that it will not hold impressions . 
For above them hung the mountains , cowled with fog , and seamed with storm and around them desolation and below their feet the grave . 
Hence they went , with all goodwill and vowed for ever afterwards that fear of a simple place like that was only too ridiculous . 
So they all rode home with mutual praises , and their courage well approved and the only result of the expedition was to confirm John Fry's repute as a bigger liar than ever . 
'It must be our Gwenny's father , she cried 'the man who disappeared underground , and whom she has ever been seeking . 
For I did not wish to commit myself to an opinion about Simon , lest I might be wrong , and Lorna think less of my judgment . 
And to carry out this resolve , I went again to the place of business where they were grinding gold as freely as an apothecary at his pills . 
No doubt but what some men enjoy it , being born , like worms , to dig , and to live in their own scoopings . 
And the changing of the sky is half the change our nature calls for . 
Do we look at sea with hope ? Yes , that we may escape it . 
, at the sky alone we look with pure hope and with memory . 
Hence it always hurt my feelings when I got into that bucket , with my small clothes turned up over , and a kerchief round my hat . 
But knowing that my purpose was sound , and my motives pure , I let the sky grow to a little blue hole , and then to nothing over me . 
At the bottom Master Carfax met me , being captain of the mine , and desirous to know my business . 
He wore a loose sack round his shoulders , and his beard was two feet long . 
'Coom into the muck hole , then , was his gracious answer and he led me into a filthy cell , where the miners changed their jackets . 
'Simon Carfax , I began , with a manner to discourage him 'I fear you are a shallow fellow , and not worth my trouble . 
'Then don't take it , he replied 'I want no man's trouble . 
'For your sake I would not , I answered 'but for your daughter's sake I will the daughter whom you left to starve so pitifully in the wilderness . 
No daughter , and no son have I. Nor was ever child of mine left to starve in the wilderness . 
You are too big for me to tackle , and that makes you a coward for saying it . 
His hands were playing with a pickaxe helve , as if he longed to have me under it . 
'Perhaps I have wronged you , Simon , I answered very softly for the sweat upon his forehead shone in the smoky torchlight 'if I have , I crave your pardon . 
'You shall have her , without either mine or gold if you only prove to me that you did not abandon her . 
'Abandon her ! I abandon Gwenny ! He cried with such a rage of scorn , that I at once believed him . 
'They told me she was dead , and crushed , and buried in the drift here and half my heart died with her . 
Come up and you shall see her . 
For my part , I could do no more than hold my tongue and look at him . 
Without another word we rose to the level of the moors and mires neither would Master Carfax speak , as I led him across the barrows . 
In this he was welcome to his own way , for I do love silence so little harm can come of it . 
And though Gwenny was no beauty , her father might be fond of her . 
, and the folding shutters over him , such as we used at the beestings and he listened to my voice outside , and held on , and preserved himself . 
For now he would have scooped the earth , as cattle do at yearning time , and as meekly and as patiently , to have his child restored to him . 
'Come along , you little Vick , I said , for so we called her 'I have a message to you , Gwenny , from the Lord in heaven . 
'Don't 'ee talk about He , she answered 'Her have long forgatten me . 
'That He has never done , you stupid . 
Come , and see who is in the cowhouse . 
Gwenny knew she knew in a moment . 
Looking into my eyes , she knew and hanging back from me to sigh , she knew it even better . 
She had not much elegance of emotion , being flat and square all over but none the less for that her heart came quick , and her words came slowly . 
'Oh , Jan , you are too good to cheat me . 
Is it joke you are putting upon me ? I answered her with a gaze alone and she tucked up her clothes and followed me because the road was dirty . 
Then I opened the door just wide enough for the child to to go her father , and left those two to have it out , as might be most natural . 
And they took a long time about it . 
Meanwhile I needs must go and tell my Lorna all the matter and her joy was almost as great as if she herself had found a father . 
And the wonder of the whole was this , that I got all the credit of which not a thousandth part belonged by right and reason to me . 
Yet so it almost always is . 
It would have been better to leave unburned , and to keep undevoured , the fuel and the food of life . 
the ill luck of deserving . 
Without intending any harm , and meaning only good indeed , I had now done serious wrong to Uncle Reuben's prospects . 
For Captain Carfax was full as angry at the trick played on him as he was happy in discovering the falsehood and the fraud of it . 
that his daughter was as well as could be , and enjoying herself with the children . 
Not wishing the maid to see him tipsy , he pressed the matter no further but applied himself to the bottle again , and drank her health with pleasure . 
However , after three days of this , his constitution rose against it , and he became quite sober with a certain lowness of heart moreover , and a sense of error . 
And his first desire to right himself , and easiest way to do it , was by exerting parental authority upon Gwenny . 
he sought for Gwenny high and low first with threats , and then with fears , and then with tears and wailing . 
And so he became to the other men a warning and a great annoyance . 
might it be attributed that scarcely any but themselves had dreamed about this Exmoor mine . 
As for me , I had no ambition to become a miner and the state to which gold seeking had brought poor Uncle Ben was not at all encouraging . 
, by a call there was no resisting unless I gave up all regard for wrestling , and for my county . 
Now here many persons may take me amiss , and there always has been some confusion which people who ought to have known better have wrought into subject of quarrelling . 
that John Ridd was of its own producing , bred of its own true blood , and basely stolen by the other . 
Now I have not judged it in any way needful or even becoming and delicate , to enter into my wrestling adventures , or describe my progress . 
to magnify myself so much , or at least attempt to do it , that I have scratched out written pages , through my better taste and sense . 
Neither will I , upon this head , make any difference even now being simply betrayed into mentioning the matter because bare truth requires it , in the tale of Lorna's fortunes . 
Round the chest he was seventy inches , and his hand a foot across , and there were no scales strong enough to judge of his weight in the market place . 
It is no use to deny but that I was greatly dashed and scared at first . 
Now this story is too well known for me to go through it again and again . 
Enough that I had found the giant quite as big as they had described him , and enough to terrify any one . 
The man had no bones his frame sank in , and I was afraid of crushing him . 
He lay on his back , and smiled at me and I begged his pardon . 
Now this affair made a noise at the time , and redounded so much to my credit , that I was deeply grieved at it , because deserving none . 
However , I got my hundred pounds , and made up my mind to spend every farthing in presents for mother and Lorna . 
For Annie was married by this time , and long before I went away as need scarcely be said , perhaps if any one follows the weeks and the months . 
The wedding was quiet enough , except for everybody's good wishes and I desire not to dwell upon it , because it grieved me in many ways . 
But now that I had tried to hope the very best for dear Annie , a deeper blow than could have come , even through her , awaited me . 
Lorna and I had settled this question at least twice a day , on the average and each time with more satisfaction . 
Lizzie also was softer , and more gracious than usual especially when she saw me pour guineas , like peppercorns , into the pudding basin . 
But by the way they hung about , I knew that something was gone wrong . 
'Where is Lorna ? I asked at length , after trying not to ask it 'I want her to come , and see my money . 
She never saw so much before . 
'Alas ! said mother with a heavy sigh 'she will see a great deal more , I fear and a deal more than is good for her . 
Whether you ever see her again will depend upon her nature , John . 
And yet your mother is your best friend . 
Who can ever fill her place ? Thinking of her future absence , mother turned away and cried and the box iron singed the blanket . 
We must try to get on without her . 
'Darling Lizzie , how good you are ! I cried , without noticing her sneer 'tell me all about it , dear tell me every word she said . 
But she left a letter for poor John , as in charity she called him . 
up to my lost Lorna's room , and tore the little wall niche open and espied my treasure . 
It was as simple , and as homely , and loving , as even I could wish . 
My great uncle , some grand lord , is awaiting me at Dunster , having fear of venturing too near this Exmoor country . 
of His Majesty's Court of Chancery . 
My uncle is appointed my guardian and master and I must live beneath his care , until I am twenty one years old . 
But they only laughed and called me child , and said I must talk of that to the King's High Chancellor . 
Their orders they had , and must obey them and Master Stickles was ordered too , to help as the King's Commissioner . 
And then , although it pierced my heart not to say one goodbye , John , I was glad upon the whole that you were not here to dispute it . 
For I am almost certain that you would not , without force to yourself , have let your Lorna go to people who never , never can care for her . 
Here my darling had wept again , by the tokens on the paper and then there followed some sweet words , too sweet for me to chatter them . 
I do no harm , but rather help all true love by repeating . 
We have passed through many troubles , dangers , and dispartments , but never yet was doubt between us neither ever shall be . 
Each has trusted well the other and still each must do so . 
, great tears fell from my stupid eyes , even on the blots of Lorna's . 
'No doubt it is all over , my mind said to me bitterly 'trust me , all shall yet be right , my heart replied very sweetly . 
, but in our part of the country , we do love to mention title , and to roll it on our tongues , with a conscience and a comfort . 
Therefore he must nod his head , and say , 'Ah , to he sure ! I know him as well as ever I know my own good woman's brother . 
He married Lord Flipflap's second daughter , and a precious life she led him . 
Whereupon the room looks up at him . 
Therefore , I fell back in thought , not daring in words to do so , upon the titles of our horses . 
And all these horses deserved their names , not having merely inherited , but by their own doing earned them . 
Smiler , for instance , had been so called , not so much from a habit of smiling , as from his general geniality , white nose , and white ankle . 
On the other hand , Kickums was a horse of morose and surly order harbouring up revenge , and leading a rider to false confidence . 
A bond of mutual sympathy was soon established between us I would ride no other horse , neither Kickums be ridden by any other man . 
However , for the sake of all , it must be attended to , and with as fair a show of spirit and alacrity as might be . 
For otherwise the rest would drag , and drop their hands and idle , being quicker to take infection of dullness than of diligence . 
And the harvest was a heavy one , even heavier than the year before , although of poorer quality . 
Therefore was I forced to work as hard as any horse could during all the daylight hours , and defer till night the brooding upon my misfortune . 
But the darkness always found me stiff with work , and weary , and less able to think than to dream , may be , of Lorna . 
For one thing I will say of the Doones , that whether by purchase or plunder , they had always dressed my darling well , with her own sweet taste to help them . 
Moreover , the child had imbibed strange ideas as to our aristocracy , partly perhaps from her own way of thinking , and partly from reading of history . 
had not wit enough to parry , yet had wound enough to feel . 
, and season every dish of meat put by for her John's return . 
, being the warmest of the warm , when fired at the proper corner and yet , if taken at the wrong point , you would say she was incombustible . 
Hence it came to pass that I had no one even to speak to , about Lorna and my grievances for Captain Stickles was now gone southward and John Fry . 
of course , was too low for it , although a married man , and well under his wife's management . 
off I set for Molland parish , to have the counsel and the comfort of my darling Annie . 
, that by nine o'clock Annie was in my arms , and blushing to the colour of Winnie's cheeks , with sudden delight and young happiness . 
Now look not jealous , John so it is . 
We all have special gifts , you know . 
You are as good as you can be , John but my husband's special gift is nobility of character . 
Here she looked at me , as one who has discovered something quite unknown . 
'I am devilish glad to hear it , said I , being touched at going down so 'keep him to that mark , my dear and cork the whisky bottle . 
I think all the women are gone mad . 
Even mother treats me shamefully . 
And as for Lizzie Here I stopped , knowing no words strong enough , without shocking Annie . 
'Do you mean to say that Lorna is gone ? asked Annie , in great amazement yet leaping at the truth , as women do , with nothing at all to leap from . 
And I never shall see her again . 
It serves me right for aspiring so . 
For we upon Exmoor have little taste all we care for is warm comfort , and plenty to eat and to give away , and a hearty smack in everything . 
had now been cultivated in London , and by moonlight , so that none could help admiring it . 
'Well ! I cried , for the moment dropping care and woe in astonishment 'we have nothing like this at Plover's Barrows nor even Uncle Reuben . 
What can you want with a couch downstairs ? I never heard of such nonsense . 
And you ought to be in the dairy . 
'I won't cry , brother John , I won't because you want to make me cry' and all the time she was crying 'you always were so nasty , John , sometimes . 
Ah , you have no nobility of character , like my husband . 
You have always been true to me and I can forgive your vanity . 
Your things are very pretty , dear and you may couch ten times a day , without my interference . 
No doubt your husband has paid for all this , with the ponies he stole from Exmoor . 
I thought to myself that our present King had been most unlucky in one thing debts all over the kingdom . 
Many have called King Charles ungrateful and he may have been so . 
But some indulgence is due to a man , with entries few on the credit side , and a terrible column of debits . 
Why , it is striped like a viper's loins ! I saw some hundreds in London and very cheap they are . 
They are made to be sold to the country people , such as you and me , dear and carefully kept they will last for almost half a year . 
'All this is not like you , John . 
All this is not one bit like you and your cheeks are not as they ought to be . 
I shall have to come home again , if the women worry my brother so . 
We always held together , John and we always will , you know . 
'You dear , I cried , 'there is nobody who understands me as you do . 
Lorna makes too much of me , and the rest they make too little . 
'Not mother oh , not mother , John ! 'No , mother makes too much , no doubt but wants it all for herself alone and reckons it as a part of her . 
She makes me more wroth than any one as if not only my life , but all my head and heart must seek from hers , and have no other thought or care . 
To this Annie would not hearken twice , but judging women by her faithful self , was quite vexed with me for speaking so . 
And then , to my surprise and sorrow , she would deliver no opinion as to what I ought to do until she had consulted darling Tom . 
Dear Tom knew much of the world , no doubt , especially the dark side of it . 
But to me it scarcely seemed becoming that my course of action with regard to the Lady Lorna Dugal should be referred to Tom Faggus , and depend upon his decision . 
However , I would not grieve Annie again by making light of her husband and so when he came in to dinner , the matter was laid before him . 
Now this man never confessed himself surprised , under any circumstances his knowledge of life being so profound , and his charity universal . 
And in the present case he vowed that he had suspected it all along , and could have thrown light upon Lorna's history , if we had seen fit to apply to him . 
allowed them to pass with nothing more than a pleasant exchange of courtesies , and a testimonial forced upon him , in the shape of a bottle of Burgundy wine . 
This the poor countess handed him and he twisted the cork out with his teeth , and drank her health with his hat off . 
Therefore I said to Squire Faggus , 'Come back from your highway days . 
You have married the daughter of an honest man and such talk is not fit for her . 
If you were right in robbing people , I am right in robbing you . 
Drop the one , or drop the other you cannot maintain them both . 
as if I had corded him to it , even as I spoke of doing . 
And he laid one hand on his breast in a way which made Annie creep softly to him , and look at me not like a sister . 
From no other would I have taken it . 
Nevertheless every word is true and I shall dwell on it when you are gone . 
If you never did good in your life before , John , my brother , you have done it now . 
He turned away , in bitter pain , that none might see his trouble and Annie , going along with him , looked as if I had killed our mother . 
CHAPTER LXI THEREFORE HE SEEKS COMFORT It was for poor Annie's sake that I had spoken my mind to her husband so freely , and even harshly . 
For we all knew she would break her heart , if Tom took to evil ways again . 
, but to set before him the folly of the thing , and the ruin to his own interests . 
Therefore I struck to the right , across the hills , for Dulverton . 
Pretty Ruth was in the main street of the town , with a basket in her hand , going home from the market . 
'Why , Cousin Ruth , you are grown , I exclaimed 'I do believe you are , Ruth . 
And you were almost too tall , already . 
Ruth's wits were gone and she lay before me , in such a helpless and senseless way that I could have killed vile Kickums . 
But I called to the men who were flocking around , to send up a surgeon , as quick as could be , to Master Reuben Huckaback's . 
There are times when a man is more vicious than any horse may vie with . 
I leaped from his back at once , and carried the maiden into her own sweet room . 
the manner of her little ride with me . 
Her hair was of a hazel brown , and full of waving readiness and with no concealment of the trick , she spread it over her eyes and face . 
'Darling , I said 'he has bitten you dreadfully show me your poor arm , dear . 
She pulled up her sleeve in the simplest manner , rather to look at it herself , than to show me where the wound was . 
, three sad gashes , edged with crimson , spoiled the flow of the pearly flesh . 
But Ruth , to my great amazement , drew away from me in bitter haste , as if I had been inserting instead of extracting poison . 
For the bite of a horse is most venomous especially when he sheds his teeth and far more to be feared than the bite of a dog , or even of a cat . 
And in my haste I had forgotten that Ruth might not know a word about this , and might doubt about my meaning , and the warmth of my osculation . 
But knowing her danger , I durst not heed her childishness , or her feelings . 
A maid with an elbow sharp , or knee , Hath cross words two , out of every three . 
'Don't be a fool , Cousin Ruth , I said , catching her so that she could not move 'the poison is soaking into you . 
'Ha , ha ! I see , he cried 'bite of a horse , they tell me . 
Very poisonous must be burned away . 
Sally , the iron in the fire . 
If you have a fire , this weather . 
Look , sir , how clean and fresh it is . 
'Bless my heart ! And so it is ! No need at all for cauterising . 
The epidermis will close over , and the cutis and the pellis . 
John Ridd , you ought to have studied medicine , with your healing powers . 
Half my virtue lies in touch . 
A clean and wholesome body , sir I have taught you the Latin grammar . 
I leave you in excellent hands , my dear , and they wait for me at shovel board . 
Bread and water poultice cold , to be renewed , tribus horis . 
John Ridd , I was at school with you , and you beat me very lamentably , when I tried to fight with you . 
You remember me not ? It is likely enough I am forced to take strong waters , John , from infirmity of the liver . 
Attend to my directions and I will call again in the morning . 
And in that melancholy plight , caring nothing for business , went one of the cleverest fellows ever known at Tiverton . 
He could write Latin verses a great deal faster than I could ever write English prose , and nothing seemed too great for him . 
especially she laughed about Annie's new fangled closet for clothes , or standing press , as she called it . 
'It is only to keep my best frocks in shape , Annie had explained to me 'hanging them up does ruin them so . 
But I own that I was afraid of it , John , until I had got all my best clothes there , and then I became very fond of it . 
But even now it frightens me sometimes in the moonlight . 
I had not intended to speak of this , but Ruth's face was so kind and earnest , that I could not stop myself . 
And if her heart be worth having , she will never let you give her up , for her grandeur , and her nobility . 
She pronounced those last few words , as I thought , with a little bitterness , unperceived by herself perhaps , for it was not in her appearance . 
, would have led her further into that subject . 
But she declined to follow , having now no more to say in a matter so removed from her . 
'She has nothing to relent about . 
I have never vexed nor injured her . 
My thoughts have never strayed from her . 
There is no one to compare with her . 
'Then keep her in that same mind about you . 
See now , I can advise no more . 
My arm is swelling painfully , in spite of all your goodness , and bitter task of surgeonship . 
I shall have another poultice on , and go to bed , I think , Cousin Ridd , if you will not hold me ungrateful . 
I am so sorry for your long walk . 
Surely it might be avoided . 
Give my love to dear Lizzie oh , the room is going round so . 
And she fainted into the arms of Sally , who was come just in time to fetch her no doubt she had been suffering agony all the time she talked to me . 
And now she was looking up the lane , at the rise of the harvest moon , in despair , as she said afterwards . 
And mother's dream was a happy one , when she knew my step at a furlong distant for the night was of those that carry sound thrice as far as day can . 
She recovered herself , when she was sure , and even made up her mind to scold me , and felt as if she could do it . 
, bless my heart and yours therewith , no room was left for scolding . 
She hugged me , and she clung to me and I looked at her , with duty made tenfold , and discharged by love . 
We said nothing to one another but all was right between us . 
She knew that the gift of cooking was not vouchsafed by God to her but sometimes she would do her best , by intellect to win it . 
Whereas it is no more to be won by intellect than is divine poetry . 
An amount of strong quick heart is needful , and the understanding must second it , in the one art as in the other . 
Now my fare was very choice for the next three days or more yet not turned out like Annie's . 
They could do a thing well enough on the fire but they could not put it on table so nor even have plates all piping hot . 
This was Annie's special gift born in her , and ready to cool with her like a plate borne away from the fireplace . 
I sighed sometimes about Lorna , and they thought it was about the plates . 
For nine Englishmen out of every ten believe that a bitter winter must breed a sour summer , and explain away topmost prices . 
While according to my experience , more often it would be otherwise , except for the public thinking so . 
However , I have said too much and if any farmer reads my book , he will vow that I wrote it for nothing else except to rob his family . 
CHAPTER LXII THE KING MUST NOT BE PRAYED FOR All our neighbourhood was surprised that the Doones had not ere now attacked , and probably made an end of us . 
, reported weekly from Plover's Barrows , whenever he could find a messenger . 
, yet we treated him so well , that he reported very highly of us , as loyal and true hearted lieges , and most devoted to our lord the King . 
We heard of it first in church , on Sunday , the eighth day of February , , from a cousin of John Fry , who had ridden over on purpose from Porlock . 
He came in just before the anthem , splashed and heated from his ride , so that every one turned and looked at him . 
, and he took the best way to do it . 
, up jumps young Sam Fry , and shouts , 'I forbid that there prai er . 
'No , replied Sam , not a whit abashed by the staring of all the parish 'no rebel , parson but a man who mislaiketh popery and murder . 
That there prai er be a prai er for the dead . 
And Sam rubbed his hands with enjoyment , at the effect he had produced . 
Warn't us quick to hear of 'un ? 'Can't be , said the minister 'the tidings can never have come so soon . 
Anyhow , he will want it all the more . 
Let us pray for His Gracious Majesty . 
And with that he proceeded as usual but nobody cried 'Amen , for fear of being entangled with Popery . 
in praying for the King , the least they could do on returning home was to pray that the King might not be dead , as his enemies had asserted . 
he was overwhelmed , at once , with so many invitations to dinner , that he scarce knew which of them to accept but decided in our favour . 
for the royal benefit , I resolved to ride to Porlock myself , directly after dinner , and make sure whether he were dead , or not . 
, as the leader of our thoughts in church , and handsome upon a guinea nevertheless I kept on thinking how his death would act on me . 
And here I saw it , many ways . 
In the first place , troubles must break out and we had eight and twenty ricks counting grain , and straw , and hay . 
was whispering , and plucking skirts , and making signs , among us . 
And the terror of the Doones helped greatly as a fruitful tree of lawlessness , and a good excuse for everybody . 
arose upon me the thought of Lorna , and how these things would affect her fate . 
Yet no message whatever had reached us neither any token even of her safety in London . 
Now riding sadly homewards , in the sunset of the early spring , I was more than ever touched with sorrow , and a sense of being , as it were , abandoned . 
that they began to weigh him down to sleepiness and frozen death . 
Not a sign of life was moving , nor was any change of view unless the wild wind struck the crest of some cold drift , and bowed it . 
Now , on the other hand , all was good . 
The open palm of spring was laid upon the yielding of the hills and each particular valley seemed to be the glove for a finger . 
All this lay upon my heart , without a word of thinking , spreading light and shadow there , and the soft delight of sadness . 
Nevertheless , I would it were the savage snow around me , and the piping of the restless winds , and the death of everything . 
For in those days I had Lorna . 
Then I thought of promise fair such as glowed around me , where the red rocks held the sun , when he was departed and the distant crags endeavoured to retain his memory . 
But as evening spread across them , shading with a silent fold , all the colour stole away all remembrance waned and died . 
'So it has been with love , I thought , 'and with simple truth and warmth . 
The maid has chosen the glittering stars , instead of the plain daylight . 
, and I tried to see things right and then judge aright about them . 
This , however , was more easy to attempt than to achieve and by the time I came down the hill , I was none the wiser . 
Only I could tell my mother that the King was dead for sure and she would have tried to cry , but for thought of her mourning . 
There was not a moment for lamenting . 
, and prayed her to go on until the King should be alive again . 
Patterns may do very well but don't cut up any more good stuff . 
Hence the Snowes beat us by a day and both old Betty and Lizzie laid the blame upon me , as usual . 
Therefore we listened to rumours gladly , and shook our heads with gravity , and predicted , every man something , but scarce any two the same . 
Nevertheless , in our part , things went on as usual , until the middle of June was nigh . 
, while we were talking of the hay crop , and of a great sheep stealer , round the corner came a man upon a piebald horse looking flagged and weary . 
'Papist yourself , be you ? said the fellow , not daring to answer much 'then take this , and read it . 
No one dared attempt to stop me , for my mood had not been sweet of late and of course they knew my strength . 
He had set up his blue flag in the tap room , and was teaching every one . 
Arl the news coom from them nowadays , instead of from here , as her ought to do . 
If Jan Ridd say it be true , I will try almost to belave it . 
Hath the good Duke landed , sir ? And she looked at me over a foaming cup , and blew the froth off , and put more in . 
'I have no doubt it is true enough , I answered , before drinking 'and too true , Mistress Pugsley . 
Many a poor man will die but none shall die from our parish , nor from Brendon , if I can help it . 
For they think themselves much before you in wit , and under no obligation , but rather conferring a favour , by doing the thing that you do . 
For the next fortnight we were daily troubled with conflicting rumours , each man relating what he desired , rather than what he had right , to believe . 
, for then we should have won trusty news , as well as good consideration . 
But even Sergeant Bloxham , much against his will , was gone , having left his heart with our Lizzie , and a collection of all his writings . 
All the soldiers had been ordered away at full speed for Exeter , to join the Duke of Albemarle , or if he were gone , to follow him . 
, we must take our chance of Doones , or any other enemies . 
Therefore I withheld my judgment , fearing to be triumphed over , if it should happen to miss the mark . 
But mother and Lizzie , ten times in a day , predicted all they could imagine and their prophecies increased in strength according to contradiction . 
And before the end arrived , those people believed that they had been right all along , and that we had concealed the truth from them . 
in the troubles , and the conflict , and the cruel work coming afterwards . 
If ever I had made up my mind to anything in all my life , it was at this particular time , and as stern and strong as could be . 
But all my policy went for nothing , through a few touches of feeling . 
, and the swathe falling heavier over the scythe than ever I could remember it . 
We were drenched with rain almost every day but the mowing must be done somehow and we must trust to God for the haymaking . 
Therefore I wondered who our noble visitor could be . 
And at first she could not speak to me . 
But presently having sat down a little , and received much praise for her baby , she smiled and blushed , and found her tongue as if she had never gone from us . 
'She , cried Annie , with all the contempt that could be compressed in a syllable . 
'Well , John , no doubt you are right about it . 
I will try not to notice things . 
But it is a hard thing , after all my care , to see everything going to ruin . 
But what can be expected of a girl who knows all the kings of Carthage ? 'There were no kings of Carthage , Annie . 
They were called , why let me see they were called oh , something else . 
'Never mind what they were called , said Annie 'will they cook our dinner for us ? But now , John , I am in such trouble . 
All this talk is make believe . 
'Tell me what it is , my dear . 
Any grief of yours will vex me greatly but I will try to bear it . 
'Then , John , it is just this . 
Tom has gone off with the rebels and you must , oh , you must go after him . 
'Oh , you never can have loved Lorna ! No wonder you gave her up so ! John , you can love nobody , but your oat ricks , and your hay ricks . 
'I am very sorry , John . 
Dear John , I am so sorry . 
Even for the sake of Tom , I cannot leave all helpless . 
The oat ricks and the hay ricks , which are my only love , they are welcome to make cinders of . 
But I will not have mother treated so nor even little Lizzie , although you scorn your sister so . 
'Oh , John , I do think you are the hardest , as well as the softest of all the men I know . 
Not even a woman's bitter word but what you pay her out for . 
Will you never understand that we are not like you , John ? We say all sorts of spiteful things , without a bit of meaning . 
John , for God's sake fetch Tom home and then revile me as you please , and I will kneel and thank you . 
I asked her what she was going to risk . 
And then she said , 'Now to your mowers , John and make the most of this fine afternoon kiss your godson before you go . 
And I , being used to obey her , in little things of that sort , kissed the baby , and took my cans , and went back to my scythe again . 
By the time I came home it was dark night , and pouring again with a foggy rain , such as we have in July , even more than in January . 
, and she wanted to know all sorts of things , and she adored the baby . 
Therefore Annie was allowed to attend to me , as she used to do . 
'Not so , I replied , misliking the job , 'all I promised was to go , if this house were assured against any onslaught of the Doones . 
'Just so and here is that assurance . 
With these words she drew forth a paper , and laid it on my knee with triumph , enjoying my amazement . 
This , as you may suppose was great not only at the document , but also at her possession of it . 
how she had procured that paper . 
It was both a clever and courageous act and would have seemed to me , at first sight , far beyond Annie's power . 
But none may gauge a woman's power , when her love and faith are moved . 
The first thing Annie had done was this she made herself look ugly . 
This was not an easy thing but she had learned a great deal from her husband , upon the subject of disguises . 
Annie made the old man drive her within easy reach of the Doone gate , whose position she knew well enough , from all our talk about it . 
And there she bade the old man stay , until she should return to him . 
She said that she bore important tidings for Sir Counsellor himself , and must be conducted to him . 
To him accordingly she was led , without even any hoodwinking , for she had spectacles over her eyes , and made believe not to see ten yards . 
She flung her patches on the floor , amid the old man's laughter , and let her tucked up hair come down and then went up and kissed him . 
'Worthy and reverend Counsellor , I have a favour to ask , she began . 
'So I should think from your proceedings , the old man interrupted 'ah , if I were half my age' 'If you were , I would not sue so . 
But most excellent Counsellor , you owe me some amends , you know , for the way in which you robbed me . 
'Beyond a doubt I do , my dear . 
You have put it rather strongly and it might offend some people . 
Nevertheless I own my debt , having so fair a creditor . 
My best escort was in my cloak , after we made the cream to rise . 
Ha , ha ! The unholy spell . 
'You shall not have ill luck , my dear . 
I have heard all about your marriage to a very noble highwayman . 
Ah , you made a mistake in that you were worthy of a Doone , my child your frying was a blessing meant for those who can appreciate . 
would be out of the way all the while , the old man readily undertook that our house should not be assaulted , nor our property molested , until my return . 
Now , look at it as I would , there was no excuse left for me , after the promise given . 
Dear Annie had not only cheated the Doones , but also had gotten the best of me , by a pledge to a thing impossible . 
And I bitterly said , 'I am not like Lorna a pledge once given , I keep it . 
'I will not have a word against Lorna , cried Annie 'I will answer for her truth as surely as I would for my own or yours , John . 
And with that she vanquished me . 
At last , however , we convinced her that I was in earnest , and must be off in the early morning , and leave John Fry with the hay crop . 
But I laid my hand upon dear mother's lips because what must be , must be and if mother and daughter stayed at home , better in love than in quarrelling . 
For this I claim no bravery . 
, still even this was better than to have the mows and houses fired , as I had nightly expected , and been worn out with the worry of it . 
, to ride thither , now and again , to inquire what the doctor thought of her . 
Not that her wounds were long in healing , but that people can scarcely be too careful and too inquisitive , after a great horse bite . 
My duty was all that I wished to do and none could harm me for doing that . 
And I begged my cousin to give me good speed , instead of talking dolefully . 
Upon this she changed her manner wholly , becoming so lively and cheerful that I was convinced of her indifference , and surprised even more than gratified . 
'Go and earn your spurs , Cousin Ridd , she said 'you are strong enough for anything . 
Oh , John Ridd ! Oh , John Ridd ! 'Nothing of the sort , said I 'what a hurry you are in ! I am for the King of course . 
'But not enough to fight for him . 
Only enough to vote , I suppose , or drink his health , or shout for him . 
'I can't make you out to day , Cousin Ruth you are nearly as bad as Lizzie . 
You do not say any bitter things , but you seem to mean them . 
'No , cousin , think not so of me . 
It is far more likely that I say them , without meaning them . 
'Anyhow , it is not like you . 
And I know not what I can have done in any way , to vex you . 
'Dear me , nothing , Cousin Ridd you never do anything to vex me . 
'Then I hope I shall do something now , Ruth , when I say good bye . 
God knows if we ever shall meet again , Ruth but I hope we may . 
'To be sure we shall , she answered in her brightest manner . 
'Try not to look wretched , John you are as happy as a Maypole . 
'And you as a rose in May , I said 'and pretty nearly as pretty . 
Give my love to Uncle Ben and I trust him to keep on the winning side . 
'Of that you need have no misgivings . 
Never yet has he failed of it . 
'Oh , if that is all , just fetch the stool and I will do my best , cousin . 
'I pray you be not so vexatious you always used to do it nicely , without any stool , Ruth . 
'Ah , but you are grown since then , and become a famous man , John Ridd , and a member of the nobility . 
Go your way , and win your spurs . 
I want no lip service . 
Being at the end of my wits , I did even as she ordered me . 
And Kickums never wanted spurs but always went tail foremost , if anybody offered them for his consideration . 
CHAPTER LXIV SLAUGHTER IN THE MARSHES We rattled away at a merry pace , out of the town of Dulverton my horse being gaily fed , and myself quite fit again for going . 
And now to see what comes of it . 
So I put my horse across the moorland and he threw his chest out bravely . 
Let him keep to his farm , and his bacon , and his wrestling , and constant feeding . 
, I will try to set down only what is needful for my story , and the clearing of my character , and the good name of our parish . 
And it was rumoured among them , that the 'popish army , as they called it , was to be attacked that very night , and with God's assistance beaten . 
But all I did was to bolt the door not an inch would I budge , unless the house , and even my bed , were on fire . 
And at length , being able to open mine eyes , I saw the old landlady , with a candle , heavily wondering at me . 
'Can't you let me alone ? I grumbled . 
'I have paid for my bed , mistress and I won't get up for any one . 
'I would rather stop a bed , said I 'what have I to do with fighting ? I am for King James , if any . 
'Then thou mayest even stop a bed , the old woman muttered sulkily . 
'A would never have laboured half an hour to awake a Papisher . 
'I lack no Zummerzett maid , mistress I have a fairer than your brown things and for her alone would I strike a blow . 
But those people in East Somerset know nothing about wrestling . 
Devon is the headquarters of the art and Devon is the county of my chief love . 
that which flattened vanity cannot pay , and will not sue for . 
, and set out to see the worst of it . 
Therefore I was guided mainly by the sound of guns and trumpets , in riding out of the narrow ways , and into the open marshes . 
Now fog is a thing that I understand , and can do with well enough , where I know the country but here I had never been before . 
Yet the gleam of water always makes the fog more difficult like a curtain on a mirror none can tell the boundaries . 
And here we had broad water patches , in and out , inlaid on land , like mother of pearl in brown Shittim wood . 
, all this rush and pause of fear passed or lingered on my path . 
Therefore I encouraged him with a soft and genial whistle , and Kickums did his best to tempt him with a snort of inquiry . 
However , nothing would suit that nag , except to enjoy his new freedom and he capered away with his tail set on high , and the stirrup irons clashing under him . 
West Zuyland , or Zealand , so named perhaps from its situation amid this inland sea . 
Here the King's troops had been quite lately , and their fires were still burning but the men themselves had been summoned away by the night attack of the rebels . 
Hence I procured for my guide a young man who knew the district thoroughly , and who led me by many intricate ways to the rear of the rebel army . 
We came upon a broad open moor striped with sullen water courses , shagged with sedge , and yellow iris , and in the drier part with bilberries . 
For by this time it was four o'clock , and the summer sun , rising wanly , showed us all the ghastly scene . 
And to see how the corses lay some , as fair as death in sleep with the smile of placid valour , and of noble manhood , hovering yet on the silent lips . 
in prayer for dear ones left behind , or in high thanksgiving . 
And of these men there was nothing in their broad blue eyes to fear . 
must have sickened of all desire to be great among mankind . 
'Arl oop wi Moonmo' , shouted one big fellow , a miner of the Mendip hills , whose weapon was a pickaxe 'na oose to vaight na moor . 
Wend thee hame , yoong mon agin . 
Upon this I stopped my horse , desiring not to be shot for nothing and eager to aid some poor sick people , who tried to lift their arms to me . 
And this I did to the best of my power , though void of skill in the business and more inclined to weep with them than to check their weeping . 
If ever a horse tried hard to speak , it was Winnie at that moment . 
I went to her side and patted her but that was not what she wanted . 
that she was coming to his aid , and bringing one who might be trusted , of the higher race that kill . 
met poor Winnie front to front and she , being as quick as thought , lowered her nose to sniff at it . 
It might be a message from her master for it made a mournful noise . 
, I would have given that year's hay crop for a bit of a hill , or a thicket of oaks , or almost even a badger's earth . 
nevertheless , I cannot help it those were my feelings and I set them down , because they made a mark on me . 
So , in cold blood riding on , and yet ashamed that a man should shrink where a horse went bravely , I cast a bitter blame upon the reckless ways of Winnie . 
Nearly all were scattered now . 
The last scene of this piteous play was acting , just as I rode up . 
Then the cavalry of the King , with their horses at full speed , dashed from either side upon the helpless mob of countrymen . 
A few pikes feebly levelled met them but they shot the pikemen , drew swords , and helter skelter leaped into the shattered and scattering mass . 
Right and left they hacked and hewed I could hear the snapping of scythes beneath them , and see the flash of their sweeping swords . 
How it must end was plain enough , even to one like myself , who had never beheld such a battle before . 
, stopped in front of a low black shed , such as we call a 'linhay . 
And here she uttered a little greeting , in a subdued and softened voice , hoping to obtain an answer , such as her master was wont to give in a cheery manner . 
leaped from his back , and followed . 
There I found her sniffing gently , but with great emotion , at the body of Tom Faggus . 
A corpse poor Tom appeared to be , if ever there was one in this world and I turned away , and felt unable to keep altogether from weeping . 
But the mare either could not understand , or else would not believe it . 
Upon this I took courage , and handled poor Tom , which being young I had feared at first to do . 
, gaping and welling in his right side , from which a piece seemed to be torn away . 
I bound it up with some of my linen , so far as I knew how just to stanch the flow of blood , until we could get a doctor . 
Then I gave him a little weak brandy and water , which he drank with the greatest eagerness , and made sign to me for more of it . 
But not knowing how far it was right to give cordial under the circumstances , I handed him unmixed water that time thinking that he was too far gone to perceive the difference . 
But herein I wrong Tom Faggus for he shook his head and frowned at me . 
Even at the door of death , he would not drink what Adam drank , by whom came death into the world . 
So I gave him a little more eau de vie , and he took it most submissively . 
With the stay of my arm he sat upright , and faintly looked about him as if at the end of a violent dream , too much for his power of mind . 
Then he managed to whisper , 'Is Winnie hurt ? 'As sound as a roach , I answered . 
'Then so am I , said he 'put me upon her back , John she and I die together . 
But he told me , with many breaks and pauses , that unless I obeyed his orders , he would tear off all my bandages , and accept no further aid from me . 
While I was yet hesitating , a storm of horse at full gallop went by , tearing , swearing , bearing away all the country before them . 
Only a little pollard hedge kept us from their blood shot eyes . 
Winnie and I die together . 
Seeing this strong bent of his mind , stronger than any pains of death , I even did what his feeble eyes sometimes implored , and sometimes commanded . 
Look out for yourself , John Ridd . 
He sucked his lips , and the mare went off , as easy and swift as a swallow . 
No wonder Tom said , Look out for yourself ! I shall look out from a prison window , or perhaps even out of a halter . 
Moreover , the linhay itself was full of very ancient cow dung than which there is no balmier and more maiden soporific . 
Hence I resolved , upon the whole , though grieving about breakfast , to light a pipe , and go to sleep or at least until the hot sun should arouse the flies . 
I looked up , with a mighty yawn and saw twenty , or so , of foot soldiers . 
'Do you wish to know the way out again ? I asked , very quietly , as being no braggadocio . 
Moreover their dress was outrageous , and their address still worse . 
However , I had wiser let them alone , as will appear afterwards . 
, so that only two could come at me at once and I must be very much out of training , if I could not manage two of them . 
'Go you first , Bob , I heard them say 'you are the biggest man of us and Dick the wrestler along of you . 
Us will back you up , boy . 
'I'll warrant I'll draw the badger , said Bob 'and not a tooth will I leave him . 
But mind , for the honour of Kirke's lambs , every man stands me a glass of gin . 
Then he , and another man , made a rush , and the others came double quick march on their heels . 
So they hung back whispering and before they had made up their minds , I rushed into the midst of them . 
The suddenness and the weight of my onset took them wholly by surprise and for once in their lives , perhaps , Kirke's lambs were worthy of their name . 
Like a flock of sheep at a dog's attack they fell away , hustling one another , and my only difficulty was not to tumble over them . 
, I ventured to go rather fast on my way , with doubt and uneasiness urging me . 
And now my way was home again . 
had led , or seemed likely to lead him . 
And how proud would my mother be and ah well , there was nobody else to be proud of me now . 
'We have won the victory , my lord King , and we mean to enjoy it . 
Down from thy horse , and have a stoup of cider , thou big rebel . 
'No rebel am I. My name is John Ridd . 
I belong to the side of the King and I want some breakfast . 
These fellows were truly hospitable that much will I say for them . 
Now these men upset everything . 
And a brawl there was , without any error , except of the men who hit their friends , and those who defended their enemies . 
it was in my power at any moment to take horse and go . 
And this would have been my wisest plan , and a very great saving of money but somehow I felt as if it would be a mean thing to slip off so . 
Even while I was hesitating , and the men were breaking each other's heads , a superior officer rode up , with his sword drawn , and his face on fire . 
'Ha , ha a farmer art thou ? Those fellows always pay the best . 
Good farmer , come to yon barren tree thou shalt make it fruitful . 
And now I saw , and repented deeply of my careless folly , in stopping with those boon companions , instead of being far away . 
, as well as the flavour of their tobacco , had made me quite forget my duty to the farm and to myself . 
Nevertheless , however pure and godly might be their motives , I beheld myself in a grievous case , and likely to get the worst of it . 
But being aware of the coming smack , I thrust forth a pair of teeth upon which the knuckles of my good friend made a melancholy shipwreck . 
But , unluckily as it proved for him , my right arm was free for a moment and therewith I dealt him such a blow , that he never spake again . 
For this thing I have often grieved but the provocation was very sore to the pride of a young man and I trust that God has forgiven me . 
I spread my hands before my eyes , not being so brave as some men and hoping , in some foolish way , to cover my heart with my elbows . 
I heard the breath of all around , as if my skull were a sounding board and knew even how the different men were fingering their triggers . 
And a cold sweat broke all over me , as the Colonel , prolonging his enjoyment , began slowly to say , 'Fire . 
But while he was yet dwelling on the 'F , the hoofs of a horse dashed out on the road , and horse and horseman flung themselves betwixt me and the gun muzzles . 
So narrowly was I saved that one man could not check his trigger his musket went off , and the ball struck the horse on the withers , and scared him exceedingly . 
But I fancied that the name of the Lord Chief Justice Jeffreys was spoken more than once , and with emphasis and deference . 
'Colonel Kirke , I will answer for him , Master Stickles replied , with a grave bow , and one hand on his breast 'John Ridd , you are my prisoner . 
Follow me , John Ridd . 
Upon that , those precious lambs flocked away , leaving the rope still around me and some were glad , and some were sorry , not to see me swinging . 
as he answered , 'Turn for turn , John . 
You saved my life from the Doones and by the mercy of God , I have saved you from a far worse company . 
Let your sister Annie know it . 
No doubt but what he felt a certain interest in me but his interest was not devotion and man might go his way and be hanged , rather than horse would meet hardship . 
For this I do not blame him . 
It is the manner of mankind . 
by some of the King's troopers , rather than find his way home , and spread distress among our people . 
Yet , knowing his nature , I doubted if any could catch , or catching would keep him . 
'I will pay no price whatever , I answered , 'neither will I fly . 
An hour agone I would have fled for the sake of my mother , and the farm . 
But now that I have been taken prisoner , and my name is known , if I fly , the farm is forfeited and my mother and sister must starve . 
Moreover , I have done no harm I have borne no weapons against the King , nor desired the success of his enemies . 
I like not that the son of a bona roba should be King of England neither do I count the Papists any worse than we are . 
If they have aught to try me for , I will stand my trial . 
'Then to London thou must go , my son . 
There is no such thing as trial here we hang the good folk without it , which saves them much anxiety . 
But quicken thy step , good John I have influence with Lord Churchill , and we must contrive to see him , ere the foreigner falls to work again . 
Lord Churchill is a man of sense , and imprisons nothing but his money . 
We were lucky enough to find this nobleman , who has since become so famous by his foreign victories . 
I liked his face well enough , but thought there was something false about it . 
And to prevent her anxiety , I did my best to send a letter through good Sergeant Bloxham , of whom I heard as quartered with Dumbarton's regiment at Chedzuy . 
But that regiment was away in pursuit and I was forced to entrust my letter to a man who said that he knew him , and accepted a shilling to see to it . 
The sight of London warmed my heart with various emotions , such as a cordial man must draw from the heart of all humanity . 
Here there are quick ways and manners , and the rapid sense of knowledge , and the power of understanding , ere a word be spoken . 
Whereas at Oare , you must say a thing three times , very slowly , before it gets inside the skull of the good man you are addressing . 
And yet we are far more clever there than in any parish for fifteen miles . 
, yet there must be some large chance , or the little chance might be enlarged , of falling in with the maiden somehow , and learning how her mind was set . 
If against me , all should be over . 
I was not the man to sigh and cry for love , like a Romeo none should even guess my grief , except my sister Annie . 
But if Lorna loved me still as in my heart of hearts I hoped then would I for no one care , except her own delicious self . 
Rank and title , wealth and grandeur , all should go to the winds , before they scared me from my own true love . 
The landlord said that this was nothing and that he expected , in two days at the utmost , a very fresh young Irishman , for whom they would all forsake me . 
Nevertheless , I declined to wait , unless he could find me a hayrick to sleep in for the insects of grass only tickle . 
He assured me that no hayrick could now be found in London upon which I was forced to leave him , and with mutual esteem we parted . 
The next night I had better luck , being introduced to a decent widow , of very high Scotch origin . 
That house was swept and garnished so , that not a bit was left to eat , for either man or insect . 
The change of air having made me hungry , I wanted something after supper being quite ready to pay for it , and showing my purse as a symptom . 
For these were the very hours in which the people of fashion , and the high world , were wont to appear to the rest of mankind , so as to encourage them . 
And of course by this time , the Lady Lorna was high among people of fashion , and was not likely to be seen out of fashionable hours . 
But alas , my money was getting low and the privilege of seeing my betters was more and more denied to me , as my cash drew shorter . 
For a man must have a good coat at least , and the pockets not wholly empty , before he can look at those whom God has created for his ensample . 
For God's sake show a little pity , though you may not feel it . 
Such behaviour might be comely in a love lorn boy , a page to some grand princess but I , John Ridd , would never stoop to the lowering of love so . 
Nevertheless I heard of Lorna , from my worthy furrier , almost every day , and with a fine exaggeration . 
This honest man was one of those who in virtue of their trade , and nicety of behaviour , are admitted into noble life , to take measurements , and show patterns . 
If you think so you are wrong , sir . 
She comes not of the sandy Scotch race , with high cheek bones , and raw shoulder blades , who set up pillars in their courtyards . 
But she comes of the very best Scotch blood , descended from the Norsemen . 
And her father was descended from the King Dugal , who fought against Alexander the Great . 
No , no , Master Ridd none of your promiscuous blood , such as runs in the veins of half our modern peerage . 
'Not at all , not at all , my lad . 
That is not the way to regard it . 
We look up at the well born men , and side ways at the base born . 
'Then we are all base born ourselves . 
I will look up to no man , except for what himself has done . 
'Come , Master Ridd , you might be lashed from New gate to Tyburn and back again , once a week , for a twelvemonth , if some people heard you . 
Keep your tongue more close , young man or here you lodge no longer albeit I love your company , which smells to me of the hayfield . 
Ah , I have not seen a hayfield for nine and twenty years , John Ridd . 
The cursed moths keep me at home , every day of the summer . 
'Spread your furs on the haycocks , I answered very boldly 'the indoor moth cannot abide the presence of the outdoor ones . 
'Is it so ? he answered 'I never thought of that before . 
And yet I have known such strange things happen in the way of fur , that I can well believe it . 
For I knew a little about grubs , and the ignorance concerning them , which we have no right to put up with . 
But all these only made me sigh , and wish that I were born to them . 
From Master Ramsack I discovered that the nobleman to whose charge Lady Lorna had been committed , by the Court of Chancery , was Earl Brandir of Lochawe , her poor mother's uncle . 
And the worthy furrier , having influence with the door keepers , kindly obtained admittance for me , one Sunday , into the antechamber . 
Then the doors of the chapel were thrown wide open and though I could only see a little , being in the corner so , I thought that it was beautiful . 
This last thing amazed me more than all , for our dips never will come clear , melt the mutton fat how you will . 
Be that as it may , when the King and Queen crossed the threshold , a mighty flourish of trumpets arose , and a waving of banners . 
were to attend that day in state and some went in , and some stayed out , and it made me think of the difference betwixt the ewes and the wethers . 
For the ewes will go wherever you lead them but the wethers will not , having strong opinions , and meaning to abide by them . 
And one man I noticed was of the wethers , to wit the Duke of Norfolk who stopped outside with the sword of state , like a beadle with a rapping rod . 
This has taken more to tell than the time it happened in . 
, but none was so well worth eye service as my own beloved Lorna . 
She entered modestly and shyly , with her eyes upon the ground , knowing the rudeness of the gallants , and the large sum she was priced at . 
Her dress was of the purest white , very sweet and simple , without a line of ornament , for she herself adorned it . 
All my heart , and all my mind , gathered themselves upon her . 
Would she see me , or would she pass ? Was there instinct in our love ? By some strange chance she saw me . 
trod on the skirt of her clear white dress , with the quickness taught her by many a scene of danger , she looked up , and her eyes met mine . 
But the colour of her pure clear cheeks was nearly as deep as that of my own , when she went on for the religious work . 
And the shining of her eyes was owing to an unpaid debt of tears . 
Upon the whole I was satisfied . 
even tried to 'cut' me . 
Whether this low phrase is born of their own stupid meanness , or whether it comes of necessity exercised on a man without money , I know not , and I care not . 
should be quartered without quarter . 
All these proud thoughts rose within me as the lovely form of Lorna went inside , and was no more seen . 
Nevertheless , I waited on as my usual manner is . 
For to be beaten , while running away , is ten times worse than to face it out , and take it , and have done with it . 
, came up to me , working sideways , in the manner of a female crab . 
'This is not to my liking , I said 'if aught thou hast , speak plainly while they make that horrible noise inside . 
Although the skin of my palms was thick , I felt a little suggestion there , as of a gentle leaf in spring , fearing to seem too forward . 
I paid the man , and he went happy for the standard of heretical silver is purer than that of the Catholics . 
Then I lifted up my little billet and in that dark corner read it , with a strong rainbow of colours coming from the angled light . 
And in mine eyes there was enough to make rainbow of strongest sun , as my anger clouded off . 
All of it was done in pencil but as plain as plain could be . 
In my coffin it shall lie , with my ring and something else . 
Therefore will I not expose it to every man who buys this book , and haply thinks that he has bought me to the bottom of my heart . 
that my love told me , in her letter , just to come and see her . 
I ran away , and could not stop . 
To behold even her , at the moment , would have dashed my fancy's joy . 
Yet my brain was so amiss , that I must do something . 
, into the quiet stream I leaped , and swam as far as London Bridge , and ate nobler dinner afterwards . 
I felt myself to be getting on better than at any time since the last wheat harvest , as I took the lane to Kensington upon the Monday evening . 
For although no time was given in my Lorna's letter , I was not inclined to wait more than decency required . 
The lanes and fields between Charing Cross and the village of Kensington , are , or were at that time , more than reasonably infested with footpads and with highwaymen . 
However , my stature and holly club kept these fellows from doing more than casting sheep's eyes at me . 
Therefore I sang a song in the broadest Exmoor dialect , which caused no little amazement in the minds of all who met me . 
When I came to Earl Brandir's house , my natural modesty forbade me to appear at the door for guests therefore I went to the entrance for servants and retainers . 
Here , to my great surprise , who should come and let me in but little Gwenny Carfax , whose very existence had almost escaped my recollection . 
Her mistress , no doubt , had seen me coming , and sent her to save trouble . 
I followed her to a little room , furnished very daintily and there she ordered me to wait , in a most ungracious manner . 
'Well , thought I , 'if the mistress and the maid are alike in temper , better it had been for me to abide at Master Ramsack's . 
Lorna , in her perfect beauty , stood before the crimson folds , and her dress was all pure white , and her cheeks were rosy pink , and her lips were scarlet . 
The hand she offered me I took , and raised it to my lips with fear , as a thing too good for me . 
'Is that all ? she whispered and then her eyes gleamed up at me and in another instant , she was weeping on my breast . 
'Yes , it is , John . 
Nothing else should ever be . 
Oh , why have you behaved so ? 'I am behaving . 
I replied , 'to the very best of my ability . 
There is no other man in the world could hold you so , without kissing you . 
'Then why don't you do it , John ? asked Lorna , looking up at me , with a flash of her old fun . 
Now this matter , proverbially , is not for discussion , and repetition . 
Enough that we said nothing more than , 'Oh , John , how glad I am ! and 'Lorna , Lorna Lorna ! for about five minutes . 
Then my darling drew back proudly , with blushing cheeks , and tear bright eyes , she began to cross examine me . 
'Master John Ridd , you shall tell the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth . 
I have been in Chancery , sir and can detect a story . 
'Simply for this cause , I answered , 'that my old friend and true love , took not the smallest heed of me . 
Nor knew I where to find her . 
'What ! cried Lorna and nothing more being overcome with wondering and much inclined to fall away , but for my assistance . 
, Mistress Ruth I forget her name but something like a towel . 
'Then Ruth is my best friend , she answered , 'and is worthy of you , dear John . 
And now for the head traitor . 
I have often suspected it but she looks me in the face , and wishes fearful things , which I cannot repeat . 
With these words , she moved an implement such as I had not seen before , and which made a ringing noise at a serious distance . 
'Gwenny , began my Lorna , in a tone of high rank and dignity , 'go and fetch the letters which I gave you at various times for despatch to Mistress Ridd . 
'I don't want to look at 'ee . 
'Ee shall have every farden of it . 
And so she flung out of the room . 
Your father shall know the whole , Gwenny , unless you tell the truth . 
, because you never told me falsehood and you never could , you know . 
'Well , I am not so sure of that . 
I think I could tell any lie , to have you , darling , all my own . 
And perhaps it might be right . 
To other people besides us two . 
But you could not do it to me , John . 
You never could do it to me , you know . 
Before I quite perceived my way to the bottom of the distinction although beyond doubt a valid one Gwenny came back with a leathern bag , and tossed it upon the table . 
Not a word did she vouchsafe to us but stood there , looking injured . 
'Go , and get your letters , John , said Lorna very gravely 'or at least your mother's letters , made of messages to you . 
As for Gwenny , she shall go before Lord Justice Jeffreys . 
I knew that Lorna meant it not but thought that the girl deserved a frightening as indeed she did . 
But we both mistook the courage of this child of Cornwall . 
She stepped upon a little round thing , in the nature of a stool , such as I never had seen before , and thus delivered her sentiments . 
'And you may take me , if you please , before the great Lord Jeffreys . 
I have done no more than duty , though I did it crookedly , and told a heap of lies , for your sake . 
And pretty gratitude I gets . 
'Much gratitude you have shown , replied Lorna , 'to Master Ridd , for all his kindness and his goodness to you . 
'What made you treat me so , little Gwenny ? I asked , for Lorna would not ask lest the reply should vex me . 
'Because 'ee be'est below her so . 
Her shanna' have a poor farmering chap , not even if her were a Carnishman . 
It is the only way to punish her , she continued to me , when the maid was gone , in a storm of sobbing and weeping . 
'Now , for the next three days , she will scarcely touch a morsel of food , and scarcely do a thing but cry . 
Make up your mind to one thing , John if you mean to take me , for better for worse , you will have to take Gwenny with me . 
It was not my place to say much , lest I should appear to use an improper and selfish influence . 
, the thoughts which my Lorna entertained would be enough to prove her madness . 
But I believe it was ever since you came , with your stockings off , and the loaches . 
a noble maid by my selfishness . 
Her flash of pride at these last words made her look like an empress and I was about to explain myself better , but she put forth her hand and stopped me . 
'I think that condition should rather have proceeded from me . 
You are mistaken , Master Ridd , in supposing that I would think of receiving you in secret . 
It was a different thing in Glen Doone , where all except yourself were thieves , and when I was but a simple child , and oppressed with constant fear . 
You are quite right in threatening to visit me thus no more but I think you might have waited for an invitation , sir . 
'And you are quite right , Lady Lorna , in pointing out my presumption . 
It is a fault that must ever be found in any speech of mine to you . 
'Now , will you allow me just to explain my own view of this matter , John ? said she , once more my darling . 
'It may be a very foolish view , but I shall never change it . 
Please not to interrupt me , dear , until you have heard me to the end . 
In the first place , it is quite certain that neither you nor I can be happy without the other . 
Then what stands between us ? Worldly position , and nothing else . 
I have no more education than you have , John Ridd nay , and not so much . 
My birth and ancestry are not one whit more pure than yours , although they may be better known . 
As for difference of religion , we allow for one another , neither having been brought up in a bitterly pious manner . 
And worldly position means wealth , and title , and the right to be in great houses , and the pleasure of being envied . 
I have not been here for a year , John , without learning something . 
And who are those two , think you ? 'Gwenny , for one , I answered . 
'Yes , Gwenny , for one . 
And the queen , for the other . 
, and the other too high above . 
As for the women who dislike me , without having even heard my voice , I simply have nothing to do with them . 
As for the men who covet me , for my land and money , I merely compare them with you , John Ridd and all thought of them is over . 
Oh , John , you must never forsake me , however cross I am to you . 
I thought you would have gone , just now and though I would not move to stop you , my heart would have broken . 
'You don't catch me go in a hurry , I answered very sensibly , 'when the loveliest maiden in all the world , and the best , and the dearest , loves me . 
Upon that point , I will say no more , lest you should grow conceited , John if anything could make you so . 
But I do assure you that half London however , upon that point also I will check my power of speech , lest you think me conceited . 
To me it is the very sweetest of all sweetest wisdom . 
'My uncle will come home in less than half an hour , dear and you are not the one to take a side passage , and avoid him . 
I shall tell him that you have been here and that I mean you to come again . 
For now , in turn , and elegance , and richness , and variety , there was nothing to compare with her face , unless it were her figure . 
Therefore I gave in , and said , 'Darling , do just what you please . 
Only make no rogue of me . 
For that she gave me the simplest , kindest , and sweetest of all kisses and I went down the great stairs grandly , thinking of nothing else but that . 
CHAPTER LXVIII JOHN IS JOHN NO LONGER It would be hard for me to tell the state of mind in which I lived for a long time after this . 
Therein I found addressed to Colonel Jeremiah Stickles , in Lizzie's best handwriting , half a side of the dried deer's flesh , in which he rejoiced so greatly . 
Moreover , to myself there was a letter full of good advice , excellently well expressed , and would have been of the greatest value , if I had cared to read it . 
And this plan had been found to answer well , and to save much trouble on both sides , so that everybody wondered it had not been done before . 
This hanging of so many Doones caused some indignation among people who were used to them and it seemed for a while to check the rest from any spirit of enterprise . 
that good Tom Faggus was at home again , and nearly cured of his dreadful wound but intended to go to war no more , only to mind his family . 
For now his design was to lead a new life , and be in charity with all men . 
Many better men than he had been hanged , he saw no cause to doubt but by the grace of God he hoped himself to cheat the gallows . 
This nobleman , being as deaf as a post , and of a very solid mind , could never be brought to understand the nature of my thoughts towards Lorna . 
, he patted me on the back , and declared that his doors would ever be open to me , and that I could not come too often . 
would in common conscience approve of . 
But not to be too nice about that let me tell how these things were . 
It is mean of me to conceal it . 
Lorna , however , looked at me for her eyes told more than tongue as much as to say , 'Well , you are a stupid . 
We agreed to let that subject rest . 
I believe if we could only get him to Plover's Barrows for a month , he would be able to hear again . 
'Well , said I , 'God settles that . 
Or at any rate , He leaves us time to think about those questions , when we are over fifty . 
Now let me know what you want , Lorna . 
The idea of my being seventy ! But you would still be beautiful . 
This was not the first time we had spoken of the matter . 
He has made all arrangements accordingly all his property is settled on that supposition . 
He knows that young Alan always was what he calls a feckless ne'er do weel but he loves him all the more for that . 
'It is a piteous thing , I said for Lorna's eyes were full of tears . 
'And he means me to marry him . 
It is the pet scheme of his life . 
I am to grow more beautiful , and more highly taught , and graceful until it pleases Alan to come back , and demand me . 
Can you understand this matter , John ? Or do you think my uncle mad ? 'Lorna , I should be mad myself , to call any other man mad , for hoping . 
'Then will you tell me what to do ? It makes me very sorrowful . 
For I know that Alan Brandir lies below the sod in Doone valley . 
'And if you tell his father , I answered softly , but clearly , 'in a few weeks he will lie below the sod in London at least if there is any . 
'Perhaps you are right , John , she replied 'to lose hope must be a dreadful thing , when one is turned of seventy . 
Therefore I will never tell him . 
, and even now are sometimes bitter , in spite of all my humility . 
my diffidence in telling it . 
The good Earl Brandir was a man of the noblest charity . 
True charity begins at home , and so did his and was afraid of losing the way , if it went abroad . 
So this good nobleman kept his money in a handsome pewter box , with his coat of arms upon it , and a double lid and locks . 
Moreover , there was a heavy chain , fixed to a staple in the wall , so that none might carry off the pewter with the gold inside of it . 
Lorna told me the box was full , for she had seen him go to it , and she often thought that it would be nice for us to begin the world with . 
I told her that she must not allow her mind to dwell upon things of this sort being wholly against the last commandment set up in our church at Oare . 
watching from the thicket corner , some hundred yards or so behind the good Earl's dwelling . 
the Earl of Brandir's pewter box . 
Here I remained until it was very nearly as dark as pitch and the house being full of footpads and cutthroats , I thought it right to leave them . 
Hence , although I might not see , I could scarcely fail to hear , if any unlawful entrance either at back or front were made . 
From my own observation , I thought it likely that the attack would he in the rear and so indeed it came to pass . 
This window was carefully raised by some one inside the house and after a little whispering , and something which sounded like a kiss , all the three men entered . 
'Oh , you villains ! I said to myself , 'this is worse than any Doone job because there is treachery in it . 
To me this was matter of deep regret , as I followed these vile men inward . 
Nevertheless I was resolved that my Lorna should not be robbed again . 
, following carefully the light , brought by the traitorous maid , and shaking in her loose dishonest hand . 
I saw her lead the men into a little place called a pantry and there she gave them cordials , and I could hear them boasting . 
, and so she had brought me out again , before I had time to admire things . 
They tried the lock , and pushed at it , and even set their knees upright but a Scottish nobleman may be trusted to secure his door at night . 
So they were forced to break it open and at this the guilty maid , or woman , ran away . 
These three rogues for rogues they were , and no charity may deny it burst into Earl Brandir's room , with a light , and a crowbar , and fire arms . 
I thought to myself that this was hard upon an honest nobleman and if further mischief could be saved , I would try to save it . 
'I tell you , said this aged Earl , beginning to understand at last what these rogues were up for 'I will give no key to you . 
It all belongs to my boy , Alan . 
No one else shall have a farthing . 
'Then you may count your moments , lord . 
The key is in your old cramped hand . 
One , two , and at three , I shoot you . 
I saw that the old man was abroad not with fear , but with great wonder , and the regrets of deafness . 
Hereupon my heart was moved and I resolved to interfere . 
Meanwhile the other two robbers had taken the alarm , and rushed at me , one with a pistol and one with a hanger which forced me to be very lively . 
, I myself went in search of the constables , whom , after some few hours , I found neither were they so drunk but what they could take roped men to prison . 
I answered them very modestly , and each according to his worth , as stated by himself , who of course could judge the best . 
The magistrate made me many compliments , ten times more than I deserved , and took good care to have them copied , that His Majesty might see them . 
In the course of that same afternoon I was sent for by His Majesty . 
He had summoned first the good Earl Brandir , and received the tale from him , not without exaggeration , although my lord was a Scotchman . 
But the chief thing His Majesty cared to know was that , beyond all possible doubt , these were the very precious fellows from perjury turned to robbery . 
to be brought at once , that he might have them in the best possible order . 
And he oiled them himself , and expressed his fear that there was no man in London quite competent to work them . 
Nevertheless he would try one or two , rather than wait for his pleasure , till the torturer came from Edinburgh . 
Then forth I set , with my holly staff , wishing myself well out of it . 
I was shown at once , and before I desired it , into His Majesty's presence , and there I stood most humbly , and made the best bow I could think of . 
And as I remained with my head bent down , he told me to stand up , and look at him . 
'I have seen thee before , young man , he said 'thy form is not one to be forgotten . 
Where was it ? Thou art most likely to know . 
'May it please Your Most Gracious Majesty the King , I answered , finding my voice in a manner which surprised myself 'it was in the Royal Chapel . 
Now I meant no harm whatever by this . 
I ought to have said the 'Ante chapel , but I could not remember the word , and feared to keep the King looking at me . 
Thou needest not say otherwise . 
The time shall be , and that right soon , when men shall be proud of the one true faith . 
Here he stopped , having gone rather far ! but the gleam of his heavy eyes was such that I durst not contradict . 
Ah , she is not of this black countree , she is of the breet Italie . 
I have tried to write it , as she said it but it wants a better scholar to express her mode of speech . 
It was good to save Earl Brandir , a loyal and Catholic nobleman but it was great service to catch two of the vilest bloodhounds ever laid on by heretics . 
And to make them shoot one another it was rare it was rare , my lad . 
Now ask us anything in reason thou canst carry any honours , on thy club , like Hercules . 
And that is what she longs for . 
A Ridd was with him in the isle of Athelney , and we hold our farm by gift from him or at least people say so . 
We have had three very good harvests running , and might support a coat of arms but for myself I want it not . 
'Thou shalt have a coat , my lad , said the King , smiling at his own humour 'but it must be a large one to fit thee . 
And more than that shalt thou have , John Ridd , being of such loyal breed , and having done such service . 
And I said to the King , without forms of speech , 'Sir , I am very much obliged . 
They did me the honour to consult me first , and to take no notice of my advice . 
But the gentlemen would not hear of this and to find something more appropriate , they inquired strictly into the annals of our family . 
, it was next to certain that he himself must have captured the standard . 
Moreover , the name of our farm was pure proof a plover being a wild bird , just the same as a raven is . 
Upon this chain of reasoning , and without any weak misgivings , they charged my growing escutcheon with a black raven on a ground of red . 
, my third quarter was made at once , by a two headed boar with noble tusks , sable upon silver . 
Here I was inclined to pause , and admire the effect for even De Whichehalse could not show a bearing so magnificent . 
But the heralds said that it looked a mere sign board , without a good motto under it and the motto must have my name in it . 
They offered me first , 'Ridd non ridendus' but I said , 'for God's sake , gentlemen , let me forget my Latin . 
Thirdly , they gave me , 'Ridd never be ridden , and fearing to make any further objections , I let them inscribe it in bronze upon blue . 
that it quite threw into the shade , and eclipsed , all her own ancient glories . 
Earl Brandir was greatly pleased with me , not only for having saved his life , but for saving that which he valued more , the wealth laid by for Lord Alan . 
And he introduced me to many great people , who quite kindly encouraged me , and promised to help me in every way when they heard how the King had spoken . 
He said , 'Well , well all trades had tricks , especially the trick of business and I must take him if I were his true friend according to his own description . 
This I was glad enough to do because it saved so much trouble , and I had no money to spend with him . 
But still he requested the use of my name and I begged him to do the best with it , as I never had kept a banker . 
, must have made this good man's fortune since the excess of price over value is the true test of success in life . 
, that nothing but the new wisps of Samson could have held me in London town . 
Lorna was moved with equal longing towards the country and country ways and she spoke quite as much of the glistening dew as she did of the smell of our oven . 
, I could not be quit of thinking how we jostle one another . 
God has made the earth quite large , with a spread of land large enough for all to live on , without fighting . 
Also a mighty spread of water , laying hands on sand and cliff with a solemn voice in storm time and in the gentle weather moving men to thoughts of equity . 
However , for a moralist , I never set up , and never shall , while common sense abides with me . 
Enough that I resolved to go and as Lorna could not come with me , it was even worse than stopping . 
Nearly everybody vowed that I was a great fool indeed , to neglect so rudely which was the proper word , they said the pushing of my fortunes . 
, and she sent a whole trunkful of things for mother and Annie , and even Lizzie . 
And she seemed to think , though she said it not , that I made my own occasion for going , and might have stayed on till the winter . 
But I knew that my coat of arms , and title , would turn every bit of this grumbling into fine admiration . 
And if my health was no better next day , it was not from want of good wishes , any more than from stint of the liquor . 
They shook hands with me and said that they could not deny but that there was reason in my view of the matter . 
And although they themselves must be the losers which was a handsome thing to say they would wait until I was a little older and more aware of my own value . 
Now this reminds me how it is that an English gentleman is so far in front of foreign noblemen and princes . 
outweighing all light complaisance to wit , the inborn love of justice , and the power of abiding . 
For now as the winter passed , the Doones were not keeping themselves at home , as in honour they were bound to do . 
, thought that it was very hard for them to go in that way , and perhaps themselves unwilling . 
declared that it was a robbery and though it increased for a while the custom , that must soon fall off again . 
This I will tell in most careful language , so as to give offence to none , if skill of words may help it . 
The following story is strictly true and true it is that the country people rose , to a man , at this dastard cruelty , and did what the Government failed to do . 
Therefore his wife was not surprised although the dusk was falling , that farmer Christopher should be at work in 'blind man's holiday , as we call it . 
Two of the strongest and fiercest men at once seized poor young Margery and though she fought for her child and home , she was but an infant herself in their hands . 
, and telling the others to sack the house , rode off with their prize to the valley . 
And from the description of one of those two , who carried off the poor woman , I knew beyond all doubt that it was Carver Doone himself . 
By evil luck , this child began to squeal about his mother , having been petted hitherto , and wont to get all he wanted , by raising his voice but a little . 
And she put a dish cloth under his head , and kissed him , and ran away again . 
Her name was Honour Jose , and she meant what was right by her master and mistress but could not help being frightened . 
And many women have blamed her , as I think unduly , for her mode of forsaking baby so . 
, she crept away in a breathless hurry , and afraid how her breath might come back to her . 
For oftentime she had hiccoughs . 
came downstairs , and stamped around the baby . 
Fetch down the staves of the rack , my boy . 
What was farmer to have for supper ? 'Naught but an onion or two , and a loaf and a rasher of rusty bacon . 
These poor devils live so badly , they are not worth robbing . 
'No game ! Then let us have a game of loriot with the baby ! It will be the best thing that could befall a lusty infant heretic . 
Ride a cock horse to Banbury Cross . 
Bye , bye , baby Bunting toss him up , and let me see if my wrist be steady . 
CHAPTER LXX COMPELLED TO VOLUNTEER There had been some trouble in our own home during the previous autumn , while yet I was in London . 
, having failed to obtain free shipment from the coast near Watersmouth , had returned into the wilds of Exmoor , trusting to lurk , and be comforted among the common people . 
Neither were they disappointed , for a certain length of time nor in the end was their disappointment caused by fault on our part . 
Major Wade was one of them an active and well meaning man but prone to fail in courage , upon lasting trial although in a moment ready . 
in Farley farmhouse , near Brendon . 
He had been up at our house several times and Lizzie thought a great deal of him . 
And well I know that if at that time I had been in the neighbourhood , he should not have been taken so easily . 
Not our parson Bowden , nor any more a friend of his . 
Our Parson Bowden never had naught whatever to do with it and never smoked a pipe with Parson Powell after it . 
my mother escaped all penalties . 
And now at last our gorge was risen , and our hearts in tumult . 
We had borne our troubles long , as a wise and wholesome chastisement quite content to have some few things of our own unmeddled with . 
They all agreed that I was bound to take command and management . 
I bade them go to the magistrates , but they said they had been too often . 
Then I told them that I had no wits for ordering of an armament , although I could find fault enough with the one which had not succeeded . 
But they would hearken to none of this . 
All they said was 'Try to lead us and we will try not to run away . 
But now I felt this difficulty the Doones had behaved very well to our farm , and to mother , and all of us , while I was away in London . 
I appeared with our Lizzie's white handkerchief upon a kidney bean stick , at the entrance to the robbers' dwelling . 
For my mother said that the Word of God would stop a two inch bullet , with three ounces of powder behind it . 
Now I took no weapons , save those of the Spirit , for fear of being misunderstood . 
But I could not bring myself to think that any of honourable birth would take advantage of an unarmed man coming in guise of peace to them . 
To this , of course , I agreed at once for I wanted no more spying , because I had thorough knowledge of all ins and outs already . 
Those men came back in a little while , with a sharp short message that Captain Carver would come out and speak to me by and by , when his pipe was finished . 
At length , a heavy and haughty step sounded along the stone roof of the way and then the great Carver Doone drew up , and looked at me rather scornfully . 
'What is it you want , young man ? he asked , as if he had never seen me before . 
As I put this in the fewest words that would meet my purpose , I was grieved to see a disdainful smile spread on his sallow countenance . 
Then he made me a bow of mock courtesy , and replied as follows , 'Sir John , your new honours have turned your poor head , as might have been expected . 
We are not in the habit of deserting anything that belongs to us far less our sacred relatives . 
The insolence of your demand well nigh outdoes the ingratitude . 
moreover , the light which he threw upon things differed so greatly from my own , that , in a word not to be too long I feared that I was a villain . 
And with many bitter pangs for I have bad things to repent of I began at my leisure to ask myself whether or not this bill of indictment against John Ridd was true . 
altogether out of reason for instance , about my going away with Lorna very quietly , over the snow , and to save my love from being starved away from me . 
I do not think that my evil deeds can be set against your own although I cannot speak flowingly upon my good deeds as you can . 
I took your Queen because you starved her , having stolen her long before , and killed her mother and brother . 
This is not for me to dwell upon now any more than I would say much about your murdering of my father . 
But how the balance hangs between us , God knows better than thou or I , thou low miscreant , Carver Doone . 
But Carver Doone regarded me with a noble and fearless grandeur . 
And of all I have ever met with thou art the very worst , Sir John , and the most dishonest . 
, to be charged like this , I say , so amazed me that I stood , with my legs quite open , and ready for an earthquake . 
And the scornful way in which he said 'Sir John , went to my very heart , reminding me of my littleness . 
And thus by good fortune , I escaped but with a bitter heart , and mind at their treacherous usage . 
Without any further hesitation I agreed to take command of the honest men who were burning to punish , ay and destroy , those outlaws , as now beyond all bearing . 
I myself was to and fro among the children continually for if I love anything in the world , foremost I love children . 
For either end of life is home both source and issue being God . 
Nevertheless , I must confess that the children were a plague sometimes . 
They never could have enough of me being a hundred to one , you might say but I had more than enough of them and yet was not contented . 
Tom Faggus also joined us heartily , being now quite healed of his wound , except at times when the wind was easterly . 
Also Uncle Ben came over to help us with his advice and presence , as well as with a band of stout warehousemen , whom he brought from Dulverton . 
Therefore they had now no longer any cause for secrecy , neither for dread of the outlaws having so added to their force as to be a match for them . 
was contributed , little by little , among the entire three of us , all having pipes , and schnapps and water , in the chimney corner . 
Not to attempt to rob him of it for robbers , more than any other , contend for rights of property let me try to describe this grand artifice . 
Though perhaps the militia would have sufficed , if they had only fought against the foe , instead of against each other . 
We caused it to be spread abroad that a large heap of gold was now collected at the mine of the Wizard's Slough . 
He was to have one quarter part , and they to take the residue . 
And right well he did it too , having once made up his mind to it and perceiving that his own interests called for the total destruction of the robbers . 
And we fixed upon Friday night for our venture , because the moon would be at the full and our powder was coming from Dulverton on the Friday afternoon . 
Uncle Reuben did not mean to expose himself to shooting , his time of life for risk of life being now well over and the residue too valuable . 
But his counsels , and his influence , and above all his warehousemen , well practised in beating carpets , were of true service to us . 
of as many Doones as might be despatched to plunder the pretended gold . 
, but in reality upon their rear , by means of my old water slide . 
Upon the whole , I rejoiced that Lorna was not present now . 
put to death without ceremony , or else putting all of us to death . 
There was hardly a man among us who had not suffered bitterly from the miscreants now before us . 
And that was the place where I had been used to sit , and to watch for Lorna . 
We waited a very long time , with the moon marching up heaven steadfastly , and the white fog trembling in chords and columns , like a silver harp of the meadows . 
, must veritably have gone to sleep leaving other people to kill , or be killed , as might be the will of God so that he were comfortable . 
'Now hold on by the rope , and lay your quarter staffs across , my lads and keep your guns pointing to heaven , lest haply we shoot one another . 
'You come next to me , old Ike you be enough to dry up the waters now , remember , all lean well forward . 
If any man throws his weight back , down he goes and perhaps he may never get up again and most likely he will shoot himself . 
If any man slipped , off might go his gun , and however good his meaning , I being first was most likely to take far more than I fain would apprehend . 
For this cause , I had debated with Uncle Ben and with Cousin Tom as to the expediency of our climbing with guns unloaded . 
Therefore we , of the chosen band , stole up the meadow quietly , keeping in the blots of shade , and hollow of the watercourse . 
And the earliest notice the Counsellor had , or any one else , of our presence , was the blazing of the log wood house , where lived that villain Carver . 
It was my especial privilege to set this house on fire upon which I had insisted , exclusively and conclusively . 
No other hand but mine should lay a brand , or strike steel on flint for it I had made all preparations carefully for a goodly blaze . 
We took good care , however , to burn no innocent women or children in that most righteous destruction . 
For we brought them all out beforehand some were glad , and some were sorry according to their dispositions . 
For Carver had ten or a dozen wives and perhaps that had something to do with his taking the loss of Lorna so easily . 
The boy climbed on my back and rode and much as I hated his father , it was not in my heart to say or do a thing to vex him . 
Leaving these poor injured people to behold their burning home , we drew aside , by my directions , into the covert beneath the cliff . 
In the smoke and rush , and fire , they believed that we were a hundred and away they ran , in consternation , to the battle at the Doone gate . 
All the valley flowed with light , and the limpid waters reddened , and the fair young women shone , and the naked children glistened . 
But the finest sight of all was to see those haughty men striding down the causeway darkly , reckless of their end , but resolute to have two lives for every one . 
A finer dozen of young men could not have been found in the world perhaps , nor a braver , nor a viler one . 
They fired wildly , not seeing us well among the hazel bushes and then they clubbed their muskets , or drew their swords , as might be and furiously drove at us . 
For a moment , although we were twice their number , we fell back before their valorous fame , and the power of their onset . 
The whirl and hurry of this fight , and the hard blows raining down for now all guns were empty took away my power of seeing , or reasoning upon anything . 
Yet one thing I saw , which dwelled long with me and that was Christopher Badcock spending his life to get Charley's . 
It was Carver Doone who took her away , but Charleworth Doone was beside him and , according to cast of dice , she fell to Charley's share . 
had discovered , and treasured up and now was his revenge time . 
He had come into the conflict without a weapon of any kind only begging me to let him be in the very thick of it . 
Such a face I never saw , and never hope to see again , as when poor Kit Badcock spied Charley coming towards us . 
We had thought this man a patient fool , a philosopher of a little sort , or one who could feel nothing . 
, these had misled us to think that the man would turn the mild cheek to everything . 
But I , in the loneliness of our barn , had listened , and had wept with him . 
What they said aside , I know not all I know is that without weapon , each man killed the other . 
And Margery Badcock came , and wept , and hung upon her poor husband and died , that summer , of heart disease . 
was the reckoning come that night and not a line we missed of it soon as our bad blood was up . 
I like not to tell of slaughter , though it might be of wolves and tigers and that was a night of fire and slaughter , and of very long harboured revenge . 
Enough that ere the daylight broke upon that wan March morning , the only Doones still left alive were the Counsellor and Carver . 
not even one was left , but all made potash in the river . 
This may seem a violent and unholy revenge upon them . 
we returned on the following day , almost as full of anxiety as we were of triumph . 
into the Exchequer at Westminster and then let all the claimants file what wills they pleased in Chancery . 
And the King's Commissioner was compelled to profess himself contented , although of all he was most aggrieved for his pickings would have been goodly . 
Moreover , by this plan I made although I never thought of that a mighty friend worth all the enemies , whom the loss of money moved . 
For the King's Exchequer is , meseemeth , of the Common Law while Chancery is of Equity , and well named for its many chances . 
And this met our second difficulty for the law having won and laughed over the spoil , must have injured its own title by impugning our legality . 
Next , with regard to the women and children , we were long in a state of perplexity . 
We did our very best at the farm , and so did many others to provide for them , until they should manage about their own subsistence . 
And after a while this trouble went , as nearly all troubles go with time . 
And most of the children went with their mothers , or were bound apprentices only Carver Doone's handsome child had lost his mother and stayed with me . 
This boy went about with me everywhere . 
He told us that his name was 'Ensie , meant for 'Ensor , I suppose , from his father's grandfather , the old Sir Ensor Doone . 
And this boy appeared to be Carver's heir , having been born in wedlock , contrary to the general manner and custom of the Doones . 
However , although I loved the poor child , I could not help feeling very uneasy about the escape of his father , the savage and brutal Carver . 
For his escape the miners , as I shall show , were answerable but of the Counsellor's safe departure the burden lay on myself alone . 
And inasmuch as there are people who consider themselves ill used , unless one tells them everything , straitened though I am for space , I will glance at this transaction . 
'John , he said , 'Sir John , you will not play falsely with your ancient friend , among these violent fellows , I look to you to protect me , John . 
'Honoured sir , you are right , I replied 'but surely that posture was unworthy of yourself , and your many resources . 
It is my intention to let you go free . 
I could have sworn to it . 
You are a noble fellow , John . 
I said so , from the very first you are a noble fellow , and an ornament to any rank . 
who it was that slew my father . 
'I will tell you truly and frankly , John however painful to me to confess it . 
It was my son , Carver . 
'I thought as much , or I felt as much all along , I answered 'but the fault was none of yours , sir for you were not even present . 
'If I had been there , it would not have happened . 
I am always opposed to violence . 
Therefore , let me haste away this scene is against my nature . 
'You shall go directly , Sir Counsellor , after meeting my other condition which is , that you place in my hands Lady Lorna's diamond necklace . 
'Then try to have it in your power , sir . 
Surely , with my encouragement , you might summon resolution . 
'Alas , John , the resolution has been ready long ago . 
But the thing is not in my possession . 
Carver , my son , who slew your father , upon him you will find the necklace . 
What are jewels to me , young man , at my time of life ? Baubles and trash , I detest them , from the sins they have led me to answer for . 
When you come to my age , good Sir John , you will scorn all jewels , and care only for a pure and bright conscience . 
Ah ! ah ! Let me go . 
I have made my peace with God . 
He looked so hoary , and so silvery , and serene in the moonlight , that verily I must have believed him , if he had not drawn in his breast . 
The old man made a stab at me , with a knife which I had not espied but the vicious onset failed and then he knelt , and clasped his hands . 
'Oh , for God's sake , John , my son , rob me not in that manner . 
They belong to me and I love them so I would give almost my life for them . 
There is one jewel I can look at for hours , and see all the lights of heaven in it which I never shall see elsewhere . 
All my wretched , wicked life oh , John , I am a sad hypocrite but give me back my jewels . 
Or else kill me here I am a babe in your hands but I must have back my jewels . 
But if you will show me that particular diamond which is heaven to you , I will take upon myself the risk and the folly of cutting it out for you . 
And with that you must go contented and I beseech you not to starve with that jewel upon your lips . 
and placed it in his careful hand . 
Another moment , and he was gone , and away through Gwenny's postern and God knows what became of him . 
For he was a man of some substance and no poor man ever left The Warren without a bag of good victuals , and a few shillings put in his pocket . 
And as every one knows that our Government sends all things westward when eastward bound , this had won the more faith for Simon , as being according to nature . 
'Captain , I have found a thing , he said to Carver Doone , himself , 'which may help to pass the hour , ere the lump of gold comes by . 
The smugglers are a noble race but a miner's eyes are a match for them . 
There lies a puncheon of rare spirit , with the Dutchman's brand upon it , hidden behind the broken hearth . 
Set a man to watch outside and let us see what this be like . 
With one accord they agreed to this , and Carver pledged Master Carfax , and all the Doones grew merry . 
How it fared upon that I know not , having none to tell me for each man wrought , neither thought of telling , nor whether he might be alive to tell . 
Upon fighting I can never dwell it breeds such savage delight in me of which I would fain have less . 
died in the hall of the man they had murdered . 
And with them died poor young De Whichehalse , who , in spite of his good father's prayers , had cast in his lot with the robbers . 
Partly through his fearful strength , and his yet more fearful face but mainly perhaps through his perfect coolness , and his mode of taking things . 
Yet , for Lorna' s sake , I was vexed at the bold escape of Carver . 
But lo , he had dashed through the whole of them , with his horse at full gallop and was nearly out of shot before they began to think of shooting him . 
Then it appears from what a boy said for boys manage to be everywhere that Captain Carver rode through the Doone gate , and so to the head of the valley . 
, spurred his great black horse away , and passed into the darkness . 
unready , except with false excuses . 
And as this makes no good work , so I lament upon my lingering , in the times when I might have got through a good page , but went astray after trifles . 
Even as in the wrestling ring , whatever man did his best , and made an honest conflict , I always laid him down with softness , easing off his dusty fall . 
But the thing which next betided me was not a fall of any sort but rather a most glorious rise to the summit of all fortune . 
, when this Queen of every heart ran about our rooms again . 
My mother sat in an ancient chair , and wiped her cheeks , and looked at her and even Lizzie's eyes must dance to the freshness and joy of her beauty . 
'A frank announcement of your intent , and beyond doubt a true one but surely unusual at this stage , and a little premature , John . 
However , what must be , must be . 
And with tears springing out of smiles , she fell on my breast , and cried a bit . 
, I could hardly believe in my good luck . 
, so placed that the noblest man in England might envy me , and be vexed with me . 
For the noblest lady in all the land , and the purest , and the sweetest hung upon my heart , as if there was none to equal it . 
Seeing no way out of this , I resolved to place my faith in God and so went to bed and dreamed of it . 
And having no presence of mind to pray for anything , under the circumstances , I thought it best to fall asleep , and trust myself to the future . 
Yet ere I fell asleep the roof above me swarmed with angels , having Lorna under it . 
, and mother not understanding it , looked forth , to be taught about it . 
For it was strange to note that lately my dear mother had lost her quickness , and was never quite brisk , unless the question were about myself . 
She had seen a great deal of trouble and grief begins to close on people , as their power of life declines . 
as happy as could be , in the doings of the younger folk , and her own skill in detecting them . 
Yet , with the wisdom of age , renouncing any opinion upon the matter since none could see the end of it . 
But Lorna in her bright young beauty , and her knowledge of my heart , was not to be checked by any thoughts of haply coming evil . 
In the morning she was up , even sooner than I was , and through all the corners of the hens , remembering every one of them . 
, that she vowed she would never come out again and yet she came the next morning . 
These things ought not to be chronicled . 
Yet I am of such nature , that finding many parts of life adverse to our wishes , I must now and then draw pleasure from the blessed portions . 
On the other hand , Lorna considered him a worthy but foolish old gentleman to whom true happiness meant no more than money and high position . 
These two last she had been ready to abandon wholly , and had in part escaped from them , as the enemies of her happiness . 
And she took advantage of the times , in a truly clever manner . 
, have , somehow , or other , happened to be when everybody was only too glad to take money for doing anything . 
was generally acknowledged to be the Lord Chief Justice Jeffreys . 
Accordingly in his hand was placed the Great Seal of England . 
So it came to pass that Lorna's destiny hung upon Lord Jeffreys for at this time Earl Brandir died , being taken with gout in the heart , soon after I left London . 
She grieved for him as we ought to grieve for any good man going and yet with a comforting sense of the benefit which the blessed exchange must bring to him . 
Now the Lady Lorna Dugal appeared to Lord Chancellor Jeffreys so exceeding wealthy a ward that the lock would pay for turning . 
that this wealthy and beautiful maiden would not listen to any young lord , having pledged her faith to the plain John Ridd . 
However , there was no getting back the money once paid to Lord Chancellor Jeffreys . 
And I replied with the greatest warmth and a readiness to worship her , that this was exactly what I longed for , but had never dared to propose it . 
for her want of confidence in us . 
, their butter would always command in the market from one to three farthings a pound more than we could get for ours . 
And few things vexed us more than this . 
, sell all our butter as Snowe butter , and do good to all our customers . 
But this was far too bright to last , without bitter break , and the plunging of happiness in horror , and of passionate joy in agony . 
She would cling to me , and nestle to me , being scared of coyishness , and lay one arm around my neck , and ask if I could do without her . 
I kept a steadfast watch on Lorna , neglecting a field of beans entirely , as well as a litter of young pigs , and a cow somewhat given to jaundice . 
For this thing , nearly all the men around our parts upbraided me but the women praised me and for the most part these are right , when themselves are not concerned . 
, had led to the broadest excitement about my wedding of Lorna . 
must every one pay two shillings . 
I thought this wrong and as church warden , begged that the money might be paid into mine own hands , when taken . 
But the clerk said that was against all law and he had orders from the parson to pay it to him without any delay . 
, made such a sweeping of dresses that I scarcely knew where to place my feet , and longed for a staff , to put by their gowns . 
My darling looked so glorious , that I was afraid of glancing at her , yet took in all her beauty . 
, 'I will go through it like a grave digger . 
, and as simple as need be , except for perfect loveliness . 
I was afraid to look at her , as I said before , except when each of us said , 'I will , and then each dwelled upon the other . 
Darling eyes , the sweetest eyes , the loveliest , the most loving eyes the sound of a shot rang through the church , and those eyes were filled with death . 
I lifted her up , and petted her , and coaxed her , but it was no good the only sign of life remaining was a spirt of bright red blood . 
She sighed a long sigh on my breast , for her last farewell to life , and then she grew so cold , and cold , that I asked the time of year . 
Enough that so I did , and looked and our white lilacs were beautiful . 
Then I laid my wife in my mother's arms , and begging that no one would make a noise , went forth for my revenge . 
Of course , I knew who had done it . 
There was but one man in the world , or at any rate , in our part of it , who could have done such a thing such a thing . 
Who showed me the course , I cannot tell . 
I only know that I took it . 
And the men fell back before me . 
, I went forth just to find out this whether in this world there be or be not God of justice . 
With my vicious horse at a furious speed , I came upon Black Barrow Down , directed by some shout of men , which seemed to me but a whisper . 
And there , about a furlong before me , rode a man on a great black horse , and I knew that the man was Carver Doone . 
'Your life or mine , I said to myself 'as the will of God may be . 
But we two live not upon this earth , one more hour together . 
Nevertheless , I had no more doubt of killing the man before me than a cook has of spitting a headless fowl . 
Sometimes seeing no ground beneath me , and sometimes heeding every leaf , and the crossing of the grass blades , I followed over the long moor , reckless whether seen or not . 
But only once the other man turned round and looked back again , and then I was beside a rock , with a reedy swamp behind me . 
, the brutal deed , the piteous anguish , and the cold despair . 
The man turned up the gully leading from the moor to Cloven Rocks , through which John Fry had tracked Uncle Ben , as of old related . 
But as Carver entered it , he turned round , and beheld me not a hundred yards behind and I saw that he was bearing his child , little Ensie , before him . 
Ensie also descried me , and stretched his hands and cried to me for the face of his father frightened him . 
And a cry of triumph rose from the black depths of my heart . 
I followed my enemy carefully , steadily , even leisurely for I had him , as in a pitfall , whence no escape might be . 
He thought that I feared to approach him , for he knew not where he was and his low disdainful laugh came back . 
Rising from my horse's back , although I had no stirrups , I caught a limb , and tore it from the socket . 
Men show the rent even now , with wonder none with more wonder than myself . 
Carver Doone turned the corner suddenly on the black and bottomless bog with a start of fear he reined back his horse , and I thought he would have turned upon me . 
But instead of that , he again rode on hoping to find a way round the side . 
Upon this he made up his mind and wheeling , fired , and then rode at me . 
His bullet struck me somewhere , but I took no heed of that . 
Fearing only his escape , I laid my horse across the way , and with the limb of the oak struck full on the forehead his charging steed . 
Ere the slash of the sword came nigh me , man and horse rolled over , and wellnigh bore my own horse down , with the power of their onset . 
Carver Doone was somewhat stunned , and could not arise for a moment . 
Meanwhile I leaped on the ground and awaited , smoothing my hair back , and baring my arms , as though in the ring for wrestling . 
Then the little boy ran to me , clasped my leg , and looked up at me , and the terror in his eyes made me almost fear myself . 
The child obeyed me , hanging back , and looking back , and then laughing , while I prepared for business . 
There and then I might have killed mine enemy , with a single blow , while he lay unconscious but it would have been foul play . 
With a sullen and black scowl , the Carver gathered his mighty limbs , and arose , and looked round for his weapons but I had put them well away . 
Then he came to me and gazed being wont to frighten thus young men . 
'I would not harm you , lad , he said , with a lofty style of sneering 'I have punished you enough , for most of your impertinence . 
For the rest I forgive you because you have been good and gracious to my little son . 
Go , and be contented . 
For answer , I smote him on the cheek , lightly , and not to hurt him but to make his blood leap up . 
I would not sully my tongue by speaking to a man like this . 
There was a level space of sward between us and the slough . 
With the courtesy derived from London , and the processions I had seen , to this place I led him . 
I think that he felt that his time was come . 
At any rate a paleness came , an ashy paleness on his cheeks , and the vast calves of his legs bowed in , as if he were out of training . 
Seeing this , villain as he was , I offered him first chance . 
I stretched forth my left hand , as I do to a weaker antagonist , and I let him have the hug of me . 
But in this I was too generous having forgotten my pistol wound , and the cracking of one of my short lower ribs . 
Carver Doone caught me round the waist , with such a grip as never yet had been laid upon me . 
then I took him by the throat , which is not allowed in wrestling but he had snatched at mine and now was no time of dalliance . 
In vain he tugged , and strained , and writhed , dashed his bleeding fist into my face , and flung himself on me with gnashing jaws . 
Beneath the iron of my strength for God that day was with me I had him helpless in two minutes , and his fiery eyes lolled out . 
A far more terrible clutch than this is handed down , to weaker ages , of the great John Ridd . 
It was all too late . 
The black bog had him by the feet the sucking of the ground drew on him , like the thirsty lips of death . 
In our fury , we had heeded neither wet nor dry nor thought of earth beneath us . 
I myself might scarcely leap , with the last spring of o'er laboured legs , from the engulfing grave of slime . 
I could only gaze and pant for my strength was no more than an infant's , from the fury and the horror . 
Scarcely could I turn away , while , joint by joint , he sank from sight . 
But to the center of its pulpy gorge the greedy slough was heaving , and sullenly grinding its weltering jaws among the flags and the sedges . 
Take me home , Don . 
It has been said of the wicked , 'not even their own children love them . 
And I could easily believe that Carver Doone's cold hearted ways had scared from him even his favorite child . 
No man would I call truly wicked , unless his heart be cold . 
It hurt me , more than I can tell , even through all other grief , to take into my arms the child of the man just slain by me . 
For now I had spent a great deal of blood , and was rather faint and weary . 
And it was lucky for me that Kickums had lost spirit , like his master , and went home as mildly as a lamb . 
, as they met me , seemed to wander from a distant muffling cloud . 
Only the thought of Lorna's death , like a heavy knell , was tolling in the belfry of my brain . 
'I have killed him , was all I said 'even as he killed Lorna . 
Now let me see my wife , mother . 
She belongs to me none the less , though dead . 
'You cannot see her now , dear John , said Ruth Huckaback , coming forward since no one else had the courage . 
'Annie is with her now , John . 
'What has that to do with it ? Let me see my dead one and pray myself to die . 
All the women fell away , and whispered , and looked at me , with side glances , and some sobbing for my face was hard as flint . 
Ruth alone stood by me , and dropped her eyes , and trembled . 
She may even be your living one yet , your wife , your home , and your happiness . 
But you must not see her now . 
'Is there any chance for her ? For me , I mean for me , I mean ? 'God in heaven knows , dear John . 
But the sight of you , and in this sad plight , would be certain death to her . 
Now come first , and be healed yourself . 
Tenfold , ay and a thousandfold , I prayed and I believed it , when I came to know the truth . 
If it had not been for this little maid , Lorna must have died at once , as in my arms she lay for dead , from the dastard and murderous cruelty . 
But the moment I left her Ruth came forward and took the command of every one , in right of her firmness and readiness . 
She made them bear her home at once upon the door of the pulpit , with the cushion under the drooping head . 
she probed the vile wound in the side , and fetched the reeking bullet forth and then with the coldest water stanched the flowing of the life blood . 
All this while my darling lay insensible , and white as death and needed nothing but her maiden shroud . 
, and poured in wine from a christening spoon , and raised the graceful neck and breast , and stroked the delicate throat , and waited and then poured in a little more . 
Annie all the while looked on with horror and amazement , counting herself no second rate nurse , and this as against all theory . 
But the quiet lifting of Ruth's hand , and one glance from her dark bright eyes , told Annie just to stand away , and not intercept the air so . 
Luckily Annie was not there very often , so as to meddle for kind and clever nurse as she was , she must have done more harm than good . 
This doctor had pronounced poor Lorna dead wherefore Ruth refused most firmly to have aught to do with him . 
She took the whole case on herself and with God's help she bore it through . 
But anyhow , one thing is certain sure as stars of hope above us Lorna recovered , long ere I did . 
For the grief was on me still of having lost my love and lover at the moment she was mine . 
With the power of fate upon me , and the black cauldron of the wizard's death boiling in my heated brain , I had no faith in the tales they told . 
I believed that Lorna was in the churchyard , while these rogues were lying to me . 
For with strength of blood like mine , and power of heart behind it , a broken bone must burn itself . 
And it fetched me down in conceit of strength so that I was careful afterwards . 
All this was a lesson to me . 
All this made me very humble illness being a thing , as yet , altogether unknown to me . 
Not that I cried small , or skulked , or feared the death which some foretold shaking their heads about mortification , and a green appearance . 
Only that I seemed quite fit to go to heaven , and Lorna . 
, like the bead in the spread of frog spawn carried by the current , hung the black and central essence of my future life . 
A life without Lorna a tadpole life . 
All stupid head and no body . 
Many men may like such life anchorites , fakirs , high priests , and so on but to my mind , it is not the native thing God meant for us . 
My dearest mother was a show , with crying and with fretting . 
The Doones , as she thought , were born to destroy us . 
Let us debate them as we will , are ways are His , and much the same only second hand from Him . 
And I expected something from Him , even in my worst of times , knowing that I had done my best . 
This is not edifying talk as our Nonconformist parson says , when he can get no more to drink therefore let me only tell what became of Lorna . 
I looked at my right hand , whose grasp had been like that of a blacksmith's vice and it seemed to myself impossible that this could be John Ridd's . 
But as for colour , even Lorna's could scarcely have been whiter and as for strength , little Ensie Doone might have come and held it fast . 
I laughed as I tried in vain to lift the basin set for bleeding me . 
Then I thought of all the lovely things going on out of doors just now , concerning which the drowsy song of the bees came to me . 
These must be among the thyme , by the sound of their great content . 
And what was worse , I had no hope of caring ever for them more . 
Presently a little knock sounded through my gloomy room , and supposing it to be the doctor , I tried to rise and make my bow . 
But to my surprise it was little Ruth , who had never once come to visit me , since I was placed under the doctor's hands . 
Ruth ran towards me with sparkling eyes , being rather short of sight then suddenly she stopped , and I saw entire amazement in her face . 
Whatever is that basin for ? 'I have no intention of dying , Ruth and I like not to talk about it . 
But that basin , if you must know , is for the doctor's purpose . 
'What , do you mean bleeding you ? You poor weak cousin ! Is it possible that he does that still ? 'Twice a week for the last six weeks , dear . 
Nothing else has kept me alive . 
'Nothing else has killed you , nearly . 
There ! and she set her little boot across the basin , and crushed it . 
'Not another drop shall they have from you . 
And I tried to soothe her with my feeble hand , as now she knelt before me . 
'Dear cousin , the doctor must know best . 
Annie says so , every day . 
What has he been brought up for ? 'Brought up for slaying and murdering . 
Twenty doctors killed King Charles , in spite of all the women . 
Will you leave it to me , John ? I have a little will of my own and I am not afraid of doctors . 
Will you leave it to me , dear John ? I have saved your Lorna's life . 
And now I will save yours which is a far , far easier business . 
'You have saved my Lorna's life ! What do you mean by talking so ? 'Only what I say , Cousin John . 
Though perhaps I overprize my work . 
But at any rate she says so . 
'I do not understand , I said , falling back with bewilderment 'all women are such liars . 
But so you cannot do , John Ridd and no more than you can I do it . 
'I do not understand , was all I could say for a very long time . 
'Will you understand , if I show you Lorna ? I have feared to do it , for the sake of you both . 
But now Lorna is well enough , if you think that you are , Cousin John . 
Surely you will understand , when you see your wife . 
Following her , to the very utmost of my mind and heart , I felt that all she said was truth and yet I could not make it out . 
Before I had time to listen much for the approach of footsteps , Ruth came back , and behind her Lorna coy as if of her bridegroom and hanging back with her beauty . 
Ruth banged the door , and ran away and Lorna stood before me . 
But she did not stand for an instant , when she saw what I was like . 
I felt my life come back , and warm I felt my trust in women flow I felt the joys of living now , and the power of doing it . 
It is not a moment to describe who feels can never tell of it . 
, made me feel that the world was good , and not a thing to be weary of . 
Little more have I to tell . 
The doctor was turned out at once and slowly came back my former strength , with a darling wife , and good victuals . 
As for Lorna , she never tired of sitting and watching me eat and eat . 
There is no need for my farming harder than becomes a man of weight . 
Lorna has great stores of money , though we never draw it out , except for some poor neighbor unless I find her a sumptuous dress , out of her own perquisites . 
And this she always looks upon as a wondrous gift from me and kisses me much when she puts it on , and walks like the noble woman she is . 
And yet I may never behold it again for she gets back to her simple clothes , and I love her the better in them . 
I believe that she gives half the grandeur away , and keeps the other half for the children . 
As for poor Tom Faggus , every one knows his bitter adventures , when his pardon was recalled , because of his journey to Sedgemoor . 
Not a child in the country , I doubt , but knows far more than I do of Tom's most desperate doings . 
, he set his strawberry mare , sweet Winnie , at the left hand parapet , with a whisper into her dove coloured ear . 
Without a moment's doubt she leaped it , into the foaming tide , and swam , and landed according to orders . 
is as well known as any ballad . 
It was reported for awhile that poor Tom had been caught at last , by means of his fondness for liquor , and was hanged before Taunton Jail but luckily we knew better . 
Upon this , Tom sued his pardon afresh and Jeremy Stickles , who suited the times , was glad to help him in getting it , as well as a compensation . 
life and brought up his children to honesty , as the first of all qualifications . 
My dear mother was as happy as possibly need be with us having no cause for jealousy , as others arose around her . 
And everybody was well pleased , when Lizzy came in one day and tossed her bookshelf over , and declared that she would have Captain Bloxham , and nobody should prevent her . 
For that he alone , of all the men she had ever met with , knew good writing when he saw it , and could spell a word when told . 
, and had the power of collecting , and of keeping , what he liked , there was nothing to be said against it and we hoped that he would pay her out . 
I sent little Ensie to Blundell's school , at my own cost and charges , having changed his name , for fear of what anyone might do to him . 
I called him Ensie Jones and we got him a commission , and after many scrapes of spirit , he did great things in the Low Countries . 
He looks upon me as his father and without my leave will not lay claim to the heritage and title of the Doones , which clearly belong to him . 
And he left almost a mint of money , not from the mine , but from the shop , and the good use of usury . 
Ruth herself was his true mine , as upon death bed he found . 
I know a man even worthy of her and though she is not very young , he loves her , as I love Lorna . 
Of Lorna , of my lifelong darling , of my more and more loved wife , I will not talk for it is not seemly that a man should exalt his pride . 
Year by year her beauty grows , with the growth of goodness , kindness , and true happiness above all with loving . 
