For myself on these occasions I like a bit of a run as an early refresher . 
Greatest luxury imaginable , a toothbrush , on this sort of expedition . 
Now , said Coppinger when we had emptied our pockets , there's precious little grub left , and it's none the better for being carried in a local Spanish newspaper . 
Yours is mostly tobacco ashes . 
It'll get worse if we leave it . 
We've a lot more bad scrambling ahead of us . 
So we sat down beside the stream there at the bottom of the barranca , and ate up all of what was left . 
Now to tell the truth , the two mummies he had gathered already quite satisfied my small ambition . 
The goatskins in which they were sewn up were as brittle as paper , and the poor old things themselves gave out dust like a puffball whenever they were touched . 
But you know what Coppinger is . 
Of course these caves were not easy to come at , or else they would have been raided years before . 
Coppinger is plucky enough , and he has a good head on a height , but there is no getting over the fact that he is portly and nearer fifty than forty five . 
So you can see he must have been pretty keen . 
You know what these thorough going archaeologists are for imagination . 
I must say I didn't like it . 
You see the drop was seldom less than eighty feet from the top of the cliffs . 
However , at last he was forced to give it up . 
I suggested marching off to Santa Brigida forthwith , but he wouldn't do that . 
There were three more cave openings to be looked into , and if I wouldn't do them for him , he would have to make another effort to get there himself . 
I was pretty tired also I was soaked with perspiration from the heat my head ached from the violence of the sun and my hands were cut raw with the rope . 
Coppinger might be tired , but he was still enthusiastic . 
He tried to make me enthusiastic also . 
Look here , he said , there's no knowing what you may find up there , and if you do lay hands on anything , remember it's your own . 
I shall have no claim whatever . 
Very kind of you , but I've got no use for any more mummies done up in goatskin bags . 
Bah ! That's not a burial cave up there . 
Don't you know the difference yet in the openings ? Now , be a good fellow . 
It doesn't follow that because we have drawn all the rest blank , you won't stumble across a good find for yourself up there . 
it had broken away below but I managed it somehow , although I landed with an awkward thump on my back , and at the same time I didn't let go the rope . 
It wouldn't do to have lost the rope then Coppinger couldn't have flicked it into me from where he was below . 
Now from the first glance I could see that this cave was of different structure to the others . 
The walls inclined inwards to the roof , reminding me of an architecture I had seen before but could not recollect where , and moreover there were several rooms connected up with passages . 
I was pleased to find that the other cave openings which Coppinger wanted me to explore were merely the windows or the doorways of two of these other rooms . 
Of inscriptions or markings on the walls there was not a trace , though I looked carefully , and except for bats the place was entirely bare . 
He turned up a very anxious face . 
Have you searched it thoroughly ? he bawled back . 
What do you think I've been doing all this time ? No , don't come down yet . 
I say , old man , do wait a minute . 
I'm making fast the kodak and the flashlight apparatus on the end of the rope . 
Pull them up , and just make me half a dozen exposures , there's a good fellow . 
Oh , all right , I said , and hauled the things up , and got them inside . 
The photographs would be absolutely dull and uninteresting , but that wouldn't matter to Coppinger . 
He rather preferred them that way . 
I got pictures of four of the chambers this way , and then came to one where the ledge was higher and wider . 
I put down the camera , wedged it level with scraps of stone , and then sat down myself to recharge the flashlight machine . 
But the moment my weight got on that ledge , there was a sharp crackle , and down I went half a dozen inches . 
Of course I was up again pretty sharply , and snapped up the kodak just as it was going to slide off to the ground . 
I will confess , too , I was feeling pleased . 
At first there was nothing to be seen but a lot of dust and rubble , so I lit a bit of candle and cleared this away . 
Presently , however , I began to find that I was shelling out something that was not cement . 
It chipped away , in regular layers , and when I took it to the daylight I found that each layer was made up of two parts . 
One side was shiny staff that looked like talc , and on this was smeared a coating of dark toffee coloured material , that might have been wax . 
The toffee coloured surface was worked over with some kind of pattern . 
Now I do not profess to any knowledge on these matters , and as a consequence took what Coppinger had told me about Guanche habits and acquirements as more or less true . 
The sheets were all more or less stuck together , and so I did not go in for separating them farther . 
There was nothing more to do in the caves then , so I went down myself next . 
The lump of sheets was on the ground , and Coppinger was on all fours beside it . 
He was pretty nearly mad with excitement . 
What is it ? I asked him . 
But it is the most valuable find ever made in the Canary Islands , and it's yours , you unappreciative beggar at least what there is left of it . 
Oh , man , man , you've smashed up the beginning , and you've smashed up the end of some history that is probably priceless . 
I ought to have known better than set an untrained man to do important exploring work . 
I should say it's your fault if anything's gone wrong . 
You said there was no such thing as writing known to these ancient Canarios , and I took your word for it . 
For anything I knew the stuff might have been something to eat . 
It isn't Guanche work at all , said he testily . 
You ought to have known that from the talc . 
Great heavens , man , have you no eyes ? Haven't you seen the general formation of the island ? Don't you know there's no talc here ? I'm no geologist . 
Is this imported literature then ? Of course . 
It's Egyptian that's obvious at a glance . 
Though how it's got here I can't tell yet . 
It isn't stuff you can read off like a newspaper . 
The character's a variant on any of those that have been discovered so far . 
And as for this waxy stuff spread over the talc , it's unique . 
It's some sort of a mineral , I think perhaps asphalt . 
It doesn't scratch up like animal wax . 
Why they once invented it , and then let such a splendid notion drop out of use , is just a marvel . 
I could stay gloating over this all day . 
Well , I said , if it's all the same for you , I'd rather gloat over a meal . 
It's a good ten miles hard going to the fonda , and I'm as hungry as a hawk already . 
He was tolerably ungracious about it too . 
I suppose you may as well carry the stuff , he snapped , seeing that after all it's your own . 
Coppinger dined also , but I have reason to believe he did not sleep much . 
At any rate I found him still poring over the find next morning , and looking very heavy eyed , but brimming with enthusiasm . 
For instance , those top sheets you shelled away and spoiled , contained probably an absolutely unique account of the ancient civilisation of Yucatan . 
Where's that , anyway ? In the middle of the Gulf of Mexico . 
It's all ruins to day , but once it was a very prosperous colony of the Atlanteans . 
Oh yes , I have though . 
They were the people Herodotus wrote about , didn't he ? But I thought they were mythical . 
They were very real , and so was Atlantis , the continent where they lived , which lay just north of the Canaries here . 
What's that crocodile sort of thing with wings drawn in the margin ? Some sort of beast that lived in those bygone days . 
The pages are full of them . 
And that's some sort of colossal bat . 
Whole species have died out since this was written , just as a whole continent has been swept away and three civilisations quenched . 
The worst of it is , it was written by a highly educated man who somewhat naturally writes a very bad fist . 
I've hammered at it all the night through , and have only managed to make out a few sentences here and there he rubbed his hands appreciatively . 
It will take me a year's hard work to translate this properly . 
Every man to his taste . 
I'm afraid my interest in the thing wouldn't last as long as that . 
The author was not an Egyptian . 
It was the similarity of the inscribed character which misled me . 
The book was written by one Deucalion , who seems to have been a priest or general or perhaps both and he was an Atlantean . 
How it got there , I don't know yet . 
Probably that was told in the last few pages , which a certain vandal smashed up with his pocketknife , in getting them away from the place where they were stowed . 
That's right , abuse me . 
Deucalion you say ? There was a Deucalion in the Greek mythology . 
He was one of the two who escaped from the Flood their Noah , in fact . 
The swamping of the continent of Atlantis might very well correspond to the Flood . 
Is there a Pyrrha then ? She was Deucalion's wife . 
I haven't come across her yet . 
But there's a Phorenice , who may be the same . 
She seems to have been the reigning Empress , as far as I can make out at present . 
I looked with interest at illustrations in the margin . 
They were quite understandable , although the perspective was all wrong . 
Weird beasts they seem to have had knocking about the country in those days . 
Whacking big size too , if one may judge . 
By Jove , that'll be a cave tiger trying to puff down a mammoth . 
I shouldn't care to have lived in those days . 
Probably they had some way of fighting the creatures . 
However , that will show itself as I get along with the translation . 
He looked at his watch I suppose I ought to be ashamed of myself , but I haven't been to bed . 
Are you going out ? I shall drive back to Las Palmas . 
I promised a man to have a round at golf this afternoon . 
Very well , see you at dinner . 
I hope they've sent back my dress shirts from the wash . 
O , lord ! I am sleepy . 
I left him going up to bed , and went outside and ordered a carriage to take me down , and there I may say we parted for a considerable time . 
It was a close thing , and the boatmen made a small fortune out of my hurry . 
One doesn't with people one just meets casually abroad like that . 
Promptly came back a stilted letter beginning , Doctor Coppinger regrets and so on , and with it the English translation of the wax upon talc MSS . 
He quite admitted my claim , and trusted that the profits of publication would be a sufficient reimbursement for any damage received . 
Coppinger must be made through them . 
I will say here publicly that I regret the line he has taken over the matter but as the affair has gone so far , I am disposed to follow out his proposition . 
of the translation rests with Dr . 
Coppinger and whatever revenue accrues from readers , goes to the finder of the original talc upon wax sheets , myself . 
If there is a further alteration in this arrangement , it will be announced publicly at a later date . 
But at present this appears to be most unlikely . 
MY RECALL The public official reception was over . 
With folded arms and bended head , I followed him between the glittering lines of soldiers , and the brilliant throng of courtiers , and chiefs , and statesmen . 
It was a hard task , but we who hold the higher offices learn to carry before the people a passionless face . 
Once , twenty years before , these same fine obeisances had been made to me now the Gods had seen fit to make fortune change . 
It is not often the fallen meet such tender looks . 
I think it may be pardoned to my vanity if I record that not a voice was raised against me , or against any of the items of my twenty years of rule . 
Nor did any speak out for alterations in the future . 
Yes , even though we made the circuit for the three prescribed times , all present showed their approval in generous silence . 
Tatho gave his formal summons of Open ye to the Viceroy , which the ritual commands , and the slaves within sent the massive stone valves of the door gaping wide . 
Tatho entered , I at his heels the others halted , sending valedictions from the threshold and the valves of the door clanged on the lock behind us . 
Deucalion , he said , believe me that I have not sought this office . 
It was thrust upon me . 
Had I not accepted , my head would have paid forfeit , and another man your enemy would have been sent out as viceroy in your place . 
The Empress does not permit that her will shall ever be questioned . 
For twenty years now have I ruled this country of Yucatan , and Mexico beyond , first under the old King , and then as minister to this new Empress . 
I know my colony like a book . 
I am intimate with all her wonderful cities , with their palaces , their pyramids , and their people . 
I have hunted the beasts and the savages in the forests . 
I have built roads , and made the rivers so that they will carry shipping . 
I have fostered the arts and crafts like a merchant I have discoursed , three times each day , the cult of the Gods with mine own lips . 
To you I bequeath them , Tatho , with tender supplications for their interests . 
We are alone here , I said , away from the formalities of formal assemblies , and a man may give vent to his natural self without fear of tarnishing a ceremony . 
Your coming was something of the suddenest . 
Till an hour ago , when you demanded audience , I had thought to rule on longer and even now I do not know for what cause I am deposed . 
The proclamation said 'We relieve our well beloved Deucalion of his present service , because we have great need of his powers at home in our kingdom of Atlantis . 
Tatho looked uneasily round the hangings of the chamber , and drew me with him to its centre , and lowered his voice . 
I do not think so , he whispered . 
I believe she has need of you . 
There are troublous times on hand , and Phorenice wants the ablest men in the kingdom ready to her call . 
You may speak openly , I said , and without fear of eavesdroppers . 
We are in the heart of the pyramid here , built in every way by a man's length of solid stone . 
Myself , I oversaw the laying of every course . 
And besides , here in Yucatan , we have not the niceties of your old world diplomacy , and do not listen , because we count it shame to do so . 
I acted only according to mine education . 
At home , a loose tongue makes a loose head , and there are those whose trade it is to carry tales . 
Still , what I say is this The throne shakes , and Phorenice sees the need of sturdy props . 
So she has sent this proclamation . 
But why come to me ? It is twenty years since I sailed to this colony , and from that day I have not returned to Atlantis once . 
I know little of the old country's politics . 
What small parcel of news drifts out to us across the ocean , reads with slender interest here . 
Yucatan is another world , my dear Tatho , as you in the course of your government will learn , with new interests , new people , new everything . 
To us here , Atlantis is only a figment , a shadow , far away across the waters . 
It is for this new world of Yucatan that I have striven through all these years . 
If Deucalion has small time to spare from his government for brooding over his fatherland , Atlantis , at least , has found leisure to admire the deeds of her brilliant son . 
Why , sir , over yonder at home , your name carries magic with it . 
It is Deucalion who is held up as the model and example . 
Mothers name their sons Deucalion , as the most valuable birth gift they can make . 
Deucalion is a household word . 
Indeed , there is only one name that is near to it in familiarity . 
You trouble me , I said , frowning . 
I have tried to do my duty for its own sake , and for the country's sake , not for the pattings and fondlings of the vulgar . 
And besides , if there are names to be in every one's mouth , they should be the names of the Gods . 
The Gods ? They occupy us very little these latter years . 
With our modern science , we have grown past the tether of the older Gods , and no new one has appeared . 
No , my Lord Deucalion , if it were merely the Gods who were your competitors on men's lips , your name would be a thousand times the better known . 
Of mere human names , I said , the name of this new Empress should come first in Atlantis , our lord the old King being now dead . 
She certainly would have it so , replied Tatho , and there was something in his tone which made me see that more was meant behind the words . 
I drew him to one of the marble seats , and bent myself familiarly towards him . 
The new Viceroy sighed whimsically . 
I almost forget how to speak in plain words now , he said . 
We have grown so polished in these latter days , that mere bald truth would be hissed as indelicate . 
Tell me , old friend , what is it ? What of this new Empress ? He frowned . 
I might have guessed your subject , he said . 
Tell me of all the changes that have been made . 
What has this Phorenice done to make her throne unstable in Atlantis ? Tatho frowned still . 
If I did not know you to be as honest as our Lord the Sun , your questions would carry mischief with them . 
Phorenice has a short way with those who are daring enough to discuss her policies for other purpose than politely to praise them . 
You can leave me ignorant if you wish , I said with a touch of chill . 
But he was quick enough to see my change of tone . 
In fact , you do ask me that very thing when you tell me to speak all I know of Phorenice . 
This was more like the old times , when there was full confidence between us . 
The Gods will it now that I return to Atlantis , I said , and what happens after that the Gods alone know . 
What would you have me tell ? Tell all . 
The throne was as firm as the everlasting hills in the old King's day , Tatho . 
History has moved with pace since then , and Phorenice has spurred it . 
You know her origin ? I know only the exact little I have told you . 
You see the faith I put in you , Deucalion , by telling you what you wish to learn . 
There has always been trust between us . 
I know but this habit of suspicion is hard to cast off , even with you . 
However , let me put your good faith between me and the torture further . 
Zaemon , you remember , was governor of the swineherd's province , and Zaemon's wife saw Phorenice and took her away to adopt and bring up as her own . 
But still she was an adopted daughter only , I objected . 
The omission of the 'adopted' was her will at an early age , said Tatho dryly , and she learnt early to have her wishes carried into fact . 
It was notorious that before she had grown to fifteen years she ruled not only the women of the household , but Zaemon also , and the province that was beyond Zaemon . 
Zaemon was learned , I said , and a devout follower of the Gods , and searcher into the higher mysteries but , as a ruler , he was always a flabby fellow . 
I do not say that opportunities have not come usefully in Phorenice's way , but she has genius as well . 
For her to have raised herself at all from what she was , was remarkable . 
Zaemon , when I knew him , was a mere derision in the field . 
Phorenice put down the rebellion in masterly fashion , and gave the conquered a choice between sword and service . 
They fell into her ranks at once , and were faithful to her from that moment . 
I tell you , Deucalion , there is a marvellous fascination about the woman . 
Her present historian seems to have felt it . 
Every one who sees her comes under her spell . 
And frankly , I am in love with her also , and look upon my coming here as detestable exile . 
Every one near to Phorenice , high and low , loves her just the same , even though they know it may be her whim to send them to execution next minute . 
Perhaps I let my scorn of this appear . 
You feel contempt for our weakness ? You were always a strong man , Deucalion . 
At any rate you see me still unmarried . 
I have found no time to palter with the fripperies of women . 
Ah , but these colonists here are crude and unfascinating . 
Wait till you see the ladies of the court , my ascetic . 
Yet then , also , I felt no inducement to marry . 
Atlantis has changed so that you would hardly know the country to day . 
A new era has come over everything , especially over the other sex . 
I dare swear that your ladies here in Yucatan are not so provincial to day as ours were then . 
But you should see them now at home . 
And above all in charm is the Empress . 
I may alter my life's ways . 
The Gods make all things possible . 
But for the present I remain as I am , celibate , and not wishful to be otherwise and so in the meantime I would hear the continuance of your history . 
It is one long story of success . 
She deposed Zaemon from his government in name as well as in fact , and the news was spread , and the Priestly Clan rose in its wrath . 
The two neighbouring governors were bidden join forces , take her captive , and bring her for execution . 
Poor men ! They tried to obey their orders they attacked her surely enough , but in battle she could laugh at them . 
She killed both , and made some slaughter amongst their troops and to those that remained alive and became her prisoners , she made her usual offer the sword or service . 
Naturally they were not long over making their choice to these common people one ruler is much the same as another and so again her army was reinforced . 
Three times were bodies of soldiery sent against her , and three times was she victorious . 
The last was a final effort . 
Before , it had been customary to despise this adventuress who had sprung up so suddenly . 
Every man who could carry arms was pressed into the service . 
Every known art of war was ordered to be put into employment . 
It was the largest army , and the best equipped army that Atlantis then had ever raised , and the Priestly Clan saw fit to put in supreme command their general , Tatho . 
And mark you , I fought my utmost . 
the High Council of the priests pointed out my prospects . 
These things were pointed out to me solemnly and in the full council . 
What ! They promised you the throne ? Even that . 
So you see I set out with a high stake before me . 
Phorenice I had never seen , and I swore to take her alive , and give her to be the sport of my soldiery . 
I had a fine confidence in my own strategy then , Deucalion . 
But the old Gods , in whom I trusted then , remained old , taught me no new thing . 
But when the encounter came , they might have been men of straw for all the harm they did . 
Out of her own brain Phorenice had made fire tubes that cast a dart which would kill beyond two bowshots , and the fashion in which she handled her troops dazzled me . 
They threatened us on one flank , they harassed us on the other . 
It was not war as we had been accustomed to . 
It was a newer and more deadly game , and I had to watch my splendid army eaten away as waves eat a sandhill . 
Never once did I get a chance of forcing close action . 
These new tactics that had come from Phorenice's invention , were beyond my art to meet or understand . 
We were eight to her one , and our close packed numbers only made us so much the more easy for slaughter . 
A panic came , and those who could fled . 
Myself , I had no wish to go back and earn the axe that waits for the unsuccessful general . 
I tried to die there fighting where I stood . 
But death would not come . 
It was a fine melee , Deucalion , that last one . 
And so she took you ? I stood with three others back to back , with a ring of dead round us , and a ring of the enemy hemming us in . 
We taunted them to come on . 
'What is this to do ? says she . 
'We seek to kill Lord Tatho , who led against you , say they . 
'So that is Tatho ? says she . 
'A fine figure of a man indeed , and a pretty fighter seemingly , after the old manner . 
Doubtless he is one who would acquire the newer method . 
or service under my banner . 
I am the King's man still , and so I can take no service from you . 
'The King is dead , says she . 
'A runner has just brought the tidings , meaning them to have fallen into your hands . 
And I am the Empress . 
'Who made you Empress ? I asked . 
'The same most capable hand that has given me this battle , says she . 
'It is a capable hand , as you have seen it can be a kind hand also , as you may learn if you choose . 
With the King dead , Tatho is a masterless man now . 
Is Tatho in want of a mistress ? 'Such a glorious mistress as you , I said , 'Yes . 
And from that moment , Deucalion , I have been her slave . 
Oh , you may frown you may get up from this seat and walk away if you will . 
But I ask you this keep back your worst judgment of me , old friend , till after you have seen Phorenice herself in the warm and lovely flesh . 
Then your own ears and your own senses will be my advocates , to win me back your old esteem . 
BACK TO ATLANTIS The words of Tatho were no sleeping draught for me that night . 
But , as I say , I was fully occupied with my work in the colony , and had no curiosity to pull away a veil intentionally placed . 
However , the iron discipline of our Priestly Clan left me no choice of procedure . 
As was customary , I had been deprived of my office at a moment's notice . 
Tatho , to give him credit , was anxious to further my interests to the utmost in his power . 
He was by my side again before the dawn , putting all his resources at my disposal . 
I had little enough to ask him . 
A ship to take me home , I said , and I shall be your debtor . 
The request seemed to surprise him . 
That you may certainly have if you wish it . 
But my ships are foul with the long passage , and are in need of a careen . 
If you take them , you will make a slow voyage of it to Atlantis . 
Why do you not take your own navy ? The ships are in harbour now , for I saw them there when we came in . 
Brave ships they are too . 
That navy belongs to Yucatan . 
Well , Deucalion , you are Yucatan or , rather , you were yesterday , and have been these twenty years . 
I saw what he meant , and the idea did not please me . 
I answered stiffly enough that the ships were owned by private merchants , or belonged to the State , and I could not claim so much as a ten slave galley . 
One never knows when a recall may be sent , and , through lack of these precautions , a life's earnings may very well be lost in a dozen hours . 
I have no fear for mine , I said coldly . 
Of course not , because you know me to be your friend . 
But had another man been appointed to this vice royalty , you might have been sadly shorn , Deucalion . 
It is not many fellows who can resist a snug hoard ready and waiting in the very coffers they have come to line . 
My Lord Tatho , I said , it is clear to me that you and I have grown to be of different tastes . 
All of the hoard that I have made for myself in this colony , few men would covet . 
I have the poor clothes you see me in this moment , and a box of drugs such as I have found useful to the stomach . 
I possess also three slaves , two of them scribes and the third a sturdy savage from Europe , who cooks my victual and fills for me the bath . 
Tatho looked at me curiously . 
I do not know whether I admire you most or whether I pity . 
I do not know whether to be astonished or to despise . 
Why , man , money is power . 
With money and the resources money can buy , nothing could stop a fellow like you whilst without it you may be tripped up and trodden down irrevocably at the first puny reverse . 
The Gods will choose my fate . 
Possibly but for mine , I prefer to nourish it myself . 
I tell you with frankness that I have not come here to follow in the pattern you have made for a vice royalty . 
I shall govern Yucatan wisely and well to the best of my ability but I shall govern it also for the good of Tatho , the viceroy . 
I have brought with me here my navy of eight ships and a personal bodyguard . 
There is my wife also , and her women and her slaves . 
All these must be provided for . 
And why indeed should it be otherwise ? If a people is to be governed , it should be their privilege to pay handsomely for their prince . 
We shall not agree on this . 
You have the power now , and can employ it as you choose . 
If I thought it would be of any use , I should like to supplicate you most humbly to deal with lenience when you come to tax these people who are under you . 
They have grown very dear to me . 
I have disgusted you with me , and I am grieved for it . 
But even to retain your good opinion , Deucalion which I value more than that of any man living I cannot do here as you have done . 
It would be impossible , even if I wished it . 
You must not judge all other men by your own strong standard a Tatho is by no means a colossus like a Deucalion . 
And besides , I have a wife and children , and they must be provided for , even if I neglect myself . 
Ah , there , I said , it does seem that I possess the advantage . 
I have no wife , to clog me . 
He caught up my word quickly . 
It seems to me you have nothing that makes life worth living . 
You have neither wife , children , riches , cooks , retinue , dresses , nor anything else in proportion to your station . 
You will pardon my saying it , old comrade , but you are plaguey ignorant about some matters . 
For example , you do not know how to dine . 
Oh , I tell you that feast was one of the vividest things that ever came before my eyes . 
And then when we get to the actuality , what was it ? Why , a country farmer every day sits down to more delicate fare . 
You told me how it was prepared . 
Well , your savage from Europe may be lusty , and perchance is faithful , but be is a devil possessed cook . 
Gods ! I have lived better on a campaign . 
Gods ! Deucalion , have you forgotten what it is to have a palate ? And have you no esteem for your own dignity ? Man , look at your clothes . 
You are garbed like a herdsman , and you have not a gaud or a jewel to brighten you . 
I eat , I said coldly , when my hunger bids me , and I carry this one robe upon my person till it is worn out and needs replacement . 
The grossness of excessive banqueting , and the effeminacy of many clothes are attainments that never met my fancy . 
But I think we have talked here over long , and there seems little chance of our finding agreement . 
You have changed , Tatho , with the years , and perhaps I have changed also . 
These alterations creep imperceptibly into one's being as time advances . 
Let us part now , and , forgetting these present differences , remember only our friendship of twenty years agone . 
That for me , at any rate , has always had a pleasant savour when called up into the memory . 
So be it , he said . 
And I would still charge myself upon your bounty for that ship . 
So be it , said Tatho . 
You shall have my poor navy . 
I could have wished that you had asked me something greater . 
Not the navy , Tatho one small ship . 
Believe me , more is wasted . 
Now , there , said Tatho , I shall act the tyrant . 
I am viceroy here now , and will have my way in this . 
You may go naked of all possessions that I cannot help . 
But depart for Atlantis unattended , that you shall not . 
But the start was not immediate . 
For myself there came then , as the first time during twenty busy years , a breathing space from work . 
I had no further connection with the country of my labours indeed , officially , I had left it already . 
Would Tatho continue the work so healthily begun ? I trusted so , even in spite of his selfish words . 
The refitting of the navy was gone about with speed . 
Never , it is said , had ships been reprovisioned and caulked , and remanned with greater speed for the over ocean voyage . 
In another matter also has navigation vastly improved . 
It is not necessary now , as formerly , to trust wholly to a starry night to find direction . 
So , by setting an angle , can a just course be correctly steered . 
Still , it is amusing to see these tarry fellows , even in this modern day , take their last farewell of the harbour town . 
The ship is stowed , and all ready for sea , and they wash and put on all their bravery of attire . 
The voyage was very different to my previous sea going . 
There was no creeping timorously along in touch with the coasts . 
These commodities , too , the savages brought us freely , so great was their subjection , and in neither place did we have even the semblance of a fight . 
It was a great certificate of the growing power of Atlantis and her finest over sea colony . 
Then boldly on we went across the vast ocean beyond , with never a sacrifice to implore the Gods that they should help our direction . 
One might feel censure towards these rugged mariners for their impiety , but one could not help an admiration for their lusty skill and confidence . 
The dangers of the desolate sea are dealt out as the Gods will , and man can only take them as they come . 
The hour of their onset was during the blazing midday heat , and the Sun being at the full of His power , our machines were getting full force from Him . 
The vessel was travelling forward faster than a man on dry land could walk . 
But for the power escape she might as well have been standing still when the beasts sighted her . 
It was plain they were making for our ship , and Tob , the captain , would have had me go into the after castle , and there be secure from their marauding . 
would have to give himself voluntarily to the beasts then , to escape a very painful death at Tatho's hands later on . 
However , my mind was set . 
, and stayed in my chair under the awning . 
The beasts surged up to us with champing jaws , and all the shipmen stood armed on their defence . 
on the flank of the ship , the giant male by himself on the other . 
Their great heads swooped about , as high as the yards that held the sails , and the reek from them gave one physical sickness . 
The shipmen faced the monsters with a sturdy courage . 
Arrows were useless against the smooth , bull like hides . 
And upon the great oceans , the beasts are lords , unchecked . 
Still here , upon this desolate sea , although the giant lizards were new to me , it was a pleasure to pit my knowledge of war against their brute strength and courage . 
Ever since the first men did their business upon the great waters , they fulfilled their instincts in fighting the beasts with desperation . 
It was in a one sided conflict after this fashion then , that I found myself , and felt the joy once more to have my thews in action . 
The decks were slippery with the horrid slime of them . 
The crew surged about in their battling , and , moreover , constantly offered themselves as a rampart before me by reason of Tob , the captain's threats . 
But I gave a few shrewd progues with the lance to show that I did not choose my will to be overridden , and presently was given room for manoeuvre . 
Deliberately I placed myself in the sight of one of the lizards , and offered my body to its attack . 
It swooped like a dropping stone , and I swerved and drove in the lance at its oozy eye . 
I thanked the Gods then that I had been trained with the lance till certain aim was a matter of instinct with me . 
The blade went true to its mark and stuck there , and the shaft broke in my hand . 
The beast drew off , blinded and bellowing , and beating the sea with its paddles . 
against its back , thereby enduring new agonies , but without dislodging the weapon . 
And then presently , finding this of no avail , it set off for the place from which it came with extraordinary quickness , and rapidly grew smaller against the horizon . 
The male and the other female lizard had also left us , but not in similar plight . 
It is pleasant when one's old friends do not omit to pay these little attentions . 
through the salt , unnatural food inseparable from shipboard . 
to fight for their lives and their vessels . 
From the moment that I was deposed in Yucatan , despite Tatho's assurances , there had been doubts in my mind as to what nature would be my reception in Atlantis . 
But I had faced this event of the future without concern it was in the hands of the Gods . 
On which account , therefore , I had not troubled myself about the matter during the voyage , but had followed out my calm study of the higher mysteries with an unloaded mind . 
They were clean and bright and black our ships were storm ragged and weather worn , and had bottoms that were foul with trailing ocean weed . 
They had no wish to smell slavery , now that the voyage had come so near to its end . 
The course was unusual , but we , in our sea battered state , were no navy to invite a fight unnecessarily . 
, to show that we were ready for talk , and would respect the person of an ambassador . 
The galley drew on , swung round , and backed till its stern rasped on our shield rail , and one of her people clambered up and jumped down upon our decks . 
Then , seeing Tob , he nodded as one meets an acquaintance . 
Old pot mate , he said , your woman waits for you up by the quay side in Atlantis yonder , with four youngsters at her heels . 
I saw her not half a month ago . 
You didn't come out here to tell me home news , said Tob that I'll be sworn . 
I've drunk enough pots with you , Dason , to know your pleasantries thoroughly . 
I wanted to point out to you that your home is still there , with your wife and children ready to welcome you . 
We took no treasure or merchandise on board in Yucatan . 
We stayed in harbour long enough to cure our sea victual and fill with food and water , and no longer . 
We sail back as we sailed out , barren ships . 
You will not believe me , of course I would not have believed you had our places been changed but you may go into the holds and search if you choose . 
You will find there nothing but a few poor sailormen half in pieces with the scurvy . 
No , you can steal nothing here but blows , Dason , and we will give you those with but little asking . 
You had better speak more plain , he said . 
I am a common sailor , and do not understand fancy talk . 
It is clear to see , said Dason , that you have been set to bring Deucalion back to Atlantis as a prop for Phorenice . 
Well , we others find Phorenice hard enough to fight against without further reinforcements , and so we want Deucalion in our own custody to deal with after our own fashion . 
And if I do the miser , and deny you this piece of my freight ? The spruce envoy looked round at the splintered ship , and the battered navy beside her . 
I doubt it , said Tob , but we shall see . 
As for letting you have my Lord Deucalion , that is out of the question . 
Well , Tob , I hope you'll drown easy . 
As for that wife of yours , I've always had a fancy for her myself , and I shall know how to find a use for the woman . 
I'll draw your neck for that , you son of a European , said Tob and if you do not clear off this deck I'll draw it here . 
Upon which Dason went to his galley . 
Promptly Tob set going the machine on our own Bear , and bawled his orders right and left to the other ships . 
The crew might be weak with scurvy , but they were quick to obey . 
Instantly the five vessels were all started , and because our Lord the Sun was shining brightly , got soon to the full of their pace . 
But if we thus brought the enemy's number down to five , and so equal to our own , the advantage did not remain with us for long . 
And then commenced a tight locked melee that would have warmed the heart of the greatest warrior alive . 
The ships and the galleys were forced together and lay savagely grinding one another upon the swells , as though they had been sentient animals . 
The men on board them shot their arrows , slashed with axes , thrust and hacked with swords , and hurled the throwing fire . 
But in every way the fight converged upon the Bear . 
So I can speak here as a man of experience . 
Up till that time , for half a life span , I had heard men shout Deucalion as a battlecry , and in my day had seen some lusty encounters . 
But this sea fight surprised even me in its savage fierceness . 
But these tarry shipmen faced it all with an indomitable courage , and never a cry of quailing . 
so full of savage dangers , that Death has lost half his terrors to them through sheer familiarity . 
The enemy had a dozen rallying cries , and these confused them . 
One by one all the ships of either side were sunk or lay with all their people killed , till finally only Dason's galley and our own Bear were left . 
For the moment we were being mastered . 
But Tob was nothing daunted . 
They may stay here and fry if they choose , he shouted with his great boisterous laugh , but for ourselves the galley is good enough now . 
There was no stopping this new rush , though progress still was slow . 
Tob with his bloody axe cut the road in front , and we others , with the lust of battle filling us to the chin , raged like furies in his wake . 
Gods ! but it was a fight . 
Ten of us won to the galley , with the flames and the smoke from the poor Bear spurting at our heels . 
We turned and stabbed madly at all who tried to follow , and hacked through the grapples that held the vessels to their embrace . 
The sea swells spurned the Bear away . 
, and I'll leave her to perform on your carcase as she sees fit by way of payment or , as the other choice , I'll deal with you here now myself . 
I thank you for the chance , said Dason , and knelt and offered his neck to the axe . 
So Tob cut off his head , sticking it on the galley's beak as an advertisement of what had been done . 
And so we were free to get a meal of the fruits and the fresh meats which the galley offered , whilst the oar slaves sent the galley rushing onwards towards the capital . 
There was a wine skin in the after castle , and I filled a horn and poured some out at Tob's feet in salutation . 
My man , I said , you have shown me a fight . 
Thanks , said he , and I know you are a judge . 
'Twas pretty whilst it lasted and , seeing that my lads were , for the most , scurvy rotten , I will say they fought with credit . 
I have lost my Lord Tatho's navy , but I think Phorenice will see me righted there . 
The Gods will decide what is best for you , Tob , even as they have decided that it is best that I should go on to Atlantis . 
But he changed his mind , and emptied it down his throat instead . 
It is thirsty work , this fighting , he said , and that drink comes very useful . 
I put my hand on his blood smeared arm . 
Tob filled another brimming horn from the wine skin and splashed it at my feet . 
That's good enough surety for me , he said , that my woman and brats never want from this day onward . 
The Lord Deucalion for the block , indeed ! . 
It was clear that I was expected to play a lusty part in the fortunes of the nation . 
But if our coming had been watched for by enemies it seemed that Phorenice also had her scouts and these saw us from the mountains , and carried news to the capital . 
The arm of the sea at the head of which the vast city of Atlantis stands , varies greatly in width . 
Of course there were heavy risks that a lone traveller would not make a safe passage by this land route , if he were bidden to sacrifice all precautions to speed . 
But Phorenice was no niggard with her couriers . 
Still , about this we had no means of knowing at the time , and pushed on in fancy that our coming was quite unheralded . 
It was twenty years since I had seen Atlantis last , and my heart glowed with the thought of treading again upon her paving stones . 
The splendid city grew out of the sea as we approached , and to every throb of the oars , the shores leaped nearer . 
I made out the house where a father and a mother had reared me , and my eyes became dim as the memories rose . 
We drew up outside the white walls of the harbour , as the law was , and the slaves panted and sobbed in quietude over the oar looms . 
But here for us it might have been that the port captain's boat was waiting . 
She raced up alongside and the questions were put That should be Dason's galley ? It was , said Tob . 
Oh , I saw Dason's head on your beak , said the port captain . 
You were Tatho's captain ? And am still . 
The port captain was roving his eye over the group of us who stood on the after deck . 
I fear me , captain , that you'll have but a dangerous reception . 
I do not see my Lord Deucalion . 
What with Phorenice and Tatho both so curious for his welfare , said Tob , my Lord Deucalion seems but a dangerous passenger . 
But I shall save my hide this voyage . 
He jerked at me with his thumb . 
He's there to put in a word for me himself . 
The port captain stared for a moment , as if unbelieving , and then , as though satisfied , made obeisance like a fellow well used to ceremonial . 
I trust my lord , in his infinite strength , will pardon my sin in not knowing him by his nobleness before . 
But truth to tell , I had looked to see my lord more suitably apparelled . 
Pish , I said if I choose to dress simply , I cannot object to being mistaken for a simple man . 
It is not my pleasure to advertise my quality by the gauds on my garb . 
If you think amends are due to me , I pray of your charity that this inquisition may end . 
The fellow was all bows and obsequiousness . 
I am the humblest of my lord's servants , he said . 
It will be my exceeding honour to pilot my lord's galley into the berth appointed in harbour . 
The boat shot ahead , and our galley slaves swung into stroke again . 
Tob watched me with a dry smile as he stood directing the men at the helms . 
You don't think , said I , anything of the kind . 
Then I must prove my refinement , said Tob , and not contradict . 
He picked up my hand in his huge , hard fist , and pressed it . 
By the Gods , Deucalion , you may be a great prince , but I've only known you as a man . 
You're the finest fighter of beasts and men that walks this world to day , and I love you for it . 
That spear stroke of yours on the lizard is a thing the singers in the taverns shall make chaunts about . 
We drew rapidly into the harbour , the soldiers in the entrance castle blowing their trumpets in welcome as we passed between them . 
I was almost awed to think that an Empress of Atlantis had come to such straits as to feel an interest like this in any mere returning subject . 
It was clear that nothing was to be done by halves . 
The port captain's boat led , and we had no choice but to follow . 
Our galley was run up alongside the royal quay and moored to its posts and rings of gold , all of which are sacred to the reigning house . 
I'm sure there'd be a frown on Dason's head this minute , if the sun hadn't scorched it stiff . 
Once more I must prepare myself for all the dignity of rank , and make ready to tread the formalities of vast and gorgeous ceremonial . 
Again the matter of clothes was harped upon . 
Of course , he had to confess that there were none . 
Upon which I retorted that Phorenice had commanded Deucalion , the man , to attend before her , and had sent no word of her pleasure as to his outer casing . 
This dress , I said , suits my temper well . 
It shields my poor body from the heat and the wind , and , moreover , it is clean . 
It seems to me , sirs , I added , that your interfering savours somewhat of an impertinence . 
With one accord the chamberlains drew their swords and pushed the hilts towards me . 
It would be a favour , said their spokesman , if the great Lord Deucalion would take his vengeance now , instead of delivering us to the tormentors hereafter . 
Poof , I said , the matter is forgotten . 
You make too much of a little . 
Nevertheless , their action gave me some enlightenment . 
The chamberlains were too well bred to break into my calm , and I did not condescend to small talk . 
at the moment that Tob's galley was reported as having its flank against the marble of the royal quay , at that precise moment did she start out from the palace . 
Sitting in the doorway of the pavilion , I saw the soldiery who formed the head of this vast concourse emerge from the great broad street where it left the houses . 
They marched straight across to give me the salute , and then ranged themselves on the farther side of the square . 
Then came the Mariners' Guild , then more soldiers , all making obeisance in their turn , and passing on to make room for others . 
that they might make a pageant and whilst most walked on foot , there were some who proudly rode on beasts which they had tamed into rendering them this menial service . 
But presently came the two wonders of all that dazzling spectacle . 
From out of the eclipse of the houses there swung into the open no less a beast than a huge bull mammoth . 
The sight had sufficient surprise in it almost to make me start . 
Many a time during my life had I led hunts to kill the mammoth , when a herd of them had raided some village or cornland under my charge . 
Its tameness seemed a fitting symbol of the masterful strength of this new ruler of Atlantis . 
Simultaneously with the mammoth , there came into sight that other and greater wonder , the mammoth's mistress , the Empress Phorenice . 
On your knees , my lord , said one of the chamberlains behind me , in a scared whisper . 
At least with bent head , urged another . 
She was clearly summing me up . 
I was frankly doing the like by her . 
Gods ! but those few short seconds made me see a woman such as I never imagined could have lived . 
I know I have placed it on record earlier in this writing that , during all the days of a long official life , women have had no influence over me . 
But this woman who sat under the sacred snakes in her golden half castle on the mammoth's back , fairly baffled me . 
Of her thoughts I could read no single syllable . 
I could see a body slight , supple , and beautifully moulded in figure rather small . 
At the same time also all the other machinery of splendour was put in motion . 
Phorenice turned to me with a smile . 
You piqued me , she said , at first . 
Your Majesty overwhelms me with so much notice . 
You looked at my steed before you looked at me . 
A woman finds it hard to forgive a slight like that . 
I envied you the greatest of your conquests , and do still . 
I have fought mammoths myself , and at times have killed , but I never dared even to think of taking one alive and bringing it into tameness . 
You speak boldly , she said , still smiling , and yet you can turn a pretty compliment . 
Faugh ! Deucalion , the way these people fawn on me gives me a nausea . 
I am not of the same clay as they are , I know but just because I am the daughter of Gods they must needs feed me on the pap of insincerity . 
So Tatho was right , and the swineherd was forgotten . 
Well , if she chose to keep up the fiction she had made , it was not my part to contradict her . 
Rightly or wrongly I was her servant . 
I have been pining this long enough for a stronger meat than they can give , she went on , and at last I have sent for you . 
I can admire a man with a mind great enough to forego the silly gauds of clothes , or the excesses of feasts , or the pamperings of women . 
She looked down at her own silks and her glittering jewels . 
We women like to carry colours upon our persons , but that is a different matter . 
And so I sent for you here to be my minister , and bear with me the burden of ruling . 
There should be better men in broad Atlantis . 
There are not , my lord , and I who know them all by heart tell you so . 
So I have sent for you , Deucalion , the one strong man in all the world . 
You at least will not sigh to be my lover ? I saw her watching for my answer from the corner of her eyes . 
The Empress , I said , is my mistress , and I will be an honest minister to her . 
With Phorenice , the woman , it is likely that I shall have little enough to do . 
Besides , I am not the sort that sports with this toy they call love . 
And yet you are a personable man enough , she said rather thoughtfully . 
But that still further proves your strength , Deucalion . 
You at least will not lose your head through weak infatuation for my poor looks and graces . 
She turned to the girl who stood behind us . 
Ylga , fan not so violently . 
Our talk broke off then for the moment , and I had time to look about me . 
We were passing through the chief street in the fairest , the most wonderful city this world has ever seen . 
I had left it a score of years before , and was curious to note its increase . 
In public buildings the city had certainly made growth there were new temples , new pyramids , new palaces , and statuary everywhere . 
It was imperial and gorgeous beyond descriptive words . 
Yet most of all was I struck by the poverty and squalor which stood in such close touch with all this magnificence . 
In the throngs that lined the streets there were gaunt bodies and hungry faces everywhere . 
Here and there stood one , a man or a woman , as naked as a savage in Europe , and yet dull to shame . 
Phorenice read the direction of my looks . 
The season , she said , has been unhealthy of recent months . 
And then , too , for the moment , earning is not easy . 
Indeed , you may say trade is nearly stopped this last half year , since the rebels have been hammering so lustily at my city gates . 
I was fairly startled out of my decorum . 
If they were fighting , your ears would have told you of it . 
To give them their due , they are noisy enough in all their efforts . 
My spies say they are making ready new engines for use against the walls , which you may sally out to morrow and break if it gives you amusement . 
But for to day , Deucalion , I have you , and you have me , and there is peace round us , and some prettiness of display . 
If you ask for more I will give it you . 
This is a matter we should be serious upon . 
And do you think I cannot take it seriously also ? she retorted . 
Ylga , she said to the girl that stood behind , set loose my dress at the shoulder . 
, she herself stripped down the fabric , baring the pure skin beneath , and showing me just below the curve of the left breast a bandage of bloodstained linen . 
There is a guarantee of my seriousness yesterday , at any rate , she said , looking at me sidelong . 
The arrow struck on a rib and that saved me . 
If it had struck between , Deucalion would have been standing beside my funeral pyre to day instead of riding on this pretty steed of mine which he admires so much . 
Your eye seems to feast itself most on the mammoth , Deucalion . 
I am not one of your shaggy creatures , and so it seems I shall never be able to catch your regard . 
Ylga , she said to the girl behind , you may link my dress up again with its clasp . 
My Lord Deucalion has seen wounds before , and there is nothing else here to interest him . 
ZAEMON'S CURSE It appeared that for the present at any rate I was to have my residence in the royal pyramid . 
The glittering cavalcade drew up in the great paved square which lies before the building , and massed itself in groups . 
I glanced in the direction of the scoffers , frowningly enough , and then I turned to Phorenice to demand their prompt punishment for the disrespect . 
But here was a strange thing . 
Moreover , she was regarding me with a queer look which I could not fathom . 
But whatever was in her mind , she had no plan to bawl about it then before the people collected in the square . 
She said to me , Come , and , turning to the doorway , cried for entrance , giving the secret word appointed for the day . 
With a heaviness beginning to grow at my heart , I too went inside the pyramid , and the stone doors , with a sullen thud , closed behind us . 
We did not go far just then . 
Phorenice halted in the hall of waiting . 
The old King that was gone had come this far of his complaisance when he bade me farewell as I set out twenty years before for my vice royalty in Yucatan . 
But the air of the hall was different to what it had been in those old days . 
Then it was pure and sweet . 
Now it was heavy with some scent , and I found it languid and oppressive . 
My minister , said the Empress , I acquit you of intentional insult but I think the colonial air has made you a very simple man . 
Such an obeisance as you showed to that mountain not a minute since has not been made since I was sent to reign over this kingdom . 
Your Majesty , I said , I am a member of the Priests' Clan and was brought up in their tenets . 
I have been taught , before entering a house , to thank the Gods , and more especially our Lord the Sun , for the good air that He and They have provided . 
Circumstances have changed since you left Atlantis , said Phorenice , and when thanks are given now , they are not thrown at those old Gods . 
I saw her meaning , and almost started at the impiety of it . 
If this was to be the new rule of things , I would have no hand in it . 
Fate might deal with me as it chose . 
So I invited a crisis . 
Phorenice , I said , I have been a priest from my childhood up , revering the Gods , and growing intimate with their mysteries . 
Till I find for myself that those old things are false , I must stand by that allegiance , and if there is a cost for this faithfulness I must pay it . 
She looked at me with a slow smile . 
You are a strong man , Deucalion , she said . 
I have heard others as stubborn , she said , but they were converted . 
She shook out the ruddy bunches of her hair , and stood so that the light of the burning earth breath might fall on the loveliness of her face and form . 
I have found it as easy to convert the stubborn as to burn them . 
Indeed , there has been little talk of burning . 
They have all rushed to conversion , whether I would or no . 
But it seems that my poor looks and tongue are wanting in charm to day . 
Phorenice is Empress , I said stolidly , and I am her servant . 
To morrow , if she gives me leave , I will clear away this rabble which clamours outside the walls . 
I must begin to prove my uses . 
I am told you are a pretty fighter , said she . 
Well , I hold some small skill in arms myself , and have a conceit that I am something of a judge . 
To morrow we will take a taste of battle together . 
But to day I must carry through the honourable reception I have planned for you , Deucalion . 
The feast will be set ready soon , and you will wish to make ready for the feast . 
There are chambers here selected for your use , and stored with what is needful . 
Ylga will show you their places . 
we also threaded our way through the narrow mazes of the pyramid . 
There was a fine cunningness about those forgotten builders who set up this royal pyramid . 
They had no mind that kings should fall by the hand of vulgar assassins who might come in suddenly from outside . 
But the fan girl led the way with the lamp swinging in her hand , as one accustomed to the mazes . 
Here she doubled , there she turned , and here she stopped in the middle of a blank wall to push a stone , which swung to let us pass . 
And once she pressed at the corner of a flagstone on the floor , which reared up to the thrust of her foot , and showed us a stair steep and narrow . 
That we descended , coming to the foot of an inclined way which led us upward again and so by degrees we came unto the chamber which had been given for my use . 
There is raiment in all these chests which stand by the walls , said the girl , and jewels and gauds in that bronze coffer . 
They are Phorenice's first presents , she bid me say , and but a small earnest of what is to come . 
My Lord Deucalion can drop his simplicity now , and fig himself out in finery to suit the fashion . 
Girl , I said sharply , be more decorous with your tongue , and spare me such small advice . 
If my Lord Deucalion thinks this a rudeness , he can give a word to Phorenice , and I shall be whipped . 
If he asks it , I can be stripped and scourged before him . 
The Empress will do much for Deucalion just now . 
Girl , I said , you are nearer to that whipping than you think for . 
I have got a name , she retorted , looking at me sullenly from under her black brows . 
You might have heard that as we rode here on the mammoth , had you not been so wrapped up in Phorenice . 
I gazed at her curiously . 
You have never seen me before , I said , and the first words you utter are those that might well bring trouble to yourself . 
There is some object in all this . 
She went and pushed to the massive stone that swung in the doorway of the chamber . 
Then she put her little jewelled fingers on my garment and drew me carefully away from the airshaft into the farther corner . 
I am the daughter of Zaemon , she said , whom you knew . 
You bring me some message from him ? How could I ? He lives in the priests' dwellings on the Mountain you did obeisance to . 
I have not put eyes on him these two years . 
But when I saw you first step out from that red pavilion they had pitched at the harbour side , I I felt a pity for you , Deucalion . 
I remembered you were my father's , Zaemon's , friend , and I knew what Phorenice had in store . 
She has been plotting it all these two months . 
I cannot hear words against the Empress . 
And yet What ? She stamped her sandal upon the stone of the floor . 
You must be a very blind man , Deucalion , or a very daring one . 
But I shall not interfere further at least not now . 
Still , I shall watch , and if at any time you seem to want a friend I will try and serve you . 
I thank you for your friendship . 
You seem to take it lightly enough . 
Why , sir , even now I do not believe you know my power , any more than you guess my motive . 
You may be first man in this kingdom , but let me tell you I rank as second lady . 
And remember , women stand high in Atlantis now . 
Believe me , my friendship is a commodity that has been sought with frequence and industry . 
And as I say , I am grateful for it . 
Well , she said , my lord , there is an education before you . 
holding out the virtues of a score of perfumes and unguents . 
It is strange , but a common menial can often surpass even a rebellious general in power of ruffling one . 
Nay , it did more it shocked me profoundly and I cannot say whether amazement at her profanity , or wonder at her power , was for the moment strongest in my breast . 
the whole massive fabric of the pyramid trembled and groaned and shook , as though it had been merely a child's wooden toy brushed about by a strong man's sandal . 
It was the portent served out yearly by the chiefs of the Priests' Clan on the Sacred Mountain , when they bade all the world take count of their sins . 
And here the Empress was prostituting its solemnities into a mere call to gluttony , and sign for ribald laughter and sensuous display . 
Though she might be none of my making , at least she was Empress , and it was my duty to give her obedience . 
But if she had suborned some weaker member of the Clan on the Sacred Mount , that would be a different matter . 
The scene there was dazzling . 
The majestic chamber with its marvellous carvings was filled with a company decked out with all the gauds and colours that fancy could conceive . 
They were all gluttonous for the passions of the moment it was their fashion and conceit to look at nothing beyond . 
But there was no roar of welcome . 
Deucalion , they lisped with mincing voices , bowing themselves ridiculously to the ground so that all their ornaments and silks might jangle and swish . 
Indeed , when Phorenice herself appeared , and all sent up their cries and made lawful obeisance , there was the same artificiality in the welcome . 
They meant well enough , it is true but this was the new fashion . 
Heartiness had come to be accounted a barbarism by this new culture . 
A pair of posturing , smirking chamberlains took me in charge , and ushered me with their flimsy golden wands to the dais at the farther end . 
It appeared that I was to sit on Phorenice's divan , and eat my meat out of her dish . 
There is no stint to the honour the Empress puts upon me , I said , as I knelt down and took my seat . 
She gave me one of her queer , sidelong looks . 
Deucalion may have more beside , if he asks for it prettily . 
He may have what all the other men in the known world have sighed for , and what none of them will ever get . 
But I have given enough of my own accord he must ask me warmly for those further favours . 
I ask , I said , first , that I may sweep the boundaries clear of this rabble which is clamouring against the city walls . 
Pah , she said , and frowned . 
Have you appetite only for the sterner pleasures of life ? My good Deucalion , they must have been rustic folk in that colony of yours . 
Well , you shall give me news now of the toothsomeness of this feast . 
Dishes and goblets were placed before us , and we began to eat , though I had little enough appetite for victual so broken and so highly spiced . 
But if this finicking cookery and these luscious wines did not appeal to me , the other diners in that gorgeous hall appreciated it all to the full . 
Women and men both , they lingered over each titillation of the palate as though it were a caress of the Gods . 
would put it away in the folds of his clothes as a treasure too dear to be profaned by human lips . 
To me , this flattery appeared gross and disgustful , but Phorenice , through use , perhaps , seemed to take it as merely her due . 
There was , one had to suppose , a weakness in her somewhere , though truly to the outward seeing none was apparent . 
Her face was strong enough , and it was subtle also , and , moreover , it was wondrous comely . 
There was an honesty in Ylga's face which Phorenice's lacked . 
To me some of their manners were closely touching on disrespect . 
Most astounding Empress , cried he , fairest among the Goddesses , Queen regnant of my adoring heart , hail ! Phorenice with a smile stretched him out her cup . 
I looked to see him pour respectful libation , but no such thing . 
He set the drink to his lips and drained it to the final drop . 
May all your troubles , he cried , pass from you as easily , and leave as pleasant a flavour . 
The Empress turned to me with one of her quick looks . 
You still keep to the old austere teachings , she said . 
Our newer code bids us enjoy life first , and order other things so as not to meddle with our more immediate pleasure . 
But a term was put to the orgy with something of suddenness . 
There was a stir at the farther doorway of the banqueting hall , and a clash , as two of the guards joined their spears across the entrance . 
But the man they tried to stop or perhaps it was to pin passed them unharmed , and walked up over the pavement between the lights , and the groups of feasters . 
All looked round at him a few threw him ribald words but none ventured to stop his progress . 
He was a frail old man , with white hair tumbling on his shoulders , and ragged white beard . 
The mud of wayfaring hung in clots on his feet and legs . 
That wand went to show his caste , but in no other way could I recognize him . 
A silence filled the room when the old man came to his halt , and Phorenice was the first to break it . 
Those two guards , she said , in her clear , carrying voice , who held the door , are not equal to their work . 
I cannot have imperfect servants remove them . 
The soldiers next in the rank lifted their spears and drove them home , and the two fellows who had admitted the old man fell to the ground . 
One shrieked once , the other gave no sound they were clever thrusts both . 
The old man found his voice , thin , and high , and broken . 
Another crime added to your tally , Phorenice . 
Not half your army could have hindered my entrance had I wished to come , and let me tell you that I am here to bring you your last warning . 
The Gods have shown you much favour they gave you merit by which you could rise above your fellows , till at last only the throne stood above you . 
The Empress sat back on the divan smiling . 
I seemed to get these things as I chose , and in spite of your friends' teeth . 
The old man waved aside her interruption . 
Hear me out , he said . 
I am here with no trivial message . 
There is nothing paltry about the threat I can throw at you , Phorenice . 
It may be that you are becoming enervated I do not know . 
It may be that you are too wrapped up in your feastings , your dressings , your pomps , and your debaucheries , to find leisure to turn to the art of war . 
It may be that the man's spirit has gone out from your arm and brain , and you are a woman once more weak , and pleasure loving again I do not know . 
It cannot be permitted that the country should sink back into the lawlessness and barbarism from which its ancient kings have digged it . 
Now give me true answer . 
Oh ! For the sake of your fortune , speak him fair , came Ylga's voice in a hurried whisper from behind us . 
But the Empress took no notice of it . 
She leaned forward on the cushions of the divan with a knit brow . 
Do you dare to threaten me , old man , knowing what I am ? I know your origin , he said gravely , as well as you know it yourself . 
As for my daring , that is a small matter . 
He need be but a timid man who dares to say words that the High Gods put on his lips . 
I shall rule this kingdom as I choose . 
I shall brook interference from no creature on this earth , or beneath it , or in the sky above . 
The Gods have chosen me to be Their regent in Atlantis , and They do not depose me through such creatures as you . 
Go away , old man , and play the fanatic in another court . 
It is well that I have an ancient kindliness for you , or you would not leave this place unharmed . 
Now , indeed , you are lost , I heard Ylga murmur from behind , and the old man in front of us did not move a step . 
Instead , he lifted up the Symbol of our Lord the Sun , and launched his curse . 
Your blasphemy gives the reply I asked for . 
Hear me now make declaration of war on behalf of Those against whom you have thrown your insults . 
You shall be overthrown and sent to the nether Gods . 
At whatever cost the land shall be purged of you and yours , and all the evil that has been done to it whilst you have sullied the throne of its ancient kings . 
You will not amend , neither will you yield tamely . 
You vaunt that you sit as firm on your throne as this pyramid reposes on its base . 
See how little you know of what the future carries . 
You may wreck the pyramid , said Phorenice contemptuously . 
I myself have some knowledge of the earth forces , as I have shown this night . 
But though you crumble every stone above us now and grind it into grit and dust , I shall still be Empress . 
But that weapon can be used only as a last resource . 
The nature of it even is too awful to be told in words . 
Our other powers will be launched against you first , and for this poor country's sake I pray that they may cause you to wince . 
Yet rest assured , Phorenice , that we shall not step aside once we have put a hand to this matter . 
We shall carry it through , even though the cost be a universal burning and destruction . 
For know this , daughter of the swineherd , it is agreed amongst the most High Gods that you are too full of sin to continue unchecked . 
Speak him fairly , Ylga urged from behind . 
He has a power at which you cannot even guess . 
The Empress made to rise , but Ylga clung to her skirt . 
For the sake of your fame , she urged , for the sake of your life , do not defy him . 
But Phorenice struck her fiercely aside , and faced the old man in a tumult of passion . 
Do you hear me ? I say , whipped . 
The lean flesh shall be scourged from your scraggy bones , and you shall totter away from this place as a red and bleeding example for those who would dare traduce their Empress . 
Here , some of you , I say , take that man , and let him be whipped where he stands . 
Her cry went out clearly enough . 
But not a soul amongst those glittering feasters stirred in his place . 
Not a soldier amongst the guards stepped from his rank . 
The place was hung in a terrible silence . 
It seemed as though no one within the hall dared so much as to draw a breath . 
All felt that the very air was big with fate . 
Phorenice , with her head crouched forward , looked from one group to another . 
Have I no true servants , she asked , amongst all you pretty lip servers ? Still no one moved . 
They stood , or sat , or crouched like people fascinated . 
For myself , with the first words he had uttered , I had recognized the old man by his voice . 
And now , during his strange hermit life , how much more might he not have learned ? I was torn by warring duties . 
I owed much to the Priests' Clan , by reason of my oath and membership it seemed I owed no less to Phorenice . 
Do I stand alone here ? she cried . 
Have I pampered you creatures out of all touch with gratitude ? It seems that at last I want a new chief to my guards . 
Ho ! Who will be chief of the guards of the Empress ? There was a shifting of eyes , a hesitation . 
Then a great burly form strode up from the farther end of the hall , and a perceptible shudder went up from all the others as they watched him . 
So , Tarca , you prefer to take the risks , and remain chief of the guard yourself ? she said with an angry scoff . 
Truly there did not seem to be many thrusting forward to strip you of the office . 
I shall have a fine sorting up of places in payment for this night's work . 
But for the present , Tarca , do your duty . 
The man came up , obviously timorous . 
My lord , he said quietly , I must ask you to come with me . 
Stand aside , said the old man , thrusting out the Symbol in front of him . 
I could see his eyes gather on the soldier and his brows knit with a strain of will . 
Tarca saw this too , and I thought he would have fallen , but with an effort he kept his manhood , and doggedly repeated his summons . 
I must obey the command of my mistress , and I would have you remember , my lord , that I am but a servant . 
You must come with me to the whip . 
I warn you ! cried the old man . 
Stand from out of my path , you ! It must have been with the courage of desperation that the soldier dared to use force . 
But the hand he stretched out dropped limply back to his side the moment it touched the old man's bare shoulder , as though it had been struck by some shock . 
Oh , Gods ! he cried . 
Spare me ! But Zaemon was glowering at him still . 
A woman standing near screamed as the half of the beard came off in his fingers . 
Beneath was silver whiteness over half his face . 
Zaemon had smitten him with a sudden leprosy that was past cure . 
Yet the punishment was not ended even then . 
Zaemon said no further word . 
And through the valves of the door he passed out of our sight , still wordless , still unchecked . 
I glanced up at Phorenice . 
The loveliness of her face was drawn and haggard . 
Alas , if she could only have guessed at a tenth of the terrors which the future had in its womb , Atlantis might have been saved even then . 
THE BITERS OF THE CITY WALLS Here then was the manner of my reception back in the capital of Atlantis , and some first glimpse at her new policies . 
I freely confess to my own inaction and limpness but it was all deliberate . 
The old ties of duty seemed lost , or at least merged in one another . 
Beforetime , to serve the king was to serve the Clan of the Priests , from which he had been chosen , and whose head he constituted . 
I must find out which rule promised best of Atlantis , and do my poor best to prop it into full power . 
No one inside the royal pyramid gainsaid me . 
Phorenice glowered on the feasters for a while longer in silent fury , but saying no further word and then her eyes turned on me , though softened somewhat . 
You may be an honest man , Deucalion , she said , at length , but you are a monstrous cold one . 
I wonder when you will thaw ? And here she smiled . 
I think it will be soon . 
But for now I bid you farewell . 
In the morning we will take this country by the shoulders , and see it in some new order . 
She left the banqueting hall then , Ylga following and taking precedence of my rank , I went out next , whilst all others stood and made salutation . 
But I halted by Tarca first , and put my hand on his unclean flesh . 
You are an unfortunate man , I said , but I can admire a brave soldier . 
If relief can be gained for your plague , I will use interest to procure it for you . 
The man's thanks came in a mumble from his wrecked mouth , and some of those near shuddered in affected disgust . 
I turned on them with a black brow Your charity , my lords , seems of as small account as your courage . 
I had rather be Tarca , with all his uncleanness , than any of you now as you stand . 
With which leave taking I waited coldly till they gave me my due salutation , and then walked out of the banqueting hall without offering a soul another glance . 
I took my way to the grand gate of the pyramid , called for the officer of the guard , and demanded exit . 
The man was obsequious enough , but he opened with some demur . 
My lord's attendants have not yet come up ? I have none . 
My lord knows the state of the streets ? I did twenty years back . 
I shall be able to pick my way . 
My lord must remember that the city is beleaguered , the fellow persisted . 
They prowl in bands after nightfall , and I make no question that my lord would conquer in a fight against whatever odds , but Quite right . 
I covet no street scuffle to night . 
Lend me , I pray you , a sufficiency of men . 
You will know best what are needed . 
For me , I am accustomed to a city with quiet streets . 
It was my purpose to make a tour of the walls and to find out somewhat of the disposition of these rebels . 
But the Gods saw fit to give me another education first . 
The splendour was there , vastly increased . 
Still , if it was easy to admire , it was simple also to see plain advertisement of the cost at which these great works had been reared . 
Myself , I am no pamperer of the common people . 
But at this , though I might regret it abominably , I could make no strong complaint . 
Here it was plain there was some special commotion . 
But whatever might be afoot , it was not a scene to come upon suddenly . 
The entrance gates of our great capital were designed by their ancient builders to be no less strong than the walls themselves . 
But at last the formalities had been duly complied with , and he shot back the massive bars and bolts of stone , and threw ajar one monstrous stone valve of the door . 
I have no vail to give you , I said abruptly . 
Get on with your duty . 
Open me that other door . 
With respect , my lord , it would be better that I should first announce my lord's presence . 
There is a baiting going forward in the circus , and the tigers are as yet mere savages , and no respecters of persons . 
The what ? The tigers , if my lord will permit them the name . 
has sent here to aid us keep the gate . 
Now , the mere lust for killing excites only disgust in me , but I suspected the orders of the Empress in this matter , and had a curiosity to see her scheme . 
So I stepped into the warder's lodge , and on into the galleries which commanded the circus with their arrow slits . 
But as a gazing place on a spectacle they were no less useful . 
The circus was bright lit by the moonlight , and the air which came in to me from it was acrid with the reek of blood . 
There was no sport in what was going forward as I said , it was mere killing , and the sight disgusted me . 
I am no prude about this matter . 
And it is any brave man's luxury either to help or watch a lusty fight . 
But this baiting in the circus between the gates was no fair battle like that . 
To begin with , the beasts were no fair antagonists for single men . 
In fact , twenty men armed might well have fled from them . 
When the warder said tigers , I supposed he meant the great cats of the woods . 
How they had been brought captive I could not tell . 
Hunter of beasts though I had been for all my days , I take no shame in saying that I always approached the slaying of a cave tiger with stratagem and infinite caution . 
To entrap it alive and bring it to a city on a chain was beyond my most daring schemes , and I have been accredited with more new things than one . 
But here it was in fact , and I saw in these captive beasts a new certificate for Phorenice's genius . 
The purpose of these two cave tigers was plain whilst they were in the circus , and loose , no living being could cross from one gate to the other . 
They were a new and sturdy addition to the defences of the capital . 
, and the great striped brutes were prowling about the circus with the links clanking and chinking in their wake . 
It was clear that this cruel sport had grown common to them , and they knew there were other victims yet to be added to the tally . 
He fell on his face , and after one look around him he lay resolutely still , with eyes on the ground passively awaiting his fate . 
It seemed there were niceties of cruelty in this wretched game . 
There was a sharp clank as the windlasses were manned , and the tethering chains were drawn in by perhaps a score of links . 
One of the cave tigers crouched , lashed its tail , and launched forth on a terrific spring . 
The chain tautened , the massive links sang to the strain , and the great beast gave a roar which shook the walls . 
It had missed the prone man by a hand's breadth , and the watchers behind the arrow slits shrieked forth their delight . 
The other tiger sprang also and missed , and again there were shouts of pleasure , which mingled with the bellowing voices of the beasts . 
The man lay motionless in his form . 
The great cave tigers were used , it appeared , to this disgusting sport . 
There were no more wild springs , no more stubbings at the end of the massive chains . 
They lay down on the pavement , and presently began to purr , rolling on to their sides and rubbing themselves luxuriously . 
The prisoner still lay motionless in his form . 
By slow degrees the monstrous brutes each drew to the end of its chain and began to reach at the man with out stretched forepaw . 
But still the prisoner would not stir . 
It seemed to me that they must slack out more links of one of the tigers' chains , or let the vile play linger into mere tediousness . 
But I had more to learn yet . 
The male tiger , either taught by his own devilishness , or by those brutes that were his keepers , had still another ruse in store . 
He rose to his feet and turned round , backing against the chain . 
But it did not travel far . 
It was clear that the she tiger knew this manoeuvre of her mate's . 
Those other onlookers thought it magnificent their gleeful shouts said as much . 
But for me , my gorge rose at the sight . 
Once the tigers had reached him , the man had been killed , it is true , without any unnecessary lingering . 
Even a light blow from those terrific paws would slay the strongest man living . 
But to see the two cave tigers toying with the poor body was an insult to the pride of our race . 
However , I was not there to preach the superiority of man to the beasts , and the indecency and degradation of permitting man to be unduly insulted . 
I had come to learn for myself the new balance of things in the kingdom of Atlantis , and so I stood at my place behind the arrow slit with a still face . 
And presently another scene in this ghastly play was enacted . 
They made no beginning to feast on the bodies provided for them . 
That would be for afterwards . 
In the present , the fascination of slaughter was big in them , and they had thought that it would be indulged further . 
It seemed that they knew their entertainers . 
A sickness seized me when I saw that this was a woman , but still , in view of the object I had in hand , I made no interruption . 
It was not that I had never seen women sent to death before . 
A general , who has done his fighting , must in his day have killed women equally with men yes , and seen them earn their death blow by lusty battling . 
Yet there seemed something so wanton in this cruel helpless sacrifice of a woman prisoner , that I had a struggle with myself to avoid interference . 
Still it is ever the case that the individual must be sacrificed to a policy , and so as I say , I watched on , outwardly cold and impassive . 
I watched too with a quickening heart . 
Here was no sullen submissive victim like the last . 
The watchers behind the arrow slits recognized this . 
Their wagers , and the hum of their appreciation , swept loudly round the ring of the circus . 
She clapped her back to the great stone door by which she had entered , and faced fate with glowing eye . 
Gods ! there have been times in early years when I could have plucked out sword and jumped down , and fought for her there for the sheer delight of such a battle . 
But now policy restrained me . 
Still , be it noted that , if I did not jump down , no other man there that night had sufficient manhood remaining to venture the opportunity . 
My heart glowed as I watched her . 
She picked a bone from the litter on the pavement and beat off its head by blows against the wall . 
Then with her teeth she fashioned the point to still further sharpness . 
I could see her teeth glisten white in the moonrays as she bit with them . 
The huge cave tigers , which stood as high as her head as they walked , came nearer to her in their prowlings , yet obviously neglected her . 
This was part of their accustomed scheme of torment , and the woman knew it well . 
There was something intolerable in their noiseless , ceaseless paddings over the pavement . 
I could see the prisoner's breast heave as she watched them . 
A terror such as that would have made many a victim sick and helpless . 
But this one was bolder than I had thought . 
She did not wait for a spring she made the first attack herself . 
A roar from the onlookers acknowledged the stroke . 
But the woman did not await its charge . 
And now you will suppose she gushed out prayers and promises , thinking only of safety and enlargement . 
There was nothing of this . 
With savage panting wordlessness she took fresh grip on the sharpened bone with her spare hand , and lunged with it desperately through the arrow slit . 
That was an ungrateful blow , I said . 
But for my hand you'd have slipped and be the sport of a tiger's paw this minute . 
Oh , I must kill some one , she panted , before I am killed myself . 
There will be time enough to think upon that some other day but for now you are far enough off meeting further harm . 
You are lying to me . 
You will throw me to the beasts as soon as I loose my grip . 
I know your kind you will not be robbed of your sport . 
I will go so far as to prove myself to you , said I , and called out for the warder who had tended the doors below . 
Bid those tigers be tethered on a shorter chain , I ordered , and then go yourself outside into the circus , and help this lady delicately to the ground . 
The word was passed and these things were done and I too came out into the circus and joined the woman , who stood waiting under the moonlight . 
But the others who had seen these doings were by no means suited at the change of plan . 
One of the great stone valves of the farther door opened hurriedly , and a man strode out , armed and flushed . 
By all the Gods ! he shouted . 
Who comes between me and my pastime ? I stepped quietly to the advance . 
I fear , sir , I said , that you must launch your anger against me . 
By accident I gave that woman sanctuary , and I had not heart to toss her back to your beasts . 
His fingers began to snap against his hilt . 
You have come to the wrong market here with your qualms . 
I am captain here , and my word carries , subject only to Phorenice's nod . 
But perhaps you carry a name , my man , which warrants your impertinence ? Deucalion is my poor name , I said , but I cannot expect you will know it . 
I am but newly landed here , sir , and when I left Atlantis some score of years back , a very different man to you held guard over these gates . 
He had his forehead on my feet by this time . 
I had it from the Empress this night that she will to morrow make a new sorting of this kingdom's dignities . 
Why tell me what is no news ? I wish to remind my lord of his power I wish to beg of his clemency . 
You showed your power to these poor prisoners but from what remains here to be seen , few of them have tasted much of your clemency . 
Then , if you have obeyed orders , let me be the last to chide you . 
But it is my pleasure that this woman be respited , and I wish now to question her . 
The man got to his feet again with obvious relief , though still bowing low . 
Then if my lord will honour me by sitting in my room that overlooks the outer gate , the favour will never be forgotten . 
Show the way , I said , and took the woman by the fingers , leading her gently . 
At the two ends of the circus the tigers prowled about on short chains , growling and muttering . 
He was an industrious fellow , this captain , to judge from the spoil with which his chamber was packed . 
Your designs seem somewhat of a riddle , I said . 
At first you wished to kill me from motives which you explained , and which I quite understood . 
It lay in my power next to confer some small benefit upon you , in consequence of which you are here , and not shall we say ? yonder in the circus . 
Why you should desire now to kill the only man here who can set you completely free , and beyond these walls , is a thing it would gratify me much to learn . 
I say nothing of the trifle of ingratitude . 
Gratitude and ingratitude are of little weight here . 
There is some far greater in your mind . 
She pressed a hand hard against her breasts . 
You are Deucalion , she gasped I heard you say it . 
So far , I have known no reason to feel shame for my name . 
We heard of your coming from Yucatan . 
It was we who sent the fleet to take you at the entrance to the Gulf . 
Your fleet gave us a pretty fight . 
Oh , I know , I know . 
We had our watchers on the high land who brought us the tidings . 
We had an omen even before that . 
Where we lay with our army before the walls here , we saw great birds carrying off the slain to the mountains . 
But where the fleet failed , I saw a chance where I , a woman , might Where you might succeed ? I sat me down on a pile of the captain's stuffs . 
It seemed as if here at last that I should find a solution for many things . 
You carry a name ? I asked . 
Ah , I said , and signed to her to take the clothes that I had sought out . 
Still her talk alone let me know that she was bred of none of the common people , and I made up my mind towards definite understanding . 
Nais , I said , you wish to kill me . 
At the same time I have no doubt you wish to live on yourself , if only to get credit from your people for what you have done . 
So here I will make a contract with you . 
Or the I will not be your slave . 
I do not ask you for service . 
Or else , I wished to say , I shall live so long as the High Gods wish , and do my poor best for this country . 
And for you I shall set you free to do your best also . 
So now , I pray you , speak . 
My lord plays a bold game . 
Tut , tut , I said . 
But I shall not hesitate to take the full of my bond , unless my theories are most clearly disproved to me . 
Tut , I said , you women , how you can play out the time needlessly . 
Show me sufficient cause , and you shall kill me where and how you please . 
Come , begin the accusation . 
At least I have not paraded my tyrannies in Atlantis these twenty years . 
Why , Nais , I did but land yesterday . 
You will not deny you came back from Yucatan for a purpose . 
I came back because I was sent for . 
The Empress gives no reasons for her recalls . 
She states her will and we who serve her obey without question . 
Pah , I know that old dogma . 
If you discredit my poor honesty at the outset like this , I fear we shall not get far with our unravelling . 
My lord must be indeed simple , said this strange woman scornfully , if he is ignorant of what all Atlantis knows . 
Then simple you must write me down . 
is a great personage here at home but over there in the colony we barely knew so much as her name . 
Then , if truly you do not know it , let me repeat to you the common tale . 
Phorenice has tired of her unmated life . 
I will hear no word against the Empress . 
Pah , my lord , your scruples are most decorous . 
But I did no more than repeat what the Empress had made public by proclamation . 
She is minded to take to herself a husband , and nothing short of the best is good enough for Phorenice . 
One after another has been put up in turn as favourite and been found wanting . 
Oh , I tell you , we here in Atlantis have watched her courtship with jumping hearts . 
But every ship that came from the West said that there was a stronger man than any of these in Yucatan , and at last the Empress changed the wording of her vow . 
'I'll have Deucalion for my husband , said she , 'and then we will see who can stand against my wishes . 
can do as she pleases in such matters , I said guardedly but that is beside the argument . 
I am here to know how it would be better for Atlantis that I should die ? You know you are the strongest man in the kingdom . 
It pleases you to say so . 
And Phorenice is the strongest woman . 
Why , then , if the Empress takes you in marriage , we shall be under a double tyranny . 
And her rule alone is more cruelly heavy than we can bear already . 
I pass no criticism on Phorenice's rule . 
I have not seen it . 
But I crave your mercy , Nais , on the newcomer into this kingdom . 
I am strong , say you , and therefore I am a tyrant , say you . 
Now to me this sequence is faulty . 
Who should a strong man use strength for , if not for himself ? And if for himself , why that spells tyranny . 
You will get all your heart's desires , my lord , and you will forget that many a thousand of the common people will have to pay for them . 
And this is all your accusation ? It seems to be black enough . 
I am one that has a compassion for my fellow men , my lord , and because of that compassion you see me what I am to day . 
There was a time , not long passed , when I slept as soft and ate as dainty as any in Atlantis . 
Your speech told me that much from the first . 
Then I would I had cast the speech off , too , if that is also a livery of the tyrant's class . 
But I tell you I saw all the oppression myself from the oppressor's side . 
I was high in Phorenice's favour then . 
That , too , is easy of credence . 
Ylga is the fan girl to the Empress now , and second lady in the kingdom , and those who have seen Ylga could make an easy guess at the parentage of Nais . 
We were the daughters of one birth but I do not count with either Zaemon or Ylga now . 
Ylga is the creature of Phorenice , and Phorenice would have all the people of Atlantis slaves and in chains , so that she might crush them the easier . 
It seems to me you bite at all authority . 
In fact , she said simply , I do . 
I have seen too much of it . 
And so you think a rule of no rule would be best for the country ? You have put it plainly in words for me . 
That is my creed to day . 
That is the creed of all those yonder , who sit in the camp and besiege this city . 
And we number on our side , now , all in Atlantis save those in the city and a handful on the priests' Mountain . 
A creed of desperation , if you like , Nais , but , believe me , a silly creed . 
Since man was born out of the quakings and the fevers of this earth , and picked his way amongst the cooler places , he has been dependent always on his fellow men . 
Have you ever set foot in Europe ? No. I have . 
Years back I sailed there , gathering slaves . 
What did I see ? A country without rule or order . 
Tyrants they were , to be sure , but they were the beasts . 
The men and the women were the rudest savages , knowing nothing of the arts , dressing in skins and uncleanness , harbouring in caves and the tree tops . 
The beasts roamed about where they would , and hunted them unchecked . 
Still , they fought you for their liberty ? Never once . 
They knew how disastrous was their masterless freedom . 
But , then , to argue in a circle , you will never get it . 
For to conquer , you must set up leaders , and once you have set them up , you will never pull them down again . 
Aye , she said with a sigh , there is truth in that last . 
The torch had filled the captain's room with a resinous smoke , but the flame was growing pale . 
into a pit which had been digged beneath it . 
What had happened was clear to me now , though I was powerless to do anything in hindrance . 
The great flagstone in its fall had , it appeared , crushed four of them to death , but these were little noticed or lamented . 
Twenty times we were jostled by others hastening to the attack , either from hunger for fight , or from appetite for what they could steal . 
Our Lord the Sun was on the verge of rising for His day , and all things were plainly shown . 
Before me were the monstrous walls of the capital , with the heads of its pyramids and higher buildings showing above them . 
And on the walls , the sentries walked calmly their appointed paces , or took shelter against arrows in the casemates provided for them . 
The din of fighting within the gate rose high into the air , and the heavy roaring of the cave tigers told that they too were taking their share of the melee . 
But the massive stonework of the walls hid all the actual engagement from our view , and which party was getting the upper hand we could not even guess . 
But there was no chivalry about the fellows who held me by my bonds . 
Presently , they told me , I should be put to death by torments . 
Well , this seemed to be the new custom of Atlantis , and I should have to endure it as best I could . 
The High Gods , it appeared , had no further use for my services in Atlantis , and I was not in the mood then to bite very much at their decision . 
What I had seen of the country since my return had not enamoured me very much with its new conditions . 
The little temple in which I was gaoled had been robbed and despoiled of all its furnishments . 
The people seemed to have shucked off the culture of centuries in as many months , and to have gone back for the most part to sheer brutishness . 
The majority harboured on the bare ground . 
Few owned shelter , and these were merely bowers of mud and branches . 
They fought and quarrelled amongst themselves for food , eating their meat raw , and their grain unground . 
Many who passed my vision I saw were even gnawing the soft inside of tree bark . 
The dead lay where they fell . 
The sick and the wounded found no hand to tend them . 
Great man eating birds hovered about the camp or skulked about , heavy with gorging , amongst the hovels , and no one had public spirit enough to give them battle . 
The stink of the place rose up to heaven as a foul incense inviting a pestilence . 
There was no order , no trace of strong command anywhere . 
With three hundred well disciplined troops it seemed to me that I could have sent those poor desperate hordes flying in panic to the forest . 
However , there was no very lengthy space of time granted me for thinking out the policy of this matter to any great depth . 
The attack on the gate had been delivered with suddenness the repulse was not slow . 
Of what desperate fighting took place in the galleries , and in the circus between the two sets of gates , the detail will never be told in full . 
At the first alarm the great cave tigers were set loose , and these raged impartially against keeper and foe . 
Of those that went in through the tunnel , not one in ten returned , and there were few of these but what carried a bloody wound . 
Over these two last a hubbub now arose , that seemed likely to boil over into blows . 
Every voice shouted out for them what he thought the most repulsive fate . 
Some were for burning , some for skinning , some for impaling , some for other things my flesh crept as I heard their ravenous yells . 
Never had I seen such a disorderly tumult , never such a leaderless mob . 
one of those huge war engines with which besiegers are wont to throw great stones and other missiles into the cities they sit down against . 
They ran it up just beyond bowshot of the walls , and clamped it firmly down with stakes and ropes to the earth . 
Then the rude , savage , skin clad mob stood back , and one who had appointed himself engineer knocked back the catch that held the great spring in place . 
With a whir and a twang the elastic wood flung upwards , and the bound man was shot away from its tip with the speed of a lightning flash . 
He sang through the air , spinning over and over with inconceivable rapidity , and the great crowd of rebels held their breath in silence as they watched . 
He passed high above the city wall , a tiny mannikin in the distance now , and then the trajectory of his flight began to lower . 
With a roar the crowd acknowledged the success of their device , and bellowed out insults to Phorenice , and insults to the Gods a poor frantic crowd they showed themselves . 
But for my part I saw nothing of this disgusting scene . 
I heard the bolt grate stealthily against the door of the little temple in which I was imprisoned , and was minded to give these brutish rebels somewhat of a surprise . 
Nay , I did not even despair of winning free altogether . 
I must find me a weapon from those that came up to battle , with which I could write worthy signatures , and I must attempt no standing fights . 
Gods ! but what a glow the prospect did send through me as I stood there waiting . 
A vainer man , writing history , might have said that always , before everything else , he held in mind the greater interests before the less . 
But for me I prefer to be honest , and own myself human . 
Gods ! what a fight we would have made ! But the door did not open wide to give me space for my first rush . 
It creaked gratingly outwards on its pivots , and a slim hand and a white arm slipped inside , beckoning me to quietude . 
The door creaked wider , and she came inside . 
Silence , or they will hear you , and remember . 
At present those who brought you here are killed , and unless by chance some one blunders into this robbed shrine , you will not be found . 
Then , if that is so , let me go out and walk amongst these people as one of themselves . 
But , Nais , I am not known here . 
I am merely a man in very plain and mud stained robe . 
I should be in no ways remarkable . 
A smile twitched her face . 
My lord , she said , wears no beard and his is the only clean chin in the camp . 
I joined in her laugh . 
A pest on my want of foppishness then . 
But I am forgetting somewhat . 
It comes to my mind that we still have unfinished that small discussion of ours concerning the length of my poor life . 
Have you decided to cut it off from risk of further mischief , or do you propose to give me further span ? She turned to me with a look of sharp distress . 
My lord , she said , I would have you forget that silly talk of mine . 
This last two hours I thought you were dead in real truth . 
And you were not relieved ? I felt that the only man was gone out of the world I mean , my lord , the only man who can save Atlantis . 
Your words give me a confidence . 
Then you would have me go back and become husband to Phorenice ? If there is no other way . 
I warn you I shall do that , if she still so desires it , and if it seems to me that that course will be best . 
This is no hour for private likings or dislikings . 
I know it , she said , I feel it . 
I have no heart now , save only for Atlantis . 
I have schooled myself once more to that . 
And at present I am in this lone little box of a temple . 
A minute ago , before you came , I had promised myself a pretty enough fight to signalise my changing of abode . 
There must be nothing of that . 
I will not have these poor people slaughtered unnecessarily . 
Nor do I wish to see my lord exposed to a hopeless risk . 
I am a person , she added simply , that in this camp has some respect . 
When darkness comes , I will take my lord down to the sea and a boat , and so he may come with ease to the harbour and the watergate . 
Night fell , and still we remained within the privacy of the temple . 
It was our plan that I should stay there till the camp slept , and so I should have more chance of reaching the sea without disturbance . 
Folk seated in discomfort like this are proverbially alert and cruel in the temper , and Nais frowned as she looked on the inclemency of the weather . 
A fine night , she said , and I would have sent my lord back to the city without a soul here being the wiser but in this chill , people sleep sourly . 
We must wait till the hour drugs them sounder . 
And so we waited , sitting there together on that pavement so long unkissed by worshippers , and it was little enough we said aloud . 
But there can be good companionship without sentences of talk . 
But as the hours drew on , the night began to grow less quiet . 
From the distance some one began to blow on a horn or a shell , sending forth a harsh raucous note incessantly . 
The sound came nearer , as we could tell from its growing loudness , and the voices of those by the fires made themselves heard , railing at the blower for his disturbance . 
What he was declaiming upon we could not hear , and our curiosity on the matter was not keen . 
Given that all who did not sleep went to weary themselves with this fellow , as Nais whispered , it would be simple for me to make an exit in the opposite direction . 
But here we were reckoning without the inevitable busybody . 
A dozen pairs of feet splashing through the wet came up to the side of the little temple , and cried loudly that Nais should join the audience . 
Come out with me , she whispered , and keep distant from the light of the fires . 
But how explain my being here ? There is no reason to explain anything , she said bitterly . 
They will take you for my lover . 
There is nothing remarkable in that it is the mode here . 
A smooth chin pleases me better . 
So it does me , I heard her murmur as she leaned her weight on the stone which hung in the doorway , and pushed it ajar your chin . 
The ragged men outside there were women with them also did not wait to watch me very closely . 
and they stepped off into the darkness , just turning from time to time to make sure we followed . 
So we held on through the darkness , and presently came within earshot . 
Still it was little enough of the preacher's words we could make out at first . 
Who are your chiefs ? came the question at the end of a fervid harangue , and immediately all further rational talk was drowned in uproar . 
We have no chiefs , the people shouted , we are done with chiefs we are all equal here . 
Take away your silly magic . 
You may kill us with magic if you choose , but rule us you shall not . 
Nor shall the other priests rule . 
We are done with rulers . 
The press had brought us closer and closer to the man who stood on the war engine . 
We saw him to be old , with white hair that tumbled on his shoulders , and a long white beard , untrimmed and uncurled . 
Save for a wisp of rag about the loins , his body was unclothed , and glistened in the wet . 
But in his hand he held that which marked his caste . 
With it he pointed his sentences , and at times he whirled it about bathing his wet , naked body in a halo of light . 
It was the Symbol of our Lord the Sun , a credential no one could forge , and one on which no civilised man would cast a doubt . 
You may kill us with your magic , if you choose , they screamed at him . 
But stubbornly they refused to come back to their old allegiance . 
We have suffered too many things these later years , they cried . 
We are done with rulers now for always . 
But for myself I saw the old man with a different emotion . 
The High Gods who keep the tether of our lives hide Their secrets well , but I did not think it impious to be sure that mine was very near the cutting then . 
The beautiful woman saw this too . 
Still I could not help letting my thoughts travel with a grim gloating over the fine mound of dead I should build before these ragged , unskilled rebels pulled me down . 
And it was inevitable this should be so . 
The theme he preached was no new one . 
They are no self seekers their aim was always to further the interest of Atlantis , and so do honour to the kingdom on which the High Gods had set their special favour . 
Under the Priestly Clan , Atlantis had reached the pinnacle of human prosperity and happiness . 
But , cried the old man , waving the Symbol till his wet body glistened in a halo of light , the people grew fat and careless with their easy life . 
should see a woman child by the wayside , and take it for adoption . 
Yet , even as they set up , so can they throw down , and those that shall debase Phorenice are even now appointed . 
The old rule is to be re established but not till you who have sinned are sufficiently chastened to cry to it for relief . 
He waved the mysterious glowing Symbol before him . 
See , he cried in his high old quavering voice , you know the unspeakable Power of which that is the sign , and for which I am the mouthpiece . 
It is for you to make decision now . 
Promptly a young man , skin clad and carrying his weapon , elbowed up through the press of listeners , and jumped on to the platform beside him . 
Hear me , brethren ! he bellowed , in his strong young voice . 
We are done with tyrants . 
Death may come , and we all of us here have shown how little we fear it . 
But own rulers again we will not , and that is our final say . 
I can kill you , but I will not , said Zaemon . 
You have said your silliness . 
Now go you to the ground again . 
We have free speech here . 
I will not go till I choose . 
Aye , but you will , said the old man , and turned on him with a sudden tightening of the brows . 
The old man stooped and glowered at them in fury . 
Come in humility , and I take it upon myself to declare that you will receive fitting pardon and relief . 
Remain stubborn , and the scourge , Phorenice , may torment you into annihilation before she in turn is made to answer for the evil she has put upon the land . 
There is the choice for you to pick at . 
The turmoil of voices rose again into the wetness of the night , and weapons were upraised menacingly . 
But Nais clutched at my hand , and implored me for caution . 
Oh , be silent , my lord , she whispered back , or they will tear you in pieces . 
They are on fire for mischief now . 
Yet a few hours back you were for killing me yourself , I could not help reminding her . 
She turned on me with a hot look . 
A woman can change her mind , my lord . 
But it becomes you little to remind her of her fickleness . 
A man in the press beside me wrenched round with an effort , and stared at me searchingly through the darkness . 
Who are you , friend , that you should cut a beard instead of curling it ? I can see no wound on your face . 
I answered him civilly enough that , with freedom for a watchword , the fashion of my chin was a matter of mere private concern . 
But all this time the lean preacher from the mountains was sending forth his angry anathemas , and still holding the strained attention of the people . 
made response in the words and in the places where the old ritual enjoins . 
It was weird enough sight , that time honoured service of adoration , forced upon these wild people after so long a period of irreligion . 
WHO STILLED THE BURNING OF THE MOUNTAINS , AND MADE COOL PLACES ON THE EARTH FOR US TO LIVE ! PRAISE TO THE MOST HIGH GODS . 
WHO GAVE US MASTERY OVER THE LESSER BEASTS AND SKILL OF TEN TIMES TO PREVAIL ! PRAISE TO THE MOST HIGH GODS . 
WHO GAVE US MASTERY OVER THE LESSER BEASTS AND SKILL OF TEN TIMES TO PREVAIL ! PRAISE TO THE MOST HIGH GODS . 
It thrilled one to hear their earnestness it sorrowed one to know that they would yet be obdurate and not return to their old allegiance . 
For this is the way with these common people they will work up an enthusiasm one minute , and an hour later it will have fled away and left them cold and empty . 
But Zaemon made no further calls upon their loyalty . 
He finished the prescribed form of sentences , and stepped down off the platform of the war engine with the Symbol of our Lord the Sun thrust out resolutely before him . 
And here came the turning point of my life . 
Well , I should lose that final fight I had promised myself , and that mound of slain for my funeral bed . 
It was clear that Zaemon was the mouthpiece of the Priests' Clan , duly appointed and I also was a priest . 
That I had regret for this mode of cutting off , I will not deny . 
No man who has practised the game of arms could abandon the promise of such a gorgeous final battle without a qualm of longing . 
The crowd fell back , being driven away by the ineffable force of the Symbol , leaving us alone in the middle of a ring . 
Even Nais , though she was a priest's daughter , was ignorant of the Mysteries , and could not withstand its force . 
And so we two men stood there alone together , with the glow of the Symbol bathing us , and lighting up the sea of ravenous faces that watched . 
The people were quick to put their natural explanation on the scene . 
A spy ! they began to roar out . 
A spy ! Zaemon salutes him as a Priest ! Zaemon faced round on them with a queer look on his grim old face . 
Aye , he said , this is a Priest . 
If I give you his name , you might have further interest . 
This is the Lord Deucalion . 
The word was picked up and yelled amongst them with a thousand emotions . 
So the end was not to be yet . 
The old man faced me and spoke in the sacred tongue , which the common people do not know . 
My brother , he said , which have you come to serve , Deucalion or Atlantis ? Words are a poor thing to answer a question like that . 
You will know all of my record . 
We know your doings in the past , brother , and they have found approval . 
You have governed well , and you have lived austerely . 
You set up Atlantis for a mistress , and served her well but then , you have had no Phorenice to tempt you into change and fickleness . 
You can send me where I shall see her no more , if you think me frail . 
Yes , and lose your usefulness . 
No , brother , you are the last hope which this poor land has remaining . 
All other human means that have been tried against Phorenice have failed . 
You have returned from overseas for the final duel . 
You are the strongest man we have , and you are our final champion . 
It seems that you would save time and pains if you threw me to these wolves of rebels , and let them end me here and now . 
The old man frowned on me angrily . 
I am bidding you do your duty . 
What reason have you for wishing to evade it ? I have in my memory the words you spoke in the pyramid , when you came in amongst the banqueters . 
It seems that you foresee my defeat . 
I cannot tell what she may force us to do . 
I spoke then only what it was revealed to me must happen . 
Perhaps when matters have reached that pass , she will repent and submit . 
But in the meanwhile , before we use the more desperate weapons of the Gods , it is fitting that we should expend all human power remaining to us . 
And so you must go , my brother , and play your part to the utmost . 
You shall be at Phorenice's side again by the next dawn . 
has the weight of arm necessary to prolong her tyrannies . 
You are a Priest , brother , and you are a man of convincing tongue . 
It will be your part to make her stubborn mind see the invincible power that can be loosed against her , to point out to her the utter hopelessness of prevailing against it . 
If it is ordered , I will do these things . 
But there is little enough chance of success . 
I have seen Phorenice , and can gauge her will . 
There will be no turning her once she has made a decision . 
Others have tried you have tried yourself all have failed . 
Words that were wasted on a maiden may go home to a wife . 
You have been brought here to be her husband . 
Well , take your place . 
The order came to me with a pang . 
But the matters of the last two days had put things in a different shape . 
I had seen two other women who had strangely attracted me , and one of these had stirred within me a tumult such as I had never felt before amongst my economies . 
To lead Phorenice in marriage would mean a severance from this other woman eternally , and I ached as I thought of it . 
But though these thoughts floated through my system and gave me harsh wrenches of pain , I did not thrust my puny likings before the command of the council of the Priests . 
I bowed before Zaemon , and put his hand to my forehead . 
It is an order , I said . 
If our Lord the Sun gives me life , I will obey . 
Then let us begone from this place , said Zaemon , and took me by the arm and waved a way for us with the Symbol . 
The dense ranks of the crowd opened , and we walked away between them scathless . 
Fiercely though they lusted for my life , brimming with hate though they made their cries , no man dared to rush in and raise a hand against me . 
The rain still fell , and in the light of the camp fires as we passed them , the wet gleamed on the old man's wasted body . 
And far before us through the darkness loomed the vast bulk of the Sacred Mountain , with the ring of eternal fires encincturing its crest . 
I sighed as I thought of the old peaceful days I had spent in its temple and groves . 
But there was to be no more of that studious leisure now . 
There was work to be done , work for Atlantis which did not brook delay . 
Long years had passed since it carried lava streams , but the air in it was still warm and sulphurous , and there was no inducement to linger in transit . 
And here the vow of the Seven hampered my progress for it is ordained that under no circumstances , whatever the stress , shall egress be made from this passage before mortal eye . 
One branch after another did I try , but always found loiterers near the exits . 
I had hoped to make my emergence by that path which came inside the royal pyramid . 
But there was no chance of coming up unobserved here the place was humming like a hive . 
And so , too , with each of the five next outlets that I visited . 
The city was agog with some strange excitement . 
But I came at last to a temple of one of the lesser Gods , and stood behind the image for a while making observation . 
A broom lay unnoticed on one of the pews , and with this I soon disguised all route of footmark , and took my way to the temple door . 
It was shut , and priest though I was , the secret of its opening was beyond me . 
Here was a pretty pass . 
It would have surprised me little to have found even these deserted . 
I gave the call , and presently it was opened to me . 
His name was Ro , and I remembered him well . 
We had passed through the sacred college together , and always he had been known as the dullard . 
But it was not pleasant to think that a fool should remain true where cleverer men abandoned the old beliefs . 
Ro did before me the greater obeisance . 
He wore his beard curled in the prevailing fashion , but it was badly done . 
His clothing was ill fitting and unbrushed . 
He always had been a slovenly fellow . 
The temple door is shut , he said , and I only have the secret of its opening . 
My lord comes here , therefore , by the secret way , and as one of the Seven . 
I am my lord's servant . 
Then I ask this small service of you . 
Tell me , what stirs the city ? That impious Phorenice has declared herself Goddess , and declares that she will light the sacrifice with her own divine fire . 
She will do it , too . 
But I wish the flames may burn her when she calls them down . 
This new Empress is the bane of our Clan , Deucalion , these latter days . 
Oh , I tell you , the cult of the true Gods is well nigh oozed quite out of the land . 
My brother , it comes to my mind that the Priests of our Clan have been limp in their service to let these things come to pass . 
I suppose we have done our best . 
At least , we did as we were taught . 
Come into the dwelling here . 
Look there on my bed . 
I saw the shape of a man , untidily swathed in reddened bandages . 
This is all that is left of the poor priest that was my immediate superior in this cure . 
It was his turn yesterday to celebrate the weekly sacrifice to our Lord the Sun with the circle of His great stones . 
Faugh ! Deucalion , you should have seen how he was mangled when they brought him back to me here . 
An arrow shot in the eye , or a long shafted spear receives them best . 
The great bird swooped down , settling on the wood pyre , and attacked the sacrifice with beak and talon . 
And then , when the bird was glutted , it flew away again to the mountains . 
But a few began to shout that Phorenice stood for all the Gods now in Atlantis , and that cry was taken up till the stones of the great circle rang with it . 
The Empress can be hard enough to those who neglect to give her adulation . 
The Empress is Empress , I said formally , and her name carries respect . 
It is not for us to question her doings . 
I am a priest , said Ro , and I speak as I have been taught , and defend the Faith as I have been commanded . 
Whether there is a Faith any longer , I am beginning to doubt . 
But , anyway , it yields a poor enough livelihood nowadays . 
And I do not think that the affair of that sacrifice is likely to put new enthusiasm into our cold votaries . 
When did it happen ? Twenty hours ago . 
To day Phorenice conducts the sacrifice herself . 
That has caused the stir you spoke about . 
The city is in the throes of getting ready one of her pageants . 
Then I must ask you to open the temple doors and give me passage . 
I must go and see this thing for myself . 
It is not for me to offer advice to one of the Seven , said Ro doubtfully . 
But they say that the Empress is not overpleased at your absence , he mumbled . 
I should not like harm to come in your way , Deucalion , he said aloud . 
And now I must be your debtor for a passage out through the doors . 
Plagues ! man , it is no use your holding out your hand to me . 
I do not own a coin in all the world . 
He mumbled something about force of habit as he led the way down towards the door , and I responded tartly enough about the unpleasantness of his begging customs . 
If it were not for your sort and your customs , the Priests' Clan would not be facing this crisis to day . 
One must live , he grumbled , as he pressed his levers , and the massive stone in the doorway swung ajar . 
If you had been a more capable man , I might have seen the necessity , said I , and passed into the open and left him . 
I could never bring myself to like Ro . 
A motley crowd filled the street which ran past the front of this obscure temple , and all were hurrying one way . 
on the deeper matters which lay beneath the bare spectacle . 
They had grown callous , these townsfolk , to the battering of rams , and the flight of fire darts , and the other emotions of a bombardment . 
Their nerves , their hunger , their desperation , were strung to such a pitch that little short of an actual storm could stir them into new excitement over the siege . 
The naked carried arms in the hopes of meeting some one whom they could overcome and rob those that had a possession walked ready to do a battle for its ownership . 
It was a grim commentary on the success of Phorenice's rule . 
The crowd merged me into their ranks without question , and with them I pressed forward down the winding streets , once so clean and trim , now so foul and mud strewn . 
Men and women had died of hunger in these streets these latter years , and rotted where they lay , and we trod their bones underfoot as we walked . 
Yet rising out of this squalor and this misery were great pyramids and palaces , the like of which for splendour and magnificence had never been seen before . 
It was a jarring admixture . 
It is the fashion amongst us moderns not to take these old tales in a too literal sense , but for myself , this one satisfies me . 
By our wits we can lift blocks weighing six hundred men , and set them as the capstones of our pyramids . 
There were nine and forty of the stones , alternating with spaces , and set in an accurate circle , and across the tops of them other stones were set , equally huge . 
The stones were undressed and rugged but the huge massiveness of them impressed the eye more than all the temples and daintily tooled pyramids of our wondrous city . 
The crowd which bore me on came to a standstill before the circle of stones . 
For long enough we stood there , our Lord the Sun burning high and fiercely from the clear blue sky above our heads . 
The din of the rebels' attack upon the walls came to us clearly , even above the gabble of the multitude , but no one gave attention to it . 
Excitement about what was to befall in the circle mastered every other emotion . 
But life was cheap in the city of Atlantis now , and no one heeded the fallen . 
Many a thousand poor starving wretches sighed when they saw the wanton splendour of it . 
But these lords and these courtiers of this new Atlantis had no concern beyond their own bellies and their own backs , except for their one alien regard their simpering affection for Phorenice . 
I think , though , their loyalty for the Empress was real enough , and it was not to be wondered at , since everything they had came from her lavish hands . 
She acknowledged it with a smile of thanks . 
Her cheeks were a little flushed , her movements quick , her manner high strung , as all well might be , seeing the horrible sacrilege she had in mind . 
Ylga , the fan girl , alone of all that vast multitude round the Sun temple contained herself with her formal paces and duties . 
She looked pained and troubled . 
It was plain to see , even from the distance where I stood , that she carried a heavy heart under the jewels of her robe . 
It was fitting , too , that this should be so . 
She could not forget her upbringing now at this supreme moment when the highest of the old Gods was to be formally defied . 
she was not a little dreadful of the consequences . 
But the Empress had no eye for one sad look amongst all that sea of glowing faces . 
Boldly and proudly she strode out into the circle , as though she had been the duly appointed priest for the sacrifice . 
And after her came a knot of men , dressed as priests , and bearing the victim . 
Some of these were creatures of her own , and it was easy to forgive mere ignorant laymen , won over by the glamour of Phorenice's presence . 
The wood had already been stacked on the altar stone in the due form required by the ancient symbolism , and the Empress stood aside whilst those who followed did what was needful . 
As they opened out , I saw that the victim was one of the small , cloven hoofed horses that roam the plains a most acceptable sacrifice . 
They bound its feet with metal gyves , and put it on the pyre , where , for a while , it lay neighing . 
Then they stepped aside , and left it living . 
The false priests went back to the farther side of the circle , and Phorenice stood alone before the altar . 
She raised her glance aloft , and all other eyes followed it . 
The heaven was clear as the deep sea , a gorgeous blue . 
And in the ball of mist were little quick stabs and splashes of noiseless flame . 
, and of the direct aid of the most High Gods , which had enabled her to work so many marvels . 
Give this people a sign that I am indeed a child of the Gods and no frail mortal . 
Here is sacrifice unlit , where mortal priests with their puny fires had weekly , since the foundation of this land , sent savoury smoke towards the sky . 
She broke off and strained towards the sky . 
The cloven hoofed horse gave one shrill neigh , and one convulsion , and fell back dead . 
Flames crackled out from the wood pile , and the air became rich with the smell of burning flesh . 
Phorenice , Goddess ! they cried . 
Phorenice , Goddess of all Atlantis ! But for myself I did not kneel . 
I would have no part in this apostasy , so I stood there awaiting fate . 
A WOOING A murmur quickly sprang up round me , which grew into shouts . 
Kneel , one whispered , kneel , sir , or you will be seen . 
But presently the word Deucalion began to be bandied about , and there came a moderation in the zeal of these enthusiasts . 
I did not prostrate myself . 
At the prescribed distance I made the salutation which she herself had ordered when she made me her chief minister , and then hailed her with formal decorum as Empress . 
Deucalion , man of ice , she retorted . 
I still adhere to the old Gods ! I was not referring to that , said she , and looked at me with a sidelong smile . 
But here Ylga came up to us with a face that was white , and a hand that shook , and made supplication for my life . 
If he will not leave the old Gods yet , she pleaded , surely you will pardon him ? He is a strong man , and does not become a convert easily . 
You may change him later . 
You slut , she cried out . 
Ay , and I'll do more . 
I'll serve you as Zaemon served my captain , Tarca . 
My lord , she said , I am like a young bird in the nest that has suddenly found its wings . 
Wings have so many uses that I am curious to try them all . 
May each new flight they take be for the good of Atlantis . 
Oh , she said , with an eye flash , I know what you have most at heart . 
But we will go back to the pyramid , and talk this out at more leisure . 
I pray you now , my lord , conduct me back to my riding beast . 
It appeared then that I was to be condoned for not offering her worship , and so putting public question on her deification . 
So I led this lovely sinful woman back to the huge red mammoth which stood there tamely in waiting , and the smell of the sacrifice came after us as we walked . 
She mounted the stair to the golden castle on the shaggy beast's back , and bade me mount also and take seat beside her . 
But the place of the fan girl behind was empty , and what we said as we rode back through the streets there was none to overhear . 
You seem to have an unusual kindliness for this rebel Nais , said Phorenice . 
She showed herself to me as more clever and thoughtful than the common herd . 
Ay , she answered , with a sigh that I think was real enough in its way , an Empress loses much that meaner woman gets as her common due . 
In what particular ? She misses the honest wooing of her equals . 
If you set up for a Goddess I said . 
Pah ! I wish to be no Goddess to you , Deucalion . 
That was for the common people it gives me more power with them it helps my schemes . 
All you Seven higher priests know that trick of calling down the fire , and it pleased me to filch it . 
Can you not be generous , and admit that a woman may be as clever in finding out these natural laws as your musty elder priests ? Remains that you are Empress . 
Just think that there is a woman seated beside you on this cushion , Deucalion , and look upon her , and say what words come first to your lips . 
Have done with ceremonies , and have done with statecraft . 
Do you wish to wait on as you are till all your manhood withers ? It is well not to hurry unduly in these matters I am with you there . 
But I remembered the command that had been laid upon me , and forced a smile . 
I may have been fastidious , I said , but I do not regret waiting this long . 
Nor I. But I have played my life as a maid , time enough . 
I am a woman , ripe , and full blooded , and the day has come when I should be more than what I have been . 
I let my hand clench on hers . 
Take me to husband then , and I will be a good man to you . 
But , as I am bidden speak to Phorenice the woman now , and not to the Empress , I offer fair warning that I will be no puppet . 
She looked at me sidelong . 
I have been master so long that I think it will come as enjoyment to be mastered sometimes . 
No , Deucalion , I promise that you shall be no puppet . 
Indeed , it would take a lusty lung to do the piping if you were to dance against your will . 
Petulantly she drew her hand away from mine . 
Am I to do all the wooing ? Is there no thrill of love under all your ice ? In truth , I do not know what love may be . 
I have had little enough speech with women all these busy years . 
We were a pair , then , when you landed , though I have heard sighs and protestations from every man that carries a beard in all Atlantis . 
Some of them tickled my fancy for the day , but none of them have moved me deeper . 
No , I also have not learned what this love may be from my own personal feelings . 
But , sir , I think that you will teach me soon , if you go on with your coldness . 
From what I have seen , love is for the poor , and the weak , and for those of flighty emotions . 
Ah ! How I could revel in it ! How I could respond if he caught my whim ! She laughed . 
But I should lead him a sad life of it if my liking were not so strong as his . 
We are as we are made , and we cannot change our inwards which move us . 
She looked at me with a sullen glance . 
If I do not change yours , my Deucalion , there will be more trouble brewed for this poor Atlantis that you set such store upon . 
There will be ill doings in this coming household of ours if my love grows for you , and yours remains still unborn . 
I believe she would have had me fondle her there in the golden castle on the mammoth's shabby back , before the city streets packed with curious people . 
She had little enough appetite for privacy at any time . 
But for the life of me I could not do it . 
The Gods know I was earnest enough about my task , and They know also how it repelled me . 
But I was a true priest that day , and I had put away all personal liking to carry out the commands which the Council had laid upon me . 
If I had known how to set about it , I would have fallen in with her mood . 
But where any of those shallow bedizened triflers about the court would have been glibly in his element , I stuck for lack of a dozen words . 
There was no help for it but to leave all , save what I actually felt , unsaid . 
Diplomacy I was trained in , and on most matters I had a glib enough tongue . 
She had been nurtured during these years of her rule on a pap of these silly protestations , and could weigh their value with an expert's exactness . 
Nor was it a case where honest confession would have served my purpose better . 
If I had put my position to her in plain words , it would have made relations worse . 
And so perforce I had to hold my tongue , and submit to be considered a clown . 
I had always heard , she said , that you colonists in Yucatan were far ahead of those in Egypt in all the arts and graces . 
But you , sir , do small credit to your vice royalty . 
Why , I have had gentry from the Nile come here , and you might almost think they had never left their native shores . 
They must have made great strides this last twenty years , then . 
When last I was sent to Egypt to report , the blacks were clearly masters of the land , and our people lived there only on sufferance . 
Their pyramids were puny , and their cities nothing more than forts . 
Oh , she said mockingly , they are mere exiles still , but they remember their manners . 
My poor face seemed to please them , at least they all went into raptures over it . 
And for ten pleasant words , one of them cut off his own right hand . 
We made the bargain , my Egyptian gallant and I , and the hand lies dried on some shelf in my apartment to day as a pleasant memento . 
But here , by a lucky chance for me , an incident occurred which saved me from further baiting . 
The rebels outside the walls were conducting their day's attack with vigour and some intelligence . 
Still there had been nothing to ruffle the nerves of any one at all used to the haps of warfare , or in any way to hinder our courtship . 
But presently , it seems , they stopped hurling stones from their war engines , and took to loading them with carcases of wood lined with the throwing fire . 
There was no putting out these fires . 
When the first blue whiff of smoke came to us down the windings of the street , the huge red beast hoisted its trunk , and began to sway its head uneasily . 
When the smoke drifts grew more dense , and here and there a tongue of flame showed pale beneath the sunshine , it stopped abruptly and began to trumpet . 
But the beast's terror at the fire , which was native to its constitution , mastered all its new bought habits of obedience . 
Phorenice's brow began to darken as the great beast grew more restive , and she shook her red curls viciously . 
Some one shall lose a head for this blundering , said she . 
Here , I said , quick . 
Let me lower you to the ground . 
She turned on me with a gleam . 
Are you afraid for my neck , then , Deucalion ? I have no mind to be bereaved before I have tasted my wedded life . 
Pish ! There is little enough of danger . 
I will stay and ride it out . 
I am not one of your nervous women , sir . 
But go you , if you please . 
There is little enough chance of that now . 
Blood flowed from the mammoth's neck where the spikes of the collar tore it , and with each drop , so did the tameness seem to ooze out from it also . 
Many must have been trodden under foot , many killed by its murderous trunk , but only their cries came to us . 
We had outstripped the taint of smoke , and the original cause of fear , but the beast seemed to have forgotten everything in its mad panic . 
It held furiously on with enormous strides , carrying its trunk aloft , and deafening us with its screams and trumpetings . 
We left behind us quickly all those who had trod in that glittering pageant , and we were carried helplessly on through the wards of the city . 
The beast was utterly beyond all control . 
So great was its pace that there was no alternative but to try and cling on to the castle . 
Up there we were beyond its reach . 
To have leapt off , even if we had avoided having brains dashed out or limbs smashed by the fall , would have been to put ourselves at once at a frightful disadvantage . 
, and we should have been trampled into a pulp in a dozen seconds . 
The thought came to me that here was the High God's answer to Phorenice's sacrilege . 
The mammoth was appointed to carry out Their vengeance by dashing her to pieces , and I , their priest , was to be human witness that justice had been done . 
There was no guiding the brute in its insanity of madness it doubled many times upon its course , the windings of the streets confusing it . 
And I braced myself to withstand the shock , and took fresh grip upon the woman who lay against my breast . 
But at this point the pace was very quickly slackened . 
Madly it struggled , wildly it screamed and trumpeted . 
Still there , of course , we were safe , and I was pleased enough to be rid of the bumpings . 
Phorenice laughed as she swam . 
You handle yourself like a sore man , Deucalion . 
I owe you something for lending me the cushion of your body . 
By my face ! There's more of the gallant about you when it comes to the test than one would guess to hear you talk . 
How did you like the ride , sir ? I warrant it came to you as a new experience . 
Pish , man ! You'll never be a courtier . 
You should have sworn that with me in your arms you could have wished the bumping had gone on for ever . 
Ho , the boat there ! Hold your arrows . 
Deucalion , hail me those fools in that boat . 
Tell them that , if they hurt so much as a hair of my mammoth , I'll kill them all by torture . 
Pho ! I could not feel myself to be Phorenice , if I had no fine , red , shaggy mammoth to take me out for my rides . 
The peril may pass , said she . 
It's nothing mortal that will ever kill me . 
But I have spoiled my pretty clothes , and shed a jewel or two , and that's annoying enough as you say , good man . 
The silly fellow repeated a wish that he might be blinded before the Empress was ever put to such discomfort again . 
But it seemed she could be cloyed with flattery . 
If you are tired of your eyes , said she , let me tell you that you have gone the way to have them plucked out from their sockets . 
Kill my mammoth , would you , because he has shown himself a trifle frolicsome ? You and your sort want more education , my man . 
The port captain abased himself before her . 
I am an ignorant fellow , said he , and heaven was robbed of its brightest ornament when Phorenice came down to Atlantis . 
But if reparation is permitted me , I have two prisoners in the cabin of the boat here who shall be sacrificed to the mammoth forthwith . 
Doubtless it would please him to make sport with them , and spill out the last lees of his rage upon their bodies . 
Prisoners you've got , have you ? How taken ? Under cover of last night they were trying to pass in between the two forts which guard the harbour mouth . 
But their boat fouled the chain , and by the light of the torches the sentries spied them . 
They were caught with ropes , and put in a dungeon . 
There is an order not to abuse prisoners before they have been brought before a judgment ? It was my order . 
Did these prisoners offer to buy their lives with news ? The man has not spoken . 
Indeed , I think he got his death wound in being taken . 
The woman fought like a cat also , so they said in the fort , but she was caught without hurt . 
She says she has got nothing that would be of use to tell . 
She says she has tired of living like a savage outside the city , and moreover that , inside , there is a man for whose nearness she craves most mightily . 
Is this a romance we have swum to ? You see what affectionate creatures we women are , Deucalion . 
The galley was brought up against the royal quay and made fast to its golden rings . 
I handed the Empress ashore , but she turned again and faced the boat , her garments still yielding up a slender drip of water . 
Produce your woman prisoner , master captain , and let us see whether she is a runaway wife , or a lovesick girl mad after her sweetheart . 
Then I will deliver judgment on her , and as like as not will surprise you all with my clemency . 
I am in a mood for tender romance to day . 
The port captain went into the little hutch of a cabin with a white face . 
It was plain that Phorenice's pleasantries scared him . 
The man appears to be dead , Your Majesty . 
I see that his wounds Bring out the woman , you fool . 
Keep your carrion where it is . 
It was clear , too , that the Empress recognised her also . 
Indeed , she made no secret about the matter , addressing her by name , and mockingly making inquiries about the menage of the rebels , and the success of the prisoner's amours . 
Come , now , we are willing to overlook much of your faults , if you will give us a reasonable chance . 
Point me out your man , and if he is a proper fellow , I will see that he weds you honestly . 
Yes , and I will do more for you , Nais , since this day brings me to a husband . 
Seeing that all your estate is confiscate as a penalty for your late rebellion , I will charge myself with your dowry , and give it back to you . 
So come , name me the man . 
The girl looked at her with a sullen brow . 
I spoke a lie , she said there is no man . 
I tried myself to give her advocacy . 
The lady doubtless spoke what came to her lips . 
When a woman is in the grip of a rude soldiery , any excuse which can save her for the moment must serve . 
For myself , I should think it like enough that she would confess to having come back to her old allegiance , if she were asked . 
Sir , said the Empress , keep your peace . 
Any interest you may show in this matter will go far to offend me . 
But you must meet me halfway . 
You must give an excuse for leniency . 
Point me out the man you would wed , and he shall be your husband to morrow . 
Then name me one at random . 
Why , my pretty Nais , not ten months ago there were a score who would have leaped at the chance of having you for a wife . 
Drop your coyness , girl , and name me one of those . 
I warrant you that I will be your ambassadress and will put the matter to him with such delicacy that he will not make you blush by refusal . 
The prisoner moistened her lips . 
I am a maiden , and I have a maiden's modesty . 
I will die as you choose , but I will not do this indecency . 
No , come to think of it , you liked a tender glance and a pretty phrase as well as any when you were fan girl . 
You have grown wild and shy , amongst these savage rebels , but I will not punish you for that . 
Let me call your favourites to memory now . 
And then there is Tatho , but Tatho is away overseas . 
Eron , too , you liked once , but be lost an arm in fighting t'other day , and I would not marry you to less than a whole man . 
Well , you shall have Rota . 
He shall lead you to wife before this hour to morrow . 
Again the prisoner moistened her lips . 
I will not have Rota , and spare me the others . 
I know why you mock me , Phorenice . 
Then there are three of us here who share one knowledge . 
She turned her eyes upon me . 
Do you wish still to carry out the match ? I looked once at Nais , and then I looked steadily back to Phorenice . 
The command given by the mouth of Zaemon from the High Council of the Sacred Mountain had to outweigh all else , and I answered that such was my desire . 
Then , said she , glowering at me with her eyes , you shall build me up the pretty body of Nais beneath a throne of granite as a wedding gift . 
And you shall do it too with your own proper hands , my Deucalion , whilst I watch your devotion . 
And to Nais she turned with a cruel smile . 
You lied to me , my girl , and you spoke truth to the soldiers in the harbour forts . 
There is a man here in the city you came after , and he is the one man you may not have . 
Because you know me well , and my methods very thoroughly , your love for him must be very deep , or you would not have come . 
And so , being here , you shall be put beyond mischief's reach . 
I am not one of those who see luxury in fostering rivals . 
You came for attention at the hands of Deucalion . 
By my face ! you shall have it . 
I will watch myself whilst he builds you up living . 
And she on her part patted my arm , and fresh waves of feeling welled up from the depths of her wondrous eyes . 
For myself , I said no further word to Nais , and refrained even from giving her a glance of farewell . 
But a small sop like this was no meal for Phorenice , and she gave the port captain strict orders for the guarding of his prisoner before she left him . 
The fellow was clearly ruined . 
in partnership with other merchants . 
These had pleased Phorenice's eye , and so she had taken all and disposed them on her person . 
Are they not pretty ? said she , showing them to me . 
See how they flash under the sun . 
I am quite glad now , Deucalion , that the mammoth gave us that furious ride and that spill , since it has brought me such a bonny present . 
You may tell the fellow here that some day when he has earned some more , I will come and be his guest again . 
Ah ! They have brought us litters , I see . 
Well , send one away and do you share mine with me , sir . 
We must play at being lovers to day , even if love is a matter which will come to us both with more certainty to morrow . 
No do not order more bearers . 
My own slaves will carry us handily enough . 
I am glad you are not one of your gross , overfed men , Deucalion . 
I am small and slim myself , and I do not want to be husbanded by a man who will overshadow me . 
Back to the royal pyramid ? I asked . 
No , nor to the walls . 
I neither wish to fight nor to sit as Empress to day , sir . 
But as whatever there was in the matter must be common knowledge to the Empress , I did not bring it to her memory then . 
But in those old days trade roared with lusty life , and was ever growing wider and more heavy . 
Your merchant then was a portly man and gave generously to the Gods . 
But now all the world seemed to be in arms , and moreover trade was vulgar . 
Of the smaller merchants who had no substance laid by , taxes and the constant bickerings of war had wellnigh ground them into starvation . 
Besides , with the country in constant uproar , there were few markets left for most merchandise , nor was there aught made now which could be carried abroad . 
There was no man in all Atlantis who would hold so much as one more slave as a gift . 
But though I was grieved at this falling away , all schemes for remedy would be for afterwards . 
It would only make ill worse to speak of it as we rode together in the litter . 
I was growing to know Phorenice's moods enough for that . 
Still , I think that she too had studied mine , and did her best to interest me between her bursts of trifling . 
We went out to where the westernmost harbour wall joins the land , and there the panting bearers set us down . 
But here this field reared upstart of an Empress had stumbled upon the trick as though it had been written in a book . 
She patted my arm laughingly as I stared curiously round the place . 
I tell all others in Atlantis that only the Gods have this secret , said she , and that They gave it to me as one of themselves . 
But I am no Goddess to you , am I , Deucalion ? And , by my face ! I have no other explanation of how this plan was invented . 
We'll suppose I must have dreamed it . 
Look ! The sea water sluices in through that culvert , and passes over these rough metal plates set in the floor , and then flows out again yonder in its natural course . 
You see the yellow metal caught in the ridges of the plates ? That is gold . 
And my fellows here melt it with fire into bars , and take it to my smith's in the city . 
I suppose it is that . 
But I am letting you see how it is done . 
Just have the head to work out a little sum , and see what an effect can be gained . 
You will be a God yet yourself , Deucalion , with these silly Atlanteans , if only you will use your wit and cleverness . 
Was she laughing at me ? Was she in earnest ? I could not tell . 
Only one plan seemed humanly possible , and that was to curb her further mischievousness by death and then leave the wretched country naturally to recover . 
It was just a dagger stroke , and the thing was done . 
We had once more mounted the litter , and once more the bearers , with their heads beneath the pole , bore us on at their accustomed swinging trot . 
Phorenice was telling me about her new supplies of gold . 
She had made fresh sumptuary laws , it appeared . 
There are many exasperations , Deucalion , in governing these common people . 
With permission , I said , I will step out of the conveyance and scatter this rabble . 
Oh , the people always cluster round me . 
Poor ugly souls , they seem to take a strange delight in coming to stare at my pretty looks . 
I have said I did not wish to be followed . 
I am taking holiday now , Deucalion , am I not , whilst you learn to woo me ? I stepped to the ground . 
The prospect was unpleasant enough . 
Indeed , even in those days of peace and good government in the old King's time , this part of the city had rarely been without its weekly riot . 
The life of the fisherman is the most hard that any human toilers have to endure . 
Moreover , the manner which prevails of catching fish is not without its risks . 
To each man there is a large sea fowl taken as a nestling , and trained to the work . 
All of which circumstances tend to make the fishers rude , desperate men , who have been forced into the trade because all other callings have rejected them . 
For an employment , I added , put your houses in order , and clean the fish offal from the lanes between them . 
To morrow I will come round here to inspect , and put this quarter into a better order . 
wishes for a privacy , so cease your staring . 
Then give us money , said a shrill voice from amongst the huts . 
I will send you a torch in an hour's time , I said grimly , and rig you a gallows , if you give me more annoyance . 
To your kennels , you ! I think they would have obeyed the voice of authority if they had been left to themselves . 
There was a quick stir amongst them . 
Those that stood in the sunlight instinctively slipped into the shadow , and many dodged into the houses and cowered in dark corners out of sight . 
But the men in the two hide covered fisher boats that were paddling up , called them back with boisterous cries . 
I signed to the litter bearers to move on quickly along their road . 
There was need of discipline here , and I was minded to deal it out myself with a firm hand . 
But it seems I was presumptuous in giving an order which dealt with the person of Phorenice . 
She bade the bearers stand where they were , and stepped out , and drew her weapons from beneath the cushions . 
She came towards me strapping a sword on to her hip , and carrying a well dinted target of gold on her left forearm . 
An unfair trick , cries she , laughing . 
The robe and the glittering gauds of which Phorenice had recently despoiled the merchant , drew the eyes of these people with keen attraction . 
And from the houses , and from the filthy lanes between them , poured out hordes of others , women mixed with the men , gathering round us threateningly . 
Have a care , shouted one on the outskirts of the crowd . 
She called down fire for the sacrifice once to day , and she can burn up others here if she chooses . 
So much the more for those that are left , retorted another . 
Nay , I will not burn any , said Phorenice , but you shall look upon my sword play till you are tired . 
But they gave us little enough time for wordy courtesies . 
Their Empress never went far unattended , and , for aught the wretches knew , an escort might be close behind . 
So what pilfering they did , it behoved them to get done quickly . 
They closed in , jostling one another to be first , and the reek of their filthy bodies made us cough . 
Your back to mine , comrade , cried she , with a laugh , and then drew and laid about her with fine dexterity . 
Bah ! but it was mere slaughter , that first bout . 
It is necessary to do one's work cleanly in these bouts , as wounded left on the ground unnoticed before one are as dangerous as so many snakes . 
But as we circled round in our battling I noted that all of Phorenice's quarry lay peaceful and still . 
By the Gods ! but she could play a fine sword , this dainty Empress . 
She touched life with every thrust . 
I did not like Phorenice the less for the knowledge . 
And always above the burly uproar of the fight came very pleasantly to my ears Phorenice's cry of Deucalion ! which she chose as her battle shout . 
Condemn my weakness how you will , but I came very near then to liking the Empress of Atlantis in the way she wished . 
Of such frail stuff are we made , even those of us who esteem ourselves the strongest . 
The attack slackened and halted . 
We stood in the middle of a ring of twisted dead , and the rest of the fishers and their women who hemmed us in shrank back out of reach of our weapons . 
It makes your backs creep , does it ? said Phorenice . 
This severity must have its unpleasant side . 
But there was no pressing up to meet our swords . 
I looked round me up and down the beach . 
There was no sign of a rescue . 
Then I am to have a courtier for a husband after all . 
Why have you kept back your flattering speeches till now ? Is that your trick to make me love you ? I will think out the reason for it another time . 
Gods ! what a charge she made . 
It made me tingle with admiration as I followed sideways behind her , guarding the rear . 
And I am a man that has spent so many years in battling , that it takes something far out of the common to move me to any enthusiasm in this matter . 
So that , let us but get the other craft afloat , and we should be free from further embroiling . 
But the fishers were quick to see the object of this new manoeuvre . 
Guard the boat , they shouted . 
She was down beside the boat before any could reach it , laughing and shouting out that she could beat them at every point . 
Still I came to the beach in good order , and laid hands on the flimsy boat and tipped her dry . 
Fighting is no trade for , me , I cried , whilst you are here , Phorenice . 
Guard me my back and walk out into the water . 
I took the boat , thrusting it afloat , and wading with it till two lines of the surf were past . 
By the Gods ! I laughed with sheer delight at seeing her art of fence . 
Yes , and she did more than that . 
The fishers near it dodged and dived . 
I , thrusting at the stern of the boat , could only hope it would pass me by and so offered an easy mark . 
It scurried towards me , champing its noisy lips , and beating the water into spray with its flippers . 
But Phorenice was quick with a remedy and a rescue . 
She passed her sword through one of the fishers that pressed her , and then thrust the body towards the turtle . 
Phorenice wrung the water from her clothes and shivered . 
Work hard with those paddles , Deucalion , and take me in through the water gate and let me be restored to my comforts again . 
She looked at me sidelong , tossing back the short red hair from her eyes . 
What think you of my wisdom in coming where we have come without an escort ? The Empress can do no wrong , I quoted the old formula with a smile . 
At least I have shown you that I can fight . 
I caught you looking your approval of me quite pleasantly once or twice . 
You were a difficult man to thaw , Deucalion , but you warm perceptibly as you keep on being near me . 
La , sir , we shall be a pair of rustic sweethearts yet , if this goes on . 
I am glad I thought of the device of going near those smelly fishers . 
Still for the life of me , I could not help comparing Phorenice with another woman . 
Her eyes glowed upon me as I talked . 
I cried these things in my heart , and waited to receive the omen . 
There was no half answer . 
I bowed my head as I rowed on towards the harbour forts . 
It was plain that not yet would the High Gods take vengeance for the insults which this lovely woman had offered Them . 
They silenced the drums , torches were lowered to make sure of our faces , and then with a splash the great chain was dropped into the water to give us passage . 
The huge red beast stood shoulder deep in the harbour water , with trunk up turned . 
It was tamed now , and the light of the boat's lantern fell on the little ripples sent out by its tremblings . 
But I did not choose to intercede or ask mercy for it . 
If the mammoth sank deeper in the harbour mud , and was swallowed , I could have borne the loss with equanimity . 
To tell the truth , that ride on the great beast's back had impressed me unfavourably . 
In fact , it put into me a sense of helplessness that was wellnigh intolerable . 
Perhaps circumstances have made me unduly self reliant on that others must judge . 
But I will own to having a preference for walking on my own proper feet , as the Gods in fashioning our shapes most certainly intended . 
But on the back of that detestable mammoth , pah ! I grew as nervous as a child or a dastard . 
However , I had little enough leisure for personal megrims just then . 
It is to be hoped he understands his work , said the Empress . 
That pretty Nais knows the pyramid better than most , and it may be he will be sent to the tormentors for putting her in a cell which had a secret outlet . 
You would feel pleasure if the girl escaped , Deucalion ? Assuredly , said I , knowing how useless it would be to make a secret of the matter . 
I have no enmity against Nais . 
But I have , said she viciously , and I am still minded to lock your faith to me by that wedding gift you know of . 
The thing shall be done , I said . 
Before all , the Empress of Atlantis . 
Poof ! Deucalion , you are too stiff and formal . 
You ought to be mightily honoured that I condescend to be jealous of your favours . 
Your hand , sir , please , to help me into the litter . 
And now come in beside me , and keep me warm against the night air . 
Ho ! you guards there with the torches ! Keep farther back against the street walls . 
The perfume you are burning stifles me . 
There was method , too , in their salutation . 
The flaring jets of earth breath showed me , too , so I thought , a plainer habit of dress , and a more sober mien amongst this thoughtless mob of banqueters . 
Oh , sir , she pleaded mockingly , do not make your rule over us too ascetic . 
It's done by no orders of mine , Deucalion . 
They have swung round to this change by sheer courtier instinct . 
Why , look at the beards of the men ! There is not half the curl about many of them to day that they showed with such exquisiteness yesterday . 
By my face ! I believe they'd reap their chins to morrow as smooth as yours , if you go on setting the fashions at this prodigious rate and I do not interfere . 
Why hinder them if they feel more cleanly shaven ? No , sir . 
There shall be only one clean chin where a beard can grow in all Atlantis , and that shall be carried by the man who is husband to the Empress . 
You show me that there is more in the office of a ruler than meets the eye . 
And yet they tell me , and indeed show me , that you have ruled with some success . 
I employed the older method . 
It requires a Phorenice to invent these nicer flights . 
Flatterer ! said she , and smote me playfully with the back of her little fingers on my arm . 
You are becoming as great a courtier as any of them . 
You make me blush with your fine pleasantries , Deucalion , and there is no fan girl here to night to cool my cheek . 
I must choose me another fan girl . 
But it shall not be Ylga . 
I shall not be hard on Ylga unless she forces me , but I will have no woman in this kingdom treat you with undue civility . 
Ah , now , she said , you must not ask me to do impossibilities . 
I am powerful if you will . 
But I have no force which will govern the hearts of these poor fellows on matters such as that . 
Indeed , Deucalion , I think it would be a pretty attention to me if you did arrange some such ceremony . 
It seems to me a present , she added with a frown , that the jealousy is too much on one side . 
You must not expect that a man who has been divorced from love for all of a busy life can learn all its niceties in an instant . 
Myself , I was feeling proud of my progress . 
With any other schoolmistress than you , Phorenice , I should not be near so forward . 
, I should not have begun to learn at all . 
I suppose you think I should be satisfied with that ? Well , I am not . 
I can be finely greedy over some matters . 
The banquet this night did not extend to inordinate length . 
Phorenice had gone through much since last she slept , and though she had declared herself Goddess in the meantime , it seemed that her body remained mortal as heretofore . 
The black rings of weariness had grown under her wondrous eyes , and she lay back amongst the cushions of the divan with her limbs slackened and listless . 
To morrow , she said wearily , but for now grant me peace . 
My Lord Deucalion has given me much food for thought this day , and presently I go to my chamber to muse over the future policies of this State throughout the night . 
To morrow come to me again , and if your poetry is good and short , I will pay you surprisingly . 
But see to it that you are not long winded . 
If there are superfluous words , I will pay you for those with the stick . 
She clung on my arm , and once when we halted whilst a great stone block swung slowly ajar to let us pass , she drooped her head against my shoulder . 
Her breath came warm against my cheek , and the loveliness of her face so close at hand surpasses the description of words . 
So when the stone block had swung , she drew away with a sigh , and we went on without further speech . 
May the High Gods treat you tenderly , I said , when we came to the door of her bed chamber . 
I am my own God , said she , in all things but one . 
By my face ! you are a tardy wooer , Deucalion . 
Where do you go now ? To my own chamber . 
Oh , go then , go . 
Is there anything more I could do ? Nothing that your wit or your will would prompt you to . 
Yes , indeed , you are finely decorous , Deucalion , in your old fashioned way , but you are a mighty poor wooer . 
You never said a truer word . 
Bah ! And I believe your coldness brings you more benefit in a certain matter than any show of passion could earn . 
Get you gone , man , and leave me solitary . 
I , too , was heavily wearied with what I had gone through since my last snatch of sleep , but I dare set apart no time for rest just then . 
Help came to me also from a quarter I did not expect . 
She regarded me half sullenly . 
I have lost my place , she said , and it seems I need never have spoken . 
She intended to have you all along , and it was not a thing like that which could put her off . 
And you you just think me officious , if , indeed , you have ever given me another thought till now . 
I never forget a kindness . 
Oh , you will learn that trick soon now . 
And you are going to marry her , you ! The city is ringing with it . 
I thought at least you were honest , but when there is a high place to be got by merely taking a woman with it , you are like the rest . 
I thought , too , that you would be one of those men who have a distrust for ruddy hair . 
And , besides she is little . 
Ylga , I said , you have taught me that these walls are full of crannies and ears . 
I will listen to no word against Phorenice . 
But I would have further converse with you soon . 
If you still have a kindness for me , go to the chamber that is mine and wait for me there . 
I will join you shortly . 
What do you want of me , Deucalion ? I want to say something to you . 
You will learn who it concerns later . 
But is it is it fitting for a maiden to come to a man's room at this hour ? I know little of your conventions here in this new Atlantis . 
I am Deucalion , girl , and if you still have qualms , remembering that , do not come . 
She looked up at me with a sneer . 
I was foolish , she said . 
My lord's coldness has grown into a proverb , and I should have remembered it . 
Go now , then , said I , and waited till she had passed on ahead and was out of sight and hearing . 
With Ylga to help me , my tasks were somewhat lightened , and their sequence changed . 
And here my knowledge as one of the Seven stood me in high favour . 
It was with some trouble , and after no little experiment that I groped my way into this secret alley but once there , the rest was easy . 
With a faint creak the massive eyeball below , a stone that I could barely have covered with my back , swung inwards . 
I stepped off the stair , and climbed into the gap . 
Inside was the chamber which is hollowed from the head of the Goddess . 
High as I was in the learning and mysteries of the Priestly Clan , the structure of what I had come to fetch was hidden from me . 
There were three of these balls in the hidden place , and I took the one that was needful , concealing the others as I had found them . 
One look I took at the image of the Goddess before I left the temple . 
The jet of earth breath which burns eternally from the central altar lit her from head to toe , and threw sparkles from the great jewel in her forehead . 
It was with tired dragging limbs that I made my way back again to the royal pyramid , and at last came to my own private chamber . 
Ylga awaited me there , though at first I did not see her . 
Oh , frown at me if you choose , said she sullenly , I am past caring now for your good opinion . 
I had heard so much of Deucalion , and I thought I read honesty in you when first you came ashore but now I know that you are no better than the rest . 
Phorenice offers you a high place , and you marry her blithely to get it . 
And why , indeed , should you not marry her ? People say she is pretty , and I know she can be warm . 
I have seen her warm and languishing to scores of men . 
She is clever , too , with her eyes , is our great Empress I grant her that . 
And as for you , it tickles you to be courted . 
I think you are a very silly woman , I said . 
If you flatter yourself it matters a rap to me whom you marry , you are letting conceit run away with you . 
I did not ask you here to make foolish speeches which seem largely beyond my comprehension . 
I asked you to help me do a service to one of your own blood kin . 
She stared at me wonderingly . 
It rests largely with you as to whether Nais dies to morrow , or whether she is thrown into a sleep from which she may waken on some later and more happy day . 
My twin , Nais ? She is not here . 
She is out in the camp with those nasty rebels who bite against the city walls , if , indeed , still she lives . 
Nais , your sister is near us in the royal pyramid this minute , and under guard , though where I do not know . 
And with that I told her all that had passed since the girl was brought up a prisoner in the galley of that foolish , fawning captain of the port . 
The Empress has decreed that Nais shall be buried alive under a throne of granite which I am to build for her to morrow , and buried she will assuredly be . 
So it is Nais and not Phorenice , and not not any other ? Yes it is Nais . 
I marry the Empress because Zaemon , who is mouthpiece to the High Council of the Priests , has ordered it , for the good of Atlantis . 
But my inwards remain still cold towards her . 
Almost I hate poor Nais already . 
Your vengeance would be easy . 
Do not tell me where she is gaoled , and I shall not dare to ask . 
I looked her between eyes and smiled . 
I have no fear there . 
You will not betray me , Ylga . 
Neither will you sell Nais . 
I seem to remember very small love for this same Nais just now , she said bitterly . 
But you are right about that other matter . 
I shall not buy myself back at your expense . 
Oh , I am a fool , I know , and you can give me no thanks that I care about , but there is no other way I can act . 
Then let us fritter no more time . 
Go you out now and find where Nais is gaoled , and bring me news how I can say ten words to her , and press a certain matter into her clasp . 
She bowed her head and left the chamber , and for long enough I was alone . 
I sat down on the couch , and rested wearily against the wall . 
My bones ached , my eyes ached , and most of all , my inwards ached . 
Ylga came back at last , and I got up and went quickly after her as she led down a maze of passages and alleyways . 
There has been no care spared over her guarding , she whispered , as we halted once to move a stone . 
The officer of the guard is an old lover of mine , and I raised his hopes to the burning point again by a dozen words . 
But when I wanted to see his prisoner , there he was as firm as brass . 
I told him she was my sister , but that did not move him . 
I offered him oh , Deucalion , it makes me blush to think of the things I did offer to that man , but there was no stirring him . 
He has watched the tormentors so many times , that there is no tempting him into touch of their instruments . 
If you have failed , why bring me out here ? Oh , I am not inveigling you into a lover's walk with myself , sir . 
You tickle yourself when you think your society is so pleasant as that . 
Come , girl , tell me then what it is . 
If my temper is short , credit it against my weariness . 
I have carried out my lord's commands in part . 
I know the cell where Nais lives , and I have had speech with her , though not through the door . 
And moreover , I have not seen her or touched her hand . 
Your riddles are beyond me , Ylga , but if there is a chance , let us get on and have this business done . 
For myself , I will leave you . 
I have a delicacy in hearing what you want to say to my sister , Deucalion . 
I thank you , I said . 
I will not forget what you have done for me this night . 
You may keep your thanks , she said bitterly , and walked away into the shadows . 
I knelt on the floor of the gallery , and found the air passage with my hand , and then , putting my lips to it , whispered for Nais . 
The answer came on the instant , muffled and quiet . 
I knew my lord would come for a farewell . 
What the Empress said , has to be . 
You understand , my dear ? It is for Atlantis . 
Have I reproached my lord , by word or glance ? I myself am bidden to place you in the hollow between the stones , and I must do it . 
Then my last sleep will be a sweet one . 
I could not ask to be touched by pleasanter hands . 
But it mayhap that a day will come when she whom you know of will be suffered by the High Gods to live on this land of Atlantis no longer . 
If my lord will cherish my poor memory when he is free again , I shall be grateful . 
You must not die , I whispered . 
My breast is near broken at the very thought of it . 
And for respite , we must trust to the ancient knowledge , which in its day has been sent out from the Ark of the Mysteries . 
I took the green waxy ball in my fingers , and stretched them down the crooked air shaft to the full of my span . 
I have somewhat for you here . 
Reach up and try to catch it from me . 
I heard the faint rustle of her arm as it swept against the masonry , and then the ball was taken over into her grasp . 
I have it , she whispered . 
Sleep will take you , my darling , then , and the High Gods will watch over you , even though centuries pass before you are roused . 
If Deucalion does not wake me , I shall pray never again to open an eye . 
And now go , my lord and my dear . 
They watch me here constantly , and I would not have you harmed by being brought to notice . 
Yes , I must go , my sweetheart . 
It will not do to have our scheme spoiled by a foolish loitering . 
Amen , she whispered back , and then Kiss your fingers , dear , and thrust them down to me . 
Then again she kissed her own fingers and stretched them up , and I took up the virtue of that parting kiss on my finger tips and pressed it sacredly to my lips . 
Living , sleeping , or dead , always my darling , she whispered . 
And then , before I could answer , she whispered again Go , they are coming for me . 
Remember , we make these small denials , not for our own likings , but for Atlantis , which is mother to us all . 
THE BURYING ALIVE OF NAIS There is no denying that the wishes of Phorenice were carried into quick effect in the city of Atlantis . 
The architects chose a chief who gave directions , and the lesser architects and the engineers saw these carried into effect . 
was constantly on the increase . 
The throne was to be erected in the open square before the royal pyramid . 
Seven tiers of stone were there for a groundwork , each a knee height deep , and each cut in the front with three steps . 
In the uppermost layer was a cavity made to hold the body of Nais , and above this was poised the vast block which formed the seat of the throne itself . 
Whips cracked , and men fainted with the labour , but so soon as one was incapable another pressed forward into his place . 
No delay was brooked when Phorenice had said her wish . 
But at present the upper part was not on its bed , being held up high by lifting rams , for what purposes all men knew . 
It was to face this scene , then , that I came out from the royal pyramid at the summons of the chamberlains in the cool of next morning . 
And then came Phorenice , my bride that was to be that day , fresh from sleep , and glorious in her splendid beauty . 
who could by any stretch imagine that I was not overjoyed in winning so lovely a wife . 
For myself , I summoned up all the iron of my training to guard the expression of my face . 
And she , on her part , would not , I knew , betray our secret . 
With her , too , it was truly Before all Atlantis . 
I think it spared a pang to find that there was to be no mockery or flippancy in what went forward . 
So she was borne up by her Europeans to the scarlet awning , and I handed her to the ground . 
She seated herself on the cushions , and beckoned me to her side , entwining her fingers with mine as has always been the custom with rulers of Atlantis and their consorts . 
And there before us as we sat , a body of soldiery marched up , and opening out showed Nais in their midst . 
But it was pleasant to see that she still wore her clothing . 
Raiment , whether of fabric or skin , has its value , and custom has always given the garments of the condemned to the soldiers guarding them . 
Her face was pale , but showed neither fear nor defiance , and her eyes were calm and natural . 
She was remembering what was due to Atlantis , and I was thrilled with love and pride as I watched her . 
Nais , said the Empress , you have eaten from my platter when you were fan girl , and drunk from my cup , and what was yours I gave you . 
You should have had more than gratitude , you should have had knowledge also that the arm of the Empress was long and her hand consummately heavy . 
But it seems that you have neither of these things . 
And , moreover , you have tried to take a certain matter that the Empress has set apart for herself . 
You were offered pardon , on terms , and you rejected it . 
But it is a day now when I am inclined to clemency . 
Presently , seated on that carved throne of granite which he has built me yonder , I shall take my Lord Deucalion to husband . 
I will not wed , she said quietly . 
Think for the last time , Nais , of what is the other choice . 
You will be taken , warm , and quick , and beautiful as you stand there this minute , and laid in the hollow place that is made beneath the throne stone . 
Look at the bright sky , Nais , fill your chest with the sweet warm air , and then think of what this death will mean . 
Believe me , girl , I do not want to make you an example unless you force me . 
I will not wed , said the prisoner quietly . 
The Empress loosed her fingers from my arm , and lay back against the cushions . 
If the girl presumes on our old familiarity , or thinks that I jest , show her now , Deucalion , that I do not . 
The Empress is far from jesting , I said . 
Lead your prisoner to the place . 
The soldiers wheeled , and the two guards with the chains of the collar which was on the neck of Nais prepared to put out force to drag her up the steps . 
But she walked with them willingly , and with a colour unchanged , and I rose from my seat , and made obeisance to the Empress and followed them . 
We were not as Phorenice to flaunt endearments before others . 
Yet , outwardly , Nais made so sign , but lay half strangled in my arms , as any woman does that is being borne away by a spoiler . 
And yet the girl resisted me with no one effort whatever . 
Gods ! and the sweat of agony dripped from me on to the thirsty stone as I worked . 
I could not keep that in . 
I clamped and locked the last two bars in place , and took my brute's hand away from her throat . 
The hateful fingermarks showed as bloodless furrows in the whiteness of her skin . 
For the life of me , yes , even for the fate of Atlantis , I could not help dropping my glance upon her face . 
But she was stronger than I. She gave me no last look . 
She kept her eyes steadfastly fixed on the cruel stone above , and so I left her , knowing that it was best not to tarry longer . 
I came out from under the stone , and gave the sign to the engineers who stood by the rams . 
But ah , so slowly ! Gods ! how my soul was torn as I watched and waited . 
But perhaps I am hard there on them . 
I had gone up the steps to do my hateful work a man full of grief , though outwardly unmoved . 
So I went and stood before Phorenice , and said the words which the ancient forms prescribed concerning the carrying out of her wish . 
Then , now , she said , I will give myself to you as wife . 
We are not as others , you and I , Deucalion . 
There is a law and a form set down for the marrying of these other people , but that would be useless for our purposes . 
We will have neither priest nor scribe to join us and set down the union . 
I am the law here in Atlantis , and you soon will be part of me . 
We will not be demeaned by profaner hands . 
We will make the ceremony for ourselves , and for witnesses , there are sufficient in waiting . 
The Empress can do no wrong , I said formally , and took the hand she offered me , and helped her to rise . 
But for me they had no welcoming word . 
I think the set grimness of my face both scared and repelled them . 
She raised her jewelled hand , and a silence fell on that great throng , as though the breath had been suddenly cut short for all of them . 
Then Phorenice made proclamation Hear me , O my people , and hear me , O High Gods from whom I am come . 
I take this man Deucalion , to be my husband , to share with me the prosperity of Atlantis , and join me in guarding our great possession . 
May all our enemies perish as she is now perishing above whom we sit . 
And then she put her arms around my neck , and kissed me hotly on the mouth . 
In turn I also spoke Hear me , O most High Gods , whose servant I am , and hear me also , O ye people . 
I take this Empress , Phorenice , to wife , to help with her the prosperity of Atlantis , and join with her in guarding the welfare of that great possession . 
May all the enemies of this country perish as they have perished in the past . 
But we were not completely linked yet . 
In token of this we will now make the symbolic joining together , so that all may see and remember . 
She took her dagger , and pricking the brawn on my forearm till a head of blood appeared , set her red lips to it , and took it into herself . 
Ah , she said , with her eyes sparkling , now you are part of me indeed , Deucalion , and I feel you have strengthened me already . 
She pulled down the neck of her robe . 
Let me make you my return . 
I pricked the rounded whiteness of her shoulder . 
My tongue was dry , my throat was parched , and my face suffused , and I thought I should have choked . 
But the Empress , who was ordinarily so acute , was misled then . 
It thrills you ? she cried . 
It burns within you like living fire ? I have just felt it . 
By my face ! Deucalion , if I had known the pleasure it gives to be made a wife , I do not think I should have waited this long for you . 
Ah , yes but with another man I should have had no thrill . 
I might have gone through the ceremony with another , but it would have left me cold . 
She leaned in close to me so that the red curls of her hair swept my cheek , and her breath came hot against my mouth . 
The Gods know how honestly I had striven to play the part commanded me for Atlantis' good , but there is a limit to human endurance , and mine was reached . 
I was not all anger towards her . 
Words are poor things , I said , and I am a man unused to women , and have but a small stock of any phrases except the dryest . 
My inwards speak indeed they are full of speech but I cannot translate into bald cold words what they say . 
And here , surely the High Gods took pity on my tied tongue and my misery , and made an opportunity for bringing the ceremony to an end . 
, the affairs took a different light . 
It was no moment for further delay , and Phorenice was the first to admit it . 
The glow that had been in her eyes changed to the glare of the fighter , as the fellow who had run up squalled out his tidings . 
I stood and stretched my chest . 
I seemed in need of air . 
Here , I said , is work that I can understand more clearly . 
I will go and sweep this rabble back to their burrows , Phorenice . 
But not alone , sir . 
It is my city still . 
Nay , sir , we are too newly wed to be parted yet . 
Have your will , I said , and together we went down the steps of the throne to the pavement below . 
Under my breath I said a farewell to Nais . 
Our armour bearers met us with weapons , and we stepped into litters , and the slaves took us off hot foot . 
And so we let them run screaming on their blind way , but forced the litters through them with but very little regard for their coward convenience . 
Now the advantage of the rebels , when it came to be looked upon by a soldier's eye , was a thing of little enough importance . 
They had driven a tunnel from behind a covering mound , beneath the walls , and had opened it cleverly enough through the floor of a middle class house . 
would sap the watchfulness of the city guards . 
We grow nervous with our married life , my Deucalion , she said . 
We are fearful lest this new found happiness be taken from us too suddenly . 
But I was not to be robbed of my breathing space in this wise . 
Let me crave a wedding gift of you , I said . 
It is yours before you name it . 
Then give me troops , and set me wide a city gate a mile away from here . 
You can gather five hundred as you go from here to the gate , taking two hundred of those that are here . 
If you want more , they must be fetched from other barracks along the walls . 
Your scheme is so pretty , I would I could rob you of it for my own credit's sake , and as it is , I must kiss you for your cleverness . 
But you got my word first , you naughty fellow , and you shall have the men and do as you ask . 
Eh , sir , this is a sad beginning of our wedded life , if you begin to rob your little wife of all the sweets of conquest from the outset . 
She took back the weapons and target she had given to the armour bearer , and stepped over the side of the litter to the ground . 
But for the Empress , I will own at the time to have given little enough of thought . 
By the Gods ! for the moment even Nais was blotted from my wearied mind . 
Never had I loved more to let my fierceness run madly riot . 
Never have I gloated more abundantly over the terrible joy of battle . 
Nais must forgive my weakness in seeking to forget her even for a breathing space . 
Had that opportunity been denied me , I believe the agony of remembering would have snapped my brain strings for always . 
My scheme of attack was simple . 
I hunted them without a halt . 
I and my fellows never stopped to play the defensive . 
We turned one flank , and charged through a centre , and then we were harrying the other flank , and once more hacking our passage through the solid mass . 
It was no feat of arms this breaking up of the rebel leaguer , and no practised soldier would wish to claim it as such . 
It was simply taking advantage of the chances of the moment , and as such it was successful . 
Too great severity , though perhaps it may be justly their portion , only drives such malcontents to further desperations . 
It is the special perquisite of soldiers to dally over these matters with gusto , though they are entirely without interest for laymen . 
The hour drew on for sleep , and snores went up from every side . 
It was clear that all my officers were wearied out , and only continued the talk through deference to their commander . 
Yet I had a feverish dread of being left alone again with my thoughts , and pressed them on with conversation remorselessly . 
But in the end they were saved the rudeness of dropping off into unconsciousness during my talk . 
A sentry came up and saluted . 
My lord , he reported . 
there is a woman come up from the city whom we have caught trying to come into the bivouac . 
How is she named ? She will not say . 
Has she business ? She will say none . 
She demands only to see my lord . 
, I said to the sentry Stay , and got up from the ground beside the fire , and went with him to the outer line . 
Where is she ? I asked . 
My comrades are holding her . 
She might be a wench belonging to these rebels , with designs to put a knife into my lord's heart , and then we sentries would suffer . 
The Empress , he added simply , seems to set good store upon my lord at present , and we know the cleverness of her tormentors . 
Your thoughtfulness is frank , I said , and then he showed me the woman . 
She was muffled up in hood and cloak , but one who loved Nais as I loved could not mistake the form of Ylga , her twin sister , because of mere swathings . 
So I told the sentries to release her without asking her for speech , and then led her out from the bivouac beyond earshot of their lines . 
But what's your errand , girl ? Aye , she said bitterly , there's my reward . 
All your concern's for the message , none for the carrier . 
Well , good my lord , you are husband to the dainty Phorenice no longer . 
And true enough , too . 
The Empress can do no wrong . 
I will have you speak respectful words of the Empress . 
Oh , be done with that old fable ! It sickens me . 
The woman was mad for love of you , and now she's mad with jealousy . 
And if you wish to know the method of her enlightenment , it is simple . 
There is another airshaft next to the one down which you did your cooing and billing , and that leads to another cell in which lay another prisoner . 
The wretch heard all that passed , and thought to buy enlargement by telling it . 
But his news came a trifle stale . 
And now you may thank me , sir , for coming to warn you not to go back to Atlantis . 
But I shall go back . 
And if the Empress chooses to cut my head also from its proper column , that is as the High Gods will . 
You are more sick of life than I thought . 
But I think , sir , our Phorenice judges your case very accurately . 
It was permitted me to hear the outbursting of this lady's rage . 
'Shall I hew off his head ? said she . 
'Pah ! Shall I give him over to my tormentors , and stand by whilst they do their worst ? He would not wrinkle his brow at their fiercest efforts . 
No he must have a heavier punishment than any of these , and one also which will endure . 
The beasts shall hunt him , the fires of the ground shall spoil his rest . 
He shall know hunger , and he shall breathe bad air . 
That is what she said , Deucalion . 
Now I ask you again will you go back to meet her vengeance ? No , I said , it is no part of my plan to be mutilated and left to live . 
So , being a woman of some sense , I judged . 
Does the name of Tob come back to your memory ? One who was Captain of Tatho's navy ? That same Tob . 
A gruff , rude fellow , and smelling vile of tar , but seeming to have a sturdy honesty of his own . 
Tob sails away this night for parts unknown , presumably to found a kingdom with Tob for king . 
It seems he can find little enough to earn at his craft in Atlantis these latter days , and has scruples at seeing his wife and young ones hungry . 
You seem to have made a fine impression on Tob , Deucalion . 
By the fellow's side , I gained some experience in fighting the greater sea beasts . 
Well , go and do it again . 
Believe me , sir , it is your only chance . 
It would grieve me much to hear the searing iron hiss on your stumps . 
Come , Deucalion , let me lead you to the place . 
My girl , I said , I see I owe you many thanks for what you have done on my poor behalf . 
Oh , your thanks ! she said . 
I did not come out here in the dark and the dangers for mere thanks , though I knew well enough there would be little else offered . 
She plucked at my sleeve . 
Now show me your walking pace , sir . 
They will begin to want your countenance in the camp directly , and we need hanker after no too narrow inquiries for what's along . 
Few words were passed between us , except those which had concern with the dangers natural to the way . 
Once only did we touch one another , and that was where a tree trunk bridged a rivulet of scalding water which flowed from a boil spring towards the sea . 
Are you sure of footing ? I asked , for the night was dark , and the heat of the water would peel the flesh from the bones if one slipped into it . 
No , she said , I am not , and reached out and took my hand . 
I helped her over and then loosed my grip , and she sighed , and slowly slipped her hand away . 
Then on again we went in silence , side by side , hour after hour , and league after league . 
But at last we topped a rise , and below us through the trees I could see the gleam of the great estuary on which the city of Atlantis stands . 
The ground was soggy and wet beneath us , the trees were full of barbs and spines , the way was monstrous hard . 
Ylga's breath was beginning to come in laboured pants . 
But when I offered to take her arm , and help her , as some return against what she had done for me , she repulsed me rudely enough . 
I am no poor weakling , said she , if that is your only reason for wanting to touch me . 
Presently , however , we came out through the trees , and the roughest part of our journey was done . 
We saw the ship riding to her anchors in shore a mile away , and a weird enough object she was under the faint starlight . 
We made our way to her along the level beaches . 
Tob was keeping a keen watch . 
He called a crew and slacked out his anchor rope till his ship ground against the shingle , and then thrust out his two steering oars to help us clamber aboard . 
I turned to Ylga with words of thanks and farewell . 
I will never forget what you have done for me this night and should the High Gods see fit to bring me back to Atlantis and power , you shall taste my gratitude . 
I do not want to return . 
I am sick of this old life here . 
But you have your palace in the city , and your servants , and your wealth , and Phorenice will not disturb you from their possession . 
Oh , as for that , I could go back and be fan girl tomorrow . 
But I do not want to go back . 
Let me tell you it is no time for a gently nurtured lady like yourself to go forward . 
I have been viceroy of Yucatan , Ylga , and know somewhat of making a foothold in these new countries . 
And that was nothing compared with what this will be . 
I tell you it entails hardships , and privations , and sufferings which you could not guess at . 
Few survive who go to colonise in the beginning , and those only of the hardiest , and they earn new scars and new batterings every day . 
I do not care , and , besides , I can share the work . 
Because you despise fine clothes , and because you have seen me only decked out as fan girl , you think I am useless . 
Bah , Deucalion ! Never let people prate to me about your perfection . 
You know less about a woman than a boy new from school . 
I have learned all I care to know about one woman , and because of the memory of her , I could not presume to ask her sister to come with me now . 
Aye , she said bitterly , kick my pride . 
I knew well enough it was only second place to Nais I could get all the time I was wanting to come . 
Yet no one but a boor would have reminded me of it . 
Gods ! and to think that half the men in Atlantis have courted me , and now I am arrived at this ! I must go alone . 
It would have made me happier to take your esteem with me . 
But as it is , I suppose I shall carry only your hate . 
That is the most humiliating thing of all I cannot bring myself to hate you . 
I ought to , I know , after the brutal way you have scorned me . 
But I do not , and there is the truth . 
She flung her arms suddenly about my neck , and kissed me hotly on the mouth . 
There , that is for good bye , dear . 
You see I am reckless . 
I care not what I do now , knowing that you cannot despise me more than you have done all along for my forwardness . 
She ran back from me into the edge of the trees . 
But this is foolishness , I said . 
I must take you through the dangers that lie between here and some gate of the city , and then come back to the ship . 
You need not fear for me . 
The unhappy are always safe . 
And , besides , I have a way . 
It is my solace to know that you will remember me now . 
You will never forget that kiss . 
Fare you well , Ylga , I cried . 
May the High Gods keep you entirely in their holy care . 
But no reply came back . 
She had gone off into the forest . 
And so I turned down to the beach , and splashed into the water , and climbed on board the ship up the steering oars . 
Tob gave the word to haul to the anchor , and get her away from the beach . 
Greeting , my lord , said he , but I'd have been pleased to see you earlier . 
It's long enough since I sailed in such a small old fashioned ship as this . 
She's no machines , and she's not even a steering mannikin . 
I've suspicions that there's rottenness in her bottom . 
She's been a ship in the Egypt trade , and you know what that is for getting worm and rot in the wood . 
You'd enough hands for your scheme before I came ? Oh yes . 
I've fifty stout lads and eight women packed in the ship somehow , and trouble enough I've had to get them away from the city . 
That thief of a port captain wellnigh skinned us clean before he could see it lawful that so many useful fighting men might go out of harbour . 
Times are not what they were , I tell you , and the sea trade's about done . 
All sailor men of any skill have taken a woman or two and gone out in companies to try their fortunes in other lands . 
Why , I'd trouble enough to get half a score to help me work this ship . 
All my balance are just landsmen raw and simple , and if I land half of them alive at the other end , we shall be doing well . 
Still with luck and a few good winds it should not take long to get across to Europe . 
No savage Europe for me , my lord . 
Now , see the advantage of being a mariner . 
I was driven there by storm , and said no word of the find when I got back , and here you see it comes in useful . 
The savages in my Tin Islands go naked and stain themselves blue with woad , and are very filthy and brutish to look upon . 
They are sturdy , and should make good slaves , but one would have to get blunted in the taste before one could wish to be father to their children . 
I am still husband to Phorenice . 
The Gods give you joy of her . 
But it is part of a mariner's creed and you will grow to be a mariner here that wedlock does not hold across the seas . 
However , that matter may rest . 
But , coming to my Tin Islands again they'll delight you . 
And I tell you , a kingdom will not be so hard to carve out as it was in Egypt , or as you found in Yucatan . 
There are beasts there , of course , and no one who can hunt need ever go hungry . 
But the greater beasts are few . 
There are cave bears and cave tigers in small numbers , to be sure , and some river horses and great snakes . 
But the greater lizards seem to avoid the land and as for birds , there is rarely seen one that can hurt a grown man . 
Oh , I tell you , it will be a most desirable kingdom . 
Tob seems to have imagined himself king of the Tin Islands with much reality . 
But don't think I regret it , and don't think I want to push myself above my place . 
This breeze and the ebb are taking the old ship finely along her ways . 
See those fire baskets on the harbour forts ? We're abreast of them now . 
We'll have dropped them and the city out of sight by daylight , and the flood will not begin to run up till then . 
But I fear unless the wind hardens down with the dawn we'll have to bring up to an anchor when the flood makes . 
Tides run very hard in these narrow seas . 
Aye , and there are some shrewdish tide rips round my Tin Islands , as you shall see when we reach them . 
There were many fearful glances backwards when day came and showed the waters , and the burning mountains that hemmed them in beyond the shores . 
However , their brave heroics were displayed to no small purpose . 
Tob's woman must needs bring drink on deck , and bid all pour libations to her as a future queen . 
But Tob cuffed her back into the after castle , slamming to the hatch behind her heels , and bidding the crew send the liquor down their dusty throats . 
We are done with that foolery , said he . 
Beneath which I read a regret , but said nothing , having made my plans from the moment of stepping on board , as will appear on a later sheet . 
It is the usual custom in these voyages . 
And I shall do it still , subject to my lord's better opinion . 
So here , having by this time completed a two months' leisurely journey from the city , I saw my opportunity to speak what I had always carried in my mind . 
Aye , he grunted , you are very weak , my lord , and mighty defenceless . 
We know all about that . 
But what's else ? You must tell all your meaning plain . 
I'm a common mariner , and understand little of your fancy talk . 
That it is not my wish to leave the continent of Atlantis . 
If you will put me down on any part of this side that faces Europe , I will commend you strongly to the Gods . 
articles that would be useful to you in your colonising but as it is , you see me destitute . 
As to that , you owe me nothing , having done vastly more than your share each time we have put in shore for the hunting . 
But it will not do , this plan of yours . 
I will shamedly confess that the sound of that kingship in my Tin Islands sounds sweet to me . 
But no , my lord , it will not do . 
We of the Priests' Clan have some education , Tob , though it may not be on the same lines as your own . 
In fact , I may say I was taught in the colleges concerning the boundaries and the contents of our continent with a nicety that would surprise you . 
And once ashore , my fate will still be under the control of the most High Gods . 
, and on the third day after our talk he put the ship inshore again for re victualling . 
Fish spearing and meat hunting were set about with promptitude , and on the second day we were happy enough to slay a yearling river horse , which gave provisions in all sufficiency . 
At least , said Tob , we'll carry your memory with us , and make it big in the Tin Islands for everlasting . 
Forget me , I said , I am nothing . 
I am merely an incident that has come in your way . 
And afterwards , when your colony grows in power , and has come to sufficient magnificence , you may send to the old country for a priest . 
We want no priest , except one we shall make ourselves , and that will be me . 
And as for the old Gods well , I have laid my ideas before the fellows here , and they agree to this We are done with those old Gods for always . 
They seem worn out , if one may judge from Their present lack of usefulness in Atlantis , and , anyway , there will be no room for Them on the Tin Islands . 
Let go those warps there aft , and shove her head out . 
We are under weigh now , my lord , and beyond recall , and so I am free to tell you what we have decided upon for our religious exercises . 
We shall set up the memory of a living Hero on earth , and worship that . 
Let me plead with you , I said . 
The ship was drifting rapidly away with the current , and they were hoisting sail . 
Tob had to shout to make himself heard . 
Aye , but it shall be . 
For I , too , am a strong man after my kind , and I have ordered it so . 
And if you want the name of our Hero that some day shall be God , you wear it on yourself . 
Deucalion shall be God for our children . 
This is blasphemy , I cried . 
Have a care , fool , or this impiety will sink you . 
We will risk it , he bawled back , and consider the odds against us are small . 
Regard ! Here is thy last horn of wine in the ship , and my woman has treasured it against this moment . 
Solitary I stood at the brink of the forest , looking after them and musing sadly . 
Tob , despite his lowly station , was a man I cared for more than many . 
Like all seamen , I knew that he paid his devotions to one of the obscurer Gods , but till then I had supposed him devout in his worship . 
His new avowal came to me as a desolating shock . 
I had to let Tob and his ship go out over the rim of the horizon unwatched . 
To the educated , many of these legends are known to be mythical but withal there are enough disquietudes remaining to make life very arduous and stocked with peril . 
Yet with all this , there are great sombre forests in these lands , with trees whose age is unimaginable , and fires amongst the herbage are rare . 
All beneath the trees is water , and the air is full of warm steam and wetness . 
For a man to live in that constant hot damp is very mortifying to the strength . 
There are countless families and species of these lizards , and with some of them a man can contend with prospect of success . 
But there are others whose hugeness no human force can battle against . 
One I saw , as it came up out of a lake after gaining its day's food , that made the wet land shake and pulse as it trod . 
It could have taken Phorenice's mammoth into its belly , and even a mammoth in full charge could not have harmed it . 
TRANSLATOR'S NOTE Professor Reeder of the Wyoming State University has recently unearthed the skeleton of a Brontosaurus , ft . 
in length , which would have weighed tons when alive . 
in height at the hips , and ft . 
at the shoulder , and people could be seated with comfort within its ribs . 
Its thigh bone was ft . 
The fossils of a whole series of these colossal lizards have been found . 
Now and again these monsters would get caught in some vast fissuring of the ground , but not often . 
Their speed of foot was great , and their sagacity keen . 
They seemed to know when the worst boilings of the mountains might be expected , and then they found safety in the deeper lakes , or buried themselves in wallows of the mud . 
Moreover , they were more kindly constituted than man to withstand one great danger of these regions , in that the heat of the water did them no harm . 
In the midst of such neighbours , then , was my new life thrown , and existence became perilous and hard to me from the outset . 
As example I found a great black tree , with a hollow core , and a hole into its middle near the roots . 
But the lack of salads and gruels I could never overcome . 
All the green meat was tainted so powerfully with the taste of tars that never could I force my palate to accept it . 
And of course , too , there remained the peril of the greater lizards and the other dangers native to the place . 
But as the months began to mount into years , and the brute part of my nature became more satisfied , there came other longings which it was less easy to provide for . 
From the ivory of a river horse's tooth I had endeavoured to carve me a representative of Nais as last I had seen her . 
But for myself I could not free my mind to the necessary clearness for following these abstruse studies . 
During that voyage home from Yucatan I had communed with them with growing insight but now my mind was not my own . 
Nais had a lien upon it , and refused to be ousted and , in truth , her sweet trespass was my chief solace . 
But at last my longing could no further be denied . 
Night after night I used to watch that ruddy light with wide straining eyes . 
So at last I gave way and set out , and a perilous journey I made of it . 
In the heavy mists , which hung always on the lower ground , my way lay blind before me , and I was constantly losing it . 
Indeed , to say that I traversed three times the direct distance is setting a low estimate . 
But the High Gods still desired me for Their own purposes , and blinded the great beasts' eyes when I slunk to cover as they passed . 
It will be seen then that my journey was in a way infinitely tedious , but to me , after all those years of waiting , the time passed on winged feet . 
But at last I reached the crest , and gave thanks to the most High Gods for Their protection and favour . 
Gods ! how my love burned within me for this woman . 
My whole being seemed gone out to meet her , and to leave room for nothing beside . 
For long enough a voice seemed dimly to be calling me , but I gave it no regard . 
I had come out to that hoary mountain top for communion with Nais alone , and I wanted none others to interrupt . 
I gripped my weapon and asked who called . 
The reply came clearly from up the slopes of mountain , and I saw a man coming towards me over the snows . 
He was old and feeble . 
His body was bent , and his hair and beard were white as the ground on which he trod , and presently I recognised him as Zaemon . 
He came close to me and made the sign of the Seven , which I returned to him , with its completion , with due form and ceremony . 
In all things I will obey the orders that you put before me , I said . 
Such is your duty , my brother . 
The woman Phorenice persists in her infamies . 
The poor land groans under her heel . 
And now she has laid siege to our Sacred Mountain itself , and swears that not one soul shall be left alive in all Atlantis who does not bend humbly to her will . 
It is a command and I obey it . 
But let me ask of another matter that is intimate to both of us . 
What of Nais ? Nais rests where you left her , untouched . 
Little she knows the sternness of our Priests' creed , my brother . 
Why , even I , that am the girl's father , would sacrifice her blithely , if her death or ruin might do a tittle of good to Atlantis . 
You go beyond me with your devotion . 
The old man leaned forward at me , with glowering brow . 
What ! Or my old blind adherence to the ancient dogma has been sapped and weakened by events . 
You must buy my full obedience , Zaemon , if you want it . 
Zaemon looked at me bitterly . 
And you are the man the High Council thought to trust as they would trust one of themselves ? Truly we are in an age of weak men and faithless now . 
But this is the age of broken vows , and you are going no more than trim with the fashion . 
Indeed , brother , perhaps I should thank you for being no more greedy in your demands . 
You may spare me your taunts . 
Rather you would have done the generalling yourself . 
You make a warm defence , my brother . 
But I have no leisure now to stand before you with argument . 
Come to the Sacred Mountain , fight me this wanton , upstart Empress , and by my beard you shall have your Nais as you left her as a reward . 
It is a command of the High Council which shall be obeyed . 
I will come with my brother now , as soon as he is rested . 
Nay , said the old man , I have no tiredness , and as for coming with me , there you will not be able . 
But follow at what pace you may . 
For his footmarks in the snow from being deep , grew shallower , and less noticeable , so that I had to stoop to see them . 
And presently they vanished entirely , and the great mountain's flank lay before me trackless , and untrodden by the foot of man since time began . 
I was not shaken by any great amazement . 
I had his promise now for my reward , and I knew that he would carry it into effect . 
Beforetime I had made an error . 
I had valued Atlantis most , and Nais , my private love , as only second . 
But now it was in my mind to be honest with others even as with myself . 
Though all the world were hanging on my choice , I could but love my Nais most , and serve her first and foremost of all . 
SIEGE OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN Now , my passage across the great continent of Atlantis , if tedious and haunted by many dangers , need not be recounted in detail here . 
Only one halt did I make of any duration , and that was unavoidable . 
I had killed a stag one day , bringing it down after a long chase in an open savannah . 
With the fall of darkness I managed to haul myself up into a tree , and there abode in the crutch of a limb , in wakefulness and pain throughout the night . 
But still I pressed onwards with my journey , my last instinct being to obey the command of the High Council , and so procure the enlargement of Nais as had been promised . 
My last memory was of being met by someone in the black forest who aided me , and there my waking senses took wings into forgetfulness . 
How came I here ? I asked . 
I brought you , said she . 
In return I receive what each can afford , and if they do not pay according to their means , I clap on a curse to make them wither . 
It's a lean enough living when wars and the pestilence have left so few poor folk to live in the land . 
Do you visit Atlantis ? Not I. Phorenice would have me boiled in brine , living , if she could lay easy hands on me . 
Our dainty Empress tolerates no magic but her own . 
They say she is for pulling down the Priests off their Mountain now . 
So you do get news of the city ? Assuredly . 
Tell me then Phorenice still reigns ? Most vilely . 
As a maiden ? As the mother of twin sons . 
Tatho's her husband now , and has been these three years . 
Tatho ! Who followed him as viceroy of Yucatan ? There is no Yucatan . 
A vast nation of little hairy men , so the tale goes , coming from the West overran the country . 
They had clubs of wood tipped with stone as their only arm , but numbers made their chief weapon . 
They had no desire for plunder , or the taking of slaves , or the conquering of cities . 
To eat the flesh of Atlanteans was their only lust , and they followed it prodigiously . 
Their numbers were like the bees in a swarm . 
They came to each of the cities of Yucatan in turn , and though the colonists slew them in thousands , the weight of numbers always prevailed . 
They ate clean each city they took , and left it to the beasts of the forest , and went on to the next . 
And so in time they reached the coast towns , and Tatho and the few that survived took ship , and sailed home . 
They even ate Tatho's wife for him . 
They must be curious persevering things , these little hairy men . 
The Gods send they do not get across the seas to Atlantis , or they would be worse plague to the poor country than Phorenice . 
Also I had learned that on occasion , when punishment was needful , they could be set loose as a devastating army upon men , devouring all before them . 
What about Egypt ? I asked . 
In its accustomed darkness , so they say . 
But now they never come near unless they see a way of getting good value in return for their gifts . 
And , by result , instead of living fat and hearty , I make lean meals off honey and grubs . 
It's a poor life , a nymph's , in these latter years I tell you , my lord . 
It's the fashion for all classes to believe in no kind of mystery now . 
What manner of pestilence is this you spoke of ? I have not seen it . 
Thank the Gods it has not come this way . 
But they do say that it has grown from the folk Phorenice has slain , and whose bodies remain unburied . 
She is always slaying , and so the bodies lie thicker than the birds and beasts can eat them . 
They say she has put an image of herself in all the temples of the city now , and has ordered prayers and sacrifices to be made night and morning . 
Will you eat of my grubs and honey ? There is nothing else . 
Your back was bloody with carrying meat when I met you , but you had lost your load . 
You must either taste this mess of mine now , or go without . 
The houses were perched in trees for the most part , as there they were out of reach of cave bear and cave tiger and the other more dangerous beasts . 
But not one in ten of these outlying settlers remained . 
Phorenice's influence seemed to have spread as though it were some horrid blight over the whole face of what was once a smiling and an easy living land . 
So far I had met with little enough interference from any men I had come across . 
But as I neared the city , and began to come upon muddy beaten paths , I passed through governments that were more thickly populated , and here appeared strong chance of delay . 
Everywhere evidences showed that the country had been drained of its fighting men . 
An army was investing the sacred Mountain , and its one approach was most narrowly guarded . 
Force would be useless here . 
I should have one good fight a gorgeous fight one man against an army , and my usefulness would be ended . 
No this was the occasion for guile , and I found covert in the outskirts of a wood , and lay there cudgelling my brain for a plan . 
Across the plain before me lay the grim great walls of the city , with the heads of its temples , and its palaces , and its pyramids showing beyond . 
The step sides of the royal pyramid held my eye . 
Phorenice had expended some of her new found store of gold in overlaying their former whiteness with sheets of shining yellow metal . 
But it was not that change that moved me . 
You need not threaten me with your weapons , he cried . 
It seems that you are Deucalion though I should not have known you myself in those rags and skins , and behind that tangle of hair and beard . 
You will give me your good word I know . 
Believe me , I have not loitered unduly . 
He was a lower priest whom I knew , and held in little esteem his name was Ro , a greedy fellow and not overworthy of trust . 
From whom do you come ? I asked . 
Zaemon laid a command on me . 
He came to my house , though how he got there I cannot tell , seeing that Phorenice's army blocks all possible passage to and from the Mountain . 
I told him I wished to be mixed with none of his schemings . 
I am a peaceful man , Deucalion , and have taken a wife who requires nourishment . 
I still serve in the same temple , though we have swept out the old Gods by order of the Empress , and put her image in their place . 
The people are tidily pious nowadays , those that are left of them , and the living is consequently easy . 
Yes , I tell you there are far more offerings now than there were in the old days . 
And so I had no wish to be mixed with matters which might well make me be deprived of a snug post , and my head to boot . 
I can believe it all of you , Ro . 
But there was no denying Zaemon . 
He burst into one of his black furies , and while he spoke at me , I tell you I felt as good as dead . 
You know his powers ? I have seen some of them . 
Well , the Gods alone know which are the true Gods , and which are the others . 
I serve the one that gives me employment . 
But those that Zaemon serves give him power , and that's beyond denying . 
You see that right hand of mine ? It is dead and paralysed from the wrist , and that is a gift of Zaemon . 
He bestowed it , he said , to make me collect my attention . 
If Zaemon said those words , he meant them . 
So you accepted the alternative ? Had I , with a wife depending on me , any other choice ? I asked his pleasure . 
It was to find you when you came in here from some distant part of the land , and deliver to you his message . 
'Then tell me where is the meeting place , said I , 'and when . 
'There is none appointed , nor is the day fixed , said he . 
'You must watch and search always for him . 
But when he comes , you will be guided to his place . 
Well , Deucalion , I think I was guided , but how , I do not know . 
It's an awful thing for a man to be forced to go through life like this , for no real fault of his own . 
And Zaemon could cure it from where he sat , if he was so minded . 
You seem still to have a very full faith in some of the old Gods' priests , I said . 
But so far , I do not see that your errand is done . 
I have had no message yet . 
Why , the message is so simple that I do not see why he could not have got some one else to carry it . 
You are to make a great blaze . 
You may fire the grasses of the plain in front of this wood if you choose . 
It seems easy , and I thank you for your pains . 
I will ask Zaemon that your hand may be restored to you . 
You shall have my prayers if it is . 
And look , Deucalion , it is a small matter , and it would be less likely to slip your memory if you saw to it at once on your landing . 
Later , you may be disturbed . 
Phorenice is bound to pull you down off your perch up there now she has made her mind to it . 
She never fails , once she has set her hand to a thing . 
Indeed , if she was no Goddess at birth , she is making herself into one very rapidly . 
She has got all the ancient learning of our Priests , and more besides . 
She has discovered the Secret of Life these recent months She has found that ? I cried , fairly startled . 
How ? Tell me how ? Only the Three know that . 
It is beyond our knowledge even who are members of the Seven . 
I know nothing of her means . 
But she has the secret , and now she is as good an immortal as any of them . 
Well , Deucalion , it is dangerous for me to be missing from my temple overlong , so I will go . 
You will carry that matter we spoke of in your mind ? It means much to me . 
His eye wandered over my ragged person And if you think my service is of value to you You see me poor , my man , and practically destitute . 
Some small coin , he murmured , or even a link of bronze ? I am at great expense just now buying nourishment for my wife . 
Well , if you have nothing , you cannot give . 
So I'll just bid you farewell . 
He took himself off then , and I was not sorry . 
I had never liked Ro . 
But I wasted no more precious time then . 
There was no rope dangling , but presently one came down the smooth cliff face like some slender snake . 
I made a loop , slipped it over a leg , and pulled hard as a signal . 
Those above began to haul , and so I went back to the Sacred Mountain after an absence of so many toilsome and warring years . 
There were none to disturb the ascent . 
Phorenice's troops had no thought to guard that gaunt , bare , seamless precipice . 
But I put no question . 
With us of the Priests' Clan on the Sacred Mountain , it is always taken as granted that when an order is given , it is given for the best . 
Besides , these priests did not offer themselves to question . 
They took me off at once to Zaemon , and that is what I could have wished . 
The old man greeted me with the royal sign . 
All hail to Deucalion , he cried , King of Atlantis , duly called thereto by the High Council of the priests . 
Is Phorenice dead ? I asked . 
It remains for you to slay her , and take your kingdom , if , indeed , when all is done , there remains a man or a rood of land to govern . 
You are one of the highest Three I am only one of the Seven you best know the cost . 
There can be no counting the cost now , my brother , and my king . 
It is an order , I repeated formally , so I obey . 
If it were not impious to do so , it would be easy to justify this decision of the Gods . 
The woman has usurped the throne yet she was forgiven and bidden rule on wisely . 
She has tampered with our holy religion yet she was forgiven . 
She has killed the peoples of Atlantis in greedy useless wars , and destroyed the country's trade yet she was forgiven . 
She has desecrated the old temples , and latterly has set up in them images of herself to be worshipped as a deity yet she was forgiven . 
But at last her evil cleverness has discovered to her the tremendous Secret of Life and Death , and there she overstepped the boundary of the High Gods' forbearance . 
I myself went to carry a final warning , and once more faced her in the great banqueting hall . 
Solemnly I recited to her the edict , and she chose to take it as a challenge . 
She would live on eternally herself and she would share her knowledge with those that pleased her . 
Tatho that was her husband should also be immortal . 
Indeed , if she thought fit , she would cry the secret aloud so that even the common people might know it , and death from mere age would become a legend . 
She cared no wit how she might upset the laws of Nature . 
She was Phorenice , and was the highest law of all . 
And finally she defied me there in that banqueting hall and defied also the High Gods that stood behind my mouth . 
'My magic is as strong as yours , you pompous fool , she cried , 'and presently you shall see the two stand side by side upon their trial . 
She began to collect an army from that moment , and we on our part made our preparations . 
It was discovered by our arts that you still lived , and King of Atlantis you were made by solemn election . 
Then being King , I can speak without seeming to make use of a threat . 
I must have my Queen first , or I am not strong enough to give my whole mind to this ruling . 
She shall be brought here . 
So ! Then I will be a General now , and see to the defences of this place , and view the men who are here to stand behind them . 
I went out of the dwelling then , Zaemon giving place and following me . 
It was night still but there is no darkness on the upper part of the Sacred Mountain . 
Indeed , it is said that , in the early dawn of history , men first came to the Mountain as a stronghold because of the natural defence which the fires offered . 
There is no bridging these flames or smothering them . 
On either side of their line for a hundred paces the ground glows with heat , and a man would be turned to ash who tried to cross it . 
But it is on this farther side that there is the only entrance way which gives passage to the crest of the Sacred Mountain from below . 
have made more easy to climb . 
Looking at the additions , in the ancient days , I can well imagine that none but the most daring could have made the ascent . 
But always when these improvers made smooth the obstacles , they were careful to weaken in no possible way the natural defences but rather to add to them . 
But though there were eight of these granite gates in the series , we had the whole number to depend on no longer . 
The lowest gate was held by a garrison of Phorenice's troops , who had built a wall above them to protect their occupation . 
And here lay the keynote of the weakness in our defence . 
The most perfect ramparts that brain can invent are useless without men to line them , and it was men we lacked . 
Of students entering into the colleges of the Sacred Mountain , there had been none now for many a year . 
The younger generation thought little of the older Gods . 
Phorenice was no fool to fight against unnecessary strength . 
And so great was the prestige of her name , that quite one half of these that remained on the mountain took themselves away from the defence . 
There was no attempt to hold back these sorry priests , nor was there any punishing them as they went . 
to give them some memento of their apostasy to carry away which would not wear out , but the others of the High Council made him stay his vengeful hand . 
Another of the wise precautions of the men of old stood us in good stead then . 
In the ancient times , when grain first was grown as food , it came to be looked upon as the acme of wealth . 
And those of the people who had it not , were forced to barter their other produce for grain before they could pay this tribute . 
But as it was , the old constitution had happily been preserved , and now in these years of trial the Clan reaped the benefit . 
But it was the paucity of men for the defence which oppressed me most . 
As I took my way about the head of the Mountain , inspecting all points , the emptiness of the place smote me like a succession of blows . 
The groves , once so trim , were now shaggy and unpruned . 
Wind had whirled the leaves in upon the temple floors , and they lay there unswept . 
The college of youths held no more now than a musty smell to bear witness that men had once been grown there . 
Evil thoughts surged up within me as I saw these things , that were direct promptings from the nether Gods . 
There must be something wanting , these tempters whispered , in a religion from which so many of its Priests fled at the first pinch of persecution . 
But this should not be done till Phorenice was dead and I was firmly planted in her room . 
I would not be a party , even to myself , to any plan which smacked at all of surrender . 
At that moment from His distant resting place in the East , our Lord the Sun leaped up to begin another day . 
For long enough from where I stood below the crest of the Mountain , He Himself would be invisible . 
For anyone unauthorised to go nearer than a thousand paces to this storehouse of the Highest Mysteries meant instant death . 
Only those who had been raised to the sublime elevation of the Three had a knowledge of the dreadful powers which were stored within it . 
Old Zaemon followed my gaze . 
Ay , he said with a sigh , I know where your chief interest is . 
Deucalion when he landed here new from Yucatan was a strong man . 
The King whom we have chosen and who is the best we have to choose has his weakness . 
It can be turned into additional strength . 
Give me Nais here , living and warm to fight for , and I am a stronger man by far than the cold viceroy and soldier that you speak about . 
I have passed my word to that already , and you shall have her , but at the cost of damaging somewhat this new kingdom of yours . 
Maybe too at the same time we may rid you of this Phorenice and her brood . 
But I do not think it likely . 
The High Gods , who have sent all these trials for our refinement , have seen fit to give her some knowledge of how these earth tremors may be set a moving . 
I have seen her juggle with them . 
But may I hear your scheme ? It will be shown you in good time enough . 
But for the present I would bid you sleep . 
when she is set free , and bring her here as best you can . 
And for that you will need all a strong man's strength . 
He stepped back , and looked me up and down . 
There are not many folk that would take you for the tidy clean chinned Deucalion now , my brother . 
Your appearance will be a fine armour for you down yonder in the city to night when we wake it with our earth shaking and terror . 
As you stand now , you are hairy enough , and shaggy enough , and naked enough , and dirty enough for some wild savage new landed out of Europe . 
Have a care that no fine citizen down yonder takes a fancy to your thews , and seizes upon you as his servant . 
I somewhat pity him in his household if he does . 
Why , come to think of it , so do I. But quickly he got grave again . 
Laughter and Zaemon were very rare playmates . 
It is no light business to handle the tremendous powers which we must put into movement this night . 
And there is danger for us as there is for you . 
So if by chance we do not meet again till we stand up yonder behind the stars , giving account to the Gods , fare you well , Deucalion . 
I slept that day as a soldier sleeps , taking full rest out of the hours , and letting no harassing thought disturb me . 
It is only the weak who permit their sleep to be broken on these occasions . 
And when the dark was well set , I roused and fetched those who should attend to the rope . 
Our Lady the Moon did not shine at that turn of the month and the air was full of a great blackness . 
So I was out of sight all the while they lowered me . 
I had no mind to further stir their wakefulness . 
The lamp was in place , and I made my way along the windings swiftly . 
In olden times the Priests' Clan oversaw all the architects' plans , and ruled out anything likely to clash with their secret passages and chambers . 
I came out without being seen , careful even in this moment of extremity to preserve the ordinances , and closed all traces of exit behind me . 
I ran madly down and down the narrow winding streets with the one thought of coming to the square which lay in front of the royal pyramid before these things came to pass . 
Few disturbed that furious hurry . 
At first here and there some wretch who harboured in the gutter cried A thief ! Throw a share or I pursue . 
But if any of these followed , I do not know . 
At any rate , my speed then must have out distanced anyone . 
But none of these had a mind to stop the ragged , shaggy , savage man who ran so swiftly past , and flung the mud from his naked feet . 
And so in time I came to the great square , and was there none too soon . 
The place was filling with people who flocked away from the narrow streets , and it was full of darkness , and noise , and dust , and sickness . 
Beneath us the ground rippled in undulations like a sea , which with terrifying slowness grew more and more intense . 
Ever and again a house crashed down unseen in the gloom , and added to the tumult . 
But the great pyramid had been planned by its old builders to stand rude shocks . 
Its stones were dovetailed into one another with a marvellous cleverness , and were further clamped and joined by ponderous tongues of metal . 
It was a boast that one half the foundations could be dug from beneath it , and still the pyramid would stand four square under heaven , more enduring than the hills . 
Flickering torches showed that its great stone doors lay open , and ever and again I saw some frightened inmate scurry out and then be lost to sight in the gloom . 
There was method in Zaemon's desperate work , and this in my blind panic of love and haste , I had overlooked . 
So I went up the steps of the throne on the side from which the great capstone was moving , and clung there afire with expectation . 
The people who kept thronging into the square were mad with terror , but their very numbers made my case more desperate every moment . 
It was a curious criticism on the balance of their real religion , if one had cared to make it . 
And now too the great pyramid itself was commencing to split , and gape , and topple . 
The roofs of its splendid chambers gave way , and the ponderous masonry above shuttered down and filled them . 
In part , too , one could see the destruction now , and not guess at it merely from the fearful hearings of the darkness . 
Thunders had begun to roar through the black night above , and add their bellowings to this devil's orchestration of uproar , and vivid lightning splashes lit the flying dust clouds . 
She had taken her place in the middle of a great flagstone , and stood there swaying her supple body to the shocks . 
Her face was calm , and its loveliness was untouched by the years . 
From time to time she brushed away the dust as it settled on the short red hair which curled about her neck . 
There was no trace of fear written upon her face . 
There was some weariness , some contempt , and I think a tinge of amusement . 
Yes , it took more than the crumbling of her royal pyramid to impress Phorenice with the infinite powers of those she warred against . 
Gods ! How the sight of her cool indifference maddened me then . 
I had it in me to have strangled her with my hands if she had come within my reach . 
With each shock the great capstone of the throne to which I clung jarred farther and farther from its bed place , and my love was coming nearer to me . 
It was she who claimed all my service then . 
Once in their blind panic a knot of the people in the square thought that the granite stone was too solid to be overturned , and saw in it an oasis of safety . 
They flocked towards it , many of them dragging themselves up the steep deep high steps on hands and knees because their feet had been injured by the billowing flagstones of the square . 
They asked me what was my title to the place above their own , and I answered them with blows and gnashing teeth . 
I was careless as to what they thought me or who they thought me . 
Only I wished them gone . 
And so they went , wailing and crying that I was a devil of the night , for they had no spirit left to defend themselves . 
Farther and farther the great stone that made the top of the throne slid out from its bed , but its slowness of movement maddened me . 
A life's education left me in that moment , and I had no trace of stately patience left . 
All was being ordered by the Three who were Their trusted servants , in Their good time . 
The work of the Gods may be done slowly , but it is done exceeding sure . 
, what had been threatened came to pass . 
The capstone of the throne slid out till it reached the balance , and the next shock threw it with a roar and a clatter to the ground . 
And then a strange tremor seized me . 
I knew Phorenice's vengefulness , and had a high value for her cleverness . 
left the corpse for my finding ? I could not tell I dared not guess . 
Never during a whole hard fighting life have my emotions been so wrenched as they were at that moment . 
And , for excuse , it must be owned that love for Nais had sapped my hardihood over a matter in which she was so privately concerned . 
So I took my fortitude in hand , and clambered up on to the flat of the stone . 
So changed was I for the moment , that I will finely confess that the idea of a fight was loathsome to me then . 
I wanted to have my business done and get gone from the place . 
An exultation began to whirl within me . 
Still the earth shook beneath us , and masonry roared and crashed into ruin . 
I had to cling to my place with one hand , whilst I unhasped the clamps of metal that made the top of her prison with the other . 
But at last I swung the upper half of them clear , and those which pinned down her feet I let remain . 
I stooped and drew her soft body up on to the flat of the stone beside me , and pressed my lips a hundred times to the face I could not see . 
Some mad thought took me , I believe , that the mere fierceness and heat of my kisses would bring her back again to life and wakefulness . 
Indeed I will own plainly , that I did but sorry credit to my training in calmness that night . 
But she lay in my arms cold and nerveless as a corpse , and by degrees my sober wits returned to me . 
This was no place for either of us . 
, let daylight come , and let a few of these nerveless people round recover from their panic , and all the great cost that had been expended might be counted as waste . 
Tell of fright ? By the Gods ! I was scared as the veriest trembler who blundered amongst the dust clouds that night when the thought came to me . 
But I had heard shouts from that frightened mob which came to me through the din and the darkness , that gave another idea for escape . 
The city is accursed , they had cried if we stay here it will fall on us . 
Let us get outside the walls where there are no buildings to bury us . 
If they went , I could not see . 
But one gate lay nearest to the royal pyramid , and I judged that in their panic they would not go farther than was needful . 
and blundered off as best I could through the stifling darkness . 
There was no difficulty about passing the gate . 
The Gods had driven their plough through it , and it lay flat , and proud Atlantis stood as defenceless as the open country . 
But this was only a passing regret , a mere touch of the fighting man's pride . 
I had a different love now , that had wrapped herself round me far deeper and more tightly , and my duty was towards her first and foremost . 
The night would soon be past , and then dangers would increase . 
None had interfered with us so far , though many had jostled us as I clambered over the ruins but this forbearance could not be reckoned upon for long . 
The earth tremors had almost died away , and after the panic and the storm , then comes the time for the spoiling . 
Now came what was the keenest anxiety of all . 
We took the girl and laid her on a bed in one of the houses , and there in the lit room for the first time I saw her clearly . 
Her beauty was drawn and pale . 
Her eyes were closed , but so thin and transparent had grown the lids that one could almost see the brown of the pupil beneath them . 
Her hair had grown to inordinate thickness and length , and lay as a cushion behind and beside her head . 
There was no flicker of breath there was none of that pulsing of the body which denotes life but still she had not the appearance of ordinary death . 
The Nais I had placed nine long years before to rest in the hollow of the stone , was a fine grown woman , full bosomed , and well boned . 
The Nais that remained for me was half her weight . 
The old Nais it would have puzzled me to carry for an hour this was no burden to impede a grown man . 
In other ways too she had altered . 
Her clay cold lips were so white , that one sighed to remember the full beauty of their carmine . 
Her shoulders and neck had lost their comely curves , and made bony hollows now in which the dust of entombment lodged black and thickly . 
Reverently I set about preparing those things which if all went well should restore her . 
I heated water and filled a bath , and tinctured it heavily with those essences of the life of beasts which the Priests extract and store against times of urgent need and sickness . 
I laid her chin deep in this bath , and sat beside it to watch , maintaining that bath at a constant blood heat . 
An hour I watched two hours I watched three hours and yet she showed no flicker of life . 
The heat of her body given her by the bath , was the same as the heat of my own . 
But in the feel of her skin when I stroked it with my hand , there was something lacking still . 
From without , came the din of fighting . 
Already Phorenice had sent her troops to storm the passageway , and the Priests who defended it were shattering them with volleys of rocks . 
But these sounds of war woke no pulse within me . 
If Nais did not wake , then the world for me was ended , and I had no spirit left to care who remained uppermost . 
The Gods in Their due time will doubtless smite me for this impiety . 
But I make a confession of it here on these sheets , having no mind to conceal any portion of this history for the small reason that it does me a personal discredit . 
I watched on with staring eyes , rubbing her wasted body now and again , and always keeping the heat of the bath at a constant . 
From the first I had barred the door against all who would have come near to help me . 
With my own hands I had laid my love to sleep , and I could not bear that others should rouse her , if indeed roused she should ever be . 
But after those first offers , no others came , and the snarl and din of fighting told of what occupied them . 
For of a sudden , as I gazed , I saw a faint rippling on the surface of the water of the bath . 
No , she lay there still without even a flutter of movement . 
But as I watched , surely it seemed to my aching eyes that some tinge was beginning to warm that blank whiteness of skin ? How I filled myself with that sight . 
The colour was returning to her again beyond a doubt . 
Once more the dried blood was becoming fluid and beginning again to course in its old channels . 
She had slept for nine long years , and I knew that the wakening could be none of the suddenest . 
Indeed , it came by its own gradations and with infinite slowness , and I did not dare do more to hasten it . 
Further drugs might very well stop eternally what those which had been used already had begun . 
So I sat motionless where I was , and watched the colour come back , and the waxenness go , and even the fullness of her curves in some small measure return . 
Still further , too , was I wrung by a torment of doubt as to whether life or these rackings would in the end be conqueror . 
After each paroxysm the colour ebbed back from her again , and for a while she would lie motionless . 
But strength and power seemed gradually to grow , and at last these prevailed , and drove death and sleep beneath them . 
Her eyelids struggled with their fastenings . 
Her lips parted , and her bosom heaved . 
With shivering gasps her breath began to pant between her reddening lips . 
At first it rattled dryly in her throat , but soon it softened and became more regular . 
And then with a last effort her eyes , her glorious loving eyes , slowly opened . 
I leaned over and called her softly by name . 
Her eyes met mine , and a glow arose from their depths that gave me the greatest joy I have met in all the world . 
Deucalion , my love , she whispered . 
Oh , my dear , so you have come for me . 
How I have dreamed of you ! How I have been racked ! But it was worth it all for this . 
STORM OF THE SACRED MOUNTAIN It was Nais herself who sent me to attend to my sterner duties . 
The din of the attack came to us in the house where I was tending her , and she asked its meaning . 
As pithily as might be , for she was in no condition for tedious listening , I gave her the history of her nine years' sleep . 
The colour flushed more to her face . 
My lord is the properest man in all the world to be King , she whispered . 
I refused to touch the trade till they had given me the Queen I desired , safe and alive , here upon the Mountain . 
How we poor women are made the chattels of you men ! But , for myself , I seem to like the traffic well enough . 
You should not have let me stand in the way of Atlantis' good , Deucalion . 
Still , it is very sweet to know you were weak there for once , and that I was the cause of your weakness . 
What is that bath over yonder ? Ah ! I remember my wits seem none of the clearest just now . 
You have made the beginning . 
Your strength will return to you by quick degrees . 
But it will not bear hurrying . 
You must have a patience . 
Your ear , sir , for one moment , and then I will rest in peace . 
My poor looks , are they all gone ? You seem to have no mirror here . 
I had visions that I should wake up wrinkled and old . 
You are as you were , dear , that first night I saw you the most beautiful woman in all the world . 
I am pleased you like me , she said , and took the cup of broth I offered her . 
My hair seems to have grown but it needs combing sadly . 
I had a fancy , dear , once , that you liked ruddy hair best , and not a plain brown . 
She closed her eyes then , lying back amongst the cushions where I had placed her , and dropped off into healthy sleep , with the smiles still playing upon her lips . 
I put the coverlet over her , and kissed her lightly , holding back my beard lest it should sweep her cheek . 
And then I went out of the chamber . 
A change of robe also I found there and took it instead of my squalid rags . 
If a man is in truth a king , he owes these things to the dignity of his office . 
But , if the din of the fighting was any guide , mine was a narrowing kingdom . 
And , indeed , it was scarcely to be marvelled at . 
Defences of stone , cunningly planned and mightily built , it still possessed , but these will not fight alone . 
They need men to line them , and , moreover , abundance of men . 
The slaughter , as it turned out , had been prodigious . 
But Phorenice stood on a spur of the rock below them urging on the charges , and with an insane valour company after company marched up to hurl themselves hopelessly against the defences . 
Company after company of the troops marched into this terrible death trap , and not a man of all of them ever came back . 
Nor was it Phorenice's policy that they should do so . 
It was no part of Phorenice's mood ever to count the cost . 
She set down the object which was to be gained , and it was her policy that the people of Atlantis were there to gain it for her . 
Two gates then had she carried in this dreadful fashion , slaughtering those Priests that stood behind , them who had not been already shot down . 
And here I came down from above to take my share in the fight . 
It was clear that the name carried to the other side and bore weight with it . 
A company of poor , doomed wretches who were hurrying up stopped in their charge . 
The word Deucalion ! was bandied round and handed back down the line . 
I though with some grim satisfaction , that here was evidence I was not completely forgotten in the land . 
From where I stood on the high rampart above the gate , I could see him plainly , and recognised him at once . 
It matters not what they use for their battle cry , he was shouting . 
You have the orders of your divine Empress , and that is enough . 
You should be proud to die for her wish , you cowards . 
And if you do not obey , you will die afterwards under the instruments of the tormentors , very painfully . 
As for Deucalion , he is dead any time these nine years . 
There it seems you lie , my Lord Tatho , I shouted down to him . 
He started , and looked up at me . 
So you are there in real truth , then ? Well , old comrade , I am sorry . 
But it is too late to make a composition now . 
You are on the side of these mangy Priests , and the Empress has made an edict that they are to be rooted out , and I am her most obedient servant . 
You used to be skilful of fence , I said , and indeed there was little enough to choose between us . 
It would be a grand fight between us two , old friend , and it goes hard with me to balk you of it . 
But I cannot pleasure you . 
I am general here under Phorenice , and she has given me the strongest orders not to peril myself . 
And besides , though you are a great man , Deucalion , you are not chief . 
You are not even one of the Three . 
Few but yourself would say so , my lord . 
Few truly , but what there are , they are powerful . 
I was given the name for the first time yesterday , and as a first blow in the campaign there was some mischief done in the city . 
I was there myself , and saw how you took it . 
You were in Atlantis ! I went for Nais . 
She is on the mountain now , and to morrow will be my Queen . 
Tatho , as a priest to a priest , let me solemnly bring to your memory the infinite power you bite against on this Sacred Mountain . 
Your teaching has warned you of the weapons that are stored in the Ark of the Mysteries . 
You cannot scare us back now by words , said Tatho doggedly . 
And as for magic , it will be met by magic . 
Phorenice has found by her own cleverness as many powers as were ever stored up in the Ark of the Mysteries . 
Yet she looked on helplessly enough last night , when her royal pyramid was trundled into a rubbish heap . 
Zaemon had prophesied that this should be so , and for a witness , why I myself stood closer to her than we two stand now , and saw her . 
I will own you took her by surprise somewhat there . 
Well , I said , I know little about the business either . 
I leave these matters now to those who are higher above me in the priesthood . 
Indeed , having a liking for Nais , it seems I am debarred from ever being given understanding about the highest of the higher Mysteries . 
So I content myself with being a soldier , and when the appointed day comes , I shall fall and kiss my mother the Earth for the last time . 
You , so I am told , have ambition for longer life . 
Phorenice has found the Great Secret , and I am to be the first that will share it with her . 
We shall be as Gods upon the earth , seeing that Death will be powerless to touch us . 
And the twin sons she has borne me , will be made immortal also . 
No , my lord , there is no need to shake your head and try to deny it . 
I have had some acquaintance with her . 
But the order has been made , and her immortality will be snatched from her very rudely . 
Now , mark solemnly my words . 
You know me , Tatho , for a man that never lies . 
Then save yourself before it is too late . 
You shall have again your vice royalty in Yucatan . 
But , man , there is no Yucatan . 
A great horde of little hairy creatures , that were something less than human and something more than beasts , swept down upon our cities and ate them out . 
Oh , you may sneer if you choose ! Others sneered when I came home , till the Empress stopped them . 
I tell you , my lord , those little hairy creatures were like the ants aye , for numbers , and wooden bravery , as well as for appetite . 
As a result to day , there is no Yucatan . 
You shall have Egypt , then . 
He burst at me hotly . 
I would not take seven Egypts and ten Yucatans . 
My lord , you think more poorly of me than is kind , when you ask me to become a traitor . 
In your place would you throw your Nais away , if the doing it would save you from a danger ? That is different . 
You have a kindness for her . 
I have all that and more for Phorenice , who is , besides , my wife and the mother of my children . 
If I have qualms and I freely confess I know you are desperate men up there , and have dreadful powers at your command my shiverings are for them and not for myself . 
and carry evil reports about me to whatever Gods they chance to come before . 
They had scaling ladders certainly , but they had no chance of getting these planted . 
They could do naught but fill the narrow way with their bodies , and to that end they had been sent , and to that end they humbly died . 
But with us it was different . 
A man down on our side was a man whose arm would bitterly be missed , and one which could in no possible way be replaced . 
It came to my mind now , that if I could destroy this path , we might gain a breathing space for further effort . 
But once the point was fixed , there was little delay in getting the scheme in movement . 
Gods ! But it was a hateful task , smashing down that splendid handiwork of the men of the past . 
But it was better that it should crash down to ruin in the abyss below , than that Phorenice should profane it with her impious sandals . 
At first I had feared that it would be needful to sacrifice the knot of brave men who were so valiantly defending the gate then being attacked . 
But when the work of destroying the pathway was nearly completed , I saw a chance of retrieving them . 
We had not been content merely with breaking arches , and throwing down the piers . 
All was , I say , finally prepared in this fashion , and then I gave the word to hold . 
A narrow ledge still remained undestroyed , and offered footway , and over this I crossed . 
For awhile I busied myself at their side , stopping an occasional fire tube dart or arrow on my shield and passing them the tidings . 
The attack was growing fiercer every minute now . 
The enemy had packed the pass below well nigh full of their dead , and our battering stones had less distance to fall and so could do less execution . 
They pressed forward more eagerly than ever with their scaling ladders , and it was plain that soon they would inevitably put the place to the storm . 
Even during the short time I was there , their sling stones and missiles took life from three more of the twelve who stood with me on the defence . 
But here at any rate was a break in the fighting . 
But Zaemon was not to be come at . 
And so I was free to turn where my likings would have led me first , and that was to the house which sheltered Nais . 
She waked as I came in over the threshold , and her eyes filled with a welcome for me . 
I went across and knelt where she lay , putting my face on the pillow beside her . 
She was full of tender talk and sweet endearments . 
She rallied me on the new cleanness of my chin , and on the robe which I had taken as a covering . 
She professed a pretty awe for my kingship , and vowed that had she known of my coming dignities she would never have dared to discover a love for me . 
But about my marriage with Phorenice she spoke with less lightness . 
She put out her thin white hand , and drew my face to her lips . 
It is weak of me to have a jealousy , she murmured , knowing how completely my lord is mine alone but I cannot help it . 
You have said you were her husband for awhile . 
It gives me a pang to think that I shall not be the first to lie in your arms , Deucalion . 
Then you may gaily throw your pang away , I whispered back . 
I was husband to Phorenice in mere word for how long I do not precisely know . 
But in anything beyond , I was never her husband at all . 
She herself has most nicely and completely annulled that marriage as I have told you . 
Tatho is her husband now , and father to her children , and he seems to have a fondness for her which does him credit . 
They are a mere private matter which can have no concern to any one beyond our two selves , and more weighty subjects are piling themselves up in deep index for the historian . 
Phorenice , it seemed , had more rage against the Priests' Clan on the Mountain and more bright genius to help her to a vengeance than I had credited . 
Her troops stormed easily the gates we had left to them , and swarmed up till they stood where the pathway was broken down . 
There was very little noise made to tell of what was afoot . 
And so it was under cover of the darkness that Phorenice brought up her engine into position for attack . 
Planking had been laid down for its wheels , and the wheels themselves well greased , and it may be that she hoped to march in upon us whilst all slept . 
The captain of the gate came to me and whispered We have made no light till the King came , not knowing the King's will in the matter . 
The captain of the gate took one of the balls in his hand , lit the fuse , and hurled it . 
The horrid thing burst amongst a mass of men who were labouring with a huge engine , sputtering them with its deadly fire , and lighting their garments . 
The plan of the engine showed itself plainly . 
It was storeyed inside , with ladders joining each floor , and through slits in the side which faced us bowmen could cover an attack . 
From its top a great bridge reared high above it , being carried vertically till the tower was brought near enough for its use . 
I saw , and inwardly felt myself conquered . 
The cleverness of Phorenice had been too strong for my defence . 
No war engine of which we had command could overset the tower . 
The whole of its massive timbers were hung with the wet new stripped skins of beasts , so that even the throwing fire could not destroy it . 
What puny means we had to impede those who pushed it forward would have little effect . 
I gripped my axe , and the muscles of my arms stood out in knots at the thought of it . 
Would Tatho come to give me sport ? I feared not . 
They would send only the common soldiers first to the storm , and I must be content to do my killing on those . 
And Nais , what of her ? I had a quiet mind there . 
When any spoilers came to the house where she lay , she would know that Deucalion had been taken up to the Gods , and she would not be long in following him . 
No , I had no fears of being parted long from Nais now . 
DESTRUCTION OF ATLANTIS A tottering old Priest came up and touched me on the shoulder . 
Well ? I said sharply , having small taste for interruption just now . 
News has been carried to the Three , my King , of what is threatened . 
Then they will know that I stand here now , brother , to enjoy the finest fight of my life . 
When it is finished I shall go to the Gods , and be there standing behind the stars to welcome them when presently they also arrive . 
They have my regrets that they are too old and too feeble to die and look upon a fine killing themselves . 
I have commands from them , my King , to lay upon you , which I fear you will like but slenderly . 
You are forbidden to find your death here in the fighting . 
They have a further use for you yet . 
I turned on the old man angrily enough . 
I shall take no such order , my brother . 
I am not going to believe it was ever given . 
And you may go back and throw that message at their teeth . 
The old man smiled enviously . 
He , too , had been a keen soldier in his day . 
I told them you would not easily believe such a message , and asked them for a sign , and they bore with me , and gave me one . 
I was to give you this jewel , my King . 
How came they by that ? It is a bracelet from the elbow of Nais . 
They must have stripped her of it . 
I did not know it came from Nais . 
The word I was to bring you said that the owner of the jewel was inside the Ark of the Mysteries , and waited you there . 
The use which the Three have for you further concerns her also . 
Indeed , the promise of the battle was very tempting . 
But in the end my love for Nais prevailed , and I gave the salutation that was needful in token that I heard the order and obeyed it . 
To the knot of Priests who were left for the defence , I turned and made my farewells . 
You will have what I shall miss , my brothers , I said . 
I envy you that fight . 
But , though I am King of Atlantis , still I am only one of the Seven , and so am the servant of the Three and must obey their order . 
They speak in words the will of the most High Gods , and we must do as they command . 
You will stand behind the stars before I come , and I ask of you that you will commend me to Those you meet there . 
It is not my own will that I shall not appear there by your side . 
They heard my words with smiles , and very courteously saluted me with their weapons , and there we parted . 
I did not see the fight , but I know it was good , from the time which passed before Phorenice's hordes broke out on to the crest of the Mountain . 
They died hard , that last remnant of the lesser Priests of Atlantis . 
They were trained fighting men all , but old and feeble , and the odds against them were too enormous to be stemmed for over long . 
In a very short time the place would be put to the storm , and the roof of the Sacred Mountain would be at the open mercy of the invader . 
If there was any further thing to be done , it was well that it should be set about quickly whilst peace remained . 
It seemed to me that the moment for prompt action , and the time for lengthy pompous ceremonial was done for good . 
But Zaemon was minded otherwise . 
I followed his pointing and looked , and a chill began to crawl through me . 
Our Lord the Sun burned high overhead in a sky of cloudless blue , and day shimmered in His heat . 
But it was the significance of the sea that troubled me most . 
You have seen ? asked Zaemon . 
You understand ? ln part . 
Then let me tell you all . 
This is the beginning , and the end will follow swiftly . 
The most High Gods , that sit behind the stars , have a limit to even Their sublime patience and that has been passed . 
The city of Atlantis , the great continent that is beyond , and all that are in them are doomed to unutterable destruction . 
No mortal implements can so much as scratch its surface , no waves or rocks wreck it . 
Out of all this vast country it has been decreed by the High Gods that two shall not perish . 
For the man , the choice has fallen upon yourself . 
I was half numb with the shock of what was befalling . 
I do not know that I care to be a survivor . 
You are not asked for your wishes , said the old man . 
You are given an order from the High Gods , who know you to be Their faithful servant . 
Habit rode strong upon me . 
I made salutation in the required form , and said that I heard and would obey . 
Certainly the time remaining was short enough . 
The fight still raged down at the gate in the pass , though it was a wonder how the handful of Priests had held their ground so long . 
Then there would be no withholding their rush . 
In their mad fury and panic they would sweep all obstruction resistlessly before them , and those who stood in their path might look to themselves . 
But there was no hurrying Zaemon and his fellow sage . 
They were without temple for the ceremony , without sacrifice or incense to decorate it . 
They had but the sky for a roof to make their echoes , and the Gods themselves for witnesses . 
A burning mountain burst with a bellowing roar as the incoming waters met its fires , but gravely they went on , in turn reciting their sentences . 
Phorenice's troops broke down the last resistance , and poured in a frenzied stream amongst the groves and temples , but still they quavered never in the ritual . 
Even the tremendous circumstances which hemmed them in could do nothing to make these frail old men forget the deference which was due to the highest order of the Clan . 
For myself , I will freely own I was less rapt . 
I stood there bareheaded in the heat , a man trying to concentrate himself , and yet torn the while by a thousand foreign emotions . 
The awful thing that was happening all around compelled some of my attention . 
And moreover , I was filled with other anxieties and thoughts concerning Nais . 
But it became clear that if the ceremony of my raising did not soon arrive at its natural end , it would be cut short presently with something of suddenness . 
Phorenice's conquering legions swarmed out on to the crest of the Mountain , and now carried full knowledge of the dreadful thing that was come upon the country . 
My flickering attention saw the soldiers coming always nearer in their frantic wanderings , and saw also the sea below rolling deeper and deeper in upon the land . 
The fires , too , which ringed in half the mountain , spurted up to double their old height , and burned with an unceasing roar . 
But at last an end came to the ceremony . 
When I had done that , he bade me rise as a fully installed and duly initiated member of the Three . 
But what items you remember here and there may turn of use to you hereafter . 
And now we two give you our farewells , and promise to commend you highly to the Gods when soon we meet Them in Their place behind the stars . 
Climb now into the Ark , and be ready to shut the door which guards it , if there is any attempt by these raging people to invade that also . 
But as long as may be done in safety , you may look out upon Atlantis in her death throes . 
It is very fitting that one of the only two who are sent hence alive , should carry the full tale of what has befallen . 
I was bidden stay here by Zaemon , she said , who forced me to this place by threats and also by promises that my lord would follow . 
Is there no chance to save him from what is going to happen ? He will not come into this Ark , for I asked him . 
Zaemon's will in the matter is not to be twisted by you or by me . 
, he grudges every minute that is lost in carrying it to them . 
I left her then , and went out again up the stair , and stood once more on the roof of the Ark . 
On the Mountain top men still ran about distracted , but gradually they were coming to where the Ark rested on the highest point . 
For the moment , however , I passed them lightly . 
The drowning of the great continent that had been spread out below filled the eye . 
Ocean roared in upon it with still more furious waves . 
The plains and the level lands were foaming lakes . 
The great city of Atlantis had vanished eternally . 
Presently a compact little body of people came from out the houses and the temples , and headed directly across the open ground towards the Ark . 
On the outside marched Phorenice's personal guards with their weapons new blooded . 
They had been forced to fight a way through their own fellow soldiers . 
proved to them that Phorenice still came first . 
Her two children lay in the litter at her feet . 
On her right hand marched Tatho gorgeously apparelled , and with a beard curled and plaited into a thousand ringlets . 
On the other side , plying her industry with unruffled defence , walked Ylga , once again fan girl , and so still second lady in this dwindling kingdom . 
The party of them halted half a score of paces from the Ark by Phorenice's order . 
Do not go nearer to those unclean old men . 
They carry a rank odour with them , and for the moment we are short of essences to sweeten the air of their neighbourhood . 
She lifted her eyebrows and looked up at me . 
Truly a quiet little gathering of old acquaintances . 
Why , there is Deucalion , that once I took the flavour of and threw aside when he cloyed me . 
I have Nais here , I said , and presently we two will be all that are left alive of this nation . 
Nais is quite welcome to my leavings , she laughed . 
I will look down upon your country cooings when presently I go back to the Place behind the stars from which I came . 
You are a very rustic person , Deucalion . 
They tell me too that three or four of these smelling old men up here have named you King . 
By my face ! you must have hungered for me very madly these years we have been parted , if new grown ruggedness of feature is an evidence . 
I do not gibe back at a woman who presently will die . 
Bah ! Deucalion , you will live behind the times . 
Have they not told you that I know the Great Secret and am indeed a Goddess now ? My arts can make life run on eternally . 
Then the waters will presently test them hard , I said , but there the talk was taken into other lips . 
Zaemon went forward to the front of the litter with the Symbol of our Lord the Sun glowing in his hand , and burst into a flow of cursing . 
It was hard for me to hear his words . 
The roar of the waters which poured up over the land , and beat in vast waves against the Sacred Mountain itself , grew nearer and more loud . 
But the old man had his say . 
The majesty of the most High Gods was vindicated , and that splendid Empress knew it and lay back sullenly amongst the cushions of her litter , a beaten woman . 
Only one person in that rigid knot of people found power to leave the rest , and that was Ylga . 
She came out to the side of the Ark , and leaned up , and cried me a farewell through the gathering roar of the flood . 
I would I might save you and take you with us , I said . 
As for that , she said , with a gesture , I would not come if you asked me . 
I am not a woman that will take anything less than all . 
But I shall meet what comes presently with the memory that you will have me always somewhere in your recollection . 
I know somewhat of men , even men of your stamp , Deucalion , and you will never forget that you came very near to loving me once . 
I think , too , she said something further , concerning Nais , but the bellowing rush of the waters drowned all other words . 
A great mist made from the stream sent up by the swamped burning mountains stopped all accurate view , though the blaze from the fires lit it like gold . 
And then my eye fell on old Zaemon waving to me with the Symbol to shut down the door in the roof of the Ark . 
I obeyed his last command , and went down the stair , and closed all ingress behind me . 
I went to the place where she lay , and put my arms tightly around her . 
The end was coming very nearly to them now , and the great crowd of them were mad with terror . 
I would have given much to have known how Phorenice fared in that final tumult , and how she faced it . 
There is no denying the fascination which Phorenice carried with her . 
But the end did not dally long with its coming . 
There was a little surge that lifted the Ark a hand's breadth or so in its cradle , and set it back again with a jar and a quiver . 
The blows from axes and weapons ceased on its lower part , but redoubled into frenzied batterings on its rounded roof . 
We tossed about on the crest and troughs of delirious seas , a sport for the greedy Gods of the ocean . 
The lamp had fallen , and we crouched there in darkness , dully weighed with the burden of knowledge that we alone were saved out of what was yesterday a mighty nation . 
ON THE BOSOM OF THE DEEP The Ark was rudderless , oarless , and machineless , and could travel only where the High Gods chose . 
The inside was dark , and full of an ancient smell , and crowded with groanings and noise . 
I could not find the fire box to relight the fallen lamp , and so we had to endure blindly what was dealt out to us . 
The waves tossed us in merciless sport , and I clung on by the side of Nais , holding her to the bed . 
We did not speak much , but there was full companionship in our bereavement and our silence . 
When Atlantis sank to form new ocean bed , she left great whirlpools and spoutings from her drowned fires as a fleeting legacy to the Gods of the Sea . 
, a vast hurricane of wind must have come on next so as to leave no piece of the desolation incomplete . 
Yet , though I was tired beyond words , for long enough sleep would not visit me . 
Wearily I stared out over the oily sunlit waters . 
No blur of land met the eye . 
The ring of ocean was unbroken on every side , and overhead the vault of heaven remained unchanged . 
We were finely rested , both of us , and rest and strength bring one complacency . 
A wonderful vessel was this Ark , now we were able to see it at leisure and intimately . 
Although for the first time now in all its centuries of life it swam upon the waters , it showed no leak or suncrack . 
Inside , even its floor was bone dry . 
That it was built from some wood , one could see by the grainings , but nowhere could one find suture or joint . 
In the gloomy cave of its belly were stored many matters . 
At one end , in great tanks on either side of central alley , was a prodigious store of grain . 
Sweet water was in other tanks at the other end . 
There was a good store of weapons too and the tools for handicrafts . 
Now , for many weeks , our life endured in this Ark as the Gods drove it about here and there across the face of the waters . 
We had no government over direction we could not by so much as a hair's breadth a day increase her speed . 
In a great coffer , in the centre of the Ark's floor , the whole of the Mysteries learned during the study of ages were set down in accurate writing . 
I read through some of them during the days which passed , and the awfulness of the Powers over which they gave control appalled me . 
I had seen some of these Powers set loose in Atlantis , and was a witness of her destruction . 
The thought of being custodian of these writings was more than I could endure , and the more the matter rested in my mind , the more intolerable became the burden . 
And at last I took hot irons , and with them seared the wax on the sheets till every letter of the old writings was obliterated . 
Nais , that I love so tenderly TRANSLATOR'S NOTE The remaining sheets are too broken to be legible . 
