The Other Side of the Wall . 
What Melchisedec Heard and Saw . 
I Tried Not to Be . 
She was such a little girl that one did not expect to see such a look on her small face . 
It would have been an old look for a child of twelve , and Sara Crewe was only seven . 
She felt as if she had lived a long , long time . 
At this moment she was remembering the voyage she had just made from Bombay with her father , Captain Crewe . 
She found this so puzzling that she moved closer to her father . 
Papa , she said in a low , mysterious little voice which was almost a whisper , papa . 
What is it , darling ? Captain Crewe answered , holding her closer and looking down into her face . 
What is Sara thinking of ? Is this the place ? Sara whispered , cuddling still closer to him . 
Is it , papa ? Yes , little Sara , it is . 
We have reached it at last . 
And though she was only seven years old , she knew that he felt sad when he said it . 
It seemed to her many years since he had begun to prepare her mind for the place , as she always called it . 
Her mother had died when she was born , so she had never known or missed her . 
Her young , handsome , rich , petting father seemed to be the only relation she had in the world . 
They had always played together and been fond of each other . 
She did not know all that being rich meant . 
She had had toys and pets and an ayah who worshipped her , and she had gradually learned that people who were rich had these things . 
That , however , was all she knew about it . 
During her short life only one thing had troubled her , and that thing was the place she was to be taken to some day . 
The climate of India was very bad for children , and as soon as possible they were sent away from it generally to England and to school . 
She had seen other children go away , and had heard their fathers and mothers talk about the letters they received from them . 
Couldn't you go to that place with me , papa ? she had asked when she was five years old . 
Couldn't you go to school , too ? I would help you with your lessons . 
But you will not have to stay for a very long time , little Sara , he had always said . 
She had liked to think of that . 
She did not care very much for other little girls , but if she had plenty of books she could console herself . 
She liked books more than anything else , and was , in fact , always inventing stories of beautiful things and telling them to herself . 
Sometimes she had told them to her father , and he had liked them as much as she did . 
Well , papa , she said softly , if we are here I suppose we must be resigned . 
He laughed at her old fashioned speech and kissed her . 
He was really not at all resigned himself , though he knew he must keep that a secret . 
So he held her very closely in his arms as the cab rolled into the big , dull square in which stood the house which was their destination . 
Here we are , Sara , said Captain Crewe , making his voice sound as cheerful as possible . 
Then he lifted her out of the cab and they mounted the steps and rang the bell . 
Sara often thought afterward that the house was somehow exactly like Miss Minchin . 
It was respectable and well furnished , but everything in it was ugly and the very armchairs seemed to have hard bones in them . 
In the hall everything was hard and polished even the red cheeks of the moon face on the tall clock in the corner had a severe varnished look . 
As she sat down in one of the stiff mahogany chairs , Sara cast one of her quick looks about her . 
I don't like it , papa , she said . 
But then I dare say soldiers even brave ones don't really LIKE going into bat tle . 
Captain Crewe laughed outright at this . 
He was young and full of fun , and he never tired of hearing Sara's queer speeches . 
Oh , little Sara , he said . 
What shall I do when I have no one to say solemn things to me ? No one else is as solemn as you are . 
But why do solemn things make you laugh so ? inquired Sara . 
Because you are such fun when you say them , he answered , laughing still more . 
And then suddenly he swept her into his arms and kissed her very hard , stopping laughing all at once and looking almost as if tears had come into his eyes . 
It was just then that Miss Minchin entered the room . 
She was very like her house , Sara felt tall and dull , and respectable and ugly . 
She had large , cold , fishy eyes , and a large , cold , fishy smile . 
It spread itself into a very large smile when she saw Sara and Captain Crewe . 
She had heard a great many desirable things of the young soldier from the lady who had recommended her school to him . 
Among other things , she had heard that he was a rich father who was willing to spend a great deal of money on his little daughter . 
It will be a great privilege to have charge of such a beautiful and promising child , Captain Crewe , she said , taking Sara's hand and stroking it . 
Lady Meredith has told me of her unusual cleverness . 
A clever child is a great treasure in an establishment like mine . 
Sara stood quietly , with her eyes fixed upon Miss Minchin's face . 
She was thinking something odd , as usual . 
Why does she say I am a beautiful child ? she was thinking . 
I am not beautiful at all . 
Colonel Grange's little girl , Isobel , is beautiful . 
She has dimples and rose colored cheeks , and long hair the color of gold . 
I have short black hair and green eyes besides which , I am a thin child and not fair in the least . 
I am one of the ugliest children I ever saw . 
She is beginning by telling a story . 
She was mistaken , however , in thinking she was an ugly child . 
She was not in the least like Isobel Grange , who had been the beauty of the regiment , but she had an odd charm of her own . 
She was a slim , supple creature , rather tall for her age , and had an intense , attractive little face . 
Still she was very firm in her belief that she was an ugly little girl , and she was not at all elated by Miss Minchin's flattery . 
I should be telling a story if I said she was beautiful , she thought and I should know I was telling a story . 
I believe I am as ugly as she is in my way . 
What did she say that for ? After she had known Miss Minchin longer she learned why she had said it . 
She discovered that she said the same thing to each papa and mamma who brought a child to her school . 
Sara stood near her father and listened while he and Miss Minchin talked . 
She had been brought to the seminary because Lady Meredith's two little girls had been educated there , and Captain Crewe had a great respect for Lady Meredith's experience . 
Sara was to be what was known as a parlor boarder , and she was to enjoy even greater privileges than parlor boarders usually did . 
I am not in the least anxious about her education , Captain Crewe said , with his gay laugh , as he held Sara's hand and patted it . 
The difficulty will be to keep her from learning too fast and too much . 
She is always sitting with her little nose burrowing into books . 
She doesn't read them , Miss Minchin she gobbles them up as if she were a little wolf instead of a little girl . 
Drag her away from her books when she reads too much . 
Make her ride her pony in the Row or go out and buy a new doll . 
She ought to play more with dolls . 
Papa , said Sara , you see , if I went out and bought a new doll every few days I should have more than I could be fond of . 
Dolls ought to be intimate friends . 
Emily is going to be my intimate friend . 
Captain Crewe looked at Miss Minchin and Miss Minchin looked at Captain Crewe . 
Who is Emily ? she inquired . 
Tell her , Sara , Captain Crewe said , smiling . 
Sara's green gray eyes looked very solemn and quite soft as she answered . 
She is a doll I haven't got yet , she said . 
She is a doll papa is going to buy for me . 
We are going out together to find her . 
I have called her Emily . 
She is going to be my friend when papa is gone . 
I want her to talk to about him . 
Miss Minchin's large , fishy smile became very flattering indeed . 
What an original child ! she said . 
What a darling little creature ! Yes , said Captain Crewe , drawing Sara close . 
She is a darling little creature . 
Take great care of her for me , Miss Minchin . 
Sara stayed with her father at his hotel for several days in fact , she remained with him until he sailed away again to India . 
They went out and visited many big shops together , and bought a great many things . 
And at last they found Emily , but they went to a number of toy shops and looked at a great many dolls before they discovered her . 
I want her to look as if she wasn't a doll really , Sara said . 
I want her to look as if she LISTENS when I talk to her . 
The trouble with dolls , papa and she put her head on one side and reflected as she said it the trouble with dolls is that they never seem to HEAR . 
You see , Sara said when they were examining one who had no clothes . 
If , when I find her , she has no frocks , we can take her to a dressmaker and have her things made to fit . 
They will fit better if they are tried on . 
After a number of disappointments they decided to walk and look in at the shop windows and let the cab follow them . 
Oh , papa ! she cried . 
She is actually waiting there for us ! she said . 
Let us go in to her . 
Dear me , said Captain Crewe , I feel as if we ought to have someone to introduce us . 
You must introduce me and I will introduce you , said Sara . 
But I knew her the minute I saw her so perhaps she knew me , too . 
Perhaps she had known her . 
She had certainly a very intelligent expression in her eyes when Sara took her in her arms . 
Of course , said Sara , looking into her face as she held her on her knee , of course papa , this is Emily . 
So Emily was bought and actually taken to a children's outfitter's shop and measured for a wardrobe as grand as Sara's own . 
She had lace frocks , too , and velvet and muslin ones , and hats and coats and beautiful lace trimmed underclothes , and gloves and handkerchiefs and furs . 
I should like her always to look as if she was a child with a good mother , said Sara . 
I'm her mother , though I am going to make a companion of her . 
Captain Crewe would really have enjoyed the shopping tremendously , but that a sad thought kept tugging at his heart . 
This all meant that he was going to be separated from his beloved , quaint little comrade . 
He got out of his bed in the middle of that night and went and stood looking down at Sara , who lay asleep with Emily in her arms . 
Emily looked so like a real child that Captain Crewe felt glad she was there . 
He drew a big sigh and pulled his mustache with a boyish expression . 
Heigh ho , little Sara ! he said to himself I don't believe you know how much your daddy will miss you . 
The next day he took her to Miss Minchin's and left her there . 
He was to sail away the next morning . 
He explained to Miss Minchin that his solicitors , Messrs . 
Barrow Skipworth , had charge of his affairs in England and would give her any advice she wanted , and that they would pay the bills she sent in for Sara's expenses . 
He would write to Sara twice a week , and she was to be given every pleasure she asked for . 
She is a sensible little thing , and she never wants anything it isn't safe to give her , he said . 
Then he went with Sara into her little sitting room and they bade each other good by . 
Sara sat on his knee and held the lapels of his coat in her small hands , and looked long and hard at his face . 
Are you learning me by heart , little Sara ? he said , stroking her hair . 
I know you by heart . 
You are inside my heart . 
And they put their arms round each other and kissed as if they would never let each other go . 
Emily was sitting by her , and she looked after it , too . 
When Miss Minchin sent her sister , Miss Amelia , to see what the child was doing , she found she could not open the door . 
I have locked it , said a queer , polite little voice from inside . 
I want to be quite by myself , if you please . 
Miss Amelia was fat and dumpy , and stood very much in awe of her sister . 
She was really the better natured person of the two , but she never disobeyed Miss Minchin . 
She went downstairs again , looking almost alarmed . 
I never saw such a funny , old fashioned child , sister , she said . 
She has locked herself in , and she is not making the least particle of noise . 
It is much better than if she kicked and screamed , as some of them do , Miss Minchin answered . 
I expected that a child as much spoiled as she is would set the whole house in an uproar . 
If ever a child was given her own way in everything , she is . 
I've been opening her trunks and putting her things away , said Miss Amelia . 
I never saw anything like them sable and ermine on her coats , and real Valenciennes lace on her underclothing . 
You have seen some of her clothes . 
She has been provided for as if she were a little princess . 
A French Lesson When Sara entered the schoolroom the next morning everybody looked at her with wide , interested eyes . 
They knew very certainly that she was Miss Minchin's show pupil and was considered a credit to the establishment . 
One or two of them had even caught a glimpse of her French maid , Mariette , who had arrived the evening before . 
Lavinia had managed to pass Sara's room when the door was open , and had seen Mariette opening a box which had arrived late from some shop . 
It was full of petticoats with lace frills on them frills and frills , she whispered to her friend Jessie as she bent over her geography . 
I saw her shaking them out . 
I heard Miss Minchin say to Miss Amelia that her clothes were so grand that they were ridiculous for a child . 
My mamma says that children should be dressed simply . 
She has got one of those petticoats on now . 
I saw it when she sat down . 
She has silk stockings on ! whispered Jessie , bending over her geography also . 
And what little feet ! I never saw such little feet . 
Oh , sniffed Lavinia , spitefully , that is the way her slippers are made . 
My mamma says that even big feet can be made to look small if you have a clever shoemaker . 
I don't think she is pretty at all . 
Her eyes are such a queer color . 
She isn't pretty as other pretty people are , said Jessie , stealing a glance across the room but she makes you want to look at her again . 
She has tremendously long eyelashes , but her eyes are almost green . 
Sara was sitting quietly in her seat , waiting to be told what to do . 
She had been placed near Miss Minchin's desk . 
She was not abashed at all by the many pairs of eyes watching her . 
She was interested and looked back quietly at the children who looked at her . 
She had had a long talk with Emily about her papa that morning . 
He is on the sea now , Emily , she had said . 
We must be very great friends to each other and tell each other things . 
Emily , look at me . 
You have the nicest eyes I ever saw but I wish you could speak . 
You can read that while I am downstairs , she said and , seeing Mariette looking at her curiously , she spoke to her with a serious little face . 
What I believe about dolls , she said , is that they can do things they will not let us know about . 
Perhaps , really , Emily can read and talk and walk , but she will only do it when people are out of the room . 
You see , if people knew that dolls could do things , they would make them work . 
So , perhaps , they have promised each other to keep it a secret . 
Then if she heard either of us coming , she would just run back and jump into her chair and pretend she had been there all the time . 
Comme elle est drole ! Mariette said to herself , and when she went downstairs she told the head housemaid about it . 
But she had already begun to like this odd little girl who had such an intelligent small face and such perfect manners . 
She had taken care of children before who were not so polite . 
Sara was a very fine little person , and had a gentle , appreciative way of saying , If you please , Mariette , Thank you , Mariette , which was very charming . 
Mariette told the head housemaid that she thanked her as if she was thanking a lady . 
Elle a l'air d'une princesse , cette petite , she said . 
Indeed , she was very much pleased with her new little mistress and liked her place greatly . 
After Sara had sat in her seat in the schoolroom for a few minutes , being looked at by the pupils , Miss Minchin rapped in a dignified manner upon her desk . 
Young ladies , she said , I wish to introduce you to your new companion . 
All the little girls rose in their places , and Sara rose also . 
I shall expect you all to be very agreeable to Miss Crewe she has just come to us from a great distance in fact , from India . 
As soon as lessons are over you must make each other's acquaintance . 
The pupils bowed ceremoniously , and Sara made a little curtsy , and then they sat down and looked at each other again . 
Sara , said Miss Minchin in her schoolroom manner , come here to me . 
She had taken a book from the desk and was turning over its leaves . 
Sara went to her politely . 
As your papa has engaged a French maid for you , she began , I conclude that he wishes you to make a special study of the French language . 
Sara felt a little awkward . 
I think he engaged her , she said , because he he thought I would like her , Miss Minchin . 
My impression is that your papa wished you to learn French . 
If Sara had been older or less punctilious about being quite polite to people , she could have explained herself in a very few words . 
But , as it was , she felt a flush rising on her cheeks . 
The truth was that Sara could not remember the time when she had not seemed to know French . 
Her father had often spoken it to her when she had been a baby . 
Her mother had been a French woman , and Captain Crewe had loved her language , so it happened that Sara had always heard and been familiar with it . 
I I have never really learned French , but but she began , trying shyly to make herself clear . 
One of Miss Minchin's chief secret annoyances was that she did not speak French herself , and was desirous of concealing the irritating fact . 
She , therefore , had no intention of discussing the matter and laying herself open to innocent questioning by a new little pupil . 
That is enough , she said with polite tartness . 
If you have not learned , you must begin at once . 
The French master , Monsieur Dufarge , will be here in a few minutes . 
Take this book and look at it until he arrives . 
She went back to her seat and opened the book . 
She looked at the first page with a grave face . 
She knew it would be rude to smile , and she was very determined not to be rude . 
But it was very odd to find herself expected to study a page which told her that le pere meant the father , and la mere meant the mother . 
Miss Minchin glanced toward her scrutinizingly . 
You look rather cross , Sara , she said . 
I am sorry you do not like the idea of learning French . 
I am very fond of it , answered Sara , thinking she would try again but You must not say but' when you are told to do things , said Miss Minchin . 
Look at your book again . 
And Sara did so , and did not smile , even when she found that le fils meant the son , and le frere meant the brother . 
When Monsieur Dufarge comes , she thought , I can make him understand . 
Monsieur Dufarge arrived very shortly afterward . 
He was a very nice , intelligent , middle aged Frenchman , and he looked interested when his eyes fell upon Sara trying politely to seem absorbed in her little book of phrases . 
Is this a new pupil for me , madame ? he said to Miss Minchin . 
I hope that is my good fortune . 
Her papa Captain Crewe is very anxious that she should begin the language . 
But I am afraid she has a childish prejudice against it . 
She does not seem to wish to learn , said Miss Minchin . 
I am sorry of that , mademoiselle , he said kindly to Sara . 
Perhaps , when we begin to study together , I may show you that it is a charming tongue . 
Little Sara rose in her seat . 
She was beginning to feel rather desperate , as if she were almost in disgrace . 
She looked up into Monsieur Dufarge's face with her big , green gray eyes , and they were quite innocently appealing . 
She knew that he would understand as soon as she spoke . 
She began to explain quite simply in pretty and fluent French . 
Her papa loved it , and she loved it because he did . 
Her dear mamma , who had died when she was born , had been French . 
When she began to speak Miss Minchin started quite violently and sat staring at her over her eyeglasses , almost indignantly , until she had finished . 
Monsieur Dufarge began to smile , and his smile was one of great pleasure . 
When she had finished , he took the phrase book from her , with a look almost affectionate . 
But he spoke to Miss Minchin . 
Ah , madame , he said , there is not much I can teach her . 
She has not LEARNED French she is French . 
You ought to have told me , exclaimed Miss Minchin , much mortified , turning to Sara . 
I I tried , said Sara . 
I I suppose I did not begin right . 
Miss Minchin knew she had tried , and that it had not been her fault that she was not allowed to explain . 
And when she saw that the pupils had been listening and that Lavinia and Jessie were giggling behind their French grammars , she felt infuriated . 
Silence , young ladies ! she said severely , rapping upon the desk . 
Silence at once ! And she began from that minute to feel rather a grudge against her show pupil . 
She was a fat child who did not look as if she were in the least clever , but she had a good naturedly pouting mouth . 
John ! she exclaimed severely . 
What do you mean by such conduct ? Remove your elbows ! Take your ribbon out of your mouth ! Sit up at once ! Upon which Miss St . 
It was a way of hers always to want to spring into any fray in which someone was made uncomfortable or unhappy . 
She always wants to fight when she sees people in trouble . 
So she took rather a fancy to fat , slow , little Miss St . 
John , and kept glancing toward her through the morning . 
She saw that lessons were no easy matter to her , and that there was no danger of her ever being spoiled by being treated as a show pupil . 
Her French lesson was a pathetic thing . 
Her pronunciation made even Monsieur Dufarge smile in spite of himself , and Lavinia and Jessie and the more fortunate girls either giggled or looked at her in wondering disdain . 
But Sara did not laugh . 
She tried to look as if she did not hear when Miss St . 
John called le bon pain , lee bong pang . 
It isn't funny , really , she said between her teeth , as she bent over her book . 
They ought not to laugh . 
When lessons were over and the pupils gathered together in groups to talk , Sara looked for Miss St . 
John , and finding her bundled rather disconsolately in a window seat , she walked over to her and spoke . 
What is your name ? she said . 
A new pupil with a carriage and a pony and a maid , and a voyage from India to discuss , was not an ordinary acquaintance . 
Mine is Sara Crewe , said Sara . 
It sounds like a story book . 
Do you like it ? fluttered Ermengarde . 
John's chief trouble in life was that she had a clever father . 
Sometimes this seemed to her a dreadful calamity . 
Ermengarde was a severe trial to Mr. St . 
He could not understand how a child of his could be a notably and unmistakably dull creature who never shone in anything . 
She was the monumental dunce of the school , and it could not be denied . 
She must be MADE to learn , her father said to Miss Minchin . 
Consequently Ermengarde spent the greater part of her life in disgrace or in tears . 
She learned things and forgot them or , if she remembered them , she did not understand them . 
So it was natural that , having made Sara's acquaintance , she should sit and stare at her with profound admiration . 
You can speak French , can't you ? she said respectfully . 
Sara got on to the window seat , which was a big , deep one , and , tucking up her feet , sat with her hands clasped round her knees . 
I can speak it because I have heard it all my life , she answered . 
You could speak it if you had always heard it . 
Oh , no , I couldn't , said Ermengarde . 
I NEVER could speak it ! Why ? inquired Sara , curiously . 
Ermengarde shook her head so that the pigtail wobbled . 
You heard me just now , she said . 
I can't SAY the words . 
She reflected a few moments . 
She had heard it said very often that she was clever , and she wondered if she was and IF she was , how it had happened . 
I don't know , she said . 
Then , seeing a mournful look on the round , chubby face , she gave a little laugh and changed the subject . 
Would you like to see Emily ? she inquired . 
Who is Emily ? Ermengarde asked , just as Miss Minchin had done . 
Come up to my room and see , said Sara , holding out her hand . 
They jumped down from the window seat together , and went upstairs . 
Is it true , Ermengarde whispered , as they went through the hall is it true that you have a playroom all to yourself ? Yes , Sara answered . 
It spoils it if I think people listen . 
They had reached the passage leading to Sara's room by this time , and Ermengarde stopped short , staring , and quite losing her breath . 
You MAK up stories ! she gasped . 
Can you do that as well as speak French ? CAN you ? Sara looked at her in simple surprise . 
Why , anyone can make up things , she said . 
Have you never tried ? She put her hand warningly on Ermengarde's . 
Let us go very quietly to the door , she whispered , and then I will open it quite suddenly perhaps we may catch her . 
Whatsoever she meant , Ermengarde was sure it was something delightfully exciting . 
So , quite thrilled with expectation , she followed her on tiptoe along the passage . 
They made not the least noise until they reached the door . 
Then Sara suddenly turned the handle , and threw it wide open . 
Its opening revealed the room quite neat and quiet , a fire gently burning in the grate , and a wonderful doll sitting in a chair by it , apparently reading a book . 
Oh , she got back to her seat before we could see her ! Sara explained . 
Of course they always do . 
They are as quick as lightning . 
Ermengarde looked from her to the doll and back again . 
Can she walk ? she asked breathlessly . 
At least I believe she can . 
At least I PRETEND I believe she can . 
And that makes it seem as if it were true . 
Have you never pretended things ? No , said Ermengarde . 
I tell me about it . 
She was so bewitched by this odd , new companion that she actually stared at Sara instead of at Emily notwithstanding that Emily was the most attractive doll person she had ever seen . 
Let us sit down , said Sara , and I will tell you . 
It's so easy that when you begin you can't stop . 
You just go on and on doing it always . 
Emily , you must listen . 
Ermengarde , this is Emily . 
Would you like to hold her ? Oh , may I ? said Ermengarde . 
May I , really ? She is beautiful ! And Emily was put into her arms . 
Never in her dull , short life had Miss St . 
John dreamed of such an hour as the one she spent with the queer new pupil before they heard the lunch bell ring and were obliged to go downstairs . 
Sara sat upon the hearth rug and told her strange things . 
She sat rather huddled up , and her green eyes shone and her cheeks flushed . 
WE couldn't do it , said Sara , seriously . 
You see , it's a kind of magic . 
Once , when she was relating the story of the search for Emily , Ermengarde saw her face suddenly change . 
A cloud seemed to pass over it and put out the light in her shining eyes . 
Ermengarde had an idea that if she had been like any other little girl , she might have suddenly burst out sobbing and crying . 
Have you a a pain ? Ermengarde ventured . 
Yes , Sara answered , after a moment's silence . 
But it is not in my body . 
She was , indeed , greatly embarrassed . 
I I scarcely ever see him , she stammered . 
He is always in the library reading things . 
I love mine more than all the world ten times over , Sara said . 
That is what my pain is . 
She put her head quietly down on her little , huddled up knees , and sat very still for a few minutes . 
She's going to cry out loud , thought Ermengarde , fearfully . 
Her short , black locks tumbled about her ears , and she sat still . 
Then she spoke without lifting her head . 
I promised him I would bear it , she said . 
You have to bear things . 
Think what soldiers bear ! Papa is a soldier . 
If there was a war he would have to bear marching and thirstiness and , perhaps , deep wounds . 
And he would never say a word not one word . 
Ermengarde could only gaze at her , but she felt that she was beginning to adore her . 
She was so wonderful and different from anyone else . 
Presently , she lifted her face and shook back her black locks , with a queer little smile . 
If I go on talking and talking , she said , and telling you things about pretending , I shall bear it better . 
You don't forget , but you bear it better . 
Ermengarde did not know why a lump came into her throat and her eyes felt as if tears were in them . 
Lavinia and Jessie are best friends , she said rather huskily . 
I wish we could be best friends . 
It makes you thankful when you are liked . 
And I'll tell you what a sudden gleam lighting her face I can help you with your French lessons . 
She was treated more as if she were a distinguished guest at the establishment than as if she were a mere little girl . 
If she had been a self opinionated , domineering child , she might have become disagreeable enough to be unbearable through being so much indulged and flattered . 
If she had been an indolent child , she would have learned nothing . 
Privately Miss Minchin disliked her , but she was far too worldly a woman to do or say anything which might make such a desirable pupil wish to leave her school . 
She knew quite well that if Sara wrote to her papa to tell him she was uncomfortable or unhappy , Captain Crewe would remove her at once . 
Things happen to people by accident , she used to say . 
A lot of nice accidents have happened to me . 
It just HAPPENED that I always liked lessons and books , and could remember things when I learned them . 
It just happened that I was born with a father who was beautiful and nice and clever , and could give me everything I liked . 
Perhaps I'm a HIDEOUS child , and no one will ever know , just because I never have any trials . 
Lavinia has no trials , said Ermengarde , stolidly , and she is horrid enough . 
Sara rubbed the end of her little nose reflectively , as she thought the matter over . 
Well , she said at last , perhaps perhaps that is because Lavinia is GROWING . 
This was the result of a charitable recollection of having heard Miss Amelia say that Lavinia was growing so fast that she believed it affected her health and temper . 
Lavinia , in fact , was spiteful . 
She was inordinately jealous of Sara . 
Until the new pupil's arrival , she had felt herself the leader in the school . 
She had led because she was capable of making herself extremely disagreeable if the others did not follow her . 
She domineered over the little children , and assumed grand airs with those big enough to be her companions . 
I believe I couldn't help being just a little if I had so many fine things and was made such a fuss over . 
It's disgusting , the way Miss Minchin shows her off when parents come . 
Dear Sara must come into the drawing room and talk to Mrs. Musgrave about India , mimicked Lavinia , in her most highly flavored imitation of Miss Minchin . 
Dear Sara must speak French to Lady Pitkin . 
Her accent is so perfect . 
She didn't learn her French at the Seminary , at any rate . 
And there's nothing so clever in her knowing it . 
She says herself she didn't learn it at all . 
She just picked it up , because she always heard her papa speak it . 
And , as to her papa , there is nothing so grand in being an Indian officer . 
Well , said Jessie , slowly , he's killed tigers . 
He killed the one in the skin Sara has in her room . 
That's why she likes it so . 
She lies on it and strokes its head , and talks to it as if it was a cat . 
She's always doing something silly , snapped Lavinia . 
My mamma says that way of hers of pretending things is silly . 
She says she will grow up eccentric . 
I t was quite true that Sara was never grand . 
She was a friendly little soul , and shared her privileges and belongings with a free hand . 
She never pushed them out of her way or alluded to their years as a humiliation and a blot upon their small characters . 
And , opening large , convicting eyes , it takes sixteen years to make you twenty . 
So the younger children adored Sara . 
More than once she had been known to have a tea party , made up of these despised ones , in her own room . 
And Emily had been played with , and Emily's own tea service used the one with cups which held quite a lot of much sweetened weak tea and had blue flowers on them . 
No one had seen such a very real doll's tea set before . 
From that afternoon Sara was regarded as a goddess and a queen by the entire alphabet class . 
Lottle Legh worshipped her to such an extent that if Sara had not been a motherly person , she would have found her tiresome . 
Lottie had been sent to school by a rather flighty young papa who could not imagine what else to do with her . 
She had probably heard some grown up people talking her over in the early days , after her mother's death . 
So it became her habit to make great use of this knowledge . 
She refused so strenuously indeed that Miss Minchin was obliged to almost shout in a stately and severe manner to make herself heard . 
What IS she crying for ? she almost yelled . 
Oh oh oh ! Sara heard I haven't got any mam ma a ! Oh , Lottie ! screamed Miss Amelia . 
Do stop , darling ! Don't cry ! Please don't ! Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! Lottle howled tempestuously . 
Haven't got any mam ma a ! She ought to be whipped , Miss Minchin proclaimed . 
You SHALL be whipped , you naughty child ! Lottle wailed more loudly than ever . 
Miss Amelia began to cry . 
When Miss Minchin came out and saw her , she looked rather annoyed . 
She realized that her voice , as heard from inside the room , could not have sounded either dignified or amiable . 
Oh , Sara ! she exclaimed , endeavoring to produce a suitable smile . 
I stopped , explained Sara , because I knew it was Lottie and I thought , perhaps just perhaps , I could make her be quiet . 
May I try , Miss Minchin ? If you can , you are a clever child , answered Miss Minchin , drawing in her mouth sharply . 
Then , seeing that Sara looked slightly chilled by her asperity , she changed her manner . 
But you are clever in everything , she said in her approving way . 
I dare say you can manage her . 
Lottie had always found , when in her own nursery at home , that kicking and screaming would always be quieted by any means she insisted on . 
Poor plump Miss Amelia was trying first one method , and then another . 
Poor darling , she said one moment , I know you haven't any mamma , poor Then in quite another tone , If you don't stop , Lottie , I will shake you . 
Poor little angel ! There ! You wicked , bad , detestable child , I will smack you ! I will ! Sara went to them quietly . 
Miss Amelia , she said in a low voice , Miss Minchin says I may try to make her stop may I ? Miss Amelia turned and looked at her hopelessly . 
Oh , DO you think you can ? she gasped . 
I don't know whether I CAN , answered Sara , still in her half whisper but I will try . 
Miss Amelia stumbled up from her knees with a heavy sigh , and Lottie's fat little legs kicked as hard as ever . 
If you will steal out of the room , said Sara , I will stay with her . 
Oh , Sara ! almost whimpered Miss Amelia . 
We never had such a dreadful child before . 
I don't believe we can keep her . 
But she crept out of the room , and was very much relieved to find an excuse for doing it . 
Sara stood by the howling furious child for a few moments , and looked down at her without saying anything . 
Then she sat down flat on the floor beside her and waited . 
Except for Lottie's angry screams , the room was quite quiet . 
This was a new state of affairs for little Miss Legh , who was accustomed , when she screamed , to hear other people protest and implore and command and coax by turns . 
To lie and kick and shriek , and find the only person near you not seeming to mind in the least , attracted her attention . 
She opened her tight shut streaming eyes to see who this person was . 
And it was only another little girl . 
But it was the one who owned Emily and all the nice things . 
And she was looking at her steadily and as if she was merely thinking . 
I haven't any ma ma ma a ! she announced but her voice was not so strong . 
Sara looked at her still more steadily , but with a sort of understanding in her eyes . 
Neither have I , she said . 
This was so unexpected that it was astounding . 
Lottie actually dropped her legs , gave a wriggle , and lay and stared . 
A new idea will stop a crying child when nothing else will . 
She went to heaven , she said . 
But I am sure she comes out sometimes to see me though I don't see her . 
Perhaps they can both see us now . 
Perhaps they are both in this room . 
Lottle sat bolt upright , and looked about her . 
She was a pretty , little , curly headed creature , and her round eyes were like wet forget me nots . 
If her mamma had seen her during the last half hour , she might not have thought her the kind of child who ought to be related to an angel . 
She had been told that her mamma had wings and a crown , and she had been shown pictures of ladies in beautiful white nightgowns , who were said to be angels . 
But Sara seemed to be telling a real story about a lovely country where real people were . 
And little children run about in the lily fields and gather armfuls of them , and laugh and make little wreaths . 
And the streets are shining . 
And people are never tired , however far they walk . 
They can float anywhere they like . 
She dragged herself close to Sara , and drank in every word until the end came far too soon . 
When it did come , she was so sorry that she put up her lip ominously . 
I want to go there , she cried . 
I haven't any mamma in this school . 
Sara saw the danger signal , and came out of her dream . 
She took hold of the chubby hand and pulled her close to her side with a coaxing little laugh . 
I will be your mamma , she said . 
We will play that you are my little girl . 
And Emily shall be your sister . 
Lottie's dimples all began to show themselves . 
Shall she ? she said . 
Yes , answered Sara , jumping to her feet . 
Let us go and tell her . 
And then I will wash your face and brush your hair . 
And from that time Sara was an adopted mother . 
Sara not only could tell stories , but she adored telling them . 
She forgot that she was talking to listening children she saw and lived with the fairy folk , or the kings and queens and beautiful ladies , whose adventures she was narrating . 
When I am telling it , she would say , it doesn't seem as if it was only made up . 
It seems more real than you are more real than the schoolroom . 
I feel as if I were all the people in the story one after the other . 
Something in the eagerness and timidity of the smudgy face made her look at it , and when she looked she smiled because it was her way to smile at people . 
But the owner of the smudgy face and the wide open eyes evidently was afraid that she ought not to have been caught looking at pupils of importance . 
She was cleaner than she had been when she peeped through the area railings , but she looked just as frightened . 
She was evidently afraid to look at the children or seem to be listening . 
She put on pieces of coal cautiously with her fingers so that she might make no disturbing noise , and she swept about the fire irons very softly . 
And realizing this , she raised her voice and spoke more clearly . 
The Mermaids swam softly about in the crystal green water , and dragged after them a fishing net woven of deep sea pearls , she said . 
The Princess sat on the white rock and watched them . 
It was a wonderful story about a princess who was loved by a Prince Merman , and went to live with him in shining caves under the sea . 
The small drudge before the grate swept the hearth once and then swept it again . 
She sat down upon her heels as she knelt on the hearth rug , and the brush hung idly in her fingers . 
The voice of the storyteller went on and drew her with it into winding grottos under the sea , glowing with soft , clear blue light , and paved with pure golden sands . 
Strange sea flowers and grasses waved about her , and far away faint singing and music echoed . 
The hearth brush fell from the work roughened hand , and Lavinia Herbert looked round . 
That girl has been listening , she said . 
The culprit snatched up her brush , and scrambled to her feet . 
She caught at the coal box and simply scuttled out of the room like a frightened rabbit . 
Sara felt rather hot tempered . 
I knew she was listening , she said . 
Why shouldn't she ? Lavinia tossed her head with great elegance . 
Well , she remarked , I do not know whether your mamma would like you to tell stories to servant girls , but I know MY mamma wouldn't like ME to do it . 
My mamma ! said Sara , looking odd . 
I don't believe she would mind in the least . 
She knows that stories belong to everybody . 
I thought , retorted Lavinia , in severe recollection , that your mamma was dead . 
How can she know things ? Do you think she DOESN'T know things ? said Sara , in her stern little voice . 
Sometimes she had a rather stern little voice . 
Sara's mamma knows everything , piped in Lottie . 
So does my mamma 'cept Sara is my mamma at Miss Minchin's my other one knows everything . 
The streets are shining , and there are fields and fields of lilies , and everybody gathers them . 
Sara tells me when she puts me to bed . 
You wicked thing , said Lavinia , turning on Sara making fairy stories about heaven . 
There are much more splendid stories in Revelation , returned Sara . 
And she marched out of the room , rather hoping that she might see the little servant again somewhere , but she found no trace of her when she got into the hall . 
Who is that little girl who makes the fires ? she asked Mariette that night . 
Mariette broke forth into a flow of description . 
Ah , indeed , Mademoiselle Sara might well ask . 
She was a forlorn little thing who had just taken the place of scullery maid though , as to being scullery maid , she was everything else besides . 
She blacked boots and grates , and carried heavy coal scuttles up and down stairs , and scrubbed floors and cleaned windows , and was ordered about by everybody . 
She was fourteen years old , but was so stunted in growth that she looked about twelve . 
In truth , Mariette was sorry for her . 
She was so timid that if one chanced to speak to her it appeared as if her poor , frightened eyes would jump out of her head . 
What is her name ? asked Sara , who had sat by the table , with her chin on her hands , as she listened absorbedly to the recital . 
Mariette heard everyone below stairs calling , Becky , do this , and Becky , do that , every five minutes in the day . 
Sara sat and looked into the fire , reflecting on Becky for some time after Mariette left her . 
She made up a story of which Becky was the ill used heroine . 
She thought she looked as if she had never had quite enough to eat . 
Her very eyes were hungry . 
But a few weeks later , on another foggy afternoon , when she entered her sitting room she found herself confronting a rather pathetic picture . 
She had been sent up to put the bedrooms in order for the evening . 
There were a great many of them , and she had been running about all day . 
Sara's rooms she had saved until the last . 
They were not like the other rooms , which were plain and bare . 
Ordinary pupils were expected to be satisfied with mere necessaries . 
Sara's comfortable sitting room seemed a bower of luxury to the scullery maid , though it was , in fact , merely a nice , bright little room . 
But she did not look poor Becky like a Sleeping Beauty at all . 
She looked only like an ugly , stunted , worn out little scullery drudge . 
Sara seemed as much unlike her as if she were a creature from another world . 
Today a frock the color of a rose had been put on her , and Mariette had bought some real buds and made her a wreath to wear on her black locks . 
When she entered the room , she floated in with a few of the butterfly steps and there sat Becky , nodding her cap sideways off her head . 
Oh ! cried Sara , softly , when she saw her . 
That poor thing ! It did not occur to her to feel cross at finding her pet chair occupied by the small , dingy figure . 
To tell the truth , she was quite glad to find it there . 
When the ill used heroine of her story wakened , she could talk to her . 
She crept toward her quietly , and stood looking at her . 
Becky gave a little snore . 
I wish she'd waken herself , Sara said . 
I don't like to waken her . 
But Miss Minchin would be cross if she found out . 
I'll just wait a few minutes . 
She took a seat on the edge of the table , and sat swinging her slim , rose colored legs , and wondering what it would be best to do . 
Miss Amelia might come in at any moment , and if she did , Becky would be sure to be scolded . 
But she is so tired , she thought . 
She is so tired ! A piece of flaming coal ended her perplexity for her that very moment . 
It broke off from a large lump and fell on to the fender . 
Becky started , and opened her eyes with a frightened gasp . 
She did not know she had fallen asleep . 
She sprang up and clutched at her cap . 
She felt it dangling over her ear , and tried wildly to put it straight . 
She made a sound like a big breathless sob . 
Oh , miss ! Oh , miss ! she stuttered . 
I arst yer pardon , miss ! Oh , I do , miss ! Sara jumped down , and came quite close to her . 
Don't be frightened , she said , quite as if she had been speaking to a little girl like herself . 
It doesn't matter the least bit . 
I didn't go to do it , miss , protested Becky . 
It was the warm fire an' me bein' so tired . 
It it WASN'T imper ence ! Sara broke into a friendly little laugh , and put her hand on her shoulder . 
You were tired , she said you could not help it . 
You are not really awake yet . 
How poor Becky stared at her ! In fact , she had never heard such a nice , friendly sound in anyone's voice before . 
She was used to being ordered about and scolded , and having her ears boxed . 
Ain't ain't yer angry , miss ? she gasped . 
Ain't yer goin' to tell the missus ? No , cried out Sara . 
The woeful fright in the coal smutted face made her suddenly so sorry that she could scarcely bear it . 
One of her queer thoughts rushed into her mind . 
She put her hand against Becky's cheek . 
Why , she said , we are just the same I am only a little girl like you . 
It's just an accident that I am not you , and you are not me ! Becky did not understand in the least . 
A' accident , miss , she fluttered respectfully . 
Is it ? Yes , Sara answered , and she looked at her dreamily for a moment . 
But the next she spoke in a different tone . 
She realized that Becky did not know what she meant . 
Have you done your work ? she asked . 
Dare you stay here a few minutes ? Becky lost her breath again . 
Here , miss ? Me ? Sara ran to the door , opened it , and looked out and listened . 
No one is anywhere about , she explained . 
If your bedrooms are finished , perhaps you might stay a tiny while . 
I thought perhaps you might like a piece of cake . 
The next ten minutes seemed to Becky like a sort of delirium . 
Sara opened a cupboard , and gave her a thick slice of cake . 
She seemed to rejoice when it was devoured in hungry bites . 
Is that she ventured , looking longingly at the rose colored frock . 
And she asked it almost in a whisper . 
Is that there your best ? It is one of my dancing frocks , answered Sara . 
I like it , don't you ? For a few seconds Becky was almost speechless with admiration . 
Then she said in an awed voice , Onct I see a princess . 
I was standin' in the street with the crowd outside Covin' Garden , watchin' the swells go inter the operer . 
An' there was one everyone stared at most . 
They ses to each other , That's the princess . 
She was a growed up young lady , but she was pink all over gownd an' cloak , an' flowers an' all . 
I called her to mind the minnit I see you , sittin' there on the table , miss . 
I've often thought , said Sara , in her reflecting voice , that I should like to be a princess I wonder what it feels like . 
I believe I will begin pretending I am one . 
Becky stared at her admiringly , and , as before , did not understand her in the least . 
She watched her with a sort of adoration . 
Very soon Sara left her reflections and turned to her with a new question . 
Becky , she said , weren't you listening to that story ? Yes , miss , confessed Becky , a little alarmed again . 
I knowed I hadn't orter , but it was that beautiful I I couldn't help it . 
I liked you to listen to it , said Sara . 
If you tell stories , you like nothing so much as to tell them to people who want to listen . 
I don't know why it is . 
Would you like to hear the rest ? Becky lost her breath again . 
Me hear it ? she cried . 
Like as if I was a pupil , miss ! All about the Prince and the little white Mer babies swimming about laughing with stars in their hair ? Sara nodded . 
It's a lovely long one and I'm always putting new bits to it . 
Then , breathed Becky , devoutly , I wouldn't mind HOW heavy the coal boxes was or WHAT the cook done to me , if if I might have that to think of . 
You may , said Sara . 
I'll tell it ALL to you . 
When Becky went downstairs , she was not the same Becky who had staggered up , loaded down by the weight of the coal scuttle . 
She had an extra piece of cake in her pocket , and she had been fed and warmed , but not only by cake and fire . 
Something else had warmed and fed her , and the something else was Sara . 
When she was gone Sara sat on her favorite perch on the end of her table . 
Her feet were on a chair , her elbows on her knees , and her chin in her hands . 
If I WAS a princess a REAL princess , she murmured , I could scatter largess to the populace . 
But even if I am only a pretend princess , I can invent little things to do for people . 
She was just as happy as if it was largess . 
I'll pretend that to do things people like is scattering largess . 
The Diamond Mines Not very long after this a very exciting thing happened . 
Not only Sara , but the entire school , found it exciting , and made it the chief subject of conversation for weeks after it occurred . 
In one of his letters Captain Crewe told a most interesting story . 
A friend who had been at school with him when he was a boy had unexpectedly come to see him in India . 
He was the owner of a large tract of land upon which diamonds had been found , and he was engaged in developing the mines . 
This , at least , was what Sara gathered from his letters . 
Ermengarde delighted in the story , and Lottie insisted on its being retold to her every evening . 
Lavinia was very spiteful about it , and told Jessie that she didn't believe such things as diamond mines existed . 
My mamma has a diamond ring which cost forty pounds , she said . 
And it is not a big one , either . 
If there were mines full of diamonds , people would be so rich it would be ridiculous . 
Perhaps Sara will be so rich that she will be ridiculous , giggled Jessie . 
She's ridiculous without being rich , Lavinia sniffed . 
I believe you hate her , said Jessie . 
No , I don't , snapped Lavinia . 
But I don't believe in mines full of diamonds . 
Well , people have to get them from somewhere , said Jessie . 
Lavinia , with a new giggle , what do you think Gertrude says ? I don't know , I'm sure and I don't care if it's something more about that everlasting Sara . 
One of her pretends' is that she is a princess . 
She plays it all the time even in school . 
She says it makes her learn her lessons better . 
She wants Ermengarde to be one , too , but Ermengarde says she is too fat . 
She IS too fat , said Lavinia . 
And Sara is too thin . 
Naturally , Jessie giggled again . 
She says it has nothing to do with what you look like , or what you have . 
It has only to do with what you THINK of , and what you DO . 
I suppose she thinks she could be a princess if she was a beggar , said Lavinia . 
Let us begin to call her Your Royal Highness . 
Lessons for the day were over , and they were sitting before the schoolroom fire , enjoying the time they liked best . 
It was the time when Miss Minchin and Miss Amelia were taking their tea in the sitting room sacred to themselves . 
When they made an uproar the older girls usually interfered with scolding and shakes . 
They were expected to keep order , and there was danger that if they did not , Miss Minchin or Miss Amelia would appear and put an end to festivities . 
Even as Lavinia spoke the door opened and Sara entered with Lottie , whose habit was to trot everywhere after her like a little dog . 
There she is , with that horrid child ! exclaimed Lavinia in a whisper . 
If she's so fond of her , why doesn't she keep her in her own room ? She will begin howling about something in five minutes . 
It happened that Lottie had been seized with a sudden desire to play in the schoolroom , and had begged her adopted parent to come with her . 
She joined a group of little ones who were playing in a corner . 
Sara curled herself up in the window seat , opened a book , and began to read . 
She was so far away from the schoolroom that it was not agreeable to be dragged back suddenly by a howl from Lottie . 
Never did she find anything so difficult as to keep herself from losing her temper when she was suddenly disturbed while absorbed in a book . 
People who are fond of books know the feeling of irritation which sweeps over them at such a moment . 
The temptation to be unreasonable and snappish is one not easy to manage . 
It makes me feel as if someone had hit me , Sara had told Ermengarde once in confidence . 
And as if I want to hit back . 
I have to remember things quickly to keep from saying something ill tempered . 
She had to remember things quickly when she laid her book on the window seat and jumped down from her comfortable corner . 
Lottie had been sliding across the schoolroom floor , and , having first irritated Lavinia and Jessie by making a noise , had ended by falling down and hurting her fat knee . 
She was screaming and dancing up and down in the midst of a group of friends and enemies , who were alternately coaxing and scolding her . 
Stop this minute , you cry baby ! Stop this minute ! Lavinia commanded . 
I'm not a cry baby . 
I'm not ! wailed Lottle . 
Sara , Sa ra ! If she doesn't stop , Miss Minchin will hear her , cried Jessie . 
Sara flew across the room and , kneeling down , put her arms round her . 
Now , Lottie , she said . 
Now , Lottie , you PROMISED Sara . 
She said I was a cry baby , wept Lottie . 
Sara patted her , but spoke in the steady voice Lottie knew . 
But if you cry , you will be one , Lottie pet . 
Lottle remembered that she had promised , but she preferred to lift up her voice . 
I haven't any mamma , she proclaimed . 
I haven't a bit of mamma . 
Yes , you have , said Sara , cheerfully . 
Have you forgotten ? Don't you know that Sara is your mamma ? Don't you want Sara for your mamma ? Lottie cuddled up to her with a consoled sniff . 
Come and sit in the window seat with me , Sara went on , and I'll whisper a story to you . 
Will you ? whimpered Lottie . 
Will you tell me about the diamond mines ? The diamond mines ? broke out Lavinia . 
Nasty , little spoiled thing , I should like to SLAP her ! Sara got up quickly on her feet . 
She was not an angel , and she was not fond of Lavinia . 
Well , she said , with some fire , I should like to slap YOU but I don't want to slap you ! restraining herself . 
At least I both want to slap you and I should LIKE to slap you but I WON'T slap you . 
We are not little gutter children . 
We are both old enough to know better . 
Ah , yes , your royal highness , she said . 
We are princesses , I believe . 
At least one of us is . 
The school ought to be very fashionable now Miss Minchin has a princess for a pupil . 
She looked as if she were going to box her ears . 
Her trick of pretending things was the joy of her life . 
She never spoke of it to girls she was not fond of . 
Her new pretend about being a princess was very near to her heart , and she was shy and sensitive about it . 
She had meant it to be rather a secret , and here was Lavinia deriding it before nearly all the school . 
She felt the blood rush up into her face and tingle in her ears . 
She only just saved herself . 
If you were a princess , you did not fly into rages . 
Her hand dropped , and she stood quite still a moment . 
When she spoke it was in a quiet , steady voice she held her head up , and everybody listened to her . 
It's true , she said . 
Sometimes I do pretend I am a princess . 
I pretend I am a princess , so that I can try and behave like one . 
Lavinia could not think of exactly the right thing to say . 
Several times she had found that she could not think of a satisfactory reply when she was dealing with Sara . 
The reason for this was that , somehow , the rest always seemed to be vaguely in sympathy with her opponent . 
She saw now that they were pricking up their ears interestedly . 
The truth was , they liked princesses , and they all hoped they might hear something more definite about this one , and drew nearer Sara accordingly . 
Lavinia could only invent one remark , and it fell rather flat . 
To Becky it seemed the most appropriate thing in the world . 
But I has to eat 'em careful , miss , she said once 'cos if I leaves crumbs the rats come out to get 'em . 
Rats ! exclaimed Sara , in horror . 
Are there RATS there ? Lots of 'em , miss , Becky answered in quite a matter of fact manner . 
There mostly is rats an' mice in attics . 
You gets used to the noise they makes scuttling about . 
I've got so I don't mind 'em s' long as they don't run over my piller . 
You gets used to anythin' after a bit , said Becky . 
You have to , miss , if you're born a scullery maid . 
I'd rather have rats than cockroaches . 
So would I , said Sara I suppose you might make friends with a rat in time , but I don't believe I should like to make friends with a cockroach . 
The search for and discovery of satisfying things to eat which could be packed into small compass , added a new interest to Sara's existence . 
When she drove or walked out , she used to look into shop windows eagerly . 
The first time it occurred to her to bring home two or three little meat pies , she felt that she had hit upon a discovery . 
When she exhibited them , Becky's eyes quite sparkled . 
Oh , miss ! she murmured . 
Them will be nice an' fillin . 
Sponge cake's a 'evenly thing , but it melts away like if you understand , miss . 
These'll just STAY in yer stummick . 
Well , hesitated Sara , I don't think it would be good if they stayed always , but I do believe they will be satisfying . 
They were satisfying and so were beef sandwiches , bought at a cook shop and so were rolls and Bologna sausage . 
In time , Becky began to lose her hungry , tired feeling , and the coal box did not seem so unbearably heavy . 
In fact , the mere seeing of Miss Sara would have been enough without meat pies . 
Becky had scarcely known what laughter was through all her poor , little hard driven life . 
Sara made her laugh , and laughed with her and , though neither of them quite knew it , the laughter was as fillin' as the meat pies . 
A few weeks before Sara's eleventh birthday a letter came to her from her father , which did not seem to be written in such boyish high spirits as usual . 
He was not very well , and was evidently overweighted by the business connected with the diamond mines . 
You see , little Sara , he wrote , your daddy is not a businessman at all , and figures and documents bother him . 
He does not really understand them , and all this seems so enormous . 
Perhaps , if I was not feverish I should not be awake , tossing about , one half of the night and spend the other half in troublesome dreams . 
If my little missus were here , I dare say she would give me some solemn , good advice . 
You would , wouldn't you , Little Missus ? One of his many jokes had been to call her his little missus because she had such an old fashioned air . 
He had made wonderful preparations for her birthday . 
Among other things , a new doll had been ordered in Paris , and her wardrobe was to be , indeed , a marvel of splendid perfection . 
When she had replied to the letter asking her if the doll would be an acceptable present , Sara had been very quaint . 
I am getting very old , she wrote you see , I shall never live to have another doll given me . 
This will be my last doll . 
There is something solemn about it . 
If I could write poetry , I am sure a poem about A Last Doll' would be very nice . 
But I cannot write poetry . 
I have tried , and it made me laugh . 
It did not sound like Watts or Coleridge or Shake speare at all . 
No one could ever take Emily's place , but I should respect the Last Doll very much and I am sure the school would love it . 
They all like dolls , though some of the big ones the almost fifteen ones pretend they are too grown up . 
Captain Crewe had a splitting headache when he read this letter in his bungalow in India . 
The table before him was heaped with papers and letters which were alarming him and filling him with anxious dread , but he laughed as he had not laughed for weeks . 
Oh , he said , she's better fun every year she lives . 
God grant this business may right itself and leave me free to run home and see her . 
What wouldn't I give to have her little arms round my neck this minute ! What WOULDN'T I give ! The birthday was to be celebrated by great festivities . 
The schoolroom was to be decorated , and there was to be a party . 
The boxes containing the presents were to be opened with great ceremony , and there was to be a glittering feast spread in Miss Minchin's sacred room . 
When the day arrived the whole house was in a whirl of excitement . 
How the morning passed nobody quite knew , because there seemed such preparations to be made . 
When Sara went into her sitting room in the morning , she found on the table a small , dumpy package , tied up in a piece of brown paper . 
She knew it was a present , and she thought she could guess whom it came from . 
She opened it quite tenderly . 
It was a square pincushion , made of not quite clean red flannel , and black pins had been stuck carefully into it to form the words , Menny hapy returns . 
Oh ! cried Sara , with a warm feeling in her heart . 
What pains she has taken ! I like it so , it it makes me feel sorrowful . 
But the next moment she was mystified . 
On the under side of the pincushion was secured a card , bearing in neat letters the name Miss Amelia Minchin . 
Sara turned it over and over . 
Miss Amelia ! she said to herself How CAN it be ! And just at that very moment she heard the door being cautiously pushed open and saw Becky peeping round it . 
There was an affectionate , happy grin on her face , and she shuffled forward and stood nervously pulling at her fingers . 
Do yer like it , Miss Sara ? she said . 
Do yer ? Like it ? cried Sara . 
You darling Becky , you made it all yourself . 
Becky gave a hysteric but joyful sniff , and her eyes looked quite moist with delight . 
It ain't nothin' but flannin , an' the flannin ain't new but I wanted to give yer somethin' an' I made it of nights . 
I knew yer could PRETEND it was satin with diamond pins in . 
I tried to when I was makin' it . 
The card , miss , rather doubtfully 't warn't wrong of me to pick it up out o' the dust bin , was it ? Miss 'Meliar had throwed it away . 
I hadn't no card o' my own , an' I knowed it wouldn't be a proper presink if I didn't pin a card on so I pinned Miss 'Meliar's . 
Sara flew at her and hugged her . 
She could not have told herself or anyone else why there was a lump in her throat . 
Oh , Becky ! she cried out , with a queer little laugh , I love you , Becky I do , I do ! Oh , miss ! breathed Becky . 
Thank yer , miss , kindly it ain't good enough for that . 
The the flannin wasn't new . 
The Diamond Mines Again When Sara entered the holly hung schoolroom in the afternoon , she did so as the head of a sort of procession . 
Miss Minchin , in her grandest silk dress , led her by the hand . 
This is not an ordinary occasion , she said . 
I do not desire that it should be treated as one . 
Silence , young ladies ! said Miss Minchin , at the murmur which arose . 
James , place the box on the table and remove the lid . 
Emma , put yours upon a chair . 
Becky ! suddenly and severely . 
Becky had quite forgotten herself in her excitement , and was grinning at Lottie , who was wriggling with rapturous expectation . 
She almost dropped her box , the disapproving voice so startled her , and her frightened , bobbing curtsy of apology was so funny that Lavinia and Jessie tittered . 
It is not your place to look at the young ladies , said Miss Minchin . 
Becky obeyed with alarmed haste and hastily backed toward the door . 
You may leave us , Miss Minchin announced to the servants with a wave of her hand . 
Becky stepped aside respectfully to allow the superior servants to pass out first . 
She could not help casting a longing glance at the box on the table . 
Something made of blue satin was peeping from between the folds of tissue paper . 
If you please , Miss Minchin , said Sara , suddenly , mayn't Becky stay ? It was a bold thing to do . 
Miss Minchin was betrayed into something like a slight jump . 
Then she put her eyeglass up , and gazed at her show pupil disturbedly . 
My dearest Sara ! Sara advanced a step toward her . 
I want her because I know she will like to see the presents , she explained . 
She is a little girl , too , you know . 
She glanced from one figure to the other . 
My dear Sara , she said , Becky is the scullery maid . 
Scullery maids er are not little girls . 
It really had not occurred to her to think of them in that light . 
Scullery maids were machines who carried coal scuttles and made fires . 
But Becky is , said Sara . 
And I know she would enjoy herself . 
Please let her stay because it is my birthday . 
Miss Minchin replied with much dignity As you ask it as a birthday favor she may stay . 
Rebecca , thank Miss Sara for her great kindness . 
Becky had been backing into the corner , twisting the hem of her apron in delighted suspense . 
She came forward , bobbing curtsies , but between Sara's eyes and her own there passed a gleam of friendly understanding , while her words tumbled over each other . 
Oh , if you please , miss ! I'm that grateful , miss ! I did want to see the doll , miss , that I did . 
And thank you , ma'am , turning and making an alarmed bob to Miss Minchin for letting me take the liberty . 
Miss Minchin waved her hand again this time it was in the direction of the corner near the door . 
Go and stand there , she commanded . 
Not too near the young ladies . 
Becky went to her place , grinning . 
She did not even mind when Miss Minchin cleared her throat ominously and spoke again . 
Now , young ladies , I have a few words to say to you , she announced . 
She's going to make a speech , whispered one of the girls . 
I wish it was over . 
As this was her party , it was probable that the speech was about her . 
It is not agreeable to stand in a schoolroom and have a speech made about you . 
You are aware , young ladies , the speech began for it was a speech that dear Sara is eleven years old today . 
DEAR Sara ! murmured Lavinia . 
Several of you here have also been eleven years old , but Sara's birthdays are rather different from other little girls' birthdays . 
When she is older she will be heiress to a large fortune , which it will be her duty to spend in a meritorious manner . 
The diamond mines , giggled Jessie , in a whisper . 
Sara did not hear her but as she stood with her green gray eyes fixed steadily on Miss Minchin , she felt herself growing rather hot . 
When Miss Minchin talked about money , she felt somehow that she always hated her and , of course , it was disrespectful to hate grown up people . 
My reply was , Her education at my seminary , Captain Crewe , shall be such as will adorn the largest fortune . 
Sara has become my most accomplished pupil . 
Her French and her dancing are a credit to the seminary . 
Her manners which have caused you to call her Princess Sara are perfect . 
Her amiability she exhibits by giving you this afternoon's party . 
I hope you appreciate her generosity . 
Thank you , Sara ! it said , and it must be confessed that Lottie jumped up and down . 
Sara looked rather shy for a moment . 
She made a curtsy and it was a very nice one . 
Thank you , she said , for coming to my party . 
Very pretty , indeed , Sara , approved Miss Minchin . 
That is what a real princess does when the populace applauds her . 
Lavinia scathingly the sound you just made was extremely like a snort . 
If you are jealous of your fellow pupil , I beg you will express your feelings in some more lady like manner . 
Now I will leave you to enjoy yourselves . 
The instant she had swept out of the room the spell her presence always had upon them was broken . 
The door had scarcely closed before every seat was empty . 
The little girls jumped or tumbled out of theirs the older ones wasted no time in deserting theirs . 
There was a rush toward the boxes . 
Sara had bent over one of them with a delighted face . 
These are books , I know , she said . 
The little children broke into a rueful murmur , and Ermengarde looked aghast . 
Does your papa send you books for a birthday present ? she exclaimed . 
Why , he's as bad as mine . 
Don't open them , Sara . 
I like them , Sara laughed , but she turned to the biggest box . 
When she took out the Last Doll it was so magnificent that the children uttered delighted groans of joy , and actually drew back to gaze at it in breathless rapture . 
She is almost as big as Lottie , someone gasped . 
Lottie clapped her hands and danced about , giggling . 
She's dressed for the theater , said Lavinia . 
Her cloak is lined with ermine . 
Oh , cried Ermengarde , darting forward , she has an opera glass in her hand a blue and gold one ! Here is her trunk , said Sara . 
Let us open it and look at her things . 
She sat down upon the floor and turned the key . 
The children crowded clamoring around her , as she lifted tray after tray and revealed their contents . 
Never had the schoolroom been in such an uproar . 
Even Lavinia and Jessie forgot that they were too elderly to care for dolls , and uttered exclamations of delight and caught up things to look at them . 
You are always supposing things , said Lavinia , and her air was very superior . 
I know I am , answered Sara , undisturbedly . 
There is nothing so nice as supposing . 
It's almost like being a fairy . 
If you suppose anything hard enough it seems as if it were real . 
It's all very well to suppose things if you have everything , said Lavinia . 
Could you suppose and pretend if you were a beggar and lived in a garret ? Sara stopped arranging the Last Doll's ostrich plumes , and looked thoughtful . 
I BELIEVE I could , she said . 
If one was a beggar , one would have to suppose and pretend all the time . 
But it mightn't be easy . 
She often thought afterward how strange it was that just as she had finished saying this just at that very moment Miss Amelia came into the room . 
Refreshments were not likely to be disdained at any hour , and many pairs of eyes gleamed . 
Becky , who was not expected to partake of refreshments , had the indiscretion to linger a moment to look at these beauties it really was an indiscretion . 
Miss Minchin came into the room , accompanied by a sharp featured , dry little gentleman , who looked rather disturbed . 
Miss Minchin herself also looked rather disturbed , it must be admitted , and she gazed at the dry little gentleman with an irritated and puzzled expression . 
She sat down with stiff dignity , and waved him to a chair . 
Pray , be seated , Mr. Barrow , she said . 
Mr. Barrow did not sit down at once . 
His attention seemed attracted by the Last Doll and the things which surrounded her . 
He settled his eyeglasses and looked at them in nervous disapproval . 
The Last Doll herself did not seem to mind this in the least . 
She merely sat upright and returned his gaze indifferently . 
A hundred pounds , Mr. Barrow remarked succinctly . 
All expensive material , and made at a Parisian modiste's . 
He spent money lavishly enough , that young man . 
This seemed to be a disparagement of her best patron and was a liberty . 
Even solicitors had no right to take liberties . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. Barrow , she said stiffly . 
Birthday presents , said Mr. Barrow in the same critical manner , to a child eleven years old ! Mad extravagance , I call it . 
Miss Minchin drew herself up still more rigidly . 
Captain Crewe is a man of fortune , she said . 
The diamond mines alone Mr. Barrow wheeled round upon her . 
Diamond mines ! he broke out . 
There are none ! Never were ! Miss Minchin actually got up from her chair . 
What do you mean ? At any rate , answered Mr. Barrow , quite snappishly , it would have been much better if there never had been any . 
Any diamond mines ? ejaculated Miss Minchin , catching at the back of a chair and feeling as if a splendid dream was fading away from her . 
Diamond mines spell ruin oftener than they spell wealth , said Mr. Barrow . 
The late Captain Crewe Here Miss Minchin stopped him with a gasp . 
The LATE Captain Crewe ! she cried out . 
The LATE ! You don't come to tell me that Captain Crewe is He's dead , ma'am , Mr. Barrow answered with jerky brusqueness . 
Died of jungle fever and business troubles combined . 
Captain Crewe is dead ! Miss Minchin dropped into her chair again . 
The words he had spoken filled her with alarm . 
What WERE his business troubles ? she said . 
What WERE they ? Diamond mines , answered Mr. Barrow , and dear friends and ruin . 
Miss Minchin lost her breath . 
Ruin ! she gasped out . 
That young man had too much money . 
The dear friend was mad on the subject of the diamond mine . 
He put all his own money into it , and all Captain Crewe's . 
Then the dear friend ran away Captain Crewe was already stricken with fever when the news came . 
The shock was too much for him . 
He died delirious , raving about his little girl and didn't leave a penny . 
Now Miss Minchin understood , and never had she received such a blow in her life . 
Her show pupil , her show patron , swept away from the Select Seminary at one blow . 
She felt as if she had been outraged and robbed , and that Captain Crewe and Sara and Mr. Barrow were equally to blame . 
She is certainly left a beggar , he replied . 
And she is certainly left on your hands , ma'am as she hasn't a relation in the world that we know of . 
She looked as if she was going to open the door and rush out of the room to stop the festivities going on joyfully and rather noisily that moment over the refreshments . 
It is monstrous ! she said . 
She's in my sitting room at this moment , dressed in silk gauze and lace petticoats , giving a party at my expense . 
She's giving it at your expense , madam , if she's giving it , said Mr. Barrow , calmly . 
Barrow Skipworth are not responsible for anything . 
There never was a cleaner sweep made of a man's fortune . 
Captain Crewe died without paying OUR last bill and it was a big one . 
Miss Minchin turned back from the door in increased indignation . 
This was worse than anyone could have dreamed of its being . 
That is what has happened to me ! she cried . 
I was always so sure of his payments that I went to all sorts of ridiculous expenses for the child . 
I paid the bills for that ridiculous doll and her ridiculous fantastic wardrobe . 
The child was to have anything she wanted . 
She has a carriage and a pony and a maid , and I've paid for all of them since the last cheque came . 
Mr. Barrow evidently did not intend to remain to listen to the story of Miss Minchin's grievances after he had made the position of his firm clear and related the mere dry facts . 
He did not feel any particular sympathy for irate keepers of boarding schools . 
You had better not pay for anything more , ma'am , he remarked , unless you want to make presents to the young lady . 
No one will remember you . 
She hasn't a brass farthing to call her own . 
But what am I to do ? demanded Miss Minchin , as if she felt it entirely his duty to make the matter right . 
What am I to do ? There isn't anything to do , said Mr. Barrow , folding up his eyeglasses and slipping them into his pocket . 
The child is left a pauper . 
Nobody is responsible for her but you . 
I am not responsible for her , and I refuse to be made responsible ! Miss Minchin became quite white with rage . 
Mr. Barrow turned to go . 
I have nothing to do with that , madam , he said un interestedly . 
Barrow Skipworth are not responsible . 
Very sorry the thing has happened , of course . 
If you think she is to be foisted off on me , you are greatly mistaken , Miss Minchin gasped . 
I have been robbed and cheated I will turn her into the street ! If she had not been so furious , she would have been too discreet to say quite so much . 
She saw herself burdened with an extravagantly brought up child whom she had always resented , and she lost all self control . 
Mr. Barrow undisturbedly moved toward the door . 
I wouldn't do that , madam , he commented it wouldn't look well . 
Unpleasant story to get about in connection with the establishment . 
Pupil bundled out penniless and without friends . 
He was a clever business man , and he knew what he was saying . 
He also knew that Miss Minchin was a business woman , and would be shrewd enough to see the truth . 
She could not afford to do a thing which would make people speak of her as cruel and hard hearted . 
Better keep her and make use of her , he added . 
She's a clever child , I believe . 
You can get a good deal out of her as she grows older . 
I will get a good deal out of her before she grows older ! exclaimed Miss Minchin . 
I am sure you will , ma'am , said Mr. Barrow , with a little sinister smile . 
I am sure you will . 
Good morning ! He bowed himself out and closed the door , and it must be confessed that Miss Minchin stood for a few moments and glared at it . 
What he had said was quite true . 
She had absolutely no redress . 
Her show pupil had melted into nothingness , leaving only a friendless , beggared little girl . 
Such money as she herself had advanced was lost and could not be regained . 
She could at least stop this . 
But as she started toward the door it was opened by Miss Amelia , who , when she caught sight of the changed , angry face , fell back a step in alarm . 
What IS the matter , sister ? she ejaculated . 
Miss Minchin's voice was almost fierce when she answered Where is Sara Crewe ? Miss Amelia was bewildered . 
Why , she's with the children in your room , of course . 
Has she a black frock in her sumptuous wardrobe ? in bitter irony . 
A black frock ? Miss Amelia stammered again . 
A BLACK one ? She has frocks of every other color . 
Has she a black one ? Miss Amelia began to turn pale . 
No ye es ! she said . 
But it is too short for her . 
She has only the old black velvet , and she has outgrown it . 
Go and tell her to take off that preposterous pink silk gauze , and put the black one on , whether it is too short or not . 
She has done with finery ! Then Miss Amelia began to wring her fat hands and cry . 
Oh , sister ! she sniffed . 
Oh , sister ! What CAN have happened ? Miss Minchin wasted no words . 
Captain Crewe is dead , she said . 
He has died without a penny . 
That spoiled , pampered , fanciful child is left a pauper on my hands . 
Miss Amelia sat down quite heavily in the nearest chair . 
Hundreds of pounds have I spent on nonsense for her . 
And I shall never see a penny of it . 
Put a stop to this ridiculous party of hers . 
Go and make her change her frock at once . 
I ? panted Miss Amelia . 
M must I go and tell her now ? This moment ! was the fierce answer . 
Don't sit staring like a goose . 
Go ! Poor Miss Amelia was accustomed to being called a goose . 
She knew , in fact , that she was rather a goose , and that it was left to geese to do a great many disagreeable things . 
But the thing must be done . 
This was evidently not the time when questions might be asked . 
She rubbed her eyes with her handkerchief until they looked quite red . 
After which she got up and went out of the room , without venturing to say another word . 
When her older sister looked and spoke as she had done just now , the wisest course to pursue was to obey orders without any comment . 
Miss Minchin walked across the room . 
She spoke to herself aloud without knowing that she was doing it . 
During the last year the story of the diamond mines had suggested all sorts of possibilities to her . 
Even proprietors of seminaries might make fortunes in stocks , with the aid of owners of mines . 
And now , instead of looking forward to gains , she was left to look back upon losses . 
The Princess Sara , indeed ! she said . 
The child has been pampered as if she were a QUEEN . 
What is that ! she exclaimed angrily . 
The loud , sobbing sniff was heard again , and she stooped and raised the hanging folds of the table cover . 
How DARE you ! she cried out . 
How dare you ! Come out immediately ! It was poor Becky who crawled out , and her cap was knocked on one side , and her face was red with repressed crying . 
If you please , 'm it's me , mum , she explained . 
I know I hadn't ought to . 
But I was lookin' at the doll , mum an' I was frightened when you come in an' slipped under the table . 
You have been there all the time , listening , said Miss Minchin . 
No , mum , Becky protested , bobbing curtsies . 
Not listenin' I thought I could slip out without your noticin' , but I couldn't an' I had to stay . 
But I didn't listen , mum I wouldn't for nothin' . 
But I couldn't help hearin' . 
Suddenly it seemed almost as if she lost all fear of the awful lady before her . 
She burst into fresh tears . 
Becky curtsied again , the tears openly streaming down her cheeks . 
Oh , breaking out afresh , poor little Miss Sara , mum that was called a princess . 
Somehow , she made Miss Minchin feel more angry than ever . 
That the very scullery maid should range herself on the side of this child whom she realized more fully than ever that she had never liked was too much . 
She actually stamped her foot . 
No certainly not , she said . 
She will wait on herself , and on other people , too . 
Leave the room this instant , or you'll leave your place . 
Becky threw her apron over her head and fled . 
She ran out of the room and down the steps into the scullery , and there she sat down among her pots and kettles , and wept as if her heart would break . 
It's exactly like the ones in the stories , she wailed . 
Them pore princess ones that was drove into the world . 
Miss Minchin had never looked quite so still and hard as she did when Sara came to her , a few hours later , in response to a message she had sent her . 
Every sign of the festivities had been swept away the holly had been removed from the schoolroom walls , and the forms and desks put back into their places . 
Miss Minchin's sitting room looked as it always did all traces of the feast were gone , and Miss Minchin had resumed her usual dress . 
The pupils had been ordered to lay aside their party frocks and this having been done , they had returned to the schoolroom and huddled together in groups , whispering and talking excitedly . 
Tell Sara to come to my room , Miss Minchin had said to her sister . 
And explain to her clearly that I will have no crying or unpleasant scenes . 
Sister , replied Miss Amelia , she is the strangest child I ever saw . 
She has actually made no fuss at all . 
You remember she made none when Captain Crewe went back to India . 
When I told her what had happened , she just stood quite still and looked at me without making a sound . 
Her eyes seemed to get bigger and bigger , and she went quite pale . 
Several of the other children began to cry , but she did not seem to hear them or to be alive to anything but just what I was saying . 
It made me feel quite queer not to be answered and when you tell anything sudden and strange , you expect people will say SOMETHING whatever it is . 
Nobody but Sara herself ever knew what had happened in her room after she had run upstairs and locked her door . 
When she came into Miss Minchin's sitting room in answer to her summons , her face was white and her eyes had dark rings around them . 
Her mouth was set as if she did not wish it to reveal what she had suffered and was suffering . 
She did not look in the least like the rose colored butterfly child who had flown about from one of her treasures to the other in the decorated schoolroom . 
She looked instead a strange , desolate , almost grotesque little figure . 
She had put on , without Mariette's help , the cast aside black velvet frock . 
It was too short and tight , and her slender legs looked long and thin , showing themselves from beneath the brief skirt . 
As she had not found a piece of black ribbon , her short , thick , black hair tumbled loosely about her face and contrasted strongly with its pallor . 
She held Emily tightly in one arm , and Emily was swathed in a piece of black material . 
Put down your doll , said Miss Minchin . 
What do you mean by bringing her here ? No , Sara answered . 
I will not put her down . 
She is all I have . 
My papa gave her to me . 
She had always made Miss Minchin feel secretly uncomfortable , and she did so now . 
You will have no time for dolls in future , she said . 
You will have to work and improve yourself and make yourself useful . 
Sara kept her big , strange eyes fixed on her , and said not a word . 
Everything will be very different now , Miss Minchin went on . 
I suppose Miss Amelia has explained matters to you . 
He left me no money . 
You are a beggar , said Miss Minchin , her temper rising at the recollection of what all this meant . 
It appears that you have no relations and no home , and no one to take care of you . 
For a moment the thin , pale little face twitched , but Sara again said nothing . 
What are you staring at ? demanded Miss Minchin , sharply . 
I understand , answered Sara , in a low tone and there was a sound as if she had gulped down something which rose in her throat . 
The Last Doll , she said . 
And her little mournful voice had an odd sound . 
The Last Doll , indeed ! said Miss Minchin . 
And she is mine , not yours . 
Everything you own is mine . 
Please take it away from me , then , said Sara . 
I do not want it . 
If she had cried and sobbed and seemed frightened , Miss Minchin might almost have had more patience with her . 
Don't put on grand airs , she said . 
The time for that sort of thing is past . 
You are not a princess any longer . 
Your carriage and your pony will be sent away your maid will be dismissed . 
You will wear your oldest and plainest clothes your extravagant ones are no longer suited to your station . 
You are like Becky you must work for your living . 
To her surprise , a faint gleam of light came into the child's eyes a shade of relief . 
Can I work ? she said . 
If I can work it will not matter so much . 
What can I do ? You can do anything you are told , was the answer . 
You are a sharp child , and pick up things readily . 
If you make yourself useful I may let you stay here . 
You speak French well , and you can help with the younger children . 
May I ? exclaimed Sara . 
Oh , please let me ! I know I can teach them . 
I like them , and they like me . 
Don't talk nonsense about people liking you , said Miss Minchin . 
You will have to do more than teach the little ones . 
You will run errands and help in the kitchen as well as in the schoolroom . 
If you don't please me , you will be sent away . 
Sara stood still just a moment , looking at her . 
In her young soul , she was thinking deep and strange things . 
Then she turned to leave the room . 
Stop ! said Miss Minchin . 
Don't you intend to thank me ? Sara paused , and all the deep , strange thoughts surged up in her breast . 
What for ? she said . 
For my kindness to you , replied Miss Minchin . 
For my kindness in giving you a home . 
Sara made two or three steps toward her . 
Her thin little chest heaved up and down , and she spoke in a strange un childishly fierce way . 
You are not kind , she said . 
You are NOT kind , and it is NOT a home . 
And she had turned and run out of the room before Miss Minchin could stop her or do anything but stare after her with stony anger . 
She went up the stairs slowly , but panting for breath and she held Emily tightly against her side . 
I wish she could talk , she said to herself . 
But just before she reached the landing Miss Amelia came out of the door and closed it behind her , and stood before it , looking nervous and awkward . 
The truth was that she felt secretly ashamed of the thing she had been ordered to do . 
You you are not to go in there , she said . 
Not go in ? exclaimed Sara , and she fell back a pace . 
That is not your room now , Miss Amelia answered , reddening a little . 
Somehow , all at once , Sara understood . 
She realized that this was the beginning of the change Miss Minchin had spoken of . 
Where is my room ? she asked , hoping very much that her voice did not shake . 
You are to sleep in the attic next to Becky . 
Sara knew where it was . 
Becky had told her about it . 
She turned , and mounted up two flights of stairs . 
The last one was narrow , and covered with shabby strips of old carpet . 
She felt as if she were walking away and leaving far behind her the world in which that other child , who no longer seemed herself , had lived . 
This child , in her short , tight old frock , climbing the stairs to the attic , was quite a different creature . 
When she reached the attic door and opened it , her heart gave a dreary little thump . 
Then she shut the door and stood against it and looked about her . 
Yes , this was another world . 
The room had a slanting roof and was whitewashed . 
The whitewash was dingy and had fallen off in places . 
There was a rusty grate , an old iron bedstead , and a hard bed covered with a faded coverlet . 
Some pieces of furniture too much worn to be used downstairs had been sent up . 
Under the skylight in the roof , which showed nothing but an oblong piece of dull gray sky , there stood an old battered red footstool . 
Sara went to it and sat down . 
She did not cry now . 
It was Becky's face , and Becky had been crying furtively for hours and rubbing her eyes with her kitchen apron until she looked strange indeed . 
Oh , miss , she said under her breath . 
Might I would you allow me jest to come in ? Sara lifted her head and looked at her . 
She tried to begin a smile , and somehow she could not . 
Suddenly and it was all through the loving mournfulness of Becky's streaming eyes her face looked more like a child's not so much too old for her years . 
She held out her hand and gave a little sob . 
Oh , Becky , she said . 
I told you we were just the same only two little girls just two little girls . 
You see how true it is . 
I'm not a princess anymore . 
Becky ran to her and caught her hand , and hugged it to her breast , kneeling beside her and sobbing with love and pain . 
Yes , miss , you are , she cried , and her words were all broken . 
Whats'ever 'appens to you whats'ever you'd be a princess all the same an' nothin' couldn't make you nothin' different . 
In the Attic The first night she spent in her attic was a thing Sara never forgot . 
During its passing she lived through a wild , unchildlike woe of which she never spoke to anyone about her . 
There was no one who would have understood . 
It was , indeed , well for her that as she lay awake in the darkness her mind was forcibly distracted , now and then , by the strangeness of her surroundings . 
It was , perhaps , well for her that she was reminded by her small body of material things . 
If this had not been so , the anguish of her young mind might have been too great for a child to bear . 
But , really , while the night was passing she scarcely knew that she had a body at all or remembered any other thing than one . 
My papa is dead ! she kept whispering to herself . 
Then there was something worse . 
This was certain scufflings and scratchings and squeakings in the walls and behind the skirting boards . 
She knew what they meant , because Becky had described them . 
They meant rats and mice who were either fighting with each other or playing together . 
The change in her life did not come about gradually , but was made all at once . 
She must begin as she is to go on , Miss Minchin said to Miss Amelia . 
She must be taught at once what she is to expect . 
Mariette had left the house the next morning . 
The glimpse Sara caught of her sitting room , as she passed its open door , showed her that everything had been changed . 
Her ornaments and luxuries had been removed , and a bed had been placed in a corner to transform it into a new pupil's bedroom . 
When she went down to breakfast she saw that her seat at Miss Minchin's side was occupied by Lavinia , and Miss Minchin spoke to her coldly . 
You will begin your new duties , Sara , she said , by taking your seat with the younger children at a smaller table . 
You must keep them quiet , and see that they behave well and do not waste their food . 
You ought to have been down earlier . 
Lottie has already upset her tea . 
That was the beginning , and from day to day the duties given to her were added to . 
She taught the younger children French and heard their other lessons , and these were the least of her labors . 
It was found that she could be made use of in numberless directions . 
She could be sent on errands at any time and in all weathers . 
She could be told to do things other people neglected . 
The cook and the housemaids took their tone from Miss Minchin , and rather enjoyed ordering about the young one who had been made so much fuss over for so long . 
In her proud little heart she wanted them to see that she was trying to earn her living and not accepting charity . 
An ordinary errand boy would not have been so clever and reliable . 
Sara could be trusted with difficult commissions and complicated messages . 
She could even go and pay bills , and she combined with this the ability to dust a room well and to set things in order . 
Her own lessons became things of the past . 
If I do not remind myself of the things I have learned , perhaps I may forget them , she said to herself . 
I am almost a scullery maid , and if I am a scullery maid who knows nothing , I shall be like poor Becky . 
I wonder if I could QUITE forget and begin to drop my H'S and not remember that Henry the Eighth had six wives . 
One of the most curious things in her new existence was her changed position among the pupils . 
Instead of being a sort of small royal personage among them , she no longer seemed to be one of their number at all . 
I will not have her forming intimacies and talking to the other children , that lady said . 
Girls like a grievance , and if she begins to tell romantic stories about herself , she will become an ill used heroine , and parents will be given a wrong impression . 
It is better that she should live a separate life one suited to her circumstances . 
I am giving her a home , and that is more than she has any right to expect from me . 
Sara did not expect much , and was far too proud to try to continue to be intimate with girls who evidently felt rather awkward and uncertain about her . 
The fact was that Miss Minchin's pupils were a set of dull , matter of fact young people . 
To think that she was the girl with the diamond mines , Lavinia commented . 
She does look an object . 
And she's queerer than ever . 
I never liked her much , but I can't bear that way she has now of looking at people without speaking just as if she was finding them out . 
I am , said Sara , promptly , when she heard of this . 
That's what I look at some people for . 
I like to know about them . 
I think them over afterward . 
Sara never made any mischief herself , or interfered with anyone . 
Soldiers don't complain , she would say between her small , shut teeth , I am not going to do it I will pretend this is part of a war . 
But there were hours when her child heart might almost have broken with loneliness but for three people . 
The first , it must be owned , was Becky just Becky . 
And during the nights that followed the sense of comfort grew . 
They had little chance to speak to each other during the day . 
Each had her own tasks to perform , and any attempt at conversation would have been regarded as a tendency to loiter and lose time . 
Don't mind me , miss , Becky whispered during the first morning , if I don't say nothin' polite . 
Some un'd be down on us if I did . 
I MEANS please' an' thank you' an' beg pardon , but I dassn't to take time to say it . 
But before daybreak she used to slip into Sara's attic and button her dress and give her such help as she required before she went downstairs to light the kitchen fire . 
And when night came Sara always heard the humble knock at her door which meant that her handmaid was ready to help her again if she was needed . 
Becky's heart told her that it was best that people in trouble should be left alone . 
The second of the trio of comforters was Ermengarde , but odd things happened before Ermengarde found her place . 
When Sara's mind seemed to awaken again to the life about her , she realized that she had forgotten that an Ermengarde lived in the world . 
The two had always been friends , but Sara had felt as if she were years the older . 
It could not be contested that Ermengarde was as dull as she was affectionate . 
But she had nothing interesting to say herself , and she loathed books of every description . 
She was , in fact , not a person one would remember when one was caught in the storm of a great trouble , and Sara forgot her . 
It had been all the easier to forget her because she had been suddenly called home for a few weeks . 
Sara herself had already been taught to mend them . 
She looked pale and unlike herself , and she was attired in the queer , outgrown frock whose shortness showed so much thin black leg . 
Ermengarde was too slow a girl to be equal to such a situation . 
She could not think of anything to say . 
She knew what had happened , but , somehow , she had never imagined Sara could look like this so odd and poor and almost like a servant . 
She held the pile of garments in her arms , and her chin rested upon the top of it to keep it steady . 
Something in the look of her straight gazing eyes made Ermengarde lose her wits still more . 
She felt as if Sara had changed into a new kind of girl , and she had never known her before . 
Perhaps it was because she had suddenly grown poor and had to mend things and work like Becky . 
How how are you ? I don't know , Sara replied . 
How are you ? I'm I'm quite well , said Ermengarde , overwhelmed with shyness . 
Then spasmodically she thought of something to say which seemed more intimate . 
Are you are you very unhappy ? she said in a rush . 
Then Sara was guilty of an injustice . 
Just at that moment her torn heart swelled within her , and she felt that if anyone was as stupid as that , one had better get away from her . 
What do you think ? she said . 
Do you think I am very happy ? And she marched past her without another word . 
She was always awkward , and the more she felt , the more stupid she was given to being . 
But the sudden thought which had flashed upon her had made her over sensitive . 
She is like the others , she had thought . 
She does not really want to talk to me . 
She knows no one does . 
So for several weeks a barrier stood between them . 
When they met by chance Sara looked the other way , and Ermengarde felt too stiff and embarrassed to speak . 
Sometimes they nodded to each other in passing , but there were times when they did not even exchange a greeting . 
If she would rather not talk to me , Sara thought , I will keep out of her way . 
Miss Minchin makes that easy enough . 
Miss Minchin made it so easy that at last they scarcely saw each other at all . 
At that time it was noticed that Ermengarde was more stupid than ever , and that she looked listless and unhappy . 
She used to sit in the window seat , huddled in a heap , and stare out of the window without speaking . 
Once Jessie , who was passing , stopped to look at her curiously . 
What are you crying for , Ermengarde ? she asked . 
I'm not crying , answered Ermengarde , in a muffled , unsteady voice . 
You are , said Jessie . 
A great big tear just rolled down the bridge of your nose and dropped off at the end of it . 
Well , said Ermengarde , I'm miserable and no one need interfere . 
And she turned her plump back and took out her handkerchief and boldly hid her face in it . 
That night , when Sara went to her attic , she was later than usual . 
She had been kept at work until after the hour at which the pupils went to bed , and after that she had gone to her lessons in the lonely schoolroom . 
When she reached the top of the stairs , she was surprised to see a glimmer of light coming from under the attic door . 
Nobody goes there but myself , she thought quickly , but someone has lighted a candle . 
The someone was sitting upon the battered footstool , and was dressed in her nightgown and wrapped up in a red shawl . 
She was so startled that she was almost frightened . 
You will get into trouble . 
Ermengarde stumbled up from her footstool . 
She shuffled across the attic in her bedroom slippers , which were too large for her . 
Her eyes and nose were pink with crying . 
I know I shall if I'm found out . 
But I don't care I don't care a bit . 
Oh , Sara , please tell me . 
What is the matter ? Why don't you like me any more ? Something in her voice made the familiar lump rise in Sara's throat . 
It was so affectionate and simple so like the old Ermengarde who had asked her to be best friends . 
It sounded as if she had not meant what she had seemed to mean during these past weeks . 
I do like you , Sara answered . 
I thought you see , everything is different now . 
I thought you were different . 
Ermengarde opened her wet eyes wide . 
Why , it was you who were different ! she cried . 
You didn't want to talk to me . 
I didn't know what to do . 
It was you who were different after I came back . 
She saw she had made a mistake . 
I AM different , she explained , though not in the way you think . 
Miss Minchin does not want me to talk to the girls . 
Most of them don't want to talk to me . 
I thought perhaps you didn't . 
So I tried to keep out of your way . 
Oh , Sara , Ermengarde almost wailed in her reproachful dismay . 
And then after one more look they rushed into each other's arms . 
It must be confessed that Sara's small black head lay for some minutes on the shoulder covered by the red shawl . 
When Ermengarde had seemed to desert her , she had felt horribly lonely . 
Afterward they sat down upon the floor together , Sara clasping her knees with her arms , and Ermengarde rolled up in her shawl . 
Ermengarde looked at the odd , big eyed little face adoringly . 
I couldn't bear it any more , she said . 
I dare say you could live without me , Sara but I couldn't live without you . 
So tonight , when I was crying under the bedclothes , I thought all at once of creeping up here and just begging you to let us be friends again . 
You are nicer than I am , said Sara . 
I was too proud to try and make friends . 
You see , now that trials have come , they have shown that I am NOT a nice child . 
I was afraid they would . 
Perhaps wrinkling her forehead wisely that is what they were sent for . 
I don't see any good in them , said Ermengarde stoutly . 
Neither do I to speak the truth , admitted Sara , frankly . 
But I suppose there MIGHT be good in things , even if we don't see it . 
There MIGHT DOUBTFULLY B good in Miss Minchin . 
Ermengarde looked round the attic with a rather fearsome curiosity . 
Sara , she said , do you think you can bear living here ? Sara looked round also . 
If I pretend it's quite different , I can , she answered or if I pretend it is a place in a story . 
Her imagination was beginning to work for her . 
It had not worked for her at all since her troubles had come upon her . 
She had felt as if it had been stunned . 
Other people have lived in worse places . 
Think of the Count of Monte Cristo in the dungeons of the Chateau d'If . 
And think of the people in the Bastille ! The Bastille , half whispered Ermengarde , watching her and beginning to be fascinated . 
She remembered stories of the French Revolution which Sara had been able to fix in her mind by her dramatic relation of them . 
No one but Sara could have done it . 
A well known glow came into Sara's eyes . 
Yes , she said , hugging her knees , that will be a good place to pretend about . 
I am a prisoner in the Bastille . 
I have been here for years and years and years and everybody has forgotten about me . 
Miss Minchin is the jailer and Becky a sudden light adding itself to the glow in her eyes Becky is the prisoner in the next cell . 
She turned to Ermengarde , looking quite like the old Sara . 
I shall pretend that , she said and it will be a great comfort . 
Ermengarde was at once enraptured and awed . 
And will you tell me all about it ? she said . 
Yes , answered Sara , nodding . 
Adversity tries people , and mine has tried you and proved how nice you are . 
Melchisedec The third person in the trio was Lottie . 
She was a small thing and did not know what adversity meant , and was much bewildered by the alteration she saw in her young adopted mother . 
There had been much whispering among the little ones when it had been discovered that Sara no longer lived in the rooms in which Emily had so long sat in state . 
Lottie's chief difficulty was that Sara said so little when one asked her questions . 
At seven mysteries must be made very clear if one is to understand them . 
Are you very poor now , Sara ? she had asked confidentially the first morning her friend took charge of the small French class . 
Are you as poor as a beggar ? She thrust a fat hand into the slim one and opened round , tearful eyes . 
I don't want you to be as poor as a beggar . 
She looked as if she was going to cry . 
And Sara hurriedly consoled her . 
Beggars have nowhere to live , she said courageously . 
I have a place to live in . 
Where do you live ? persisted Lottle . 
The new girl sleeps in your room , and it isn't pretty any more . 
I live in another room , said Sara . 
Is it a nice one ? inquired Lottie . 
I want to go and see it . 
You must not talk , said Sara . 
Miss Minchin is looking at us . 
She will be angry with me for letting you whisper . 
She had found out already that she was to be held accountable for everything which was objected to . 
If the children were not attentive , if they talked , if they were restless , it was she who would be reproved . 
But Lottie was a determined little person . 
If Sara would not tell her where she lived , she would find out in some other way . 
There she found two doors near each other , and opening one , she saw her beloved Sara standing upon an old table and looking out of a window . 
Sara ! she cried , aghast . 
Mamma Sara ! She was aghast because the attic was so bare and ugly and seemed so far away from all the world . 
Her short legs had seemed to have been mounting hundreds of stairs . 
Sara turned round at the sound of her voice . 
It was her turn to be aghast . 
What would happen now ? If Lottie began to cry and any one chanced to hear , they were both lost . 
She jumped down from her table and ran to the child . 
Don't cry and make a noise , she implored . 
I shall be scolded if you do , and I have been scolded all day . 
It's it's not such a bad room , Lottie . 
Isn't it ? gasped Lottie , and as she looked round it she bit her lip . 
She was a spoiled child yet , but she was fond enough of her adopted parent to make an effort to control herself for her sake . 
Then , somehow , it was quite possible that any place in which Sara lived might turn out to be nice . 
Why isn't it , Sara ? she almost whispered . 
Sara hugged her close and tried to laugh . 
There was a sort of comfort in the warmth of the plump , childish body . 
She had had a hard day and had been staring out of the windows with hot eyes . 
You can see all sorts of things you can't see downstairs , she said . 
What sort of things ? demanded Lottie , with that cu ri osity Sara could always awaken even in bigger girls . 
And it all feels as high up as if it was another world . 
Oh , let me see it ! cried Lottie . 
Lift me up ! Sara lifted her up , and they stood on the old table together and leaned on the edge of the flat window in the roof , and looked out . 
Anyone who has not done this does not know what a different world they saw . 
The slates spread out on either side of them and slanted down into the rain gutter pipes . 
The sparrows , being at home there , twittered and hopped about quite without fear . 
Two of them perched on the chimney top nearest and quarrelled with each other fiercely until one pecked the other and drove him away . 
The garret window next to theirs was shut because the house next door was empty . 
I wish someone lived there , Sara said . 
The sky seemed so much nearer than when one saw it from the street , that Lottie was enchanted . 
From the attic window , among the chimney pots , the things which were happening in the world below seemed almost unreal . 
One scarcely believed in the existence of Miss Minchin and Miss Amelia and the schoolroom , and the roll of wheels in the square seemed a sound belonging to another existence . 
Oh , Sara ! cried Lottie , cuddling in her guarding arm . 
I like this attic I like it ! It is nicer than downstairs ! Look at that sparrow , whispered Sara . 
I wish I had some crumbs to throw to him . 
I have some ! came in a little shriek from Lottie . 
I have part of a bun in my pocket I bought it with my penny yesterday , and I saved a bit . 
When they threw out a few crumbs the sparrow jumped and flew away to an adjacent chimney top . 
He was evidently not accustomed to intimates in attics , and unexpected crumbs startled him . 
But when Lottie remained quite still and Sara chirped very softly almost as if she were a sparrow herself he saw that the thing which had alarmed him represented hospitality , after all . 
He put his head on one side , and from his perch on the chimney looked down at the crumbs with twinkling eyes . 
Lottie could scarcely keep still . 
Will he come ? Will he come ? she whispered . 
His eyes look as if he would , Sara whispered back . 
He is thinking and thinking whether he dare . 
Now he KNOWS , said Sara . 
And he will come back for the others . 
Lottie was so delighted that she quite forgot her first shocked impression of the attic . 
It is so little and so high above everything , she said , that it is almost like a nest in a tree . 
The slanting ceiling is so funny . 
It is like a square patch of light . 
If the sun is going to shine , little pink clouds float about , and I feel as if I could touch them . 
And if it rains , the drops patter and patter as if they were saying something nice . 
Then if there are stars , you can lie and try to count how many go into the patch . 
It takes such a lot . 
And just look at that tiny , rusty grate in the corner . 
If it was polished and there was a fire in it , just think how nice it would be . 
You see , it's really a beautiful little room . 
She was walking round the small place , holding Lottie's hand and making gestures which described all the beauties she was making herself see . 
She quite made Lottie see them , too . 
Lottie could always believe in the things Sara made pictures of . 
It could be made soft and covered with a lovely silk coverlet . 
And perhaps we could coax the sparrows until we made such friends with them that they would come and peck at the window and ask to be let in . 
Oh , Sara ! cried Lottie . 
The enchantment of her imaginings for Lottie had died away . 
The bed was hard and covered with its dingy quilt . 
She sat down on it for a few minutes and let her head drop in her hands . 
It's a lonely place , she said . 
Sometimes it's the loneliest place in the world . 
She was sitting in this way when her attention was attracted by a slight sound near her . 
She lifted her head to see where it came from , and if she had been a nervous child she would have left her seat on the battered footstool in a great hurry . 
A large rat was sitting up on his hind quarters and sniffing the air in an interested manner . 
Some of Lottie's crumbs had dropped upon the floor and their scent had drawn him out of his hole . 
He looked so queer and so like a gray whiskered dwarf or gnome that Sara was rather fascinated . 
He looked at her with his bright eyes , as if he were asking a question . 
He was evidently so doubtful that one of the child's queer thoughts came into her mind . 
I dare say it is rather hard to be a rat , she mused . 
And set traps for me , and pretend they were dinner . 
It's so different to be a sparrow . 
But nobody asked this rat if he wanted to be a rat when he was made . 
Nobody said , Wouldn't you rather be a sparrow ? She had sat so quietly that the rat had begun to take courage . 
He was very much afraid of her , but perhaps he had a heart like the sparrow and it told him that she was not a thing which pounced . 
He had a wife and a large family in the wall , and they had had frightfully bad luck for several days . 
He had left the children crying bitterly , and felt he would risk a good deal for a few crumbs , so he cautiously dropped upon his feet . 
Come on , said Sara I'm not a trap . 
You can have them , poor thing ! Prisoners in the Bastille used to make friends with rats . 
Suppose I make friends with you . 
How it is that animals understand things I do not know , but it is certain that they do understand . 
Perhaps there is a language which is not made of words and everything in the world understands it . 
Perhaps there is a soul hidden in everything and it can always speak , without even making a sound , to another soul . 
But whatsoever was the reason , the rat knew from that moment that he was safe even though he was a rat . 
He was really a very nice rat , and did not mean the least harm . 
When the mysterious thing which speaks without saying any words told him that she would not , he went softly toward the crumbs and began to eat them . 
As he did it he glanced every now and then at Sara , just as the sparrows had done , and his expression was so very apologetic that it touched her heart . 
She sat and watched him without making any movement . 
One crumb was very much larger than the others in fact , it could scarcely be called a crumb . 
It was evident that he wanted that piece very much , but it lay quite near the footstool and he was still rather timid . 
I believe he wants it to carry to his family in the wall , Sara thought . 
If I do not stir at all , perhaps he will come and get it . 
She scarcely allowed herself to breathe , she was so deeply interested . 
I knew he wanted it for his children , said Sara . 
I do believe I could make friends with him . 
There was , indeed , such a silence in the room at first that Ermengarde wondered if she could have fallen asleep . 
Then , to her surprise , she heard her utter a little , low laugh and speak coaxingly to someone . 
There ! Ermengarde heard her say . 
Who who ARE you talking to , Sara ? she gasped out . 
Sara drew her in cautiously , but she looked as if something pleased and amused her . 
You must promise not to be frightened not to scream the least bit , or I can't tell you , she answered . 
Ermengarde felt almost inclined to scream on the spot , but managed to control herself . 
She looked all round the attic and saw no one . 
And yet Sara had certainly been speaking TO someone . 
Is it something that will frighten me ? she asked timorously . 
Some people are afraid of them , said Sara . 
I was at first but I am not now . 
Was it a ghost ? quaked Ermengarde . 
No , said Sara , laughing . 
Ermengarde made one bound , and landed in the middle of the little dingy bed . 
She tucked her feet under her nightgown and the red shawl . 
She did not scream , but she gasped with fright . 
Oh ! Oh ! she cried under her breath . 
A rat ! A rat ! I was afraid you would be frightened , said Sara . 
I am making him tame . 
He actually knows me and comes out when I call him . 
He he won't run out quickly and jump on the bed , will he ? she said . 
He's as polite as we are . 
He is just like a person . 
Now watch ! She began to make a low , whistling sound so low and coaxing that it could only have been heard in entire stillness . 
She did it several times , looking entirely absorbed in it . 
Ermengarde thought she looked as if she were working a spell . 
And at last , evidently in response to it , a gray whiskered , bright eyed head peeped out of the hole . 
Sara had some crumbs in her hand . 
She dropped them , and Melchisedec came quietly forth and ate them . 
A piece of larger size than the rest he took and carried in the most businesslike manner back to his home . 
You see , said Sara , that is for his wife and children . 
He only eats the little bits . 
After he goes back I can always hear his family squeaking for joy . 
There are three kinds of squeaks . 
One kind is the children's , and one is Mrs. Melchisedec's , and one is Melchisedec's own . 
Oh , Sara ! she said . 
You ARE queer but you are nice . 
I know I am queer , admitted Sara , cheerfully and I TRY to be nice . 
She rubbed her forehead with her little brown paw , and a puzzled , tender look came into her face . 
Papa always laughed at me , she said but I liked it . 
He thought I was queer , but he liked me to make up things . 
I I can't help making up things . 
If I didn't , I don't believe I could live . 
She paused and glanced around the attic . 
I'm sure I couldn't live here , she added in a low voice . 
Ermengarde was interested , as she always was . 
When you talk about things , she said , they seem as if they grew real . 
You talk about Melchisedec as if he was a person . 
He IS a person , said Sara . 
He gets hungry and frightened , just as we do and he is married and has children . 
How do we know he doesn't think things , just as we do ? His eyes look as if he was a person . 
That was why I gave him a name . 
She sat down on the floor in her favorite attitude , holding her knees . 
Besides , she said , he is a Bastille rat sent to be my friend . 
I can always get a bit of bread the cook has thrown away , and it is quite enough to support him . 
Is it the Bastille yet ? asked Ermengarde , eagerly . 
Do you always pretend it is the Bastille ? Nearly always , answered Sara . 
Sometimes I try to pretend it is another kind of place but the Bastille is generally easiest particularly when it is cold . 
Just at that moment Ermengarde almost jumped off the bed , she was so startled by a sound she heard . 
It was like two distinct knocks on the wall . 
What is that ? she exclaimed . 
Sara got up from the floor and answered quite dramatically It is the prisoner in the next cell . 
Becky ! cried Ermengarde , enraptured . 
Listen the two knocks meant , Prisoner , are you there ? She knocked three times on the wall herself , as if in answer . 
That means , Yes , I am here , and all is well . 
Four knocks came from Becky's side of the wall . 
That means , explained Sara , Then , fellow sufferer , we will sleep in peace . 
Ermengarde quite beamed with delight . 
Oh , Sara ! she whispered joyfully . 
It is like a story ! It IS a story , said Sara . 
You are a story I am a story . 
Miss Minchin is a story . 
The Indian Gentleman But it was a perilous thing for Ermengarde and Lottie to make pilgrimages to the attic . 
So their visits were rare ones , and Sara lived a strange and lonely life . 
It was a lonelier life when she was downstairs than when she was in her attic . 
A happy , beautifully cared for little girl naturally attracts attention . 
Shabby , poorly dressed children are not rare enough and pretty enough to make people turn around to look at them and smile . 
No one looked at Sara in these days , and no one seemed to see her as she hurried along the crowded pavements . 
All her valuable garments had been disposed of , and such as had been left for her use she was expected to wear so long as she could put them on at all . 
It always interested her to catch glimpses of rooms before the shutters were closed . 
There were several families in the square in which Miss Minchin lived , with which she had become quite familiar in a way of her own . 
The one she liked best she called the Large Family . 
She called it the Large Family not because the members of it were big for , indeed , most of them were little but because there were so many of them . 
Sara was quite fond of them , and had given them names out of books quite romantic names . 
She called them the Montmorencys when she did not call them the Large Family . 
One evening a very funny thing happened though , perhaps , in one sense it was not a funny thing at all . 
Veronica Eustacia and Rosalind Gladys , in white lace frocks and lovely sashes , had just got in , and Guy Clarence , aged five , was following them . 
So she paused and looked . 
An entire sixpence , he was sure , would mean affluence for evermore . 
He thought that her eyes looked hungry because she had perhaps had nothing to eat for a long time . 
He only knew that she had big eyes and a thin face and thin legs and a common basket and poor clothes . 
So he put his hand in his pocket and found his sixpence and walked up to her benignly . 
Here , poor little girl , he said . 
I will give it to you . 
And she had given them pennies many a time . 
Her face went red and then it went pale , and for a second she felt as if she could not take the dear little sixpence . 
Oh , no ! she said . 
and Rosalind Gladys leaned forward to listen . 
But Guy Clarence was not to be thwarted in his benevolence . 
He thrust the sixpence into her hand . 
Yes , you must take it , poor little girl ! he insisted stoutly . 
You can buy things to eat with it . 
To be as proud as that would be a cruel thing . 
So she actually put her pride in her pocket , though it must be admitted her cheeks burned . 
Thank you , she said . 
You are a kind , kind little darling thing . 
And as he scrambled joyfully into the carriage she went away , trying to smile , though she caught her breath quickly and her eyes were shining through a mist . 
She had known that she looked odd and shabby , but until now she had not known that she might be taken for a beggar . 
As the Large Family's carriage drove away , the children inside it were talking with interested excitement . 
, Janet exclaimed alarmedly , why did you offer that little girl your sixpence ? I'm sure she is not a beggar ! She didn't speak like a beggar ! cried Nora . 
And her face didn't really look like a beggar's face ! Besides , she didn't beg , said Janet . 
I was so afraid she might be angry with you . 
You know , it makes people angry to be taken for beggars when they are not beggars . 
She wasn't angry , said Donald , a trifle dismayed , but still firm . 
She laughed a little , and she said I was a kind , kind little darling thing . 
And I was ! stoutly . 
It was my whole sixpence . 
Janet and Nora exchanged glances . 
A beggar girl would never have said that , decided Janet . 
She would have said , Thank yer kindly , little gentleman thank yer , sir and perhaps she would have bobbed a curtsy . 
Sara knew nothing about the fact , but from that time the Large Family was as profoundly interested in her as she was in it . 
Faces used to appear at the nursery windows when she passed , and many discussions concerning her were held round the fire . 
She is a kind of servant at the seminary , Janet said . 
I don't believe she belongs to anybody . 
I believe she is an orphan . 
But she is not a beggar , however shabby she looks . 
Sara managed to bore a hole in the sixpence and hung it on an old bit of narrow ribbon round her neck . 
Her affection for the Large Family increased as , indeed , her affection for everything she could love increased . 
Her small pupils loved her , and strove with each other for the privilege of standing close to her and insinuating their small hands into hers . 
It fed her hungry heart to feel them nestling up to her . 
With Melchisedec she had become so intimate that he actually brought Mrs. Melchisedec with him sometimes , and now and then one or two of his children . 
She used to talk to him , and , somehow , he looked quite as if he understood . 
There had grown in her mind rather a strange feeling about Emily , who always sat and looked on at everything . 
It arose in one of her moments of great desolateness . 
She would have liked to believe or pretend to believe that Emily understood and sympathized with her . 
She did not like to own to herself that her only companion could feel and hear nothing . 
One of her pretends was that Emily was a kind of good witch who could protect her . 
As to answering , though , said Sara , trying to console herself , I don't answer very often . 
I never answer when I can help it . 
When people are insulting you , there is nothing so good for them as not to say a word just to look at them and THINK . 
Miss Minchin turns pale with rage when I do it , Miss Amelia looks frightened , and so do the girls . 
There's nothing so strong as rage , except what makes you hold it in that's stronger . 
It's a good thing not to answer your enemies . 
Perhaps Emily is more like me than I am like myself . 
Perhaps she would rather not answer her friends , even . 
She keeps it all in her heart . 
But though she tried to satisfy herself with these arguments , she did not find it easy . 
There was nobody but Emily no one in the world . 
I shall die presently , she said at first . 
I can't bear this , said the poor child , trembling . 
I know I shall die . 
I'm cold I'm wet I'm starving to death . 
I've walked a thousand miles today , and they have done nothing but scold me from morning until night . 
And because I could not find that last thing the cook sent me for , they would not give me any supper . 
Some men laughed at me because my old shoes made me slip down in the mud . 
I'm covered with mud now . 
Do you hear ? She looked at the staring glass eyes and complacent face , and suddenly a sort of heartbroken rage seized her . 
She lifted her little savage hand and knocked Emily off the chair , bursting into a passion of sobbing Sara who never cried . 
You are nothing but a DOLL ! she cried . 
Nothing but a doll doll doll ! You care for nothing . 
You are stuffed with sawdust . 
You never had a heart . 
Nothing could ever make you feel . 
Sara hid her face in her arms . 
The rats in the wall began to fight and bite each other and squeak and scramble . 
Melchisedec was chastising some of his family . 
Sara's sobs gradually quieted themselves . 
It was so unlike her to break down that she was surprised at herself . 
Sara bent and picked her up . 
She even smiled at herself a very little smile . 
You can't help being a doll , she said with a resigned sigh , any more than Lavinia and Jessie can help not having any sense . 
We are not all made alike . 
Perhaps you do your sawdust best . 
And she kissed her and shook her clothes straight , and put her back upon her chair . 
She had wished very much that some one would take the empty house next door . 
She wished it because of the attic window which was so near hers . 
It seemed as if it would be so nice to see it propped open someday and a head and shoulders rising out of the square aperture . 
If it looked a nice head , she thought , I might begin by saying , Good morning , and all sorts of things might happen . 
But , of course , it's not really likely that anyone but under servants would sleep there . 
It's taken ! she said . 
She had an idea that if she could see some of the furniture she could guess something about the people it belonged to . 
Miss Minchin's tables and chairs are just like her , she thought I remember thinking that the first minute I saw her , even though I was so little . 
I told papa afterward , and he laughed and said it was true . 
I am sure the Large Family have fat , comfortable armchairs and sofas , and I can see that their red flowery wallpaper is exactly like them . 
It's warm and cheerful and kind looking and happy . 
She was sent out for parsley to the greengrocer's later in the day , and when she came up the area steps her heart gave quite a quick beat of recognition . 
Several pieces of furniture had been set out of the van upon the pavement . 
There was a beautiful table of elaborately wrought teakwood , and some chairs , and a screen covered with rich Oriental embroidery . 
The sight of them gave her a weird , homesick feeling . 
She had seen things so like them in India . 
One of the things Miss Minchin had taken from her was a carved teakwood desk her father had sent her . 
They are beautiful things , she said they look as if they ought to belong to a nice person . 
All the things look rather grand . 
I suppose it is a rich family . 
The vans of furniture came and were unloaded and gave place to others all the day . 
Several times it so happened that Sara had an opportunity of seeing things carried in . 
It became plain that she had been right in guessing that the newcomers were people of large means . 
All the furniture was rich and beautiful , and a great deal of it was Oriental . 
Wonderful rugs and draperies and ornaments were taken from the vans , many pictures , and books enough for a library . 
Among other things there was a superb god Buddha in a splendid shrine . 
Someone in the family MUST have been in India , Sara thought . 
They have got used to Indian things and like them . 
I shall feel as if they were friends , even if a head never looks out of the attic window . 
, she saw something occur which made the situation more interesting than ever . 
He ran up them as if he felt quite at home and expected to run up and down them many a time in the future . 
He stayed inside quite a long time , and several times came out and gave directions to the workmen , as if he had a right to do so . 
It was quite certain that he was in some intimate way connected with the newcomers and was acting for them . 
At night , after her work was done , Becky came in to see her fellow prisoner and bring her news . 
It's a' Nindian gentleman that's comin' to live next door , miss , she said . 
I don't know whether he's a black gentleman or not , but he's a Nindian one . 
He's very rich , an' he's ill , an' the gentleman of the Large Family is his lawyer . 
He's had a lot of trouble , an' it's made him ill an' low in his mind . 
He worships idols , miss . 
He's an 'eathen an' bows down to wood an' stone . 
I seen a' idol bein' carried in for him to worship . 
Somebody had oughter send him a trac' . 
You can get a trac' for a penny . 
I don't believe he worships that idol , she said some people like to keep them to look at because they are interesting . 
My papa had a beautiful one , and he did not worship it . 
But Becky was rather inclined to prefer to believe that the new neighbor was an 'eathen . 
It sounded so much more romantic than that he should merely be the ordinary kind of gentleman who went to church with a prayer book . 
I never lived next door to no 'eathens , miss , she said I should like to see what sort o' ways they'd have . 
It was several weeks before her curiosity was satisfied , and then it was revealed that the new occupant had neither wife nor children . 
He was a solitary man with no family at all , and it was evident that he was shattered in health and unhappy in mind . 
A carriage drove up one day and stopped before the house . 
When the footman dismounted from the box and opened the door the gentleman who was the father of the Large Family got out first . 
After him there descended a nurse in uniform , then came down the steps two men servants . 
He was carried up the steps , and the head of the Large Family went with him , looking very anxious . 
Shortly afterward a doctor's carriage arrived , and the doctor went in plainly to take care of him . 
There is such a yellow gentleman next door , Sara , Lottie whispered at the French class afterward . 
Do you think he is a Chinee ? The geography says the Chinee men are yellow . 
No , he is not Chinese , Sara whispered back he is very ill . 
Go on with your exercise , Lottie . 
Je n'ai pas le canif de mon oncle . 
That was the beginning of the story of the Indian gentleman . 
Ram Dass There were fine sunsets even in the square , sometimes . 
One could only see parts of them , however , between the chimneys and over the roofs . 
The place where one could see all this , and seem at the same time to breathe a purer air , was , of course , the attic window . 
When she had accomplished this , she always drew a long breath and looked all round her . 
It used to seem as if she had all the sky and the world to herself . 
No one else ever looked out of the other attics . 
Generally the skylights were closed but even if they were propped open to admit air , no one seemed to come near them . 
The sparrows always seemed to her to twitter with a sort of subdued softness just when these marvels were going on . 
She mounted her table and stood looking out . 
I t was a wonderful moment . 
There were floods of molten gold covering the west , as if a glorious tide was sweeping over the world . 
A deep , rich yellow light filled the air the birds flying across the tops of the houses showed quite black against it . 
It's a Splendid one , said Sara , softly , to herself . 
It makes me feel almost afraid as if something strange was just going to happen . 
The Splendid ones always make me feel like that . 
She suddenly turned her head because she heard a sound a few yards away from her . 
It was an odd sound like a queer little squeaky chattering . 
It came from the window of the next attic . 
Someone had come to look at the sunset as she had . 
As Sara looked toward him he looked toward her . 
The first thing she thought was that his dark face looked sorrowful and homesick . 
She felt absolutely sure he had come up to look at the sun , because he had seen it so seldom in England that he longed for a sight of it . 
She looked at him interestedly for a second , and then smiled across the slates . 
She had learned to know how comforting a smile , even from a stranger , may be . 
Hers was evidently a pleasure to him . 
His whole expression altered , and he showed such gleaming white teeth as he smiled back that it was as if a light had been illuminated in his dusky face . 
The friendly look in Sara's eyes was always very effective when people felt tired or dull . 
It was perhaps in making his salute to her that he loosened his hold on the monkey . 
He was an impish monkey and always ready for adventure , and it is probable that the sight of a little girl excited him . 
He suddenly broke loose , jumped on to the slates , ran across them chattering , and actually leaped on to Sara's shoulder , and from there down into her attic room . 
It made her laugh and delighted her but she knew he must be restored to his master if the Lascar was his master and she wondered how this was to be done . 
Perhaps he belonged to the Indian gentleman , and the poor man was fond of him . 
She turned to the Lascar , feeling glad that she remembered still some of the Hindustani she had learned when she lived with her father . 
She could make the man understand . 
She spoke to him in the language he knew . 
Will he let me catch him ? she asked . 
She thought she had never seen more surprise and delight than the dark face expressed when she spoke in the familiar tongue . 
The truth was that the poor fellow felt as if his gods had intervened , and the kind little voice came from heaven itself . 
At once Sara saw that he had been accustomed to European children . 
He poured forth a flood of respectful thanks . 
He was the servant of Missee Sahib . 
The monkey was a good monkey and would not bite but , unfortunately , he was difficult to catch . 
He would flee from one spot to another , like the lightning . 
He was disobedient , though not evil . 
Ram Dass knew him as if he were his child , and Ram Dass he would sometimes obey , but not always . 
If Missee Sahib would permit Ram Dass , he himself could cross the roof to her room , enter the windows , and regain the unworthy little animal . 
But he was evidently afraid Sara might think he was taking a great liberty and perhaps would not let him come . 
But Sara gave him leave at once . 
Can you get across ? she inquired . 
In a moment , he answered her . 
Then come , she said he is flying from side to side of the room as if he was frightened . 
Ram Dass slipped through his attic window and crossed to hers as steadily and lightly as if he had walked on roofs all his life . 
He slipped through the skylight and dropped upon his feet without a sound . 
Then he turned to Sara and salaamed again . 
The monkey saw him and uttered a little scream . 
Ram Dass hastily took the precaution of shutting the skylight , and then went in chase of him . 
It was not a very long chase . 
Ram Dass thanked Sara profoundly . 
He would have been made sad if his favorite had run away and been lost . 
Then he salaamed once more and got through the skylight and across the slates again with as much agility as the monkey himself had displayed . 
When he had gone Sara stood in the middle of her attic and thought of many things his face and his manner had brought back to her . 
The sight of his native costume and the profound reverence of his manner stirred all her past memories . 
It was like a sort of dream . 
It was all over , and it could never come back . 
It certainly seemed that there was no way in which any change could take place . 
She knew what Miss Minchin intended that her future should be . 
The truth , indeed , was that Miss Minchin knew that she was too anxious to learn to require teachers . 
Give her books , and she would devour them and end by knowing them by heart . 
She might be trusted to be equal to teaching a good deal in the course of a few years . 
That was all there seemed to be to look forward to , and Sara stood quite still for several minutes and thought it over . 
Then a thought came back to her which made the color rise in her cheek and a spark light itself in her eyes . 
She straightened her thin little body and lifted her head . 
Whatever comes , she said , cannot alter one thing . 
If I am a princess in rags and tatters , I can be a princess inside . 
She was a great deal more like a queen then than when she was so gay and everything was so grand . 
I like her best then . 
Those howling mobs of people did not frighten her . 
She was stronger than they were , even when they cut her head off . 
This was not a new thought , but quite an old one , by this time . 
It was as if she scarcely heard the rude and acid things said to her or , if she heard them , did not care for them at all . 
I only spare you because I am a princess , and you are a poor , stupid , unkind , vulgar old thing , and don't know any better . 
This used to interest and amuse her more than anything else and queer and fanciful as it was , she found comfort in it and it was a good thing for her . 
While the thought held possession of her , she could not be made rude and malicious by the rudeness and malice of those about her . 
A princess must be polite , she said to herself . 
She's got more airs and graces than if she come from Buckingham Palace , that young one , said the cook , chuckling a little sometimes . 
I lose my temper with her often enough , but I will say she never forgets her manners . 
The morning after the interview with Ram Dass and his monkey , Sara was in the schoolroom with her small pupils . 
How frightened she must have been when she found out what she had done . 
She wakened from her dream at the shock , and , catching her breath , stood still a second . 
Then , not knowing she was going to do it , she broke into a little laugh . 
What are you laughing at , you bold , impudent child ? Miss Minchin exclaimed . 
It took Sara a few seconds to control herself sufficiently to remember that she was a princess . 
Her cheeks were red and smarting from the blows she had received . 
I was thinking , she answered . 
Beg my pardon immediately , said Miss Minchin . 
Sara hesitated a second before she replied . 
I will beg your pardon for laughing , if it was rude , she said then but I won't beg your pardon for thinking . 
What were you thinking ? demanded Miss Minchin . 
How dare you think ? What were you thinking ? Jessie tittered , and she and Lavinia nudged each other in unison . 
All the girls looked up from their books to listen . 
Really , it always interested them a little when Miss Minchin attacked Sara . 
Sara always said something queer , and never seemed the least bit frightened . 
She was not in the least frightened now , though her boxed ears were scarlet and her eyes were as bright as stars . 
I was thinking , she answered grandly and politely , that you did not know what you were doing . 
That I did not know what I was doing ? Miss Minchin fairly gasped . 
Yes , said Sara , and I was thinking what would happen if I were a princess and you boxed my ears what I should do to you . 
And I was thinking that if I were one , you would never dare to do it , whatever I said or did . 
It almost seemed for the moment to her narrow , unimaginative mind that there must be some real power hidden behind this candid daring . 
Found out what ? That I really was a princess , said Sara , and could do anything anything I liked . 
Every pair of eyes in the room widened to its full limit . 
Lavinia leaned forward on her seat to look . 
Go to your room , cried Miss Minchin , breathlessly , this instant ! Leave the schoolroom ! Attend to your lessons , young ladies ! Sara made a little bow . 
Did you see her ? Did you see how queer she looked ? Jessie broke out . 
I shouldn't be at all surprised if she did turn out to be something . 
Sara was fond of amusing herself by trying to imagine the things hidden by the wall which divided the Select Seminary from the Indian gentleman's house . 
I am growing quite fond of him , she said to Ermengarde I should not like him to be disturbed . 
I have adopted him for a friend . 
You can do that with people you never speak to at all . 
You can just watch them , and think about them and be sorry for them , until they seem almost like relations . 
I'm quite anxious sometimes when I see the doctor call twice a day . 
I have very few relations , said Ermengarde , reflectively , and I'm very glad of it . 
I don't like those I have . 
My two aunts are always saying , Dear me , Ermengarde ! You are very fat . 
People you never speak to can't ask you questions like that , she said and I'm sure the Indian gentleman wouldn't even if he was quite intimate with you . 
I am fond of him . 
She had become fond of the Large Family because they looked happy but she had become fond of the Indian gentleman because he looked unhappy . 
He had evidently not fully recovered from some very severe illness . 
In the kitchen where , of course , the servants , through some mysterious means , knew everything there was much discussion of his case . 
He was not an Indian gentleman really , but an Englishman who had lived in India . 
He had met with great misfortunes which had for a time so imperilled his whole fortune that he had thought himself ruined and disgraced forever . 
His trouble and peril had been connected with mines . 
And mines with diamonds in 'em ! said the cook . 
No savin's of mine never goes into no mines particular diamond ones with a side glance at Sara . 
We all know somethin' of THEM . 
He felt as my papa felt , Sara thought . 
He was ill as my papa was but he did not die . 
So her heart was more drawn to him than before . 
When no one was about she used sometimes to stop , and , holding to the iron railings , wish him good night as if he could hear her . 
Perhaps you can FEEL if you can't hear , was her fancy . 
Perhaps kind thoughts reach people somehow , even through windows and doors and walls . 
Perhaps you feel a little warm and comforted , and don't know why , when I am standing here in the cold and hoping you will get well and happy again . 
I am so sorry for you , she would whisper in an intense little voice . 
I wish you had a Little Missus' who could pet you as I used to pet papa when he had a headache . 
I should like to be your Little Missus' myself , poor dear ! Good night good night . 
God bless you ! She would go away , feeling quite comforted and a little warmer herself . 
He looked to Sara like a man who had a trouble on his mind still , not merely like one whose troubles lay all in the past . 
I wonder if there is something else . 
If there was something else something even servants did not hear of she could not help believing that the father of the Large Family knew it the gentleman she called Mr. Montmorency . 
Mr. Montmorency went to see him often , and Mrs. Montmorency and all the little Montmorencys went , too , though less often . 
He seemed particularly fond of the two elder little girls the Janet and Nora who had been so alarmed when their small brother Donald had given Sara his sixpence . 
He had , in fact , a very tender place in his heart for all children , and particularly for little girls . 
They were extremely decorous little visits because he was an invalid . 
He is a poor thing , said Janet , and he says we cheer him up . 
We try to cheer him up very quietly . 
Janet was the head of the family , and kept the rest of it in order . 
They were very fond of Ram Dass . 
He could have told any number of stories if he had been able to speak anything but Hindustani . 
The Indian gentleman's real name was Mr. Carrisford , and Janet told Mr. Carrisford about the encounter with the little girl who was not a beggar . 
He was very much interested , and all the more so when he heard from Ram Dass of the adventure of the monkey on the roof . 
My dear fellow , Mr. Carmichael answered cheerily , the sooner you cease tormenting yourself the better it will be for you . 
And there you are ! Mr. Carrisford sat and bit his nails as he looked into the glowing bed of coals in the grate . 
He knew that the worst thing the man could do for himself , for his reason and his health , was to begin to think in the particular way of this particular subject . 
They adopted her because she had been the favorite companion of their little daughter who died . 
They had no other children , and Madame Pascal said that they were extremely well to do Russians . 
And the wretched woman actually did not know where they had taken her ! exclaimed Mr. Carrisford . 
Mr. Carmichael shrugged his shoulders . 
She was a shrewd , worldly Frenchwoman , and was evidently only too glad to get the child so comfortably off her hands when the father's death left her totally unprovided for . 
Women of her type do not trouble themselves about the futures of children who might prove burdens . 
The adopted parents apparently disappeared and left no trace . 
But you say IF the child was the one I am in search of . 
There was a difference in the name . 
Madame Pascal pronounced it as if it were Carew instead of Crewe but that might be merely a matter of pronunciation . 
The circumstances were curiously similar . 
An English officer in India had placed his motherless little girl at the school . 
He had died suddenly after losing his fortune . 
Mr. Carmichael paused a moment , as if a new thought had occurred to him . 
I never saw either the child or her mother . 
Ralph Crewe and I loved each other as boys , but we had not met since our school days , until we met in India . 
I was absorbed in the magnificent promise of the mines . 
He became absorbed , too . 
The whole thing was so huge and glittering that we half lost our heads . 
When we met we scarcely spoke of anything else . 
I only knew that the child had been sent to school somewhere . 
I do not even remember , now , HOW I knew it . 
He was beginning to be excited . 
He always became excited when his still weakened brain was stirred by memories of the catastrophes of the past . 
Mr. Carmichael watched him anxiously . 
It was necessary to ask some questions , but they must be put quietly and with caution . 
It seemed only likely that she would be there . 
Yes , Mr. Carmichael said , it seems more than probable . 
The Indian gentleman leaned forward and struck the table with a long , wasted hand . 
Carmichael , he said , I MUST find her . 
If she is alive , she is somewhere . 
If she is friendless and penniless , it is through my fault . 
Console yourself with the fact that when she is found you have a fortune to hand over to her . 
Why was I not man enough to stand my ground when things looked black ? Carrisford groaned in petulant misery . 
I believe I should have stood my ground if I had not been responsible for other people's money as well as my own . 
Poor Crewe had put into the scheme every penny that he owned . 
He trusted me he LOVED me . 
And he died thinking I had ruined him I Tom Carrisford , who played cricket at Eton with him . 
What a villain he must have thought me ! Don't reproach yourself so bitterly . 
I don't reproach myself because the speculation threatened to fail I reproach myself for losing my courage . 
I ran away like a swindler and a thief , because I could not face my best friend and tell him I had ruined him and his child . 
The good hearted father of the Large Family put his hand on his shoulder comfortingly . 
You ran away because your brain had given way under the strain of mental torture , he said . 
You were half delirious already . 
If you had not been you would have stayed and fought it out . 
You were in a hospital , strapped down in bed , raving with brain fever , two days after you left the place . 
Carrisford dropped his forehead in his hands . 
Good God ! Yes , he said . 
I was driven mad with dread and horror . 
I had not slept for weeks . 
The night I staggered out of my house all the air seemed full of hideous things mocking and mouthing at me . 
That is explanation enough in itself , said Mr. Carmichael . 
How could a man on the verge of brain fever judge sanely ! Carrisford shook his drooping head . 
And when I returned to consciousness poor Crewe was dead and buried . 
And I seemed to remember nothing . 
I did not remember the child for months and months . 
Even when I began to recall her existence everything seemed in a sort of haze . 
He stopped a moment and rubbed his forehead . 
It sometimes seems so now when I try to remember . 
Surely I must sometime have heard Crewe speak of the school she was sent to . 
Don't you think so ? He might not have spoken of it definitely . 
You never seem even to have heard her real name . 
He used to call her by an odd pet name he had invented . 
He called her his Little Missus . 
But the wretched mines drove everything else out of our heads . 
We talked of nothing else . 
If he spoke of the school , I forgot I forgot . 
And now I shall never remember . 
Come , come , said Carmichael . 
We shall find her yet . 
We will continue to search for Madame Pascal's good natured Russians . 
She seemed to have a vague idea that they lived in Moscow . 
We will take that as a clue . 
I will go to Moscow . 
If I were able to travel , I would go with you , said Carrisford but I can only sit here wrapped in furs and stare at the fire . 
And when I look into it I seem to see Crewe's gay young face gazing back at me . 
He looks as if he were asking me a question . 
Sometimes I dream of him at night , and he always stands before me and asks the same question in words . 
Can you guess what he says , Carmichael ? Mr. Carmichael answered him in a rather low voice . 
Not exactly , he said . 
He always says , Tom , old man Tom where is the Little Missus ? He caught at Carmichael's hand and clung to it . 
I must be able to answer him I must ! he said . 
Help me to find her . 
On the other side of the wall Sara was sitting in her garret talking to Melchisedec , who had come out for his evening meal . 
It has been hard to be a princess today , Melchisedec , she said . 
It has been harder than usual . 
It gets harder as the weather grows colder and the streets get more sloppy . 
When Lavinia laughed at my muddy skirt as I passed her in the hall , I thought of something to say all in a flash and I only just stopped myself in time . 
You can't sneer back at people like that if you are a princess . 
But you have to bite your tongue to hold yourself in . 
It was a cold afternoon , Melchisedec . 
And it's a cold night . 
Quite suddenly she put her black head down in her arms , as she often did when she was alone . 
Oh , papa , she whispered , what a long time it seems since I was your Little Missus' ! This was what happened that day on both sides of the wall . 
One of the Populace The winter was a wretched one . 
But the attic was dismal beyond words . 
There were no longer sunsets or sunrises to look at , and scarcely ever any stars , it seemed to Sara . 
The clouds hung low over the skylight and were either gray or mud color , or dropping heavy rain . 
At four o'clock in the afternoon , even when there was no special fog , the daylight was at an end . 
If it was necessary to go to her attic for anything , Sara was obliged to light a candle . 
The women in the kitchen were depressed , and that made them more ill tempered than ever . 
Becky was driven like a little slave . 
That there does seem real now , doesn't it ? The missus is more like the head jailer every day she lives . 
I can jest see them big keys you say she carries . 
The cook she's like one of the under jailers . 
Tell me some more , please , miss tell me about the subt'ranean passage we've dug under the walls . 
I'll tell you something warmer , shivered Sara . 
I wonder who caught him , and if he left a family behind who had depended on him for coconuts . 
That is warmer , miss , said Becky , gratefully but , someways , even the Bastille is sort of heatin' when you gets to tellin' about it . 
That is because it makes you think of something else , said Sara , wrapping the coverlet round her until only her small dark face was to be seen looking out of it . 
What you have to do with your mind , when your body is miserable , is to make it think of something else . 
Can you do it , miss ? faltered Becky , regarding her with admiring eyes . 
Sara knitted her brows a moment . 
Sometimes I can and sometimes I can't , she said stoutly . 
But when I CAN I'm all right . 
And what I believe is that we always could if we practiced enough . 
I've been practicing a good deal lately , and it's beginning to be easier than it used to be . 
When things are horrible just horrible I think as hard as ever I can of being a princess . 
I say to myself , I am a princess , and I am a fairy one , and because I am a fairy nothing can hurt me or make me uncomfortable . 
You don't know how it makes you forget with a laugh . 
She had many opportunities of making her mind think of something else , and many opportunities of proving to herself whether or not she was a princess . 
The absurd old feathers on her forlorn hat were more draggled and absurd than ever , and her downtrodden shoes were so wet that they could not hold any more water . 
Added to this , she had been deprived of her dinner , because Miss Minchin had chosen to punish her . 
But she did not know that . 
She hurried on , trying to make her mind think of something else . 
It was really very necessary . 
Her way of doing it was to pretend and suppose with all the strength that was left in her . 
But really this time it was harder than she had ever found it , and once or twice she thought it almost made her more cold and hungry instead of less so . 
Suppose I had dry clothes on , she thought . 
Suppose I had good shoes and a long , thick coat and merino stockings and a whole umbrella . 
And suppose suppose just when I was near a baker's where they sold hot buns , I should find sixpence which belonged to nobody . 
SUPPOSE if I did , I should go into the shop and buy six of the hottest buns and eat them all without stopping . 
Some very odd things happen in this world sometimes . 
It certainly was an odd thing that happened to Sara . 
She had to cross the street just when she was saying this to herself The mud was dreadful she almost had to wade . 
It was actually a piece of silver a tiny piece trodden upon by many feet , but still with spirit enough left to shine a little . 
Not quite a sixpence , but the next thing to it a fourpenny piece . 
In one second it was in her cold little red and blue hand . 
Oh , she gasped , it is true ! It is true ! And then , if you will believe me , she looked straight at the shop directly facing her . 
She knew she need not hesitate to use the little piece of money . 
It had evidently been lying in the mud for some time , and its owner was completely lost in the stream of passing people who crowded and jostled each other all day long . 
But I'll go and ask the baker woman if she has lost anything , she said to herself , rather faintly . 
So she crossed the pavement and put her wet foot on the step . 
As she did so she saw something that made her stop . 
Above the rags appeared a shock head of tangled hair , and a dirty face with big , hollow , hungry eyes . 
Sara knew they were hungry eyes the moment she saw them , and she felt a sudden sympathy . 
This , she said to herself , with a little sigh , is one of the populace and she is hungrier than I am . 
The child this one of the populace stared up at Sara , and shuffled herself aside a little , so as to give her room to pass . 
She was used to being made to give room to everybody . 
She knew that if a policeman chanced to see her he would tell her to move on . 
Sara clutched her little fourpenny piece and hesitated for a few seconds . 
Then she spoke to her . 
Are you hungry ? she asked . 
The child shuffled herself and her rags a little more . 
Ain't I jist ? she said in a hoarse voice . 
Jist ain't I ? Haven't you had any dinner ? said Sara . 
No dinner , more hoarsely still and with more shuffling . 
Nor yet no bre'fast nor yet no supper . 
Since when ? asked Sara . 
Never got nothin' today nowhere . 
Just to look at her made Sara more hungry and faint . 
But those queer little thoughts were at work in her brain , and she was talking to herself , though she was sick at heart . 
Buns are a penny each . 
If it had been sixpence I could have eaten six . 
It won't be enough for either of us . 
But it will be better than nothing . 
Wait a minute , she said to the beggar child . 
She went into the shop . 
It was warm and smelled deliciously . 
The woman was just going to put some more hot buns into the window . 
If you please , said Sara , have you lost fourpence a silver fourpence ? And she held the forlorn little piece of money out to her . 
The woman looked at it and then at her at her intense little face and draggled , once fine clothes . 
Bless us , no , she answered . 
Did you find it ? Yes , said Sara . 
Keep it , then , said the woman . 
It may have been there for a week , and goodness knows who lost it . 
YOU could never find out . 
I know that , said Sara , but I thought I would ask you . 
Not many would , said the woman , looking puzzled and interested and good natured all at once . 
Do you want to buy something ? she added , as she saw Sara glance at the buns . 
Four buns , if you please , said Sara . 
Those at a penny each . 
The woman went to the window and put some in a paper bag . 
Sara noticed that she put in six . 
I said four , if you please , she explained . 
I'll throw in two for makeweight , said the woman with her good natured look . 
I dare say you can eat them sometime . 
Aren't you hungry ? A mist rose before Sara's eyes . 
I am very hungry , and I am much obliged to you for your kindness and she was going to add there is a child outside who is hungrier than I am . 
But just at that moment two or three customers came in at once , and each one seemed in a hurry , so she could only thank the woman again and go out . 
The beggar girl was still huddled up in the corner of the step . 
She looked frightful in her wet and dirty rags . 
She was muttering to herself . 
Sara opened the paper bag and took out one of the hot buns , which had already warmed her own cold hands a little . 
See , she said , putting the bun in the ragged lap , this is nice and hot . 
Eat it , and you will not feel so hungry . 
Oh , my ! Oh , my ! Sara heard her say hoarsely , in wild delight . 
OH my ! Sara took out three more buns and put them down . 
The sound in the hoarse , ravenous voice was awful . 
She is hungrier than I am , she said to herself . 
But her hand trembled when she put down the fourth bun . 
I'm not starving , she said and she put down the fifth . 
The little ravening London savage was still snatching and devouring when she turned away . 
She was too ravenous to give any thanks , even if she had ever been taught politeness which she had not . 
She was only a poor little wild animal . 
Good bye , said Sara . 
When she reached the other side of the street she looked back . 
The child had a bun in each hand and had stopped in the middle of a bite to watch her . 
At that moment the baker woman looked out of her shop window . 
Well , I never ! she exclaimed . 
If that young un hasn't given her buns to a beggar child ! It wasn't because she didn't want them , either . 
Well , well , she looked hungry enough . 
I'd give something to know what she did it for . 
She stood behind her window for a few moments and pondered . 
Then her curiosity got the better of her . 
She went to the door and spoke to the beggar child . 
Who gave you those buns ? she asked her . 
The child nodded her head toward Sara's vanishing figure . 
What did she say ? inquired the woman . 
Axed me if I was 'ungry , replied the hoarse voice . 
What did you say ? Said I was jist . 
And then she came in and got the buns , and gave them to you , did she ? The child nodded . 
The woman thought it over . 
Left just one for herself , she said in a low voice . 
And she could have eaten the whole six I saw it in her eyes . 
She looked after the little draggled far away figure and felt more disturbed in her usually comfortable mind than she had felt for many a day . 
I wish she hadn't gone so quick , she said . 
I'm blest if she shouldn't have had a dozen . 
Then she turned to the child . 
Are you hungry yet ? she said . 
I'm allus hungry , was the answer , but 't ain't as bad as it was . 
Come in here , said the woman , and she held open the shop door . 
The child got up and shuffled in . 
To be invited into a warm place full of bread seemed an incredible thing . 
She did not know what was going to happen . 
She did not care , even . 
Get yourself warm , said the woman , pointing to a fire in the tiny back room . 
And look here when you are hard up for a bit of bread , you can come in here and ask for it . 
I'm blest if I won't give it to you for that young one's sake . 
Sara found some comfort in her remaining bun . 
At all events , it was very hot , and it was better than nothing . 
As she walked along she broke off small pieces and ate them slowly to make them last longer . 
Suppose it was a magic bun , she said , and a bite was as much as a whole dinner . 
I should be overeating myself if I went on like this . 
It was dark when she reached the square where the Select Seminary was situated . 
The lights in the houses were all lighted . 
The blinds were not yet drawn in the windows of the room where she nearly always caught glimpses of members of the Large Family . 
This evening the swarm was about him , but he was not seated . 
On the contrary , there was a good deal of excitement going on . 
It was evident that a journey was to be taken , and it was Mr. Montmorency who was to take it . 
A brougham stood before the door , and a big portmanteau had been strapped upon it . 
The children were dancing about , chattering and hanging on to their father . 
The pretty rosy mother was standing near him , talking as if she was asking final questions . 
Sara paused a moment to see the little ones lifted up and kissed and the bigger ones bent over and kissed also . 
I wonder if he will stay away long , she thought . 
The portmanteau is rather big . 
Oh , dear , how they will miss him ! I shall miss him myself even though he doesn't know I am alive . 
Will Moscow be covered with snow ? said the little girl Janet . 
Will there be ice everywhere ? Shall you drive in a drosky ? cried another . 
Shall you see the Czar ? I will write and tell you all about it , he answered , laughing . 
And I will send you pictures of muzhiks and things . 
It is a hideous damp night . 
I would rather stay with you than go to Moscow . 
Good night ! Good night , duckies ! God bless you ! And he ran down the steps and jumped into the brougham . 
If you find the little girl , give her our love , shouted Guy Clarence , jumping up and down on the door mat . 
Then they went in and shut the door . 
Mamma says her clothes always look as if they had been given her by someone who was quite rich someone who only let her have them because they were too shabby to wear . 
The people at the school always send her out on errands on the horridest days and nights there are . 
Sara crossed the square to Miss Minchin's area steps , feeling faint and shaky . 
I wonder who the little girl is , she thought the little girl he is going to look for . 
What Melchisedec Heard and Saw On this very afternoon , while Sara was out , a strange thing happened in the attic . 
The attic had been very still all the day after Sara had left it in the early morning . 
The stillness had only been broken by the pattering of the rain upon the slates and the skylight . 
He stopped to listen with a palpitating heart . 
The sound suggested that something was moving on the roof . 
It was approaching the skylight it reached the skylight . 
The skylight was being mysteriously opened . 
A dark face peered into the attic then another face appeared behind it , and both looked in with signs of caution and interest . 
Two men were outside on the roof , and were making silent preparations to enter through the skylight itself . 
One was Ram Dass and the other was a young man who was the Indian gentleman's secretary but of course Melchisedec did not know this . 
He was frightened to death . 
He lay close and flat near the entrance of his home , just managing to peep through the crack with a bright , alarmed eye . 
The secretary , who was light and young , slipped through the skylight as noiselessly as Ram Dass had done and he caught a last glimpse of Melchisedec's vanishing tail . 
Was that a rat ? he asked Ram Dass in a whisper . 
Yes a rat , Sahib , answered Ram Dass , also whispering . 
There are many in the walls . 
Ugh ! exclaimed the young man . 
It is a wonder the child is not terrified of them . 
Ram Dass made a gesture with his hands . 
He was in this place as the intimate exponent of Sara , though she had only spoken to him once . 
The child is the little friend of all things , Sahib , he answered . 
She is not as other children . 
I see her when she does not see me . 
I slip across the slates and look at her many nights to see that she is safe . 
I watch her from my window when she does not know I am near . 
She stands on the table there and looks out at the sky as if it spoke to her . 
The sparrows come at her call . 
The rat she has fed and tamed in her loneliness . 
The poor slave of the house comes to her for comfort . 
There is a little child who comes to her in secret there is one older who worships her and would listen to her forever if she might . 
This I have seen when I have crept across the roof . 
All her life each day I know , answered Ram Dass . 
Her going out I know , and her coming in her sadness and her poor joys her coldness and her hunger . 
If she were ill I should know , and I would come and serve her if it might be done . 
You are sure no one comes near this place but herself , and that she will not return and surprise us . 
She would be frightened if she found us here , and the Sahib Carrisford's plan would be spoiled . 
Ram Dass crossed noiselessly to the door and stood close to it . 
None mount here but herself , Sahib , he said . 
She has gone out with her basket and may be gone for hours . 
If I stand here I can hear any step before it reaches the last flight of the stairs . 
The secretary took a pencil and a tablet from his breast pocket . 
Keep your ears open , he said and he began to walk slowly and softly round the miserable little room , making rapid notes on his tablet as he looked at things . 
First he went to the narrow bed . 
He pressed his hand upon the mattress and uttered an exclamation . 
As hard as a stone , he said . 
That will have to be altered some day when she is out . 
A special journey can be made to bring it across . 
It cannot be done tonight . 
He lifted the covering and examined the one thin pillow . 
Coverlet dingy and worn , blanket thin , sheets patched and ragged , he said . 
Never since I have seen it , said Ram Dass . 
The mistress of the house is not one who remembers that another than herself may be cold . 
The secretary was writing quickly on his tablet . 
He looked up from it as he tore off a leaf and slipped it into his breast pocket . 
It is a strange way of doing the thing , he said . 
Who planned it ? Ram Dass made a modestly apologetic obeisance . 
It is true that the first thought was mine , Sahib , he said though it was naught but a fancy . 
I am fond of this child we are both lonely . 
It is her way to relate her visions to her secret friends . 
Being sad one night , I lay close to the open skylight and listened . 
The vision she related told what this miserable room might be if it had comforts in it . 
She seemed to see it as she talked , and she grew cheered and warmed as she spoke . 
Then she came to this fancy and the next day , the Sahib being ill and wretched , I told him of the thing to amuse him . 
It seemed then but a dream , but it pleased the Sahib . 
To hear of the child's doings gave him entertainment . 
He became interested in her and asked questions . 
At last he began to please himself with the thought of making her visions real things . 
I can move as if my feet were of velvet , Ram Dass replied and children sleep soundly even the unhappy ones . 
I could have entered this room in the night many times , and without causing her to turn upon her pillow . 
If the other bearer passes to me the things through the window , I can do all and she will not stir . 
When she awakens she will think a magician has been here . 
He smiled as if his heart warmed under his white robe , and the secretary smiled back at him . 
It will be like a story from the Arabian Nights , he said . 
Only an Oriental could have planned it . 
It does not belong to London fogs . 
They did not remain very long , to the great relief of Melchisedec , who , as he probably did not comprehend their conversation , felt their movements and whispers ominous . 
The young secretary seemed interested in everything . 
You can hang things on them , he said . 
Yesterday , when she was out , he said , I entered , bringing with me small , sharp nails which can be pressed into the wall without blows from a hammer . 
I placed many in the plaster where I may need them . 
The Indian gentleman's secretary stood still and looked round him as he thrust his tablets back into his pocket . 
I think I have made notes enough we can go now , he said . 
The Sahib Carrisford has a warm heart . 
It is a thousand pities that he has not found the lost child . 
If he should find her his strength would be restored to him , said Ram Dass . 
His God may lead her to him yet . 
Then they slipped through the skylight as noiselessly as they had entered it . 
The Magic When Sara had passed the house next door she had seen Ram Dass closing the shutters , and caught her glimpse of this room also . 
It is a long time since I saw a nice place from the inside , was the thought which crossed her mind . 
There was the usual bright fire glowing in the grate , and the Indian gentleman was sitting before it . 
His head was resting in his hand , and he looked as lonely and unhappy as ever . 
Poor man ! said Sara . 
I wonder what you are supposing . 
And this was what he was supposing at that very moment . 
Suppose she proves to be quite a different child . 
What steps shall I take next ? When Sara went into the house she met Miss Minchin , who had come downstairs to scold the cook . 
Where have you wasted your time ? she demanded . 
You have been out for hours . 
It was so wet and muddy , Sara answered , it was hard to walk , because my shoes were so bad and slipped about . 
Make no excuses , said Miss Minchin , and tell no falsehoods . 
Sara went in to the cook . 
The cook had received a severe lecture and was in a fearful temper as a result . 
She was only too rejoiced to have someone to vent her rage on , and Sara was a convenience , as usual . 
Why didn't you stay all night ? she snapped . 
Sara laid her purchases on the table . 
Here are the things , she said . 
The cook looked them over , grumbling . 
She was in a very savage humor indeed . 
May I have something to eat ? Sara asked rather faintly . 
Tea's over and done with , was the answer . 
Did you expect me to keep it hot for you ? Sara stood silent for a second . 
I had no dinner , she said next , and her voice was quite low . 
She made it low because she was afraid it would tremble . 
There's some bread in the pantry , said the cook . 
That's all you'll get at this time of day . 
Sara went and found the bread . 
It was old and hard and dry . 
The cook was in too vicious a humor to give her anything to eat with it . 
It was always safe and easy to vent her spite on Sara . 
Really , it was hard for the child to climb the three long flights of stairs leading to her attic . 
She often found them long and steep when she was tired but tonight it seemed as if she would never reach the top . 
Several times she was obliged to stop to rest . 
When she reached the top landing she was glad to see the glimmer of a light coming from under her door . 
That meant that Ermengarde had managed to creep up to pay her a visit . 
There was some comfort in that . 
It was better than to go into the room alone and find it empty and desolate . 
The mere presence of plump , comfortable Ermengarde , wrapped in her red shawl , would warm it a little . 
Yes there Ermengarde was when she opened the door . 
She was sitting in the middle of the bed , with her feet tucked safely under her . 
She had never become intimate with Melchisedec and his family , though they rather fascinated her . 
When she found herself alone in the attic she always preferred to sit on the bed until Sara arrived . 
Oh , Sara , she cried out , I am glad you have come . 
Melchy WOULD sniff about so . 
I tried to coax him to go back , but he wouldn't for such a long time . 
I like him , you know but it does frighten me when he sniffs right at me . 
Do you think he ever WOULD jump ? No , answered Sara . 
Ermengarde crawled forward on the bed to look at her . 
You DO look tired , Sara , she said you are quite pale . 
I AM tired , said Sara , dropping on to the lopsided footstool . 
Oh , there's Melchisedec , poor thing . 
He's come to ask for his supper . 
Melchisedec had come out of his hole as if he had been listening for her footstep . 
Sara was quite sure he knew it . 
He came forward with an affectionate , expectant expression as Sara put her hand in her pocket and turned it inside out , shaking her head . 
I'm very sorry , she said . 
I haven't one crumb left . 
Go home , Melchisedec , and tell your wife there was nothing in my pocket . 
I'm afraid I forgot because the cook and Miss Minchin were so cross . 
He shuffled resignedly , if not contentedly , back to his home . 
I did not expect to see you tonight , Ermie , Sara said . 
Ermengarde hugged herself in the red shawl . 
Miss Amelia has gone out to spend the night with her old aunt , she explained . 
No one else ever comes and looks into the bedrooms after we are in bed . 
I could stay here until morning if I wanted to . 
She pointed toward the table under the skylight . 
Sara had not looked toward it as she came in . 
A number of books were piled upon it . 
Ermengarde's gesture was a dejected one . 
Papa has sent me some more books , Sara , she said . 
Sara looked round and got up at once . 
She ran to the table , and picking up the top volume , turned over its leaves quickly . 
For the moment she forgot her discomforts . 
Ah , she cried out , how beautiful ! Carlyle's French Revolution . 
I have SO wanted to read that ! I haven't , said Ermengarde . 
And papa will be so cross if I don't . 
He'll expect me to know all about it when I go home for the holidays . 
What SHALL I do ? Sara stopped turning over the leaves and looked at her with an excited flush on her cheeks . 
Oh , goodness ! exclaimed Ermengarde . 
Do you think you can ? I know I can , Sara answered . 
The little ones always remember what I tell them . 
Sara , said Ermengarde , hope gleaming in her round face , if you'll do that , and make me remember , I'll I'll give you anything . 
I don't want you to give me anything , said Sara . 
I want your books I want them ! And her eyes grew big , and her chest heaved . 
Take them , then , said Ermengarde . 
I wish I wanted them but I don't . 
I'm not clever , and my father is , and he thinks I ought to be . 
Sara was opening one book after the other . 
What are you going to tell your father ? she asked , a slight doubt dawning in her mind . 
Oh , he needn't know , answered Ermengarde . 
He'll think I've read them . 
Sara put down her book and shook her head slowly . 
That's almost like telling lies , she said . 
And lies well , you see , they are not only wicked they're VULGAR . 
Why can't you tell your father I read them ? He wants me to read them , said Ermengarde , a little discouraged by this unexpected turn of affairs . 
He wants you to know what is in them , said Sara . 
And if I can tell it to you in an easy way and make you remember it , I should think he would like that . 
He'll like it if I learn anything in ANY way , said rueful Ermengarde . 
You would if you were my father . 
It's not your fault that began Sara . 
She pulled herself up and stopped rather suddenly . 
She had been going to say , It's not your fault that you are stupid . 
That what ? Ermengarde asked . 
That you can't learn things quickly , amended Sara . 
If you can't , you can't . 
If I can why , I can that's all . 
As she looked at her plump face , one of her wise , old fashioned thoughts came to her . 
Perhaps , she said , to be able to learn things quickly isn't everything . 
To be kind is worth a great deal to other people . 
If Miss Minchin knew everything on earth and was like what she is now , she'd still be a detestable thing , and everybody would hate her . 
Lots of clever people have done harm and have been wicked . 
Look at Robespierre She stopped and examined Ermengarde's countenance , which was beginning to look bewildered . 
Don't you remember ? she demanded . 
I told you about him not long ago . 
Well , I don't remember ALL of it , admitted Ermengarde . 
Well , you wait a minute , said Sara , and I'll take off my wet things and wrap myself in the coverlet and tell you over again . 
She took off her hat and coat and hung them on a nail against the wall , and she changed her wet shoes for an old pair of slippers . 
Then she jumped on the bed , and drawing the coverlet about her shoulders , sat with her arms round her knees . 
Now , listen , she said . 
She plunged into the gory records of the French Revolution , and told such stories of it that Ermengarde's eyes grew round with alarm and she held her breath . 
You know they put her head on a pike and danced round it , Sara explained . 
It was agreed that Mr. St . 
John was to be told the plan they had made , and for the present the books were to be left in the attic . 
Now let's tell each other things , said Sara . 
How are you getting on with your French lessons ? Ever so much better since the last time I came up here and you explained the conjugations . 
Miss Minchin could not understand why I did my exercises so well that first morning . 
Sara laughed a little and hugged her knees . 
She doesn't understand why Lottie is doing her sums so well , she said but it is because she creeps up here , too , and I help her . 
She glanced round the room . 
The attic would be rather nice if it wasn't so dreadful , she said , laughing again . 
It's a good place to pretend in . 
The truth was that Ermengarde did not know anything of the sometimes almost unbearable side of life in the attic and she had not a sufficiently vivid imagination to depict it for herself . 
On the rare occasions that she could reach Sara's room she only saw the side of it which was made exciting by things which were pretended and stories which were told . 
She had never confessed that at times she was almost ravenous with hunger , as she was tonight . 
She was growing used to a certain gnawing feeling in her young stomach . 
I suppose soldiers feel like this when they are on a long and weary march , she often said to herself . 
She liked the sound of the phrase , long and weary march . 
It made her feel rather like a soldier . 
She had also a quaint sense of being a hostess in the attic . 
When she comes into the attic I can't spread feasts , but I can tell stories , and not let her know disagreeable things . 
I dare say poor chatelaines had to do that in time of famine , when their lands had been pillaged . 
She felt as if she had never been quite so hungry before . 
I wish I was as thin as you , Sara , Ermengarde said suddenly . 
I believe you are thinner than you used to be . 
Your eyes look so big , and look at the sharp little bones sticking out of your elbow ! Sara pulled down her sleeve , which had pushed itself up . 
I always was a thin child , she said bravely , and I always had big green eyes . 
I love your queer eyes , said Ermengarde , looking into them with affectionate admiration . 
They always look as if they saw such a long way . 
I love them and I love them to be green though they look black generally . 
They are cat's eyes , laughed Sara but I can't see in the dark with them because I have tried , and I couldn't I wish I could . 
It was just at this minute that something happened at the skylight which neither of them saw . 
Not QUITE as silently , however . 
Sara , who had keen ears , suddenly turned a little and looked up at the roof . 
That didn't sound like Melchisedec , she said . 
What ? said Ermengarde , a little startled . 
Didn't you think you heard something ? asked Sara . 
N no , Ermengarde faltered . 
Did you ? another ed . 
has No no , Perhaps I didn't , said Sara but I thought I did . 
It sounded as if something was on the slates something that dragged softly . 
What could it be ? said Ermengarde . 
Could it be robbers ? No , Sara began cheerfully . 
There is nothing to steal She broke off in the middle of her words . 
They both heard the sound that checked her . 
It was not on the slates , but on the stairs below , and it was Miss Minchin's angry voice . 
Sara sprang off the bed , and put out the candle . 
She is scolding Becky , she whispered , as she stood in the darkness . 
She is making her cry . 
Will she come in here ? Ermengarde whispered back , panic stricken . 
No. She will think I am in bed . 
It was very seldom that Miss Minchin mounted the last flight of stairs . 
Sara could only remember that she had done it once before . 
But now she was angry enough to be coming at least part of the way up , and it sounded as if she was driving Becky before her . 
You impudent , dishonest child ! they heard her say . 
Cook tells me she has missed things repeatedly . 
'T warn't me , mum , said Becky sobbing . 
I was 'ungry enough , but 't warn't me never ! You deserve to be sent to prison , said Miss Minchin's voice . 
Picking and stealing ! Half a meat pie , indeed ! 'T warn't me , wept Becky . 
I could 'ave eat a whole un but I never laid a finger on it . 
Miss Minchin was out of breath between temper and mounting the stairs . 
The meat pie had been intended for her special late supper . 
It became apparent that she boxed Becky's ears . 
Don't tell falsehoods , she said . 
Go to your room this instant . 
Both Sara and Ermengarde heard the slap , and then heard Becky run in her slipshod shoes up the stairs and into her attic . 
They heard her door shut , and knew that she threw herself upon her bed . 
I could 'ave e't two of 'em , they heard her cry into her pillow . 
An' I never took a bite . 
'Twas cook give it to her policeman . 
Sara stood in the middle of the room in the darkness . 
She was clenching her little teeth and opening and shutting fiercely her outstretched hands . 
She could scarcely stand still , but she dared not move until Miss Minchin had gone down the stairs and all was still . 
The wicked , cruel thing ! she burst forth . 
The cook takes things herself and then says Becky steals them . 
Sara was crying ! The unconquerable Sara ! It seemed to denote something new some mood she had never known . 
Suppose suppose a new dread possibility presented itself to her kind , slow , little mind all at once . 
She crept off the bed in the dark and found her way to the table where the candle stood . 
She struck a match and lit the candle . 
When she had lighted it , she bent forward and looked at Sara , with her new thought growing to definite fear in her eyes . 
Sara lifted her face from her hands . 
Yes , she said in a new passionate way . 
I'm so hungry now that I could almost eat you . 
And it makes it worse to hear poor Becky . 
She's hungrier than I am . 
Oh , oh ! she cried woefully . 
And I never knew ! I didn't want you to know , Sara said . 
It would have made me feel like a street beggar . 
I know I look like a street beggar . 
No , you don't you don't ! Ermengarde broke in . 
Your clothes are a little queer but you couldn't look like a street beggar . 
You haven't a street beggar face . 
A little boy once gave me a sixpence for charity , said Sara , with a short little laugh in spite of herself . 
And she pulled out the thin ribbon from her neck . 
He wouldn't have given me his Christmas sixpence if I hadn't looked as if I needed it . 
Somehow the sight of the dear little sixpence was good for both of them . 
It made them laugh a little , though they both had tears in their eyes . 
Who was he ? asked Ermengarde , looking at it quite as if it had not been a mere ordinary silver sixpence . 
He was a darling little thing going to a party , said Sara . 
He was one of the Large Family , the little one with the round legs the one I call Guy Clarence . 
I suppose his nursery was crammed with Christmas presents and hampers full of cakes and things , and he could see I had nothing . 
Ermengarde gave a little jump backward . 
The last sentences had recalled something to her troubled mind and given her a sudden inspiration . 
Oh , Sara ! she cried . 
What a silly thing I am not to have thought of it ! Of what ? Something splendid ! said Ermengarde , in an excited hurry . 
This very afternoon my nicest aunt sent me a box . 
It is full of good things . 
I never touched it , I had so much pudding at dinner , and I was so bothered about papa's books . 
Her words began to tumble over each other . 
It's got cake in it , and little meat pies , and jam tarts and buns , and oranges and red currant wine , and figs and chocolate . 
I'll creep back to my room and get it this minute , and we'll eat it now . 
When one is faint with hunger the mention of food has sometimes a curious effect . 
Do you think you COULD ? she ejaculated . 
I know I could , answered Ermengarde , and she ran to the door opened it softly put her head out into the darkness , and listened . 
Then she went back to Sara . 
I can creep and creep and no one will hear . 
It was so delightful that they caught each other's hands and a sudden light sprang into Sara's eyes . 
Sara went to the wall . 
Through it she could hear poor Becky crying more softly . 
That means , Come to me through the secret passage under the wall , she explained . 
I have something to communicate . 
Five quick knocks answered her . 
She is coming , she said . 
Almost immediately the door of the attic opened and Becky appeared . 
Her eyes were red and her cap was sliding off , and when she caught sight of Ermengarde she began to rub her face nervously with her apron . 
Don't mind me a bit , Becky ! cried Ermengarde . 
Miss Ermengarde has asked you to come in , said Sara , because she is going to bring a box of good things up here to us . 
Becky's cap almost fell off entirely , she broke in with such excitement . 
To eat , miss ? she said . 
Things that's good to eat ? Yes , answered Sara , and we are going to pretend a party . 
And you shall have as much as you WANT to eat , put in Ermengarde . 
I'll go this minute ! She was in such haste that as she tiptoed out of the attic she dropped her red shawl and did not know it had fallen . 
No one saw it for a minute or so . 
Becky was too much overpowered by the good luck which had befallen her . 
Oh , miss ! oh , miss ! she gasped I know it was you that asked her to let me come . 
It it makes me cry to think of it . 
And she went to Sara's side and stood and looked at her worshipingly . 
But in Sara's hungry eyes the old light had begun to glow and transform her world for her . 
Somehow , something always happens , she cried , just before things get to the very worst . 
It is as if the Magic did it . 
If I could only just remember that always . 
The worst thing never QUITE comes . 
She gave Becky a little cheerful shake . 
No , no ! You mustn't cry ! she said . 
We must make haste and set the table . 
Set the table , miss ? said Becky , gazing round the room . 
What'll we set it with ? Sara looked round the attic , too . 
There doesn't seem to be much , she answered , half laughing . 
That moment she saw something and pounced upon it . 
It was Ermengarde's red shawl which lay upon the floor . 
Here's the shawl , she cried . 
I know she won't mind it . 
It will make such a nice red tablecloth . 
They pulled the old table forward , and threw the shawl over it . 
Red is a wonderfully kind and comfortable color . 
It began to make the room look furnished directly . 
How nice a red rug would look on the floor ! exclaimed Sara . 
We must pretend there is one ! Her eye swept the bare boards with a swift glance of admiration . 
The rug was laid down already . 
Yes , miss , answered Becky , watching her with serious rapture . 
She was always quite serious . 
What next , now ? said Sara , and she stood still and put her hands over her eyes . 
Something will come if I think and wait a little in a soft , expectant voice . 
The Magic will tell me . 
One of her favorite fancies was that on the outside , as she called it , thoughts were waiting for people to call them . 
Becky had seen her stand and wait many a time before , and knew that in a few seconds she would uncover an enlightened , laughing face . 
In a moment she did . 
It has come ! I know now ! I must look among the things in the old trunk I had when I was a princess . 
She flew to its corner and kneeled down . 
It had not been put in the attic for her benefit , but because there was no room for it elsewhere . 
Nothing had been left in it but rubbish . 
But she knew she should find something . 
The Magic always arranged that kind of thing in one way or another . 
In a corner lay a package so insignificant looking that it had been overlooked , and when she herself had found it she had kept it as a relic . 
It contained a dozen small white handkerchiefs . 
She seized them joyfully and ran to the table . 
These are the plates , she said . 
These are the richly embroidered napkins . 
Nuns worked them in convents in Spain . 
Did they , miss ? breathed Becky , her very soul uplifted by the information . 
You must pretend it , said Sara . 
If you pretend it enough , you will see them . 
Yes , miss , said Becky and as Sara returned to the trunk she devoted herself to the effort of accomplishing an end so much to be desired . 
Sara turned suddenly to find her standing by the table , looking very queer indeed . 
She had shut her eyes , and was twisting her face in strange convulsive contortions , her hands hanging stiffly clenched at her sides . 
She looked as if she was trying to lift some enormous weight . 
What is the matter , Becky ? Sara cried . 
What are you doing ? Becky opened her eyes with a start . 
I was a 'pretendin' , miss , she answered a little sheepishly I was tryin' to see it like you do . 
I almost did , with a hopeful grin . 
But it takes a lot o' stren'th . 
Perhaps it does if you are not used to it , said Sara , with friendly sympathy but you don't know how easy it is when you've done it often . 
I wouldn't try so hard just at first . 
It will come to you after a while . 
I'll just tell you what things are . 
She held an old summer hat in her hand which she had fished out of the bottom of the trunk . 
There was a wreath of flowers on it . 
She pulled the wreath off . 
These are garlands for the feast , she said grandly . 
They fill all the air with perfume . 
There's a mug on the wash stand , Becky . 
Oh and bring the soap dish for a cen terpiece . 
Becky handed them to her reverently . 
What are they now , miss ? she inquired . 
You'd think they was made of crockery but I know they ain't . 
This is a carven flagon , said Sara , arranging tendrils of the wreath about the mug . 
And this bending tenderly over the soap dish and heaping it with roses is purest alabaster encrusted with gems . 
She touched the things gently , a happy smile hovering about her lips which made her look as if she were a creature in a dream . 
My , ain't it lovely ! whispered Becky . 
If we just had something for bonbon dishes , Sara murmured . 
There ! darting to the trunk again . 
I remember I saw something this minute . 
Only the Magic could have made it more than an old table covered with a red shawl and set with rubbish from a long unopened trunk . 
But Sara drew back and gazed at it , seeing wonders and Becky , after staring in delight , spoke with bated breath . 
This 'ere , she suggested , with a glance round the attic is it the Bastille now or has it turned into somethin' different ? Oh , yes , yes ! said Sara . 
It is a banquet hall ! My eye , miss ! ejaculated Becky . 
A blanket 'all ! and she turned to view the splendors about her with awed bewilderment . 
A banquet hall , said Sara . 
A vast chamber where feasts are given . 
It has a vaulted roof , and a minstrels' gallery , and a huge chimney filled with blazing oaken logs , and it is brilliant with waxen tapers twinkling on every side . 
My eye , Miss Sara ! gasped Becky again . 
Then the door opened , and Ermengarde came in , rather staggering under the weight of her hamper . 
She started back with an exclamation of joy . 
Oh , Sara ! she cried out . 
You are the cleverest girl I ever saw ! Isn't it nice ? said Sara . 
They are things out of my old trunk . 
I asked my Magic , and it told me to go and look . 
But oh , miss , cried Becky , wait till she's told you what they are ! They ain't just oh , miss , please tell her , appealing to Sara . 
So Sara told her , and because her Magic helped her she made her ALMOST see it all the golden platters the vaulted spaces the blazing logs the twinkling waxen tapers . 
As the things were taken out of the hamper the frosted cakes the fruits the bonbons and the wine the feast became a splendid thing . 
It's like a real party ! cried Ermengarde . 
It's like a queen's table , sighed Becky . 
Then Ermengarde had a sudden brilliant thought . 
I'll tell you what , Sara , she said . 
Pretend you are a princess now and this is a royal feast . 
But it's your feast , said Sara you must be the princess , and we will be your maids of honor . 
Oh , I can't , said Ermengarde . 
I'm too fat , and I don't know how . 
Well , if you want me to , said Sara . 
But suddenly she thought of something else and ran to the rusty grate . 
There is a lot of paper and rubbish stuffed in here ! she exclaimed . 
If we light it , there will be a bright blaze for a few minutes , and we shall feel as if it was a real fire . 
She struck a match and lighted it up with a great specious glow which illuminated the room . 
By the time it stops blazing , Sara said , we shall forget about its not being real . 
She stood in the dancing glow and smiled . 
Doesn't it LOOK real ? she said . 
Now we will begin the party . 
She led the way to the table . 
She waved her hand graciously to Ermengarde and Becky . 
She was in the midst of her dream . 
Advance , fair damsels , she said in her happy dream voice , and be seated at the banquet table . 
My noble father , the king , who is absent on a long journey , has commanded me to feast you . 
She turned her head slightly toward the corner of the room . 
What , ho , there , minstrels ! Strike up with your viols and bassoons . 
Princesses , she explained rapidly to Ermengarde and Becky , always had minstrels to play at their feasts . 
Pretend there is a minstrel gallery up there in the corner . 
Someone was coming up the stairs . 
There was no mistake about it . 
Each of them recognized the angry , mounting tread and knew that the end of all things had come . 
It's the missus ! choked Becky , and dropped her piece of cake upon the floor . 
Yes , said Sara , her eyes growing shocked and large in her small white face . 
Miss Minchin has found us out . 
Miss Minchin struck the door open with a blow of her hand . 
She was pale herself , but it was with rage . 
She looked from the frightened faces to the banquet table , and from the banquet table to the last flicker of the burnt paper in the grate . 
I have been suspecting something of this sort , she exclaimed but I did not dream of such audacity . 
Lavinia was telling the truth . 
So they knew that it was Lavinia who had somehow guessed their secret and had betrayed them . 
Miss Minchin strode over to Becky and boxed her ears for a second time . 
You impudent creature ! she said . 
You leave the house in the morning ! Sara stood quite still , her eyes growing larger , her face paler . 
Oh , don't send her away , she sobbed . 
My aunt sent me the hamper . 
We're only having a party . 
So I see , said Miss Minchin , witheringly . 
With the Princess Sara at the head of the table . 
She turned fiercely on Sara . 
It is your doing , I know , she cried . 
Ermengarde would never have thought of such a thing . 
You decorated the table , I suppose with this rubbish . 
She stamped her foot at Becky . 
Go to your attic ! she commanded , and Becky stole away , her face hidden in her apron , her shoulders shaking . 
Then it was Sara's turn again . 
I will attend to you tomorrow . 
You shall have neither breakfast , dinner , nor supper ! I have not had either dinner or supper today , Miss Minchin , said Sara , rather faintly . 
You will have something to remember . 
Put those things into the hamper again . 
She began to sweep them off the table into the hamper herself , and caught sight of Ermengarde's new books . 
And you to Ermengarde have brought your beautiful new books into this dirty attic . 
Take them up and go back to bed . 
You will stay there all day tomorrow , and I shall write to your papa . 
What would HE say if he knew where you are tonight ? Something she saw in Sara's grave , fixed gaze at this moment made her turn on her fiercely . 
What are you thinking of ? she demanded . 
Why do you look at me like that ? I was wondering , answered Sara , as she had answered that notable day in the schoolroom . 
What were you wondering ? It was very like the scene in the schoolroom . 
There was no pertness in Sara's manner . 
It was only sad and quiet . 
I was wondering , she said in a low voice , what MY papa would say if he knew where I am tonight . 
Miss Minchin was infuriated just as she had been before and her anger expressed itself , as before , in an intemperate fashion . 
She flew at her and shook her . 
You insolent , unmanageable child ! she cried . 
I will leave you to wonder , she said . 
Go to bed this instant . 
And she shut the door behind herself and poor stumbling Ermengarde , and left Sara standing quite alone . 
The dream was quite at an end . 
Emily was sitting with her back against the wall , staring very hard . 
Sara saw her , and went and picked her up with trembling hands . 
There isn't any banquet left , Emily , she said . 
And there isn't any princess . 
There is nothing left but the prisoners in the Bastille . 
And she sat down and hid her face . 
She would have seen exactly the same face pressed against the glass and peering in at her as it had peered in earlier in the evening when she had been talking to Ermengarde . 
But she did not look up . 
She sat with her little black head in her arms for some time . 
She always sat like that when she was trying to bear something in silence . 
Then she got up and went slowly to the bed . 
I can't pretend anything else while I am awake , she said . 
There wouldn't be any use in trying . 
If I go to sleep , perhaps a dream will come and pretend for me . 
She suddenly felt so tired perhaps through want of food that she sat down on the edge of the bed quite weakly . 
Suppose there was a bright fire in the grate , with lots of little dancing flames , she murmured . 
Suppose there was a comfortable chair before it and suppose there was a small table near , with a little hot hot supper on it . 
And suppose as she drew the thin coverings over her suppose this was a beautiful soft bed , with fleecy blankets and large downy pillows . 
Suppose suppose And her very weariness was good to her , for her eyes closed and she fell fast asleep . 
She did not know how long she slept . 
When she awakened it was rather suddenly , and she did not know that any particular thing had called her out of her sleep . 
At first she did not open her eyes . 
She felt too sleepy and curiously enough too warm and comfortable . 
She was so warm and comfortable , indeed , that she did not believe she was really awake . 
She never was as warm and cozy as this except in some lovely vision . 
What a nice dream ! she murmured . 
I don't want to wake up . 
Of course it was a dream . 
She felt as if warm , delightful bedclothes were heaped upon her . 
She could actually FEEL blankets , and when she put out her hand it touched something exactly like a satin covered eider down quilt . 
She must not awaken from this delight she must be quite still and make it last . 
But she could not even though she kept her eyes closed tightly , she could not . 
Something was forcing her to awaken something in the room . 
It was a sense of light , and a sound the sound of a crackling , roaring little fire . 
Oh , I am awakening , she said mournfully . 
I can't help it I can't . 
Her eyes opened in spite of herself . 
And then she actually smiled for what she saw she had never seen in the attic before , and knew she never should see . 
Oh , I HAVEN'T awakened , she whispered , daring to rise on her elbow and look all about her . 
She knew it MUST be a dream , for if she were awake such things could not could not be . 
Do you wonder that she felt sure she had not come back to earth ? This is what she saw . 
The room of her dream seemed changed into fairyland and it was flooded with warm light , for a bright lamp stood on the table covered with a rosy shade . 
She sat up , resting on her elbow , and her breathing came short and fast . 
It does not melt away , she panted . 
Oh , I never had such a dream before . 
She scarcely dared to stir but at last she pushed the bedclothes aside , and put her feet on the floor with a rapturous smile . 
It's bewitched or I'm bewitched . 
I only THINK I see it all . 
Her words began to hurry themselves . 
If I can only keep on thinking it , she cried , I don't care ! I don't care ! She stood panting a moment longer , and then cried out again . 
Oh , it isn't true ! she said . 
A fire I only dreamed wouldn't be HOT , she cried . 
She sprang up , touched the table , the dishes , the rug she went to the bed and touched the blankets . 
She took up the soft wadded dressing gown , and suddenly clutched it to her breast and held it to her cheek . 
It's soft ! she almost sobbed . 
It must be ! She threw it over her shoulders , and put her feet into the slippers . 
They are real , too . 
It's all real ! she cried . 
I am NOT I am NOT dreaming ! She almost staggered to the books and opened the one which lay upon the top . 
Something was written on the flyleaf just a few words , and they were these To the little girl in the attic . 
When she saw that wasn't it a strange thing for her to do she put her face down upon the page and burst into tears . 
I don't know who it is , she said but somebody cares for me a little . 
She took her candle and stole out of her own room and into Becky's , and stood by her bedside . 
Becky , Becky ! she whispered as loudly as she dared . 
The face she saw was a shining , wonderful thing . 
The Princess Sara as she remembered her stood at her very bedside , holding a candle in her hand . 
Oh , Becky , come ! Becky was too frightened to speak . 
She simply got up and followed her , with her mouth and eyes open , and without a word . 
And when they crossed the threshold , Sara shut the door gently and drew her into the warm , glowing midst of things which made her brain reel and her hungry senses faint . 
It's true ! It's true ! she cried . 
They are as real as we are . 
The Magic has come and done it , Becky , while we were asleep the Magic that won't let those worst things EVER quite happen . 
The Visitor Imagine , if you can , what the rest of the evening was like . 
How they crouched by the fire which blazed and leaped and made so much of itself in the little grate . 
The mug from the washstand was used as Becky's tea cup , and the tea was so delicious that it was not necessary to pretend that it was anything but tea . 
I don't know anyone in the world who could have done it , she said but there has been someone . 
And here we are sitting by their fire and and it's true ! And whoever it is wherever they are I have a friend , Becky someone is my friend . 
If it was only a dream , kitchen manners would be overlooked . 
No , it won't melt away , said Sara . 
I am EATING this muffin , and I can taste it . 
You never really eat things in dreams . 
You only think you are going to eat them . 
Besides , I keep giving myself pinches and I touched a hot piece of coal just now , on purpose . 
The sleepy comfort which at length almost overpowered them was a heavenly thing . 
It was the drowsiness of happy , well fed childhood , and they sat in the fire glow and luxuriated in it until Sara found herself turning to look at her transformed bed . 
There were even blankets enough to share with Becky . 
The narrow couch in the next attic was more comfortable that night than its occupant had ever dreamed that it could be . 
As she went out of the room , Becky turned upon the threshold and looked about her with devouring eyes . 
If it ain't here in the mornin' , miss , she said , it's been here tonight , anyways , an' I shan't never forget it . 
She looked at each particular thing , as if to commit it to memory . 
And , with this conviction a reality at least , she went away . 
The elder girls in the schoolroom knew that if Miss Minchin did not send Sara away it was for practical reasons of her own . 
It was rather nasty of you , Lavvy , to tell about her having fun in the garret . 
How did you find it out ? I got it out of Lottie . 
She's such a baby she didn't know she was telling me . 
There was nothing nasty at all in speaking to Miss Minchin . 
I felt it my duty priggishly . 
Ermengarde had taken up her hamper to share with Sara and Becky . 
She never invites us to share things . 
Not that I care , but it's rather vulgar of her to share with servant girls in attics . 
I wonder Miss Minchin didn't turn Sara out even if she does want her for a teacher . 
If she was turned out where would she go ? inquired Jessie , a trifle anxiously . 
How do I know ? snapped Lavinia . 
She'll look rather queer when she comes into the schoolroom this morning , I should think after what's happened . 
She had no dinner yesterday , and she's not to have any today . 
Jessie was not as ill natured as she was silly . 
She picked up her book with a little jerk . 
Well , I think it's horrid , she said . 
They've no right to starve her to death . 
When Sara went into the kitchen that morning the cook looked askance at her , and so did the housemaids but she passed them hurriedly . 
Sara went into the scullery . 
Becky was violently scrubbing a kettle , and was actually gurgling a little song in her throat . 
She looked up with a wildly elated face . 
It was there when I wakened , miss the blanket , she whispered excitedly . 
It was as real as it was last night . 
So was mine , said Sara . 
It is all there now all of it . 
While I was dressing I ate some of the cold things we left . 
Miss Minchin had expected to see in Sara , when she appeared in the schoolroom , very much what Lavinia had expected to see . 
Sara had always been an annoying puzzle to her , because severity never made her cry or look frightened . 
The very fact that she never made an impudent answer seemed to Miss Minchin a kind of impudence in itself . 
But after yesterday's deprivation of meals , the violent scene of last night , the prospect of hunger today , she must surely have broken down . 
It would be strange indeed if she did not come downstairs with pale cheeks and red eyes and an unhappy , humbled face . 
Miss Minchin saw her for the first time when she entered the schoolroom to hear the little French class recite its lessons and superintend its exercises . 
And she came in with a springing step , color in her cheeks , and a smile hovering about the corners of her mouth . 
It was the most astonishing thing Miss Minchin had ever known . 
It gave her quite a shock . 
What was the child made of ? What could such a thing mean ? She called her at once to her desk . 
You do not look as if you realize that you are in disgrace , she said . 
Miss Minchin was almost struck dumb by the look of Sara's eyes when she made her perfectly respectful answer . 
I beg your pardon , Miss Minchin , she said I know that I am in disgrace . 
Be good enough not to forget it and look as if you had come into a fortune . 
And remember you are to have no food today . 
Yes , Miss Minchin , Sara answered but as she turned away her heart leaped with the memory of what yesterday had been . 
If the Magic had not saved me just in time , she thought , how horrible it would have been ! She can't be very hungry , whispered Lavinia . 
Perhaps she is pretending she has had a good breakfast with a spiteful laugh . 
She's different from other people , said Jessie , watching Sara with her class . 
Sometimes I'm a bit frightened of her . 
Ridiculous thing ! ejaculated Lavinia . 
All through the day the light was in Sara's face , and the color in her cheek . 
The servants cast puzzled glances at her , and whispered to each other , and Miss Amelia's small blue eyes wore an expression of bewilderment . 
What such an audacious look of well being , under august displeasure could mean she could not understand . 
It was , however , just like Sara's singular obstinate way . 
She was probably determined to brave the matter out . 
One thing Sara had resolved upon , as she thought things over . 
The wonders which had happened must be kept a secret , if such a thing were possible . 
If Miss Minchin should choose to mount to the attic again , of course all would be discovered . 
But it did not seem likely that she would do so for some time at least , unless she was led by suspicion . 
Ermengarde and Lottie would be watched with such strictness that they would not dare to steal out of their beds again . 
Ermengarde could be told the story and trusted to keep it secret . 
If Lottie made any discoveries , she could be bound to secrecy also . 
Perhaps the Magic itself would help to hide its own marvels . 
But whatever happens , Sara kept saying to herself all day WHATEVER happens , somewhere in the world there is a heavenly kind person who is my friend my friend . 
If I never know who it is if I never can even thank him I shall never feel quite so lonely . 
There were more errands to be done , the cook was more irritable , and , knowing that Sara was in disgrace , she was more savage . 
But what does anything matter when one's Magic has just proved itself one's friend . 
It was quite late when she was at last allowed to go upstairs . 
She had been told to go into the schoolroom and study until ten o'clock , and she had become interested in her work , and remained over her books later . 
When she reached the top flight of stairs and stood before the attic door , it must be confessed that her heart beat rather fast . 
Of course it MIGHT all have been taken away , she whispered , trying to be brave . 
It might only have been lent to me for just that one awful night . 
But it WAS lent to me I had it . 
She pushed the door open and went in . 
Once inside , she gasped slightly , shut the door , and stood with her back against it looking from side to side . 
The Magic had been there again . 
It actually had , and it had done even more than before . 
The fire was blazing , in lovely leaping flames , more merrily than ever . 
A number of new things had been brought into the attic which so altered the look of it that if she had not been past doubting she would have rubbed her eyes . 
All the bare , ugly things which could be covered with draperies had been concealed and made to look quite pretty . 
Some odd materials of rich colors had been fastened against the wall with fine , sharp tacks so sharp that they could be pressed into the wood and plaster without hammering . 
Some brilliant fans were pinned up , and there were several large cushions , big and substantial enough to use as seats . 
A wooden box was covered with a rug , and some cushions lay on it , so that it wore quite the air of a sofa . 
Sara slowly moved away from the door and simply sat down and looked and looked again . 
It is exactly like something fairy come true , she said . 
There isn't the least difference . 
I feel as if I might wish for anything diamonds or bags of gold and they would appear ! THAT wouldn't be any stranger than this . 
I am LIVING in a fairy story . 
I feel as if I might be a fairy myself , and able to turn things into anything else . 
She rose and knocked upon the wall for the prisoner in the next cell , and the prisoner came . 
When she entered she almost dropped in a heap upon the floor . 
For a few seconds she quite lost her breath . 
Oh , laws ! she gasped . 
Oh , laws , miss ! You see , said Sara . 
On this night Becky sat on a cushion upon the hearth rug and had a cup and saucer of her own . 
When Sara went to bed she found that she had a new thick mattress and big downy pillows . 
Her old mattress and pillow had been removed to Becky's bedstead , and , consequently , with these additions Becky had been supplied with unheard of comfort . 
Where does it all come from ? Becky broke forth once . 
Laws , who does it , miss ? Don't let us even ASK , said Sara . 
If it were not that I want to say , Oh , thank you , I would rather not know . 
It makes it more beautiful . 
From that time life became more wonderful day by day . 
Almost every day something new was done . 
Miss Minchin was as harsh and insulting as ever , Miss Amelia as peevish , and the servants were as vulgar and rude . 
Sometimes , when she was scolded , she could scarcely keep from smiling . 
If you only knew ! she was saying to herself . 
If you only knew ! The comfort and happiness she enjoyed were making her stronger , and she had them always to look forward to . 
If she came home from her errands wet and tired and hungry , she knew she would soon be warm and well fed after she had climbed the stairs . 
During the hardest day she could occupy herself blissfully by thinking of what she should see when she opened the attic door , and wondering what new delight had been prepared for her . 
In a very short time she began to look less thin . 
Color came into her cheeks , and her eyes did not seem so much too big for her face . 
Sara Crewe looks wonderfully well , Miss Minchin remarked disapprovingly to her sister . 
Yes , answered poor , silly Miss Amelia . 
She was beginning to look like a little starved crow . 
Starved ! exclaimed Miss Minchin , angrily . 
There was no reason why she should look starved . 
She always had plenty to eat ! Of of course , agreed Miss Amelia , humbly , alarmed to find that she had , as usual , said the wrong thing . 
There is something very disagreeable in seeing that sort of thing in a child of her age , said Miss Minchin , with haughty vagueness . 
What sort of thing ? Miss Amelia ventured . 
The spirit and will of any other child would have been entirely humbled and broken by by the changes she has had to submit to . 
But , upon my word , she seems as little subdued as if as if she were a princess . 
But she remembered very clearly indeed . 
Very naturally , even Becky was beginning to look plumper and less frightened . 
She could not help it . 
She had her share in the secret fairy story , too . 
She had two mattresses , two pillows , plenty of bed covering , and every night a hot supper and a seat on the cushions by the fire . 
The Bastille had melted away , the prisoners no longer existed . 
Two comforted children sat in the midst of delights . 
Then it came about that another wonderful thing happened . 
A man came to the door and left several parcels . 
All were addressed in large letters , To the Little Girl in the right hand attic . 
Sara herself was sent to open the door and take them in . 
She laid the two largest parcels on the hall table , and was looking at the address , when Miss Minchin came down the stairs and saw her . 
Take the things to the young lady to whom they belong , she said severely . 
Don't stand there staring at them . 
They belong to me , answered Sara , quietly . 
To you ? exclaimed Miss Minchin . 
What do you mean ? I don't know where they come from , said Sara , but they are addressed to me . 
I sleep in the right hand attic . 
Becky has the other one . 
Miss Minchin came to her side and looked at the parcels with an excited expression . 
What is in them ? she demanded . 
I don't know , replied Sara . 
Open them , she ordered . 
Sara did as she was told . 
When the packages were unfolded Miss Minchin's countenance wore suddenly a singular expression . 
What she saw was pretty and comfortable clothing clothing of different kinds shoes , stockings , and gloves , and a warm and beautiful coat . 
There were even a nice hat and an umbrella . 
They were all good and expensive things , and on the pocket of the coat was pinned a paper , on which were written these words To be worn every day . 
Will be replaced by others when necessary . 
Miss Minchin was quite agitated . 
This was an incident which suggested strange things to her sordid mind . 
A man of that sort might prefer to overlook his young relation's welfare at a distance . 
Such a person , however , would be sure to be crotchety and hot tempered enough to be easily offended . 
She felt very queer indeed , and very uncertain , and she gave a side glance at Sara . 
Well , she said , in a voice such as she had never used since the little girl lost her father , someone is very kind to you . 
As the things have been sent , and you are to have new ones when they are worn out , you may as well go and put them on and look respectable . 
After you are dressed you may come downstairs and learn your lessons in the schoolroom . 
You need not go out on any more errands today . 
About half an hour afterward , when the schoolroom door opened and Sara walked in , the entire seminary was struck dumb . 
My word ! ejaculated Jessie , jogging Lavinia's elbow . 
Look at the Princess Sara ! Everybody was looking , and when Lavinia looked she turned quite red . 
It was the Princess Sara indeed . 
At least , since the days when she had been a princess , Sara had never looked as she did now . 
She did not seem the Sara they had seen come down the back stairs a few hours ago . 
She was dressed in the kind of frock Lavinia had been used to envying her the possession of . 
It was deep and warm in color , and beautifully made . 
Perhaps someone has left her a fortune , Jessie whispered . 
I always thought something would happen to her . 
Perhaps the diamond mines have suddenly appeared again , said Lavinia , scathingly . 
Don't please her by staring at her in that way , you silly thing . 
Sara , broke in Miss Minchin's deep voice , come and sit here . 
That night , when she went to her room , after she and Becky had eaten their supper she sat and looked at the fire seriously for a long time . 
Are you making something up in your head , miss ? Becky inquired with respectful softness . 
When Sara sat in silence and looked into the coals with dreaming eyes it generally meant that she was making a new story . 
But this time she was not , and she shook her head . 
I am wondering what I ought to do . 
She was filled with something approaching reverence for everything Sara did and said . 
I can't help thinking about my friend , Sara explained . 
If he wants to keep himself a secret , it would be rude to try and find out who he is . 
But I do so want him to know how thankful I am to him and how happy he has made me . 
Anyone who is kind wants to know when people have been made happy . 
They care for that more than for being thanked . 
I wish I do wish She stopped short because her eyes at that instant fell upon something standing on a table in a corner . 
It was something she had found in the room when she came up to it only two days before . 
It was a little writing case fitted with paper and envelopes and pens and ink . 
Oh , she exclaimed , why did I not think of that before ? She rose and went to the corner and brought the case back to the fire . 
I can write to him , she said joyfully , and leave it on the table . 
Then perhaps the person who takes the things away will take it , too . 
I won't ask him anything . 
He won't mind my thanking him , I feel sure . 
So she wrote a note . 
This is what she said I hope you will not think it is impolite that I should write this note to you when you wish to keep yourself a secret . 
I am so grateful to you , and I am so happy and so is Becky . 
Becky feels just as thankful as I do it is all just as beautiful and wonderful to her as it is to me . 
We used to be so lonely and cold and hungry , and now oh , just think what you have done for us ! Please let me say just these words . 
It seems as if I OUGHT to say them . 
THANK you THANK you THANK you ! THE LITTLE GIRL IN THE ATTIC . 
She was reading one of her new books to Becky just before they went to their respective beds , when her attention was attracted by a sound at the skylight . 
When she looked up from her page she saw that Becky had heard the sound also , as she had turned her head to look and was listening rather nervously . 
Something's there , miss , she whispered . 
Yes , said Sara , slowly . 
It sounds rather like a cat trying to get in . 
She left her chair and went to the skylight . 
It was a queer little sound she heard like a soft scratching . 
She suddenly remembered something and laughed . 
She remembered a quaint little intruder who had made his way into the attic once before . 
She had seen him that very afternoon , sitting disconsolately on a table before a window in the Indian gentleman's house . 
Suppose , she whispered in pleased excitement just suppose it was the monkey who got away again . 
Oh , I wish it was ! She climbed on a chair , very cautiously raised the skylight , and peeped out . 
It is the monkey , she cried out . 
He has crept out of the Lascar's attic , and he saw the light . 
Becky ran to her side . 
Are you going to let him in , miss ? she said . 
Yes , Sara answered joyfully . 
It's too cold for monkeys to be out . 
She put a hand out delicately , speaking in a coaxing voice as she spoke to the sparrows and to Melchisedec as if she were some friendly little animal herself . 
Come along , monkey darling , she said . 
He knew she would not hurt him . 
He knew it before she laid her soft , caressing little paw on him and drew him towards her . 
He had felt human love in the slim brown hands of Ram Dass , and he felt it in hers . 
He let her lift him through the skylight , and when he found himself in her arms he cuddled up to her breast and looked up into her face . 
Nice monkey ! Nice monkey ! she crooned , kissing his funny head . 
Oh , I do love little animal things . 
He was evidently glad to get to the fire , and when she sat down and held him on her knee he looked from her to Becky with mingled interest and appreciation . 
He IS plain looking , miss , ain't he ? said Becky . 
He looks like a very ugly baby , laughed Sara . 
I beg your pardon , monkey but I'm glad you are not a baby . 
Your mother COULDN'T be proud of you , and no one would dare to say you looked like any of your relations . 
Oh , I do like you ! She leaned back in her chair and reflected . 
Perhaps he's sorry he's so ugly , she said , and it's always on his mind . 
I wonder if he HAS a mind . 
Monkey , my love , have you a mind ? But the monkey only put up a tiny paw and scratched his head . 
What shall you do with him ? Becky asked . 
I shall let him sleep with me tonight , and then take him back to the Indian gentleman tomorrow . 
I am sorry to take you back , monkey but you must go . 
You ought to be fondest of your own family and I'm not a REAL relation . 
It Is the Child ! The next afternoon three members of the Large Family sat in the Indian gentleman's library , doing their best to cheer him up . 
They had been allowed to come in to perform this office because he had specially invited them . 
He had been living in a state of suspense for some time , and today he was waiting for a certain event very anxiously . 
This event was the return of Mr. Carmichael from Moscow . 
His stay there had been prolonged from week to week . 
On his first arrival there , he had not been able satisfactorily to trace the family he had gone in search of . 
When he felt at last sure that he had found them and had gone to their house , he had been told that they were absent on a journey . 
His efforts to reach them had been unavailing , so he had decided to remain in Moscow until their return . 
Mr. Carrisford sat in his reclining chair , and Janet sat on the floor beside him . 
He was very fond of Janet . 
Nora had found a footstool , and Donald was astride the tiger's head which ornamented the rug made of the animal's skin . 
It must be owned that he was riding it rather violently . 
Don't chirrup so loud , Donald , Janet said . 
When you come to cheer an ill person up you don't cheer him up at the top of your voice . 
Perhaps cheering up is too loud , Mr. Carrisford ? turning to the Indian gentleman . 
But he only patted her shoulder . 
No , it isn't , he answered . 
And it keeps me from thinking too much . 
I'm going to be quiet , Donald shouted . 
We'll all be as quiet as mice . 
Mice don't make a noise like that , said Janet . 
Donald made a bridle of his handkerchief and bounced up and down on the tiger's head . 
A whole lot of mice might , he said cheerfully . 
I don't believe fifty thousand mice would , said Janet , severely and we have to be as quiet as one mouse . 
Mr. Carrisford laughed and patted her shoulder again . 
Papa won't be very long now , she said . 
We like her so much , said Nora . 
We call her the little un fairy princess . 
Why ? the Indian gentleman inquired , because the fancies of the Large Family always made him forget things a little . 
It was Janet who answered . 
It is because , though she is not exactly a fairy , she will be so rich when she is found that she will be like a princess in a fairy tale . 
We called her the fairy princess at first , but it didn't quite suit . 
The Indian gentleman took hold of her hand quickly . 
No , he wasn't really , he said . 
I am sorry for the friend , Janet said I can't help it . 
He didn't mean to do it , and it would break his heart . 
I am sure it would break his heart . 
You are an understanding little woman , Janet , the Indian gentleman said , and he held her hand close . 
There's a cab ! exclaimed Janet . 
It's stopping before the door . 
It is papa ! They all ran to the windows to look out . 
Yes , it's papa , Donald proclaimed . 
But there is no little girl . 
All three of them incontinently fled from the room and tumbled into the hall . 
It was in this way they always welcomed their father . 
They were to be heard jumping up and down , clapping their hands , and being caught up and kissed . 
Mr. Carrisford made an effort to rise and sank back again . 
It is no use , he said . 
What a wreck I am ! Mr. Carmichael's voice approached the door . 
remove header No , children , he was saying you may come in after I have talked to Mr. Carrisford . 
Go and play with Ram Dass . 
Then the door opened and he came in . 
What news ? Mr. Carrisford asked . 
The child the Russian people adopted ? She is not the child we are looking for , was Mr. Carmichael's answer . 
She is much younger than Captain Crewe's little girl . 
Her name is Emily Carew . 
I have seen and talked to her . 
The Russians were able to give me every detail . 
How wearied and miserable the Indian gentleman looked ! His hand dropped from Mr. Carmichael's . 
Then the search has to be begun over again , he said . 
Mr. Carmichael took a seat . 
Somehow , he had gradually grown fond of this unhappy man . 
He was himself so well and happy , and so surrounded by cheerfulness and love , that desolation and broken health seemed pitifully unbearable things . 
If there had been the sound of just one gay little high pitched voice in the house , it would have been so much less forlorn . 
And that a man should be compelled to carry about in his breast the thought that he had seemed to wrong and desert a child was not a thing one could face . 
Come , come , he said in his cheery voice we'll find her yet . 
We must begin at once . 
No time must be lost , Mr. Carrisford fretted . 
Have you any new suggestion to make any whatsoever ? Mr. Carmichael felt rather restless , and he rose and began to pace the room with a thoughtful , though uncertain face . 
Well , perhaps , he said . 
I don't know what it may be worth . 
The fact is , an idea occurred to me as I was thinking the thing over in the train on the journey from Dover . 
What was it ? If she is alive , she is somewhere . 
We have searched the schools in Paris . 
Let us give up Paris and begin in London . 
That was my idea to search London . 
There are schools enough in London , said Mr. Carrisford . 
Then he slightly started , roused by a recollection . 
By the way , there is one next door . 
Then we will begin there . 
We cannot begin nearer than next door . 
There is a child there who interests me but she is not a pupil . 
And she is a little dark , forlorn creature , as unlike poor Crewe as a child could be . 
Perhaps the Magic was at work again at that very moment the beautiful Magic . 
It really seemed as if it might be so . 
She brings back the monkey who had again run away to her attic under the roof . 
I have asked that she remain . 
I t was my thought that it would please the sahib to see and speak with her . 
Who is she ? inquired Mr. Carmichael . 
God knows , Mr. Carrrisford answered . 
She is the child I spoke of . 
A little drudge at the school . 
He waved his hand to Ram Dass , and addressed him . 
Yes , I should like to see her . 
Go and bring her in . 
Then he turned to Mr. Carmichael . 
While you have been away , he explained , I have been desperate . 
The days were so dark and long . 
Ram Dass told me of this child's miseries , and together we invented a romantic plan to help her . 
I suppose it was a childish thing to do but it gave me something to plan and think of . 
Without the help of an agile , soft footed Oriental like Ram Dass , however , it could not have been done . 
Then Sara came into the room . 
She carried the monkey in her arms , and he evidently did not intend to part from her , if it could be helped . 
He was clinging to her and chattering , and the interesting excitement of finding herself in the Indian gentleman's room had brought a flush to Sara's cheeks . 
Your monkey ran away again , she said , in her pretty voice . 
He came to my garret window last night , and I took him in because it was so cold . 
I would have brought him back if it had not been so late . 
I knew you were ill and might not like to be disturbed . 
The Indian gentleman's hollow eyes dwelt on her with curious interest . 
That was very thoughtful of you , he said . 
Sara looked toward Ram Dass , who stood near the door . 
Shall I give him to the Lascar ? she asked . 
How do you know he is a Lascar ? said the Indian gentleman , smiling a little . 
Oh , I know Lascars , Sara said , handing over the reluctant monkey . 
I was born in India . 
The Indian gentleman sat upright so suddenly , and with such a change of expression , that she was for a moment quite startled . 
You were born in India , he exclaimed , were you ? Come here . 
And he held out his hand . 
Sara went to him and laid her hand in his , as he seemed to want to take it . 
She stood still , and her green gray eyes met his wonderingly . 
Something seemed to be the matter with him . 
You live next door ? he demanded . 
Yes I live at Miss Minchin's seminary . 
But you are not one of her pupils ? A strange little smile hovered about Sara's mouth . 
I don't think I know exactly WHAT I am , she replied . 
I sleep in the attic , next to the scullery maid , she said . 
I run errands for the cook I do anything she tells me and I teach the little ones their lessons . 
Question her , Carmichael , said Mr. Carrisford , sinking back as if he had lost his strength . 
The big , kind father of the Large Family knew how to question little girls . 
Sara realized how much practice he had had when he spoke to her in his nice , encouraging voice . 
What do you mean by At first , my child ? he inquired . 
When I was first taken there by my papa . 
Where is your papa ? He died , said Sara , very quietly . 
He lost all his money and there was none left for me . 
There was no one to take care of me or to pay Miss Minchin . 
Carmichael ! the Indian gentleman cried out loudly . 
Carmichael ! We must not frighten her , Mr. Carmichael said aside to him in a quick , low voice . 
And he added aloud to Sara , So you were sent up into the attic , and made into a little drudge . 
That was about it , wasn't it ? There was no one to take care of me , said Sara . 
There was no money I belong to nobody . 
How did your father lose his money ? the Indian gentleman broke in breathlessly . 
He did not lose it himself , Sara answered , wondering still more each moment . 
He had a friend he was very fond of he was very fond of him . 
It was his friend who took his money . 
He trusted his friend too much . 
The Indian gentleman's breath came more quickly . 
The friend might have MEANT to do no harm , he said . 
It might have happened through a mistake . 
Sara did not know how unrelenting her quiet young voice sounded as she answered . 
If she had known , she would surely have tried to soften it for the Indian gentleman's sake . 
The suffering was just as bad for my papa , she said . 
What was your father's name ? the Indian gentleman said . 
His name was Ralph Crewe , Sara answered , feeling startled . 
The haggard face contracted , and Ram Dass sprang to his master's side . 
Carmichael , the invalid gasped , it is the child the child ! For a moment Sara thought he was going to die . 
Ram Dass poured out drops from a bottle , and held them to his lips . 
Sara stood near , trembling a little . 
She looked in a bewildered way at Mr. Carmichael . 
What child am I ? she faltered . 
He was your father's friend , Mr. Carmichael answered her . 
We have been looking for you for two years . 
Sara put her hand up to her forehead , and her mouth trembled . 
She spoke as if she were in a dream . 
And I was at Miss Minchin's all the while , she half whispered . 
Just on the other side of the wall . 
I Tried Not to Be It was pretty , comfortable Mrs. Carmichael who explained everything . 
She was sent for at once , and came across the square to take Sara into her warm arms and make clear to her all that had happened . 
The excitement of the totally unexpected discovery had been temporarily almost overpowering to Mr. Carrisford in his weak condition . 
Upon my word , he said faintly to Mr. Carmichael , when it was suggested that the little girl should go into another room . 
I feel as if I do not want to lose sight of her . 
I will take care of her , Janet said , and mamma will come in a few minutes . 
And it was Janet who led her away . 
We're so glad you are found , she said . 
You don't know how glad we are that you are found . 
Donald stood with his hands in his pockets , and gazed at Sara with reflecting and self reproachful eyes . 
Then Mrs. Carmichael came in . 
She looked very much moved , and suddenly took Sara in her arms and kissed her . 
You look bewildered , poor child , she said . 
And it is not to be wondered at . 
Sara could only think of one thing . 
She felt as if she ought to be kissed very often because she had not been kissed for so long . 
He was not wicked , my dear , she answered . 
He did not really lose your papa's money . 
He only thought he had lost it and because he loved him so much his grief made him so ill that for a time he was not in his right mind . 
He almost died of brain fever , and long before he began to recover your poor papa was dead . 
And he did not know where to find me , murmured Sara . 
And I was so near . 
Somehow , she could not forget that she had been so near . 
He believed you were in school in France , Mrs. Carmichael explained . 
And he was continually misled by false clues . 
He has looked for you everywhere . 
And he told Ram Dass to climb into your attic window and try to make you comfortable . 
Sara gave a start of joy her whole look changed . 
Did Ram Dass bring the things ? she cried out . 
The library door opened and Mr. Carmichael appeared , calling Sara to him with a gesture . 
Mr. Carrisford is better already , he said . 
He wants you to come to him . 
When the Indian gentleman looked at her as she entered , he saw that her face was all alight . 
She went and stood before his chair , with her hands clasped together against her breast . 
It made her kneel down by him , just as she used to kneel by her father when they were the dearest friends and lovers in the world . 
The man will be himself again in three weeks , Mr. Carmichael said aside to his wife . 
Look at his face already . 
In fact , he did look changed . 
Here was the Little Missus , and he had new things to think of and plan for already . 
In the first place , there was Miss Minchin . 
She must be interviewed and told of the change which had taken place in the fortunes of her pupil . 
Sara was not to return to the seminary at all . 
The Indian gentleman was very determined upon that point . 
She must remain where she was , and Mr. Carmichael should go and see Miss Minchin himself . 
I am glad I need not go back , said Sara . 
She will be very angry . 
She does not like me though perhaps it is my fault , because I do not like her . 
But , oddly enough , Miss Minchin made it unnecessary for Mr. Carmichael to go to her , by actually coming in search of her pupil herself . 
She had wanted Sara for something , and on inquiry had heard an astonishing thing . 
What does she mean ! cried Miss Minchin to Miss Amelia . 
I don't know , I'm sure , sister , answered Miss Amelia . 
Unless she has made friends with him because he has lived in India . 
It would be just like her to thrust herself upon him and try to gain his sympathies in some such impertinent fashion , said Miss Minchin . 
She must have been in the house for two hours . 
I will not allow such presumption . 
I shall go and inquire into the matter , and apologize for her intrusion . 
Sara rose involuntarily , and became rather pale but Mr. Carrisford saw that she stood quietly , and showed none of the ordinary signs of child terror . 
Miss Minchin entered the room with a sternly dignified manner . 
She was correctly and well dressed , and rigidly polite . 
I am sorry to disturb Mr. Carrisford , she said but I have explanations to make . 
I am Miss Minchin , the proprietress of the Young Ladies' Seminary next door . 
The Indian gentleman looked at her for a moment in silent scrutiny . 
He was a man who had naturally a rather hot temper , and he did not wish it to get too much the better of him . 
So you are Miss Minchin ? he said . 
In that case , the Indian gentleman replied , you have arrived at the right time . 
My solicitor , Mr. Carmichael , was just on the point of going to see you . 
Mr. Carmichael bowed slightly , and Miiss Minchin looked from him to Mr. Carrisford in amazement . 
Your solicitor ! she said . 
I have come here as a matter of duty . 
I have just discovered that you have been intruded upon through the forwardness of one of my pupils a charity pupil . 
I came to explain that she intruded without my knowledge . 
Go home at once , she commanded indignantly . 
You shall be severely punished . 
The Indian gentleman drew Sara to his side and patted her hand . 
Miss Minchin felt rather as if she must be losing her senses . 
Not going ! she repeated . 
No , said Mr. Carrisford . 
She is not going home if you give your house that name . 
Her home for the future will be with me . 
Miss Minchin fell back in amazed indignation . 
With YOU ! With YOU sir ! What does this mean ? Kindly explain the matter , Carmichael , said the Indian gentleman and get it over as quickly as possible . 
And he made Sara sit down again , and held her hands in his which was another trick of her papa's . 
Mr. Carrisford , madam , he said , was an intimate friend of the late Captain Crewe . 
He was his partner in certain large investments . 
The fortune which Captain Crewe supposed he had lost has been recovered , and is now in Mr. Carrisford's hands . 
The fortune ! cried Miss Minchin and she really lost color as she uttered the exclamation . 
Sara's fortune ! It WILL be Sara's fortune , replied Mr. Carmichael , rather coldly . 
It is Sara's fortune now , in fact . 
Certain events have increased it enormously . 
The diamond mines have retrieved themselves . 
The diamond mines ! Miss Minchin gasped out . 
If this was true , nothing so horrible , she felt , had ever happened to her since she was born . 
Mr. Carrisford has been searching for her for nearly two years he has found her at last , and he will keep her . 
He found her under my care , she protested . 
I have done everything for her . 
But for me she should have starved in the streets . 
Here the Indian gentleman lost his temper . 
As to starving in the streets , he said , she might have starved more comfortably there than in your attic . 
Captain Crewe left her in my charge , Miss Minchin argued . 
She must return to it until she is of age . 
She can be a parlor boarder again . 
She must finish her education . 
The law will interfere in my behalf Come , come , Miss Minchin , Mr. Carmichael interposed , the law will do nothing of the sort . 
If Sara herself wishes to return to you , I dare say Mr. Carrisford might not refuse to allow it . 
But that rests with Sara . 
Then , said Miss Minchin , I appeal to Sara . 
I have not spoiled you , perhaps , she said awkwardly to the little girl but you know that your papa was pleased with your progress . 
And ahem I have always been fond of you . 
Sara's green gray eyes fixed themselves on her with the quiet , clear look Miss Minchin particularly disliked . 
Have YOU Miss Minchin ? she said . 
I did not know that . 
Miss Minchin reddened and drew herself up . 
You ought to have known it , said she but children , unfortunately , never know what is best for them . 
Amelia and I always said you were the cleverest child in the school . 
Will you not do your duty to your poor papa and come home with me ? Sara took a step toward her and stood still . 
She looked Miss Minchin steadily in the face . 
You know why I will not go home with you , Miss Minchin , she said you know quite well . 
A hot flush showed itself on Miss Minchin's hard , angry face . 
You will never see your companions again , she began . 
I will see that Ermengarde and Lottie are kept away Mr. Carmichael stopped her with polite firmness . 
Excuse me , he said she will see anyone she wishes to see . 
The parents of Miss Crewe's fellow pupils are not likely to refuse her invitations to visit her at her guardian's house . 
Mr. Carrisford will attend to that . 
It must be confessed that even Miss Minchin flinched . 
This was worse than the eccentric bachelor uncle who might have a peppery temper and be easily offended at the treatment of his niece . 
A woman of sordid mind could easily believe that most people would not refuse to allow their children to remain friends with a little heiress of diamond mines . 
And if Mr. Carrisford chose to tell certain of her patrons how unhappy Sara Crewe had been made , many unpleasant things might happen . 
You have not undertaken an easy charge , she said to the Indian gentleman , as she turned to leave the room you will discover that very soon . 
The child is neither truthful nor grateful . 
I suppose to Sara that you feel now that you are a princess again . 
Sara looked down and flushed a little , because she thought her pet fancy might not be easy for strangers even nice ones to understand at first . 
I TRIED not to be anything else , she answered in a low voice even when I was coldest and hungriest I tried not to be . 
Now it will not be necessary to try , said Miss Minchin , acidly , as Ram Dass salaamed her out of the room . 
She returned home and , going to her sitting room , sent at once for Miss Amelia . 
She sat closeted with her all the rest of the afternoon , and it must be admitted that poor Miss Amelia passed through more than one bad quarter of an hour . 
She shed a good many tears , and mopped her eyes a good deal . 
One of her unfortunate remarks almost caused her sister to snap her head entirely off , but it resulted in an unusual manner . 
I'm not as clever as you , sister , she said , and I am always afraid to say things to you for fear of making you angry . 
Perhaps if I were not so timid it would be better for the school and for both of us . 
I must say I've often thought it would have been better if you had been less severe on Sara Crewe , and had seen that she was decently dressed and more comfortable . 
I KNOW she was worked too hard for a child of her age , and I know she was only half fed How dare you say such a thing ! exclaimed Miss Minchin . 
I don't know how I dare , Miss Amelia answered , with a kind of reckless courage but now I've begun I may as well finish , whatever happens to me . 
The child was a clever child and a good child and she would have paid you for any kindness you had shown her . 
But you didn't show her any . 
The fact was , she was too clever for you , and you always disliked her for that reason . 
But Miss Amelia's disappointment had made her hysterical enough not to care what occurred next . 
She did ! She did ! she cried . 
She saw through us both . 
It was queer because , while it was an expression of delighted excitement , it was combined with such amazement as seemed to belong to a kind of shock just received . 
What IS the matter ? cried two or three voices at once . 
Is it anything to do with the row that has been going on ? said Lavinia , eagerly . 
There has been such a row in Miss Minchin's room , Miss Amelia has had something like hysterics and has had to go to bed . 
Ermengarde answered them slowly as if she were half stunned . 
I have just had this letter from Sara , she said , holding it out to let them see what a long letter it was . 
From Sara ! Every voice joined in that exclamation . 
Where is she ? almost shrieked Jessie . 
Next door , said Ermengarde , with the Indian gentleman . 
Ermengarde answered them slowly as if she were half plunged out into what , at the moment , seemed the most important and self explaining thing . 
There WERE diamond mines , she said stoutly there WERE ! Open mouths and open eyes confronted her . 
They were real , she hurried on . 
It was all a mistake about them . 
Something happened for a time , and Mr. Carrisford thought they were ruined Who is Mr. Carrisford ? shouted Jessie . 
And Captain Crewe thought so , too and he died and Mr. Carrisford had brain fever and ran away , and HE almost died . 
And he did not know where Sara was . 
And I am going to see her tomorrow afternoon . 
There ! Even Miss Minchin herself could scarcely have controlled the uproar after this and though she heard the noise , she did not try . 
She was not in the mood to face anything more than she was facing in her room , while Miss Amelia was weeping in bed . 
She knew that the news had penetrated the walls in some mysterious manner , and that every servant and every child would go to bed talking about it . 
Becky , who had heard it also , managed to creep up stairs earlier than usual . 
She wanted to get away from people and go and look at the little magic room once more . 
She did not know what would happen to it . 
It was not likely that it would be left to Miss Minchin . 
It would be taken away , and the attic would be bare and empty again . 
Glad as she was for Sara's sake , she went up the last flight of stairs with a lump in her throat and tears blurring her sight . 
The lamp was flushing the room , the fire was blazing , the supper was waiting and Ram Dass was standing smiling into her startled face . 
Missee sahib remembered , he said . 
She told the sahib all . 
She wished you to know the good fortune which has befallen her . 
Behold a letter on the tray . 
She did not wish that you should go to sleep unhappy . 
The sahib commands you to come to him tomorrow . 
You are to be the attendant of missee sahib . 
Tonight I take these things back over the roof . 
Anne Never had such joy reigned in the nursery of the Large Family . 
Never had they dreamed of such delights as resulted from an intimate acquaintance with the little girl who was not a beggar . 
The mere fact of her sufferings and adventures made her a priceless possession . 
Everybody wanted to be told over and over again the things which had happened to her . 
When one was sitting by a warm fire in a big , glowing room , it was quite delightful to hear how cold it could be in an attic . 
Of course the thing loved best was the story of the banquet and the dream which was true . 
Sara told it for the first time the day after she had been found . 
When she had finished she looked up at him and put her hand on his knee . 
That is my part , she said . 
Now won't you tell your part of it , Uncle Tom ? He had asked her to call him always Uncle Tom . 
I don't know your part yet , and it must be beautiful . 
He had described its cheerless look , and the bearing of the child , who seemed as if she was not of the class of those who were treated as drudges and servants . 
Bit by bit , Ram Dass had made discoveries concerning the wretchedness of her life . 
He had found out how easy a matter it was to climb across the few yards of roof to the skylight , and this fact had been the beginning of all that followed . 
Sahib , he had said one day , I could cross the slates and make the child a fire when she is out on some errand . 
When she returned , wet and cold , to find it blazing , she would think a magician had done it . 
He had shown a childlike pleasure and invention , and the preparations for the carrying out of the plan had filled many a day with interest which would otherwise have dragged wearily . 
When Sara had stirred ever so faintly , Ram Dass had closed the lantern slide and lain flat upon the floor . 
These and many other exciting things the children found out by asking a thousand questions . 
I am so glad , Sara said . 
I am so GLAD it was you who were my friend ! There never were such friends as these two became . 
Somehow , they seemed to suit each other in a wonderful way . 
The Indian gentleman had never had a companion he liked quite as much as he liked Sara . 
In a month's time he was , as Mr. Carmichael had prophesied he would be , a new man . 
He was always amused and interested , and he began to find an actual pleasure in the possession of the wealth he had imagined that he loathed the burden of . 
There were so many charming things to plan for Sara . 
There was a little joke between them that he was a magician , and it was one of his pleasures to invent things to surprise her . 
I am Boris , it read I serve the Princess Sara . 
There was nothing the Indian gentleman loved more than the recollection of the little princess in rags and tatters . 
The afternoons in which the Large Family , or Ermengarde and Lottie , gathered to rejoice together were very delightful . 
But the hours when Sara and the Indian gentleman sat alone and read or talked had a special charm of their own . 
During their passing many interesting things occurred . 
One evening , Mr. Carrisford , looking up from his book , noticed that his companion had not stirred for some time , but sat gazing into the fire . 
What are you supposing , Sara ? he asked . 
Sara looked up , with a bright color on her cheek . 
I WAS supposing , she said I was remembering that hungry day , and a child I saw . 
But there were a great many hungry days , said the Indian gentleman , with rather a sad tone in his voice . 
Which hungry day was it ? I forgot you didn't know , said Sara . 
It was the day the dream came true . 
Then she told him the story of the bun shop , and the fourpence she picked up out of the sloppy mud , and the child who was hungrier than herself . 
And I was supposing a kind of plan , she said , when she had finished . 
I was thinking I should like to do something . 
What was it ? said Mr. Carrisford , in a low tone . 
You may do anything you like to do , princess . 
Could I do that ? You shall do it tomorrow morning , said the Indian gentleman . 
Thank you , said Sara . 
You see , I know what it is to be hungry , and it is very hard when one cannot even PRETEND it away . 
Yes , yes , my dear , said the Indian gentleman . 
Yes , yes , it must be . 
Come and sit on this footstool near my knee , and only remember you are a princess . 
Yes , said Sara , smiling and I can give buns and bread to the populace . 
drew her small dark head down on his knee and stroked her hair . 
The next morning , Miss Minchin , in looking out of her window , saw the things she perhaps least enjoyed seeing . 
The little figure was a familiar one , and reminded Miss Minchin of days in the past . 
It was followed by another as familiar the sight of which she found very irritating . 
It was Becky , who , in the character of delighted attendant , always accompanied her young mistress to her carriage , carrying wraps and belongings . 
Already Becky had a pink , round face . 
When Sara entered the shop the woman turned and looked at her , and , leaving the buns , came and stood behind the counter . 
For a moment she looked at Sara very hard indeed , and then her good natured face lighted up . 
I'm sure that I remember you , miss , she said . 
And yet Yes , said Sara once you gave me six buns for fourpence , and And you gave five of 'em to a beggar child , the woman broke in on her . 
I couldn't make it out at first . 
She turned round to the Indian gentleman and spoke her next words to him . 
I beg your pardon , sir , but there's not many young people that notices a hungry face in that way and I've thought of it many a time . 
Excuse the liberty , miss , to Sara but you look rosier and well , better than you did that that I am better , thank you , said Sara . 
And I am much happier and I have come to ask you to do something for me . 
Me , miss ! exclaimed the bun woman , smiling cheerfully . 
Why , bless you ! Yes , miss . 
What can I do ? And then Sara , leaning on the counter , made her little proposal concerning the dreadful days and the hungry waifs and the buns . 
The woman watched her , and listened with an astonished face . 
Why , bless me ! she said again when she had heard it all it'll be a pleasure to me to do it . 
She looked so hungry , she said . 
She was even hungrier than I was . 
She was starving , said the woman . 
Many's the time she's told me of it since how she sat there in the wet , and felt as if a wolf was a tearing at her poor young insides . 
Oh , have you seen her since then ? exclaimed Sara . 
Do you know where she is ? Yes , I do , answered the woman , smiling more good naturedly than ever . 
She stepped to the door of the little back parlor and spoke and the next minute a girl came out and followed her behind the counter . 
And actually it was the beggar child , clean and neatly clothed , and looking as if she had not been hungry for a long time . 
She looked shy , but she had a nice face , now that she was no longer a savage , and the wild look had gone from her eyes . 
She knew Sara in an instant , and stood and looked at her as if she could never look enough . 
I am so glad , Sara said . 
And I have just thought of something . 
Perhaps Mrs. Brown will let you be the one to give the buns and bread to the children . 
Perhaps you would like to do it because you know what it is to be hungry , too . 
Yes , miss , said the girl . 
