LADY SUSAN by Jane Austen I LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MR . 
I have therefore resolved on placing her at one of the best private schools in town , where I shall have an opportunity of leaving her myself in my way to you . 
I am determined , you see , not to be denied admittance at Churchhill . 
It would indeed give me most painful sensations to know that it were not in your power to receive me . 
Your most obliged and affectionate sister , S. VERNON . 
II LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS . 
At present , nothing goes smoothly the females of the family are united against me . 
You foretold how it would be when I first came to Langford , and Mainwaring is so uncommonly pleasing that I was not without apprehensions for myself . 
Keep up his resentment , therefore , I charge you . 
We are now in a sad state no house was ever more altered the whole party are at war , and Mainwaring scarcely dares speak to me . 
It is time for me to be gone I have therefore determined on leaving them , and shall spend , I hope , a comfortable day with you in town within this week . 
I take London in my way to that insupportable spot , a country village for I am really going to Churchhill . 
Forgive me , my dear friend , it is my last resource . 
Were there another place in England open to me I would prefer it . 
Charles Vernon is my aversion and I am afraid of his wife . 
At Churchhill , however , I must remain till I have something better in view . 
My young lady accompanies me to town , where I shall deposit her under the care of Miss Summers , in Wigmore street , till she becomes a little more reasonable . 
She will made good connections there , as the girls are all of the best families . 
The price is immense , and much beyond what I can ever attempt to pay . 
Adieu , I will send you a line as soon as I arrive in town . 
Yours ever , S. VERNON . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill . 
You may guess , therefore , my dear madam , with what feelings I look forward to her arrival . 
Miss Vernon is to be placed at a school in London before her mother comes to us which I am glad of , for her sake and my own . 
Reginald has long wished , I know , to see the captivating Lady Susan , and we shall depend on his joining our party soon . 
I am glad to hear that my father continues so well and am , with best love , c . 
My dear Sister , I congratulate you and Mr. Vernon on being about to receive into your family the most accomplished coquette in England . 
, who is just come from Langford where he was a fortnight with her ladyship , and who is therefore well qualified to make the communication . 
I shall be with you very soon , and am ever , Your affectionate brother , R. DE COURCY . 
V LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS . 
I received your note , my dear Alicia , just before I left town , and rejoice to be assured that Mr. Johnson suspected nothing of your engagement the evening before . 
It is undoubtedly better to deceive him entirely , and since he will be stubborn he must be tricked . 
I arrived here in safety , and have no reason to complain of my reception from Mr. Vernon but I confess myself not equally satisfied with the behaviour of his lady . 
I wanted her to be delighted at seeing me . 
I was as amiable as possible on the occasion , but all in vain . 
She does not like me . 
I really have a regard for him , he is so easily imposed upon ! The house is a good one , the furniture fashionable , and everything announces plenty and elegance . 
We shall be as stupid as possible . 
Poor Mainwaring ! I need not tell you how much I miss him , how perpetually he is in my thoughts . 
I found a dismal letter from him on my arrival here , full of complaints of his wife and sister , and lamentations on the cruelty of his fate . 
I passed off the letter as his wife's , to the Vernons , and when I write to him it must be under cover to you . 
Ever yours , S. VERNON . 
I am sorry it is so , for what is this but deceit ? Unfortunately , one knows her too well . 
She has already almost persuaded me of her being warmly attached to her daughter , though I have been so long convinced to the contrary . 
If her manners have so great an influence on my resentful heart , you may judge how much more strongly they operate on Mr. Vernon's generous temper . 
Your friend Mr. Smith's story , however , cannot be quite correct , as she corresponds regularly with Mrs. Mainwaring . 
At any rate it must be exaggerated . 
It is scarcely possible that two men should be so grossly deceived by her at once . 
, CATHERINE VERNON VII LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS . 
She is a stupid girl , and has nothing to recommend her . 
I want her to play and sing with some portion of taste and a good deal of assurance , as she has my hand and arm and a tolerable voice . 
Not that I am an advocate for the prevailing fashion of acquiring a perfect knowledge of all languages , arts , and sciences . 
It is throwing time away to be mistress of French , Italian , and German music , singing , and drawing , c . 
, will gain a woman some applause , but will not add one lover to her list grace and manner , after all , are of the greatest importance . 
I do not mean , therefore , that Frederica's acquirements should be more than superficial , and I flatter myself that she will not remain long enough at school to understand anything thoroughly . 
I hope to see her the wife of Sir James within a twelvemonth . 
You know on what I ground my hope , and it is certainly a good foundation , for school must be very humiliating to a girl of Frederica's age . 
And , by the by , you had better not invite her any more on that account , as I wish her to find her situation as unpleasant as possible . 
I am sure of Sir James at any time , and could make him renew his application by a line . 
I shall trouble you meanwhile to prevent his forming any other attachment when he comes to town . 
Ask him to your house occasionally , and talk to him of Frederica , that he may not forget her . 
Upon the whole , I commend my own conduct in this affair extremely , and regard it as a very happy instance of circumspection and tenderness . 
You may well wonder how I contrive to pass my time here , and for the first week it was insufferably dull . 
Now , however , we begin to mend , our party is enlarged by Mrs. Vernon's brother , a handsome young man , who promises me some amusement . 
There is something about him which rather interests me , a sort of sauciness and familiarity which I shall teach him to correct . 
He is lively , and seems clever , and when I have inspired him with greater respect for me than his sister's kind offices have implanted , he may be an agreeable flirt . 
There is exquisite pleasure in subduing an insolent spirit , in making a person predetermined to dislike acknowledge one's superiority . 
This project will serve at least to amuse me , and prevent my feeling so acutely this dreadful separation from you and all whom I love . 
Yours ever , S. VERNON . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill . 
My dear Mother , You must not expect Reginald back again for some time . 
He desires me to tell you that the present open weather induces him to accept Mr. Vernon's invitation to prolong his stay in Sussex , that they may have some hunting together . 
He means to send for his horses immediately , and it is impossible to say when you may see him in Kent . 
Lady Susan has certainly contrived , in the space of a fortnight , to make my brother like her . 
JOHNSON TO LADY S. VERNON Edward Street . 
Sir Reginald is very infirm , and not likely to stand in your way long . 
I hear the young man well spoken of and though no one can really deserve you , my dearest Susan , Mr. De Courcy may be worth having . 
Mainwaring will storm of course , but you easily pacify him besides , the most scrupulous point of honour could not require you to wait for HIS emancipation . 
I have seen Sir James he came to town for a few days last week , and called several times in Edward Street . 
I talked to him about you and your daughter , and he is so far from having forgotten you , that I am sure he would marry either of you with pleasure . 
I gave him hopes of Frederica's relenting , and told him a great deal of her improvements . 
He is as silly as ever . 
X LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS . 
It is true that I am vain enough to believe it within my reach . 
I have made him sensible of my power , and can now enjoy the pleasure of triumphing over a mind prepared to dislike me , and prejudiced against all my past actions . 
Let her think and act as she chooses , however . 
I have never yet found that the advice of a sister could prevent a young man's being in love if he chose . 
We are advancing now to some kind of confidence , and in short are likely to be engaged in a sort of platonic friendship . 
Reginald has a good figure and is not unworthy the praise you have heard given him , but is still greatly inferior to our friend at Langford . 
Your account of Sir James is most satisfactory , and I mean to give Miss Frederica a hint of my intentions very soon . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill I really grow quite uneasy , my dearest mother , about Reginald , from witnessing the very rapid increase of Lady Susan's influence . 
It is impossible to see the intimacy between them so very soon established without some alarm , though I can hardly suppose that Lady Susan's plans extend to marriage . 
Her power over him must now be boundless , as she has entirely effaced all his former ill opinion , and persuaded him not merely to forget but to justify her conduct . 
He has told me so with a warmth of manner which spoke his regret at having believed the contrary himself . 
How sincerely do I grieve that she ever entered this house ! I always looked forward to her coming with uneasiness but very far was it from originating in anxiety for Reginald . 
If you can get him away it will be a good thing . 
XII SIR REGINALD DE COURCY TO HIS SON Parklands . 
Were you not blinded by a sort of fascination , it would be ridiculous in me to repeat the instances of great misconduct on her side so very generally known . 
My years and increasing infirmities make me very desirous of seeing you settled in the world . 
To the fortune of a wife , the goodness of my own will make me indifferent , but her family and character must be equally unexceptionable . 
My ability of distressing you during my life would be a species of revenge to which I could hardly stoop under any circumstances . 
I honestly tell you my sentiments and intentions I do not wish to work on your fears , but on your sense and affection . 
I should be glad to hear your reasons for disbelieving Mr. Smith's intelligence you had no doubt of its authenticity a month ago . 
, c , REGINALD DE COURCY XIII LADY DE COURCY TO MRS . 
I meant , moreover , to have reminded him of our being quite alone now , and very much in need of him to keep up our spirits these long winter evenings . 
He caught all your fears the moment he had read your letter , and I am sure he has not had the business out of his head since . 
His answer came this morning , which I shall enclose to you , as I think you will like to see it . 
I wish it was more satisfactory but it seems written with such a determination to think well of Lady Susan , that his assurances as to marriage , c . 
, do not set my heart at ease . 
I say all I can , however , to satisfy your father , and he is certainly less uneasy since Reginald's letter . 
Your affectionate mother , C. DE COURCY . 
DE COURCY TO SIR REGINALD Churchhill . 
My dear Sir , I have this moment received your letter , which has given me more astonishment than I ever felt before . 
I am to thank my sister , I suppose , for having represented me in such a light as to injure me in your opinion , and give you all this alarm . 
I know not why she should choose to make herself and her family uneasy by apprehending an event which no one but herself , I can affirm , would ever have thought possible . 
the conversation of a woman of high intellectual powers . 
As to Mrs. Mainwaring's jealousy it was totally his own invention , and his account of her attaching Miss Mainwaring's lover was scarcely better founded . 
You will , I am sure , my dear Sir , feel the truth of this , and will hereby learn to do justice to the character of a very injured woman . 
I am sorry to have incurred his displeasure , but can expect nothing better while he is so very eager in Lady Susan's justification . 
He is very severe against me indeed , and yet I hope I have not been hasty in my judgment of her . 
Poor woman ! though I have reasons enough for my dislike , I cannot help pitying her at present , as she is in real distress , and with too much cause . 
Frederica must be as much as sixteen , and ought to know better but from what her mother insinuates , I am afraid she is a perverse girl . 
She has been sadly neglected , however , and her mother ought to remember it . 
Mr. Vernon set off for London as soon as she had determined what should be done . 
Her ladyship is comforting herself meanwhile by strolling along the shrubbery with Reginald , calling forth all his tender feelings , I suppose , on this distressing occasion . 
She has been talking a great deal about it to me . 
All this sounds very reasonable . 
Reginald is so incensed against the poor silly girl . 
Surely it is not to Lady Susan's credit that he should be so bitter against her daughter his idea of her must be drawn from the mother's description . 
Well , whatever may be his fate , we have the comfort of knowing that we have done our utmost to save him . 
We must commit the event to a higher power . 
XVl LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
Never , my dearest Alicia , was I so provoked in my life as by a letter this morning from Miss Summers . 
That horrid girl of mine has been trying to run away . 
She meant , I suppose , to go to the Clarkes in Staffordshire , for she has no other acquaintances . 
But she shall be punished , she shall have him . 
I have sent Charles to town to make matters up if he can , for I do not by any means want her here . 
If Miss Summers will not keep her , you must find me out another school , unless we can get her married immediately . 
I trust I shall be able to make my story as good as hers . 
If I am vain of anything , it is of my eloquence . 
Reginald is never easy unless we are by ourselves , and when the weather is tolerable , we pace the shrubbery for hours together . 
I like him on the whole very well he is clever and has a good deal to say , but he is sometimes impertinent and troublesome . 
This is one sort of love , but I confess it does not particularly recommend itself to me . 
He has been teazing me to allow of his coming into this country , and lodging somewhere near INCOG . 
but I forbade everything of the kind . 
Those women are inexcusable who forget what is due to themselves , and the opinion of the world . 
Yours ever , S. VERNON . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill . 
My dear Mother , Mr. Vernon returned on Thursday night , bringing his niece with him . 
They came while we were at tea , and I never saw any creature look so frightened as Frederica when she entered the room . 
She hardly spoke to her , and on Frederica's bursting into tears as soon as we were seated , took her out of the room , and did not return for some time . 
When she did , her eyes looked very red and she was as much agitated as before . 
We saw no more of her daughter . 
This pathetic representation lasted the whole evening , and so ostentatious and artful a display has entirely convinced me that she did in fact feel nothing . 
I am more angry with her than ever since I have seen her daughter the poor girl looks so unhappy that my heart aches for her . 
Lady Susan is surely too severe , for Frederica does not seem to have the sort of temper to make severity necessary . 
She looks perfectly timid , dejected , and penitent . 
She is very pretty , though not so handsome as her mother , nor at all like her . 
Nothing satisfactory transpires as to her reason for running away . 
Her kind hearted uncle , you may be sure , was too fearful of distressing her to ask many questions as they travelled . 
I wish it had been possible for me to fetch her instead of him . 
I think I should have discovered the truth in the course of a thirty mile journey . 
There are plenty of books , but it is not every girl who has been running wild the first fifteen years of her life , that can or will read . 
A girl of Frederica's age must be childish indeed , if such things do not strike her . 
In short , when a person is always to deceive , it is impossible to be consistent . 
Lady Susan finds it necessary that Frederica should be to blame , and probably has sometimes judged it expedient to excuse her of ill nature and sometimes to lament her want of sense . 
Reginald is only repeating after her ladyship . 
XVIII FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME Churchhill . 
I cannot help fancying that she is growing partial to my brother . 
I so very often see her eyes fixed on his face with a remarkable expression of pensive admiration . 
He is certainly very handsome and yet more , there is an openness in his manner that must be highly prepossessing , and I am sure she feels it so . 
I think , my dear mother , you would not disapprove of her as a daughter . 
Though totally without accomplishments , she is by no means so ignorant as one might expect to find her , being fond of books and spending the chief of her time in reading . 
Her mother leaves her more to herself than she did , and I have her with me as much as possible , and have taken great pains to overcome her timidity . 
There cannot be a more gentle , affectionate heart or more obliging manners , when acting without restraint and her little cousins are all very fond of her . 
Your affectionate daughter , C. VERNON XIX LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
You will be eager , I know , to hear something further of Frederica , and perhaps may think me negligent for not writing before . 
She is actually falling in love with Reginald De Courcy ! To disobey her mother by refusing an unexceptionable offer is not enough her affections must also be given without her mother's approbation . 
I never saw a girl of her age bid fairer to be the sport of mankind . 
Artlessness will never do in love matters and that girl is born a simpleton who has it either by nature or affectation . 
I am not yet certain that Reginald sees what she is about , nor is it of much consequence . 
She is now an object of indifference to him , and she would be one of contempt were he to understand her emotions . 
Her beauty is much admired by the Vernons , but it has no effect on him . 
She is in high favour with her aunt altogether , because she is so little like myself , of course . 
But do not imagine that with all this lenity I have for a moment given up my plan of her marriage . 
No I am unalterably fixed on this point , though I have not yet quite decided on the manner of bringing it about . 
I should not chuse to have the business brought on here , and canvassed by the wise heads of Mr. and Mrs. Vernon and I cannot just now afford to go to town . 
Miss Frederica must therefore wait a little . 
Yours ever , S. VERNON . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill We have a very unexpected guest with us at present , my dear Mother he arrived yesterday . 
I instantly followed , and asked her what was the matter . 
Oh ! said she , he is come Sir James is come , and what shall I do ? This was no explanation I begged her to tell me what she meant . 
At that moment we were interrupted by a knock at the door it was Reginald , who came , by Lady Susan's direction , to call Frederica down . 
It is Mr. De Courcy ! said she , colouring violently . 
Mamma has sent for me I must go . 
We all three went down together and I saw my brother examining the terrified face of Frederica with surprize . 
Frederica looked so shy , so confused , when we entered the room , that I felt for her exceedingly . 
Lady Susan behaved with great attention to her visitor and yet I thought I could perceive that she had no particular pleasure in seeing him . 
He now and then addressed Frederica , but more frequently her mother . 
The poor girl sat all this time without opening her lips her eyes cast down , and her colour varying every instant while Reginald observed all that passed in perfect silence . 
At length Lady Susan , weary , I believe , of her situation , proposed walking and we left the two gentlemen together , to put on our pelisses . 
As we went upstairs Lady Susan begged permission to attend me for a few moments in my dressing room , as she was anxious to speak with me in private . 
He is so extremely attached to my daughter that he could not exist longer without seeing her . 
Catherine will be amply provided for , and not , like my Frederica , indebted to a fortunate establishment for the comforts of life . 
She concluded by demanding my congratulations . 
God bless you , for your goodness to me and my girl , and continue to you all your present happiness . 
What can one say of such a woman , my dear mother ? Such earnestness such solemnity of expression ! and yet I cannot help suspecting the truth of everything she says . 
As for Reginald , I believe he does not know what to make of the matter . 
Even Lady Susan seemed a little disconcerted by this forwardness in her heart I am persuaded she sincerely wished him gone . 
But something must be done for this poor girl , if her feelings are such as both I and her uncle believe them to be . 
She must not be sacrificed to policy or ambition , and she must not be left to suffer from the dread of it . 
The girl whose heart can distinguish Reginald De Courcy , deserves , however he may slight her , a better fate than to be Sir James Martin's wife . 
As soon as I can get her alone , I will discover the real truth but she seems to wish to avoid me . 
I hope this does not proceed from anything wrong , and that I shall not find out I have thought too well of her . 
Her behaviour to Sir James certainly speaks the greatest consciousness and embarrassment , but I see nothing in it more like encouragement . 
Adieu , my dear mother . 
But if you do not take my part and persuade her to break it off , I shall be half distracted , for I cannot bear him . 
No human being but YOU could have any chance of prevailing with her . 
I would rather work for my bread than marry him . 
I do not know how to apologize enough for this letter I know it is taking so great a liberty . 
I am aware how dreadfully angry it will make mamma , but I remember the risk . 
I am , Sir , your most humble servant , F. S. V. XXII LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
This is insufferable ! My dearest friend , I was never so enraged before , and must relieve myself by writing to you , who I know will enter into all my feelings . 
Who should come on Tuesday but Sir James Martin ! Guess my astonishment , and vexation for , as you well know , I never wished him to be seen at Churchhill . 
What a pity that you should not have known his intentions ! Not content with coming , he actually invited himself to remain here a few days . 
I made a point also of Frederica's behaving civilly to Sir James , and gave her to understand that I was absolutely determined on her marrying him . 
She said something of her misery , but that was all . 
Contemptible as a regard founded only on compassion must make them both in my eyes , I felt by no means assured that such might not be the consequence . 
Everything , however , was going on calmly and quietly and , though I counted the hours of Sir James's stay , my mind was entirely satisfied with the posture of affairs . 
Guess , then , what I must feel at the sudden disturbance of all my schemes and that , too , from a quarter where I had least reason to expect it . 
I have not a doubt but that the girl took this opportunity of making downright love to him . 
I am convinced of it by the manner in which he spoke of her . 
Much good may such love do him ! I shall ever despise the man who can be gratified by the passion which he never wished to inspire , nor solicited the avowal of . 
I shall always detest them both . 
He endeavoured , long endeavoured , to soften my resentment but that woman is a fool indeed who , while insulted by accusation , can be worked on by compliments . 
At length he left me , as deeply provoked as myself and he showed his anger more . 
He is now shut up in his apartment , whither I heard him go on leaving mine . 
How unpleasant , one would think , must be his reflections ! but some people's feelings are incomprehensible . 
I have not yet tranquillised myself enough to see Frederica . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill . 
Let me congratulate you , my dearest Mother ! The affair which has given us so much anxiety is drawing to a happy conclusion . 
I was sitting about half an hour ago with Sir James in the breakfast parlour , when my brother called me out of the room . 
I am going to send James forward with my hunters immediately if you have any letter , therefore , he can take it . 
He wants to marry her her mother promotes the match , but she cannot endure the idea of it . 
Be assured that I speak from the fullest conviction of the truth of what I say I Know that Frederica is made wretched by Sir James's continuing here . 
She is a sweet girl , and deserves a better fate . 
She is an amiable girl , and has a very superior mind to what we have given her credit for . 
He then left me , and ran upstairs . 
I would not try to stop him , for I know what his feelings must be . 
In about ten minutes after my return to the parlour Lady Susan entered the room . 
I concluded , of course , that she and Reginald had been quarrelling and looked with anxious curiosity for a confirmation of my belief in her face . 
He told us nothing of all this last night , said she , laughing , or even this morning at breakfast but perhaps he did not know it himself . 
Young men are often hasty in their resolutions , and not more sudden in forming than unsteady in keeping them . 
I should not be surprised if he were to change his mind at last , and not go . 
She soon afterwards left the room . 
I trust , however , my dear mother , that we have no reason to fear an alteration of his present plan things have gone too far . 
They must have quarrelled , and about Frederica , too . 
We have much to do , but it shall be done . 
I am all impatience to hear how this astonishing change was effected . 
I finish as I began , with the warmest congratulations . 
XXIV FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME Churchhill . 
I never can sufficiently regret that I wrote to you at all . 
Yet who could have foreseen what has happened ? My dear mother , every hope which made me so happy only two hours ago has vanished . 
The quarrel between Lady Susan and Reginald is made up , and we are all as we were before . 
One point only is gained . 
Sir James Martin is dismissed . 
I met her on the stairs , and saw that she was crying . 
My dear aunt , said she , he is going Mr. De Courcy is going , and it is all my fault . 
I am afraid you will be very angry with me . 
but indeed I had no idea it would end so . 
My love , I replied , do not think it necessary to apologize to me on that account . 
He was so good as to take it immediately . 
I dared not look at him , and ran away directly . 
I was in such a fright I could hardly breathe . 
My dear aunt , you do not know how miserable I have been . 
Frederica said I , you ought to have told me all your distresses . 
You would have found in me a friend always ready to assist you . 
Mamma will never forgive me , and I shall be worse off than ever . 
No , you shall not , I replied in such a point as this your mother's prohibition ought not to have prevented your speaking to me on the subject . 
She has no right to make you unhappy , and she shall NOT do it . 
Your applying , however , to Reginald can be productive only of good to all parties . 
I believe it is best as it is . 
Depend upon it that you shall not be made unhappy any longer . 
At that moment how great was my amonishment at seeing Reginald come out of Lady Susan's dressing room . 
My heart misgave me instantly . 
His confusion at seeing me was very evident . 
Are you going ? I said you will find Mr. Vernon in his own room . 
No , Catherine , he replied , I am not going . 
Will you let me speak to you a moment ? We went into my room . 
I find , he continued , his confusion increasing as he spoke , that I have been acting with my usual foolish impetuosity . 
I have entirely misunderstood Lady Susan , and was on the point of leaving the house under a false impression of her conduct . 
There has been some very great mistake we have been all mistaken , I fancy . 
Frederica does not know her mother . 
Lady Susan means nothing but her good , but she will not make a friend of her . 
Lady Susan does not always know , therefore , what will make her daughter happy . 
Besides , I could have no right to interfere . 
Miss Vernon was mistaken in applying to me . 
In short , Catherine , everything has gone wrong , but it is now all happily settled . 
Lady Susan , I believe , wishes to speak to you about it , if you are at leisure . 
Certainly , I replied , deeply sighing at the recital of so lame a story . 
I made no comments , however , for words would have been vain . 
Reginald was glad to get away , and I went to Lady Susan , curious , indeed , to hear her account of it . 
If you remember , I left the room almost immediately . 
I was resolved to lose no time in clearing up those mistakes as far as I could . 
The case was this Frederica had set herself violently against marrying Sir James . 
And can your ladyship wonder that she should ? cried I with some warmth Frederica has an excellent understanding , and Sir James has none . 
I am at least very far from regretting it , my dear sister , said she on the contrary , I am grateful for so favourable a sign of my daughter's sense . 
Here she pretended to cry I was out of patience with her . 
When my own resolution was taken I could nor wish for the interference , however friendly , of another person . 
I was mistaken , it is true , but I believed myself right . 
Frederica makes me very unhappy ! Her applying to Mr. De Courcy hurt me particularly . 
His resolution of leaving Churchhill is consistent with his general eagerness . 
I reproach myself for having even , though innocently , made her unhappy on that score . 
I could have said , Not much , indeed ! but I left her almost in silence . 
It was the greatest stretch of forbearance I could practise . 
I could not have stopped myself had I begun . 
Her assurance ! her deceit ! but I will not allow myself to dwell on them they will strike you sufficiently . 
My heart sickens within me . 
As soon as I was tolerably composed I returned to the parlour . 
Sir James's carriage was at the door , and he , merry as usual , soon afterwards took his leave . 
I see how closely she observes him and Lady Susan , poor girl ! I have now no hope for her . 
There is not a chance of her affection being returned . 
He thinks very differently of her from what he used to do he does her some justice , but his reconciliation with her mother precludes every dearer hope . 
Prepare , my dear mother , for the worst ! The probability of their marrying is surely heightened ! He is more securely hers than ever . 
When that wretched event takes place , Frederica must belong wholly to us . 
XXV LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
He was actually on the point of leaving Churchhill ! I had scarcely concluded my last , when Wilson brought me word of it . 
I found , therefore , that something must be done for I did not choose to leave my character at the mercy of a man whose passions are so violent and so revengeful . 
It would have been trifling with my reputation to allow of his departing with such an impression in my disfavour in this light , condescension was necessary . 
I sent Wilson to say that I desired to speak with him before he went he came immediately . 
The angry emotions which had marked every feature when we last parted were partially subdued . 
He seemed astonished at the summons , and looked as if half wishing and half fearing to be softened by what I might say . 
If my countenance expressed what I aimed at , it was composed and dignified and yet , with a degree of pensiveness which might convince him that I was not quite happy . 
My remaining here cannot give that pleasure to Mr. and Mrs. Vernon which your society must and my visit has already perhaps been too long . 
Where I go is of no consequence to anyone of very little to myself but you are of importance to all your connections . 
Here I concluded , and I hope you will be satisfied with my speech . 
Its effect on Reginald justifies some portion of vanity , for it was no less favourable than instantaneous . 
Oh , how delightful it was to watch the variations of his countenance while I spoke ! to see the struggle between returning tenderness and the remains of displeasure . 
But these measures are each too violent to be adopted without some deliberation at present my thoughts are fluctuating between various schemes . 
To effect all this I have various plans . 
I believe I owe it to my character to complete the match between my daughter and Sir James after having so long intended it . 
Let me know your opinion on this point . 
Her idle love for Reginald , too ! It is surely my duty to discourage such romantic nonsense . 
All things considered , therefore , it seems incumbent on me to take her to town and marry her immediately to Sir James . 
Send me your opinion on all these matters , my dear Alicia , and let me know whether you can get lodgings to suit me within a short distance of you . 
Your most attached S. VERNON . 
JOHNSON TO LADY SUSAN Edward Street . 
I am gratified by your reference , and this is my advice that you come to town yourself , without loss of time , but that you leave Frederica behind . 
You should think more of yourself and less of your daughter . 
She is not of a disposition to do you credit in the world , and seems precisely in her proper place at Churchhill , with the Vernons . 
But you are fitted for society , and it is shameful to have you exiled from it . 
I have another reason for urging this Mainwaring came to town last week , and has contrived , in spite of Mr. Johnson , to make opportunities of seeing me . 
He is absolutely miserable about you , and jealous to such a degree of De Courcy that it would be highly unadvisable for them to meet at present . 
During his absence we shall be able to chuse our own society , and to have true enjoyment . 
your not sleeping in the house . 
Poor Mainwaring gives me such histories of his wife's jealousy . 
Her folly in forming the connection was so great that , though Mr. Johnson was her guardian , and I do not in general share HIS feelings , I never can forgive her . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill . 
This letter , my dear Mother , will be brought you by Reginald . 
His long visit is about to be concluded at last , but I fear the separation takes place too late to do us any good . 
She is going to London to see her particular friend , Mrs. Johnson . 
It was at first her intention that Frederica should accompany her , for the benefit of masters , but we overruled her there . 
, or have been left in total solitude , and I can hardly tell which would have been worse for her . 
If she is with her mother , moreover , she must , alas ! in all probability be with Reginald , and that would be the greatest evil of all . 
I should not have a doubt of it were she slighted for any other woman in the world than her own mother . 
How long Lady Susan will be in town , or whether she returns here again , I know not . 
I could not be cordial in my invitation , but if she chuses to come no want of cordiality on my part will keep her away . 
I have done with lamentation I look upon the event as so far decided that I resign myself to it in despair . 
If he leaves you soon for London everything will be concluded . 
JOHNSON TO LADY SUSAN Edward Street . 
My dearest Friend , I write in the greatest distress the most unfortunate event has just taken place . 
Mr. Johnson has hit on the most effectual manner of plaguing us all . 
I am pleased to find that my letter had so much effect on you , and that De Courcy is certainly your own . 
Let me hear from you as soon as you arrive , and in particular tell me what you mean to do with Mainwaring . 
It is impossible to say when I shall be able to come to you my confinement must be great . 
It is such an abominable trick to be ill here instead of at Bath that I can scarcely command myself at all . 
XXIX LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS . 
My dear Alicia , There needed not this last fit of the gout to make me detest Mr. Johnson , but now the extent of my aversion is not to be estimated . 
I arrived last night about five , had scarcely swallowed my dinner when Mainwaring made his appearance . 
I shall probably put off his arrival under some pretence or other . 
He must not come till Mainwaring is gone . 
I have not given Mainwaring any hint of my intention , or allowed him to consider my acquaintance with Reginald as more than the commonest flirtation , and he is tolerably appeased . 
Adieu , till we meet I am enchanted with my lodgings . 
Yours ever , S. VERNON . 
XXX LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MR . 
DE COURCY Upper Seymour Street . 
Do not think me unkind for such an exercise of my power , nor accuse me of instability without first hearing my reasons . 
We have been hurried on by our feelings to a degree of precipitation which ill accords with the claims of our friends or the opinion of the world . 
It will surely , therefore , be advisable to delay our union to delay it till appearances are more promising till affairs have taken a more favourable turn . 
To assist us In such a resolution I feel that absence will be necessary . 
Again , therefore , I say that we ought not , we must not , yet meet . 
Let me hear from you soon very soon . 
Tell me that you submit to my arguments , and do not reproach me for using such . 
I cannot bear reproaches my spirits are not so high as to need being repressed . 
I must endeavour to seek amusement , and fortunately many of my friends are in town amongst them the Mainwarings you know how sincerely I regard both husband and wife . 
I am , very faithfully yours , S. VERNON XXXI LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
My dear Friend , That tormenting creature , Reginald , is here . 
My letter , which was intended to keep him longer in the country , has hastened him to town . 
Much as I wish him away , however , I cannot help being pleased with such a proof of attachment . 
He is devoted to me , heart and soul . 
He will carry this note himself , which is to serve as an introduction to you , with whom he longs to be acquainted . 
Allow him to spend the evening with you , that I may be in no danger of his returning here . 
Keep him , therefore , I entreat you , in Edward Street . 
You will not find him a heavy companion , and I allow you to flirt with him as much as you like . 
I would urge them more myself , but that I am impatient to be rid of him , as Mainwaring comes within half an hour . 
Adieu ! S VERNON XXXII MRS . 
JOHNSON TO LADY SUSAN Edward Street . 
My dear Creature , I am in agonies , and know not what to do . 
Mr. De Courcy arrived just when he should not . 
She arrived yesterday in pursuit of her husband , but perhaps you know this already from himself . 
Do not accuse me indeed , it was impossible to prevent it . 
Mr. Johnson has for some time suspected De Courcy of intending to marry you , and would speak with him alone as soon as he knew him to be in the house . 
That detestable Mrs. Mainwaring , who , for your comfort , has fretted herself thinner and uglier than ever , is still here , and they have been all closeted together . 
What can be done ? At any rate , I hope he will plague his wife more than ever . 
With anxious wishes , Yours faithfully , ALICIA . 
XXXIII LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
This eclaircissement is rather provoking . 
How unlucky that you should have been from home ! I thought myself sure of you at seven ! I am undismayed however . 
Do not torment yourself with fears on my account depend on it , I can make my story good with Reginald . 
Mainwaring is just gone he brought me the news of his wife's arrival . 
Silly woman , what does she expect by such manoeuvres . 
? Yet I wish she had stayed quietly at Langford . 
Reginald will be a little enraged at first , but by to morrow's dinner , everything will be well again . 
Adieu ! S. V. XXXIV MR . 
DE COURCY TO LADY SUSAN Hotel I write only to bid you farewell , the spell is removed I see you as you are . 
You cannot doubt to what I allude . 
Langford ! Langford ! that word will be sufficient . 
I received my information in Mr. Johnson's house , from Mrs. Mainwaring herself . 
XXXV LADY SUSAN TO MR . 
DE COURCY Upper Seymour Street . 
I will not attempt to describe my astonishment in reading the note this moment received from you . 
I am bewildered in my endeavours to form some rational conjecture of what Mrs. Mainwaring can have told you to occasion so extraordinary a change in your sentiments . 
Come to me immediately , and explain what is at present absolutely incomprehensible . 
Believe me the single word of Langford is not of such potent intelligence as to supersede the necessity of more . 
I shall count every minute till your arrival . 
DE COURCY TO LADY SUSAN Hotel . 
Far from me be all complaint , every sigh of regret . 
My understanding is at length restored , and teaches no less to abhor the artifices which had subdued me than to despise myself for the weakness on which their strength was founded . 
XXXVII LADY SUSAN TO MR . 
DE COURCY Upper Seymour Street . 
I am satisfied , and will trouble you no more when these few lines are dismissed . 
Your restoration to peace will , I doubt not , speedily follow this act of filial obedience , and I flatter myself with the hope of surviving my share in this disappointment . 
JOHNSON TO LADY SUSAN VERNON Edward Street I am grieved , though I cannot be astonished at your rupture with Mr. De Courcy he has just informed Mr. Johnson of it by letter . 
He leaves London , he says , to day . 
Be assured that I partake in all your feelings , and do not be angry if I say that our intercourse , even by letter , must soon be given up . 
Miss Mainwaring is just come to town to be with her aunt , and they say that she declares she will have Sir James Martin before she leaves London again . 
If I were you , I would certainly get him myself . 
Mr. Johnson and he are the greatest friends in the world . 
Adieu , my dearest Susan , I wish matters did not go so perversely . 
That unlucky visit to Langford ! but I dare say you did all for the best , and there is no defying destiny . 
XXXIX LADY SUSAN TO MRS . 
My dear Alicia , I yield to the necessity which parts us . 
Under circumstances you could not act otherwise . 
Our friendship cannot be impaired by it , and in happier times , when your situation is as independent as mine , it will unite us again in the same intimacy as ever . 
Your husband I abhor , Reginald I despise , and I am secure of never seeing either again . 
Have I not reason to rejoice ? Mainwaring is more devoted to me than ever and were we at liberty , I doubt if I could resist even matrimony offered by HIM . 
This event , if his wife live with you , it may be in your power to hasten . 
The violence of her feelings , which must wear her out , may be easily kept in irritation . 
I rely on your friendship for this . 
I am now satisfied that I never could have brought myself to marry Reginald , and am equally determined that Frederica never shall . 
To morrow , I shall fetch her from Churchhill , and let Maria Mainwaring tremble for the consequence . 
Frederica shall be Sir James's wife before she quits my house , and she may whimper , and the Vernons may storm , I regard them not . 
I have given up too much , have been too easily worked on , but Frederica shall now feel the difference . 
Adieu , dearest of friends may the next gouty attack be more favourable ! and may you always regard me as unalterably yours , S. VERNON XL LADY DE COURCY TO MRS . 
Reginald is returned , not to ask our consent to his marrying Lady Susan , but to tell us they are parted for ever . 
This is the most joyful hour he has ever given us since the day of his birth . 
Nothing is wanting but to have you here , and it is our particular wish and entreaty that you would come to us as soon as you can . 
It has been a sad , heavy winter hitherto , without Reginald , and seeing nobody from Churchhill . 
I never found the season so dreary before but this happy meeting will make us young again . 
we will try to rob him of his heart once more , and I am full of hopes of seeing their hands joined at no great distance . 
Your affectionate mother , C. DE COURCY XLI MRS . 
VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY Churchhill . 
She stayed nearly two hours , was as affectionate and agreeable as ever , and not a syllable , not a hint was dropped , of any disagreement or coolness between them . 
Your kind invitation is accepted by us with pleasure , and on Thursday next we and our little ones will be with you . 
Her manner , to be sure , was very kind and proper , and Mr. Vernon believes that Frederica will now be treated with affection . 
I wish I could think so too . 
The poor girl's heart was almost broke at taking leave of us . 
I charged her to write to me very often , and to remember that if she were in any distress we should be always her friends . 
I wish there were a better prospect than now appears of the match which the conclusion of your letter declares your expectations of . 
At present , it is not very likely Yours ever , c . 
No unkindness , however , on the part of Lady Susan appeared . 
Mrs. Vernon , surprized and incredulous , knew not what to suspect , and , without any change in her own views , only feared greater difficulty in accomplishing them . 
Mrs. Vernon , encouraging the doubt , directly proposed her niece's returning with them into the country . 
Mrs. Vernon persevered , however , in the offer of it , and though Lady Susan continued to resist , her resistance in the course of a few days seemed somewhat less formidable . 
The lucky alarm of an influenza decided what might not have been decided quite so soon . 
Three months might have done it in general , but Reginald's feelings were no less lasting than lively . 
Sir James may seem to have drawn a harder lot than mere folly merited I leave him , therefore , to all the pity that anybody can give him . 
