THE LIGHT PRINCESS GEORGE MACDONALD . 
What ! No Children ? Once upon a time , so long ago that I have quite forgotten the date , there lived a king and queen who had no children . 
So he made up his mind to be cross with his wife about it . 
But she bore it all like a good patient queen as she was . 
Then the king grew very cross indeed . 
But the queen pretended to take it all as a joke , and a very good one too . 
Why don't you have any daughters , at least ? said he . 
I don't say sons that might be too much to expect . 
I am sure , dear king , I am very sorry , said the queen . 
So you ought to be , retorted the king you are not going to make a virtue of that , surely . 
But he was not an ill tempered king , and in any matter of less moment would have let the queen have her own way with all his heart . 
This , however , was an affair of state . 
You must have patience with a lady , you know , dear king , said she . 
She was , indeed , a very nice queen , and heartily sorry that she could not oblige the king immediately . 
Won't I , Just ? The king tried to have patience , but he succeeded very badly . 
It was more than he deserved , therefore , when , at last , the queen gave him a daughter as lovely a little princess as ever cried . 
The day drew near when the infant must be christened . 
The king wrote all the invitations with his own hand . 
Of course somebody was forgotten . 
Now it does not generally matter if somebody is forgotten , only you must mind who . 
Unfortunately , the king forgot without intending to forget and so the chance fell upon the Princess Makemnoit , which was awkward . 
For the princess was the king's own sister and he ought not to have forgotten her . 
But poor relations don't do anything to keep you in mind of them . 
Why don't they ? The king could not see into the garret she lived in , could he ? She was a sour , spiteful creature . 
The wrinkles of contempt crossed the wrinkles of peevishness , and made her face as full of wrinkles as a pat of butter . 
If ever a king could be justified in forgetting anybody , this king was justified in forgetting his sister , even at a christening . 
She looked very odd , too . 
Her forehead was as large as all the rest of her face , and projected over it like a precipice . 
When she was angry , her little eyes flashed blue . 
When she hated anybody , they shone yellow and green . 
But what made it highly imprudent in the king to forget her was that she was awfully clever . 
But she clasped it tight and said nothing . 
Her atrocious aunt had deprived the child of all her gravity . 
If you ask me how this was effected , I answer , In the easiest way in the world . 
She had only to destroy gravitation . 
For the princess was a philosopher , and knew all the ins and outs of the laws of gravitation as well as the ins and outs of her boot lace . 
But we have more to do with what followed than with how it was done . 
The first awkwardness that resulted from this unhappy privation was , that the moment the nurse began to float the baby up and down , she flew from her arms towards the ceiling . 
Happily , the resistance of the air brought her ascending career to a close within a foot of it . 
There she remained , horizontal as when she left her nurse's arms , kicking and laughing amazingly . 
The nurse in terror flew to the bell , and begged the footman , who answered it , to bring up the house steps directly . 
When the strange fact came to be known , there was a terrible commotion in the palace . 
The occasion of its discovery by the king was naturally a repetition of the nurse's experience . 
The king stood staring up in speechless amazement , and trembled so that his beard shook like grass in the wind . 
I am sure she is ours , answered she . 
But we ought to have taken better care of her at the christening . 
People who were never invited ought not to have been present . 
Oh , ho ! said the king , tapping his forehead with his forefinger , I have it all . 
Don't you see it , queen ? Princess Makemnoit has bewitched her . 
That's just what I say , answered the queen . 
I beg your pardon , my love I did not hear you . 
John ! bring the steps I get on my throne with . 
For he was a little king with a great throne , like many other kings . 
The throne steps were brought , and set upon the dining table , and John got upon the top of them . 
But he could not reach the little princess , who lay like a baby laughter cloud in the air , exploding continuously . 
Take the tongs , John , said his Majesty and getting up on the table , he handed them to him . 
John could reach the baby now , and the little princess was handed down by the tongs . 
One of the windows was open , for it was noon , and the day was so sultry that the little girl was wrapped in nothing less ethereal than slumber itself . 
The queen came into the room , and not observing that the baby was on the bed , opened another window . 
The queen went down stairs , quite ignorant of the loss she had herself occasioned . 
When the nurse returned , she supposed that her Majesty had carried her off , and , dreading a scolding , delayed making inquiry about her . 
But hearing nothing , she grew uneasy , and went at length to the queen's boudoir , where she found her Majesty . 
Please , your Majesty , shall I take the baby ? said she . 
Where is she ? asked the queen . 
I know it was wrong . 
What do you mean ? said the queen , looking grave . 
Oh ! don't frighten me , your Majesty ! exclaimed the nurse , clasping her hands . 
The queen saw that something was amiss , and fell down in a faint . 
The nurse rushed about the palace , screaming , My baby ! my baby ! Every one ran to the queen's room . 
But the queen could give no orders . 
Startled by the noise the servants made , she woke , and , furious with glee , scattered the rose leaves in all directions , like a shower of spray in the sunset . 
She was watched more carefully after this , no doubt yet it would be endless to relate all the odd incidents resulting from this peculiarity of the young princess . 
But there never was a baby in a house , not to say a palace , that kept the household in such constant good humour , at least below stairs . 
If it was not easy for her nurses to hold her , at least she made neither their arms nor their hearts ache . 
And she was so nice to play at ball with ! There was positively no danger of letting her fall . 
They might throw her down , or knock her down , or push her down , but couldn't let her down . 
It is true , they might let her fly into the fire or the coal hole , or through the window but none of these accidents had happened as yet . 
If you heard peals of laughter resounding from some unknown region , you might be sure enough of the cause . 
Going down into the kitchen , or the room , you would find Jane and Thomas , and Robert and Susan , all and sum , playing at ball with the little princess . 
She was the ball herself , and did not enjoy it the less for that . 
Away she went , flying from one to another , screeching with laughter . 
And the servants loved the ball itself better even than the game . 
But they had to take some care how they threw her , for if she received an upward direction , she would never come down again without being fetched . 
What Is to Be Done ? But above stairs it was different . 
One day , for instance , after breakfast , the king went into his counting house , and counted out his money . 
The operation gave him no pleasure . 
The queen was in the parlour , eating bread and honey . 
But at the second mouthful she burst out crying , and could not swallow it . 
The king heard her sobbing . 
What is all this about ? exclaimed he . 
What are you crying for , queen ? I can't eat it , said the queen , looking ruefully at the honey pot . 
No wonder ! retorted the king . 
You've just eaten your breakfast two turkey eggs , and three anchovies . 
Oh , that's not it ! sobbed her Majesty . 
It's my child , my child ! Well , what's the matter with your child ? She's neither up the chimney nor down the draw well . 
It is a bad thing to be light headed , answered the queen , looking with prophetic soul far into the future . 
'Tis a good thing to be light handed , said the king . 
'Tis a bad thing to be light fingered , answered the queen . 
'Tis a good thing to be light footed , said the king . 
'Tis a bad thing began the queen but the king interrupted her . 
But it is a bad thing altogether to be light minded , retorted the queen , who was beginning to lose her temper . 
This last answer quite discomfited his Majesty , who turned on his heel , and betook himself to his counting house again . 
But he was not half way towards it , when the voice of his queen overtook him . 
And it's a bad thing to be light haired , screamed she , determined to have more last words , now that her spirit was roused . 
The queen's hair was black as night and the king's had been , and his daughter's was , golden as morning . 
But it was not this reflection on his hair that arrested him it was the double use of the word light . 
For the king hated all witticisms , and punning especially . 
She looked angry still , because she knew that she was guilty , or , what was much the same , knew that HE thought so . 
There ! said the queen , I never made a jest , but I broke it in the making . 
I am the most unfortunate woman in the world ! She looked so rueful , that the king took her in his arms and they sat down to consult . 
Can you bear this ? said the king . 
No , I can't , said the queen . 
Well , what's to be done ? said the king . 
I'm sure I don't know , said the queen . 
But might you not try an apology ? To my old sister , I suppose you mean ? said the king . 
Yes , said the queen . 
Well , I don't mind , said the king . 
So he went the next morning to the house of the princess , and , making a very humble apology , begged her to undo the spell . 
But the princess declared , with a grave face , that she knew nothing at all about it . 
Her eyes , however , shone pink , which was a sign that she was happy . 
She advised the king and queen to have patience , and to mend their ways . 
The queen tried to comfort him . 
We will wait till she is older . 
She may then be able to suggest something herself . 
She will know at least how she feels , and explain things to us . 
But what if she should marry ? exclaimed the king , in sudden consternation at the idea . 
Well , what of that ? rejoined the queen . 
Just think ! If she were to have children ! In the course of a hundred years the air might be as full of floating children as of gossamers in autumn . 
That is no business of ours , replied the queen . 
Besides , by that time they will have learned to take care of themselves . 
A sigh was the king's only answer . 
He would have consulted the court physicians but he was afraid they would try experiments upon her . 
Meantime , notwithstanding awkward occurrences , and griefs that she brought upon her parents , the little princess laughed and grew not fat , but plump and tall . 
Nor , thoughtless as she was , had she committed anything worse than laughter at everybody and everything that came in her way . 
She never could be brought to see the serious side of anything . 
With one push of her foot , she would be floating in the air above his head or she would go dancing backwards and forwards and sideways , like a great butterfly . 
One day an awkward accident happened . 
The princess had come out upon the lawn with one of her attendants , who held her by the hand . 
Spying her father at the other side of the lawn , she snatched her hand from the maid's , and sped across to him . 
Now when she wanted to run alone , her custom was to catch up a stone in each hand , so that she might come down again after a bound . 
But whatever she only held in her hands retained its downward tendency . 
On this occasion she could see nothing to catch up but a huge toad , that was walking across the lawn as if he had a hundred years to do it in . 
Not knowing what disgust meant , for this was one of her peculiarities , she snatched up the toad and bounded away . 
Now it was no great peculiarity in the princess that , once she was set agoing , it always cost her time and trouble to check herself . 
On this occasion there was no time . 
She must kiss and she kissed the page . 
She did not mind it much for she had no shyness in her composition and she knew , besides , that she could not help it . 
So she only laughed , like a musical box . 
The poor page fared the worst . 
He tried to laugh , too , but the attempt resulted in such an odd contortion of countenance , as showed that there was no danger of his pluming himself on the kiss . 
As for the king , his dignity was greatly hurt , and he did not speak to the page for a whole month . 
I may here remark that it was very amusing to see her run , if her mode of progression could properly be called running . 
For first she would make a bound then , having alighted , she would run a few steps , and make another bound . 
Then she would laugh like the very spirit of fun only in her laugh there was something missing . 
What it was , I find myself unable to describe . 
I think it was a certain tone , depending upon the possibility of sorrow MORBIDEZZA , perhaps . 
After a long avoidance of the painful subject , the king and queen resolved to hold a council of three upon it and so they sent for the princess . 
In she came , sliding and flitting and gliding from one piece of furniture to another , and put herself at last in an armchair , in a sitting posture . 
Whether she could be said to sit , seeing she received no support from the seat of the chair , I do not pretend to determine . 
My dear child , said the king , you must be aware by this time that you are not exactly like other people . 
Oh , you dear funny papa ! I have got a nose , and two eyes , and all the rest . 
Now be serious , my dear , for once , said the queen . 
No , thank you , mamma I had rather not . 
Would you not like to be able to walk like other people ? said the king . 
No indeed , I should think not . 
You are such slow coaches ! How do you feel , my child ? he resumed , after a pause of discomfiture . 
Quite well , thank you . 
I mean , what do you feel like ? Like nothing at all , that I know of . 
You must feel like something . 
I feel like a princess with such a funny papa , and such a dear pet of a queen mamma ! Now really ! began the queen but the princess interrupted her . 
Oh Yes , she added , I remember . 
I have a curious feeling sometimes , as if I were the only person that had any sense in the whole world . 
The king picked her up easier than one does a down quilt , and replaced her in her former relation to the chair . 
The exact preposition expressing this relation I do not happen to know . 
Is there nothing you wish for ? resumed the king , who had learned by this time that it was useless to be angry with her . 
Oh , you dear papa ! yes , answered she . 
What is it , my darling ? I have been longing for it oh , such a time ! ever since last night . 
Tell me what it is . 
Will you promise to let me have it ? The king was on the point of saying Yes , but the wiser queen checked him with a single motion of her head . 
Tell me what it is first , said he . 
What is it ? Mind , I hold you to your promise . 
It is to be tied to the end of a string a very long string indeed , and be flown like a kite . 
Seeing nothing but talk could be got out of her , he rang the bell , and sent her away with two of her ladies in waiting . 
Now , queen , he said , turning to her Majesty , what IS to be done ? There is but one thing left , answered she . 
Let us consult the college of Metaphysicians . 
Bravo ! cried the king we will . 
Now at the head of this college were two very wise Chinese philosophers by name Hum Drum , and Kopy Keck . 
For them the king sent and straightway they came . 
The king laid stress upon the word , but failed to discover his own pun . 
The queen laughed but Hum Drum and Kopy Keck heard with humility and retired in silence . 
The consultation consisted chiefly in propounding and supporting , for the thousandth time , each his favourite theories . 
For the condition of the princess afforded delightful scope for the discussion of every question arising from the division of thought in fact , of all the Metaphysics of the Chinese Empire . 
But it is only justice to say that they did not altogether neglect the discussion of the practical question , what was to be done . 
Hum Drum was a Materialist , and Kopy Keck was a Spiritualist . 
The former was slow and sententious the latter was quick and flighty the latter had generally the first word the former the last . 
I reassert my former assertion , began Kopy Keck , with a plunge . 
There is not a fault in the princess , body or soul only they are wrong put together . 
Listen to me now , Hum Drum , and I will tell you in brief what I think . 
I won't hear you till I have done . 
At that decisive moment , when souls seek their appointed habitations , two eager souls met , struck , rebounded , lost their way , and arrived each at the wrong place . 
The soul of the princess was one of those , and she went far astray . 
She does not belong by rights to this world at all , but to some other planet , probably Mercury . 
Her proclivity to her true sphere destroys all the natural influence which this orb would otherwise possess over her corporeal frame . 
She cares for nothing here . 
There is no relation between her and this world . 
She must therefore be taught , by the sternest compulsion , to take an interest in the earth as the earth . 
She must begin with the Chinese dynasty and end with Japan . 
But first of all she must study geology , and especially the history of the extinct races of animals their natures , their habits , their loves , their hates , their revenges . 
She must Hold , h o o old ! roared Hum Drum . 
It is certainly my turn now . 
My rooted and insubvertible conviction is , that the causes of the anomalies evident in the princess's condition are strictly and solely physical . 
But that is only tantamount to acknowledging that they exist . 
From some cause or other , of no importance to our inquiry , the motion of her heart has been reversed . 
The offices of the auricles and the ventricles are subverted . 
The blood is sent forth by the veins , and returns by the arteries . 
Consequently it is running the wrong way through all her corporeal organism lungs and all . 
Let it be effected , if necessary , in a warm bath . 
When she is reduced to a state of perfect asphyxy , apply a ligature to the left ankle , drawing it as tight as the bone will bear . 
Apply , at the same moment , another of equal tension around the right wrist . 
By means of plates constructed for the purpose , place the other foot and hand under the receivers of two air pumps . 
Exhibit a pint of French brandy , and await the result . 
Which would presently arrive in the form of grim Death , said Kopy Keck . 
If it should , she would yet die in doing our duty , retorted Hum Drum . 
But their Majesties had too much tenderness for their volatile offspring to subject her to either of the schemes of the equally unscrupulous philosophers . 
Indeed , the most complete knowledge of the laws of nature would have been unserviceable in her case for it was impossible to classify her . 
She was a fifth imponderable body , sharing all the other properties of the ponderable . 
Try a Drop of Water . 
Perhaps the best thing for the princess would have been to fall in love . 
But how a princess who had no gravity could fall into anything is a difficulty perhaps THE difficulty . 
As for her own feelings on the subject , she did not even know that there was such a beehive of honey and stings to be fallen into . 
But now I come to mention another curious fact about her . 
The palace was built on the shores of the loveliest lake in the world and the princess loved this lake more than father or mother . 
Whether this was owing to the fact that water had been employed as the means of conveying the injury , I do not know . 
But it is certain that she could swim and dive like the duck that her old nurse said she was . 
The manner in which this alleviation of her misfortune was discovered was as follows . 
One summer evening , during the carnival of the country , she had been taken upon the lake by the king and queen , in the royal barge . 
They were accompanied by many of the courtiers in a fleet of little boats . 
With a burst of delighted laughter she disappeared in the lake . 
A cry of horror ascended from the boats . 
They had never seen the princess go down before . 
There she was , swimming like a swan . 
Nor would she come out for king or queen , chancellor or daughter . 
But at the same time she seemed more sedate than usual . 
Perhaps that was because a great pleasure spoils laughing . 
Summer and winter it was quite the same only she could not stay so long in the water when they had to break the ice to let her in . 
Indeed , when she happened to wake in the moonlight she could hardly resist the temptation . 
But there was the sad difficulty of getting into it . 
She had as great a dread of the air as some children have of the water . 
For the slightest gust of wind would blow her away and a gust might arise in the stillest moment . 
Oh ! if I had my gravity , thought she , contemplating the water , I would flash off this balcony like a long white sea bird , headlong into the darling wetness . 
Heigh ho ! This was the only consideration that made her wish to be like other people . 
Another reason for her being fond of the water was that in it alone she enjoyed any freedom . 
For she could not walk out without a cortege , consisting in part of a troop of light horse , for fear of the liberties which the wind might take with her . 
Of course horseback was out of the question . 
But she bade good by to all this ceremony when she got into the water . 
But the king had some vulgar prejudices against the experiment , and would not give his consent . 
Foiled in this , they yet agreed in another recommendation which , seeing that one imported his opinions from China and the other from Thibet , was very remarkable indeed . 
But how was this to be brought about ? Therein lay all the difficulty to meet which the philosophers were not wise enough . 
To make the princess cry was as impossible as to make her weigh . 
But it was all in vain . 
Yet not a tear would flow . 
She looked grave , and her laughing sounded uncommonly like screaming that was all . 
The good old tyrant , though he put on his best gold spectacles to look , could not discover the smallest cloud in the serene blue of her eyes . 
It must have been about this time that the son of a king , who lived a thousand miles from Lagobel set out to look for the daughter of a queen . 
He travelled far and wide , but as sure as he found a princess , he found some fault in her . 
Of course he could not marry a mere woman , however beautiful and there was no princess to be found worthy of him . 
Whether the prince was so near perfection that he had a right to demand perfection itself , I cannot pretend to say . 
All I know is , that he was a fine , handsome , brave , generous , well bred , and well behaved youth , as all princes are . 
In his wanderings he had come across some reports about our princess but as everybody said she was bewitched , he never dreamed that she could bewitch him . 
Of course he made no further inquiries about her . 
One day he lost sight of his retinue in a great forest . 
These forests are very useful in delivering princes from their courtiers , like a sieve that keeps back the bran . 
Then the princes get away to follow their fortunes . 
In this way they have the advantage of the princesses , who are forced to marry before they have had a bit of fun . 
I wish our princesses got lost in a forest sometimes . 
Next he came upon signs of human neighbourhood but by this time it was getting late , and there was nobody in the fields to direct him . 
After travelling for another hour , his horse , quite worn out with long labour and lack of food , fell , and was unable to rise again . 
So he continued his journey on foot . 
At length he entered another wood not a wild forest , but a civilized wood , through which a footpath led him to the side of a lake . 
Along this path the prince pursued his way through the gathering darkness . 
Suddenly he paused , and listened . 
Strange sounds came across the water . 
It was , in fact , the princess laughing . 
Looking over the lake , he saw something white in the water and , in an instant , he had torn off his tunic , kicked off his sandals , and plunged in . 
He soon reached the white object , and found that it was a woman . 
But , her gravitation ceasing the moment she left the water , away she went up into the air , scolding and screaming . 
You naughty , naughty , NAUGHTY , NAUGHTY man ! she cried . 
No one had ever succeeded in putting her into a passion before . 
When the prince saw her ascend , he thought he must have been bewitched , and have mistaken a great swan for a lady . 
But the princess caught hold of the topmost cone upon a lofty fir . 
This came off but she caught at another and , in fact , stopped herself by gathering cones , dropping them as the stalks gave way . 
The prince , meantime , stood in the water , staring , and forgetting to get out . 
But the princess disappearing , he scrambled on shore , and went in the direction of the tree . 
There he found her climbing down one of the branches towards the stem . 
Oh no , you won't ! returned the prince . 
Yes , I will , she persisted . 
What business had you to pull me down out of the water , and throw me to the bottom of the air ? I never did you any harm . 
I did not mean to hurt you . 
I don't believe you have any brains and that is a worse loss than your wretched gravity . 
The prince now saw that he had come upon the bewitched princess , and had already offended her . 
Put you up where , you beauty ? asked the prince . 
No prince , however , would judge of a princess by weight . 
The loveliness of her foot he would hardly estimate by the depth of the impression it could make in mud . 
Put you up where , you beauty ? asked the prince . 
In the water , you stupid ! answered the princess . 
Come , then , said the prince . 
You took me out put me in again . 
Very well , said the prince and , catching her up in his arms , he sprang with her from the rock . 
The princess had just time to give one delighted shriek of laughter before the water closed over them . 
The instant they reached the surface How do you like falling in ? said the prince . 
After some effort the princess panted out , Is that what you call FALLING IN ? Yes , answered the prince , I should think it a very tolerable specimen . 
It seemed to me like going up , rejoined she . 
My feeling was certainly one of elevation too , the prince conceded . 
The princess did not appear to understand him , for she retorted his question How do YOU like falling in ? said the princess . 
Beyond everything , answered he for I have fallen in with the only perfect creature I ever saw . 
No more of that I am tired of it , said the princess . 
Perhaps she shared her father's aversion to punning . 
Don't you like falling in then ? said the prince . 
It is the most delightful fun I ever had in my life , answered she . 
I wish I could learn . 
To think I am the only person in my father's kingdom that can't fall ! Here the poor princess looked almost sad . 
I shall be most happy to fall in with you any time you like , said the prince , devotedly . 
Perhaps it would not be proper . 
At all events , as we have fallen in , let us have a swim together . 
With all my heart , responded the prince . 
And away they went , swimming , and diving , and floating , until at last they heard cries along the shore , and saw lights glancing in all directions . 
It was now quite late , and there was no moon . 
I must go home , said the princess . 
I am very sorry , for this is delightful . 
So am I , returned the prince . 
But I am glad I haven't a home to go to at least , I don't exactly know where it is . 
I wish I hadn't one either , rejoined the princess it is so stupid ! I have a great mind , she continued , to play them all a trick . 
Will you be in the lake to morrow night ? the prince ventured to ask . 
To be sure I will . 
Perhaps , was the princess's somewhat strange answer . 
But the prince was intelligent enough not to press her further and merely whispered , as he gave her the parting lift , Don't tell . 
The only answer the princess returned was a roguish look . 
She was already a yard above his head . 
The look seemed to say , Never fear . 
It is too good fun to spoil that way . 
He turned , almost expecting to see her still by his side . 
But he was alone in the water . 
So he swam away quietly , and watched the lights roving about the shore for hours after the princess was safe in her chamber . 
As soon as they disappeared , he landed in search of his tunic and sword , and , after some trouble , found them again . 
Then he made the best of his way round the lake to the other side . 
It was a sort of cave in the rock , where he provided himself a bed of withered leaves , and lay down too tired for hunger to keep him awake . 
All night long he dreamed that he was swimming with the princess . 
And having plenty to keep him alive for the present , he would not think of wants not yet in existence . 
Whenever Care intruded , this prince always bowed him out in the most princely manner . 
It was a very bright day , and soon the prince , burned up with the heat , began to long for the cold water and the cool princess . 
But he had to endure till twilight for the boats had provisions on board , and it was not till the sun went down that the gay party began to vanish . 
Boat after boat drew away to the shore , following that of the king and queen , till only one , apparently the princess's own boat , remained . 
But she did not want to go home even yet , and the prince thought he saw her order the boat to the shore without her . 
At all events , it rowed away and now , of all the radiant company , only one white speck remained . 
Then the prince began to sing . 
And this is what he sung Lady fair , Swan white , Lift thine eyes , Banish night By the might Of thine eyes . 
Snowy arms , Oars of snow , Oar her hither , Plashing low . 
Soft and slow , Oar her hither . 
Stream behind her O'er the lake , Radiant whiteness ! In her wake Following , following for her sake . 
Radiant whiteness ! Cling about her , Waters blue Part not from her , But renew Cold and true Kisses round her . 
Lap me round , Waters sad , That have left her . 
Make me glad , For ye had Kissed her ere ye left her . 
Before he had finished his song , the princess was just under the place where he sat , and looking up to find him . 
Her ears had led her truly . 
Would you like a fall , princess ? said the prince , looking down . 
Ah ! there you are ! Yes , if you please , prince , said the princess , looking up . 
How do you know I am a prince , princess ? said the prince . 
Because you are a very nice young man , prince , said the princess . 
Come up then , princess . 
The prince took off his scarf , then his sword belt , then his tunic , and tied them all together , and let them down . 
But the line was far too short . 
He unwound his turban , and added it to the rest , when it was all but long enough and his purse completed it . 
The princess just managed to lay hold of the knot of money , and was beside him in a moment . 
This rock was much higher than the other , and the splash and the dive were tremendous . 
The princess was in ecstasies of delight , and their swim was delicious . 
he often fancied that he was swimming in the sky instead of the lake . 
But when he talked about being in heaven , the princess laughed at him dreadfully . 
When the moon came , she brought them fresh pleasure . 
Everything looked strange and new in her light , with an old , withered , yet unfading newness . 
The prince soon found out that while in the water the princess was very like other people . 
And besides this , she was not so forward in her questions or pert in her replies at sea as on shore . 
Neither did she laugh so much and when she did laugh , it was more gently . 
She seemed altogether more modest and maidenly in the water than out of it . 
After a while she began to look puzzled , as if she were trying to understand what he meant , but could not revealing a notion that he meant something . 
Hiss ! The princess's pleasure in the lake had grown to a passion , and she could scarcely bear to be out of it for an hour . 
Imagine then her consternation , when , diving with the prince one night , a sudden suspicion seized her that the lake was not so deep as it used to be . 
The prince could not imagine what had happened . 
She shot to the surface , and , without a word , swam at full speed towards the higher side of the lake . 
He followed , begging to know if she was ill , or what was the matter . 
She never turned her head , or took the smallest notice of his question . 
Arrived at the shore , she coasted the rocks with minute inspection . 
But she was not able to come to a conclusion , for the moon was very small , and so she could not see well . 
She turned therefore and swam home , without saying a word to explain her conduct to the prince , of whose presence she seemed no longer conscious . 
He withdrew to his cave , in great perplexity and distress . 
Next day she made many observations , which , alas ! strengthened her fears . 
She saw that the banks were too dry and that the grass on the shore , and the trailing plants on the rocks , were withering away . 
The poor princess nearly went out of the little mind she had . 
It was awful to her to see the lake , which she loved more than any living thing , lie dying before her eyes . 
It sank away , slowly vanishing . 
The tops of rocks that had never been seen till now , began to appear far down in the clear water . 
Before long they were dry in the sun . 
And how hot the sun would be without any lake ! She could not bear to swim in it any more , and began to pine away . 
Her life seemed bound up with it and ever as the lake sank , she pined . 
People said she would not live an hour after the lake was gone . 
A Proclamation was made to all the kingdom , that whosoever should discover the cause of the lake's decrease , would be rewarded after a princely fashion . 
Hum Drum and Kopy Keck applied themselves to their physics and metaphysics but in vain . 
Not even they could suggest a cause . 
Now the fact was that the old princess was at the root of the mischief . 
But , said she , I will soon set all right . 
The king and the people shall die of thirst their brains shall boil and frizzle in their skulls before I will lose my revenge . 
And she laughed a ferocious laugh , that made the hairs on the back of her black cat stand erect with terror . 
Then she went to an old chest in the room , and opening it , took out what looked like a piece of dried seaweed . 
This she threw into a tub of water . 
Then she threw some powder into the water , and stirred it with her bare arm , muttering over it words of hideous sound , and yet more hideous import . 
Then she set the tub aside , and took from the chest a huge bunch of a hundred rusty keys , that clattered in her shaking hands . 
Then she sat down and proceeded to oil them all . 
But the witch did not look round . 
She started but with joy and seeing the head resting on her shoulder , drew it towards her and kissed it . 
Then she drew it all out of the tub , and wound it round her body . 
It was one of those dreadful creatures which few have ever beheld the White Snakes of Darkness . 
She locked this also behind her , and descended a few more steps . 
If any one had followed the witch princess , he would have heard her unlock exactly one hundred doors , and descend a few steps after unlocking each . 
When she had unlocked the last , she entered a vast cave , the roof of which was supported by huge natural pillars of rock . 
Now this roof was the under side of the bottom of the lake . 
She then untwined the snake from her body , and held it by the tail high above her . 
The hideous creature stretched up its head towards the roof of the cavern , which it was just able to reach . 
It then began to move its head backwards and forwards , with a slow oscillating motion , as if looking for something . 
And still it kept slowly oscillating . 
Round and round the cavern they went , ever lessening the circuit , till at last the snake made a sudden dart , and clung to the roof with its mouth . 
That's right , my beauty ! cried the princess drain it dry . 
Then she began to knit and mutter awful words . 
Seven days and seven nights they remained thus when suddenly the serpent dropped from the roof as if exhausted , and shrivelled up till it was again like a piece of dried seaweed . 
The witch started to her feet , picked it up , put it in her pocket , and looked up at the roof . 
One drop of water was trembling on the spot where the snake had been sucking . 
As soon as she saw that , she turned and fled , followed by her cat . 
Then she sat down on the floor ready to faint , but listening with malicious delight to the rushing of the water , which she could hear distinctly through all the hundred doors . 
But this was not enough . 
Now that she had tasted revenge , she lost her patience . 
Without further measures , the lake would be too long in disappearing . 
Before morning she had made the entire circuit of the lake , muttering fearful words as she crossed every stream , and casting into it some of the water out of her bottle . 
When she had finished the circuit she muttered yet again , and flung a handful of water towards the moon . 
Thereupon every spring in the country ceased to throb and bubble , dying away like the pulse of a dying man . 
The next day there was no sound of falling water to be heard along the borders of the lake . 
The very courses were dry and the mountains showed no silvery streaks down their dark sides . 
And not alone had the fountains of mother Earth ceased to flow for all the babies throughout the country were crying dreadfully only without tears . 
Where Is the Prince ? Never since the night when the princess left him so abruptly had the prince had a single interview with her . 
He had seen her once or twice in the lake but as far as he could discover , she had not been in it any more at night . 
When at length he discovered the change that was taking place in the level of the water , he was in great alarm and perplexity . 
He could not tell whether the lake was dying because the lady had forsaken it or whether the lady would not come because the lake had begun to sink . 
But he resolved to know so much at least . 
He disguised himself , and , going to the palace , requested to see the lord chamberlain . 
His appearance at once gained his request and the lord chamberlain , being a man of some insight , perceived that there was more in the prince's solicitation than met the ear . 
He felt likewise that no one could tell whence a solution of the present difficulties might arise . 
So he granted the prince's prayer to be made shoeblack to the princess . 
It was rather cunning in the prince to request such an easy post , for the princess could not possibly soil as many shoes as other princesses . 
He soon learned all that could be told about the princess . 
For the princess kept her room , with the curtains drawn to shut out the dying lake , But she could not shut it out of her mind for a moment . 
It haunted her imagination so that she felt as if the lake were her soul , drying up within her , first to mud , then to madness and death . 
She thus brooded over the change , with all its dreadful accompaniments , till she was nearly distracted . 
As for the prince , she had forgotten him . 
However much she had enjoyed his company in the water , she did not care for him without it . 
But she seemed to have forgotten her father and mother too . 
The lake went on sinking . 
Small slimy spots began to appear , which glittered steadily amidst the changeful shine of the water . 
These grew to broad patches of mud , which widened and spread , with rocks here and there , and floundering fishes and crawling eels swarming . 
The people went everywhere catching these , and looking for anything that might have dropped from the royal boats . 
At length the lake was all but gone , only a few of the deepest pools remaining unexhausted . 
It happened one day that a party of youngsters found themselves on the brink of one of these pools in the very centre of the lake . 
it was a rocky basin of considerable depth . 
Looking in , they saw at the bottom something that shone yellow in the sun . 
A little boy jumped in and dived for it . 
It was a plate of gold covered with writing . 
They carried it to the king . 
On one side of it stood these words Death alone from death can save . 
Love is death , and so is brave Love can fill the deepest grave . 
Love loves on beneath the wave . 
Now this was enigmatical enough to the king and courtiers . 
But the reverse of the plate explained it a little . 
Its writing amounted to this If the lake should disappear , they must find the hole through which the water ran . 
But it would be useless to try to stop it by any ordinary means . 
There was but one effectual mode . 
The body of a living man could alone stanch the flow . 
The man must give himself of his own will and the lake must take his life as it filled . 
Otherwise the offering would be of no avail . 
If the nation could not provide one hero , it was time it should perish . 
This was a very disheartening revelation to the king not that he was unwilling to sacrifice a subject , but that he was hopeless of finding a man willing to sacrifice himself . 
Therefore the king caused the contents of the wonderful plate of gold to be published throughout the country . 
No one , however , came forward . 
And life will be as pleasant to her as ever , for she will soon forget me . 
And there will be so much more beauty and happiness in the world ! To be sure , I shall not see it . 
How lovely the lake will be in the moonlight , with that glorious creature sporting in it like a wild goddess ! It is rather hard to be drowned by inches , though . 
Let me see that will be seventy inches of me to drown . 
It will be no death . 
At least , I shall not feel it . 
And to see the lake filling for the beauty again ! All right ! I am ready . 
He kissed the princess's boot , laid it down , and hurried to the king's apartment . 
But feeling , as he went , that anything sentimental would be disagreeable , he resolved to carry off the whole affair with nonchalance . 
So he knocked at the door of the king's counting house , where it was all but a capital crime to disturb him . 
When the king heard the knock he started up , and opened the door in a rage . 
Seeing only the shoeblack , he drew his sword . 
This , I am sorry to say , was his usual mode of asserting his regality when he thought his dignity was in danger . 
But the prince was not in the least alarmed . 
Please your Majesty , I'm your butler , said he . 
My butler ! you lying rascal ! What do you mean ? I mean , I will cork your big bottle . 
Is the fellow mad ? bawled the king , raising the point of his sword . 
I will put a stopper plug what you call it , in your leaky lake , grand monarch , said the prince . 
Very well , said the king . 
Would you like to run and see your parents before you make your experiment ? No , thank you , said the prince . 
Then we will go and look for the hole at once , said his Majesty , and proceeded to call some attendants . 
Stop , please your Majesty I have a condition to make , interposed the prince . 
What ! exclaimed the king , a condition ! and with me ! How dare you ? As you please , returned the prince , coolly . 
I wish your Majesty a good morning . 
You wretch ! I will have you put in a sack , and stuck in the hole . 
Very well , your Majesty , replied the prince , becoming a little more respectful , lest the wrath of the king should deprive him of the pleasure of dying for the princess . 
But what good will that do your Majesty ? Please to remember that the oracle says the victim must offer himself . 
Well , you have offered yourself , retorted the king . 
Yes , upon one condition . 
Condition again ! roared the king , once more drawing his sword . 
Begone ! Somebody else will be glad enough to take the honour off your shoulders . 
Your Majesty knows it will not be easy to get another to take my place . 
Well , what is your condition ? growled the king , feeling that the prince was right . 
As soon as the water is up to my eyes , she may go and be happy , and forget her poor shoeblack . 
Here the prince's voice faltered , and he very nearly grew sentimental , in spite of his resolution . 
Why didn't you tell me before what your condition was ? Such a fuss about nothing ! exclaimed the king . 
Do you grant it ? persisted the prince . 
Of course I do , replied the king . 
Go and have some dinner , then , while I set my people to find the place . 
The king ordered out his guards , and gave directions to the officers to find the hole in the lake at once . 
So the bed of the lake was marked out in divisions and thoroughly examined , and in an hour or so the hole was discovered . 
It was in the middle of a stone , near the centre of the lake , in the very pool where the golden plate had been found . 
It was a three cornered hole of no great size . 
There was water all round the stone , but very little was flowing through the hole . 
This Is Very Kind of You . 
The prince went to dress for the occasion , for he was resolved to die like a prince . 
She did not care who the man was that was nothing to her . 
The hole wanted stopping and if only a man would do , why , take one . 
In an hour or two more everything was ready . 
Her maid dressed her in haste , and they carried her to the side of the lake . 
When she saw it she shrieked , and covered her face with her hands . 
They bore her across to the stone where they had already placed a little boat for her . 
The water was not deep enough to float it , but they hoped it would be , before long . 
They laid her on cushions , placed in the boat wines and fruits and other nice things , and stretched a canopy over all . 
In a few minutes the prince appeared . 
The princess recognized him at once , but did not think it worth while to acknowledge him . 
Here I am , said the prince . 
They told me it was a shoeblack , said the princess . 
So I am , said the prince . 
I blacked your little boots three times a day , because they were all I could get of you . 
The courtiers did not resent his bluntness , except by saying to each other that he was taking it out in impudence . 
But how was he to be put in ? The golden plate contained no instructions on this point . 
The prince looked at the hole , and saw but one way . 
He put both his legs into it , sitting on the stone , and , stooping forward , covered the corner that remained open with his two hands . 
In this uncomfortable position he resolved to abide his fate , and turning to the people , said , Now you can go . 
The king had already gone home to dinner . 
Now you can go , repeated the princess after him , like a parrot . 
The people obeyed her and went . 
Presently a little wave flowed over the stone , and wetted one of the prince's knees . 
But he did not mind it much . 
Lady , keep thy world's delight Keep the waters in thy sight . 
It makes it less tedious , said the princess . 
But the prince was too much overcome to sing any more , and a long pause followed . 
This is very kind of you , prince , said the princess at last , quite coolly , as she lay in the boat with her eyes shut . 
I am sorry I can't return the compliment , thought the prince but you are worth dying for , after all . 
Again a wavelet , and another , and another flowed over the stone , and wetted both the prince's knees but he did not speak or move . 
Two three four hours passed in this way , the princess apparently asleep , and the prince very patient . 
But he was much disappointed in his position , for he had none of the consolation he had hoped for . 
At last he could bear it no longer . 
But at the moment up started the princess , crying , I'm afloat ! I'm afloat ! And the little boat bumped against the stone . 
Princess ! repeated the prince , encouraged by seeing her wide awake and looking eagerly at the water . 
Well ? said she , without looking round . 
Your papa promised that you should look at me , and you haven't looked at me once . 
Did he ? Then I suppose I must . 
But I am so sleepy ! Sleep then , darling , and don't mind me , said the poor prince . 
Really , you are very good , replied the princess . 
I think I will go to sleep again . 
Just give me a glass of wine and a biscuit first , said the prince , very humbly . 
With all my heart , said the princess , and gaped as she said it . 
She got the wine and the biscuit , however , and leaning over the side of the boat towards him , was compelled to look at him . 
Why , prince , she said , you don't look well ! Are you sure you don't mind it ? Not a bit , answered he , feeling very faint in deed . 
Only I shall die before it is of any use to you , unless I have something to eat . 
There , then , said she , holding out the wine to him . 
Ah ! you must feed me . 
I dare not move my hands . 
The water would run away directly . 
Good gracious ! said the princess and she began at once to feed him with bits of biscuit and sips of wine . 
As she fed him , he contrived to kiss the tips of her fingers now and then . 
She did not seem to mind it , one way or the other . 
But the prince felt better . 
Now for your own sake , princess , said he , I cannot let you go to sleep . 
You must sit and look at me , else I shall not be able to keep up . 
The sun went down , and the moon rose , and , gush after gush , the waters were rising up the prince's body . 
They were up to his waist now . 
Why can't we go and have a swim ? said the princess . 
There seems to be water enough Just about here . 
I shall never swim more , said the prince . 
Oh , I forgot , said the princess , and was silent . 
So the water grew and grew , and rose up and up on the prince . 
And the princess sat and looked at him . 
She fed him now and then . 
The waters rose and rose . 
The moon rose likewise higher and higher , and shone full on the face of the dying prince . 
The water was up to his neck . 
Will you kiss me , princess ? said he , feebly . 
The nonchalance was all gone now . 
Yes , I will , answered the princess , and kissed him with a long , sweet , cold kiss . 
Now , said he , with a sigh of content , I die happy . 
He did not speak again . 
The princess gave him some wine for the last time he was past eating . 
Then she sat down again , and looked at him . 
The water rose and rose . 
It touched his lower lip . 
It touched between his lips . 
He shut them hard to keep it out . 
The princess began to feel strange . 
It touched his upper lip . 
He breathed through his nostrils . 
Her eyes looked scared , and shone strange in the moonlight . 
His head fell back the water closed over it , and the bubbles of his last breath bubbled up through the water . 
The princess gave a shriek , and sprang into the lake . 
She laid hold first of one leg , and then of the other , and pulled and tugged , but she could not move either . 
She stopped to take breath , and that made her think that HE could not get any breath . 
She got hold of him , and held his head above the water , which was possible now his hands were no longer on the hole . 
But it was of no use , for he was past breathing . 
Love and water brought back all her strength . 
She got under the water , and pulled and pulled with her whole might , till at last she got one leg out . 
How she got him into the boat she never could tell but when she did , she fainted away . 
Coming to herself , she seized the oars , kept herself steady as best she could , and rowed and rowed , though she had never rowed before . 
Round rocks , and over shallows , and through mud she rowed , till she got to the landing stairs of the palace . 
By this time her people were on the shore , for they had heard her shriek . 
She made them carry the prince to her own room , and lay him in her bed , and light a fire , and send for the doctors . 
But the lake , your Highness ! said the chamberlain , who , roused by the noise , came in , in his nightcap . 
Go and drown yourself in it ! she said . 
This was the last rudeness of which the princess was ever guilty and one must allow that she had good cause to feel provoked with the lord chamberlain . 
Had it been the king himself , he would have fared no better . 
But both he and the queen were fast asleep . 
And the chamberlain went back to his bed . 
Somehow , the doctors never came . 
So the princess and her old nurse were left with the prince . 
But the old nurse was a wise woman , and knew what to do . 
They tried everything for a long time without success . 
The princess was nearly distracted between hope and fear , but she tried on and on , one thing after another , and everything over and over again . 
At last , when they had all but given it up , just as the sun rose , the prince opened his eyes . 
Look at the Rain ! The princess burst into a passion of tears , and fell on the floor . 
There she lay for an hour , and her tears never ceased . 
All the pent up crying of her life was spent now . 
And a rain came on , such as had never been seen in that country . 
The sun shone all the time , and the great drops , which fell straight to the earth , shone likewise . 
The palace was in the heart of a rainbow . 
It was a rain of rubies , and sapphires , and emeralds , and topazes . 
The torrents poured from the mountains like molten gold and if it had not been for its subterraneous outlet , the lake would have overflowed and inundated the country . 
It was full from shore to shore . 
But the princess did not heed the lake . 
She lay on the floor and wept , and this rain within doors was far more wonderful than the rain out of doors . 
For when it abated a little , and she proceeded to rise , she found , to her astonishment , that she could not . 
At length , after many efforts , she succeeded in getting upon her feet . 
But she tumbled down again directly . 
I consider it very unpleasant . 
I feel as if I should be crushed to pieces . 
Hurrah ! cried the prince from the bed . 
If you've come round , princess , so have I. How's the lake ? Brimful , answered the nurse . 
That we are indeed ! answered the princess , sobbing . 
And there was rejoicing all over the country that rainy day . 
Even the babies forgot their past troubles , and danced and crowed amazingly . 
And the king told stories , and the queen listened to them . 
And he divided the money in his box , and she the honey in her pot , among all the children . 
And there was such jubilation as was never heard of before . 
Of course the prince and princess were betrothed at once . 
But the princess had to learn to walk , before they could be married with any propriety . 
And this was not so easy at her time of life , for she could walk no more than a baby . 
She was always falling down and hurting herself . 
Is this the gravity you used to make so much of ? said she one day to the prince , as he raised her from the floor . 
For my part , I was a great deal more comfortable without it . 
No , no , that's not it . 
This is it , replied the prince , as he took her up , and carried her about like a baby , kissing her all the time . 
That's better , said she . 
I don't mind that so much . 
And she smiled the sweetest , loveliest smile in the prince's face . 
And she gave him one little kiss in return for all his and he thought them overpaid , for he was beside himself with delight . 
I fear she complained of her gravity more than once after this , notwithstanding . 
It was a long time before she got reconciled to walking . 
But the pain of learning it was quite counterbalanced by two things , either of which would have been sufficient consolation . 
The first was , that the prince himself was her teacher and the second , that she could tumble into the lake as often as she pleased . 
Still , she preferred to have the prince jump in with her and the splash they made before was nothing to the splash they made now . 
The lake never sank again . 
In process of time , it wore the roof of the cavern quite through , and was twice as deep as before . 
The only revenge the princess took upon her aunt was to tread pretty hard on her gouty toe the next time she saw her . 
There she lies to this day . 
